I h ' - \ • March 6, 1980 Vol.ume 109,· No. 17 • Polish Defector Interviewed: \ Brothers U·nife Here by MATT KAYNE to soeak at student organized pro-Polish government rallies. The 1980Winter Olympics are When he shed his adolescence now history but the memories .of and grew into manhood, V oldick the Games will live long in the - realized wi;J.at he felt many hearts of all. You can't forget Polish citizens realized-the fact the American Hockey Team's that he was not happy living in a miraculous victory over the Communist nation. USSR en route to a gold medal, In 1972, during his first Eric Heiden's unheard of five Olympics, he had the chance to gold medals for speedskating, free himself. Feeling too young· and chants of \U-S in the to make the move, Voldick_ streets of Lake Placid ac- postponed his defection for be companied by a strikingly novel knew he. would have another sense of patriotismdisplayed by chance at it. In 1976 however, almost all Americans; a spirit the setting -was q!Jite different. last seen in the WW II area. Voldick had -not spoken to his The , highly spirited at- parents about the possibility of mosphere of the peace time. defecting in 19.72; in 1976, Olympic Games was most however, he did. as-suredly not confined to· Lake As he claims, \it was under Placid itself. ·The enthusiastic the .strong urging of my parents overtones -of the entire . two that I eventually had enough weeks of competition per- fortitude to accomplish the mea ted every corner of the dream to be free. Were it not for globe. them, I would not be here today_ Union College, too, was My mother cried to me the night touched by the Olympic Spirit. before I was to embark on my Prior to the acutal Winter -second Olympic jouroey. 'Go,' Olympic~, the Polish Olympic she said. 'You deserve freedom. Ice Hockey Team (P.O.I.H. T.) Don't worry about your aging was in town to defend its honor parents. We will face any against the Union College problems that will arise.' \ Skating Dutchmen. For all who So Voldick defected. He left. witnessed the event, the more· He left behind two parents and a than···i:rnpr-es-sive-- 9-1 Polish-- -.younger- brother · an.d sister. victory was outweighed by the There are strkt penalties for spirit and enthusiasm displayed the families of those who defect. on the ice and in the stands. \We the team, were told that A heartwarming sidelight of - should we defect our families the P.O.I.H.T.'s visit would pay the price. My mother Achilles Rink was the long warned me. But she also awaited reunion betw_.een warned me to grasp opportunity two Polish-horn brothers, when it knocKs on your door. 'I Voldick and Leszeck Jachna; am old,' she ~aid. 'You have a the latter is a current member full life ahead.' So, I went.\ of the . Polish team. The two Voldick knew that his younger brothers have not seen each· brother, Leszeck, would be other .. in four years, a direct spared any agony for he was result of V oldick' s choice to already showing signs of being defect to Canada where he a good hockey player. His. presently resides. younger sister, Anna, was VoldiCk, 28, was on the roster beginning to show promise in of the P.O.I.H.T. when it played the field of figure skating. His in )'he 1972 and 1976 Olympic parents, unlike Leszeck and Games. In 1976, however, he Anna, as he said; \were of no m~de the decision to defect use to the government. They, I whtch changed the entire course felt sure, would be targets -of of his life. He and his younger harassment and persecution.\ brother and sister were born Although he did not explicitly and raised in the small town of state the cause of his oarents' Nowy Targ in Poland. As a death, Voldick mentioned youngster and an adolescent, hesitantly that his parents were Voldick was an ardent \no longer here.\ Being a nationalist, even going so far as painful subject; 'the point was not pushed, however, it is en- tirely possible his parents may have died due to natural causes. . After this initial discussion, Voldick and I spoke at length ..... about many phases .of his life, ~ his feelings for his mother ... country, and the actual goings ~ on inside of Poland. Initially OW' m talk centered around . hockey a. hi~favorite sport, and the much ~ talked about hockey program in o Poland. ~ lt was quite natural for us to a. · talk of hockey. Voldick was a right wing on the 1972 P.O.I.H.T. which had finished a close fourth to the gold medal-not a Preside_nt John S. Morris bad accomplishment con- sidering the comparative sizes of the other nations involved. Hockey was his life, he said, for he was born to play it. His father had been a hockey player ·and his mother a figure skater. Of his siblings, Leszeck was a budding hockey player and . Anna was beginning to mature into a figure skater. Of all the questions I would want to ask of a native-born citizen of a Soviet satellite ·country is the much talked about·· distinction between Continued on page 4 Morris: On ~hanges by PAUL FEINSOT President John S. Morris discussed his administrative changes in a brief interview on Tuesday. Two weeks ago in a letter released to the campus community the President an~ nounced that he would De replacing both the Dean of Faculty and Provost positions with an Academic Vice President. The President perceives 'this ~hange as a way of terminating the diffusion resulting from the separate pcsitions of authority. The position which Mr. Morr.is held at Colgate was similar to what he has in mind, and he added that at Colgate it was not unclear who the chief academic officer was. He also mentioned that the viee president may want to divide respOnsibilities under him in various ways; but this will have to be decided after the selection. The an- nouncement of the search conunittee will be made later this week. Energy Munagers President Morris commented that the forthcoming ap- pointment is in direct relation to his belief that the college needs to look carefully at its curriculum at this time. He related that we must strive to develop an attitude towards education that suits this day and age. The prime responsibility of the new vice president will be to involve himself or herself in this task . by EDWARD ALBRO The Union College Energy Conser-Vation Task Force, the operative arnr' of Union's energy conservation com- mitment, has initiated the search for volunteers to act as . \Energy Managers.'' These positions will have respon- sibility to watch over the use of energy in fraternities, sororities, dormitories, or sections of dormitories. Persons who sign up at the circulation · desk of Shaffer Library will be giving a listing ·Of energy in- formation and conservation advice and will be assigned the name of a Task Force member to contact about problems, questions or suggestions. Director of· Campus Operations Jack Hill released a list of guidelines upon which the program will be based. They are as follows: 1. Shut down al! electric equipment when not in use. Do not leave electrically powered office equipment; such as copiers, \on\ all day. Turn off electric typewriters when not in use. :, 2. Close all ctrapes and:Oor venetian blinds when leaving the office or classroom at' the end of the day so that they remain closed at night and over weekends. 3. Turrt off electric lights in occupied areas where windows give adequate natural light for the task being performed. When electric lights must all be turned on due to insufficient natural light (and the room is not benefitting from the \solar heat gain\ of the sun) all shades, drapes, and blinds should be closed. 4. At all times turn off electric lights when leaving an empty room. 5. Make certain that fur· nishings, drapes, books, papers, etc., do not obstruct flow of air into and from heating units. 6. All exterior doors and windows should be in a closed position during the heating session. If storm sashes are installed on windows, they should be in a closed position during the heating season. 7. All thermostats should be set at 68 degrees during the period the space is occupied. At night and over the weekend, when the space is not occupied, the thermostats should be set at 62 degrees. -- 8. Use exhaust fans in science laboratories, shops, kitchens, etc., only when necessary. 9. Designate a minimal number of rooms that will be open for study or other pur- poses. 10. Valves on water faucets, shower heads, fountains, etc., shoulc be closed completely after use. The Maintenance DDepartment should be notified if water continues to flow. 11. Domestic hot water temperature should not exceed 120 degrees except in kitchens and in the Health Center. 12. Electric space heaters should not be used except in areas where 68 degree tem- perature cannot be maintained otherwise. · The institution of Energy Managers, in concordance with such operational changes as reduced lighting levels and thermostat settings and the installation of flourescent lights and equipment time clocks, is expected to lead to a 15-20 percent decrease in the College's energy costs. In ad- dition, Hill announced that from now on Security officers would be required to tour campus on foot rather than by car during the daylight hours. On another subject, the President stated that he found the letter written to the New York Times, by students Laurie Brecker and Lisa Katz (see letters page), to be a good letter in response to the publicity which. Harvard and stanford have recently received in regards to liberal learning programs instituted by those universities. The President sees Union's \liberal learning\ curriculum as a model program. He conceded, however, tllat any college that is not Harvard, Stanford, or Yale is not going to get the same kind of national recognition. The President also related that he would not make any decisions c<mcerning the future of Union Arts until after the search committee has chosen a new chairman. Mr. Morris recognizes the need for balance in this department; not to make any one discipline stronger than the other. He said that we are not now in a situation of growth and that it would be impractical and very difficult to make any great cbanges in the curriculum. The President believes that many of the problems the college faces today are related to remaining as we are. In the Arts, we must work within the bounds we have, said the President. There is a good nucleus of faculty and the new chairperson should be responsible for pulling them together in order to increase the quality of the program.

. . Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, March 6, 1980 Guest Editorial: Card Course Comedy by BRAD KUSHNER When Tim M.'s alarm clock went off at the ungodly hour of 6 a.m., he somehoW mustered. the strength to rom:;e himself and dress. It was Monday morning, he kept reminding himself, ·and pre-registration for spring term courses would begin today. Although the course listings would not be available to students until9a.m., Tim knew that the Liberal Learning geology course he wanted would be in high demand. Many students would be going to the geology office as soon as it opened to sign up for the most popular card course at Union. By heading up there at 6 a.m., he thought he could be one of the first in line. But by the time he got there at 6:15, there were over fifty students already waiting for the 25 cards that were available. A n·ew LL course called, ''Leonardo: Artist and Engineer'' was announced in the course listing that morning. By noon, all the cards had been taken. Most students didri. 't get their course listing and didn't hear about this promising new transdiscipUna;ry course until it was already closed out. \Dilemmas of Physical Resources\ is a favorite \F\-category course in the spring, and many seniors wait until spring term to satisfy this liberal-learning requirement. The result: A seniority-based preference system was instituted, and underClassmen were unable to obtain cards this year. When I first considered transferring to Union three years ago, I was most impressed by the non-competitive attitude that was expressed by the students I talked with. Most students at Union are willing to be cooperative w.ith one another toward furthering their understanding. Then why is it that the cooperative effort becomes viciously competitive around preregistration? 1) VERY FEW STUDENTS KNOW WHAT COURSES ARE AVAILABLE UNTIL AFTER THE CARDS ARE GONE. The course listing is available to students at 9 a.m.. on Monday morning of preregistration week. Yet the departments that distribute cards for card courses may open at 8:30 or even earlier, and cards go quickly to students with prior access to the next term's scheduling. Some copies of the course listing are distributed to faculty prior to their general release, and these faculty become very popular among students who wish to gain an edge on the system. The student who waits until Monday morning to start choosing courses has little or no chance of getting into some courses. 2) CARDS ARE DISTRIBUTED TO STUDENTS WHO MAY NOT USE THEM. When it is generally understood that cards go quickly on the first day of preregistration, it is only human nature that some undecided .students will protect their interests and pick up cards before finalizing their schedule. Unfortunately, the students that decide against registering for these courses usually pass the cards on to their friends instead of returning them for use by wait-listed students. Occasionally, good-intentioned students will pick up extra cards for their friends who can't be in line when the office opens, but the practice is usually discouraged by the card distributore. Sometimes the problem of cards changing hands can get ugly. \We've heard rumors of students selling cards to closed courses in past years,'' says Associate Dean of Faculty Alan Nelson, \and this teryn is no exception.\ The Dean's office is currently investigating complaints that an unnamed fraternity brother was scalping a card to a geology course for $50. 3) THE DEMAND FOR SOME COURSES IS FAR GREATER THAN THE CARD ALLOTMENT. This is especially true of liberal-learning courses that have reputations of being \guts.\ The problem coines up when the students that need LL requirements toward graduation are placed out of these courses by classmates seeking an easy course for a light term. The administration is not unaware ofthis problem, though, and aided seniors in need of a spring \F\ course by limiting cards for \Dilemmas of Physical Resources'' to the class of '80 for the first two days. While a seniority system might be helpful in isolated cases like this, it is by no means an answer to the cardmcourse problem. Rather, a cooperative effort must be made by all departments to prevent any further abuse of the card . system. While I do not profess to have \the\ solution to the problem, I would like to offer some broad-based guidelines for further consideration: a) The course offering should be made available to students a week prior to the issuance of cards. It is only fair that aU students have a chance to decide on courses before they have to queue up for cards. \ b) Cards should be issued only to students that will use them, one to a customer. Departments would require that the name of the recipient be penned on the card immediately, and a list of those students receiving cards should be filed as an attendance roster. If a student decides not to use his card, he must then notify the department so a wait-listed person can be issued a card. Written-over or erased cards would be refused by the registrar. In this way the passing on of cards to others would be eliminated, and only those people waiting in line would get cards. c) More seats should be set aside in card courses of known high demand. Second and third sections of the same course could be scheduled to keep class size manageable. d) Finally, more non-major courses that satisfy liberal-learning requirements should be planned. There is too much \bottlenecking\ of students into these courses at preregistration time, and any student with a few \C\ courses under his belt can tell you that bottlenecking makes the pressure go way up. I think you'll agree with me that more pressure at Union is the· last thin an of us needs. editors-in-chief news editors features editors arts editors photo editor sports editors layout editors associate editor calendar copy editor subscriptions staff photo staff business managers paul feinsot,donna creeley andrea bowers, ed albro, ellen van dyke barb plotkin, paul grossman cindy aranow, mandy abrams, steve monosson jeff steinberg mark palomba; rich hope rachel mandel, sue marr dan wojnilower ellen berger, maria manfr_edonia pam ryan sara simmons chris phelan, brad fisher, matt kayne norm pflaster j_ulie isgro, larry Ieavitt .:2 si~l Sll~ ~Qt};, tlfctl antt 1 strpl aid·· beUJ by.,, d.e!:l th.e 1:1 be1t the· witt SUpJ th~, agq can ''Stl 'Wit! ·poli , .. ,,,,.;p .tfLw ,rj ·chu fea; ltm:i ft:l.\~ oft. on· ··.1'1 a'tll ra~ pl~ ,~b ,r@§ ·~~ s'uj pll< 1¥n ·ihE Pa ~~~ 'ljfi ~­ ~~ m PPI .J pr1 re1 ur no at~ If. stc re ar1 U1 sh JE l

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, March 6, 1980 Guest Editorial: Card Course Comedy by BRAD KUSHNER When Tim M.' s alarm clock went off at the ungodly hour of 6 a.m., he somehow mustered the strength to rouse himself and dress. It was Monday morning, he kept reminding himself, and pre-registration for spring term courses would begin today. Although the course listings would not be available to students until9 a.m., Tim knew that the Liberal Learning geology course he wanted would be in high demand. Many students would be going to the geology office as soon as it opened to sign up for the most popular card course at Union. By heading up there at 6 a.m., he thought he could be one of the first in line. But by the time he got there at 6:15, there were over fifty students already waiting for the 25 cards that were available. A new LL course called, ·'Leonardo: Artist and Engineer'' was announced in the course listing that morning. By noon, all the cards had been taken. Most :-;tudents didn't get their course listing and didn't hear about this promising new transdisciplinary course until it was already closed out. ''Dilemmas of Physical Resources'' is a favorite ''F\ -category course in the spring, and many seniors wait until spring term to satisfy this liberal-learning requirement. The result: A seniority-based preference system was instituted, and underclassmen were unable to obtain cards this year. When I first considered transferring to Union three years ago, I was most impressed by the non-competitive attitude that was expressed by the students I talked with. Most students at Union are willing to be cooperative with one another toward furthering their understanding. Then why is it that the cooperative effort becomes viciously competitive around preregistration? 1) VERY FEW STUDENTS KNOW WHAT COURSES ARE AVAILABLE UNTIL AFTER THE CARDS ARE GONE. The course listing is available to students at 9 a.m. on Monday morning of preregistration week. Yet the departments that distribute cards for card courses may open at 8:30 or even earlier, and cards go quickly to students with prior access to the next term's scheduling. Some copies of the course listing are distributed to faculty prior to their general release, and these faculty become very popular among students who wish to gain an edge on the system. The student who waits until Monday morning to start choosing courses has little or no chance of getting into some courses. 2) CARDS ARE DISTRIBUTED TO STUDENTS WHO MAY NOT USE THEM. When it is generally understood that cards go quickly on the first day of preregistration, it is only human nature that some undecided students will protect their interests and pick up cards before finalizing their schedule. Unfortunately, the students that decide against registering for these courses usually pass the cards on to their friends instead of returning them for use by wait-listed students. Occasionally, good-intentioned students will pick up extra cards for their friends who can't be in line when the office opens, but the practice is usually discouraged by the card distributore. Sometimes the problem of cards changing hands can get ugly. \We've heard rumors of students selling cards to closed courses in past years,'' says Associate Dean of Faculty Alan Nelson, \and this term is no exception.\ The Dean's office is currently investigating complaints that an unnamed fraternity brother was scalping a card to a geology course for $50. 3) THE DEMAND FOR SOME COURSES IS FAR GREATER THAN THE CARD ALLOTMENT. This is especially true of liberal-learning courses that have reputations of being \guts.\ The problem comes up when the students that need LL requirements toward graduation are placed out of these courses by classmates seeking an easy course for a light term. The administration is not unaware of this problem, though, and aided seniors in need of a spring· 'F\ course by limiting cards for ''Dilemmas of Physical Resources'' to the class of '80 for the first two days. While a seniority system might be helpful in isolated cases like this, it is by no means an answer to the card-course problem. Rather, a cooperative effort must be made by all departments to prevent any further abuse of the card system. While I do not profess to have \the\ solution to the problem, I would like to offer some broad-based guidelines for further consideration: a) The course offering should be made available to students a week prior to the issuance of cards. It is only fair that all students have a chance to decide on courses before they have to queue up for cards. b) Cards should be issued only to students that will use them, one to a customer. Departments would require that the name of the recipient be penned on the card immediately, and a list of those students receiving cards should be filed as an attendance roster. If a student decides not to use his card, he must then notify the department so a wait-listed person can be issued a card. Written-over or erased cards would be refused by the registrar. In this way the passing on of cards to others would be eliminated, and only those people waiting in line would get cards. c) More seats should be set aside in card courses of known high de man d. Second and third sections of the same course could be scheduled to keep class size manageable. d) Finally, more non-major courses that satisfy liberal-learning requirements should be planned. There is too much \bottlenecking\ of students into these courses at preregistration time, and any student with a few '•C•' courses under his belt can tell you that bottlenecking makes the pressure go way up. I think you'll agree with me that more pressure at Union is the last thing any of us needs. editors-in-chief news editors features editors arts editors photo editor sports editors layout editors associate editor calendar copy editor subS<:riptions staff photo ~taff business managers paul feinsot, donna creeley andrea bowers, ed albro, ellen van dyke barb plotkin, paul grossman cindy aranow, mandy abrams, steve monosson jeff steinberg mark palomba; rich hope rachel man del, sue marr dan wojnilower ellen berger, maria manfredonia pam ryan sara simmons chris phelan, brad fisher, matt kayne nonn ptlaster julie isgro, larry leavitt Letters Applications Increase Dear Editor: Recently, a momentous event occurred at Union, but its full significance may not yet be appreciated by the campus community. The Admissions Office announced that it has received .a record number of applications and conducted a recotd number (}f interviews. Why is this so important? Well, for one thing, most experts on trends in higher education predicted ·exactly the opposite should happen. For example, a recent article in the Sunday Albany Times-Union suggested that the quality of Union would suffer as a result of the potentially disastrous com- bination of declining high school enrollments, tuition increases, and mass exodus of people from the Northeast. Most experts have been telling us that the future of small, private, ex~ pensive liberal arts colleges looks bleak. However, there is even more reason to be happy over the news of the record breaking numbers. I sense, there is a changing attitude on the Union campus. Despite all the apologizing for what we are not and complaining about what we could be, sorne of us are saying something good about what we are. From what I hear from the Admissions Office, students are \spreading the word\ that Union is a quality institution and that there are some very strong reasons for being here. I think the resurgence of a feeling of price and tradition is beginning to take hold. Congratulations should go to both the student body and the Admissions Office. I wonder what the skeptics of small liberal arts colleges are saying now, especially when the person complaining the loudest about the projected decline in quality of nigher education is the Chancellor. of the State University system? Michael Andolina Assistant Dean of Students White Bands- Surrender Tq the Editt1rs: It seems quite appropriate to ·me that a white arm band . should be worn by those who · protest registration for a. draft. ·However, it might be more appropriate if they carried white flags, since what they are really doing is surrendering, .both themselves and a way of life. I am amazed at how students fail to see the important ma.t- ;ters at stake, when they . downgrade the proposed registration, and even a.n eventual draft. How far are we supposed to let the Russians go? As a direct result of the Viet Nam experience, a good portion of the American youth will never feel it is time for a draft. Well, it sure as hell is time £or one now. Unfortunately, we in the United States · have become dependent on a very volatile section of the world. We have, in actuality, backed ourselves into a corner, that we must defend to preserve our standard of living. I wonder how many of the arm band wearing students would be willing to change their lifestyles? Everybody has the rigbt to protest, and say what they feel, but are they wilUng to protect these very rights, which everyday are becoming less · universally practiced? It seems not, and that is a real tragedy. The events that have taken place in Afghanistan in recent days have pointed out a very important fact. We have been lulled into a feeling of false security, a security which the Russians have shown us is not really there. We do not have the means to insur('! our way oflife, and by that I mean the military means. I certainly would not want to go into a war, but if called upon r would. I feel the style of life I have been for- tunate enough to enjoy in the United States is worth defen- ding. It's a shame that some of my fellow students don't feel the same way. If a war should occur, hopefully there will be enough people who believe in fighting to protect our system, to preserve it for all of us. Even for those who chose nDt to protect it themselves. Ben Kronish '80 We Need Fresh Reps To the Editors: It's bad enough that freshmen have had to be dealt repeated blows from Concordiensis as to· their character, maturity and actions but now it has gone too far! In the published student government association c()n~ stitution there is mentioned that representatives will sit on the Student Affairs Council, the Student Committee on Com- mittees, and the Student Finance Committee. There will be nine representatives (three from \each class\) on the Student Affairs Council (article IV, sec. I); three elected class representatives (one from each class) (article VII, sec. 3) on the Student Committee on Com- mittees; and on the Student Finance Committee, there will be ''three elected class representatives (one from each class\ (f!rticle VIII. sec. 3). Later one realizes that ''each class\ means sop'homo:re~ junior and senior classes. Are the freshmen not a class? Of course not. Do fr-eshmen participate less here at Union? Of course nQt. Are we affected less by what is decided by these committees: Of course not. So why do we have no repre~en~ tation in .these vital groups? Should our concerns about student life here at Union go . unheard? 0£ course not. 1 ask for the constitution to be changed before ratification. We must be represented. TedBeltan Class of 1983 Carter Errs To the Editot•s: The United Nations vote of March 1, condemning the Israeli policy concerning set· Jlements on the West Bank, is another step backwards ln the attainment of a \com- prehensive'' Middle East peaee settlement. Mr. Carter has once again · shown that he is in- capable of learning from past American foreign policy blunders.. ln 1956, in an attempt . to convince Egypt to join the Baghdad Pact, John Foster Dulles told Israel that it would have to rely on \collective security 1 • and the United Nations for protection of its national security. In addition to placing distance between the United States and Israel, Dulles applied pressure on England to · Codtinued 011 page 3 - - ( sign Suez EgYl that men Dt plyil fear und~ Uni( allo, cont the J and .SUPI .aid be in by deci the Tl bell the witt sup] the and Can ·'stt Ti1e poll T to Ana pea Eg~ aga chu fea: · !osi ex. a oft oil fi . alii rat ply wb res pol ov~ sue pr< An .t thE i Pa ' i na1 So· bi€ we peJ na pri ] pr• rel Ut no an If stc · re \' ~. an . U1 :sh ~ JE T a tl v p !;: .t: r \ \ E ~ I ] ·- i .1 .. . ' , -~ J

.CONOORDJ.FJNSIS, March 6 1 198Q_ Page 3 uit1fl'in>~1iii.;,.,.., . to e-entinue to 'llna··~·t~:t>i\att•··· broaden··· our·· educational· ex~ the school' ; · perience·;·d:e$pite~the fact .. that ····· ··,·was n~~errea1lyfo11given litse~, .... ··.· -it&-d:!ffor;ts.Jla¥,~ r~ned .I.!J.l-: . \''t}f <·•·•non~ · 'fOI.\\\'f!0t ·beingr h.lY\·League .. \and ,., · nq.ti~!'!d, .'l( e ar~. IlQt trying to beTl:tgeirenl~· 'EWei'Ittlil~1lv 4ietr\'·to \' neither . h~Vfh ita ... atlldents.. ,. .. . \t!;)ot q. ns' (although Lord th~ · ·· · •. · · · the·fig~ptians ... .--Xh.e .. Jii~1utkmll\h Ji(c!:llJ.~~t tp .~~;xs .... · .... , .... ·. else.;Will.do it. for Wtth\the Sovtetspa C.Oll~htn·4r.aq .,. ~CC~pj;J)PJ,D.p.~g{: }\'h~t Jt J~_:, .8, . _US): 'RB.the~, We WISh the ~ew suppantedA.ly~NaSSet<tbat,,,en!.Jed . J)Jl~ ~~~All£ ll:lS~~tu.u~n w1th a · York 'l)me~ would take the tune th!:t ... I1f!ghda<.l .P~ . . unique hiStory . artd''\iraoitfti'n: · .·. to· ' ·tnveshgate refOt!ms · .. aqg~.J~~.. · · · '~- Co'rresp'Ontl'ingly~:·· UnhJ!1; 1 S ··· cOOi-eg~&··sbnilar .to nur o}\ltlt , c~~! ' .. ~£ 0• ·st~de~tlf ·mu:st:\'begu;r·\<iu~··take ' Q$]}£Qka~}.~, -~~um ~h~.y .• <ttre '\*tra~glt.rm · · · /'1'l'td~'·tn,.tll()sehooJr,i\ntl,~eas~t,t9 .. \J~ii£~~e4. .. 1~L t~e. tr~~tate. ~~g!-9!1· 'm~w·'b:itig· elilk' · · · .. ,tJerate,.thems-elv,t1s.,for,.nut. at)jug... ··~,. 1\ .. ~§JlW!!!:tun_ .. ·.··· ate th. _at pr.e .. ClOUS . b .· •......... · · ~-· · .. ·. ·am.e anu en~rgy was wasted at · · · · ·· ·· · · · · · · .···. Statlfura~ when a · · model ··'\ was'Gil4'e3dy ••8 rva1lable··~tt•1fniG~· Corrections: In a recent Concordy article describing Parents Weekend, yve omitted an important item. Ms. Lorraine Marra is coor- dinating efforts for Parents Weekend along with the Parents . Weekend Committee. The ar- ticle mentioned only Michael Andolina's name. _Corrections to the final examination schedule: Wedlles~ay, March 19, 1980 Political Science 12-- Contemporary International Politics--Sec. 2--BROWN-~SS 112. Sociology 152--Sociology of Education-ss 014-Weiner . ·' ~ Another Guest Editorial : Are You A Sap? Because of the importance of this issue, CON· CORDIENSIS offers you another Guest Editorial concerning preregistration. by ANDREW TALLMER (c) Idiotics 101: The Card System at Union--any term. 4 a.m. It is time, the walrus said, for an examination of the· pre-term registration process at thi's college. Only last week was I privileged to try to get a card for \Special Topics in Geology,\ although to my dismay, all the cards were gone. Gone, that is, at 7:15 in the morning (perhaps they were depleted by 7: 15 of the evening before). I submit to you, fellow students and lovers of geology, that the card system, ln its present form, is about as effective as Bob Dole's presidential campaign. Many times have I heard from others, as well as from numerous personal experiences, that some have been shut out of courses, often deprived of taking courses ,that were needed for the insanity and inanity known as Liberal Learning. So, in response to the problem of .getU..ng cards, an organization has been formed: students who wish to join S.A.P. (Students Against Putrid, Peculiar, and Positively Inpalpable Preregistration), are invited to sign up on . a waiting list at the break of dawn on the Ides of March. To all of you who have been made saps of, and to all you administrators and professors who lie warmly under your electric blankets while students shiver outside your card-containing offices, the following recommendations are devoted: 1. First and foremost, allow seniors to have first crack at cards--everyone else has plenty of time to finish Liberal Girting. Didn't anyone ever think of this before? 2. Make sure that all cards are handed out not · before but on the day of preregistration. 3. Add more sections of popular courses; limiting some to thirty students while 150 want to get in is silly. 4. Have students \take a number\ when they arrive at an office: this will prevent \butting-in\ on lines. Also, give one ''number\ per student, not, as I can see happening, thirty. 6. Give anyone who has read a Faulkner novel first crack at all cards. Edito~ial Reply: We Agree We agree with those of you who disagree with \I Just Disagree\ (the article which appeared on the Arts and Culture pages of our last issue). Many readers understandably misinterpreted the article as a r~view of the Dave Mason concert of February 26th. Th1swas not the article's intent nor was it intended as a ctiticism of the Concert Committee, Proctor's Theatre personnel, or anyqne else involved with the organization of the concert. The article was meant as a satirical critique of Mr. Mason's music in general and was only a reflection of the author's oplnion in this matter. Indeed, Mr. Monosson, for various reasons, did not in fact attend the concert. The editorial board takes full responsibility for the error in the presentation of this article and regrets all misunderstandings that arose from it. Unfortunately, we do not have sufficient space to print all of the letters received in response to this article. In addition, some letters were judged to be a personal attack on the author and so were deemed inappropriate for inclusion. Therefore, due to the lack of space and our desire not to offend anyone we will not print any of the letters. We hope that this action Will not discourage your future responses to the paper. · We extend our apologies to all of those people in· volved in the concert (Dave Mason and his fellow performers, the Concert Committee, the personnel of Proctor's Theatre, and the many fans who attended) who might have taken offense upon reading the ar- ticle. We also extend an invitation to anyone with a differing opinion of Dave Mason's music to submit it for publication.

, '- .'.!. CONCORDIENSIS, March 6, 1980 etter Continued from page 2 - sign a treaty concerning the Suez ~ana! on almost totally Egypttan terms, England at that time was already a , member of the Baghdad Pact. Dulles refrained from aJr plying pressure on .Egypt for fear of pushing Nasser's regime under the wing of the Soviet Union. What this did was to allow Nasser to successfully continue his policy of playing on the fears of both the Americans and Soviets and ensure the supply of arms and economic . aid from both countries. After being continually embarrassed by the Arab leader, Dulles decided to withhold funds for the Aswan Dam. '\\' This policy of non- belligerence eventually led to the alignment of the Egyptians with the Soviets, a c:oup in Iraq supported by Nasser that ended the Baghdad Pact altogether, and the closing of the Suez Cana.l to aU ships carrying ·'strategic materials\ to Israel. The biggest tragedy of this policy was the 1956 War. · Today Jimmy Carter is trying to persuade the \moderate\ Arab countries to join in t:ne peace process initiated by Egypt and Israel. The Arabs again are playing the U.S. for a chump by playing on American fears. This time it is the fear of ·losing our precious oil which is exacerbated by the possibility • of the Soviet Union 15ecoming an oil .importer in the 1980's. Rather than chastizing our allies publicly we should be rallying behind them and ap· plying pressure on those from whom we wish to elicit a response. By the . time this ·policy of being a sycophant is over, Mr. Carter will have successfully built upon his program which began with Andrew Young. That policy is the establishment of a ·Palestinian State. This new nation would undoubtedly be a Soviet ally. However, the biggest farce of them all is that we most likely will be unable to persuade the \moderate\ Arab nations to join in the peace process. 1 urge Mr. Carter to apply pressure on those who have received so much from the United States and have given nothing but hollow promises and higher oil priCes in return. If not, President Carter's next ~~tep will be to tell the Israelis to f:Jrely on ''collective security\ ':and the UN. After aU, the , United Nations has continually · shown what a good. friend of the · Jewish $tate .it actually is. schuol, the opportunities certainly com· Ivy League educational available are parable. However, many students arrive with an impression of Union as a lesser institution, a feeling brought ()n by their own rejection by an Ivy. This at· titude is unfairly foisted .. on Union and those oJ us who have chosen to be here. Con· sequently, a good many people spend their time at Union either trying to prove their superiority or building a false image of the collegEJ. In so doing, they destroy what could be an enriching academic and social experience. In short, the school has never really forgiven itself for not being Ivy League, and neither have. its students. The soluti<>n is, .of course, to accept Union for what it is: a fine academic institution with a unique history and tradition. Correspondingly, Union.'s students must begin to take pride in the school and cease to b€rate themselves for not going elsewhere. The reputation \If a school is derived from the attitude its students take toward the in- stitution. therefore in degrading Union, you are only degrading yo11rself. Mark H. Burnett '80 CharlesJ. Marchand '80 Daniel P~ Stipano '80 Union In Front Ed. Note: Tbis letter is a copy of one which was sent to the New York 'Times 2·2.6..8(}. To the Editon As seniors (}f Union College, a liberal arts institution in ScheQectady, New York, our education has unfortunately been ace om panied by con- tinuous reminders from members of the academic elite that our attempts at academic creativity .. are \inherently'' inferior. Perhaps even more disturbing, many in our academic community have .accepted this external per· eeption, leading to a chronic feeling of inferiority. This misperception is only rein- forced by articles such as \Stanford Joins in Core Reform.\ (february 26! It is obvioos that Union reacted with more ''deliberate· speed\ to the problems of ambiguous distribution requirements which had led to students accumulating scat,. tered, and oJten disparate. introductory courses. This is the Catch 22 of not being considered a member of educational reform, our efforts remain unrecognized by the wider academic circles. We wonder why we continue, and if indeed Union will continue, to strive for academic creativity . We applaud our college's willingness to continue to broaden our educational ex~ pertence, despite the fact that its efforts have remained un- noticed. We are not trying to \toot our horns\ (although Lord knows, no one else will do it for · us l. Rather, we wish the New York Times would take the time to investigate reforms in colleges similar to our own: especially when they are located in the tri-state region. It is unfortunate that precious time and energy was wasted at Stanford, when a proven model · was already available at Union for their evaluation. We understand that when Harvar-d speaks, academic people listen. However, it is -unfortunate that the essence of their words was predated by at least one heretofore· unrecognized institution. Respectfully yours, Laurie Brecher '80 Lisa Katz '80 · Meta· lettah To the Editors: This is a letter about letters (' \meta~lettah so to speak). Your new policy of refusing to publish letters containing personal attacks is unnecessary and misdirected. One of the goals of college education is to teach critical thinking and writing. Concordy provides a medium through which the campus community can air legitimate complaints and enjoy the intellectual exercise of argumen't and debate. Moreover, 1 see nothing wrong with an occasional witty ad hominem letter. A college newspaper should encotll\'age an appreciation of high comedy •• and no public figure or organization is immune from well-written ridicule. Of course, it is their right to reply in turn. 1 appeal to the editors to reconsider this short sighted policy. Sincerely, Adam Frey Thank you. Erie Levine Class. of 1960 Accept U nlon To the Editors: As graduating seniors, we feel an obligation to make known to · the campus community what we feel is one of Union's major problems and to suggest a possible remedy. In general, the problem stems from a noticeable lack of identification with the college by its students which . is manifest in ahnost every aspect of studentlife. The absence· of a feeling of com· rnunity and a commitment is more characteristic of a shoe factory than a college. Case in point. Harvard University is· claimed to have put a spotlight on a nation-wide movement of educational reform, due to its program adopted in 1979. Stanford has followed in suit with the projected implementation of its core curriculum. These two leaders are· proclaimed prophets ·of a trend which reverses the outcome of the student rebellions of the 1960's. However, two years before these •supposedly' innovative changes, Union College adopted a \Liberal Learning Program'' which mandates the selection of courses .from six areas of major . modern th()ught, as well as emphasizes a knowledge of technology'..$ impact on society. In fact, Stanford's program is · strikingly similar to its Union 'precursQr.' · The Union Program requires students to select two courses from categories B through E · and either one course from . category A and two from .F or vice versa from the categories · P.S. I originally wanted to write about Concordy~s refusal to publish the word \A-y\, but I didn't really feel like it, and besides, nobody cares. ' ' • • • ,,l ~'. •• '' .. • • • • ' Corrections: In a recent Concordy article describing Parents Weekend, we omitted an important item. Ms. Lorraine Marra is coor- dinating efforts for Parents Weekend along with the Parents Weekend Committee. The ar- ticle mentioned only Michael Andolina's namP.. · Union's identity crisis is fed . by the unwillingness of the school and a good many ·Of its , students to accept themselves . for what they are. Academically, Union is an exeelh:mt institution, better than most students realize. While it may lack the recognition of an listed bel\IW: · · A: Arts and Literature B: Human Behavior and , Institutions C: Natural Sciences D: Perspectives from · Another Culture E: Symbolic and Quantitative Reasoning F: Technology and Its Social A . Ucatjons ... . .... . . Corrections to the final examination schedule: Wednesday, March 19,1980 Political Science 12-- Contemporary International Politics--Sec. 2--BROWN-·SS 112. Sociology 152--Sociology of Education-SS 014-Weiner Page 3 Another G~uest Editorial : Are You A Sap? Because of the importance of this issue, CON· COEDIENSIS offers you another Guest Editorial concerning preregistration. by ANDREW TALLMER (c) Idiotics 101: The Card System at Union--any term. 4a.m. It is time, the walrus said, for an examination of the pre-term registration process at this college. Only last week was I priv Ueged to try to get a card for \Special Topics in Geology,\ although to my dismay, all the cards were gone. Gone, that is, at 7:15 in the morning (perhaps they were depleted by 7: 15 of the evening before J. I submit to you, fellow students and lovers of geology, that the card system, in its present form, is about as effective as Bob Dole's presidential campaign. Many times have I heard from others, as well as from numerous personal experiences, that some have been shut out of courses, often deprived of taking courses that were needed for the insanity and inanity known as Liberal Learning. So, in response to the problem of getting cards, an organization has been formed: students who wish to join S.A.P. (Students Against Putrid, Peculiar, and Positively Inpalpable Preregistration), are invited to sign up on a waiting list at the break of dawn on the Ides of March. To all of you who have been made saps of, and to all you administrators and professors who lie warmly under your electric blankets while students shiver outside your card-containing offices, the following recommendations are devoted: 1. First and foremost, allow seniors to have first crack at cards--everyone else has plenty of time to finish Liberal Girling. Didn't anyone ever think of this before? 2. Make sure that all cards are handed out not before but on the day of preregistration. 3. Add more sections of popular courses; limiting some to thirty students while 150 want to get in is silly. 4. Have students \take a number\ when they arrive at an office: this will prevent \butting-in\ on lines. Also, give one \number\ per student. not, as I can see happening, thirty. 6. Give anyone who has read a Faulkner novel first crack at all cards. Editorial Reply: We Agree We agree with those of you who disagree with • 'I Just Disagree\ (the article which appeared on the Arts and Culture pages of our last issue). Many readers understandably misinterpreted the article as a r~view of the Dave Mason concert of February 26th, This was not the article's intent nor was it intended as a criticism of the Concert Committee, Proctor's Theatre personnel, or anyone else involved with the organization of the concert. The article was meant as a satirical critique of Mr. Mason's music in general and was only a reflection of the author's opinion in this matter. Indeed, Mr. Monosson, for various re~sor:s, did not in fact attend the concert. The ~ditonal board takes full responsibility for the error m the presentation of this article and regrets all misunderstandings that arose from it. Unfortunately, we do not have sufficient spare to print all of the letters received in response to this article. In addition, some letters were judged to be a personal attack on the author and so were deemt'd inappropriate for inclusion. Therefore, due to the lack of space and our desire not to offend anyone we will not print any of the letters. We hope that this action will not discourage your future responses to the paper. We extend our apologies to all of those people in· volved in the concert (Dave Mason and his fellow performers, the Concert Committee, the personnel of Proctor's Theatre, and the many fans who attended) ~ho might have taken offense upon reading the ar· bcle. We also extend an invitation to anyone with a differing opinion of Dave Mason's music to submit it for publication.

' ( • ~ Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, March 6, 1980 Polish Defector Interviewed: Rink ls··Sce:ne Of B·rothers' Uni·on ' - ' . ' til E rc L.. ..c <( >- \0 c:: rc ~ c:: ::: rc L.. 0 Continued from page 1 amateur and professional athletes. M.K. : Are these Polish hockey players amateurs or professionals? · V .J.: Ha !.: They are far from government. To the Polish government their men are being paid as army personnel and that is all. There is a fine line distinction between being an amateur and a professional. I leave it to your discretion onf lives in Poland, however, this kind of information is kept from him. I can only relate what I have been told which is that this kind of system not only goes in Russia but it is, because of· the size of the country, on a much lawer scale. I have heard that the U.S.S.R. has as many as · 10,000 qualified hockey players to choose from. If they place only 1,000 of these in the army then they still have a highly select grouping of the nation's most formidable players--a team which c<:~n col11pet,e-against any other team in the world. M.K.: Let us turn for a moment to the actual athletes. ·What is it like for them to play in a free country like America? V.J.: For them this is a once in a lifetime trip. It is, for all but . a few, the greatest thing in the world. Let me expla~n for a moment. · Poland is a jail. People want to get out of the jail but they'are not allowed to ·do .so. We are guarded by the government. There is very little movement of citizens from city to city let alone from county to county. Few, only the elite, are allowed out of the country. If a player wakes this team, however, he has the chance of a· lifetime for he can travel and see how others live. In this light, you can imagine the high amount of competition involved with respeGt to making this team. \G.o she said. M.K.: How do the players respond to your presence? After all, you defected from their country ... ''You deserve freedom.\ being amateurs. All the players on this team are 'secretly' paid wages. It's what you would call undercover payments. As a matter of fact, however, tbey are amongst the highest paid professionals in all of Poland. They make more than most physicians and lawyers. M.K.: You say they are paid secretly. How is this ac- complished? V.J. It is a very simple system . . . and one which is practiced, so I hear, in the Soviet Union and all Soviet satellite nations. The players that show the )110St promise by the time they are 18 are enlisted in the army. Here, they work hard, bulk up, get in shape, for two years. Should combat arise, however, they would be the last to go. By the age of 20, if they still appear to be good··enough, the better players are placed on intra-army teams in leagues. established by the. army and.. they pl~y against each other. (It is easy to tell who the best players are by watching the games.) The rigorous athletic workouts, bu this stage of their development, cease and most all the work is now done on the ice. There are two workouts, each consisting of about three hours. Only a handful of thl:se players, twenty-five in all, make the P.O.I.H.T. The others continue to ·play m the league. However, as you would asswne, the team players are the last to go into combat in the case of war. With respect to this secret payment, I spoke about, it toois very simple. You see, all army personnel are paid. Those with higher status ·make more money than others. The team players are of the highest status and consequently they make the most money. This, however, is hot con- sidered payment for their athletic orowess by the whether or not you feel these players are professionals. M.K.: Y01ihave spoken of the eighteen year old athlete. How does one learn the basic skills of the game at an early age? V .J. : In Poland, there are hockey towns. Nqwy Targ is one . such town. This may seem a bit strange to you, being an American, but believe me that it is true. You must remember as well that all Polish people under our system, are merely cogs in the machine that makes the country move. We are all told we have our place in life. And we must stay in this place. Though not all citizens of my town are hockey players, most . are. Usually, the females learn to figure skate and the males can either figure skate or play hockey. Perhaps, at least with respect to this question, I should talk of myself. I am told, though I do not remember, that when I learned how to walk I ~earned how to V .J.: As you know I am here to see my brother play here tUnion) and in Lake Placid. I know many of the players on the ' team either through my prior affiliations with the team or through my brother. Many of the players are friends of mine as well. It is Junny to say, but from what I can sense, although we are not allowed to talk about it, the players respect me for what I did. I think it is something they all would like to do. If they could. M.K.: You mean to say that given the chance, many of the players would defect? V .J. : Certainly. The friends I had a chance to talk to politically while in Poland were very discontent with the country as a whole. Let me tell you .something which reflects the attitude of the people. Contrary to what may be hhought in America, all citizens that work in our communist state get a paycq~ck at the end . of the week. And what is done \The players respect me for what I did.\ skate. Even as a five year old, I skated incessantly. My father, a: hockey player, was ~Y teacher in early life, but as I grew I needed more guidance. By age' 10, I was playing competitive hockey against children my age. We had 'teachers who would stop play to teach us lessons if we varied from the norm. We had leagues established within the city and once again, even the most unscrutinizing observer can · determine who the better hockey players are. These better players from town!s such as Npw.f Targ are sent to the army by·age 18 where they can play competitively. M.K.: And this system prevails in Russia? . V.J.: Yes. so I am told. When with this par_check? The majority of the working class spends nea-rly half of their ijlOney on alcohol, and one- fourth of thelr money on tobacco. With the remainder of their money they must buy food. The point is that the people · feel they are jailed in. What they must do, consequently, is cope. The best way that they know how to .cope is with cigarettes and alcohol. This helps cushion the impact of living in such a depressing state. · Relating to your question the fact that most people are discontent leads one to think of getting 'OUt--of , leaving the country. How do you leave th,e country though? The only way to do it is to defect while on a government supported and funded trip. Because transit ·is so severely limited .(as l said, travel from city to city is dif- ficult) defection while out of the country ls the only possibility. It's 'like a convict who is let out of jail for a day. Will he run away or stay? M. K. : You t~k ofthe country as being a jail. You talk of the people as being so distraught that they must drink alcohol and smoke to tl::te point of habitual and :delinquent usage. You talk of people defecting if mind, one must realize that it is a great dete~:rent. Who wants to revolt if they know they will be killed? Why bother·? What will it get you? ~erhaps in a few generations it may happen . . . once people get tired enough of the regime. But as for now,. I doubt it. M.K.: Let's return to Afghanistan. What do you think the reaction is in Poland to the present Russian invasion? V ;,J. : It's very easy. The government of Poland will .say that it .feels very strongly that ''Poland is a jail.'' they could. What, then, do the people think of their govern· ment? V.J.: Well, it is hard to say. There is a mix ot1 this, some people will be patriotic to anything. Others simply will not accept it. I'll tell you though in our country there is far too much propaganda and not enough truth. I guarantee you that very little is being .told to the citizens about the Russian invasion of Afghanistan. lf anything is being told to the citizens they are probably being told the offensive was retaliatory in nature. r assure you that the magnitude of the mission has not been disclosed to the public. This kind of shading of the truth once the citizens can comprehend that it is occurring can only bother the citizens. They feel they are being lied to. . How can they trust their government? · M.K.: If the people are, as you say, depressed and distraught by the government's actions, why don't they revolt· and try to change the govern- ment? V.J.: Look at the history books. All Soviet satellites try at one time or another to do it. What happens? The Russians come in, display their strength, kill a few key figures, and that is it. It's a very easy and simple way to stop a revolt. Kill it. Revolts were tried in Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Poland, and now in Afghanistan. Until all satellite . country citizens unite along with their armies these attempts at revolt will be--futile. M.K.: ·Do you foresee any kind of revolution-revolt in store in Poland? V.J.: With what I just said in what' Kussia is doing is both necessary and fair. They are not taking over another nation; they are protecting their in- terests. M.K.: What is the average citizen's reaction? . V .J.: Most all people despise Russia. They are the root of an our problems. Th~i.r im- perialistic policies have crip- pled our government. Poland is merely a Russian _puppet. Though the governmept is in favor of what Russia is daing, the people would lean toward the other end of the spectrum. This, however, cannot be ex- pressed for there is no· freedom of speech in Poland. The people know how strong Russia is. How-imperialistic she is . . . Few would like to see Russia get stronger'. However, if there were a war tomorrow all Polish citizens would fight on Russia's side. They have to. M.K.: As a Canadian citizen would you fight against Russia if asked? V:J.: I can't really say right now. It would depend on the circumstances. But I don't agree with what Russia is d()ing in' Afghanistan. However, in any case I am glad to have, my freedom and to be a citizen of a free democratic republic such as Canada. ED. NOTE: The reader should note that although, this article appears one-sided in its viewpoint, it is rightfully so due to the obvious .strong opinions of the defector and thus-could not. be avoided. ~ Any reproduction, duplication, or other use of this article without the express written consent of the editors of Concordiensis is strictly prohibited. · .Make Your Commitment~ To Union College · \The Nott Memorial Is unquestionably the, symbol of Union College.\ Campaign for Union Brochure The Nott .Memoria I Restoratioh and Endowment · Comm.ittee needs you! All students and faculty are welcome. Sign u,p In the Student Activities Office in Carnegie Hall. ' . - E Sh For< be a then w~s agel Poll last · cont Fra star that ere< COUl had fact the D exp wet Uni - .stU< att if tra sch dur cas coll tak vie RaJ bot Fm ( itSI dis M~ Ne ap ha thl Th thl on sh wl tri an ar be tir irr ex H1 bCJ nu C1 CC L: se C1 81 la la w hl gJ cl tl lJ p p c h \ [ a ,., p

' . ' OONOORDiENSIS~ March 6J 1980· Page 5 EPC Discusses R by DA VlD WOLLIN Should students taking Air Force ROTC course&_ at R.P.I. be allowed to receive credit for them at Union College? This W;,iS the main topic on the agenda of t.he Educational Policy Committee which met last· Friday to decide this · controversial issue. Professor Frank Lambert, of Biology, .started the discussion by noting that Union College had given credit in the past for ROTC courses but remarked that it had no control over either the faculty staffing or the content of the courses. Dean Nelson continued by explaining that presently there were two reasons whereby Union. College gave credit to - students for courses not offered at this school. The reasons were if the student was. either transferring from another school, or ff he took the courses during the summer, in which case it depended ·upon the college where the courses. were taken. On hand to voice their views on the subject were Randy Pet yak and Tim Cooley, both of whom enrolled in the Air Force ROTC pro~ram. They proposed that Umon College give four credits for taking six courses, but there was reluc• tance on the part of the faculty at the meeting to accept their proposal. UnfortWlately, three of the Divisions (Sciences, Social Sciences, and Engineering) had not yet met to decide the issue but there were some doubts and negative reactions. Division l (Humanities) had met previously and discussed the issue and voted unanimously against it. Professor Anton Warde, EPC Chairman, con· ti:r:med by stating that there were some eourses, such as Archeology, that were not of· fered at Union but nevertheless given credit. Professer Wilson iidded that the committee should approve the courses if they met with Union Colleg<J standards, regardless of whether they were ROTC courses or not. The main question that still remained ,vas whether the committee should accept in principle the idea of giving ROTC course credit, or look at the individual courses them· selves, and decide from there. Professors Lambert and Wein:er Save ·The Seals Canada will once again fino itself the target of world-wide disapproval \this year. In mid- March, off the coast of Newfoundland, hunters will kill approximately 180,000 baby harp seals with the consent of the Canadian government. These seals will be less than three weeks old; their fur is only white and profitable for a short time after birth. Their white pelts will be used for boot trim, glove linings, fur coats and toy harp seals--all, are · articles that harp seal fur can be subsituted for. Is th~ con- tinued production of these items important enough to cause the extinction of the harp seal? Hunters kill over half of the baby seal population, and this is not even the quota set by the Canadian government. Sealing on Canada's Atlantic coast' began centuries ago. Labrador Indians used the harp seal for food, clothing and fuel. Commercial sealers began arriving in Newfoundland in the late 18th century, and by the late m40's, the sealing fleets were highly mechanized. Now hunters arrive on the nursing grounds in great numbers, with clubs in hand; ready to bash in the skulls of \the baby seals. Canadian Ambassador Peter M. Towe 1746 Massachusettes Ave. NW Washington, D.C. 20036 Premier Frank Moores Confederation Building St. John's, Newfoundland AIC 5T7 Norwegian Ambassador Mr. Sren C. Sommerfelt 4200 Wisconsin Ave. NW Washington, D.C. 20016 The United States has its own fur seal slaughter in late June. · Subsidized ·by tax '\l:iollars native Alaskans will kill ao,ooo, 2-3 year old male fur seals in the Pribilof Islands, off the coast,of Alaska. This seal hunt is just as cruel as the Canadian harp seal slaughter, although the num- bers .killed is less. Americans are urged to bring· pressure on the United States government. Write to your Congressperson. ·- Filin Course Ironically, the harp seals are The documentary film, from protected by an Animal Robert Flaherty'.s \Nanook of Protection Act issued by the the North'.' to \Te.enage Canadian govermnenkThis act Father,\ will be explored in a however, protects .the seals only four-week- course at Union when it is not hunting !ieason. College beginning April 11. During March,'the act Jlrobibits Classes will be held from 7 to an individual from interfering 9:30 p.m. on four consecutive with the kill under the guise of Fridays, and the fee is $40 ($10 protecting the· anima{. for a single performance).. The Canadian government Highlighting the showing of asserts that the hunt is an · such classics Qf the genre as economic necessity. One may '-Leni Riefenstapl's \The ask, to whom is it a necessity? Triumph of the Will''-a hyp- Only .1 percent of the notically powerful propaganda Newfoundland economy is fihn of the Nazi Party's 1934 dependent · upon sealing, and rally at Nuremberg-will be the only .2 percent of the Province's commentary of instructor 560,000 people are employed by James N. Manilla. the commercial sealing in- Man i 11 a ,.- personally '· dustry. The schooners are from acquainted with most of the film Norway ·and most .of the club- makers he will discuss, will~ bing is done by Norwegians. present little-known facts and March 10 is International interesting anecdotes about the Harp Seal Day. We must save documentaries. A fi.lm maker these mammals from senseless himself, Manilla has produced, slaUghter and poss~ble ex- written, directed, and-or edited ··~tinction. Everyone is urged to more than 6;000 non~theatrical write letters and make their works. A graduate of Yale opinions known. Maybe this · University who got his start year we can save'180,000 seals. with the General . Electric · , Broadcasting Co. in Schenec- Prime Minister Trudeau tady, ~he has produced 'com- House of Commons mercials for such companies as Ottawa, Ontario KIA. OA3 Contmued on pageJ3 wanted to look at the courses themselves while 'Professor MiliUo added that the ROTC courses should not be us~d to fill Liberal Learning Requirements but must come from the elec- tives category. .By the end of the discussion, the committee unofficially decided that they would give two credits for ROTC courses and that they would view more specifically each of the courses. In addition, it was decided' that the courses must be taken from the electives category and not used to satisfy the Liberal Learning Requirements. The issue was tabled until March 14th so that the collllllittee could receive more information on the subject before~a \\Ote could be ·taken. Lecture On Einstein Einstein pu·pil and collaborator, Peter Pergmarui, Professor of P4ysics at Syracuse University, will speak • on Friday, April 4 in the con- tinuing series of talks sponsored by the Department of Physics. The title of the lecture is \The Heritage .of Albert Einstein,'' and it will deal with lesser- known aspects of Einstein's work. and with his outStanding character traits as a scientist and as a huinan being with deep social commitments. The · lecture is intended for the general public; it will begin at 4:30 p.m., room SS 016. Last year, Union College observed .the anniversary of Einstein'S birth with a lecture by Banesh Hoffmann, Ein- stein's other· collaborator at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton. This year Union College presents the lecture by Bergmann and also an exhibit of photographs of Einstein's life and work. This exhibit, on loan from the Institute for Advanced Study, will be on display ·beginning March 18 in the lobby of Schaffer Library during the three weeks preceding April 4. In his lecture,· Professor Bergmann wants to emphasize that. \though Albert Einstein's name is primarily associated with the two theories of ._relativity, he has also made ~ decisive contributions to other areas of mod_ern physics, in- . eluding quantwn physics and solid state scienc~. the foun- dations of present-day technology. The theories · of relativity arose out of his striving to resolve certain paradoxa of physical .laws by analyses of the underlying t;oncepts .of space and time. Beyond these towering achievements Einstein, throughout his later life, strove to achieve a further unification of our understanding of the laws of nature, a program known as unified field theory.\ Peter Bergmann is one of the world's leading experts on relativity. Born in Germany, he received his doctorate from the University of Prague. From 1936 to\'1941 he worked with · Einstein at the Institute for Advanced Study, in search of the Wlified theory of fields. Professor Bergmann holds simultaneous appointments at Syracuse University and at Yeshiva University in New York City, spending half the week at each place. He is the author of many original and incisive scientific articles, and he has also written · several textbooks dealing with rel~tivity. Among his books is The Riddle of Gravitation, prol,?ably the best popular, norunathematical introduction 1:o Einstein's theories. Anti-Dr~ft Ra·lly On Saturday, March 8th, there will be a TEACH-IN against the draft and the war drive. It will be held in the St. Joseph Auditorium (College of St. Rose, 988 Madison Ave., Albany). · Starting at 12 Noon, there will be information and a literature display. At 1 PM, speakers will be followed by workshops and a film. Also, educational child care will be provided. The teach-in will be- sponsored- by the Albany Peace Coalition, and for more information, call: 462- 0329 or 462~891. On March 22, there will be a National March and Rally against the Draft in Washington, D.C. Sponsored by the National Mobilization against the, Draft, (M.A.D.), other sponsors and endorsers will include: United States Student Association, Americans for Democratic Action, Womens' International League for Peace & Freedom, Boston Alliance against Registration and the Draft, Jewish Peace Fellowship, Luthei;_~m Peace Fellowship, the Student Ed. Note: This letter was received by Professor Barry Smith of the Arts Department who wanted to share it with the Unior College community. Dear Barry: We are in receipt of your letter of F'ebruary 19 and are delighted that the Second Comp.any will be at Union College for the coming season. The S~cond Company has just ap- pointed a manager, John Kazanjian, who will be in touch with you shortly. He can be reached through our New York office (245 Park Avenue, 17th fl., NY 10017) should you want to write to hi.m before you hear from him. I'll brief him on what has transpired so far. ~ I wanted to also let you know'that due to the fact that we may have problems keeping administrative staff on past August 24th, we. may not be able to close as late as August 31st. It's only a possibillty at this point, but if it comes to that, we will of course still give the same total number of performanpes. Also, strong credit will be given, of course, to Union College · in all that we do from now on. I'm del ighted\''hat this has come about and I'm sure it will be a good experience for all of us. Still feel free to contact me for anything you may need and I'll look forward to seei.ng you in the summer. Best regards, -~ Gail Obenre.der Preseason Coordinator Williamstown Theatre Festival • Association of the State University of New York, and the Womens' Strike for Peace. Also, on Monday, March 24, Congress will be lobbied. For more information contributions, purchasing leaflets, ($3 for 100, $12-500, $20- 1000, $50-5000) or to be a contact person for the Union Com- munity or the Schenectady area, please contact: March 22 National Mobilization against the Draft, 853 Broadway, Room 801, New York, New York 10003 or ca.I~: (212) 260-3270. ' Interested In Dance? There will be a meeting of the Union College Dance Club .on Sunday, March 10 at 11:30 a.m. in Strauss lounge. Discover the world of Dance at Union and in the Capita·! District area. Find out about the Jose Limon Company, the New London Dancers,· and others who will be performing at Union. 1f you like to dance perform, work on production, or just socialize, then you qualify as a member. You don't have to dance to be in Dance Club (not\ do you have ·to be female). . This is the largest student orgat'llzation on campus , and, as it is said, the more, the merrier. There will be coffee, doughnuts, etc., FREE. ..

Page 6 OONOO:RDIENSIS, Mttrch 6, 1980 rou a.m us Registration Begins In Spring · Spring Term classes will begin at 8:30a.m. on Monday, March 31st. Student schedules will be distributed to college mailboxes prior to the begin- ning of classes. Stud'ents .who do not receive a copy of the1r class schedulewillbe able to secure a copy at the Alumni Gymnasium at 8:00 a.m. on the first day of classes. · Formal -registration and validation of I.D. cards will take place in the Gymnasium on Monday and Tuesday, March 31st and April 1st, from 8:30 to 11:30 a.m. and from 1:00 to 4:00 p.m. Students should report as follows: Last Name A-'E F-K L-R S-Z Report Monday morning Monday afternoon Tuesday morning Tuesday afternoon Students may report at a time other than above should classes interfere. · ·A late registration fee will not be assessed before April 4th. Registration will not be permitted if a student h~s not settled his spring term b1ll and any other outstanding in- debtedness to the College. The Business Office will handle late payment of term . bills and resolve billing problems at the Gymnasium. . Completion.of and changes m schedules will be handled at the Gymnasium from 8:30 a.m. to· 4:00 p.m., except !or the. noon hour. Friday, Aprtl 4th, ts the last day for making schedule adjustments. ..... \Pass-Fail\ requests may be filed during the first week of th~ term. The deadline is also Apnl 4th. £ RPI· And Union Skate For Charity You are invited to skate with the RPI and Union Hockey Teams for the benefit of Easter Seals on Stmday, March 9th at The Union College Achilles Rink in Schenectady. There will be 4 haurs of skating with refresh- ments served following the event. Entry forms are available at the RPI Fieldhouse, Union's Achilles Rink, both the RPI and Union Sigma Chi Fraternities, and by calling Easter Seals at 4344103. Prizes will be awarded based on most money raised and include a pass for 4 to Riyerside Patk in Agawam, Mass, dinners for 2 at area restaura.nts, . and gift certificates. First priZe for the person ·who raises the most money over $100 is a weekend for 2 at the Holiday Inn in Boston and tickets to a Red Sox: Game. . If at all possible please brmg your ~ledged money to Acbillea Rink this Sunday as thili is. supposed to be a . -preMpledge9 event. Sponsor Forms may be ob- tained at the Rink or from any Sigma Chi Brother. Fpr ·more information call the House - 382-9582. Your participation is both needed and welcome. April 6 Marks Awareness Week Sunday, April 6 -will mark ~he beginning of the annual JeWish Awareness Week Sponsore~ by the Union College Umted Jewish Appeal. ~s year . the focus of the week will be Israel: Her Life and Lifestyle~. Activities for the week will · include an Israeli Fair, and · Israeli movie, a \Kibbutz Night\ plus speakers and in- formation. United Jewish Appeal (U.J.A.) is a nonprofit, non- · disease. Therefore a condom is not useful protection in these drcrnnstances. Sexually transmitted diseases are the second unost common disease; a cold is the most common. For one _ out of every five women under twenty has gonorrhea. There .is aV.D._ . political organization ;wh~se · aim is to meet the humamtanan needs of Jewish people throughout the worl~. We a~e hoping through . th1s year s • campaign to provide education as well as a way for students to become directly involved in Israel's ongoing struggle for existence. ·epidemic confrontmg. o~r . society today. The only way th~s epidemic can be curbed 1s through proper treatment of and education about' the diseases. · W~ would welcome any input· · regarding this year's activities . and program and hope to see you on April 6. The Union College health cllnic now provides a service f?r its clients, which aids them m the diagnosis and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases. Gate~men Apply Starting_ March 9 Beginning the wee.k of ~arch STD's Are Prevalent.· 9 the- Gatesmen Society w1ll be • accepting application~ ~or Sincerely, Sharon Berliner- Box 422 Felici~ WHion-Bo:ic 1834. by DE DEE FIS~ER admission into the orgamzat10n What, you may ask, do people · • for the fall of 1980. This written transmit sexually other than · application will be one part ·Of pleasure? The an~wer to that · the selection process wh1ch ~as question is not obviOus, at least undergone revision and un~ not as obvious as it should~. · provement this year. Unfortunately many things What is the Gatesmen which are transmitted sexually Organization? Gatesm~n is ~n go ignored or undetected honorary society established m because sexually transmitted · to work in conjunction with the' diseases often l:tave litt~e or ~ 0 · Admissions Office. The prim~ry symptons, especially m their., - responsibility is to p_rovide women victims. · informative touts about the Two women -presented the campus --and. the Union ~x- facts myths and realities a}Jout perienc-e to prospective sexu~lly transmitted diseases students and their parents. (STD's) to Union College students '· on· Wednesday, February 27. Laura Stellato, a V.D. investigator from the Schenectady Health Clinic, and Nina Stacey, from Planned . Parenthood, educated and explained to · Union College students about sex].lally tran- smitted diseases. The women started their educational session by first passing out a test on vene~eal diseases. Some of the questions on the test could be answered easily, while other. questions required knowledge of .the material. A few of the questions can be cited as follows: \Most women don't notice symptoms of Gonorrhea, True or False,\ You can't have ~yphillis and gonorrhea at the same time, - True or False, \Sterility is a common result of untreated gonorrhea, True or False.\ But syphillis and gonorrhea were not the only S.T.D.'s discussed at this informative meeting. Dise~s.e~ such . as Herpes I~ VaglJlltls, Scabies, Crabs Venereal Warts, non- gonoc~ccal urethritis and pelvic inflammatory diseases were among the other topics discussed. The symptoms and · treatments for these diseases all differ. The only disease mentioned above which does not have a cure is 'Herpes II. ,. The only protection one ~an use to avoid contracting s. T .D.'s is to either refrain fr?m sex or to use a condom durmg foreplay and intercour~e. Washing directly after _ ~~­ tercourse can also help m _ preventing the transferral of V.D.Bilt syphilis sores or other sores that are not on the genitals can still transmit the ., Special : $25-$30 Perms - $5 off Due to its significance in the Admissions process, the position _requires a .sincere interest m representm~ the college community. It 1s felt that such an individual would be responsible, dependable, en- thusiastic and able to . com- municate well. Students who demonstrate these qual~ ties \Yill derive tremendous satisfaction from this position and wi~l find a . challenge in the comm1ttme':lt that is necessary to thts organization. These respo!l- sibilities ami challenges will facilitate new insights into the college experience, the Admissions . process and oneself. Applications may be picked . up at the Admissions Office in Old Gym_J:Iall next week. Sign · ups for in~erviews, whic~ will be held Sprmg term, will take place at this time. The Gatesmen Society \1980\ encourages all to apply! . Speech Class Presents Thomas A spoken version of Dylan Thomas' well known play \Under Milk WoOd\ will be presented by the Uni9n College stage speech class, lltlder t~e direction of guest artist Leila Blake, on Wednesday, March 12 in the College's Nott · M~morial Theatre. Per- formance time is a· p.m., and admission is free. Tho)llas' work, written originally for radio, tra.ces a day in the life of a small village. Closed Mon & Tues, Open Sat\. Violet -Stylists Student Discounts 1 Oo/o (new management) 774 Eastern Ave. 372-7311 Walkins on Fri · & Sat, 1 otherwise Appt. $4.50 & up .· 2 blks. up from Two Guys The 22 members of Blake's speech class will offer . their spoken interpretations of the narrative and character diaiogue, with an emphasis. on range and color of the votce. ''This is the first time that a speech group has done anything · so ambitious,\ Blake says. In addition to -teaching the first stage speech class offered at the CoUege, Blake, an awa~d winning Australian actress, ts the acting and voice coach for the Union Arts Department production of Chekhov's \The · Three Sisters,'' \being presented February 29 through March 8. Following the winter term ~t Union, Blake will one~ agam perform her internaho~a~ly acclaimed solo show \Femmme Plural\ at New York's Lincoln ~enter. Cutro And Nye Speak On Draft John Cutro, a physicist and former Department of Defense affiliate, and David Nye, a 'professor of American Studies, and others, will speak about · military resurgence, threat of nuclear war, the history of the draft, and conscientious o!J.. jection on Tuesday, March 11th at 7: 00 -in the second floor Carnegie Hall Conference room. Meeting is sponsored by the Ur.ion College Working Group of the Albany Peace Coalition. Rubella On The Rise Public health officials say they are concerned because the rate of Rubella (German measles), which has been linked to birth defects, has increased among those in the 20- 24 year old ag~ &rouJ?. Prevention immumzatlon ts available for suscepta·ble in- dividuals. ~For additional in- formation please stop by the Health Service behyeen the hours of 3 p.m. and 8 p.m. any Saturday or Sunday. 464 State St. we deliver LrHistoire du Soldat The second of three Music from Marlboro concerts to ~e held at Union College th1s season will be highlighted by a complete performanc.e of \L'Histoire du Soldat\ (The , Soldier's Tale} by Igor Stravinsky on Monday, Mar~h 10 in the College's Memonal Chapel. Concert time is 8 p.m. The program will also. feature Mendelssohn's ''Tr-io in C Minor'' for piano, violin, a~d cello. The three-part Mu.sJc from ·Marlboro seri~s, . wh1~h will conclude Aprrl 16,_Is sponsored by Union College and the Schenectady Museum. \L'Histoire du Soldat'' is one of the seminal works of the 20th century, written in 191~ at t~e beginnin.g . of ~travms.ky s NeoclassiCal penod~ It Is· a fusion of music and drama; the dramatic elements of the story will be narrated by baritone David Evitts, 'who has been a . soloist numerous times with the- . Boston Symphony Orchestra at Tanglewood. . . While Stravinsky's work IS easily accessible in recorded versions, it is rar-ely performed live because of the unusual instrumental combination it requires. In addition to the narrator, the SCQte calls. for violin, double bass, clarmet,. bassoon trumpet, ' trombone, and per~ussion. This is the fi~st timeinthe 15 years of the Umon College..Schenectady Museum chamber music series that \L'Histoire du Soldat'' is· being performed. In addition to Evitts, who h~s also appeared with the Detrmt., Milwaukee, Los Angeles, and Buffalo Symphony orchestras, performers for \L'Histoire du Soldat\ include: Julius Levine, double bass, who holds the distinction of having made four different · recordings of Schubert's \Trout Quintet\: David Krakauer, elarinetist, currently a master's degree Continued on page 7 Schenectady 374-1888 Friday, Saturday, Ge~berer. Need:ieman, ·Happy, Bee~, Hour, Brew, -Tuesda)! Sea-Thru .· Lunch, Quiche, -Crepes,. >Pub., Enioy , Thanks ... 0 can< Schc Leor Al a g Insti Sal: w forr Pri1 Mor H, has Na Ore .pho Ne' Sar Cit~ N me1 anc wb rec Syr E me wh at F onl onl bo1 pr~ joi1 in ' Lo Wi I we: An As Co pr cii ha in re F~ 30 di D1 ar cc of fo at ol fo gl st u T 71 B a a n

Continued from page 6 candidate at the Juilliard School .of Music, studying with Leon Russianoff; , Alexander Heller, bassoonist, a graduate. of the Curtis Institute, where he studied with Sal Schoenbach; Wilmer Wise, trumpet, a former faculty member at Princeton University and Morgan State College; Hobert Moir, trombonist, who has performeg with the Naumberg Symphony Orchestra, the Boston Sym- phony, the Boston Pops, and the New York City Ballet in Saratoga Springs and New York City; Neil Grover, percussionist, a member of the\ Boston Opera and Boston Pops orchestras who has also .performed and recorded with the Boston Symphony; and Bayla Keyes, violinist, a member of the Muir Quartet whieh is currently in residence at Yale University. Keyes, in addition to being the only woman in the group, is the only musician . to perform in both works which will be presented March 10. She will be joined in Mendelsso}Ul's \Trio - · in C Minor\ by pianist Thomas Lorango and cellist Peter Wile\y. Lorango, a Buffalo native, was winner of the 197·8 American Music Scholarship ·Association International Piano Competition. Wiley is currently principal cellist with the Cin- cinnati Symphony, a position he has held since age 19. Music from Marlboro, begun in 1965, is an extension of the renowned Marlboro· Music Festival in Vermont, now in its 30th year under the artistic direction of Rudolf Serkin. During the winter months, 25 artists in f(}ur groups tour the country, presenting a program of chamber music masterworks for varied combinations of voice and instruments that are not often heard in live per- formance. Concert tickets are $5 for the general public and $3 for students. They are available at the Schenectady Museum, Nott Terrace Heights (telephone 382- 7890 or 372-3651); Community Box Offices at Colonie Center and the Empire State Plaza; and at the door at 7 p.m. the night of the concert. Child Care Seminar March Jennifer Birckmayer, a child development and guidance specialist with - Cornell University's Cooperative Extension Service, will discuss child discipline at 7:~0 p.m. Thursday, March 13, at the Union College Day Care Center. The tenter is located on the Nott Street side of the College campus. Birckmayer's talk is spon- sored by the Day Care Center, Typing Service 65' per page Call Cheryl 399-7614 Between 7 a.m. & 9 p.m. CONOOimiENSIS, March 6, ~980 Page 7 roun am u the Niskayuna Cooperative Nursery Schqol, 'and a local babysitting cooperative. The program is free and open to the public, but persons ·who will be attending are asked to call the Center at 370-6195 (mornings) or Tania Durbak at 462-6008 ( evenings) . , Refreshments will be served. Honorary Dinrier For Morris The Union College Fulton- Montgomery Alumni Cluo wm host a reception and dinner in honor of C.ollege President Dr. · John S. Morris on Tuesday, March 25, at the Poplars Inn, Fultonville. The program will begin at 6 p.m. Reservations should be made by March 18 with event -chairman Pete.r K. Smith, 407 Seuth Market St., Johnstown. Morris, 54, was inaugurated sixteenth president of Union College in October, 1979, after a ten-month search. He is the former provost and dean of faculty at Colgate University. Enemark Named To Board Robert B. Enemark, co- founder and director of Electro Signal Lab., Inc, Rockland, Mass., and a research director of ADT, has been named to the newly-created Board ' of Advisors of Union College. The new board, a group of specialists, will provide expert assistance a.nd consulting services to the College's Board of Trustees. A 1950 Union graduate, Enemark was part of an engineering team that put Albany, New York, radio station WPTR into operation during his college years. A regist~rerl professional engineer, he is a member of various electronic, optical, and instrumentation societies. He developed the . first practical battery-operated, photo-electric smoke detector which was originally marketed under the Captain Kelly (Gillette) label. He holds more than 40 U.S. and Foreign patents. He and his wife Constance, have four children and reside in Duxbury, Mass. 11 Second'' Sex Program, To Be Held An \exploration and celebration\ of mother- daughter relationships will be offered in a day-long conference at Union College on Saturday, March 29. Cost of the program is $20 for one person ;;.nd $5 for each additional famil¥ memM ber. Registration begins at 8:30 a.m. Perhaps the most unique feature of the mother-daughter relationship -- which has received attention in recent years through such works as Naq.ey Friday's My Mother, My Self - is the potential for both disappointment and fulfilllllent which results when two members of the \second\ sex interact. This is one of the points that will be made by conference participantSusan D. Britain, assistant professor of psychology at Union. Since a woman tends to project her own image onto her daugpter, she will be more more empathetic, than .she could be with a son, Britain said. \\' As program moderator, Britain will lead a morning panel discussion entitled \Healthy Mathe~ and Daughter Relationships.'' Three wothers and their daughters will par- ticipate. In the afternoon, three generations of women will gather to discuss the impact of changing social values. Coordinated by Elizabeth Sachs, area children's creative writing instructor, and Lyn • Lifshin, nationally known poet, · the conference will also feature , • individual workshops on . . creativity and expression, sexuality and sexual com- munication,, and growing up · together and gaining in- dependence. Also, Ufshin will read from her collection of poetry about women entitled · \Tangled Vines,\ . The program will conclude with a music.al performance by local mother and daughter musicians. To register for the \Mothers and Daughters' conference, ot for more information, contact the College's Graduate Studies and Continuing Education tOf- fice, Wells .House, 12308 (telephone 37o-6288.) Creative Problem Solving. Works~op ( A day-long \Creative Problem Solving Workshop,\ designed to help . individuals analyze and deal with challenges in their work en- vironment, will be held at Union College from 8:30a.m. to 4 p.m., Tuesday, March 25. Course fee is $50. The workshop will be lead by area instructor and consultant Nancy L. Thornton. I:n addition to discussion of such general techniques as identification and definition of problems, and brainstorming, class par- ticipants will have an op- portunity to address their own specific work problems. Thornton, who has a B.A. from Lawrence University and an M.A. from Johns Hopkins University, has ten years teaching and consulting ex- perience in colleges and universities and in private industry. She has taught technical writing,. time manag-ement, applied creativity, and problem solving courses for the General Electric Co.; Power Technologies, Inc., of Schenectady; the Hospital Association of New York; and the _ State Office of General Services. · She is also teaching creative writing at Union this term. To register for Thornton's workshop, or for more in- formation, contact the College's Graduate Studies and Con- tinuing Education Office, Wells House, 1 Union Ave., Schenectady 12308 (telephone 370-6288). Taylor To Talk At Union Joseph Taylor of the University of Massachusetts will discuss \Gravitational Waves and the Binary Pulsar\ at 4:30p.m. Friday, March 7, at Union College. Taylor's talk,. sponsored by the College's-- Physics Depart- ment, will be held in Steinmetz 106. A reception will precede his lecture at 4 p.m. in Science and Engineering N303. ' says. strongly supports the existence of gravitational waves. That evidence includes time-of-arrival measurements of the pulses of an orbiting pulsar called PSR 1913+16. The public is , welcome to attend. WRUC Provides Draft J.nfo. WRUC-FM (90~0) is planning a \Draft Education\ day for sometime late Winter tenn or earlySpringferm. Included will be interviews with professors, students, and President Morris . WRUC will try to present an unbiased view concerning the pros and cons of Draft Registration and the actual Draft itself. Students who wish to have their opinions read over the air as editorials can drop them off at WRUCMFM in Carnegie Hall. Dudley Presents ' Fortuitously, 1980 is the year in which the Mrs. Edwin L. Rich Prize is to be awarded. Given every foilr years upon the recommendation of the-library department, the prize carries a stipend of $250.00. This year, the library faculty have decided to award the prize to the student · \ · library that best reflects \an educational policy that is comprehensive and hwnane ... (promoting) the full maturing of the student by. ·. .the · development of both character and intellect.\ (Student Life . Report, p.3). The following rules and procedures, therefore, will obtain for the awarding of ;the 1980 Mrs. Edwin L. Rich Prize: Mrs. Edwin L. Rich Prize \Awarded each fourth year · to the student who has built the best collection of books for use during college.'; For the 1980 Speaker March On Friday evening, March 14, 1980, at 8:15 p~m. there will be a meeting of the Friends of the Observatory at the headquarters 69 Union Avenue, Schenectady, New York. . priz~ the award is $250.00. 'I'he criteria are taken from the Student Life Report: \The collection should be ~om­ prehensive and humane. . - .promoting the development of both character and intellect.\ The speak~r will be Dr. Ralph Alpher, physicist at the General Electric Research and Development · Center in Schenectady. The title of his talk is \The Case of a Big-Bang Universe\. The description of the universe preferred today by most scientists is the \big- bang\ model. This model can deal with the observed properties of the universe without requiring any new assumptions about the laws of· nature. The talk will deal with the growing body of evidence for the big-bang view, including the basis of the model in an increasingly well-verified theory of gravitation, the origin of the chemical elements, particularly helium and · deuterium .. __ .in the early universe, and the· cosmic ·microwave radiation background. · A reception will follow the presentation and all are invited to attend. Library O-ffers Special Award Union College often has thought of itself as a liberal arts institution with several professional and preprofessional sequences. The liberal arts, however, with their goal of educating the human being to take his-her place in a civilized society, have been de- emphasized ~t Union College. .Kccording to the Report on Student Life and Student Affairs prepared for the February 1980 visit of the Middle States Cominission, the following ( p. 3) situation exists: \The · educational focus at Union is often narrow and ex- cessively preprofessional, emphasizes the accumulation of-. information, and is too oriented . toward the achievement of grades.\ Also, students \tend to be. . .mechanical in their approach to education, and disinclined to value their college years as a time for exploration and per- sonal growth.'' RULES 1. The library must comprise at least thirty-five books owned by the student and marked with his-her name or bookmark. 2. Paperbacks may be in- cluded, but college textbooks may not. 3. The contestant must submit to the Head Librarian, Jean- C. Pelletiere, a list of his-her books, together with a single page describing the aim and purpose of the collection. 4. The contestant must in- dicate ten other book;s he-she would like to own and why. 5. The deadline for sub- mission of list and description is March 31, 1980: This is the first day of spring term classes, thus allowing time for students to bring back books from their homes after break. • 6. Judging will take place April 1-7 at the Student's .residence. Philosophy Entries Requested The Philosophy Department wishes to announce that entries are now invited for the 1979-80 STERNFELD PRIZE com- petition. The prize is \awarded for the best original essay in philosophy by a member of the senior class.\ Authors need not be philosophy majors. All entries should be sub- . mitted pseudonymously, with the author's name in an ac- companying sealed envelope. Entries may be given to Ms. Windstone, Humanities 212, not later than March 21, 1980. The essays submitted will be judged by the faculty of the Philosophy Department, with the prize to be awarded on Prize day, April 26, 2980. Entries will be_returned on request. Passover Meals At Kosher Kitchen Tired of just eating matzoh on passover? Well come down and reserve a place at the Union College Kosher Kitchen for Passover meals. This special plan will provide kosher !food for Passover meals on April 3rd, 4th, 6th-8th and will cost $40.00. Reservations can be called in now to 370-6496 or 370- 6760. (During lWlch and dinner hours call 377-6496). ._. ________ ..... .,., critical, and at the same_ time Taylor will discuss ex- perimental evidence which he The faculty of Schaffer Library has been affected by the report cited. Meeting. on February 20, 1980, they discussed ways of ameliorating the situation as described. Please hurry and make your reservation by March 12th.

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, March 6, 1980 arts - culture -- . . Glee Club Cuts Disc 'f.he Union College Men's Glee Club would like to announce the release of their new album. The album will be available at the end of March and if @rdered before Spring Break will cost $4.95. After Spring Break the cost will be $5.95. Most of the songs are from Harvard's Festival of Men's Choruses; to which Union had the exclusive honor of being invited a second time. Members of the Glee Club feel that the singing on the album represents the best they have done. The songs included on the album cover a wide range in- cluding Renaissance songs, Madrig;:lls, Shubert songs. in- cluding ''Song's Written for Men's Voices\ American Folk songs, Traditional Irish songs (\Cockles and Mussels\) Negro Spirituals(\Mary Had a Baby'' and \E-ri-e Canal\) a -drinking song, and con-:- temporary music.. The Alma -Mater, recorded this past Fall, is also included on this albwn. The single of tpe Alma Mater is already played at Hockey Games ar.rd will be added to the selections 'On the Skellar Juke Box sometime this week. This album is not being sold simply to raise money. The Glee Club feels the album is something the whole campus can be proud of. More people are aware of itoff-campus than Qn campus and it is an achievement that should be given recognition by the campus community. The album. will be available in the bookstore to all students, prospective students,. and alumni, or can be ordered by using the form below. An ad- ditional note of interest · the album cover features. a photograph of the Nott Memorial. Chapin To Sing Next Term .----------·---- ..... ----~----a--~·----, I The Union College Men's Glee 1 l Club Albums at $4.95 per album. I - The Brothers of Phi Sigma Kappa are proud to announce their spring term charity project: HARRY CHAPIN in concert benefiting the Food Policy Center! The concert will occur at 7:30 on April 13 at Proctor's Theatre. Tickets will be sold in Carnegie Hall during the week from 1:00 to 3:00. Prices are $4.75 and $6.00 depending on the seat location. Tickets may also be bought by, contacting any Phi Sig Brother or calling 370-6835 or 370-6895. Harry Chapin burst on the sc-ene in 1972 with the album \Heads and Tails\ from which/ the single \Tax.i\ appeared to catapult into national prominence. For twenty weeks, that year, \Taxi\ was the most requested single on radio. Subsequent albums enhanced his reputation as a consistently good performer. -\Verities and Balderdash\ contained the. single, \Cats in the Cradle\ which became a No. 1 hit in 1975. Concert-goers and fans are well acquainted with other Chapin classics; Corey's Coming\ \30000 lbs of Ban- nanas;', \WOLD\, and many others. In 1974, Chapin founded World Hunger Year as a non-profit organ!zation dedicated to find- ing, solutions to World Hunger. From this the Food Policy Center evolved. The Food Policy Center is an organization wishing to make those in the developed. countries aware of the problems of starvation and suffering which affect people world-wide. In 1980 alone, Chapin will perform over 100 concerts to raise funds to combat hunger, perhaps the world's greatest problem today. The Brothers of Phi Sigma Kappa are proud to help Harry's effort in the capital district. Accompanying Harry will be his brother, Tom Chapin, wiriner of an Emmy Award in 1974. Tom was the host of the weekend show \Make a Wish\. He . now accompanies his brother on many concert tours. I I I 1 Name I ----~---------------------------------- I 1 College Address l I 'I I I l Total amount enclosed $ l J Return to Lorraine Marra in Student Activities. I ------------------------------~ ••First Person'' For International Show A book edited by Union College Associate Professor of English Frank Gado, entitled First Person, has been chosen to be part of an international literature exhibi,t aimed at prom?ting interest lil American books abroad. The Contemporary American Literature Book Exhibit, sponsored by the International Conununication Agency (for- merly the U.S. Information · Agency), will be shown in 24 countries in the next eight to 10 months. Included in the tour are India, Egypt, Israel, Hong Kong, the People's Republic of China, the Philippines, Por- tugal, Pakistan, the Soviet Union, Italy, Austria, and Ghana. At a number of stops, books in the exhibit will be donated to local university libraries. Subtitled Conversations on Writers & Writing, First Person was published by the Union College ·Press in 1973. The book is a · set of interviews with writers who span almost half a century of American fiction- Glenway Wescott, John Dos Passos, Robert Penn Warren, John Updiks, John Barth, and Robert Coover. In his in- troduction, Gado presents a survey of the five decades represented and offers in- formative and enlightening portraits of the six. authors. Writing in the scholarly journal Studia Neophilologica, reviewer Rolf Lunden called First ~erson, ''an essential contribution to the un- derstanding of twentieth cen- tury American fiction.\ Gado joined the Union College . faculty in 1963. He received his B.A. at Dartmouth in 1958, and his M.A. (1961) .and Ph.D. (1968) from Duke University. While Gado's major professional interest is American literature, he teaches such diverse subject.§ at Union as a film survey course, in- troduction to literary forms, the modern American novel, major American authors, the All!erican short story, and philosophical fiction. He has reviewed regularly for Studies in Short Fiction and has con~ tributed to the New Republic ---- -- and Studia Neophilologica. Gado is now completing 12 years of work on a book entitled The Passion of Ingmar Bergman, which will be published _by W.W. Norton of New York. He and his wife, Gunilla, have three children and reside at 1131 Adams Road, Schenectady. -- The Student Environmental Alliance will be having their last recycling run _of the term on_ Friday, March 7. ) J Everyone is invited to join us. Meet in front of the Main;tenance Bui I ding at 1: 00. I Berkshire Ballet at the Palace The Berkshire Ballet will present ''Petrouchka,'' its third major production of the season, on Saturday, March 15, at 8:00 p.m. at the Palace-Theatre in Albany. \Petrouchka\ is the story of three puppets, the Prima Ballerina, the Moor, and Petrouchka, the clown, who enact the classic human tragedy in a nineteenth century Russian carnival setting. Petrouchka is ballet's representation of the universal, comic-tragic character. He is a puppet with a human heart, .capable of human gesture and emotion but entrapped by the Charlatan who created him. Petrouchka comes alive only to be disbelieved by the world. Everyone laughs ~s Petrouchka falls in love with the beautiful dancer, loses her, and is slain by the Moor. Yet, ultimately Petrouchka wins by returning for the last laugh. \Petrouchka\ was first presented in 1911 in Paris by Diaghilev's Ballet Russes. With choreography by Michel Fokine, music by Stravinsky, and costumes and sets by Benois, · \Petrouchka\ represents a revolution in dance. The ballet is a com- bination of three great talents: the composer, choreographer, and artist, illustrating their importance and thus setting a standard for all theatr-ical artists to follow. The Berkshire Ballet's production will feature Francis Patrelle as PetrQuchka, Dawn Caccamo as the Prima Ballerina, Karl Condon as the Moor, and Ken Condon as one of the grooms. Two Berkshire Ballet dancers , from the Capital District will also appear in this production. Daphne Vitolins of Troy will be the nursemaid and Frankie Affrunti of Rensseraer will be the second groom. Sets for the Berkshire Ballet's production of \Petrouchka\ were designed by Robert M. Boland and co.stumes by Rita B. Watson. The Berkshire Ballet will also perform fQur concert pieces. The first two, which are premiere works, include \Quintessence choreography by Francis Patrelle, music by Tchaikovsky, and costumes by Rita B. Watson; and \Summer Night,\ choreography by Patricia Kinnifick, and music - by Vivaldi. The Company will complete the concert section of its program with ''Lyric Offering,\ choreography by Mary Margaret Giannone, music by Handel; and \Valse Fantaisie, !' choreography by George Balanchine and music by Mikhail-Glinka. Tickets for \Petrouchka\ are now on sale at the following .g locations:. lo £alace Theatre (Albany)- E 465-3334 ~ Record City Uncle Sam Mall 5 (Troy)-271-1294 . >- Colonie Center Community t: Box Office-458-753Q ~ Empire State Plaza Com~ ..... munity ~ox Office-473.:01'22 ~ Drome Sound (Schenectady)- ·346-6860 Just-A..Song (Albany)-434- 3400 This picture Is on sale as a poster .fn the Bookstore next week. cui Mu Next r Schenec1 Union ( will hos Fest-iva' MARLB The pi 66 by M· sky's \! rThe s, perform string e Soldat Stravim the ballt part in t in whie char act The I= p.m. i: Memori infortni: ('On tact Arts DE To rr the wo MUSfC a uniq place .J disting1 of our young' artist < normal to ex repertc cultiva music. Foun traord artists of om N

OONOORDIENSIS, March 6~ 1980 culture -. Music frotn Marlboro . ... Next 1Vlonday,._JV'Iarch 10, the schenecta<ty Museum and the Union College concert Series will host the Marlboro Music FesUval -- MUSIC FROM MARLBORO. The piano trio in C Minor OP 66 by Mendelssohn and Stravin- sky's \L'Histoire du Soldaten r The Soldiers Tale) will be performed by the wind and string ensemble. L'Histoire du Soldi'it (1918) is ,om~ of Stravinsky's works written for the ballet. A narrator is given a part in the presentation of a tale in whiCh animals are the key characters. The performance starts at 8 p.m. at the Union College Memorial Chapel. For further information on the performance contact Mrs. Hamilton in the Arts Department. highest eoncentration of artistic activity, of whatever kind, that takes place anywhere, anytifl1e in tile United States and possibly the world.!' The 1979- 1980 . MUSIC FROM MARLBORO concerts, now in their 15th Annivers11ry Season, offer a far wider audience a sample of the unusually varied instrumental and vocal programs and the spirit of music-making so characteristic of Marlboro. Twenty-six outs.tanding concert and chamber music artists are taking time from their regular winter activities to bring these distinctive programs to over fifty cities in the U.S. and Canada. · The last concert offered by the 1980 season of the Marlboro Music Festival will be on Wednesday, April 18 featuring music by Mozart, Dvorak and Mendelssohn. Marlboro Music Festival An Interview With Leila ~Blake: Page 9 To music lovers throughout the world, THE~ MARLBORO MUSiC FESTIVAL represents a unique musical gathering place for some -Of the most distinguished and gifted artists of our time. At Marlboro, the young virtuoso and the mature artist can get away from the~r normal routines and pressures to explore together new repertoire, exchang~ ideas and cultivate the art of chamber music. Visitin~ Professor of Voice and Diction Founded in 1951, this ex- traordinary community of artists has b_ecome., in the words of one critic, \perhaps the In the first of a series of in- terviews with members of the Arts Department faculty, Concordiensis talked with Leila Blake, Visiting Professor of Voice and Diction. Leila Blake Mitch's Maze Concordiensis: Before coming to Union, you had a long and fruitful career. Would you mind \listing it off\ for us? Leila Blake: I spent many, many years in the theatre, beginning my career in England with some work early on in my life as a professional actress in film, and working on the fringes of London theatre. In Australia, in Sydney, I was fortunate enough to become a director after a period of stage managem~nt, with a theatre called the Murcury, and spent two very rewarding years directing major people in Australia, and so I was able to develop my techniques as a director very young (I used to pretend to be older). I had periods,_ also, of stage management for larger theatres, while founding my own company for theatre-in-the- round, the very first in Australia. By the time I had reached my middle twenties, I was a very established director; I returned to England, and did a mupber of productions in English regional theatre, and three major ones in the West End of London-the production of Miss Julie; The Lyric Hammersmith; and Pinter's A Night Out, which I adapted from television to the theatre, at 'The Dublin Theatre Festival and the West End; and a rather interesting musical version of The Bluebird. I did a .great deal of television acting in those days. Also English repertory theatre, a bit of radio for the BBC, but it was only when I went back to Australia for the second time in 1964 that I decided that I would as it were, do my career\ the other way around\; having done direction first, I tried to become a major actress. Over a period of ten years, I worked v~ry hard and solidly in the the:I.tre playing leading roles- some of them in the commercial theatre, with very large, lengthly tours of Australia; and other, non-commercial ven- tures. The things which. stand out in my mind are Golde in Fiddler on the Roof; one of the three female roles in Last of the Red Hot Lovers (which was a long tour); A Severed Head, which was based on the novel by Iris Murdoch, when 1 played a rather strange anthropologist, directed by a rather fine actor, Hobert Bailey. I alsQ did a lot of non-commercial work; par- ticularly exciting was the Beckett Happy Days, a solo played for a woman buried in a mound; A Leonard Meltheme double bill; a Saul Bellow triple bill; Cockter's Human Voice; and Feugard's Hello and Goodbye. I did get a number of acting awards during those years; and by sheer per- serverence built up a star reputation in Australia. At that point I felt that if I ® 1918 MGM Inc G MGM t. • March 7-9 Fri - 10 Sat 1 Sun- 9& 11: 15 were going to emigrate to America (all of us actors want to work elsewhere if we can) it had to be then and there, so I had a period in England working in the theatre, and managed to migrate to the United States in 1975. Since then I worked on Broadway in Stoppard's Dirty Linen, which was a very interesting ex- perience for me; in television in Canada for the CBC; Off- Broadway, and Off-Off- Broadway. Last summer I was working in 'Tennessee Williams' Suddenly Last Summer, playing the co-lead, when I got a call from Barry Smith, and thought that I would like to do a spell of teaching, and in an American University, which was an ex- perience I'd never had; I'd taken my solo show, Feminine Plural to a number of univer- sities, or just given a master class, or else during my years of working in the theatre I'd taught summer school, private people and so on, but this was a new sort of challenge; and I accepted the job for one semester, and then two. C: What is your opinion of the theatre program here, both in relatjon to other curricula and to wl'tat you expected? LB: I think it's very fine, although it's small, and of course I'm taking the place of Charles Steckler who is on sabbatical, hut r know that he's a fine designer. I think that Barry Smith is an exceedingly committed and talented director, and brings a sense of love to the work he does which the students should appreciate very much-he's very thorough in his research and work ofi the play. I think that sometimes a student can benefit from a Continued on page fit March 12 Wed.-9& 11

Page 10 CONOORDIENSIS, March 6, 1980 Three Sisters A Su'ccess by PAUL GROSSMAN bring joy to her life despite her · unfulfHling marriage. Margaret Perkins plays the youngest sister, Irina, who sees· her future dreams .gradually slipping out of reach. / beautifully lit and constructed by TechniCal Director Daro Beninati and the Stagecraft Class, adds a dimension to the production equalled only by the stunning costumes designed by Sandy Beninati. Director Smith is to be congratulated for his success in courageously undertaking the difficult Chekhovian drama. A thoroughly enjoyable evening of fine theater is to be had this evening, as weU as Friday and Saturday evening in the Nott Memorial Theater. culture The weeks of rehearsing paid off, Three s;sters is a success. Enter the Nott Memorial Theater and you enter the world of the Prozorovs, the Three Sisters who are the creation of 'he mind of· Anton Chekhov. Chekhov forces his audience to absorb the'eomplexities of each of his characters, characters that have dimension, that say as much without words as they do with their author's graceful lines. Time, too, is a major constituent of Chekhov's work. He tries to reveal through his characters how time can only be handled as the · present because the past is gone and the futt,1re is always uncertain. Despite the comedy present in the work, the message in the Three Sisters is a serious one. Chekhov's characters endure loss after loss, always clinging to the hope that happiness will come as a result of their suf- fering. The characters endure and emerge victor-ious over the present, however uncertain they are about the future. Verna Lowe plays the oldest of the sisters, Olga. Olga serves as a stabilizing force for her sisters, but finds herself helplessly trapped,. head- mistress of the school in the small Russian town.· All three performances are particularly strong as they had to be in order to convey the complex sense of hope in the future that is so much a part of Chekhov's · drama. Joseph Millett gives a polished performance as the Baron, a part which calls for a wide range of emotion. Millett portrays his love for Irina as adeptly as his hate-pity for Captain Solony, well played by Steve Auerbach. A Unitary Experience What is certain is the total grasp of Chekhov's ideas that each of Union's actors present through the lines of their respective characters. -Credit must be given to director Barry Smith for instilling each of his actors with this clear un- derstanding of Chekhov. This understanding is evident in the fact that there is not a single weak performance in the entire production. The lines of each character, no matter how minor are delivered with the value and feeling that Chekhov deserves. The particularly strong performances by the three sisters are characteristic of the performances given by the rest of the cast. Sharon Rubin is Masha, the most contemplative sister who searches a way to The mean,. manipulating character of Natasha appeared to be effortlessly handled by Bambi Schlauch. Her husband, Andrey, is an excellent illustration of the suspended feeling of the Russian gentry at the turn of the century. Suporting roles are flawless, from the laughable character of the deaf Ferapont, played by Jeff Paige, to the matronly maid Anfisa, warmly portrayed by Demetra Pontisakos. While the rest of the cast also deserves accolades for their uniformly· solid .performanees, Totn Farrell has once again succeeded in instilling his character, Chebutykin, with all of the emotions his complex character calls for. Farrell transcends even this by executing his part with feeling and professionalism that illuminates the entire production. Ken Needleman's set, by ANDREA BOWERS Winter term in Schene<;tady seems to aggravate the student's syndrome of \cabin- fever.\ Though we would love an opportunity to quite simply \have a good time\ the effort is often quickly frustrated when our experience continually falls short of our hopes. After years of climbing up Lenox Road in icy, slushy weather, only to be packed into a hot steaming room with vats of punch or kegs, one begins to start s_aying, \No I don't want to do that again.\ Well then, what are the other options? We can go to the Pub and spend money. Th~n, disillusionment sets in--why does simple diversion have to be such an effort-or a burden on our wallets? Last Saturday night the Social Committee offered the campus a real alternative in their concert- party. Rumor had it that \the Units\ were a new wave group. People then weeded themselves out according to their established A Pictorial History Francis A. Poulin,. a long-time Schenectady resident and friend of Union College, presented the College today (Monday, Feb. 25) with a complete photographic record of the campus in honor of Union's 185th anniversary. Calling the photographs \Promenading at Historic Union College,\ Poulin presented them to Dr. Jack L. Maranville, director of public relations and assistant to the president, and Jean C. Pelletiere, director of Schaffer Library. Maranville and Pelletiere accepted the gift on behalf of College President Dr. John S. Morris, who is meeting with alumni in Florida this week. \Promenading at Historic Union College\ is divided into six volumes, and \each volume is a complete walk in itself,\ Poulin said. There is one book, for example, devoted to the 20 acres known as Jackson's Garden, and another which records more than 7,200 feet of scenery around the perimeter of the 100-acre campus. In all, the gift is comprised of 1,850 black and white photographs on 272 pages. All pf the photographs in \Promenading at Historic trnion College\ were taken in 1978; shortly after Poulin conceived the idea and received the approval of College ofM ficials. \These volumes are given to Union College as a permanent record of the campus at a given time, with . . the hope that in future years others may add to the collec- tion,\ Poulin said. Poulin's association with Union College goes back to the early 1930's, when, as a junior high school student in Schenectady, he wrote a short paper on the history of the College's Nott Memorial. The superintendent of schools at that time, Dr. Harry J. Linton, took an interest in Poulin's project and introduced the youngster to College President Dr. Frank Parker Day. It was also at this time that Poulin began using the College library for historical research, an in- terest he continues to pursue. Poulin has lived in the Mont Pleasant area since 1921. He was formerly employed by the New York Central Railroad and the American Locomotive Company and retired in March 1979 from the State DeiJJrtment of Motor Vehicles. He is a member of the City of Schenectady Histodc Preservation Commission, the Schenectady Historical Society, the Schoharie Historical Society, and the Vermont Historical Society. He is also a member of the National Railway Historical Society and is histt:Jrian for the Mont Pleasant Reformed Church. Union Coliege was the first college to be chartered by the Board of Regents of the State of New York, receiving that honor on Feb. 25, 1795. Albany Med School ME 700 March 7 7:30 & 9:45 $1 w/ UColl LD. $1.50 w/o 1.0. music preferences. Soq1e decided they had no inclination to attend the new-wave band party; others wandered up and bought their tickets at the door which greatly contributed to the Social Committee's success in maximizing attendence. When the band folded up around 1:30 a.m., after having played since 9:30, there was the indisputable feeling that the party was truly a success. Wny was it a success than? Perhaps it was just the right set of circu:nstances. Too often, both party .planners and at- tenders believe that a \good time\ is proportional to the amount of money invested in an event. More often, a party can be successfursimply because of a few basic components. In the case of last Saturday's party, the right components must have been there ... The Old Chapel was an ideal location. It is spacious enougll\ to hold a moderately-sized crowd yet still enables a party to retain a degree of intimacy. At one end of the room, a band can be situated so that there is a large area for dancing directly in front 0f them. The size of the dance floor can extend all the way to the other end of the room depending on the number of enthusiasts. Around the sides of the room, spectators can sit, drink beer and watch the party unfold. The. Units provided excellent music. They are a new-wave band though I would venture to say that as a prerequisite for enjoying this party' one did not have to be a new-wave freak. The Units played xp.any of their own works including, Japan I'm Sorry, and Volts yet als~ played several selections from Talking Heads, The R6lling Stones and Blondie. The lead singer, 3' rather slight, blond- haired woman kept her audience's attention for four straight hours in her constant motion .-across the stage. Dressed in tights, shorts, a shirt blazer and high-top Pro-Keds, sh~provided not only music but also an act. At a price of $2.00, the Social Committee offered four hours of tremendous dancing plus free beer on tap-these are pretty basic components. It was evident that the Social Com- mittee was truly interested in providing a \good party\ for the campus--aod the campus responded. ' - 1st Act: Eric Ruben . 2nd Act: Lynda Castrucci MC: Bill DeConza I March 14 Albany Med School ME 700 8:00 p.m. I $1.00 w/ UColl 1.0. \ $1.50 w/o I.D. ar1 v Conti smaller be lost maybe going o: work : universi the two.· with. h casts; o more :s should l but I th Natural departn leaving work I voice te chosen; more d: been ve by -the C: U1 voukn< difficul tation : due to MountE steps c taken, Dep_ar· commt situatic LB: portan' drama work, Arts D my tat Depar1 give it natura shows everyc produ< standa can gi· A lor lunch: mid to waiter ignore of an can s longer \(We waiter his lef tums· in stan other. ''Sii uncau \ft - r~ s· E \'

f f ., .. .r 1, 0 n g d 1- r ,r Lt ) . :t 5, It ll )£ 'e y .S l- n If lS - - OONOORDIE:NSIS, March 6, 1980 arts .. culture ' Visiting Professor Leila Blake Continued from page 9 smaller program, rather than be lost in a mora.ss of work, maybe not of high standard going on. In telatien· to other work I've seen in other uni:xersities ft' s very good, and the two plays I've been i,~volved with. have reasonably large casts; of course there should be more student ''activity, which should be initiated by students, but I think it's a good program. Naturally, I'd like ,to see a department of voice here, (I'm leaving some tapes behind ef work I've done) but then, a voice teacher must be carefully chosen; otherwise it might do more damage than good. I have. been very pleasantly impressed by the theatre program. C: Union College Theatre, as you know, is undergoing a very difficult time, both in repur- tation and otherwise, partially · due to the dissolving o~- the Mountebanks last year. What steps do you think shauld be taken, both by- the Arts Department and the Union community' to help rectify the situation? · LB : I do think that it is im- portant that you have a student drama group. They. should· work, not against but with the Arts Department. I know from my talks with people in the Arts Department that they would give it support and, I think,that naturally-, student-orientated shows would be of interest to everyone, butr you need also productions of the full high- standard that a faculty director can give. However, I wcmld say that you must have student activity g9ing on: directing- you need a:n alternative theatre to the Nott. You need a space, a flexible \black box\ the kind that we have many, many of Off-Off•Bv(llidway, where you can change your styles of staging. It doesn't really matter if it doesn't seat too many people, and you used to have one in Carnagie which·has been dismantled.· I believe that students should create a space for themselves, workQin it, and also get budgeting help ,and advice, techni'Cally, from the _ Arts Department. The two groups · should' werk hand in hand, but you do need ex- periemntal plays, and so on and I think that, nevertheless, with or without student orientated programs, students should support the main play, and should be proud of what plays are going on. You should use the facilities of1he Nott auditorium more; you should talk to the Technical Director, Daro Beninati, and I'm sure he will make s.pace available to students. As a program, of course it means more faculty members when there's more money available, but better to have quality, as you have in Barry Smith and- Charles Steckler, and the occasional guest, rather than poor quan- tity. I think it's a question of the students' committing them- selves more t,o the theatre. C: Currently you are working on the production of The Three Sisters, by Anton Chekov, being performed in the Nott. Could Short Joke A lone dwart is sitting down to lunch at Sarde's, a fashionable midtown. restaurant... His waiter, a burly Slav, cruelly ignores him for the better part i)f an hour. Finally, the dwarf can stand the behaviour no longer. ''Waiter! Waiter!\ The waiter pauses; a diet salad in his left hand rattles slightly. He tums toward the dwarf. For an instant, they glower at each other. ·'Sir?\ inquires the Slav uncautiously. \fhave been sitting here for o'ver an hour,\ beg·ins the dwarf ··I. . . \ The waiter smiles. ''I'm sorry, sir. I must not have seen you. May I take your order'?\ Embarassed, the dwarf mutters something under his breath, rises and leaves the restaurant. . Several hours later, Sarde's is sold to an :A.rab businessman, who fires the Slav because \he has too much facial hair.'' The Slav is dispondent. \But •• he remarks happily, \at least I'm not a dwarf.\ Union College Dept. of Philosqphy Friday Afternoon Semina~:. PROFESSOR MARTIN BUNZL of Rutgers University will present a paper on causation and the social sciences entitled . SOCIAL KINDS Friday, March 7, 1980 -3.: 30p.m. Humanities 213 Refreshments and informal discussion will follow in the Humanities Faculty Lounge. All are invited to att~nd. ATTENTION!! There will be a MANDATORY yearbook meeting of all staff and anyone interested in becoming staff on Thursday night (tonight) March 6, at 7:30 in the yearbook room _which is located on 4th fl. Carnegie. Anyone unable to attend must contact Donna G. (6785) or Lynn SoUeich (374- 4509) in order to be offici-ally considered a staff member. The meeting will be super short due to the rapidly-approaching bummer k1'iown as finals wee:k. If you are interested tllere are many openings in positions of responsibility - so please get in touch. Thanks - The Editors. Counselors, general, specialists, experienced. 37 Jewish resident camps, Northeast. Good Salaries. College work- study available. Assodatior.~ of Jewish Sponsored Carnps, 130 . East 59th St., New York City 10022, {212) 751-0478. Phone or Write to A. Mel.zer, M~ Goldberger, yau give us some views QJI the play? LB: Some of the cast of the play I have :been fortW1ate to have in speech classes for two terms, and some I've had in -Acting and Speech, so that I'm familiar witha number of them, and it's very ;pleasurable to see- Verna Lowe, and Sharon Rubin, and Tom Farrell, those three people who are particularly keen on theatre as a careet, to see their de:velopment vocally, and their understanding of acting techniques which I've tried to help them with. I con- sider the work of the entire cast ofavery high standard; Bambi Schlauch, for instance, has come on tremendously in this play. I would say that it is also interesting to see a young man like Jeff Paige ·playing a smaller role extremely well. I was able to have private sessions witJ:r aU the actors, with the exception of Joe Millett, who has come back. Joe, of course, is a much more experienced actor and I've only had to give him the odd pointer about speech, but he's giving a very fine performance. Those that I was able to work with on the script, I think, have paid off. The difficulty with any classic play is that you have to in- terpret it so finely; SIR Lawrence Olivier says that the classics sbout '!more, more, , more\ at the actor. I feel that there .has been an enormous development in work this term. The standard of the production I and I'm tr:ying to be objective about it) is as high as ~my I've seen in any university in all my travels-that includes England, America,' Canada, and A,ustraUa-andthat includes, for instance, on one occasion I was at Melbourne University and saw a production tpat wasn't nearly on a par with this, and that is a large university. So I would say that certainly the work is on a high caliber. As to the play itself, it's one of the great classics. Chekov must be recognized by students as one -of the most important writers and comternporary as today because he is writing about human verities, human problems, and the theme that runs through the three sisters of the desire to go to Moscow, to be other than what they are, is just as appiicable to any group of people living in any closed environment. I would say that it has been very well worth doing. C: If you could come back - next year, what would you like to see done here? LB: A nwnber of students have spoken to me abuut musicals, particularly Fiddler on the Roof. Having had the experience of playing in FidM dler, I think it is a fine musical, and would suit this college extremely well. Would like to see 1Jhem do it, or any major .musical that's not rubbishy. I think that they should attempt each year one classic play and one modern play and some student activity, experimental theatre perhaps. I'd like .to see a voice department here, but choice of voice teacher would haveto.bemade very carefully. I would like to see movement classes,. but movement very much linked to theatre activity and not just run separately. Play readings might be a good idea. 'They .give the students more opportunity to exercise their craft. Leila will be leaving Union after this term, and going to perform Feminine Plural at Lincoln Center on March 21 and 22. She said that there was a possibility that she would play in an Off-Broadway production this falL collegiate crossword ACROSS 1 French Aevolul•6\.HY leader 6 E nervat.es 10 Btow;::\I'V 14 Stageplay 19 Abn1ty to sav and do thE' r•ght·thang 21 D•str•butr land equally 24 BEGII\ININGO.F OGDEN NASH POEM 26 Was a cand a datE\ 27 Church proJeCt•Of' 28 Wolls 29 Sum total I abbr I 30 Moss Korbu t 32 Sexual dev•ate 34 Box•ng term 35 Fao thlul 36 PoE>t ----·- A.ret,no 38 --····SOUC• 39 Horne of the dead 42 Shakespeare catted •1 \'Cand;\' 43 M•ss·Bernhardr 44 ····•· Mar•an 45 D•ckens character 46 Doctor ···-·· (Crosby mus•ca I l 47 Fame 49 ~···-· Andron•cus 50 Constgn to death 5l _ _. ___ V•ctor 54 s·ov1et News Agency 55 Jack N1cholson ffiOVIe 60' Go ws refuge 62 Dromedary 63 Advtse 64 Span>sh gold 65 Clothed 6'6 Those whom others emulate· 6!1 Semtte 69 -··-··out !paraChutes I . 70 clil'ld f>lm star 71. T1ght. said of money 72 Italian W1ne·c1ry 73 Class of ftavo' exper~s 74 M.nter - 75 Postman's beat (abbr_) 76 Crav•ngs 77 Bntl5h .guns 78 Loud blast of trumP<!ti 79 Sale seeRers 82 Ship part !13 Dangerous drug 84 l:..esl1e Caron mov1e . 85 Attenders 86 Mad ...... 88 Walks pompously 91 Dens 92 HlpJOIOt q.1 Tw\1 11n1t !:'f measure [pi.l 97 Aboumjs w1th 98 Cather~ne and S1r Thomas 99 Leg part 100 ··----one's ...... ialertl 101 Grate 102 Cont1nent (abbr.) 103 S1lent scr.een star Mabel ----·- 105 Mounta•n range 106 Funct1on 107 ······the sky (infinitive form) 111 Musicai ilhale 113 Dim1nut1ve suffn< 114 MIDDLE OF ~c§'f~N NASH 118 Science of flymg 119 Raised decorations 120 Frame of m1nd ~ ~~~BM~~~SH~~~em~· 121 ENDDFOGDEN NASH POEM 122 Brona.up 123 Succmct DOWN 1 MISs Jackson 2 Mrs. Peel,e.g. 3 Decay 4 Grass-genus 5 T·oo much, m mustc 6 Workshop 1tems 7 Be oil 8 Fe~gn 9 Ed Norton'• work place Jtm-fi*,rf.T.I- 10 Electncal unit 11 TurkiSh t•tle 12 Ool f1lter brand 13 Band leader's dtrect,on·· 14 Same here 15 Stool-pigeons 16 Chem1cal sufh x 17 Mosque's tower 18 Angular diStance 1 n astronomy 19 Razor sharpeners 20 Un•te 22 Skat1ng floors 23 HIQh reQard 25 Suff1x one who does 31 Perfume· var. 33 Fruitless 35 Put me to the telt 37 Speakers 39 Mal•c•ous mall 40 Chd Is and fever 41 Calamlt1es 42 ------boy 44 Auto racmg great 45 \Prtde and P1e1u d1ce\ g<rls, e g 46 Know the ------ 48 Lako's son 49 F unct1onless ao::tlvot1es 50 Stainers 51 Heated argument 52 Card game !i3 Judge 55 Aspecl 56 End.ngs for young and old 57 Petta1mngto a crown 5B Blackboard essentials 59 Became temperate 61 \The Road to·----\ 62 Sucrose . - 66 I nd1an sect or l1sper's trousers 67 lfs partners 68 Arabtc letter 70 Moslem supernatural be•ng 71- Scorn 73 Cr~es 74 Hurl -,c ~ -• r v Ut:ld y:.. 78 · ----· Morgana 80 Sulk (colloq.} !11 Black Fr. 82 Makeup man 136 Celeste ...... 87 M•ss Hayworth 88 Lavers 89- Instructs 90 Beg1 n aga•n 91 He mou ms Sp 92 \ ... Back to Old V>rgmny·· 94 Newspape• otems 95 Plentifully supploed 96 Value 98 Polynesian lomcloth 99 Jaol 100 Most pecul>ar 1 02 New stars 103 Sports organ12atoon 104 Ct1bbage terrn (pl.} 107 Temporary dwelling HJ8 Suffix of the k•nd of 109 Cacllone source 1 10 Have, old style 112 H•ghest po1nt 115 S'amoan warr~or 116 Ph1hppone tree 117 Poet•c term

Page 12 OONCORDIENSIB~ Jt:areh 6~ 1980 - classifiet>s PLACEMENT Attention: :ni(Jlogy Majors .. and-or evenings. Please call Janet Mastroianni at 372.,9844 after 5:30-8:00 p.m. B'-'L'LETIN BOARD An ad hoc committee has been established to evaluate the tenure candidacy of Harry · Marten, Assistant Professor of English. Persons wishing to contribute · to the evaluation should contact any 0f the· committee: Apartment needed for spring term. Please call Tammy Scott at 372•9008. FOUND: One money clip in SkeHar. Call 370-2570 and describe. Fi~m up your figure: Do your heart a favor! Sign up now! Aerobic Dancing-Alwnni Gym- -Monday and Wednesday-12:30- 1: 30; Tuesday evening and Thursday evening, 7-8 p.m. Classes start the week of April 7th. 370-2662. Sponsore-d by the League of Women Voters. PERSONALS ·Robin J .-Who never says stop? Dan (p.p,.)-did you teach Robin how to use an E.M .. yet? J .E .B.--Happy Birthday. 'E.H.v.D. & S.E~S.' R.J .K,. ls a re'&i~t~red . copywrrte<l set of tmtlals. Imposters cut it out. P.A.C.-Happ¥-Birthday (This might get to, you by then} See above . P.S.I\..-~Friday Skellar run!!! Barvsh-NOW!--yttle Sprout · L.S. · J.S·.-Happy_ Birthday P.L.R. · · Kristine--Happy 21St Bir- J.B.~Youdidn't sriore. Happy Birthday! Love, E. Department of Riology and the Placement a.nd Career Resources are l'.ointly sub- scribing to Federal Jobs in the Life Sciences. The Federal Government is :the largest single employer of ·individuals with undergr.ad\l.ate training in biology. Federal Jobs in the Ufe Sciences is pi.i.blished twice monthly from Washington, D.C. Come to PCR and cbeck job vacancy list periodically. Profes·sor William Murphy, Department GJ English; Professor James\' Underwood, Department of Political Science; Professor Anton Warde, Department of Modern Languages; Professor William Stone, Department of Mathematics, Chairman. Anyone interested in··playing thday, Lo:ve Michael and Pam on the \Big Red Machine\ Co-. ' Rec Softball team this spring please leave your name, box number and phone number in Box 1236. Red heads 0nly please. P.C.--Can we offer congratulations?! University· Pl. our 942 Attention: Junior Mechanical Engineering Majors: Water- vliet Arsenal is sponsoring Federal Smulller Internship Program for student trainees in. mechanical and Jndustrial engineering. Cone to PCR for applications. Deadline: March 10, 1980. The Soho News: announces its new Summer Internship Program in New York City. It is a good opp()rtunity for those interested iii journalism and publishing. T'o apply, contact: Jim Spanfeller at the Soho News, 514 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 1{)012. (212) 431-3150. Central .Hudson Gas & Electric Corp., Poughkeepsie, N.Y., is interested in EE's, ME's, and Math Majors for • Transmission and Distribution, ~ Production, Engineering, Data · Processing. TbE!y will be on <Campus on March 13. You can . come in apd s~gn up at any time. Capital Distr·ict Student Research Forum-Wednesday, March 19, 1980, 9:'30 a.m.-4: 15 p.m., Albany Medical College, New Scotland Ave.; ME-700. Presented by graduate students in the life sciences. Sponsored by Hudson-Mohawk Association of Colleges and Universities. 1980 host-Albany Medical College Graduate Student Organization. To all those interested in being an orientation advisor: Ne~ded urgently: A mattress. Contact Cindy, 6869. Anyone interested in taking dver the New . York , Times franchise ·next year, please contact David Siegel at 372.;s593, The position is very lucrative and is not time consuming. Prof. Weinberg has opened his Sculpture class to admit all those students who are in- terested. Cards may be ob- tained in the Arts Office, Rm. . 205. Volunteers needed fClr Orientation Advisor ap- plications will be available in ' Student ·Activities Office starting Tuesday, March 10, 1980. Applications will be due first week of spring term. . , Municipal Housing Elections on 1 March 25th, Primary Day. Anyone interested in working for Public Housing please. call Norton C()mpany, Coated Abrasive Division, Troy, N.Y., 1'1:!~~ will be recruiting on campus on March 10. Please check office for further information. Please check your signups to make sure you k~ep your ap- pointments. Please let us know about your (){fers. Attention: Juaior Liberal Arts Majors: l\1pbil Oil Cor- }(,9 y sr. poration S\lmmer Internship 11 Program: M<>bil Oil Cor- O'E C..-r\1 1 \_\'TUC\ QN·f' -t'..! poration ann<)unces their f' ~ • · I. I n~ · I:. _.I' Summer Internship Program in \T\O• .. r t..I'\I\:O'f{AI~C,t\ El\J£C fADi( its Public Relations -Depart- .J,;1 \ N ' · · I Y . ment: fNO!IfAI B D.S~!liDS Place: NewYorkCity. Time: GRtAf\ PJPE'SrAtC£5SORJE$ Mid-June-Labor Day. Salary: S \1 $220 per week. Requirements: CL01t/Jf{G& flV£R JEW'EL~t t~~~o:~o:~~ strong liberal arts sEE: . US SO O ~,. * Please bring your resume and l \« a 1ettet o.f application to lt.llll!l!!!l'--'-~~•~----.----..------. Yungwha Min at the Placement and Career Resources. Due date: April 1, 1960. Chuck M.archand '80, last year's Mobil intern, will hold an information session· on Tuesday, Aptril 1 at4:30 p.m. at PCR. For furfher information, contact Chnck. Marchand or Yungwha Min~ Lt. Col. :Mike Jezior, Army Corps of EBgineers, will be on campus on Friday, March 7, to speak to the Civil Engineering class in the Al\1. ·We have a sign- up sheet in Pl.acement for any CE, EE, or lWE, who would like to talk to Lt. CCll. Jezior on March 7 fro!Il 1:30-4:.30 p.m. You may sign up at any time in Placement. HELP WAI'JTED HELP WANTED: painting, scraping, yardwork during Spring break. Hard physical work, $4.50 per hour. Apply to Prof. Bruce R.eynolds, 372-1523, 370-6218. -------------- Help Wanted in Schenectady Area (Stat~ St.) in seasonal fast food and lee cream business beginning .Aptrll 1st thru the: summer mollths. Lunch hour Justa phone can away ... WlthOomino'1 Pina thenJ•e aeYOr the bather ofleewlllgthecomfomof .,._homo for a wbole• -• meal. Give us a call t.r ahet, ••\\\ w.III•W.g , Domlno'a Pi:ua. We'll ......... It .. r- ..... .ao minut.l or less wlttt _.....,...., c:fterte. We're ftllfWiber one in fast, ..... tlel...-y ...... iu&t. phone wU awayt '372•4441 OFF ANY P.URCHASE Gif Oomftto '• \'-• o...co .. onperplaaa • expires 3·16•80· the location &erving you: · tZ7 10n TERRACE 372-4441 Ste:ve-H:appy Bkthday! I love you. Sixteen (J) (J) Plus (M) (K) EQUALS Peter,Paws Plus Good - Luck! Margaret-'rhe moon must be going over!-Diane H.G.--We'll see you at Proctor's on April 13.-PSK J.C.-Happy one month. We made it this far simple and free. L&K Dear PLR, Expose yourself! Please! l! RJK In waiting. Hey Fe! I hear you are-and have no-! · Love,Z P. L. R.--Happy Birthday-- S.E.S. & E.R.v.D. . OYH~IItf~C THINGS. CO .. It ot lliiiOW$&. EOPENDOOR. 136 Jay Street Downtown Schenectady 346-2719 W.B.-Get psyched for week lO . ...,;Spry as a hen Salmon-The library is going to make you clean those walls- Alias · Greek Fiend·-Are you a ftiend?-None of the four whG went to lndian Ladder. Better Lead Than Dead-· Three and (me and still alive. Let'.S get a t-shirt. LUARN· WIJ .. I·I~IlNES~ ln the ruggEd mountains of Wyo- ming and Washington, · NOLS is teaching the essential skills of back-country living. arctic tundra and the grasslands of Kenya~IIast· Africa, NOLS students are learning the challenges of enjoying and ;...oco~';'\'• the wild' lands of the earth. .For fifteen years THE NATIONAL OUTDOOR LEADERSHIP SCHOOL has lra.ined wilderness leaders for most of the major outdoor programs ·in this country. Today, the uniq11e non-profit educational center offers over 30 dif- ferent backcountry courses which range in length !rom 2 weeks to 3 '12 ·' months . . If you want to LEARN WILDtRNESS this summer send for your free copy of the 1980 NOLS catalogue of courses. Wttte-:· NOLS Dept. J P,O. Box AA LANDER. WYO 82520 or call (307) 332-4381 At the.Rat Fri. Happy Hour 4-7 Pabst $1.00 pitchers, 25c drafts Also 9-close, S. Carter wants you to register for the draft - Matt's Draft that is - $1.()0 pitchers, 25c drafts. So don't dodge thi~ draft, cQme in and celebrate 100 days to graduation. Tues. ,Mystery Special Come to the SkeHar Mon. ' for a sneak prev.iew Friday Mar. l4 Happy Hour 4-7 ' 9rclose Molson Nite $1.75 pitcher, . . . so~ drafts Celebrate St Patty's Day with Green Beer. $1.00 ·pitchers , ~5~ drafts while they last - Kick Allah Michel madetn~ made th Marty three?--l Ron:' who doE Thew Florenc M&J: OKAY'? - RBS: get bac ~·-. Dem< why do Hey l you mE M-T even i notebo' To 1 hinky know 1 Sorr ~ c t t I Be tal c, Yo len it'! c If ye P.£ se w II VI c V1 ,~ p a Cl v

• ,, ft I d ' '· IS ~e tr 2 tg ;- a io 1-- ·e. ~e m ra ds a, ng nd th. 15! is fit IS of t, m. CONOORDIENSIS, MaTch 6, 1980 ' ' Page 13 Kick dow!l doors much?- Alhlh '· actually the bookstore ran out of . really ''sappy\ ones. The Bathroom Mailman Michelle: Little Mush who P.L.R.--You'll just have to made th.ee? Dost. thou kno~ who wait in line-! Captain Ned made thee? ... Marty: Are you one. of the three?--Mel Ron: WoFk much?--From one who doesn't. Thew: How does fall i.n Florence sound?-Me . M&J: Enough is enough,· OKAY?-Mel - RBS: Stop reading this and get back to work! Demo: Eat some more pizza, why don't you! -Melo Harry A., Irwin W.,-Happy birthday l ! ! - L.L.-Meet me at 714 Rorer St.! Dr. Luden T.N.-Have a nice vacation. See you in June. T. W. Dear Sweet, and Adorable- Congratulations:! Dr. M.?? - WhoElse J.W.-More, frn)re, mor~!!! D.S.·-It may not be enough, but it'H have 1ro do. K.J.R. Fred--I'rn glad your into Hey Mel-Whazza? Why don't . ·beastiality!-M.W. you mere? Pleeeeeze. M~Thanks for the personal, even if it was only in my notebook. IL Y To whom it may_ concern: hinky dinky· doo, r think y-ou know who you are. Sorry I' ran out of cards, _ Mr. 1.--Wann.a join the ASCE?? W.H.-·You wouldn't dare!. Would you?? H.W. Jane-Whatsa \nice\ girl like you doing in a bush like that?~ Continued from page .5 the Chrysler Corp., ·General Motors, Exxon, Westinghouse? 'Proctor and Gamble, Lev1 Strauss, Nestles, and American Motots. Manilla is a .former president of the New York Film Council aAd is currently an adjunct . assistant professor of film at New York University. The complete program for the documentary series includes Flaherty's ''Nanook of the North\ and \Man of Aran\ on April 11; w~he Triumph of the Will\ on April 18; \Tennage Father \ \No Lies,\ and ''The Day of the Killer Tornadoes\ on April 25; and \Coast to Coast in 48 Hours\ \There are Yachw at the B~ttom .of My Garden,'' \Paint and selected short subjects on May 2. To register for \The Documentary Film: From Then Til Now \ or for more in- formatio~, contact the College's Graduate Studies and Con- tinuing Education Office, Wells House. (telephone 370-6283) . ' . . Gradua-es: Computer Sci~nce • Acareer 1n c~nsulting opens the door to a future of extraordinary possi_bilities. ' Before you take a position with a large corpora.tion, take aminute to consider consulting Consider-· You get to work on a wide variety of projects (Averag length: 5 months) it's challenging, it's exciting, it's educational. Consider- If you like consulting, you'll keepondoin'g it. After a couple of years, you may find Ws not for you (this is possible, most p..eople love it, qut not everyone). Yol;l will have lea_r':'ed a lot, seen a lot, and be able. to make a11 Informed dec1s1on as to what your next career step should be. \ In a Consulting firm, you are part of the mainstream. Now we 1 d like you to Parent's Weekend April 25~ 26~ 27 * Coffeehouse $1 .00 -If Cabaret $1.50 . 1C Jimmy Dprsey B~nd $2.00 Tickets will be on sale . . the first week of Spring Term THE WOMEN'S NETWORK. invites all women to a cocktail party in honor of the women of the F acuity and Staff Friday, March 7 4 · 6 p.m .. Conference Room A Second Floor Carnegie \ (d) , -- . ' datronics We are coming to Albany- Take your choice- of the Albany or NYC metro area. We are a 4 year old Consulting firm with a technical staff of 150. We have an excellent reputation in the field and an im- pressive Jist of blue-chip clients. We work in a wide variety of applications and languages, on ,both large and· mini- computers. We offer the learning experience of *Varied Assignments , *In-house training *Tuition *Audio-visual courses *Extensive in-house I ibrary · .f 11 Hot-Hneu help by senior personnel. • We are owned and run by technicians and offer an excellent opportunity to learn and progress. If you are interested, submit your resume to: datronics, inc. 675 Thin:! Ave, New York, N.Y. 10017 An eqoal opportunity employer M-F \

Page 14 OONOORJJIENSlS} March 6) 1980 6porte A View From The ·Stand'S by DOl.JG SILVERSTEIN Another week has passed, and the playoffs have arrived. This will shorten my evaluations this week, much to your happiness. Syracuse and Maryland, winners of their conferences, lost their respective tour- naments, but received bids anyhow. I apoligize for the omission of Georgetown from last week's I summaries, and have included them in this week,'s I article. This week is dedicated to the Midwest and the West, two regions that are notably weaker than the East and Mideast. Only an overrated Louisville team has been touted as a viable competitor, but there are others who will be discussed. I must remiiid the readers that my breakdown is not consistent With the tour- nament breakdown, due to the fact that the breakdown was unpredictable. But I do hope that my analysis Will aide you while you watch the playoffs. If not, it makes for a nice placemat. EAST-Georgetown-like my article each week, this team is underrated and has received minimal publicity. But seriously, the backcourt of FToyd and Duren can · be ex- plosive, and Craig Shelton up front, though not comparable to Lonnie, is a bullwark per- former. They did beat Syracuse twice, and that is a monumental feat. They have gained the respect of the experts, now we'll have to acknowledge them. MIDWEST .-the weakest region by no doubt. It does feature-the Arkansas-big season for a new coach, is, also learrung a bit country, and still are intGp t~n. top guard in the country, school known for its football himself. They need J:abbar, Had that strange game, beating Darrell Griffith, and a group of skills. Players seem to come Wilkes, Goodrich and Nater. Stanford 18-16 · while im- teams that play with un- through in the important games Bri.gham Yollng-~Toronto plementing a ten minute stall. precedented tenacity. Somehow ' or the late moments, a sign of a Blue Jay second baseman- Guard Ray Blume and Mark or another, someone will come tournament team. Brad Friess, Danny Ainge is one of the. best Radford are the scorers for. the out on top and will receive a Scott Hastings and defensive guards in the country, and the \'Orange Express\. Re.spected ticket to the national cham- minded Keith Hilliard fonn a leader of this spirited ball club. coach. Ralph Miller claims they pionship~ solid crew of veterans: Mike Alan Taylor and Fred Roberts recruited the unknowns, who Louisville--a team that was up Young and U.S. Reed hit the were spectacular at times. They have become renowned. and down this year, beating a winning baskets in big games scored as a team 123 points Arizona State-battled Oregon tough Marquette team but against Texas Tech and Texas, against San Diego State, the State for the Pac-10 all year losing to Iona. However, Darrell respectively. A very solid final most ever against the Aztecs. long, The front line averages 6 Griffith can leap tall baskets for eight team. Devin Durant is a clutch shooter foot 10 ,fuches and is awesome. a single bound, and is spec- WEST-another strong region and another reason why thi:s The big \big\ man is Kurt tacular. Coach Denny Crwn, which features some ·of the club is so exciting even to read Nimphius. ·Guard Fat Lever who gained his 200th victory, more obscure and shocking about. Unlimited potential. pours out the assists t'o the front has to wonder if his all-world stories of the campaign. Who Was}lington State--big win courtmen. This team has been guard can do it alone. would think that UCLA would was a final season thriller rising steadily the past few Missouri--another team of not win twenty games. and against UCLA. Don Collins, a years .and has finall¥ received unknowns that has shocked the Oregon State would be ranked senior forward, had key games recognition. country. Best player is Steve as high as No, 2 in a season. But against UCLA artd USC. They Again, I must emphasize that Stipanovich who had an im- the ferocity of play in this hadn't beaten the Bruins in 14 my personal 'breakdown of the pressive game against a regged region contributes to the ex- years. Not much of a playoff teams was according to IowaStateteam. This team was citement and ability of each of competitor, but could be a geographic location, but the among the best in shooting the teams. Larry Brown's spoiler if 6 foot 11 inch Stuart NCAA handles the matter in a percentage in a region known jumpsuits will be a change from House can reproduce a 18 point modified sense. Still one. can for the other aspects of the John Woodens pinstripe suits. performance intwenty minutes. basically determine who are the game. Just a spoiler. Due to. the unusual alignment, Weber -state--They had a top teams in the nation. Iiere Texas A&M-won the SWC DePaul, Ohio State and winnmg streak of 18 _games, are my predictions: ·. with superb play from Dave Clemson will compete in the behind the strong shooting of Britton and Sequoian center Western Regional, making it Bruce Collins and David· Eastern , Regional-Syracuse Rudy Woods, who can be more tough that previously Johnson. They easily won the Mideast Regional-Indil;i'na dominating. They score a lot or anticipated. Big Sky conference, and Will be Midwest Regional--Notre very little, and the Aggies may UCLA-a favorite of mine that heard from at seasons end. Dame shock someone in the, tour- has not risen to the playilffs They had tough times against Western Regiorial-DePaul naments. since Bartow left. This team has Idaho and Boise State, which National Champion-Indiana Kansas State-hung around in the popular Kiki Vandewaghe does question their talent. the top twenty then faded into and Jamie Wilkes up front, and Coach Neil McCarthy has In defense 'Of my prediction, the pack. Roland Blackman, youngsters Cliff Pruitt, -Rod worked hard and is starting to one must realize that this is an who contends he's tlie best in Foster and Mike Sanders still receive the dividends. . impossible task, and the Los the Big Eight, is the leader. But learning. A year away, but a Oregon State--once were Angeles Rams are not corn- this team was less than possible sleeper. Larrv Brown, ranked as high as No. 2 in the peting. devastating in a very weak r------..----_:_----------:------------------------, conference and the Wildcats will probably watch the final four at home. soe off with this coupon (expires 3/31) Women's Hoop Carm's Restaurant Last Wednesday night the Dutchwomen opened the Union vs. RPI triple header with a 56- 48 win. RPI had placed fourth in the state tournament the previous weekend and was feeling overconfident as the Union women quickly ran up a 24-12lead: By the half, RPI had tied the game 32-32. The second half was a close battle with the Dutchwomen finally pulling away to win. Sheila O'Donnell tossed in 24 points to lead all -scorer.s. Sandi Key and Carol Wrenn each added 8 points . apiece. Sheila and Sandi came down with 6 rebounds apiece. The Dutchwomen ended their season last ~eekend with a trip to Smith College to play in the N1AC tournament. At noon on Friday the team tipped off against a very sharp shooting (70 percent from the floor) Williams team. The game was never close with the final score 28-75 in favor of Williams. At 5:30 that same afternoon the ·women faced a tough Amherst team. The game was much closer than the first, but the Dutchwomen could not pull to within less than 3 points and ended up on the short end of a 49-56 game. Patty Hamilton was high scorer for the Dutchwomen- tossing in 14 points and Sandi Key added 10 points. Sheila O'Donnell grabbed 14 rebounds while Sandi Key brought down 12. Although the women's record wasn't as impressive as it could have been, the team improved and is looking forward to next year. Thanks to all our fans for their support and for those that did not come, you missed the amazing ball handling~ abilities of Debbie Downey, the in- credible hustle of Carol Wrenn, the deadeye shooting of Dot Scarpinato, the quick passing of Brenda Hugick, the key steals by Natalie Stone, the quick hustle of Kirsten Peterson, the key shots by Anne Fitzmaill'ice, the amazing moves by Liz Miller, the quick thinking of Sue Hennessy, the all around playing by Sheila O'Donnell, the fantastic rebounding and inside moves by Patty Hamilton and (to coin a phrase from a former player) the tall talents of Sandi Key. Lyle's Hoag.ies 140 Erie Blvd. 372-3171 . 460 State St 370-2566 Buy 2 .. Get 1 free with colpon & Pizza 140 Free,man ~ridge Rd. Scotia, N.Y. 346-1471 346 1474 Special .New Offer. Full menu delivered to . your Union College door for only· 50¢ Hot & ·cold Subs Full Italian Dinners Dining Room Mon g Thurs - . 10 a.m. ~ midnite Fri- Sat - 10 o.m. - 2 a.m. Sun- noon - 11 p.m. Pizzas Delivery. Mon - Thurs --- . 4 P·l'!'l· - midnite Fd .. Sat-· . 10 a.m:- 2a.m. Sun - noon 11 p.m. As the perf arm~ co-winne for the l Week.\ junior pt sophom !\1eyer. BiB M season with a ,,utburst ~1ason l .former l past tl always share < fenseivE Mason scoring year le scorer: five g , were .a' defeate Bill ha< victory · Tuesd: output the ye and se· left wiJ going The Meyer winner Meyer three for l nume sophor winnet He Co left p Wall. Mov the or or not handc fense a shu game swere 2:53 n clear what sive Unior Bill Nicho theG with over J Mo: game pullet the gam1 rece stan' Marl .Jose] An de 1:35 As a tu with total on : rem, Jo the play 4 ye tenc llni1 Jan Jos1 12, 3.50 rat! aga \ tha sco on felt

I, 1 :e a ·e Jl 18 n, :m OS n- ,. ~: OONOORJJIENSIS, March 6, ~980 Page 15 5port5· Co-Athletes Of The Week As the result of two sterling perfarmances in the past week, co-winners have been chosen for the Miller '.:Athlete of the Week.\ The Co-recipients are junior puckster Bill Mason and sophomore swimmer Chris !\ieyer. Bill Mason concluded a fine season for the Hockey team with a phenomenal five goal uutburst in the season finale. :Y1ason has been a steady per- former for the Dutchmen for the past three years, and has always been involved in 3 good share of the Dutchmen's of- fenseive output. Last season Mason finished second i\n scoring to Mark Haley and this vear left winger was the top scorer for the Dutchmen. Bill's five goals against Cortland , were all Union needed as they defeated the Red Dragons 6·2. Bill had two goals in Union's 5-2 victory over New Haven last . Tuesday. TJ'le final week's output raised Mason's totals for the year to twenty-two goals and seventeen assists giving the left winger plenty of momentum going into his final year. The other recipient, Chris Meyer, is the only repeat winner of the award this year. Meyer has been swimming three events every meet for Union this year. On numerous occasions the s~phomoJ:.t has been a triple wmner. Hockey. • • Continued from page 16 left point was set up by Bill Wall. Moving into the final period the only question was whether or not Dave Josephson, who had handcuffed New Raven's of- fense for two periods would get a shutout in his last home game. The question was an- swered soon enough, for at the 2:53 mark Jim DiStephan drew clear for• a break and scored in what was the only real defen- sive lapse of the · game -by Union's defense. Bill Mason and Brad Nicholson added late goals for the Garnet who ended the game with a convincing 5-2 victory over playoff bound New Haven. Moments before the end ofthe game, Coach Charlie Morrison pulled his three seniors out of the game, their last home game, and all three· were received by well deserved standing ovations. Captain Mark Haley, Goalie Dave .Josephson, and left wing Sparky Anderson all left the game with 1:35 left in the final stanza. As Captain, Haley closed out a tumultuous career at Union with 10 goals and 20 assists for a total of 30 points. His leadership on and off the ice will be remembered for years ta come. Josephson, unquestionably the most improved Garnet player this year, capped off his 4 years with impeccable goal- tending, especially integral in Union's 10-5 Skein since early January. In this streak .Josephson won 9 games out of 12, with an average of under r 3.50. He ended the season with a rather impresslve 3.92 goals against_ average. ''Sparky\ Anderson is just that-sparky. Not known for his scoring, Anderson's presence on the ice, however, is always felt. Used especially in power Chris Meyer This past w~ek Union par- . ticipated in the New York State Swimming and Diving Championships at Rochester Institute of Technology. Meyer very admirably set three school records over the weekend. The most impressive record-setting performance came when Meyer brdke the school record for the 200 freestyle in his leg of the 800 freestyle relay. His time of 1:51.4 broke a record that had stood for sixteen years. Meyer's other records came in the 100 and 200 backstroke events. He was clocked in :57.6 in the 100 and 2:06.4 in the 200. In each case, he broke his own record, established last season. Bill Mason After two years Chris holds four Union records (also the 200 yard individual medley). Coach McGee's is very anxious to see what further accomplishment Meyer can achieve in his final two years. Special thanks to Miller for sponsoring the ''Athlete of the Week\ winners this term. / Recipients of th'e coveted award were Joe Card any and Joe Clinton from Varsity Basket- ball, Dave Josephson and Bill Mason from Varsity Hockey, Henry Wright from Indoor Track; Sandi Key and Carol Wrenn from • Women's Basketball, Matt Van Banthem from Wrestling and Chris Meyer from Swimming. plly and shorthand situations, Jim's all out play was the key to _many Union Victories. Hockey Wrap~Up Dutchmen Rout Cortland 6-2 The Union Skating Dutchmen, although failing to qualify fo~ a playoff berth, still closed their season on a positive note. They were victorious in their last four games. Including an impressive 6-2 victory over Cortland State last Saturday night. Saturday night was 'Bill 1Y1ason' night as the Dutchmen were led by a spectacular five 1 goal performance by the leading scorer Mason, who was responsible for the first Garnet hat trick of the campaign, ended the year with an im- pressive 22 goals. Scott Fitzgerald also tallied for the Dutchmen. The Garnet ,were in complete command throughout the contest, never 'relinquishing the lead. They outshot the Red Dragons of Cortland by a 48-34 margin. Cortland net minder Dave McDougall turned aside 42 Union attempts while -Dave Josephson, in his final ap- pearance between the Garnet pt>sts, slapped 32 Cortland shots. In a game marred by foul play and questioqable calls by two young refere-es~ ·eight players were ejected from the Contest in the final stanza and there were also 34 minor penalties. The Garnet ended their season with a 12-14-1 Division II log, a vast improvement from their 5-21 record the previous campaign. Seniors Mark Haley, Dave Josephson, and Jim Anderson appeared in their final game representing Union on Satm·day night at Cortland. by MATT KAYNE It. seems so long ago. It all began on November 3 of 1979 in a pre-season exhibition victory over O'ivision !Colgate. It ended with a 6-2 win over Cortland State. Last year, in its first year of inception, Coach Charlie Mortison's &kating Dutchmen ended their first campaign with a 5-21 log. Much improved this year, with the increment of 15 freshmen and bolstered goal tending from senior Dave Josephson, the Garnet closed out with a 12-14-1 record to narrowly miss the Division II ECAC playoffs, finishing in 9th place overall in Division II West. Looking back at the year, Coach Morrison had to be satisfied, very satisfied. Way back In November, Morrison was merely hoping that his team could muster up enough fire power to win 8 games. \There are eight games I can see .. winning,\ said Morrison,\ other than that, who knows?\ We could win one or two more, but I'm shooting for eight.\ As the season progressed, ~owever, and a~ the teams play unproved drastically, Morrison found himself expecting more. Just two weeks ago he stated \I think we've got a shot at 'the playoffs. If we can just win a couple more games against teams like Westfield State we're in business.\ ' Perhaps it w~s a case of too much, too late. For the Dut- chmen, who finished up the season winning 10 of their last 15 most assuredly deserved recognition as a playoff team. But the luck of the dice prevailed and North Adams State beat us out by inches. Well Charlie, so your team didn't make the playoffs. This was supposed to be our building year anyway, wasn't it? The team made great strides all season long. Led by the aforementioned Josephson in the nets, scoring leader Bill Mason, Captain Mark Haley, and talented and blossoming freshmen like Tod Fobare, Mickey Perras, Dan Beall, Brad Nicholson, Mark Bon, Scott Fitzgerald and Dan O'Neill ... it wasn't that bad after all. There were big wins too against playoff bound com- petition. Remember the shellacking of Middlebury. Remember defeating Division I · Colgate in a pre-season scrimmage. And continuing to /look on the positive side, remember some of the well played defeats, anyway, to teams- like Babson, Army, Merrimack, and Holy Cross. If there's one thing that your team proved, Charlie, it's that they can skate with any Division II calire r· team. • But let's eveh look a bit further into the hockey program this past year. In ter:rp.s of program growth it was an astounding year. For the first time at the school, a JV hockey team was established-a team from which the varsity squad could and did draft players. There was the International Coaching Session held at Achilles--a chance for the community as well as Union to learn from some of the best and most noted coaches in the world. There was also the First Annual \Go Garnet Go!• Night on Feb. 2, against Holy Cross, a game which was not only sold out, but standing room only tickets had to be printed for. There was television coverage of the team as well-five games in all. To put it succinctly, the entire hockey program now has its sights set._ .. it's moving in the right direction. The obvious question is where do we go from here? What will the team belike the next year and for the years to come? To Coach MmTison, the an- swer's simple. \We're loosing 3 fine players as seniors this year. We have to make up for these three and add a few more. Each year we should add a few freshmen to help round out the team. We've got a strong nucleus of freshmen to build upon now. As I see it we need 9 forwards 4-6 defensemen, and another goalie. If we can chip away at these spots, a little at a time each year, we should have a topnotch Division II team in a few years. The bottom line is this: any winning team has depth. We need some more depth. lp a couple of years, · using what we have now with what we attract to Union, we'll have the depth we need.\ It's a simple game plan, but it's just gotta work .. Using this strong nucleus of players now and adding new talent each year, the team should have quite a bit of depth. It's simple Charlie, and it'll work. ' Hats off to this year's achievements!! Sports Happenings I Indoor Track ,. March a~Union Invitational March 15- N.Y.X.C.T.F.A. Indoor Championship at R.'P.I.

Page 16 OONOORDlENSlS, March 6, 1980 sports l sf Winning Season Since '76: Hoopers End At 13-11 by MIKE CANNING Union's mens basketball team concluded its season on Saturday in Cortland and despite losing by a score of 80- 68, achieved its first winning record in four years. Earlier in the week, the Dutchmen not- ched their 13th victory of the year with a 75-61 romp over RPI. The loss at Cortland gave the Dutchmen a 13-11 final record, their best mark since the 17-6 record .of the 1976-76 team. Union took a-four point lead at halftime against RPI and never looked back as they shot 75 percent from the floor in the second half and coasted to a fourteen point victory. Joe Card.any led all scorers with 26 points and Joe Clinton chipped in with 18 points and 7 assists including a spectacular late game feed to Mike Canning. Jim McGhee was truly the chairman of the boards, hauling down 9 rebounds in only 18 minutes of play. Saturday, an emotionless Dutchmen team travelled to Cortland only to put in a lackluster performance in the season's finale. Union fell down by 11 points at halftime, 40-29, and despite cutting the lead to four points midway through the second period, eventually tired and lost by a score of 80-68. Their final performance was hardly indicative, however., of the inspired and tenacious play which was displayed throughout the season. Only an early season slump and a few close losses kept the Garnet from a truly outstanding record and a post season bid. Victories over Division II powerhouse Hart- wick and ECAC tournament teams Hamilton and Elmira highlighted the successful season. Joe Cardany was the teams most productive scorer, averaging over 20 points a game. This was the first season that a Union player has achieved this since all-time leading scorer Jim Tedisco averaged 21.4 points per game in 1972. Cardany was selected to the ECAC weekly team five times .over the season. Joe Clinton enjoyed a fine freshman campaign averaging over 10 points per contest. Clinton was the exception to the saying that the best thing about being a freshman is that you will become a sophomore. The flaming redhead led the team in assists and became the second highest scoring freshman in Union's history. The return of John \Count\ Montanile put a smile on Coach Bill Scanlon's face. The count was a terror on the backboards and led the team in rebounds. The rugged rebounder also utilized a delicate shooting touch to lead the team in field goal per- centage at 52 percent. John Jarosak and Jim McGhee rounded out the starting line-up. J arosak added to his school leading dunk total while McGhee joined up with Mon- tanile in picking clean the back- boards. McGhee was also . known for his flying drives to the basket as well as for picking up a foul or two. Although seniors K.R. Marshall and Chris Walsh will be graduating this year, the prospects for an even more successful season next year seem assured with the return of the starting five plus next year's soccer captain's John Krum and Mike Canning, J.V. Scoring machine Joe Rutnik, sharpshooting Jeff Peters, and powerful Bruce Jakiel. , - Coach and Captains: The easketball Dutchmen finished their season last week at 13-ll. Left to Right are captains John Mentinell, Joe Cardany and K.R. Marshall and Coach Bill Scanlon. Pucksters W-in Finale by MATT KAYNE and RICH DECKER Last- Monday night the 16 ECAC · Division II Hockey playoff teams were enumerated by league officials. ''There are eight over-all factors involved ~ in the picking and choosing procedures,~'· said Union College Athletic Director Richard Sakala, \Things like over-all record in Division II, winning percentage versus the top eight teams in each of the two wings of the Division, and severity of schedule as well as many other tangible and non- tangibles are added up into the final playoff tabulations.\ Before Monday, coming off of a Saturday night win at the hands of contending Westfield State, and a string of games since January in which the Garnet had been 10 and 5, the Dutchmen had hopes of making the playoffs. On Monday night the final verdict was handed down, however, and a somber Coach Charlie Morrison notified his team in the locker room at practice that they had finished 9th just behind North Adams State in the final standings. The top eight teams in each of the two wings of the Division make the playoffs. Oddly enough, the Dutchmen had beaten North Adams State more than convincingly, in a veritable Iaugher, 6-2 on January 8th. They had also- beaten other playoff bound teams as well~-Middlebury and Westfield to name two-and skated evenly against top notch contenders like Holy ~ross, Williams, and Elmira. So \Vhy had they not made the playoffs? That's what had to be ringing in the ears of the spirited Garnet a~ they took to the ice in their last home game of the 1979-80 season, playing New !:faven, a playoff team who finished in 8th place i,n tough Division II East. Sporting an impressive 12-7 record, New Haven was coming off of back to back losses, however, to two of the best teams Division II can offer-Bowdoin and Merrimack. . The Skating Dutchmen were coming off the heels of a 5-4 victory over Westfield State. Their log had been improved to 10-14-1, and considering their early season sloughing,. were a deceivingly strong team. ·· of a play-off position. \It's the luck of the dice. We'll get 'em next year,\ said a confident Charlie Morrison. If one game is any indication then Morrison's words will come true. Union put together sixty minutes of solid play to defeat New Haven,. 5-2, in a game which was never in doubt. Dominating play at both ends with strong fore and back checking, the Flying Dutchmen tallied on three power play opportunities and even managed a shorthanded goal as well. It takes a lot of pride to play your hardest on the ice after narrowly missing the playoffs, but that's just what the Dut- chmf;ln did. \I'm proud of the boys tonight. There was no let down after not making the playoffs. They went out there and took it like men and came here determined to win this evening.\ The game's first goal came off tbe stick of freshman speedster Dan O'Neill. The tally, a power play atte~pt, was a shot from the left corner which hit New Haven goalie Jim MeW a de on his right side and trickled into the net. Trackmen 2nd • 1n Cap Dist As the two teams prepared to meet in this contest there was much pre-game speculation. Just how good is a play-off team? Just how good is the Eastern wing of Division II as compared to the Western (Union's) wing? Just how good are the Skating Dutchmen? Did they indeed deserve to make post-season action? Then another freshman, Mickey Perras, put on a one man show moving down the right side, . decking defen- seman Dan Letourneau and jamming the puck into the net behind McWade. The Union track team finished second last Saturday in the Capital District Track Championships. RPI won the six team meet with 142 points, 15 points more than the Dut- chmen. The competition boiled down to the quality found on Union's 25 man team Qpposed to the quantity of RPI's 60 member squad. While the Dutchmen consistently had higher overall finishes then the Engineers, the Troy squad was able to score points by entering four or five contestants in each event. RPI's depth was most ap- parent in the weight events. RPI outscored Union by a combined score of 50-3 in the shotput and 35 lb. weight events to virtually lock up the meet before the track events had even begun. But Union refused to fold and steadily picked up points in the running events. Senior Mark N azon won the 50 meter hurdles in 7.1 with teammates. Tom Stegman and Garry Wells third and fourth. Ed Dingman and Darrel Logan placed third and fourth in the dash finals amfthe two mile relay team of Contois, Dellehunt, Vielkind, and McKienzie finished second in a seasonal best of 8:09.3. Union's Adam Licht and Jack Connor scored in the metric mile against a competitive field. Licht finished second with a time .of 4:02 while Connor recorded a personal best of 4:10 to finish fifth. Dennis Contois and Pete Vielkind also con- tributedsecond place finishes to the team scoring. Vielkind finished second in the 1000 m. while Contois was second in the half mile. \' The 500 m., however, proved to be Union's downfalL Although Dave Dellehunt, finished third, Union lost the services of team Ceiptain Matt Guilfoyle after he pulled a h.amstring muscle. Without the counted upon points by Guilfoyle, the Dutchmen's effort came up short and Union had to settle for second place. Several strong performance in the field events rounded out. the team scoring. Henry Wright scored a pair of victories in the jumps. Wright long jumped 21-7 and triple jumped 44-5 to win. Dave Cozzen won the high jump with a mark of 6-4 while Jimmy Zalucki finished second in the pole vault with a jump of 13-3. Freshman Dave Wallace cleared 12-6 in the vault to finish tied for third. After the meet, coach Chuck James expressed satisfaction with the team's performance, but feel that Union could have won. \Our distance rwmers did a real fine job, ~ut not having Eddie (Arnheiter) running really hurt us. If he's well for the Union Invitation it could make the difference,'' James said. James felt that the upcoming Union Invitation would be a real test for his team. The meet, now in its 24th y~ar, typica1ly brings together some of the top small schools in the East. James noted that 22-teams are entered for this year's meet. He felt that Mansfield College of Penn., RPI and Cortland State would be the pre-meet favorites, but James also believed that Union, Siena and Williams also had outside shots at the title. The Union Invitation gets underway this Saturday at noon, with the running events scheduled to begin at 2. TRACK NOTES: An organizational meeting of all individuals interested in par- ticipating in outdoor track will be held Tuesday March 11 at 7 p.m. in the field house. The first meet is scheduled for April 12 against RPI. If one game can answer questions like these, few who attended the game could Say that. the Garnet is not deservant Bill Mason tallied for his first goal of the evening, in yet another power play try at 1:41 of the middle stanza. The goal, an ice-hugging slapper from the Continued 9n page 15 captain· Mark Haley skated in his final game last week. Mark's hustle and fine play was a key Ingredient In the hoc;:key team's successful campaiSjn. r: <: ... s: • • - - M Th vote dete COlli repr The vote favc chal the unic Em Uni the con WOl ma hou foo me prt dri gn: gr1 wa ex] me: W<i Fi Jo th th or th vc cc vi tb pl a; A a V1 a f a t ' .( I

