1 Pr.oject engineer, Dan Wojaik (left), president John S. Morris and Athletic Director, Richard Sak~la break gr«;~und for new field on Daley Field last Friday afternoon. Student Forum Meets: Coli A $!-million all-weather playing field and track will be built over Daley Field, now the site of junior v ars~ty and women's soccer, junior varsity lacrosse games and varsity lacrosse practice, and in- tramurals. Part of the new field will extend into Alexander Field, where Union has played its football games for more than 65 years. The new field will be used for intercollegiate football, lacrosse, field hockey, soccer, and softball, as well as for in- tramural and recr-eational sports. The remainder of Discusses Asbestos, Clubs The Student Forum, in its Monday meeting, heard about the asbestos situation. The Student Affairs Council (SAC) met on Oct. 29 and also discussed the matter. Guests were Jack Hill, Director of the Physical Plant, and David Wollin, an . editor of Union frorn class to o'bserve the holidays. ''An idea might be to print a polic_y in the freshman hand- boolt/' stated Sheila Walsh, sophomore class represen- tative. Thomas D'Andrea, Vice President of Academic Affairs here, wants the Registrar to print the examination schedule earlier in order to benefit students in making their vacation plans. Views. ---·--- \Wollin spoke about the research done in· other schools about the ·asbestos problem,\ explained Vern Wetmore, senior class representative. \His main comment was that tests taken in dormitories and compared with federal stan- dards are misleading.\ Guidelines for feder:i'l regulations were set up only for E work places and not for places o of residence. According to Hill, if samples were ta.ken . in the spring and another will be taken in a couple of weeks. \They (physical Plant per- sonnel) are in contact With contractors and are . asking relative prices for the in- capsulation of the asbestos,\ stated Wetmore. \A recom- mendation goes before the Board of Trustees in December. Hopefully they_ can present bids and go ahead with what they decide this summer. Dor- mitories must be unoccupied for either procedure to take place.\ A problem facing the finance conunittee is the allocation of money to new clubs. \The finance committee allocates money for clubs and deals with a fixed income,\ explained Will Loyd, junior trustee. \A lot of clubs are being established; we must look closely at them and make a rule on guidelines, ... said Dave O'Connor, president. . It was mentioned that Dean of Students, Robert H. Kellett, wants a coordination .of events. The example given was a fraternity party and Nightclub hosted by the social committee, were held on the same night. \A lot of money goes to waste,\ said O'Connor. \He would like · to get the Interfraternity Council together so they lmow what's goingon, but at the same time, having no jurisdiction . over them.'' A final issue discussed was the policy of class attendance on religious holidays and the examination S·che{l ule. Presently, s~udents have been asking permission to be excused Chris Morrow fights for the ball against Rochester last Saturday. \ Soccer: ,Top ·Seed The Union soccer team was selected Monday as the top seed in the Upper New York State Eastern Collegiate Athletic Association (ECAC) post- season tournament. Not only is Union seeded first, but the Dutchmen will also host the two-day tournament here, at Garis Field. On:· Friday, Union will play fourth-seeded Hamilton at noon. Earlier in the season, Hamilton beat Union 3-1, at Clinton, N.Y. Also playing here Friday, at 2:30p.m. will be second-seeded Plattsburgh .and _.third-seeded St. Lawrence. The winners of each game will play for all the marbles Saturday at 1 p.m. This is the first time Union has hosted the tourn.ament since 1975, when the Dutchmen won it. Last se9son, Union was seeded second in the tour- nament and traveled to Hamilton, only to lose to Fredonia, 2-0, in the opening round . The Dutchmen hooters just missed a prestigious New York State NCAA post-season bid. Selech~d were Ithaca, Bingharnt9n, Clarkson and Buffalo State. Union's five losses during the reg_ular season killed their NCAA hopes, even in light of their clearly tougher schedule. However, the Dutchmen were selected as the alternate team at large, in case any of the selected squads are disqualified be_cause of ineligible players. November 6, 1980 Volume 110, Number 8 \ • ·ds Field Alexander Field will then be available for practices and for intramurals. Union President John S. Morris, in making the an- nouncement, said, \Many of our playing fields date from the time when·union was a much smaller, men's college. Our larger enrollment, our burgeoning women's sports program, and an increasingly vigorous intramural program make a facility like this an imperative. Athletic Director Richard Sakala said, \Basically wejust don't have the fields we need for the kind of heavy use we have. Besides our intercollegiate programs, we have some 40 outdoor intramural and recreational activities, and more than two-thirds of our ·students take part in some kind estimates that the surface will last at least 10 years. The College plans to set aside funds each year towards the eventual replacement of the field sur- face. The track will be six lanes, 400-meters with a surface of resilite (rubberized asphalt). New lights will be erected around the field and the stands now at Alexander Field will be temporarily relocated to the new field. Major funding for the field will come from the Bailey Fund, administered by the Board of Trustees. The fund was established by Frank Bailey, a member of Union's class of 1885, who served as College treasurer from 1901 until his death in 1953. Planning and design work were done by The Saratoga Associates, of \Our larger enrollment makes a fa~ility like this imperative.'' - Union President John S. Morris of athletic activity.\ The College's timetable calls for rough grading to start later this month. Trees and a sidewalk that separate the present Daley and Alexander Fields will be removed and the two fields graded. Further site work will be done in the spring of 1981, the asphalt base for the playing field will be put down in late spring, and the all-weather surface itself installed next swruner. The College expects the field to be ready for use by September, 1981. The College has not made a choice of playing field surface and is considering AstroTurf, made by Monsanto, and SuperTurf, made by SuperTurf International of Texas. Sakala Saratoga Springs. The College has been reviewing its athletic facilities for several years. A student- faculty-administration task force concluded in one report, that the athletic fields were \in critical need of being replaced, added to, or upgraded.\ Another report on athletic facilities, prepared early this year, noted that there actually has been a reduction in the number o£ playing fields at Union since the 1950's. At that time, there were four: Achilles, Alexander, Daley, and Garis. Only the first two, however, had been specifically designed and built for athletics. The College added new dormitories in the late 1960's at the site of Achilles Field. Plan for new outdoor athletic facilities.

Page 2 --Editorial-- Money Minding With student activities budgets for this year cut by 10 percent, it's clear that all persons and organizations affected are going to have to bite the bullet and face some hard realities--namely that they just won't have as much money as they would like. This fact points out the necessity for financial responsibility in using activities fwlds. It's really not appropriate, therefore, to blame the Student Forum for making these cuts; they're simply trying to make the $200,000or so in these funds go as far as it can. The general rise in prices, of course, is part of the reason for the cut. Whlle the annual activity fee charged each student has remained at $99 for the past three academic years. the cost of living has jumped something like 56 percent. (For this reason, we support an increase in the activity fee as soon as possible.) But the dollar's reduced buying power in no way excuses those student-funded organizations that spend their money irresponsibly. We're told that one of the prime reasons the budget cuts were made was to raise the amount of money in the ·activities budget ''contingency fund'' from about $10,000, where it stood last year, to about $19,000. This rnoney is set aside to fund groups that have not yet received money--either because they are orgaiiized during the year or because of some allocation oversight when the budgets were approved, on Oct. 27 this year. This rationale is sound, and we agree with it. Worthy activities shouldn't be stymied just because-· no fault of their own--there's nothing left in the tiller. The second justification for enlargement of the contingency .fund, however, isn't nearly so well founded. Certain organizations overspend their budget, so this' argument goes. When their money runs outand,they seek more, they should beableto find it 1 1n the contingency fund. Such logic, it se,ems to us, has always been on shaky ground. Part of the obligation a student-financed organization has to the rest of the College community is to uphold the confidence placed in them and manage to stay Within their budget. And now, with all a-ctivity budgets slashed by 10 percent, any deviation from this responsibility becomes entirely without merit. All existing activities have seen the amount of money they can use this year trimmed significantly. So the key consideration becomes how the money generated by these cuts will be used. If it is to be directed to groups that have not yet received funding, then there's no complaint. Having less money to spend is a steep price for existing groups to pay, but if it's the price of ensuring the continued growth of Union's extra-curricular programs, then it is a reasonable one, too. · What would be unreasonabfe is if any significant portion of the money generated through these cuts gets redirected to groups that have overspent their budgets. All student activities have been asked to carry an equal portion of the burden imposed by the across- the-board budget cut. It's just fair play that they all strive to spend their money wisely and stay within the bounds imposed by the Forum. Editors-in-Chief Jim Davis, Julie Isgro News Editor Gale Vanore Features Editor Jud)~Chervenak Arts Editors Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Photo Editor Richard A. Slier Sports Editors Bill Curtin, Rich Hope Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowicz Sports Phto Editor Steve Lerner Layout Editor Rachel I. Mandel Business Manager Lawrence C. Leavitt Advertising Manager Jeff Scardino Subscnptioris Editor Ellen Bell'ger Calendar Editor Maria Manfredonia Staff Claire Burchill, Charis Richards Photo Staff Kent Avery, Michael J .. Elkins, Charis Richards CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York. 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney,New York 13838 (607) 563·7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONC()RDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. . ',. li 0 - 0 .c a. I B Col: wor oftl of una or • nigl beci duti DoE fam E Fre of c of C (yo1 caff takE ahe< Tl ther dili€ une HUI viet (Nol \n~J the~ You to c~ and Th min< ever IOUS 1 thep is s quen bee a reas1 open can have plac1 very Bran hour: en or s· Pc dauf are I to he their .Th fresl from a Kj orga: cons] daug help hecti Stu class New sevei Tht at·$ peam an c Pare1 pers< pack1 delivt

Page 2 OONOORDl.ENSIS, November 6, 1980 --Editorial-- Money Minding With student activities budgets for this year cut by 10 percent, it's clear that all persons and organizations affected are going to have to bite the bullet and face some hard realities--namely that they just won't have as much money as they would like. This fact points out the necessity for financial responsibility in using activities fUl)ds. It's really not appropriate, therefore, to blame the Student Forum for making these cuts; they're simply trying to make the $200,000 or so in these funds go as far as it can. The general dse in prices, of course, is part .of the reason for the cut. While the annual activity fee charged each student has remained at $99 for the past three academic years, the cost of living has jumped something like 50 percent. (For this reason, we support an increase in the activity fee as soon as possible.) But the dollar's reduced buying power in no way excuses those student-funded organizations that spend their money irresponsibly. We're told that one of the prime reasons the budget cuts were made was to raise the amount of money in the activities budget \contingency fund\ from about $10,000, where it stood last year, to about $19,000. This money is set aside to fund groups that have not yet received money--either because they are organized during the year or because of some allocation oversight when the budgets were approved, on Oct. 27 this year. This rationale is sound, and we agree with it. Worthy activities shouldn't be stymied just because-· no fault of their own--there's nothing left in the tiller. The second justification for enlargement of the contingency. fund, however, isn't nearly so well founded. Certain organizations overspend their budget, so this argument goes. When their money runs outand.they seek more, they should beableto find it· in the contingency fund. Such logic, it seems to us, has always been on shaky ground. Part of the obligation a student-financed organization has to the rest of the College community is to uphold the confidence placed in them and manage to stay Within their budget. And now, with all activity budgets slashed by 10 percent, any deviation from this responsibility becomes entirely without merit. All existing activities have seen the amount of money they can use this year trimmed significantly. So the key consideration becomes how the money generated by these cuts will be used. If it is to be directed to groups that have not yet received funding, then there's no complaint. Having less money to spend is a steep price for existing groups to pay, but if it's the price of ensuring the continued growth of Union's extra-curricular programs, then it is a reasonable one, too. What would be unreasonabl'e is if any significant portion ·Of the money generated through these cuts gets redirected to groups that have overspent their budgets. All student activities have been asked to carry an equal portion of the burden imposed by the across- the-board budget cut. It's just fair play that they all strive to spend their money wisely and stay within the bounds imposed by the Forum. Editors-in-Chief Jim Davis, Julie Isgro News Editor Gale Vanore Features Editor Jud:C Chervenak Arts Editors Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Photo Editor Richard A. Sher Sports Editors Bill Curtin, Rich Hope Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowicz Sports Phto Editor Steve Lerner Layout Editor Rachel I. Mandel Business Manager Lawrence C. Leavitt Advertising Manager Jeff Scardino Subscriptions Editor Ellen Be:rger Calendar Editor Maria Manfredonia Staff Claire Burchill, Charis Richards Photo Staff Kent A very, Michael J. Elkins, Charis Richards CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc.,ll Division Street, Sidney, NewYorlt 13838 (607) 563-7151. Entered in tlle Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. Hlll'l,o,· loves! To th~ Editors: Disappointing Performance By jove! It is nearly mid-t~rm for us Union students whG are tu.cked .among EngUm famUies in Bath. Amid melancholy slde$~ yell<Jw st<Jne buildings, wet gr{}.nnd and many inclines~ we make ()ur return trip from T t. 'C'dl· this historic city to the mooern ° tue c. 1 tor: university above. Due tn the D i b'li • poor ee.on():tnie trend:s of the · ue to an na l .. ·ty to .acqmre United Kingdom tf>day, we a tic~et for the Grateful Dead spend pound and penoo un chips concert at Radio City, Mume. and laa'er {(}r Scrumpy if you HaU, l ventured to ~ttetui tm ~ $imuleast at Proclorts Theatre Rat ~mb,lems ,Faced . Dear Patrons, prefer) which ultimately add last Friday. 1 was, (If ¢curse, stones {pounds). Then it's a skeptical about attending a · matter ()f queueing (lining) up simulcast rather than· an actual to br-ave the icy night air and concert, but eventUally gave . in astronomical wonders until to desire. However, the evening Rover finds us a bus •. The following, morn we are proved th~t I had made a This is a letter to inform you ab!Jut . certa~n chtmges . at tbe Rat.r,First tl\~re are tl(lt gQ;4}g to tle iAQ~or~·$1)-ecials at th~ Rat. This··. decision made by. the' adndnistrators and handed dowlt thru ' Vice President &iA.ndtea and Dean Kellett. The roos~ning J;)l'hind this decision was that the specials were contributing to and promoting alcoholism. However, we still have '!leer at the. regular prices for those of you who want to ~tpp in for an occasion& beer,. At_this time I want to thank all of the. patr()ils that made my spe~ls, . in tb,e .past a SUCCe$S. , ,, , • dutifully knocked up and sent to mistake, - be collected by a coach and Professor Loodvig for our Upon arriving at the mall fortnight's wandering. In which includes the theatre, 1 transit, the fortunate few share was subjected to, a complete the neW$ they've rooe~ved frolt1 body ~arcQ. by a. nnt~t watched the stat~s. while the rest wish by a policeman. The entrance.tn that the mailman may perish if the theatre was lined with i& he doesn't bring them a letter numerable p<Jlicemen and t()monow (or at least this guards, w.hieh,gav& an aura of a week). presidential speech as, ()pposed Over the fence and through to a rook eoneert. the mud (at least I tbink that No smoking was permitted was mad I stepped in) to see and at numerous times prior to what wonderful rocks ()ur an· the performances those. 1n the · eestors left in this pasture. I sudienee were asked to e\\ even think I saw a punk rock on tinguish cigarettes, etc. During my way f()r midday tea and the simulcast, this instance scones in the centrany heated became annoying. Policemen · ca~r browsing at the ar- and guards were s!ation~d. \·hi.te· .... tu.·. ·t\\··· t.ravi>o. t\'· 1· ..... ·<t .. ·d·.I· ... v.\'. \'- thrl)ughQU.t tile the~:tter -~~4 \' \\ \' • \\ \' 4 \e. ...... - pa\ t 11 d the ais\Ies B\\\'iAes 'for ~inns and adding layers Qf blu~~i~g on~''s ~ie;,~·they clothing tG our down vests~ we flashed flashlights at those reach ftl:r our paperback. C()pies smo}dng. \.t'bi~ continued £Qf the of Hardy and begin to plM tbe · ;,and<itt a 'darll: next weekends excursion. It i$ r it became stf anrioyih;g not long~ however, before our that several people left. In words are drowned out by the additiun, ·-·the p\}Iiceruen old familiar Unhm Ru.gby · preventeg ~ danCing'· in the songs.. aisles. Those who wanted to Havingworkedupthespiritof dance were aslted 0 to the lond Americans, we join the bac~ ofthelli~ferL re ~4t JYP students for games o£ sport .. of tfi-e scr~n was. tmpat~. •· . against blnk'6s from other English Institutes of Higher Proetnr's was unprepared fnr Learning Basketball~ rugby, the br()adcast and·this·teerun:e volleyball~ track, Lacrosse~ evident during the first in· swimming, dancing and tennission. A comedy routine weigbtlifting are but a few. And was performed backstage in thase net playing enjoy the New York City with intern:ew~ . Ameriean P,astiime of etc., but the sound · system harrassing referees and op- failed. No back\ttp system (i.e. ponents ll\ke no Englishman musie} was utitized and this led would ever consider. to audience displeasure. Shouts Then we are off to the Beehive ·of ''rip-off'' and ·~rebate 7 ' wer.e or Huntsman Cellar. Someone heard tbrough~>ut. stands on a stool. and strikes up a rousing chorus of \God Bless Ameri<:ad\ (;heerio from. the Chaps in lltlglalld. Smythe Reply To the Editor: The price of the ticket was a bit· exhorhitantJ costing $8.56 with a ~ cent handling cha:rge~ which. was. exp,alnet~ since the ticl,te~.w~re ~tptehas¢tl':at. tlle: ~ box office. Tbe .· exborbitant pric~ .. jnaY . hav~ t't-e~¢tJ,t~d many frorn a. ~ •. gj since• tlje theater was orily about 6& percent of capaCity. · • Aside from t,hese problems.~ the concert itself was phenomenal. It · lasted five hours and the director in New York did a spectacular job. Surprisingly, the JnUsic quality in the theater was exceptional and the color was superb. ;Those at the concert did what was expected of them, bu.t those at Proctor's did not. The next problem that we at. the Rat have to face, is that of un · g~~<itb*ers. The w~rd is, o. . . ··$if. · sehoul student <:aihg~t ,~erv; at tke Rat. We, a~tcyingtQ change that image. From now on we must card . every~ne. 'fbe only people .we, are allowed,. to serve are Umon Q)Heg~ studentst facnlty, staff, and alumni. To pUrchase beer- you must show a Union Coll(Jge I.D. Card., Guests of students, faciJlty and staff must bf: 13 y¢.~ .Qf .. . and. have .. Jh~ir sponsor· . e beer,· Any .·of the towns people who are caught Uf!ing the. Skellar will be arre,$ted .· .... for trespassingt especiallY ~nse who are urt-\ derage. Also, . beer tha.t is bought in the Skellar must not be taken outside unless it is in a · paper cup. This is, because of. damage done to campus buildings and grounds. . Aq~~~r • ·~9blem pointed <!Ut D:Y Jb9 .Jle.. Dept.~ is that of inJbe a.r. The O<IJly dog .··. . ~p. in &1. eating establisbw ment in the State of New York is a seeing eye_ dog. So -please, ·no mor~ dog~ allowed. ' · ·lt f.tas been a rough w~ek here at the Rat, being under fire from all directiOns at once. ?l¢!ise h\elp tJ,s .witb Yoltt co~ratiori ~d patronag~ and . we ap9loglze for any in- convenience these changes .. migllt J.]leatt. ·-:.:. Many Thanks To the Edito.rs: I would like to commend the staff members nf the Union College Office of Career Resources and Placement. My spe<;ial thanks is expressed to Pat Matteo) for her expert guidance and assistan<:e in 1 regret extremely the attacks made on me and on my hvme institution-Hamster Tech-in the last issue of Concordiensis. The lies concerning me were made, unfortunately, by two of my children. One, W.L. Smyth~, suffers from the egocentrtc opinion that blonde hair and 'blUe eyes allow YDU 00 do it liberally three times a year. Fortunately,. thus far he bas failed to do it, liberally or otherwise, once a year. 'l'be Qther, R:T. Smythe, has a phony Spanisll accent and anaasum.ed continental air which makes . him think that he has $pent a restUilljl} preparation and. to Proctor's Theatre is at- Mary Rodman for her patience tempting a . comebaclt after and organization of tbis office. near-financial ·disaster. They The student body of Union a11e .attemp~ing to create en- College is fortunate to have this thus1as~ mth the theater by devoted group of professionals presentmg Bru:adw~ay . shows working to place graduates in and. ct~ncerts .. However, t~ey , good emplr.tyment positions and · must cater ~o th!lse. attending post.-graduate schools. I llighly these funct1ons1 smce tbey recommend their services to support the th~~ter. and P.ernut the Union College community. decade of d(ling it Dutch. He should remember that it takes two d~cades= to do itt D'utch or otheTwiSe. Union women would do wen to beware of these imm:ature bearers of the great them to enjoy the show W1tbout · · strict police surveifiance. Many Sincerely, of my friends ami I will 'never Daniel Grzeleeki attend anotMr such function CJass o£1981 ~ 1 .. ~ . w ... >- .0 0 0 .J:: 0.. U1 I B Cot: wor oftl of una or nigl bee' duti DoE farn E Fre of c of C (y01 caff takE a he. Tl ther dili~ une HU! viet fNo1 \ne1 the~ You to c1 and Tt mine ever lous: the~ is s quen bee a reas1 open can have plact very Bran hour: en or Pc dau~ are I to he their Th frest from a Ki orga consJ daug help hecti Stu class New sever Th• at $ peam an c Pare1 pers< pack< deliv1

li o· - 0 .c 0.. OON'OORIJIJ!JNSIS, November 6, 1980 ' . . . ·. 'Page 3 Rush, Rush, Rush Freshman men who are in- . terested in pledging a fraternity will get a chance to indicate their interest next Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, Nov. 12 to 14, when the Interfraternity Council (IFC) wUI put a bid box outside the West College dining haU. Those who are interested can · fiU out bid sheets, writing down the names ·Of up to three fraternities they woUld like to pledge, in their order of preference. schedule. They have in- vitational parties scheduled for next Monday and Tuesday, Nov. 10 and 11. Preference parties are scheduled for Wednesday, Nov. 12, at Delta Gamma, at 6 p.m., and the following evening at Sigma Delta Tau. Interested women can sign preference cards, similar te fraternity bid sheets, at the Student Affairs Office in Car- negie Hall, Friday, Nov. 14. They can pick up bids the following day in the office. Sam.bo's Restau~ant, a short wC\Ik frC!m campus, is a popular late n·ight snack ;place. After all bids have ·been received, on the afternoon of Friday, Nov. 14, represen- tatives of each of Union's 15 fraternities-will meet to match bids. Women students can get a complete schedule of PanheUenic (sorority) rush activities in the Student Activities Office. Union 'Dines' Ou't: L.ate Night Munchies Ifthe fraternity a freshman is interested in is also interested in him, then bids are v\mat~ ched,\ and the freshman will become a pledge at that fraternity. Those men who have indicated more than ·one choice will match bids . with the fraternity of his, highest preference that bids him. Assistant Dean of Students Mike Andolina also noted that two other Sororities, Delta Delta Delta and Kappa Delta, will host informational sessions the following week, on either Monday, Nov. 17, or Wed- nesday, Nov. 19. These meetings will be for the purpose of finding out how much interest there would be for additional By NANCY CAMARATA Being a stud~nt at Union, College, faced with piles of work, I realize the inevitability of the dreaded\ all•nighter.\ All of us are subjected to this unavoidable fact of life sooner or later. When this fearsome night finally approaches and becomes a 11eality, we are dutifully prepareuccordingly. Does the following sound familiar?: Equipped with a box of Freihoffers and a large supply of chanrge to buy unending cans of Coke from the soda machine (you are going to need those caffeine fixes), you are ready to take on the big (long) night ahead of you. Things go well for a while, but then suddenly, while studying diligently, some amazing force unexpectedly attacks you-- HUNGER! You are now a victim of the \munchies.\ (Note: you do not have to be \n~rding''\ to be a ·victim of these late-night munchies.) Your body insistently demands to consume any food available, and the quicker the better. The first place that comes to mind is Sambo's. Althougb most everyone agrees that the food is lousy, the service is poor and the prices are too high, Sambo's is still a favorite munch- quencher for Union students because of two very important reasons: it is close by and it is open 24 hours-a-day-nothing can beat that!-Unless, you have a car. If you do, the best place, by unanimous vote (in a very informal polling) is the Brandywine Diner. Open 24 hours-a-day, with good food, enormous servings, very .. reasonable prices and ftiendly, sympathetic service, the Diner is the Union College students' most favorite pit stop for a fill~ up on \brain food.\ Another place high on Union students~ list of favorites is the Fireside. Deemed as the place that has the best pizza in Schenectady, as well as a super terrific onion soup, all at a reasonable price, it is a shame that it has one major drawback- -it is not open 24,.hours~a-day. Jack im the Box is open 24 hours~a·day, and in the opinion of Union Student&, that is its only redeeming . quality. The food is indescribably bad, but when you have a ''mega munch-ie attack,\ who cares? Anything will do to sate your appetite and Jack's is always there. - A new place in town, gaining in popularity, is Mike's Dogs on Erie Boulevard. The fact that it is close by to the campus and open until 1 a.m. {2 a.m. Thursday through Friday) is a major reason for its attraction to Union students. The food is decent, the place is friendly, and the prices are low. All of these fact~ make Mike's Dogs a pretty good place to go to satisfy those nagging munchies. Although not open until Spring Term, Jumping Jacks is tops on everyone's list, if only for the experience. A place that seems like it belongs on the \Happy Days\ set, it is unique. Ordering the food is fun because of the lingo used, and do not forget to leave a tip (five or ten.--· cents will do). The cashier will shout aloud Starvation Kits Parents whose sons and daughters are freshmen here are being given the opportunity to help their children \survive\ their first college final e~ams. . This week, parents of Union freshmen will receive· letters from the College Circle K Club, a Kiwanis-affiliated ·service organization, asking them to consider buying their sons and daughters a \Starvation Kit, to help ease the' pressures of this hectic (final exam) week.\ Students in Union's freshmen class come .from 2~ states, from New York to Ca!ifornia, and several foreign countries. The '(Starvation Kits,'' priced at · $5, will include eandy, peanuts, granola bars, raisins, an orange, and hot cocoa. Parents may send along a personal message with the package, which will be hand delivered to the student's room during exam week, Dec. 3 to 9. Profits from the project .will be donated to charity. . This is the first year the Circle K Club has offered the freshmen \Starvation Kits,\ a project endorsed by Inter- national Circle K, according to club president Sean Seipert, sophomore psychology major. The contents of the ·kits were selected by a committee of Circle K members cochaired by Ruth Lu., a sophomore biology major .. \Students like to eat candy,\ Lu said. \For nutrition's sake, we put in the peanuts, the raisins, · and the orange.\ ; · Seibert and Lu suggested that suitable messages from parents might inClude \Good Luck,\ Please get .A's on your finals,\ · and \Having fun. Wish you were home.\ \Subway to which all the workers show their ap- preciation by yelling out a big \Thank you!\ Plus, they have fantastic ice cream, with a different flavor every two days. You need a car to get to Jum- ping Jacks, but do not miss going, because it is a Spring Term \must.\ If none of these \munch-out meccas'' appeal to you, you can always walk up to the Mini Market or drive to Price Chopper and stock up on food. There is .something for ·everyone! '~Before the bid box goes out, most fraternities will tell those freshmen they are interested in , that they will receive bids,\ said IFC Vice President Seth Mendelowitz. He added that freshmen who do not pledge a fraternity this fall can do so later simply by telling a fraternity of their interest. Next week's bid box will be open only to freshmen men. Union's two sororities, Delta Gamma and Sigma Delta Tau, are- following a different rush sororities here. · If enough women are in- terested, one or both sororities may establish colonies. A colony must be established for about a year· before most sororities or fraternities will grant a charter to a chapter at a new college or university. A third sorority, Kappa Kappa Gamma, which had also been scheduled to come here to explore interest, has decided not to come, Andolina added. Committee Budget Watched By SCO'IT ADAMS The Financial Committee will be \keeping a close eye on\ the Concert Committee (CC), \to make sure the gap between expenses and income does not get too large,\ said Jim Fisher, Chairman of the Finance Committee. This year's first concert, the Henry Paul Band, Oct. 17 at Memorial Chapel, drew significantly fewer people than the Concert Committee had projected. This resulted in a greater loss than expected. CC, which has the largest budget ·from the Student Activities Fund, is anticipating an additional revenue in ticket sales of $44,000. Because of the extent to which the CC is dependent on additional, but ·possibly unreliable income, Fisher feels their expenses mmt be watched carefully. In an extreme but highly up.likely situation, if the CC were suffering extreme losses, the Financial Committee could freeze the CC's budget. Said Fisher, \there have been no serious .problems in the past.\ Seeing this only as a safety measure, Fisher said, \hopefully we will be able to see a losing situation and stop it in the making.\ However, Fisher stressed, \We are not going to tell them => bow to run the concerts, that's .J their business.\ What the :E Financial Committee will do is ~ Fatch how the concerts are set >- up and how well they do. If CC is ~ not\ doing well financially, 0 Fisher explained, the Financial [ Committe~ will make suggestions. Doing this, Fisher said, ''Is all part of our auditing process.\ H!=!nry Paul performs in Memorial Chapel at Union's most recent concert. AIRLINE JOBS-FREE INFo,· Nationwide ( Write Airline Placement· Bureau 4208 198th SW No. 101 Lynnwood, WA 98036 Enclose a self-addressed stamped large envelope _ Subscribe to CONCORDIENSIS Parents, Alumni, Friends $10 Yearly Concordiensis Box 2517, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308

' ' OONOORDI.lilNS18, November 6, 1980 Page 3 >- .0 0 0 .J: 0.. Rush, Rush, Rush Freshman men who are in- terested in pledging a fraternity will get a chance to indicate their interest next Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, Nov.12 to 14, when the Interfraternity Council (IFC) wiH put a bid box outside the West College dining hall. schedule. They have in- vitational parties scheduled for aext Monday and Tuesday, Nov. 10 and 11. Preference parties are scheduled for Wednesday, Nov. 12, at Delta Gamma, at 6 p.m., and the following evening at Sigma Delta Tau. Sambo's Restaurant, a short waJ:k from campus, is a popular late night snack place. Those who are interested can fill out bid sheets, writing down the names of up to three fraternities they would like to p-ledge, in their order of preference. After aU bids have been received, en the afternoon of Friday, Nov. 14, represen- tatives of each of Union's 15 fraternities- will meet to match bids. Interested women can sign preference cards, similar to fraternity bid sheets, at the Student Affairs Office in Car- negie Hali, Friday, Nov. 14. They can pick up bids the following day in the office. Warnen students can get a camplete schedule of Panhellenic (sorority) rush activities in the Student Activities Office. Union 'Dines' Out: Late Night Munchies If the fraternity a freshman is interested in is also interested in him, then bids are ''mat- ched,\ and the freshman wHl become a pledge at that fraternity. Those men who have indicated more than one choice will match bids with the fraternity of his highest preference that bids him. Assistant Dean of Students Mike Andolina also noted that two other sororities, Delta Delta Delta and Kappa Delta, will host informational sessions the following week, on either Monclay, Nov. 17, or Wed- nesday, Nov. 19. These meetings will be for the purpose of finding out how much interest there would be for additional sororities here. By NANCY CAMARATA Being a student at Union. College, faced with piles of work, I realize tile inevitability of the dreaded \all-nighter.\ All of us are subjected to this unavoidable fact of life sooner or later. When this fearsome night finally approaches and becomes a reality, we are dutifully preparedJlccordingly. Does the following sound familiar?: Equipped with a box of Freihoffers and a large supply of change to buy unending cans of Coke from the soda machine (you are going to need those caffeine fixes), you are ready to take on the big (long) night ahead of you. Things go well for a while, but then suddenly, while studying diligently, some amazing force unexpectedly attacks you-- HUNGER! You are now a victim of the \munchies.\ mote: you do not have to be \nerding to be a victim of these late-night munchies.) Your body insistently demands to consume any food available, and the quicker the better. The first place that comes to mind isSambo's. Although most everyone agrees that the food is lousy, the service is poor and the prices are too high, Sambo's is still a favorite munch- quencher for Union students because of two very important reasons: it is close by and it is open 24 hours-a-day-nothing can beat that!--Unless, you have a car. If you do, the best place, by unanimous vote (in a very informal polling) is the Brandywine Diner. Open 24 hours-a-day, with good food, enormous servings, very reasonable prices and friendly, sympathetic service, the Diner is the Union College students' most favorite pit st~p for a fill- up on \brain food.\ Another place high on Unicm students' list of favorites is the Fireside. Deemed as the place tbat has the best pizza in Schenectady, as well as a super terrific onion soup, all at a reasonable price, it is a shame that it has one major drawback- -it is not open 24-hours-a-day. Jack in the Box is open 24 hours-a-day, and in the opinion of Union Students, that is its only redeeming quality. The food is indescribably bad, but when you have a \mega munchie attack,\ who cares? Anything will do to sate your appetite and Jack's is always there. A new place in town, gaining in popularity, is Mike's Dogs on Erie Boulevard. The fact that it is close by to the campus and open until 1 a.m. (2 a.m. Thursday through Friday) is a major reason for its attraction to Union students. The food is decent, the place is friendly, and the prices are low. All of these facts make Mike's Dogs a pretty good place to go to satisfy those nagging munchies. Although not open until Spring Term, Jumping Jacks is tops on everyone's list, if only for the experience. A place that seems like it belongs on the \Happy Days\ set, it is unique. Ordering the food is fun because of the lingo used, and do not forget to leave a tip (five or ten cents will do) . The cashier will shout aloud Starvation Kits Parents whose sons and daughters are freslunen here are being given the opportunity to help their children \survive\ their first college final exams. This week, parents of Union freshmen will receive letters from the College Circle K Club, a Kiwanis-affiliated service organization, asking them to consider buying their sons and daughters a \Starvation Kit, to help ease the pressures of this hectic (final exam) week.'' Students in Union's freslunen class come from 22 states, from New York to California, and several foreign countries. The \Starvation Kits,\ priced at $5, will include candy, peanuts, granola bars, raisins, an orange, and hot cocoa. Parents may send along a personal message with the package, which will be hand delivered to the student's room during exam week, Dec. 3 to 9. Profits from the praj ect will be donated to charity. This is the first year the Circle K Club has offered the freshmen \Starvation Kits,\ a project endorsed by Inter- national Circle K, according to club president Sean Seibert, sophomore psychology major. The contents of the kits were selected by a committee of Circle K members cochaired by Ruth Lu, a sophomore biology major. \Students like to eat candy,\ Lu said. \For nutrition's sake, we put in the peanuts, the raisins, and the orange.\ Seibert and Lu suggested that suitable messages from parents might include \Good Luck,\ Please get A's on yoru finals,\ and \Having fun. Wish you were home.\ \Subway to which all the workers show their ap- preciation by yelling out a big \Thank you!\ Plus, they have fantastic ice cream, with a different flavor every two days. You need a car to get to Jumg ping Jacks, but do not miss going, because it is a Spring Term \must. If none of these \munch-out meccas\ appeal to you, you can always walk up to the Mini Market or drive to Price Chopper and stock up on food. There is something for everyone! \Before the bid box goes out, most fraternities will tell those freshmen they are interested in · that they will receive bids,\ said IFC Vice President Seth Mendelowitz. He added that freshmen who do not pledge a fraternity this fall can do so later simply by telling a fraternity of their interest. Next week's bid box will be open only to freshmen men. Union's two sororities, Delta Gamma and Sigma Delta Tau, are following a different rush If enough women are in- terested, one or both S(}rorities may establish colonies. A colony must be established for a bout a year before most sororities or fraternities will grant a charter to a chapter at a new college or university. A third sorority, Kappa Kappa Gamma, whiclt had also been scheduled to come here to explore interest, has decided not to come, Andolina added. Committee Budget Watched By SCOTT ADAMS The Financial Committee will be \keeping a close eye on\ the Concert Committee ( CC), \to make sure the gap between expenses and income does not get too large,'' said Jim Fisher, Chairman of the Finance Committee. This year's first concert, the Henry Paul Band, Oct. 17 at Memorial Chapel, drew significantly fewer people than the Concert Committee had projected. This resulted in a greater loss than expected. CC, which has the largest budget from the Student Activities Fund, is anticipating an additional revenue in ticket sales of $44,000. Because of the extent to which the CC is dependent on additional, but possibly unreliable income, Fisher feels their expenses must be watched carefully. In an extreme but highly unlikely situation, if the CC were suffering extreme losses, the Financial Committee could freeze the CC' s budget. Said Fisher, \there have been no serious problems in the past.\ Seeing this only as a safety measure, Fisher said, \hopefully we will be able to see a losing situation and stop it in the making.\ However, Fisher stressed, \We are not going to tell them ;:) how to run the concerts, that's .J their business.\ What the :E Financial Committee will do is & watch how the concerts are set >- up and howwell they do. If CC is ~ not doing well financially, 0 Fisher explained, the Financial & Committee, will make suggestions. Doing this, Fisher said, \Is all part of our auditing process.\ Henry Paul performs in Memorial Chapel at Union's most recent concert. AIRLINE JOBS-FREE INFo· Nationwide Write Airline Placement Bureau 4-8 198th SW No. 101 lynnwood, WA 98036 Enclose a self-addressed stamped large envelope Subscribe to CONCORDIENSIS Parents, Alumni1 Friends $10 Yearly Concordiensis Box 2517, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308

Page 4 • , f • · OONOORDIENSISJ Novembe-r 6, ·1980 Boob Tube: Soaps Obsess Students By JANET SINGLETON College Pres$ Service Vivian Relta, a graduate\ student at Cornell, starts with \Ryan's. Hope.\ Then she switc·hes channels between ABC's \All My Children\ .. and CBS's \The Young and the Restless.\ Afterwards comes ·'Edge ·Of Night,'' \One Life To Live,\ and \General Hospital.'\ were,\ Smith says. \They're shooting on location now in places like lrelaJ)d, Greece, France, the Bahamas.\ . Moreover, \They cantreat an Lssue with more .·ln-depth coverage and perspectiive than night-time programming,\ she adds. ''Th~y cover issues like wife beatiQg, cancer, abortion, infidelity!' . and escape and relatively hArmless titillation. But as to ·-why college students watch them instead of higher-quality • programs that offer the same ; things, I don't know.\ ~ And Relta '.s viewing habit$, once assumed to be exclusively those of idle housewives or aged shut-ins, are becoming more common among college students. Soa11 operas, in other words, have come to campus. \The ABC stories integrate their oldest and their youngest story lines,\ Smith points o~t. She, like many of the students contacted, thought ''General Hospital\ was the most sue• cessful integrator. In the Northern IDinois study . conducted last fall, 40 percent of <( the soap watchers said they \E viewed soaps because they were ~ interested in the involved plots, .ci 30 percent said they watched because .the character~. were ~ \so dwnb,\ and· abnost . 14 2 percent noted the beneficial· _g effect of watching televised a. programs that made their own troubles seem trivial. Union students avidly watch their soap operas. Estimates of just how many students havetaken to the soaps are :almost always unscientific. But one scholarly study, by Northern Illlnois University professors Myles Breen and Jon Powell, projected that 40 per- cent of the female and 10 per- cent of the male students on campus regularly tuned in. Student interest tends to center on the tale of Luke and Laura, just two of the tor- mented: crew at ''General Hospital.\ Luke is a down-and- out kid from the wrong side of town who got mixed up with · mafiQSo. Laura's past is a bit - checkered,. too--notably the business about killing her mother's lover. But then she married Scotty, and became Woman B.ecome.s Co.Unselor ·One .of the most popular soaps among Union students is \General Hospital,\ aired weekdays from 3 to 4 p.m. on ChannellO. \It's an hour-long program, but time seem~ to fly by when I'm watching it,\ said senior Steve Goll, who began watching GH about two years ago. Junior ·Fred Hiffa agreed, adding that the show's well- developed plots keep him in- terested. \The'scenes change a lot, so you have to pay attention or you'll lost track of what's happening.\ But if one of these regular viewers happens to miss an episode, they say .it's not hard to · pick up the action, because.they can get . filled in by another . faithful follower, who tuned in. respectable. . Luke rapes Laura, paradoxically because he thinks the mafia is going to kill him for not carrying out a hit .. Scotty .finds out about it, tracks Luke to a boat,. and attacks him. They struggle. Luke pitches over- board. Scotty has killed Luke, as well as the viewing habits of millions of college students. But wait. Luke not only survived, he left town with Laura. When last seen, they were both on the run from a transvestite hit man. Figuring· out why such material appeals to the educated elite of American youth can be a pcoblem. \The programs have obvious ap- peals,\ says sociologist Rodney Jacobs of the University of Delaware. \They offer romance By SUE BLOOMBERG \College years are probably the hardest· faced by people in our society. People sometimes lose their perspective at.school. The rnore they conform, the less they can allow their feelings to show. The pressures of social conformity and high academic performance o\ften leads to anxiety, depression and other problems.\ This was expressed by Linda Frye, who recently became part of the Counseling Service at Union. The Counseling Service, on the second floor of the Placement Building, has been in existance for more than 20 years. It is composed of two Union faculty members, who work as part-time counselors, and Miss Frye, who counsels two days a week. Being the only woman on the staff, Miss Frye adds a . new dimension to the , counseling service. Many stUdents, both male and female, requesfto .see a woman counselor and this can now be provided. Miss· Frye appears to be quite enthusiastic a bout her counseling position and is looking forward to ex- panding her role as the year progresses .. She.has been ~nvolveQ in three pfofessions-education, jour• nalism, and counseling. Miss Frye ,received her B.A •. in 1964 from the college of St. Rose in Classical Languages and Education. After graduating from St. Rose she taught Latin and Greek Literature and English. For approximately three years in the mid-70's, she did. freelance writing for the Capital Newspapers, concentrating on human interef?t stories, in such areas as medicing, human service ·and entertainment. Desiring to make an impact on s<>ciety, which she felt she was una'ble to do through jour- nalism, Miss Frye decided to redirect her career to coun- seling. This past spring, after a Another of this regular group, junior Dave Kr~eger, says ·~e began watching· GH . this summer, and continued to after he returned here and saw other people watching it. Prof. Att-e·nds Conference \It's a different kind of soap opera,\ he said. \I enjoy it because l can identify with it.\ Lorraine Zenka Smith, editor of the soap fan magazine \Rona Barrett's Daytimers,\ says the campus soap opera boom is part of a more general spread of popularity for the shows. She cites a budding interest in the programs for their production values and for sociological observations. She wouldn't mind cultivating that interest, either. She has been discussing the possibility of teaching classes on soap operas with administrators at UCLA and other California schools. \Soaps are more sophisticated than they ever Associate Professor of Psychology Rudy V. Nydegger, chairman of the Union Psychology Department, was one of 35 people from across the U.S. who received a National Science Foundation .grant to attend a conference on the Psychology of Aging. The two-week conference, during which participants worked with experts in the fields of aging and gerontology, was held this summer at . Washington University, St. Louis. The program was sponsored and funded by the National Science Foundation. Nydegger is actively involved with the Hospice of Schtmec· tady, an organization devoted to the care and treatment of the dying patient and his or her family. He is vice president of the Hospice board of cijrectors and past chairman of its grant committee. \I have been involved with the developm~nt of treatment services for the terminally ill,\ Nydegger said, \and as such felt the need to learn more about aging as a psychological process, since most of our patients will be older adults.\ Mental Science and the Texas Children's Hospital, and clinical assistant professor in the Baylor College of Medicine J;)epartment of Psychiatry. A member of the Union faculty since 1977, Nydegger is a graduate of Wichita State University where he received both his B.A. and M.A. degrees , ....... ._.....;___... _ __, ___________________ ---l... in psychology, and Washingtl6n The author of numerous technical reports and articles in ... professional journals, many of them dealing with information processing and game theory, Nydegger recently received an award for outstanding research from the New York State Psychological Association. He received an honQ_rable mention in the senior psychologist category for an article .entitled \The Effects of Information Processing . Complexity and Interpersonal Cue Availability on Strategic Play in a Mixed Motive Game,\ which was published in the March 1980 edition of the Jo1U'D8.l of Per- sonaUty. - 464 State St. wedeli~r • Scheneqady 374~i888. - Ph: Riggi's Pizza EJ 374~9455 Hot & Cold Sandwiches & Subs 2155 Van Vranken Ave t - 4 minute walk- Union To Girling Center Nott. st. o- R1GGI'S MohawkL Bank Alexander St. University, where he was awa~ded a doctorate in clinical psychology. He is a- former assistant professor of psychology at Rice University, a child psychologist for th~. Texas Research Institute of Nydegger and his wife, the former Jola Cope, have three daughters. They re~Jide at 258 Bradley Blvd., Schenectady. Professor Nydegger was invoivedln a psychology conference· · on· aging. · .friend· suggested she go into counseling, she received . her M.S. W. at SUNY. Miss Frye has held internships at a family agency in Albany· and is af- filiated with the Department of Psychiatry. at the Albany Medical College. She stills holds a position as a fa~ly therapi~t at the Albany Medical College once a Week. . On the personal side, Miss . Frye is a single parent and a mother of one daughter and two sons. She grew up on a farm in · the Capital District area and presently lives in Delmar. As far as her priQrities are concerned, she said, ''My· children, friends and work are the most important things to . me.\ She holds an interest in running for , enjoyment. Regarding herself as a basically mellow person; she said, \Hanging out with friends and just talking is my jdea of real fun.\ • Miss Frye decided to take the counseling position at Union for many reasons. While feeling comfortable in an academic atmosphere, she is interested in working with students and their problems. Being interested in family problems and those facing women, she found the job attractive. \Besides this, the job has already been rewarding and the people involved with the counseling service are a good group of people to wo.rk with.\ The counseling service, ac- cording to Miss Frye, deals with various types of problems, with a concern for ·both immediate and long-term problems. Often students will come in for a brtef counseling to deal with a certain \ situation. Long-term anxiety and depression, faced by students, is also dealt with by the counseling service. The family perspective, which is one school of thought in counseling, is used by -Miss Frye in dealing with students' problems. \This is just a starting point to put a problem into perspect_ive. Then the problem has to be pQt into context with the whole system, family, school, peer relations, professors, and so on.\ ln regard to her work done at Union thus far, she revealed that the problem which seems. to face more students than any other is that of being weird or different. She explained that a large number of students feel that they cannot conform to many social norms, which causes various 4 social and academic anxieties. Linda Frye has found counseling to be rewarding and • hopes to build the counseling service at Union College. Presently, there is a plan being worked out for a group to deal with relationships and com- munication skills, which she is very intereSted in .promoting. The large amounts of en- thusiasm, which she has is definitely an asset to the counseling service. IM.POl \day\ Gradq will b course ex~· Conflic Lapidu Thursd held in the bui AB-AI BH-B< BU-Bl HU.:.,_HI N-Nor OC-4>1 PY-P! 88---SO( SH-St1 Freshll suasion Liberal Ston~I Classic! Econon Sec. : Sec. i Econon Econon Engli!lh English Tharsin History Characl HU 019 History Thursto His tor, History: French French ·Germaii Political sec. 2--1 Politic~ Politics· Sociolog 112 .Biology Biology Butterst Biology Butzel-1 Chemist Math em BH 203 Math em 205 Physics Science, Newm811 Physics· Physics Psychoh Sec. 2- Sec. 3- Psycliol( GreenbeJ PsycholCJ E.S. 10-l E.S. 20-l E.S. U..:.J E.S. 42--1 C.E.41-I C.E. 150- E.E. 154· Compute GoldbogE English S HU 117 Philosopl Biology 1 Chemistr Sec. 1- Sec. 2;... E.s. 26-· Ketchum· Compute Bannay-l Freshma suasion, ~ Economi Prosf>er--l Economi< Wiese-Ss English t 114 History 6: Ilistory J Hansen-F. German l Civilizatio Russian!: -Jernakofl l>hiltsoph' l>hil4:1soph: Political S

FALL uAMJNATION SCHEDULE First Term 1980-81 IMPORTANT: 'This e:xun schedule is for regular ''day\ und~rgraduate collrses. A separate schedule for Gradqate Studies and Continuing Education courses will be· announced, and students fn \Section 51'~ courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam time for tbose colll\ses. : Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. Lapidus in the Office of the Registrar not later than Thursday, November 20; 1980~ Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below ·is the code of the buildings to be used: AB-Arts Building BH-Bailey Han BU-Butterfield Hall HU..:,...Hwnanitjes Building N-North Wing-8ci.~Eng. Center OC~ld Chapel PY -Psychology Laboratory S8---Social Science Bldg. SH---8teininetz Hall WEDNESDAY, Dec. 3 • 9-11 a.m. Freshman Preceptorial 10-•Perception and Per- suasion, Sec. 2-Patrik-HU 110 Liberal Learning 50..Special Topics in Geology--D. .Ston~BU 2()4 Classics 21-History of Greece-Reece-\HU 115 Economics 16-History of Economics Sec. 2.:.Prosper-SS 115 · . Sec. 3-Ginsburg-ss 113 Economics :U-Microeconolilic Analysis.;..Klein-8S 012 Economics 141--Monetary Economics-Phaup-88 117 Engli~h 40-f.i~erature of the Bible-Heinegg:-O.C. English 60-Ltterature of the Eighteenth Century- Tharsing-HU .014 ., · History 10-History and Society: The Emei-gence and Character of Traditional Civilization-Hansen Wells- HU019 . ' History 65-East Asian Civilization-China and Japan- Thurston-58 010 History 121-·American Constitutional and Legal History: The Feceral E:xperience-Allen-HU 016 , French 1().-Basic French I-Warger-HU 117 French 20-Intensive French-Thomas-HU 112 ·German 12-Basic German lii-Mache-'HU 11., PQlitical Science 11-Contemporary American Politics, Sec. 2--Daniels-HU 114 Political Science 12--Contemporary Intern.ational Politics-Pelletiere--8S 014 Sociology 34-Race and Ethnic Relations-Weiner-58 112 .Biology 21-Biology of Animals, Core 1-Roth-ss 016 Biology 32·-Comparati.ve Vertebrate Anatomy-- Butterstein--BH 207 Biology 146-Biocheiilical and Molecular Genetics- Butzel-BH 102 Chemistry 152-Physical Chemistry II-Hayes-N 222 Mathematics A1-Linear Algebra I, Sec. 1-Rosenthal- BH 203 Mathematics 136-Real Variable Theory I-Bick-BH 205 . . P~ysics t3-Intr~?ction to Physics II (For Biology, Science, Humanities and Social Science Majors)- Newman-8H 106 Physics 48-0ur Physical Environment.:.Schick-8H 100 Physics 131-Electromagnetism-Titus-sH 219 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology Sec. 2-Markiewicz-PY 113 Sec!. _3-Lipton-PY 102 . Psycholog 20-Statisticai Methods in J?syctiology- Greenberg-PY 213 · Psychology 30-Personality-Nydegger-PY 204 E.S. 10-Mechanics I-Jewell'-BU 106 E.S. 20-Mechanics II-Panlilio-BU 109 E.S. U..:.Electric Circuits I, Sec. 1-Kump-SH 110 E.S. 42-Electric Cb.-cuits Il...Cbang-BH 10.4 C.E. 41-Legal Aspects of Engineering-Harlow-BU 300 C.E. 150-Water Resources-snow-BH 106 E.E. 154-VI.SI System Design-:-Williams-BH 108 Computer Science 131-Intl\oduction to Compilers- Goldbogen-BH 201 Wednesday, Dec. 3 • 2-4 p.m. English 53-Literature ofthe Renaissance--8tevenson- HU 117 P~ilosopby 144-Politicgl Philosophy-Bake~--IIU 114 Btology 138-Helminthology-styles-BH 106 Chemistry 30-0rganic Chemistry I Sec. 1-8heffer-BU 204 Sec. 2-Hull-BU 204 K E.S. 26--Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer-- etchrun-HU 115 ~omputer Science 37--Stractured Programming-- annay-BH 207 . · Thursday, Dec. 4· 9·11a.m. Freshman Preceptorial 10--Perception and Per- suasion, Sec. 4-Cole-BH 102 · P Economics 32-·Labor and Industrial Relations-- rosf>er..SS 115 - W E~onomics 43-Economic Growth and Development- tese--ss 113 ~~glish 62-Nineteenth.:Century .Novel-Ulhnann-HU 2!story 62-Latin America Since 1825-Brist(}I-ss 010 H .. ~story 141-The Age of Democratic Revolution- ansen-HU 110 C G.e~an 138-lntroduction to German Literature ayd lViltzation-Warde-HU 116 RJussian 133-The Russian Language in Practical Use I- - ernakoff-HU 112 ~~gosophy 12-Philosophical Probh~ms-Baker-HU 117 osophy 2~lassical Logic-Kaminsky--HU ()t4 PoUtical Science 11-Conternporary American. Politics, ... I OONOORDIENSIS, November 6~ 1980- Sec. 3-Tidmarch-SS 012 Sociology 18-Introduction to Sociology, Sec.l-Kaplan- -HU 115 Biolo.gy 23-The Cell, Core UI-8mith-BH 2f11 Biology 18&-Biochemistry-Birecka-BH 106 Geology 5t...Oceanography-Zimmerman-BU 109 Phy_slcs . 11--Intro?uction to Physics I (For Engmeenng, Chenustry, Mathematics and Physics Major,s)-Pilcher-sH 106 Pbysics 22-\Electronic Circuits-Newman....SH 219 Physics 119-Relativity, Gravitation and Cosmology- Ohanian,...SH 101 - Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 4- Girdner-PY 113 Psychology 38-Develop_mental Psychology-Britain- PY 213 · Psychology 46-~Introduction to Psychobiology-- Markiewicz-PY 102 Psychology 12~History of Psychology-8pring-PY 204 E.S. 30-Mechanics of -Deformable Solids, Sec. 2- Panlilio ... N 116 E.S. 41.-.Electric Circuits I, Sec. 2-Branch-N 222 E.S. 134-Systems Analysis-Jewell-BU 106 Compu~er Sc!ence 11-FORTRAN Programming for the Soc1al. Sc1ences-Goodheart-BH 201 A.O.P. 09-Critical Reading andWriting-Williams-BH 104 ' I Thursday, Dec. 4 • 2-4 p.m. Art 20-Introduction to Art History I-Rohrer-AB 104 Music 16-Introduction to Musi~Wilson-AB 204 Economics 42-Macroeconolilic Theory and Pollcy-- Kershner-ss 115 Economics 145-Managerial Economics-Kenney-sS 113 ' EngJJsh 46-Modem Drama-Ullmann-HU 110 Sociology 135-Social Change-Huggins-8S U7 Biology,· 51-Ecology-Tobiessen-BH 207 Chennstry 118-Inorganic Chemistry II-8caife-SH UO Mathematics 14-Calculus DI Sec. 1-Bick-BH 203 ' Sec. 2-8tone-BH 201 · Sec. 3-Barbanel-BH 104 Sec. 4-8tone-BH 201 Psychology 44-Experimental Psychology 1-Huntley- PY 102 . . Psychology 62-Practicum in Human Relations I- Girdner-PY 113 • C.E. 20-Lane Measurements: Theory and Application- ~Male-BU 106 Computer Science 181--Programming Project-· Goldbogen-8H 101 Friday, Dec. 5-9-Ua.m. Freshman Preceptorial 10--Perception and Per- suasionJ Sec. 6-Wells--8S 113 Freshman Electiv(! 6~Intelligent Life in the Universe- ·Ohanian-sH 101 Liberal Learning 20-Simplistic Modelling of Behavior- ·Russ-N 222 Economics tO-Elementary Economics, Sec. 4-K.J.ein- SS 115 · · Economics 11-Elementary Economics, Sec. 2-Wiese- SS1W . English 19-Major English Authors I, Sec. 1-Tharsing- HU 115 History 18-Emergence of Modern America, 1885-1929- Jonas--ss 012 · History 54-Russia in the Imperial Age-Berk-88 112 History 69-Modern China-Thurston-HU 114 ' French 132-Masterworks of French Literature- Warger-HU 116 Russian 10-Basic Russian 1-Jernakoff-HU 110 Spanish 133-The Spanish Language in Practical Use I- Ihrie-HU 016 Philosophy 15-Philosophy and Existential Politics- Patirk-HU 117 Political Science 11-Contemporary American Politics, Sec. 1--Brown-HU 019 Political Science 84-Political Sociology-Weiner-8S 014 Sociology 10-Introduction tQ Sociology, Sec. 2- Huggins-HU 112 _ Sociology 124-Political Sociology-Weiner-88 014 Mathematics 41..:Linear Algebra, Sec. 2-Pappas-BH 108 Mathematics 57-·The Nature of MathematicsD- Zwicker-BH 203 Physics U-Introductiou_ to Physics I (For Class ·of 1984), Sec. 1-8chick-8H 106 Physics 41-The Science in Science Fiction-Peak-8H 1ro v Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 5- Greenberg-PY 113 Psychology 31-Abnormal Psychology-Nydegger-PY 102 Psychology 40-Seminar in Adolescence-Britain-PY 204 E.S. 22-8cience of Engineering Materials-Milillo-BU 204 ' C.E. 35-~ater Resources and the Environment (Non C.E. MaJors)-8now-BH 207 M.E. 30-Dynamics of Linear Systems-Bingham-BH 104 Computer Science t8--Introduction to Computer Organization-Hassib-BH 201 Friday, Dec. 5 ·2-4p.m. Economics 10-Elementary Economics, Sec. 5-Phaup- SS 115 English 25-Introduction to Shakespeare-8tevenson- HU·n2 . . History 44-A Survey of Modern Europe, 1715-1945- Berk-88· 112 German 10...Basic German I Sec. 1-Kellenter-HU 115 Sec. 2-Mache-HU t15 · Page 5 Statistics !I)-Introduction to Statistics-Sclunidt-88 016 BJelogy 50--Biological Community Analysis·· Tobiessen-BH 201 Physics 11-Introduetion to Physics I (For Class of 1984), Sec. 2--Peak-sH 106 . PsychDiogy 50-Educational Psychology-Girdner-PY 2M _ Monday, Dec. 8 -9~11 a.m. Latin !&-Principles of Latin-Ketterer-HU 112 . Latin 137:....Latin Epic-.Ketterer-HU 112 Economics 148-Seminar in Econometrics--schmidt- - HU 117 Hebrew 10-Basic Hebrew 1-Heckelman-HU 114 Hebrew 133-The Hebrew Language in Practical Use- Heckelrnan-HU 114 Philosophy 42-Ethics-Kaminsky-HU 116 Political Science 44-Japanese Political Behavior- Thurston-58 117 Political Science 61--Public Administration-· Underwood-8S 112 Soci~»logy 39--Sociology of the Family-Kaplan-8S 113 Statistics 10-Introduction to Statistics-Delaney--BH 102 ·Accounting 10-Financial Accounting-Mercer-BH 205 Ps~chology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 6- Britain .... PY 113 Psychology 41--Humanistic Psychology.:.Calabria-PY 213 - Psychology 48-Clinical Models of Psychotherapy 1- Dowling-PY 102 Computer Science 244-·Artificial Inteiligence-- Williarn.s-sH 110 Monday, Dee. 8- 24 p.m. Political Science 26--Social Data Analysis-Hartwig-88 113 Sociology 52-Social Data Analysis-58 113 Mathematics tO-Calculus I Sec. 1-Gillette-SS 115 Sec. 2--8tone-BH 203 Sec. 3-Reynolds-HU 019 Sec. 4-Taylor-BH 104 Sec. 5-Fairchild-BH 207 Sec. 6-8eiken-BH 201 Sec. 7-Reynolds-HU 019 Sec. 8-Pappas-BH 102 Sec. 6--Barbanel-SS 112 Sec~ 10-Fairchild-BH 207 Sec. 11-Gole-BH 106 Sec. 12-Rosen-HU 115 Sec. 13-Zwicker-BH 205 Mathematics 12-Calculus II Sec. 1-Gillette-SS 115 Sec. 2-Muckenfuss-BU 109 Sec. 3-Muckenfuss-BU 109 Mathematics 30-Qrdinary Differential Equations Sec. 1-Rosen-HU 115 Sec. 2-8eiken-BH 201 Sec. 3-Rosenthal-BH 108 Mathematics 100-Qrthogonal Functions and Boundary Values--Reynolds-HU 019 Tuesday, Dec. 9-9-lf a.m. Greek 10-Principles of Greek-Ouellette-HU 112 E~onomics tO--Elementary Economics, Sec. t-- Gmsberg-ss 115 Economics 11-Elementary Economics, Sec. 1-Lewis- SS 112 . ' Frencii12-Basic French III-Warger-HU 117 Spanish 10-Basic Spanish I-Ginsberg--HU 110 Accouo.tlng 10-Financial Accounting-Hurley-BH 205 Biology 130--Comparative Animal Physiology-- Lambert-ss 012 Chemistry 40-Quantitative Chemistry-8chaefer-N 222 Geology 50-The Evolution of the Earth-Zimmerman- BU 109 Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I (For Biology Science, Hwnanities and Social Science Majors)-Hall: ~H100 ~ Phy~ics , 13--Intro~uction to Physics II (For Engmeermg, Chenustry, Mathematics and Physics Majors)-Reich-8H 110 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 1- Huntley .. PY 102 . . Psychology 24-Social Psychology-Lipton-PY 213 E.S. 3()-Mechanics of Defonnable Solids, Sec. 1- Doeing'-BH 108 . C.E. 142-8oil Mechanics-Griggs-BU 100 E.E. 30-System Theory 1-Goodheart-BH 201 Computer Science 12-Programming for the Sciences- Branch-BE 207 · Computer Science 34--COBOL and Information Processing...Schwarz-HU 115 Computer Science 40--Machine and Assembly Language-Hannay-8H 100 Thursday, Dec. 9-2-4p.m. Chinese 1()-Basic Intensive Chinese 1-Lo-HU 014 Spanish 12-Basic Spanish 111-Ihrie-HU 116 Political Science 64·-Congressional Politics-· Tidmarch-88 117 Political Science 66-Presidential Politics-Daniels-8S 112 Chemistry tO-FWldamental Chemistry I Sec. 1, 2-Werner-BU 204 Sec. 3-Quaal-BU 204 Sec. 4-W eick-BU 204 Sec. 5--scaife-BU 204 Chemistry 14-Scientific Creativity-8caife-BU 204 Mathematics 18-lntroduction to Logic and Set Theory- ·Taylor-BH 207 A.O.P. ·tn-College Science-Enokian-BH 104 A.O.P. 08-Pre-Calculus Mathematics-Fisher-BH 108 \ ..... .,, ,.._ ..... \ ... - ..

Page 6 OONOORDIEN818 1 November 6, 1980 arttJI . ' ~ . . ' ' ' ' ' • • ' • ' ' • • ' r ' ' ~ '' ' ' \. And You Sat Alone in Your Roo.m By GILLE ANN RABBIN Frankly speaking, last Thursday's Cabaret was not good. It was great! solutely delightful. Decker and Hope .gave us a polished, smooth performance-one that will be remembered for quite a while. . The second act was impersonations of Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan, Cary Grant, Sammy Davis, Ricky Ricardo, etc., were un- beatable. His Ed Sullivan was perfection. Bill. I've .seen you perform many times. After last Thursday's show, I finally arrived at the following con- clusion: You are not Bill DiConza, Union College student. Bill does not exist. The emcee ·Of last Thursday's Cabaret was Rich Little, making believe he was some guy named Bill DiConza, doing impersonations. cUltu~e The first act consisted of those two cuties from Chi Psi, Rich Decker and Rick Hope. Both played the guitar and' sang-quite well. Many of the songs sung by Rich and Rich were by the Grateful Dead, including \Box of Rain\ and \Ramblin' Rose.\ Judging by the audience's reaction, I'm sure many Dead heads were present. I especially enjoyed ''Get Back\ by the Beatles, which led into \Railroad Blues\ by the Dead. This act was ab- tremendous. This was the· Martin Brothers Band, which started .out with Dave Havaland and Jim Masterson, who were later joined by Jim Etkin, Steve Larsen, and Greg Meyer. They played wonderful bluegrass and country music. Included in their repertoire was the theme song from \The Beverly Hillbillies.\ Their rendition of that song of songs was great. Anyone who was ableto sit still through their foot-stomping, hand-clapping performance had to be either stone deaf or deacl. Last Thursday's Cabaret was fantastic. It was one of the best I've experienced. I can't wait to see the stars of this Cabaret again, although not too soon- not for another week or so. After all, there's only so much talent a body can stand. John Valby at Union Cafe· Hillel An evening spiced with a flavor of Israel; that's what it i~! This Saturday evening, J.S.O.-Hillel is presenting its second spectacular '\Cafe Hillel.\ The evening begins at 9 p.m. in the Cabaret room where you will be able to listen, clap, and dance to the band, 'Y'Hallelu. Y'Hallelu is an area band which performed and delighted the audience at last year's Purim Party. So, if you can't make it to Jerusalem this weekend to go to a nightclub there, come to the Cabaret room this Saturday night at 9 and join us for Cafe Hillel! Tickets are $1 for members and $1.50 for non-members. There will be limited seating and delicious hors d'oeuvres and spirits. For ticket in- formation, contact either Beth Dorogusker at 374-7999 or Alan Ginsburg at 37o-6451. Shalom u'lihitraot! The emcee ofthe evening, Bi:ll DiConza, was superb. His JOBNVAJ.BY . .. GIVES PIANOS ~~··· ...._a..- .. , t ,~·~·' GRI.A.T ~·~ ·-·~ d .... BANDJOBS! COMING: TUESDAY. NOV. 11 8:00 p.m. MEMORIAL CHAPEL TICKETS: $2.50 before with Union I.D., $3.00 at the daor THE: CAST: By STEVE WElL and DOUG SILVERSTEIN You may find John Valby crude; rude, and socially unacceptable, yet his innocence and' humor continue to delight crowds in a disgustingly unique way. His repertoire consists of classical arrangements, ragtime tunes, and popular tunes blended with his imaginative lyrics. This king of raunch will appear at Union College on Tuesday, Nov. 11 at 8 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel .. His concert promises fun, - laughter, and barroom comedy. Valby grew up in Rochester, NY, where he attended Catholic schools. Here, Sisters Edwina and Mary Leo taught him to play piano. After dropping out of graduate school,. he was drafted. Luckily, he spent his service time in Fort Hood, Texas, instead of Vietnam \because a superior officer liked him.\ It was from there he embarked on an entertainment career that has lasted through Reverand Parris .. Bet t . • • · · ·\' • • • • • • • • • .J~ 1 hn Gal nes T't yb,······················-··I..,sn Livshin J. u a ..... •.. c 'I . Ab' . 1 • • •• • ••. •• • • • •• •• a,rrrten ,wartlnez S lgal • •• • • • •• • • • • •• • • • ........ Chris n.hr--Ian A usa~n~. • • · •• • • • • • • • • • •· ••••••• E:lizabeth '3akor Th nn u nam. • •. • .................. Ilene r\iarkay - omas Putnam L M • • • • • • • • • • •••••••• arry Salberg ercy........ St h . . Mar W • • • • • •! • • • • • • • ~ • • • ep a.nle Z~grnan J h Y a·rre:n • • • • • • • • • • • • ......... Jean Carney E~.n Proctor ••••••••••••••••••• Randy Clark P J.za~eth Proct~r •••••••••••••• carol Ghinger · rancJ.s Nurse Ch 1 · R b · • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •.. ar es Ren~na-ti ~~lecca Nurse •••••••• Q •••••••• ,Irma Hamilton R es Cor~y. • • ... •• • •••••••••••• Dr. ~Vill Roth everand Hale Th · Ch •••••• • ••••••• • J... omas d. Farrell H eever • • • • • • • • • • ·• • • , ••••••• , •• Dan Lac Jff a thorn •• • • .. •. •. • • •• • • ••. •. • • ... Lenny Kirsch ~anforth. • • .. • • • • • • •••••••.••••• Daro Beninati Hara~ Good ••••••••••••••••••••• Deme PonLisakos opk J.ns • • • • • • • • • • • • •••••••••••• David Handler - 'w'Jillard ••••••••••• .._ •••••••• ,. ••• Andy Levine dales: llovemlxr 11,1.5,76, 19;20,11,11 al lljhf o·cfoci' rm ~ . Box- \fflc( ofXn: f:Jo-o=3o4a:!j many years and bookings. The entertainer sings mainly about sex with such ease and enjoyment that he makes his \dirt\ seem very clean. His respectable appearance deceives his unconventional performances. \He is an outrageous man who will say anything that corsses his mind and rhyme anyone's name with something obscene.\ Valby instantly establishes a good rapport with the a1,1dience while deriving immense enjoyment from their participation. He is a talented pian·ist, but it seems as if the crowds always scream, \more!\ for his obscenities. Limericks using audlence members' names, golden oldies with the words re-written, and insulting poems about the Ayatollah are among the favorites. The Union College Concert Committee has lured Valby to Schenectady as part of his successful tour. It will be a night not to be missed! J J, .fast am1 Alw nigl sec1 pea! yea1 abo1 gooc bec1 excE N• peo1 noti audi cheE lau~ unh Koli, gem ques disb I'r skep I my hypr noti2 duril In a sho~ light whic sincE \E an 1 work the 1 Rob of F obvi< mate to gE T f(

OONOORDIENSIS, November 6, 1980 Page 7 . . . . . . ' ' cultur~ . ' . ' . ' ' ' ' ' - John Kolisch Holds Nightclub Spellbound ByBOBFOX John Kolisch, the world's .fastest hypnotist, amazed and amused a · Nightclub crowd at Alunmi Gym last Saturday night. This was Kolisch's second. Union College ap~ pearance in two years. Last year he entertained a crowd of about one hundred people. The good news must have spread, because last week's attendance exceeded three hundred. · Not being one to disappoint people, Kolisch put on a hyp- notism show that had the audience gaping and clapping, cheering enthusiastically .and laughing hysterically. A universal reaction to John Kolisch, and to hypnotism in general, must be to wonder, to question, and in some cases, to disbelieve. I'm sure many people had skepti~al reactions to the show. I myself was a bit unsure about hypnotism until Kolisch hyp- notized me in ten seconds during last year's perfonnance. In a conversation before the show last Saturday, he shed light on a few of the questions which had arisen in my mind since last year. \Hypnotism is ·a facilitator, an expediter,\ he said, \It works with what is already in the mind.\ A fine example is Rob McHugh's impersonation of Ro9ney Dangerfield. Rob obviously knew Dangerfield's material, but it took-ilypnotism to get him up in front of the crowd to tell the jokes. He was great! Was it a coincidence that Kolisch chose someone who knew Rodney Dangerfield's material to impersonate him? I don't know. It is not coincidence however, that 1\olisc!J_ does not fail with his first subject. I questioned him on this subject. The answer: E.S.P. \Most people have some degree of E.S.P.\ John Kolisch has developed his to an ex- traordinary level of seventy five percent. Pet~onally, I think the show would have been im- proved by an eXhibition of E.S.P. \The Amazing Kolisch\ has demonstrated his talents to ll}any audiences, including appear~nces on The Tonight Show and The Merv Griffin ShOw. He was repently featured on the CBS-TV special, \The .Magic Sense,\ episode five of '!The Body Hwnan.\ However, Kolisch maintains that his favorite audiences are colleges. · Kolisch studied psychology at the University of Vienna, and it was there~at he spawned .an interest in hypnosis and E.S.P. With twenty seven ·years of experience in the field, John Kolisch is much more than a fine entertainer. Since 1953 he has been a member of the Association to Advance Ethical Hypnosis. Kolisch offers hyp- nosis self-help seminars and workshops to help people with a variety of problems, including \ smokiJ!lg, weight problems, stress related problems (one half hour of hypnosis is equivalent in relaxation to six hours of sleep), and the im- provement of learning methods. The show on Saturday was suitably amazfng. Kolisch en hypnotized his first subjec_t, Bill \E Berman, in less than five 1 seconds, and continued at ·a u breakneck pace the rest of the o:: · night. He invited a number of ·~ volunteers to participate, and 1 chose his final subjects selec- u tively from those volunteers, £ depending on thek suscep- o tibility to hypnotism, and their o powers of concentration. if High points of the evening were munerous. Carla Cogan's commentary of the advantages John Kolisch addresses the audience as Gary Chadick and Judy Sonnenbllck sil by, hypnotized. and disadvantages of having sex with cbpbby people as opposed . to skinny people was hilarious, as was the hypnotic \gong show\. with Gary Chadic~, Howie Cooper, Rob McHugh, Mark Mogul, Sam Post, and Bill Berman. Near the Tunes From Smythe end of the show, Kolisch told Julie Abelman that she could stop smoking, he told a nwnber of girls that they could lose weight and aU the subjects that they could improve -their study habits. Only time will tell, I suppose. In short, Nightclub was a great success last Saturday. John Kolisch turned out to be entertaining, enljghtening, friendly and funny: Thanks again Social Committee. Has everyone heard of Billy Joel? Well, he's a thief. We at Smythe have uncovered an old piece of yellowed paper with a song that closely resembles Joel's song from 1978 titled Honesty. Not that we want to bring charges or anything, we just want it to be known that Eustas P. Smythe was also a musical genius. The following is the Smythe House an- them: - SHOWERING-.to the tune of Honesty If you search for the house of Smythe It isn't hard to find You can find us; it is where we live But if you look for replicas You might just as well be blind It's just like passing nectar through a sieve (CHORUS) Showering is such a lonely word It only should be done with two Showering alone it's so absurd It's something you should never do We can always find someone to take a shower with all we do is wear pads on our knees There's always one more pretty face to take or just to give all you have to do is ask us please (CHORUS) We can find a lover We can find a friend We don't want Security '.::ause they can just pretend Anyone can comfort us It isn 1 t hard to do Although, Although When I'm deep inside of you Don't be too concerned We all use methods of birth control So when we want to party up Tell me where else would we tw-n For Eustas Smythe we would all .sell our soul The world's'fastes.f hypnotist does a quick number on Junior-Bill Berman (CHORUS) Schenectady Museum and Union College 1980- 8'1 CONCERT SERIE-S at Memorial Chapel, College Grounds, Schenectady An International Festival of Chamber MUsic IX . . Bp.m. Sillurday. Nov. 8 . From England ACADEMY OF ST. MARTIN IN THE FIELDS 8 P.M. Wednesday, f'lou. 12 From.England ENGLISH CHAMBER ORCHESTRA , CHO·LIANG LIN, Violinist 8 p.m. Wednesday, f'lou. 19 From England JULIAN BREAM, Guitar_ 8 p.m. Tuesday, Jan..20 From England GABRIELI STRING QQARTET 8p.m. Thursday, Apri./2 . FromtheU.SA. A TRIO:.RICHARD STOLZMAN, Clarinet;. WALTER TRAMPLER. Viola: LEE UIVISI, Piano Second Year A Special Three·Concert Series for 1980·1981 MUSIC FROM MARLBORO Rudolf Serkin, Artistic Director 8p.m. Tuesday, Feb. 3 Bp.m. Monday, March 9 8p.m. Monday, ('1ay4 Outstanding young ilrlists ftom lhe Rudolf Serkin MUSIC FROM MARLBORO Fes.Uvaf in Vermont. Including lwo Naumberg award winners. Plus: fsadore V>hen, ulollnlsl. o{lhe Beaux Arts Trio. Tickets F!;ee for Union Students one hour before per- formance at the door. presents: SOMETH'I:NG SOPHISTICATED A Weekly half hour radio show on Tuesday at ll:OO p.m. This show will feature readings of poetry, short stories, and mysteries. Nov. 11th: Edgar Allen Poe 1 S Black Cat and The Tell-Tale Heart WRUC Albums At Ten 11-6--Dire Straits, \Making Movies\ ll-10--Herbie Hancock, \Mr. Hands\ 11-11--Joe Jackson, \Beat Crazy\ 11-12--Joni Mitchell, \Shadow and Light\ Record One 11-13--Joni MitchelL \Shadow and Light\ Record Two Every Monday thru Thursday at 10 p.m. WRUC features the latest releases. This Saturday at 10 p.m. the RCA Concert Series features Hall and Oates The feature show this week is the Free and Easy Radio Show on Sunday from 11:30 a.m. tp 2:00p.m-

- _ Page 8 OONOOBDIEN~IS, NovembeT 6, 1980 roun am. Us . . . . . ' ·, ' ' . . ,· Hume to Speak on Aging Sally Hume, assistant professor in the Department of Humanities at Schenectady Collilty Community. College and trustee of Union College, will speak at Union Tuesday, Nov. 11. Mrs. Hume was well received last term with her lect~re, \The Sociological Aspects of Aging.\ This lecture will be a follow-up on her spring lecture, with an emphasis on long term care for the elderly. Mrs. Hume will also discuss her upcoming workshop on Nov. 13. The workshop on aging will involve the cooperation of the Medical Society of Schenec- tady, The County Office for the Aging, and The Human Service for Plannfug Council. This event is sure to be a valuable experience for all, as other important information by the Pre-Health Society such as openings· on the executive committee, and what the students can do to become more actively involved in the Pre- Health Society, will be provided. The presentation will begin at 7:30 p.m. in the Student Con- ference Room on the fourth floor of Carnegie Hall. Refresh- ments will be served following the talk. · New Route to Rochester Mall Airways, the Albany- based commuter airline, will began,regularly-scheduled, non- stop service between Albany and Rochester on Nov. 3. In announcing the opening of · the route, ·Mall President Richard Knipe said that the ''Albany-Rochester service represents a marked im- provement in scheduling over flights offered by competing carriers. Mall's flights are scheduled for the convenience of the passenger rather than the airline~ We have studied the needs of our clientele and have Center City Plaza 43.3 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 (518) .393·0:517 established a schedule which corresponds ideally to the · requirements of the business commuter.\ Flights on the new route will leave Albany at 7:25 a.m. and 4:.30 .p.m. daily . except weekends, and ·will leave Rochester at 9 a.m. and 6 :05 p.m. President Knipe commented, ''I view the new service as a natural and logical addition to our activity. Rochester and Albany need more non-stop air connections. Mall will fill this gap in service.\ _ Mysti·c Seaport Program The program in ·American Maritime Studies, accredited by Williams College and: taught at the Mystic Seaport ;Museum in Mystic, Conn., will present information .to interested students at a meeting next Monday, Nov. 17, at 1:30 p.m. Susan Stucke, representative of the program, will conduct an open meeting in the .Dean's Conference Room, in the Science-Engineer;ing Building, S-100. The program is directed by Prof. Benjamin Labaree at Mystic Seaport, and is recognized for credit by Union College. It will run two sessions for 1981-82-a Fall Semester from Sept. 8 through Dec. 22, 1981, and a Spring Semester from Feb. 2 to May 18, 1982. Students attend from eighteen participating colleges, in- cluding Union. Former par- ticipants have included Fran Messina, '79, and Mark Meyers, '82, and Philip Lanza, '83, currently registered. Ms. Stucke will discuss the program, answer questions, and show slides of the activities at Mystic, on shore and aboard ship. All interested· students are urged to attend, any may procure brochures and ap- plications for the program at any time from Dean Nelson in -Science-Engineering S100. Applications will be due locally . ···; ,;{ t 11 1°J\f also in: Mon. - Sat. 10:00 A.M. - 5:30 P.M. Thurs. Eve. to 9:00P.M. Robinson Square .301 Hamilton Street Albany, N.Y. 12210 (518) 4.34-1709 Closed Sundays 164 Jay 5t. Schenectady 1 N.Y. Phone 37 4-2803 Gifts Posters Cards Godiva Choco,lates We wi II ship your gifts Hours: Mon. thru Sat. 10:30 to 5 Thurs. nite to 8: 30 by Feb. 1, 1981. All candidates will be expected to arrange. an interview and tour of the facilities at Mystic Seaport Museum. . r TM Lecture ·on Campus This Monday, Nov. 10 at 8 p.m. in Strauss Lounge a guest speaker, Robert Omansky, will be speaking on the ''Tran• scendental Meditation technique.\ Omansky is a trained and experienced teacher of the Transcendental Meditation Program; who has lectured at nwneroU$ area colleges and universities as well as Adult · Education groups on the topic of 11 How to Release Stress Naturally.\ Omansky, drawing from a volume of scientific research will also discuss developing mental potential, increasing I.Q., improving concentration and social relations as a result of the practice. The lecture is free and open to all interested. An opportunity for discussion will follow. For further information call 370- 4393. R.H.Goddard ..._ Scholarship The National Space Club will · award a $3,500 scholarship for the academic year 1981-1982. The scholarship is i.n memory of Dr. Robert H. Goddard, America's rocket pioneer. The awar~ is given to stimulate the interest of talented students in the opportunity to advance scientific knowledge through· space research and exploration: The 1981 Award Winner will be introduced to the nation's leaders in science, government and industry at the Goddard Memorial . Dinner to be held March 27, 1981. Applicants should apply by letternolaterthanJan.12, 1981, · to: National Space Club, c-_o Dr. Benjamin N. Early, 1629 K Street, N. W ., Suite 700, Washington, DC 20006. Dr. Early is Chairman of the Scholarship Committee . Rockwell Kent Exhibition ~n exhibit of works by American realist painter ,and. lithographer Rockwell Kent will open at Schaffer Library this Friday. i\t 8 p.m., Niskayuna Town Historian Linda Cham- pagne Van Dyke will give a talk entitled, ,., Rockwell :Kent, Artist and Adventurer,'~ sponsored by The FriendS of Union College Ubrary. Van-Dyke's presentation will be held in the Social Sci'ences auditorium (room 016). The Rockwell .. Kent exhibit-- featuring books written and illustrated by Kent, lithographs and letters and other memorabilia on loan from public and Q!'ivate collections- will remam al Schaffer Library through Dec. 12. Born in 1882 in Tarrytown, N.Y., Kent lived on a dairy farm in the Adirondack community of AuSable Forks ftom 1928 until his death in 1971, Kent's paintings are now on display throughout the U.S. arid the Soviet Union, in such places as the Whitney Museum of American A:rt in New York City, the Museum of Fine Arts ill Boston, the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard, the Hermitage Museum in Leningrad, and the Pushkin Musewn in Moscow. A world traveler, Kent authored a number of autobiographical books about his adventures. He also illustrated more .than :1:00 works. At a recent New York City auction, a three-volume edition of Melville's Moby Dick, illustrated by Kent, sold for $1,100. In her presentation, Van Dyke will highlight Kent's friendship with Walter. Rea·gles of Schenectady, former director of the Genral Electric Company conunercial art department. Reagles worked with Kent when the artist designed a mural for GE's display at the 1939 World's Fair. Van Dyke will also present a 1935 film made by Kent in Greenland and a Russian film about Kent's ·work. The Kent emibit will be. on display during regular Schaffer Ubrary hours. CAMPUS EVENTS Friday, Nov. 7 Film ~~Breaking Away\ 10 pm S5016 Friends of Library; Rockwell Kent 7-10 pm 55016 Saturday, Nov. 8 Museum-College Concert Series: Academy of St. Martins in the Fields 8pm Memorial Chapel Hockey: Union v. AI C 8 pm Achilles Rink North All. Campus Party 9:30pm North College Film \Breaking Away\ 8, lOpm S5016 Sunday, Nov. 9 ~, Film ''Breaking Away~~ 8, 10 pm S5016 Tuesday, Nov. 11 Comedian-Songwriter John Val by 8 pm Mem. Chapel Wednesday 1 Nov. 12 Museum-College Concert Series: Academy of St. Martins in the Fie.lds 8 pm Memorial Chapel Film \Casino Royale\ 8 pm S5016 Internship Workshop 3:30pm Placement Office See us on campos. A D . 't 1 t t' f - LSI Manufacturing, Central En. gineering & Product Mark.eting 1g1 a represen a 1ve rom will be on campus on November 19, 1980 t Electrical & Computer li. ngineers, and Computer Science Majors tomee · · For additionaUnfonnation, contact: The- Placement Office - • ThE As.so' Macl ha:vin nesd~ Strau WintE All It be pr alwaJ Re1 Fran• 12:30, atnio1 the p1 cour~ speak welco You Thurs p.m.' Eli2 Resell Colle~ Whip] Beate SpOnSI Histm

•• ln n re te v. It >f lt 0 s. y n . ' if a n n n r OONOORD:IEN81S, November 6, 1980 l ~· - - c assureDs - BULL~TlN BOARD . The Student Chapter of the Associa>tioJJ for Computing Machinery (ACM) will be , having a meeting on Wed- - nesday, ~ov. 12 at 4:30 in Strauss Lounge. Events for . Winter Term will be discussed. . All members are· request~d to · be present. New members are· · always welcome. -~ Remember, .La Table • Fraucaise, c;m Tuesday's at 12:30, in the Pub. A pleasant atmosphere made even nicer by the people, the French, and of course the wine. French . speakers of any proficiency are , welcomed. . YQu are Invited TONIGHT, • Thursday, November 6th, 7:30 -_ p.m. at Social Science 1:15. · Elizabeth Pleck, Center for Research on Women, Wellesley - College will be .discussing \The Whipping Post for Wife- Beaters, 1882-1906\. This is a Public Lecture sponsored by the Department of - History-Rec~ption to follow. Meeting for Juniors in~ charged with '' anti-Sovi·et terested in Health Professions- agitation\ and the spreading of There will be an informational a•nu:.soviet propaganda and meeting for all juniors in- declared mentally ill. .Become terested in the health aware of this violation of human professions on Tuesday, Nov. 11 rights that is practiced in many at 5:00 p.m. in the genetics· lab • countries of the world today- 5301. Dr. Roth will discuss · stop by the Amnesty., Inter- processing of applications to the · national booth in Carnagie Hall health professional schools on November 7th! (Med · School, Dental .School, etc.) and will entertain any questions related to this tepic. This meeting is manadatory. All college owned residence 'halls will close on Wednesday, Deeember 10, 1980, at 12:00 noon for recess. No one 1 may stay in the buildings past this date. Students taking the, Graduate Record Exam (GRE) ·must come to the Residence Life Office to make alternative houSJ:ng arrangements. Help Free a Political Prison·er !--This Friday, ·November 7th, Amn-esty International will sponser· a National Postcard Campalgn.in its efforts to work toward the release of Gennady Kuzetsov. Gennady has been imprisoned in a Soviet psychiatric hospital for the past 14 years .. He was ,. The Annie Schaffer Senior Center (101 Nott Terrace) is having Q Fall Bazaar, Nov. 6 and 7. The Bazaar will feature many arts & crafts booths donated from the 3000 .plus members of the Center as well as workshops and. classes. Biology Club Bake Sale today, 12:00 .p.rn.-4:30 p.m. in _Car- negie, Campus Ministry Mass Nov. 9th--Rev. Anthony Diacetis, STL FCD, officials of the Marriage Tribunal, Albany. Seniors Interested in an MBA- -Qualified Seniors, in any un- dergraduate major,' seeking leadership roles in business management, are encouraged to investigate the opportunities .available to them at Vanderbilt Please fill out the coupon and mail to: Frank leRoy, College Relations Coordinator General Dynamics P.O. Box 3011 Pomona, CA 91766 Name ____ ~---------------------------- Address~--~··------------------------- City _________ State ___ Zip __ _ M~or ______ ~------------------------ Date of Graduation ________________ _ GENERAL DYNAMICS Pomona Division Equal Opportunity Employer M/F U.S. Citizenship Required University. Write: Office of Admission, Room 601, Owen Graduate School of Management, Vanderbilt University, NashvUle, TN 37203. Sc holars'hips-- Vanderbilt University invites outstanding · seniors to compete in its 1981.a2 MBA Scholarshi-p. Program. Write: Office .of Admission, Room 601, Owen Graduate School of Management, Van- ' derbilt University, Nashville, · TN 37203 •. · INT-ERNSHIP, WORKSHOP ... A short information session for students interested in gaining : practical experience in a field of . interest. Sign up in Placement · and Career Resources. To be held Wednesday, November 12, 3:30p.m. Lecture: Professor J. Finkelstein, History Dept., will speak on the topic, Executive Training Programs for Sepior · International Managers, on November 13, at 3:45 p.m. in Bailey 207. Music Improvisation Workshop-Begins Wed., Nov. 12 at 7:00 p.m. If interested see / Prof. Dellario Arts 106, or ext. 6202. .PERSONALS Wayne, I love you and miss you. Rose Happy 2nd Reunion 2nd floor West, November 18, 1978 Uni<;»n Students-Don't forget your friends abroad--write often . • KRG-Where's all ~he gossip you promised? D,S,N N.F.-Be careful, you don't want to het hit . . . ? DC Pete-Draw out that Queen! I bet she ,has green eyes? ·Area Calend.ar· -CONCERT Nov. 7 - The Juliard String Quartet will be perfor. at Cohoes Music Hall at a p.m. The quartet includes two violins, a viola, and a cello. FAffi Nov. 8 - The clock will be turned back at the Cathedral of . All Saints in Albany for the Fourth Annual Medieval Fair. The fair will be. held from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The festivities will close with a .presentation of The Play of Adam, a liturgical drama. For further in- formation,· call 465-1342.: . . ' Nov. 10 - Schenectady Citizens Against Nuclear Warfare \vm present .war Without Winners., a 25-minute dncumentary film on con- temporary nuclear war, 'followed by discussion and coffee-tea. The film will be shown at 7:45 p.m. at Albany Street Methodist Church, corner of Albany and Steuben Streets, in Schenectady. There is no charge. For information please call 374-0369 or 370-4081. FILM Nov. 13 - The Albany Public Library will present the film, El Super, at 8 p.m. in the Main Library, 161 Washington Avenue. The film is shown in Spanish with English subtitles. For more information, call 449- 3380. THEATER Nov. 7-8 - The Disabled Women's Theater Project in- vites the public to a dynamic performance of satire, comedy, and drama at the Capital District Psychiatric Center. The show will be held at 8 p.m. Nov. 11-14 - The Four Seasons Dinner Theater is presenting the 'fony Award winning musical Cabaret. The show follows a full course sit down dinner. For further in- formation, call 438-3985~ lecture on Transcendental Meditation · Program Mon. Nov. 10 8 p.rn. Strauss lounge · for Info. : 320-4393 . ~ ..... ~-. . ·. . ~ . ' .

; I Page 10 OONOORDIENSIS, November 6, 1980 A . 6port One Hundred Ten Percent WOMEN-'S UPDATE Volleyball -- By GINA PERSICO As a child she'd play catch with her dad. In elementary school it was football with the guys. Now at 20 years of age, Lynn LeBlanc, a volleyball, softball, and soccer enthusiast, is still pursuing sports. A junior at Union, Lynn has been playing on the women's volleyball and .softball teams since her freshman year. In addition to being a starter each year for both teams, LeBlanc's first year volleyball season ended with her being named the most valuable. player. The athlete is pleased with the performance of the team which she now co-captains. L:ist year the Union team finished ~5th in the state in Division III college~. With a current record of 1~-6, and the New England Invitational Volleyball Tour- nament victory under its belt, LeBlanc is optimistic for an appearance of the Union women at the NYSAIA W (State Championships) again this year. Her achievements have not been limited to volleyball, however. LeBlanc has been catcher for the past two years on the women's softball team, a position she says she likes best because, \It is one Qf the most active positions, and takes alot of skill and a lot of work.\ LeBlanc has been playing softball, which she refers to as \my sport,\ since 6th grade. \l would play softball over any obstacles,'' she exclaims. Although an avid soccer player in. her high s<:hool days, Lynn was not on Union's soccer team due to conflicting seasons with volleyball. LeBlanc says what she enjoys most about the sports she plays is ''the chance to be with people I like in an atmosphere other than studying.\ She also enjoy~ traveling to other schools:· \It's a tremendous experience to see how others play, and it's a lot of fun playing them,\ the athlete comments. LeBlanc admits that being so active in sports does take _up a lot of her time, but she says, \I've learned to become disciplined and budget my time. Sure, I have to juggle things around and have to use my weekends more for studying, but that's the ptice you pay,\ the electrical engineering major explains. She is quick to add, however, that she never looks upon practices or games as time lost. \I wouldn't play sports if I didn't love them.\ Soccer Ends The Union College women's soccer team, a club sport, ended its first season with an 0-8 record. The Dutchwomen forfeited the last game· of the season on Oct. 23 to Skidmore, 1- ·one assist for two points. Three other players, Carol Wrenn, Mei Ching Tse, and Tracia LaMarca each had one goal for the Dutch- women, who were outscored 40- 8. 0. . Margaret Simmons ended-as the team's leading scorer with four goals and four points, while Dina Pliotis had one goal and Union is expected to offer women's soccer as a club sport again next fall · before con- sidering it for a varsity sport in the fall of 1982. GARNET- the Union Yearbook is now taking orders in Carnegie 12-4:30- $10- seniors $13- all others WE INVITE YOU TO PREVIEW THE EXCLUSIVE COL- LECTION OF CRABTREE AND EVELYN SOAPS, TOILETRIES, AND COMESTIBLES FROM SWITZER- , LAND, AND FRANCE, ENGLANH AND GERMANY NOW AVAILABLE AT CENTER CITY PLAZA. Crabtree 6 Evelyn LONDON 433 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. (518) 393-0317 10:00 am-5:30 pm Mon.-Sat., Thurs. Eve. to 9 pm Closed 9lmdays Akron • Boston • Charleston, S.C. • Concord, CA. • Coral Gables Costa Mesa ., Grosse Point • Houston • Lake Geneva • Miami • New York North Wales • Palo Alto • Provincetown • Rochester • Toronto 'fYson 's Comer, MD. • Washington, D. C. o Westwood LeBlanc feels it's important for her to always keep herself in shape and healthy, and she likes to :give each sport her best ef- fort. ''My style of play is to give · 110 percent whatever the __ situation,'' she emphasizes~ In addition to playing sports, LeBlanc is also a locally rated volleyball official. Although her · interest in officiating games started in high school, it wasn't until she came to Union and met up with Lynne Barta, the Union volleyball coach and chair- person of area volleyball of- fiCials, that she became in- volved. After passing a written test andbeirrg ratedby 3 judges, LeBlanc was pleased to have ·reached the 2nd stage of Local Officials ''on the first shot.\ This entitles her to officiate suburban council games, whicl:l she says, \is exeellent volleyball and brings her one step closer to a state rated of- ficial.\ LeBlanc hopes to keep up sports-once out .of school. She says, \I'll probably pick up some lifetime sport, sucn as temis or raquetbaU.\ She feels that once out of school, it will be , harder for her to get enough people together for team sports, so she's, \getting my fill of them now.\ While she gets her \fill\ of team sports, Union College .is certainly benefitting from this multi-talented athlete. _ IN PRACTICE FOR-~ Volleyball Nov. 14 & 15--NY States Best of Luck, Union BOO tcS GiFTS CARDS 10\29--Union 15, Russell Sage H-;. Union 1.5, Ro~sell Sage 4; Albany 15, Union 6; Albany l5, Un.ion 12; Siena 15, Union lQ; Siena 15, Union 6 (Record 16-6). 11-1--NIAC Tourney: Mt. Holy:oke 15, Union ~5; Mt. Holyoke 1.5, Uni.on 7; Un,ion 15, Russell Sage 8; Russell Sage 15, Union 10; tJnion 15) Russell Sage 9; Wellesley 15, Union a; Welles·ley 15, Un.ion 3. - Socce~ . 10-23--Skidmore 1, Union 0 (Record 0-8-0at end of season) Tennis 10-22--Aibany 7, Union 0 {Record 3-8 at end of season) Field Hockey 10-24--State Tourney: Union 2, Potsdam. 0; William Smith 2, Union l. 10--25--State Tourney: Manhattanvme 3, _Union 0 (Union finishes fourth in the· state} The Ball . By FELICIA SAL VACJON - Union's women's tennis team finished its season on October 24 and 25 at the New York State Tournament. Commenting on his team's perfor~nce, Coach Bob Driscoll said,· \Each girl played the best she could.\ Coach Driscoll also feels that the players. have improved since the beginning of the season. Fourteen women participated in the tennis. team this season, with six singles teams and three doubles teams. Each girl's performance determined whether or not she would play. Frehsman Julie Miller posted the best overall performance of a Union tennis player, by -winning her opening match and finishing the competition with a 4-2 record. The nu.tnber one Over· • IS doubles team, Shelly Eckstein and Karen- Gebhardt, had a record of 7-4 at the states. The second place singles player was Randi Ribakove, and the second place doubles team consisted of Degbie Hofflich and Linda Sher. Bob Driscoll, in addition to having coached the women's tennis team for three years, also coaches the men's hockey team and the baseball team. When asked what he thought of the women's sports program at Union, Driscoll said that it has improved over the past years. He also remarked that the caliber of players is much better. Driscoll pointed out that the tennis team's record is deceiving, to those who do not know the whole story. He said that the emphasis was on im- provement of the game and the player, and that the philosophy of the team was to play to their potential. Driscoll feels that each player lollowed this philosophy, and Union ended up with more skillful players and a greatly improved team. Union's women's tennis team finished the season with a 3-8 record, losing its last five matches. Miller ended the regular season with a 5-6 record -136 Jay Street Down town S ch-enec tad y----- 3·u -211~ · while Ribakove was 4-7. The Gebhardt-Eckstein tandem was 7-4, and Hofflich.Sher. ended at 4-4. - - Dutch Hollow Pub r·his Weekend at~the Pub Friday; 5:30-7:30, Beef & Brew Saturday:· 5:30-7:30,_ Beef & Brew Most D:rinks 75c, Draft Beer 2 for 1 - .(i As Sport! Georg creatE Union the gE Cut1 to thE sched1 where repor progrc: team~ relatic formi news:.: com pi togetb ferent sports togetb good 1 picturE This Athlete Sheila< volleyb Zeifan!! team. Last selectee Team 1 Tourna: season'. week,sl position againsj Sienna. Altho1 position middle running cons idE Barta tCJ team\ setter. Shei11 player,~ and def extremE is one oJ coach E the No' comrnitt Sheila varsity while Cl basltetb;: Slide negie For F: P.O. I outsid condi1

I OONOORDIENSI8~ November 6, 1980 Page 11 6porte 4 George Cuttito: -. Keeping Everyo~e Informed By JIM McGHEE - As Union College,s first Sports Information Director, George Cuttita has had to create methods Which promote Union sports to the students and the general public. Guttita's job entails traveling to the . away football games, scheduling press conferences where ,coaches can meet with reporters, putting together programs for various sports teams, and other public relations duties such as in· forming athletes' local newspapers .of ac- complishments and putting together statistics for the dif- ferent teams. All of the fall sports schedules . were put together by Cuttita. He is also a good photographer and takes pictures of teams and individual players to submit to local papers. His photographic ex- pertise has saved the cost· of a professional to take pictures. Cuttita spends many hours calling other schools for their rosters, schedules and other information important to · spectators. He prides himself on programs with .all the pertinent information, an attractive look, and easy readability. Sports have always been an ~portant and enjoyable facet of Cuttita's life. He stated how he feels about his present job: \The job is my hobby.\ Cuttita worked for the . Schenectady Gazette for six years as a high school sports writer. His interest in sport reporting inspired him to study journalism and English at Empire State College. Cuttita finished college at Albany State with a Bachelor of Arts degree and ·English Teaching Cer- tificate. · Cuttita's .first concer·n with public relations is to get the students interested in sporrts. ''If students on campus who can get free tickets to games don't go, why should anyone go?\ There should be interest within the school before the public becomes active. \If players in sports can't get their ._ friends to come out and ,support .:g them why should others go?\ ~ asked Cuttita. ...J Cuttita will keep advertising, ; and promoting sports within .e Union and publicly; but if V'l students do not support Union, the athletes or their friends, how much public response can a Sports Information Director promote, Qr expect to be printed? S.I.D. George Cuttita Co-Athletes of the Week This week's co-winners of the Athlete of the Week award are Sheila O'Donnell of the women's volleyball team and ~rnie Zeifang .. of the men's soccer team. Last week, Sheila was selected to the · All-Tourney Team at the Wheaton College Tournament, thus adding to her season's credits. Later in the week, she was switched to a new position for the team matches against Albany State and Sienna. Although dominant in her old positions, middle hitter and- middle blocker, she is now in running the offense . and is considered by coach Lynn Barta to be the \backbone of the team\ at her new position, setter. . Sheila is a well-rounded player, excelling in both offense and defense. She has played extremely~well this season and is one ·Of the main reasons why coach Barta will be attending the Nov. 9 selection seeding committee meeting. - Bernie Zeifang Sheila O'DonJ:Jell varsity level. She is a Political Science major and a member of the Delta Gamma Sorority. Sheila has played on the varsity team for four years, while also participating in basketball and softball on the The other co-winner of this week's Athlete of the Week award is Bernie Zeifang, a forward on the soccer team. Last week he scored both goals in a 2-0 win over a fiesty . / Around the World Spring 1981 Join the Semester at Sea, sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh, for an unpQralleled iratemational educutional expe- rience. Sail from Ft. lauderdale, Florida, Februmy 5, by way of South America, Africa, South Asia, and the Orient. Early application recommended. Slide presentatioh will be shown in Conference rm. A Car- 1 negie Hall at 7:30 Thurs., Nov .. 13 and Nov. 20 For Free Color Brochure, call or write: ~emesfer at Sea, Taj .Mahal Buildlng, P. 0, Box 2488, Laguna Hills, CA 92653. Telephone (800) 854-0195 (toll-free outside California) (714) 581-6770 (in California). S.S. Universe is fully air- . conditioned, 18,000 tons, of Liberian registry. Rochester team, thus securing an ECAC bid for the Dutchmen. Zeifang scored· both his goals in the second half against a tough Rochester defense. His first ·goal came in the third quarter, when a scramble erupted in front of the Rochester goal. Amidst the confusion, Zeifang collected the ball alertly and skillfully netted the first Union tally. His second goal came on a .penalty. Adhering to the pressure, Zeifang hit a powerful shot, which eluded the out- stretched hands of the Rochester goalie and insured lJnion 2~ victory. Bernie has had a fine season thus far, as he has acquired five goals and four assists, and still has two more seasons ta look forward to, being only a sophomore. Union Hockey Teams Skates Here Against A.I.C. Saturday Ni-ght. Tickets· Available Through Block U Socie1y For $1 Thursday Night, Nov. 6 at 9:00 & 11:00 p.m. 1st Act The Union Label .. Sisters Joyce & Elaine 2nd Act To be announced ·M.C. Rich Mintz Added. Attraction- 3 Lucky people will get Free tickets to this week's Cabaret- Watch your mailbox ... Come see what's cookin' at Cabaret Go Gamet! ~

Page 12 CONOORDIENSIS, November 6, 1980 eporte Hosts ECAC Tourney: Soccer :Roll's Over Rochester In the regular season action this past week, the Union booters broke even, beating Rocllester 2-0 and losing to Oneonta State 2..0. On. a blustery Tuesday night match at Oneonta State, the Dutehmen admirably attacked a to11gh Division One squad. Union had five shots, while Oneonta had three in the evenly matched first half. Th~ second half opened with more of the same, until Oneonta pressured the Union goal, forcing goalie George Romas Rones to fmnble a hard shot. Neal.\'by to collect the rebound was Tony Heap, who alertly dribbled to his left and then placed an accurate shot past four Union defenders. This first goal came with 11 minutes left, and the Dutclunen could not find the equalizer. With only seven minutes left, Brian Regean flew down the left wing and beat Romas with a powerful short side shot. Alth()ugh Union lost, Coach Bob Magee was not totally disappointed with the team's effor-t \They played a tough game against a g()od team,\ he said. ''I thought the first hall was the best soccer the team played all year, but the goal's just weren't there. When Oneonta· finally did score, our drive was lost.\ On Saturda,y, though, the tide changed and Union snapped its two-game losing streak. with a sound 2·0 vict()ry over Rochester. Union put forth one of its most spirited efforts this season against highly ranked Rochester-one of two teams to beat Ithaca, number one in the state in Division Ill · Bernie Zeifang pumped home two goals to lead the offense. Zeifang now has five goals and four assists on the season. More importantly, though, Union's defense came together to pick up the shutout. The defense was so tight Romas didn't have one shot all day. In the first half, Union had two outstanding chances to jump ahead, but the g()al post played the spoiler. Hans Bukow placed a beautiful long outside shot onto the net, only to see the post reject the ball. Also, Dave Sheridan dribbled skillfully through the Rochester defense, only to see his shot towards the open side of the net hit the post. The sec.ond half saw better luck for the Dutchmen. Chris Morrow, who had an excellent day in his first.start, dribbled up field and unloaded a shot that the Rochester keeper fed right back to him. Morrow alertly placed the ball across to Zeifang's second goal came on a penalty kick, after a Rochester defender had to trip a speeding Mike Canning in the area. ·.Zeifang made the shot look easy, as he nailed it in the lower left hand corner. The loss knocked Rochester out of any post-season ,play. Union played Marist yesterday to finish out the regular season. Marist is the number one Division Two team in the state and number four in the country. Indeed, the Marist squad will be a good warmup for the Dutchmen, who will be ready for the ECAC's on Friday and: Saturday. · i. ECAC PlayoH Schedu.le FRIDAY Noon: Union {8-5) No. 1 v. Hami.lton (7-5) No. 4 2:30 p.m .. : Plattsburgh (7-3-1) No. 2 v. St. Lawrence (7 -5-2) No. 3 SATURDAY 1 p.m.: Championship Game All games on Garis Field PRIC'ES FOR TI:C.KETS: Students with IDs and children--$1 Adults--$2· X-C Eyes States Middlebury Outscores Garnet' 11 ~ Tl:le College cross-country· seas<>n winds down to itst most important stage with Union participating in its two most important meets of the year in the next two weeks. On Satlll'day, the team participates in the New York State Cham- pionships in Fredonia and, one week later, travels to Albany State for the NCAA Regional meet. Despit~ a 4-4 record this year, Coach Ted Bick is looking for at least a repeat of last year's sixtl:l-place finish in the 32-1 team state championships. Bick flatly predicts his top two runners, Ed Arnheiter and Adatn Licht, will finish in the top ten, and says either could finish as high as second. Eick added that Licht and Ar-nlleiter have been running well the whole year and that the succEss of the team will d~pend on the team's th).rd through .... (JJ c .... (JJ _J c <11 > <11· +- Vl >- .0 0 .... 0 .t: Cl. seventh runners. It is here that Bick sees the improvement that ,could transform a good team into a great one. All five rU!Ulers have shown gradual im· provement over the past month and appear ready to c11t even more time off their per- formance. Bick pointed out that such gradual improvement is usually followed by a big improvement for several meets and that his team appears ready to \peak\ now. He noted the team ran a series of 4 times 400 meters in 60 to 62 seconds last Friday and they appear ready. \I'd like to see Jack (Connor) in the top 35,\ Bick said \with Denny (Contois) right behind him. IfDuncanMacKeinzie, Joe Londa and Dave Dellehaut finish in the top fifty, as they should, there's no telling where we could be able to finish.\ 25 YEARS OF SERVICE: Bob Ridings accepts a plaque from . Weldon _Turner_ com111ernorating t:Jis _silyer anniversary of service at halftime of Saturday's football game. P By ED LYNCH It is becoming rather monotonous describing. week after week .how the football Dutchmen could have beaten last Saturday's opponent, but instead found themselves losing as a result of ill-timed rashes of inconsistency and general inexperience. Despite Middlebury's of- fensive production in the previous five games (they had outscored all opponents by a · two to one margin) there was a certain belief among the Garnet ball players that they could beat the Panthers last Saturday. The stats had shown that Union, although outscored on four of five contests, have played their opponents just a bout evenly, with the exception of Tritlity, \ With a home crowd, aild quarterback Dana Johnston back at the hehn, the feeling was that this could be the week when all the loose ends of past Saturdays would mesh and form a pattern to victory. However, as the game got underway, the Dutchmen seemed nervous, intimidated and somewhat confused. Johnston looked unsure of himself, and the backs were simply not hitting the holes. It was this early impotence that lost Union the game. Middlebury quarterback Dave Caputi marched the Panthers to the Union 13-yard~ line in ten plays. From there, kicker, Scott Sandblom boomed a 23 yarder through the uprights. Minutes later, Mid· dleburyJs leading rusher, Jody O'Donnell, got his first of two TD's on the afternoon, as he broke off tackle and scampered 42 yards for the touchdown. After a quick Union possession, Middlebury's John Brennan broke out .of the pack and dashed 53 yards for a score, only to have the _play called back on a. clipping penalty, much to the delight of the 2,5Q.O fans who had come to cheer the Dutchmen on. Union put six of its own points oa the board tn the second quarter, when Johnston engineered a 79-yard drive. The .big play came on a fourth and eight, when J()hnstov hit super split end Henry Wright at the one. Two plays later, Johnston, rolling to his left; found fresh- man. Marc Marro for the touch- down pass. After ex:changing punts, Middlebury faced very poor field position at their own 10- yard-line, with time running out. Just when it seemed that Union would go into the locker rooni down_ by_ only four, things changed radically. O'Donnell, on a third and nine, took a draw 20 yards to the Union 43. Caputi then fired to Ted Virtue, who gathered in the aerial at the Union 20, after it had passed in and out of the hands of Union defensive back George Oberstadt. Caputi's eventual four-yard scoring toss to O'Donnell put the Panthers up 17-6, a lead that they never · relinquished. Union's best offensive play of the day came in the third quarter, when freshman 13ill Huttner went up the middle. ... f Cl) _J $:' <1J > <IJ. +- U'J £ 0 15 .C• a. broke for the outside, and rushed 47 yards for a touch- down. Suddenly Union seemed to have come to life. In the fourth quarter, they had four chances to score. But they were able to capitalize on only one, on Johnston's 17-yard pass to Henry Wright. In the remaining two weeks of the season, the Dutchman will attempt to Salvage some part of this qismal season. In spite of their · lowly 1-5 record, the team's attitude is surprisingly positive. Senior co-captain Carm Audino, who was somewhat disconsolate as the final seconds ticked away, against Middlebury was quick to put things in perspective. \We have .a good team,\ he said. \We've played tough all season, and nave improved a little each day. With a few breaks, we could. have changed this whole thing around~ We aren't going to give up now. We're going to finish up strong. We're going to let Hamilton and Rochester (the Dutchmen's last two opponents) know we've come to play.\ Henry Wright grabs TD pass ·- +- c: ~ > ·.0 0 ...... 0 .c: a. ] an se: fin inE tw pl~ in< po l ac no me pr1 thE WE tee: Co (E na av los ( re1 WCI tm Fr HCI toe the Sa: I Un SOl Du to La Bo ra1 1 r Co ( nir pr< Ha sec: enE I sat Ho thE thr ga1 thE I ere go1 thE Mo bal be1 l fin eat s PI~ Un Tb ga1 str· the ( wiz

I d l- 0 h s 0 n 0 l. t 1 t t ::! 1 l 'I i . l t +- !:: Ql :::.! >- ·.C . 0 .... 0. ..c:: ll.. Sooter .Peter Maloy heads ball in last Saturday's cham- pionship qame against St. Lawrence. November 13, 1980' Volume 110, Number 9 • • . 't - ·r;>). lfJ ' \'I- ,')> \' Overview: ~ Q.:- ~.\ ~ • 4J t:t:: ' ' Q GovEftna·nc~ Structure . . 1\ ( • • • ~ 'li.\ ' \ ... ~ By SCOTT ADAMS· policy on·. ent housing, the \ :· . 1 , dining se . ces, the student The CoUeg.e Govel'~~n~e, ;· ,c.en.ter, _.y ealth .services, System is broken down iil.t:o:.;.a: -~ ·e·<litl1~ef1ng services, career variety of bodies: The general~......._:.c1}iii1seting and placement, faculty; the Student Govern· fraternities and sororities, and ment, Academic Affairs Council advising the Student Forum and (AA:C), Student Affairs Council the Dean of Students ''on (SAC), Faculty Review Board, matters of ·student activities Conference Group, Planning which have a significant impact and Priorities Group, and on student life,\ states the liaison committees. Governance Docilment · (GD). The SAC consists of five The SAC's sub-council on students, two faculty members, Student Conduct \shall hear the Dean of Students, the cases of student misbehavior Associate Dean of and recommend appropriate Undergraduate Curriculum action to the Dean of Students,\ and, without a vote, the Vice states the GD. President for Academic Affairs. Any SAC policy recom- The SAC is responsible for mendation, after being reviewing and recommending reviewed by the Student Forum, academic calendar in which to respond to the policy recom- mendatien.\ says GD. The faculty may take no action, allowing the recommendation to proceed, or the faculty may, after debate, reject the policy recommendation or return it to the AAC with suggested amendments. Rooters Capture ECAC for · possible modification recommendations, is then passed on to the Vice President for Academic Affairs and the President for approval or The Student Forum may, within 10 days of the AAC recolllPlendation, request \a formal reconsideration of the policy recemmendation,\ says GD. The AAC may then with- draw the recommendation, return it to the Student Forum, \explaining why it has not in- corporated suggested amend- ments, or resubmit a modified proposal to the Student Forum\ and the general faculty, says GD. Upon final approval by the general faculty, the proposal is ''forwarded to the Vice President for Academic Affairs and President for formal ap- proval and implementation,\ according to GD. It was supposed to have been an .. enormously successful season if the soccer team could finish with a .500 record. The inexperienced squad had only two returning seniors and was playing a powerhouse schedule, including five Division I op- ponents. But the team, while aclmowledging its youth, could not believe that it was only a mediocre one. They set out to prove themselves, and prove themselves they did. This past weekend, the Union soccer team captured the Eastern Coast Athletic Conference ( ECAC) Division III tour- nament, and in the proceS'S avenged two regular-season losses. On the strength of its 8-5 regular-season record, Union was seeded first and hosted the tourney. In the first round Friday, the Dutchmen played Hamilton, while St. Lawrence took on Plattsburgh State, with the winners advancing to Saturday's final. Many soccer fans found Union's number-one tleeding somewhaf suspect, as the Dutchmen had previously lost to both Hamilton and St. Lawrence. Even team coach Bob Mage.e questioned the rating, especially after a fina12- l regular-season loss to Marist College. On a beautiful_ Friday mor- ning last week, Union set out to prove itself. They had lost to Hamilton, 3-l, in the regular season, and Friday's first balf ended in a 0-0 draw. Both teams broke out in the same style in the second half. However, Union ~wly gained the advantage. With less than three minutes remaining in the game, Bernie Zeifang dribbled the ball down the left sideline. Finding an opening, he crossed the ball in front of the goal. From the opposite side of the field, freshman Chris Morrow lunged at the sinking ball and headeded it past the beaten goalkeeper. Union had made it to the finals. They made up for their earlier defeat to Hamilton St. Lawrence knocked off Plattsburgh, 3-2, to set up a Union-St. Lawrence rematch. The Saints had won the first game 4~1. Union would need a strong performance to knock them off. · On a blustery day, with the wind at their backs. Union took a 1-0 halftime advantage on a Hans Bukow followup of an Andy Dreher blast. As they had been doing all season, the Dutchmen proved themselves when they had to. In the second half not only did they hold off the elements and the St. Lawrence offense, but they continued to dominate the game . on their way to a 1..() viCtory. Union outshot St. Lawrence 29- 6, and secured . g.oalie George Romas-' record-tyi~g _ sixth shutout. The \.500 team at best\ had taken the ECAC Cham- pionshi~. Suinming up the season, senior co-captain John Krum said, \It was a rewarding year, and winning the ECACs was a great way to finish the season.\ Fellow senior and co-captain Mike Canning echoed his sentiments. \We proved to ourselves and to the coach that we were a good soccer team. Winning the ECAC tournament was a real nice way to end a season and a career.\ Overall, the team finished with a 10-6 record.. Dreher, Zeifang and Dave Sheridan paced the. team in scoring. With . this nucleus returning, along with a stro.ng defense led by Pete Cholakis, Ben Levitan and Brian Shea, Union's fine soccer tradition should continue. At Skellar and Pub: disapproval. TheAcademic Affairs Council (AAC), as the name suggests, \shall be re~ponsible for the formulation and recom- mendation of plans and policies for curricular development,\ states the GD. AAC members include: seven faculty mem- bers; four students; the Dean of Undergraduate Curricuh .. un, the Dean of Graduate and Con- tinuing Education, the Vice President for Academic Affairs (witbout vote), and the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Curriculum (without vote). If the AAC makes a policy recommendation, \the general faculty has 30 days in the Forum Opposes Cuts ByJIMDAVIS Meeting Monday evening, the Student Forum was unanimous in its opposition to the procedure followed by the College administration in eliminating Tuesday night drink specials at the Pub and the Skellar. The decision to eliminate Tuesday night specials was made last week by Dean of Students Robert H. Kellett and Thomas J. D'Andrea, vice president for academic affairs, who acted without seeking students' opinions. An an- nouncement . of this new pr.ocedure . appeared in last week's issue of Concordiensis. \We are concerned with excessive drinking among students and don't want to encourage it,\ said Assistant Dean of Students Mike Andolina at the meeting, to explain the reasoning behind the policy change. ':Tuesday night· specials don't help the College's academic image.\ However, Student Forum members took issue with the way the decision was made. Specifically, several said they were ''irked\ that students hadn't been consultf,ld before - the decision was handed down. \The procedure was very wrong because it didn't involve students,\ said Student Forum President Dave O'Connor, who will write a letter to ad- ministrators expressing the forum's displeasure with the procedure followed. Acknowledging that the administration's right, through the College Food Service, which operates the Pub and the Skellar, to set service policies there, the forum nonetheless also voted to oppose the sub- stance of the move to eliminate drink specials. Ten- forum members were in opposition, and four were in 'favor of the decision itself. Forum Financial Vice President, Jim Fisher, ab- stained from the vote, saying he would like more information. Explaining his opposition, Junior Representative, Weldon Turn.er said, \If students want to drink on Tuesday night, they'll find a way to. I know plenty of guys who'll go up to Saratoga on Tuesday nights for specials there if they aren't offered here on campus.\ O'Connor added that elimination of Tuesday specials \could lead to the ad- ministration setting a drinking policy for the entire campus all the..time.\ To measure the opinion on the question of the College ad- ministration policing on- campus drinking, O'Connor suggested taking a poll of student and faculty reaction. He also recommended setting up a meeting of Student Forum members and achninistrators \so that they could give us good reasons for the decision.'' If they can provide such reasons, O'Connor added, the forum would be \ready to support them.\ In a related discussion, Academic Affairs Council (AAC) representative Nancy Gagliano reported that Academic Affairs Vice President D'Andrea has· begun an investigation into rescheduling classes in future years so that more of tbern meet on Wednesdays. \lie's concerned with what he said in effect is a 'second week.end' on Tuesday nights,\ Gagliano said. \A lot of faculty members have been com- plaining lately that students with Wednesday classes have been missing them because they were out late the night before.\ Presently, professors are enc()uraged to schedule four- day-a-week classes so that they have Wednesdays off. Two-day- a-week classes are encouraged to meet on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Any decision to change this policy, and allow professors to choose the days their classes meet will have to be approved by the AAC. \And the council is unlikely to make a recom- mendation without ample consideration,'' Gagliano said. \A. lot .of science professors like to have Wednesdays off from classes so that they can have labs then,\ she noted. \And with the heavy course load of a trimester system, a day offin the middle of the week gives students a chance to absorb everything they've learned.\ · The Student Government system~ other than interaction with other bodies of the College Governance system by Student Forum, is primarily concerned with student clubs and ac- tivities. Tlie general faculty is led by an \executive committee comprising a chairman, a secretary of the faculty, and four additional facu1ty mem- bers who shall be the four chairmen of the academic · divisions,\ says GD. The executive committee is r~onsible ''for developing the agenda for all general faculty · meetings . . . and for advising the Administration on all · ·· matters of concern to the general faculty,\ according to GD. The Faculty Review Board \is charged with recom· mending policy and procedures for review of faculty members for renewal of contract, promotion, and tenurability, and of recommending policy procedurses for detennination of salary levels for faculty ... and making recommendations in individual cases,\ says GD. The Conference Group and the Planning and Priorities Group are both consultation groups whose purpose is tc \assure that the President ol the College will systematically receive advice from faculty, students, and staff on all matters of concern to the College as a whole,\ says GD. The Conference Group is responsible for advising the President, at his· request, on matters of immediate concern, including ''emergency situations, bottlenecks in the governance system, the creation of ad hQc task forces, .. . and the treatment of any problem which falls outside the normal functioning of the governance system and ad- ministration,\ says GD. The Planning and Priorities Group is designed to review and make recommendations on long-range planning, College priorities, and the preparation of annual budgets, to the President. It is concerned with \all non-academic issues of long-range importance,\ ac- cording to GD. Liaison committees exist for

Page 2 CONOORDIENSIS, 'November 13, 1980 Editorial: Never on Tuesday Students here, the College administration has told us, tend to drink too much on Tuesday nights. To cut down on this consumption, the Pub and the SkeHar have been made to discontinue offering Tuesday night drink specials. {See story, Page 1. ) The likelihood of this decision's having its desired effect, as well as the logic behind it, are both open to question. If students want to drink on Tuesday--or, for that matter, any night of the week--they'll find a way to, regardless of whether the already-low wine, beer and booze prices on campus are reduced a little bit more. The justification for the move, administrators say, is that the· Pub and the Skellar are operated by the College Food Service, and the College doesn't want to encourage excessive drinking, especially on weeknights, when students are likely to have classes the next day. Excessive consumption is never to be condoned, and it is important for the administration to make its feelings clear on this matter, But we wonder if eliminating Tuesday specials is the best way to do this. Doingaway with Tuesday specia;ls in the Pub and Skellar comes off primarily as a slap in the face to students' sensibility and judgment. As Dean of Students Robert H. Kellett, who helped make the decision, said: \After students leave Union, they'll have drink specials offered just about every night of the week.'' Now, we're not suggesting that such a policy be instituted here. But students shoUld exercise enough common sense to know when and how much alcohol to consume. Those who can't or don't are not likely to be around here for too long, and probably shouldn't have come here in the first place. The College does have an obligation to look out for students' welfare, but determining the pricing policy of the on-campus watering holes doesn't seem to be included i:n that obligation. Rather, telling the Pub and the Skellar not to cut their prices on Tuesdays serves as an affront to the vast majority of the student body that knows how to handle its liquor. What is far more distressing, though, is the manner in which this decision was made .. Dean Kellett and Vi.~e President for Academic Affairs Thomas J. D'Andrea prohibited Tuesday night • specials without bothering tb seek students' views on the subject. Surely the urgency of this matter did not justify the heavy-handed manner in which it was carried out. No matter what administrators and faculty members think about the effect of Tuesday night drinking on studel)ts' academic performance, they owt> students the right to have their voices heard-- before any decision is made. Such an opportunity no longer exists. But the suspension of Tuesday specials is not yet permanent. BefQre any binding move is made, students should be consulted. We hope they are. And we also urge students to take an active interest in this matter, for its effects will touch on far more than just the price of some Tuesday night drinks. Dean Kellett has said that this decision is just the first step in an effort by the administration to monitor an aspects of alcohol consumption among ·students. If students do not give this issue serious and reasoned consideration, or, worse yet, act in such a manner as to justify further such regulation, then it will only be students who will be to blame. The administration has told us to watch our step. Now it is up to us to act in a responsible manner-·or \\e will be the ones who have to pay the con- sequences . ...... coli¥ .. • concor0ien&16 Editors-in-Chief Jim Davis, Julie Isgro News Editor Gale Vanore FeaturesEditor Juct,rChervenak Arts Editors Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Photo Editor Richard A. Sher Sports Editors Bill Curtin, Rich Hope Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowicz Sports Photo Editor. Steve Lerner Layout Editor Rachel I. Mandel Business Manager Lawrence C. Leavitt Advertising Manager Jeff Scardino Subscriptions Editor Ellen Be:rger Calendar Editor Maria Manfredonia Staff Claire Burchill, Sharon Camins, Charis Richards Photo Staff Kent Avery, Michael J;. Elkins, Charis Richards CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. Students Views on ·Reagan :By ROBERTA RUBINSTEIN Ronald Reagan, at the age of 69, was elected to be the 4oth president of the United States in an overwhelming victory. Televised interviews revealed \Reagan was winning blue collar Democrats in large numbers, cutting heavily into both the Union vote and Car- ter's Southern base.\ It would be no un- derstatement to say that in recent years the majority of the population has felt an over- whelming sense of dissatisfaction. There are not many of us who have been unaffected by the pangs of unemployment ·and inflation. The students questioned on this matter also want change, but few of them feel that Reagan is the change we are looking for. The majority of the students feel they were voting between the \lesser of two evils.\ Many feel Carter was the lesser evil. One student, in response to my question as to how she felt when first hearing Reagan was elected President, stated, \I felt nauseous\; anothe1· described his i·nitial feelings as ''helpless.\ When I questioned students on Why they felt, like this, one student, Elizabeth Baker, went on to saythat, \For all practical purposes, l don't think he even acknowledges that women exist.\ She went on to clarify by quoting Reagan's sentiments on the ERA and abortion. Neither did I find many male students in favor of Reagan. When asked to explain his op- position to Reagan, Drew Hurley said tha~ he feels that \Reagan ahows streaks of racism and tendencies toward anti-semitism.'' He also commented on Jane Fonda's statement, ''Reagan was a lousy actor and he'll make a lousy president.\ Drew, like many students, felt that the President, be he Reagan, Carter, AndetsonorEd Clark of the Libertarian party, would not affect him directly. He and others like him are disappointed that this was the man chosen to represent the United States. Will Lloyd concluded ''The American people have made a mistake.\ Mike Shutts, on the same matter, fears \not so much the new President, but the more significant change af- fecting us, which is the changing of hands in the Senate; it has been a Jong the lines of 20 years that o9.1' Senate has been dominated by Republicans.'' No one can say for sure what this change means. Union students are ifl. agr,eement that we need a chang~ hut again, is . this the change . that we're looking for? One student I found sup- porting Reagan felt, \The country needs him. Democratic government has gotten out of hand; just look at inflation.\ Another student elaborated, \Yes I feel Reagan will put the reins oil spending and put American policy back in the right persp.ective.\ When asked, ''How do you think our country will fare o..,.er the next four years?\ The same student replied, \1 worry about his foreign policy, for there is little known about it, and at tbis point, it's a crucial rnatter, but internally, I feel he'U do a fantastic job. What our country needs right now is a die hatd conservative.\ Reagan is a man bent on restoring traditional values in order to ''make America great agaih.'' The el'ection-of Ronald Reagan does not necessarily mean that our people want this restoration .of traditional values, nor does it mean that we expect the changes he has proposed to make. It proves ' little m()re than our desperate desire for change-change ·of any sort. .... c Ql ~ >- .0 0 .... 0 .c ·a. ] r r r I ( j r i: ~ p ,p p a h e d _( tl n p F .f4

Page 2 CONGORDIENSIS. November 13, 1980 Editorial: Never on Tuesday Students here, the College administration has told us, tend to drink too much on Tuesday nights. To cut down on this consumption, the Pub and the Skellar have been made to discontinue offering Tuesday night drink specials. (See story, Page 1.) The likelihood of this decision's having its desired effect, as well as the logic behind it, are both open to question. If students want to drink on Tuesday--or, for that matter, any night of the week--they'll find a way to, regardless of whether the already-low wine, beer and booze prices on campus are reduced a little bit more. The justification for the move, administrators say, is that the Pub and the Skellar are operated by the College Food Service, and the College doesn't want to encourage excessive drinking, especially on weeknights, when students are likely to have classes the next day. Excessive consumption is never to be condoned, and it is important for the administration to make its feelings clear on this matter. But we wonder if eliminating Tuesday specials is the best way to do this. Doingaway with Tuesday specials in the Pub and Skellar comes off primarily as a slap in the face to students' sensibility and judgment. As Dean of Students Robert H. Kellett, who helped make the decision, said: \After students leave Union, they'll have drink specials offered just about every night of the week.\ Now, we're not suggesting that such a policy be instituted here. But students should exercise enough common sense to know when and how much alcohol to consume. Those who can't or don't are not likely to be around here for too long, and probably shouldn't have come here in the first place. The College does have an obligation to look out for students' welfare, but determining the pricing policy of the on-campus watering holes doesn't seem to be included in that obligation. Rather, telling the Pub and the Skellar not to cut their prices on Tuesdays serves a.s an affront to the vast majority of the student body that knows how to handle its liquor. V\.'hat is far more distressing, though, is the manner in which this decision was made. Dean Kellett and Vi.~e President for Academic Affairs Thomas J. D'Andrea prohibited Tuesday night specials without bothering to seek students' views on the subject. Surely the urgency of this matter did not justify the heavy-handed manner in which it was carried out. No matter what administrators and faculty nwmbers think about the effect of Tuesday night drinking on studel)ts' academic performance, they ow~-> :-;tud!:'nts the right to have their voices heard-- before any decision i.s made. Such an opportunity no longer exists. But the suspension of Tuesday specials is not yet permanent. Bdore any binding move is made, students should be consulted. We hope they are. And we also urge students to take an active interest in this matter, for its effects will touch on far more than just the price of some Tuesday night drinks. 01:-'an Kellett has said that this decision is just the first step in an pffort by the administration to monitor all aspects of alcohol consumption among students. If students do not give this issue serious and reasoned consideration, or, worse yet, act in such a manner as to justify further such regulation, then it will only be students who will be to blame. The administration has told us to watch our step. Now it is up to us to act in a responsible manner--or \~ e will be the ones who have to pay the con- sequences. Editors-in-Chief Jim Davis, Julie Isgro News Editor Gale Vanore Features Editor Judri: Chervenak Arts Editors Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Photo Editor Richard A. Sher Sports Editors Bill Curtin, Rich Hope Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowicz Sports Photo Editor . Steve Lerner Layout Editor Rachell. Mandel Business Manager Lawrence C. Leavitt Advertisirtg Manager Jeff Scardino Subscriptions Editor Ellen Be:rger Calendar Editor Maria Manfredonia Staff Claire Burchill, Sharon Camins, Charis Richards Photo Staff Kent A very, Michael J. Elkins, Charis Richards CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. Students Views on Reagan By ROBERTA RUBINSTEIN Ronald Reagan, at the age of 69, was elected to be the 40th president of the United States in an overwhe'lming victory. Televised interviews revealed \Reagan was winning blue coHar Democrats in large numbers, cutting heavily into both tihe Union vote and Car- ter's Southern base.\ ft would be no un- derstatement to say that in recent years the majority of the population has felt an over- whelming sense of dissatisfaction. There are not many of Hs who have been unaffected by the pangs of unemployment and inflatioa. The students questioned en this matter also want change, but few of them feel that Reagan is the change we are looking for. The majority of the students feel they were voting between the \lesser of two evils.\ Many feel Carter was the lesser evil. One studeat, in response to my questioN as to how she felt when first hearing Reagan was elected President, stated, \I felt nauseous\; another described his initial feelings as \helpless.\ Wben I questioned students on why they felt. like this, one student, Elizabeth Baker, went on to say that, \For aH f)ractical purposes, I don't think he even acknowledges that women exist.\ She went on to clarify by quoting Reagan's sentiments ·on the ERA and abortion. Neither did I find many male students ht favor of Reagan. When asked to explain his op- position to Reagan, Drew Hurley said that he feels that \Reagan shows streaks of racism and tendencies toward anti-semitism.'' He also commented on Jane Fonda's statement, ''Reagan was a lousy actor and he'll make a lousy president.\ Drew, like many students, felt that the President, lile he Reagan, Carter, Anderson or Ed Clark of the Libertarian party, would not affect him directly. He and others Hke hinl are disappointed that this was the man chosen to represent the United States. Will Lloyd concluded \The American people have made a mistake.\ Mike Shutts, on the same matter, fears \not so much the new President, but the more significant change af- fecting us, which is the changing of hands in the Senate; it has been a long the lines of 20 years that ott Senate has been dominated by Republicans.'' No ene can say for sure what this cl:tange means. Union students are ih agreement that we need a change~ but again, is . this the change that we're looking for? One student I found sup- porting Reagan felt, \The country needs him. Democratic government has gotten out of hand; just look at inflation.\ Another student elaborated, \Yes I feel Reagan will put the reins on spending and pUt American policy back in the right perspective.\ When asked, \How do you think our country will fare e¥er the next four years?\ The same student replied, \I worry about his foreign policy, for there is little known about it, and at this point, it's a crucial matter, but internally, I feel he'll do a fantastic job. What our country needs right now is a die hard conservative.\ Reagan is a man bent on restoring traditional values in order to \make America great again.\ The election-of Ronald Reagan does not necessarily mean that our people want this restoration of traditional values, nar does it mean that we expect the changes he has proposed to make. It proves ' little more than our desperate desire for change-change of any sort. ··L·· .. ·········t~·:·'··'·t· ··· ,_- . =e.:~-~~ .. ·.···. ,.'·. · , •....... ··r· ·s. ·. 0 .• . ;. ·-;,. -· ·:-•::: :.(·:_·. . _,,, -:-.:-: .• -_-. '' . :·. • > Fraternity Vandalism Dear Union C<>llege Com- munity. yourself. Extremely .Annoyed, Sharon Moss, '81 EQlTOR •s NQTE: it , was ' We of Alpha Delta Phi ate incorrectly reported hi the asking you to help us with what Oct()ber. 30 issue of Con- has become a serious problem.. eordiensis that Jack ·connor, In the past month, we have lost 'Captain of, the Union cross- more then $1;00() dollars in country team, had said in stol-en articles. One of the things regard to the woman's team, we are missing is an antique \I'm glad you girls got out of clock, which is priceless. It was the kitchen and started run- given to us many years ago and ning. •• What C()nnor actually is a special house monument. said was~ HNot bad for girls who We are also missing two pic- run. like· they,ve been in the tures. One is a picture of our · kitchi:m toiJ long/' Connor also crest. This consists o.f ~ shield wished to congratulate the which is green and white, With a team. · knight shielded and facing left. The other is a picture ot old Alpba Delta Phi houses. Finallyt we are missing our 1980 composite,. the second com• posite we have lost in two years. Rasmussen Thanked · I£ any one (independent, Dear Editt)rs: fr:aternity, s&r()r.ity, we don't · care) has these articles or . knows who does;. pleas€ retmn them or have them ~urned. N'O questions will· be asked. .. The Brothers of the Union · Chapter 'of Alpha Delta Pbi thank you for your enoperatiM. 'Fhe Btothets'6f Alpha Delta Phi Harrier, Cr iti·<>ized I would like to thank Robert Rasmussen for the opportunity to act a;s tbe cqllege' s Iiason p~rso¥ (Qieik of the Works) for . HTfle t;rptoq. oe People~· nt6V:ie' prodfictlr.t!h!twas a el!aJlenging buten ob~ble ~i;gmn~nt. in writing tlli.s r 1 is .to .Jet you .. . . .. coppecati~n from faeul~y, students .and . other pert:H>nnel was <>u.t$ta,n Th~~r ~tl}lJ!elf~ti()n®lde; mY: j easy. I hp~ tht;l.'e 1$ .a way that- too can t;onvey my .~h(l~bts .tQ .. the College eomm'Utlity, .·.· < • correctly cooked, dehydriited, distasteful, · constantly reheated, and generally anacceptable for consumption . by any form of life, especially that of the human species. Students that are freshman at Union are forced til pay exor• bitant sums of money for meals that on the majority of oc- casions cannot be digested. This meal plan cannot only be protested because 6£ the poor quality of food but because of the fact that we are required to . eat in this \sham'' of a dining facility. Diners often find that they exit the dining hall with half- empty stomachs, as they cannot find anything desirable to eat. Repeatedly, these students find . it impossible to complete their night studies, as they have acute pains reverberating from the hollows of their stomachs. It is at this time that students are faced with spending un· necessary monies to purchase food to ·fill the huge crevices in their stomachs • One fres1unan stated that his do-g at hGme eats better than most people who hold meal ca:rds at Union. Another stated that he was considering tran· sferring as the only nieans of escaping the meal predicament at West College. It is indeed a shame that Union will lose .an element of its diverse student bo'dy .. because of its eating faetlitie§. . To the EaitorS~ · We\must a:l~o state· that there '!D a period during tbe ye.a.r, the' early part of this semester' · cu... · 1 . Wht~r:& the food program was · · · ·· · olu¢et~$t;. qlii;te adequate. Unfortunately~ . l'IJ? ~ure d}s~ppoif!te(i in Jack .'Conno.r~s ~otnment , congr~tUlittitig Jlt@. wom~p'S . ~osS..tioUfitrY . t~ . mr tbelr aecompii:;;htnents> -~~rm . s~ · glad. :rou ail• got .:Qut .. or. tne Mt- . ehen and rtu·v: . He. has · iUmtrated. just tlilf mmtafity that has kept woJB~ll in the kitchen fo-r so ~~if . ' ·· .I>$ ,94';) needs to be·. r \ tll¢ · womerf here fit his · ~):tda:lfi,f'httetiie! need tb spe- o;f' them ... .$(} degradfnftJ.y; Sb, iai!k; in .the fut•ur:e; ·pleas.~ ke¢p YO'lir .. ch~uvtmlstic ~~m~nt •P Charle~ S. Van WormEtr · . · ..•. · tUili'· ?'~··.· .• h.'. as' .. · · 8 ·_-t\'\.···dil.v deeUn~·· ed. Class ot 1931;' \ ..... r .. hiS level. It 1s also nn· . Go West? D¢ar Editm:,; · . . Thisl~tteris being eompused ·in reaction to ·the 1,l1la(i)ceptable mndt conditiolis tlmt ;i''teBhmet.i:. are foreed,toAlcc~pt at the West Q)llege dinm faeility; ifhe ff!oQ.,, or. · Yfe, .. say bY\ ptoduets., . . . . . cafeteria ~ave pro:v~n vepea-temy- ·tQ: <be, in'\ t to show our thanks for t}fe. (~specl~\ meals that we are n,n yery few occasions blessed Witfl~ These meats are gu()d and tefl:etrt that the .oafetetia can . make an a~ceptable showing whtM:they desire. However, one me~l · cannot erase tbe inaqUities ahd hunger suffered in the past: . Sincerelyj A groupofllungry people from ~d · floorWest ' i ! i I I l l >- .0 0 .... 0 ..t: a. I rr is C< pi p: pl al ht er dE (s tr n< p! F1 fo ' ( I I

' ' CONCORDIENSIS, November 13, 1980 Page 3 Abbie Hoff·mon: 'A Believer • 1n the System' By RICHARD A. BENEDICT and ALAN M. SAUNDERS Speakers Forum guest Abbie Hoffman speaks last Wed- nesday in Memorial Chapel. \I promise you that if you take two of these (aspir·in) with a glass of water, the next four years will go away.\ This opening statement by Abbie Hoffman in his speech last Wednesday at Memorial Chapel set the tone for the remainder ·of the evening. IFC Meeting: Party Fees? Hoffman, founder of the Youth International Party (Yippies), spoke on various topics, combining unilateral discussion with ~uestions from the audience. He expressed his dislike of the press,' yet had agreed to appear at a press conference be~ore his speech. Students attending fraternity parties here may have to start paying an entrance fee as a result of a policy ·decision an- nounced ·by Inter-Fraternity Council (IFC) President Anthony Kockinbrink. At the IFC's most recent meeting, Nov. 4, Klockinbrink issued the following statement: \Prompted by the excessive ~ost of parties, destruction of property which occurs during parties, and the common practice of freely distributing alcohol and services, it _, is hereby the policy of the IFC to endorse any fraternity which decides to charge a nominal _(such as 50 cents or 1.00) en- trance fee to non-fraternity or non-sorority members for parties.\ Klockinbrink told the Student Forum of the decision at the forwn's Monday night meeting. Final Examination Schedule Corrections: Wednesday, December 3 - 9-11 a.m. Economics 10-Efementary Economics-Sec. 2-Prosper- • S.S. 115; Sec. 3-Ginsburg-s.s. 113. ' History 121--American Constitutional and Legal History: The Federal Experience--Allen-Hu. 016. C.E. 150-Water Resources-- Snow-Bu. 104. Assistant Dean of Students Mike AndoHna, who was also at the forum :meeting, advised-him to investigate the legality of such g procedure before it is implemented. In other business, tbe IFC agreed to place the fraternity bid box in front of the West College dining hall during lunches and dinners from Wednesday through Friday of this week. Therefore, tomorrow is the last day this bid box will be out. Bids \matching\ when fraternities find out which freshmen they've offered bids to have chosen to pledge their respective houses, will take place at tomorrow night's IFCmeeting. House representatives to the IFCwere also reminded that all fraternities and sororities must put a statement into their by- laws prohibiting pledge hazing. Friday, December 5- 9-11 a.m. Philosophy 15--Philosophy and Existential Literature-- Patrik-Hu. 117; C.E. 35-Water Resources and The Environ- ment (Non C.E. Majors) Snow- Bu. 104, Bu. 106, Bu. 109. Monday, December 8 - 2-4 p.m. Sociology 62-•Social Data Analysis--Hartwig-s.s. 113 Tuesday, December 9 - 2-4 p.m. E.S. 41 (Electric Circuits I Sec. 1-Kump-8.H.110; Sec. 2- -Branch-N 116. Hoffman appeared nervous there, and acted as though judgment was being passed on him as an \e;x:-yippie-zippie- dippie, turned· fugitive, now back t? be movie mogul.\ When asked about the .charge of his selling cocaine to an undercover agent, from which he fled in 1973 and for which he now faces 15-years-to-life im- prisonment if convicted, Hoff- man appeared reserved and somber. He referred to it as the \messy little business in New York City,\ and said that cocaine \should be classified with amphetamines and diet pills.\ He added that the trail was at a \delicate stage, but something should be resolved before Christmas.\ The proximity of his surrender and the release of his autobiography, entitled \Soon To Be a Major Motion Picture,\ was also discussed. Hoffman claimed the two events to be \fa1rly coincidental\ and felt this allegation was due to the \jaded attitude of reporters.\ Continually throughout the press conference, Hoffman spoke of what he sees as his accomplishments and his service to the good of several Around the World Spring 1981 I Join the Semester at Sea, sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh, for an unparalleled international educational expe- rience. Sail from Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, Pebruary 5, by way of South America, Africa, South Asia and the Orient. Early application recommended. Slide presentation will be shown in Conference rm. A Car- negie Hall at 7:30 Thurs., Nov. 13 and Nov. 20 For Free Color Brochure. call or wri!e: ~emester at Sea, Taj Mahal Building, P.O. Box 2488, laguna Hills, CA 92653. Telephone (800) 854-0195 (toll-free outside California) (714) 581-6770 (in California). S.S. Universe is fully air- conditioned, 18,000 tons, of Liberian registry. groups while being persecuted by society as a whole. As evidence, he claimed the \F.B.I.. played quite dirty,\ by compiling some 24,000 pages of records, showing he has un- dergone 150 wiretaps, as well as . being burglarized. Hoffman also spoke with affection of his life as Barry Freed prior to his surrender., living in the Thousand Islands on the St. Lawrence River in upstate New York. Prior to this, he had d0dged authorities throughout North America and met Joanna Lawrenson, with whom he lived. As Barry Freed, he co- founded the ''Save The River Committee,\ which suc- cessfully prevented the Army Corps of Engineers from destroytng small islands to make winter navigation possible. He appeared in the news, testified before a Senate subcommittee and, as a result, received complimentary letters from several electeg .officials. Hoffman was comfortable and at ease 'in front of students in Memorial Chapel. His speech was political, and concentrated on the Presidential election of the previous day. !lis prediction is that the Reagan era will in- clude \very turbulent times, with a dangerous shaky finger on the trigger.\ Hoffman also joked of wat- ching Reagan's version of winning the West on television and then, in a very reserved, wavering voice, said, \But no one bleeds.\ He viewed the election as a decision between the \evil of two lessers,\ despite voting for Carter in 1976 under ·alias, adding that New Sorority:' \Reagan wiU be the easiest President to organi:ze against,\ and predicting that ''Teddy (Kennedy) will emerge as the leader of the Democratic party.\ Hoffman's involvement as Yippie leader in the 1960's is only one indication of his philosophy that \you don't have to take things the way they are\. Despite his eften radical tradition, he claimed, \I am a believer in the system.\ Abbie Hoffman was a major force in the couferculture of the 1960's. He is a man of radical beliefs whose attempts of change resulted in beatings, jailings ancL in 1968, charges of conspiracy. He epitomized the · youth ofthe era, fearing nothing and striving for what he believed in. But, some 10 years later, the youth is gone. No longer was there an American flag draped across his body; in its place, last Wednesday, he wore a blazer. No longer is his youth evident; middle age has crept up. No longer were his radical ideas of direct action discussed; instead he talked about petitions and discusyion groups. No longer were leftist pamphlets distributed; instead, letters preaddressed to Hugh L. Carey to help his trial. No longer are the ex-Yippie leaders staging protests; •Jerry Rubin is working on Wall Street and Abbie Hoffman is raising funds for his trial by speaking publicly. Nonetheless, despite plastic surgery and a change in voice, Abbie Hoffman is still Abbie Hoffman, trying to change what he doesn't believe in. Greek.s to Visit By NAOMI BLANK This Monday at 7 p.m. the sorority Delta Delta Delta ( \Tri Delta\) is scheduled to make a presentation to inform Union students about its intention to colonize here. It is the final step toward the formation of a chapter· here. Kappa Delta, another sorotity that intended to attempt colonization at Union, withdrew from the presen- tation. \Witp Kappa Delta's with- drawing, Tri Delta's national board Js reconsidering whether or not they want to colonize here/' said Assistant Dean of Stud-ents Mike Andolina Tuesday night. ''They probably won't reach a decision until late in the week.\ He also advised women considering pledging a sorority to take this into con- sideration. The process of selection was a long one. SlPilming up the procedure, Assistant Dean of Students Mike Andolina stated, \We contacted several sororities to see which were interested in establishing a colony at Union. We narrowed the selection down to those who had strong local alumnae support, strong national sup- port, and those who continued to show their interest in us.\ Regarding the choice of sororities, Alice Crotty, a local alumna of the Schenectady Chapter of Panhellenics, stated, \They wanted a sorority that has alwnnae in the area to help establish a chapter.\ A charter takes ap- proximately six months to a year to write, depending on national rules. The number of sisters will be determined by the level of interest. The need for more choice has been an idea expressed by Union co-eds. The amount of interest is the major factor involved in many of the existing concerns. \The options of housing,'' for example, \are being taken into consideration,'' Andolina said. No immediate answer exists. Both Sigma Delta Tau and Delta Gamma are enthusiastic and supportive. Mary . Beth Burnett, president of Sigma Delta Tau, feels \it's great that new sororities are trying to colonize.\ She also feels that \there's a lot more interest now than in the past\ and hopes \the new sorority is able to colonize.\ Jill Thomson, president of Delta Gamma, is also \looking forward to more sororities\ and feels they \will strengthen the system.\ At Syracuse University, the Omicron chapter of Tri Delta is housed. Kelly Shipley, Tri Delta rush chairman at Syracuse will be one of the speakers at the presentation Nov. 17. She feels that \the sorority system is generally a plus to a campus becapse it brings people together. The Greek system in general is good for campus life.\ Regional. chapters, such as the one at Syracuse University, assist in the process. Local alumnae of the Schenectady Chapter of the Panhellenic also took part in helping Union set up for the presentation. The National Panhellenic Con- ference set the rules which the total procedure followed. The Conference sets requirements pertaining to the extension of chapters and assists with suggestions. It states \The college Panhellenic will need to furnish on-going assistance to the new chapter until it is firmly established.\ The rules are understood and enforced. Interest is the major factor in the success of the colonization of Delta Delta Delta at Union College. The finalization of becoming a charter will depend on this demqnstrated interest.

\ I I OONOORDIENSIS~ November 13~ 1980 Page 3 Abbie Hoffman: 'A Believer • 1n the System' >- ..... (!) > <{ Speakers Forum g.ues.t Abbie Hoffman speaks last Wed. nesday in Memorial Chapel. IFC Meeting: Party Fees? Students attending fraternity parties here may have to start paying an entrance fee as a result of a policy decision an- nounced by Inter-Fraternity Council (IFC) President Anthony Kockinbrink. At the IFC's most recent meeting, Nov. 4, Kiockinbrink issued the following statement: ''Prompted by the excessive cost of parties, destruction of property which occurs during parties, and the common practice of freely distributing alcohol and services, it is hereby the policy of the IFC to endorse any fraternity which decides to charge a nominal .(such as 50 cents or 1.00) en- trance fee to non-fraternity or non-sorority members for parties.\ Klockinbrink told the Student Forum of the decision at the forum's Monday night meeting. Final Examination Schedule Corrections: Wednesday, December 3 - 9-11 a.m. Economics 10-Elementary Economics-Sec. 2-Prosper- · S.S. 115; Sec. 3-Ginsburg-s.s. 113. History 121--American Constitutional and Legal History: The Federal Experience-Allen-Bu. 016. C.E. 150-Water Resources- Snow-Bu. 104. Assistant Dean of Students Mike Andolina, who was also at the forum meeting, advised him to investigate the legality of such a procedure before it is implemented. ln other business,. the IFC agreed to place the fraternity bid box in front of the West College dining hall during lunches and dinners from Wednesday through Friday of this week .. Therefore, tomorrow is the last day this bid box will be out. Bids \matching\ when fraternities find out which freshmen they've offered bids to have chosen to pledge their respective houses, will take place at tomorrow night's IFCmeeting. House representatives to the IFCwere also reminded that all fraternities and sororities must put a statement into their by- laws prohibiting pledge hazing. Friday, December 5 • 9-11 a.m. Philosophy 15--Philosophy and Existential Literature-- Patrik-Hu. 117; C.E. 35--Water Resources and The Environ- ment (Non C.E. Majors) Snow- Bu. 104, Eu. 106, Bu. 109. Monday, December 8 - 2-4 p.m. Sociology 62--Social Data Analysis--Hartwig-S.S. 113 Tuesday, December 9 - 2-4 p.m. E.S. 41 (Electric Circuits I Sec. 1-Kump-S.H.llO; Sec. 2- -Branch-N 116. Around the World By RICHARD A. BENEDICT and ALAN M. SAUNDERS \I prarnise you that if you take two of these (aspirin) with a glass of water, the next four years wiH go away.\ This opening statement by Abbie Heffman in his speech last Wednesday at Memorial Chapel set the tone for the remainder of the evening. Hoffman, founder of the Youth International Party (Yippies), spoke on various topics, combining unilateral discussion with questions from the audience. He expressed his dislike of the press,· yet had agreed to appear at a press conference be~ore his speech. Hoffman appeared nervous there, and acted as though judgment was being passed on him as an \ex-yippie-zippie- dippie, turned fugitive, now back t? be movie mogul.\ When asked about the .charge of his seHing cocaine to an undercover agent, from which he fled in 1973 and for which he now faces 15-years-to-life im- prisonment if convicted, Hoff- man appeared reserved and somber. He referred to it as the \messy little business in New York City,\ and said that cocaine \should be classified with amphetamines and diet pills.\ He added that the trail was at a \delicate stage, but something should be resolved before Christmas.\ The proximity of his surrender and the release of his autobiography, entitled \Soon To Be a Major Motion Picture,\ was also discussed. Hoffman claimed the two events to be \fairly coincidental\ and felt this allegation was due to the \jaded attitude of reporters.\ Continually throughout the press conference, Hoffman spoke of what he sees as his accomplishments and his service to the good of several Spring 1981 Join the Semester at Sea, sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh, for an unparalleled international educational expe- rience. Sail from Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, February 5, by way of South America, Africa, South Asia and the Orient. Early application recommended. Slide presentation will be shown .in Conference rm. A Car- negie Hall at 7:30 Thurs., Nov. 13 and Nov. 20 For Free Color Brochure, call or wri~e: ~emester at Sea, Taj Mahal Building. P.O. Box 2488. Laguna Hills, CA 92653. Telephone (800) 854-0195 (toll-free outside California) (714) 581-6770 (in California). S.S. Universe is fully air- conditioned. 18.000 tons. of Liberian registry. groups while being persecuted by society as a whole. As evidence, he claimed the \F.B.I. played quite dirty,\ by compiling some 24,000 pages of records, showing he has un- dergone 150 wiretaps, as wel:l as being burglarized. Hoffman also spoke with affection of his life as Barry Freed prior to his surrender, living in the Thousand Islands on the St. Lawrence River in upstate New York. Prior to this, he had dodged authorities throughout North America and met Joanna Lawrenson, with whom he lived. As Barry Freed, he co- founded the \Save The River Committee,\ which suc- cessfully prevented the Army Corps of Engineers from destreying small islands to make winter navigation possible. He appeared in the news, testified before a Senate subcommittee and, as a result, received complimentary letters from several elected officials. Hoffman was comfortable and at ease in front of students in Memorial Chapel. His speech was political, and concentrated on the Presidential election of the previous day. His prediction is that the Reagan era will in- clude \very turbulent times, with a dangenms shaky finger on the trigger.\ Hoffman also joked of wat- ching Reagan's version of winning the West on television and then, in a very reserved, wavering voice, said, \But no one bleeds.\ He viewed the election as a decision between the \evil of two lessers,\ despite voting for Carter in 1976 under alias, adding that New Sorority: \Reagan will be the easiest President to organize against,\ and predicting that \Teddy (Kennedy) will emerge as the leader of the Democratic party.\ Hoffman's involvement as Yippie leader in the 1960's is only one indication of his philosophy that \you don't have to take things the way they are\. Despite his often radical tradition, he claimed, \I am a believer in the system.\ Abbie Hoffman was a major force in the couterculture of the 1960's. He is a man of radical beliefs whose attempts of change resulted in beatings, jailings and 1 in 1968, charges of conspiracy. He epitomized the youth of the era, fearing nothing and striving for what he believed in. But, some 10 years later, the youth is gone. No longer was there an American flag draped across his body; in its place, last Wednesday, he wore a blazer. No longer is his youth evident; middle age has crept up. No longer were his radical ideas of direc:t action discussed; instead he talked about petitions and discusyion groups. No longer were leftist pamphlets distributed; instead, letters preaddressed to Hugh L. Carey ta help his trial. No longer are the ex- Yippie leaders staging protests; Jerry Rubin is working on Wall Street and Abbie Hoffman is raising funds for his trial by speaking publicly. Nonetheless, despite plastic surgery and a change in voice, Abbie Hoffman is still Abbie Hoffman, trying to change what he doesn't believe in. Greek.s to Visit By NAOMI BLANK This Monday at 7 p.m. the sorority Delta Delta Delta ( \Tri Delta\) is scheduled to make a presentation to inform Union students about its intention to colonize here. It is the final step toward the formation of a chapter here. Kappa Delta, another sorotity that intended to .attempt colonization at Union, withdrew from the presen- tation. \With Kappa Delta's with- drawing, Tri Delta's national board is reconsidering whether or not they want to colonize here,\ said Assistant Dean of Students Mike Andolina Tuesday night. \They probably won't reach a decision until late in the week.\ He also advised women considering pledging a sorority to take this into con- sideration. The process of selection was a long one. Summing up the procedure, Assistant Dean of Students Mike Andolina stated, \We contacted several sororities to see which were interested in establishing a colony at Union. We narrowed the selection down to those who had strong local alumnae support, strong national sup- port, and those who continued to show their interest in us.\ Regarding the choice of sororities, Alice Crotty, a local alumna of the Schenectady Chapter of Panhellenics, stated, \They wanted a sorority that has alumnae in the area to help establish a chapter.\ A charter takes ap- proximately six: months to a year to write, depending on national rules. The number of sisters will be determined by the level of interest. The need for more choice has been an idea expressed by Union co-eds. The amount of interest is the major factor involved in many of the existing concerns. \The options of housing,\ for example, \are being taken into consideration,\ Andolina said. No immediate answer exists. Both Sigma Delta Tau and Delta Gamma are enthusiastic and supportive. Mary Beth Burnett, president of Sigma Delta Tau, feels \it's great that new sororiti.es are trying to colonize.\ She also feels that \there's a lot more interest now than in the past\ and hopes ''the new sorority is able to colonize.\ Jill Thomson, president of Delta Gamma, is also \looking forward to more sororities\ and feels they ''will strengthen the system.\ At Syracuse University, the Omicron chapter of Tri Delta is housed. Kelly Shipley, Tri Delta rush chairman at Syracuse wtll be one of the speakers at the presentation Nov. 17. She feels that ''the sorority system is generally a plus to a campus beca)lse it brings people together. The Greek system in general is good for campus life.\ Regional chapters, such as the one at Syracuse University, assist in the process. Local alumnae of the Schent:·ctady Chapter of the Panhellenic also took part in helping Union set up for the presentation. The National Panhellenic Con- ference set the rules which the total procedure followed. The Conference sets requirements pertaining to the extension of chapters and assists with suggestions. It states \The college Panhellenic will need to furnish on-going assistance to the new chapter until it is firmly esta bUshed.\ The rules are understood and enforced. Interest is the major factor in the success of the colonization of Delta Delta Delta at Union College. The finalization of becoming a charter will depend on this demonstrated interest.

Page 4 OONOO.RDI.ENSIS, November 13, 1980 An off-campus apartment Freshm~rt Perspective: 0 .. pnuon: Off-Campus Housing ·Ry .J. ALLEN SCARDINO As the Fall Tenn comes to a dose and the emergence of winter term is in sight, so begins the period ·Of hibernation for all at Union. Many find Winter Term to be their most sllccessful term academically due to the Schenectady weather. 'The advent of Spring Term poses 'blossommg opportunities, from a long rest. In addition to senrots graduating, baseball and Frisbee tournaments there are many necessary chores that returning Union students need to perform. Among them in- cludes finding living ac- comodations for the following academic year. would keep a record rating of fandlords and apartments so ·that students would be forewarned of renting :from a ''bad\ landlord. · The Greek System Many students elect to live off campus: rather than gamble for a \good\ room on campus; But there are other reasons for venturing off into apartment dwelling. Some prefer to retain their independence and autonomy by living off campus. Others do it because they like to cook or feel that they have had quite enough of the nerve· racking experience of dorm living. The organization would also gather furniture and other furniShings left by graduat-ing seniors or anycme else who had lived in an apartment. Finally,, it would provide advice to students regarding (ina limited legal capacity) any sort of problems and conflicts with landlords or any other conflicts connected with apartment dwelling .. In the future, thought and consideration filight be given to setting up a non--:profit cor- poration to purchase multi-unit dwellings as additional housing · By JOANNE WHITE With fraternity and sorority pledging around the corner, many freshmen have now decided whether or not they will become a part of this major college institution. An opportunity to form close friendships, an improved social life, better housing, and better food were the most commonly expressed reasons for becomeing a fraternity brother. A typical response was that of one prospective member, who explained, \It sounds like a good situation. People are closer. I don't know a lot of the people on my floor.\ Asked why they had chosen a particular fraternity, all respondents indicated that the quality of the people was the most significant factor. Lots of activities, good parties, and a positive, cooperative attitude among fraternity members were also important con- siderations for all those in- terviewed. SCHENECTADY 453 State St. 377-2802 Despite similar concerns, for many freshmen the selection of a fraternity appears to be highly individualistic, depen- dent upon personal reactions to the people, ifldividual priorities, and common interests. For some, an atmosphere for study as well as social in- teraction is essential. Whe11 asked why he chose a particular fraternity, one .freshman replied, \It's another aspect of college life, and it's a good one. They say that your cumulative average goes up when you join. There are good parties and good things to do, and also there's the atmosphere to study. This is not true of .all frats, but (the one I have chosen) is one of the frats that emphasizes academies.\ To others, social activities are of primary importance. Location, rooms, food, and intramural activities also play a part in the decision-making process. __ Those who preferred not to join a fraternity also offered a variety of reasons. One fresh- ALBANY 21 1 Central Ave 434-0085 man commented, ''You get to know more people by not being in a fraternity.\ Another said, \Frats are too restricted, partly because of eating with the same people and being with them all the time.\ All of those interviewed were ask:ed whether they believed that stereotypes exist, and if so, if they area positive or negative aspect. Some felt that some of the stereotyping is helpful in enabling an individual to choose a fraternity which matches his interests. All felt that some of the stereotyping is false, and that it is unfair to individuals labelled inc()frectly by the CoUege community. Others felt that ster-eotyping, whether true or false, is harmful. \I don't want to be known as a 'brother,' 'but as me,\ one said. ''There are certain opinions of certain frats. I think you should have rnore mixture.\ Another reasoned that there is no such thin.g as a true stereotype, for Continued on page 5 • • Whatever the reasons are, there is a considerable amount of foot work that has to be performed prior to the enjoying apartment -dwelling. And, for the most part, the quest for an apartment and the gathering of all the necessary .· furnishiags can be quite frustrating and time consuming. There is one possible solution to the multiplicity of plaguing problems of potential, apart- ment dwellers, and that is for an organization to be set up for the purpose of assisting students in off campus living .. Presently, there is some assistance given to students from the housing office, but it is minimal. The organization which is being suggested would serve to function as an intergral aid to students seeking to live off campus. It would comprise a list of apartments that either are available or ones that would be available inthe surrounding vicinity of Union. In addition, it BONNIE RAITT Sweet Forgiveness Includes Runaway Home/AboutToMakeMeLeaveHome Gamblin' Man By setting this up with a board of directors comprised of students, faculty and school administrators, and purchasing housing in the surrounding area, this pilot project could serve as a model for other academic institutions to con- sider in alleviating their possible housing problem. In addition, by purchasing real estate instead of building on an already crowded campus. if student enrollment or if in- terest in this concept does decrease, then the real estate could be sold. The original suggestion of an organization to aid students in off campus housing could be referred to as an off-campus association.\ The organization could be either student nm or an additionai administrative of- fice. Should this concept be taken seriously or not, y-et there is a need for something like this at Union. -- --Or~tefulD;ad--, WORKINGMAN'S DEAD Conta1ns Uncle Johns Band Casey .Jones New Speedway Boogie Cumberland Blues -- THESE ALBUMS OR TAPES FOUR LOCATIONS SALE ENDS SUNDAY SARATOGA GLENS FALLS HOURS 44& Broadway 234 Glenn St. Mon.-Fri. 10·9 584-8884 798-6055 Sat. 1 0-6, Sun. 12·5. · - In By· Ther excitir this YE art h Reign Washi1 Bache Stanfc Calif or gradm Univer where histor) Prof. i her w chitec Spain, complE was th year i under1 Stanfo1 celona. scholai ment-; Spani~ promp1 field. Be£01 Rohrej College five ye involve area, s ~ 0 c BOO G IF\ CAR -1 FRI 1. 2. 3. ''W of· ·and Skel

OONCORDIENSIS_. November 13, 1980 Page 5 ~ ' . . • • • cUlture ' '\ ' .. Introducing • • • Judith Rohrer CABARET Finale .. Las,f Show of Fa II '80 Thursday, Nov. 13at9:00& 11:00 By D. M. PONTISAKOS There are quite a few new and exciting professors at Union this year. One .of them teaches art history: Judith Rohrer. Reigning kom Seattle, Washington .she earned her BachelcrF-s Degree from Stanford University in California and then went on to graduate school at Columbia University in New York City, where her specialty was the history of modern architecture. t Prof. Rohrer says that most of 65 her work focused gn · the ar- . chitecture of Barcelona <( Spain, about which she has just \E completed her dissertation. It ~ was the study of art abroad--a ~ year in_ Italy as .part of her >- undergraduate program at .o Stanford and a year in Bar- E celona, Spain, on a Fulbright _g scholarship from the govern- o... ment-along with her studies of Spanish medieval art that prompted her to go into this field. Before coming to Union, Prof. Professor Rohrer gallery where she spent six months as a director to thaat experimental gallery whieh exhibits music and film, as well R0hrer taught at Trinity College in Hartford Conn. for five years. She has also been involved with museums in that area, such as an avant gaarde , as! visual arts, and. the Wad- s worth Museum where she occasionally acts as guest curator, as she will be this month and once again in April BOOKS Gl FTS CARDS ···just a 10 minute walk from UNION COLLEGE -136 Jay Street ·Downtown Sc'henectady--- 34S·271e FRUSTRATED • • • BECAUSE 1. ·can't take pressures of school. .. 2. Bad paper or test scores. 3. Not: getting laid The above were the top 3 answers to our \Why do people drink poll. If you fall into any of the top 3 catagories, readiust your aHitude -and get a new perspe_ctive on life. Come to the Skellar Friday afternoon sunset to 7 p.m. All in all, Prof. Rohrer in- dicates that her major interest · ,js contemporary art. She is involved in contemporary art 1st Act: Steve Mark, Ken Applebaum, Ken Kaufman, Jim Etkin ·-· • criticjsm in New York City (her critiques are published in the national magazi-ne, . Arts). She has just finished a lecture series on modern and contemporary art. 2nd Act: \Mike Zanta and Steve Koelbel MC: Rich Tanenbaum Tickets in Carnegie 8:00 See Ya There!!! .'!2 ,_ tO .s:::. u >- ..0 0 .,_ o. .c a.. As an ardent feminist who likes to \connect my work with my feelings,'' the art histerian finds herself delving Into the :field of contemporary feminist artists--the integration of the feminist movement and art, which produces works which depict tortured women,- or woman as a godess, or take woman to stand for humanity instead of man, for example. This relationship between art and politics where \.the work is essentially political: but still has artistic value\ has always fascinated Rohrer and indeed ties up to her dissertation, which considered the relationship between art and politics. Smythies never sleep alone. It's warmer that way! Tips from Smythe: This Winter Term, Professor Rohrer will be offering a course on Nineteenth Century Architecture and it should be a good one! Cor1serve Energy ! MOTH--- - and STAR Off({! Hot« are back!!! Friday, Nov. 14 at 8:30 p.m. in the Old Chapel Adm. $1 coffees, tea, donuts ... DON'T MISS IT!!! ' sponsored by U.C. Coffeehouse Greek System Continued from page 4: \there are a variety of per- sonalities in every fraternity.\ Everyone interviewed, both male and female, felt that there is a need for more sororities on campus. Like their male counterparts, those interested in joining a sorority seek closer friendship, common bonds, and shared activities. \It seems like a lot of fun. You live with people you get along with, rather than with people you don't associate with that much,\ said one rushee. Another noted, \There's more of a sense of community that's lacking to an extent in a dorm.\ Those who chose not to live in a sorority expressed a variety of viewpoints. One woman was We at Smythe have received many negative comments in regard to our anthem which appeared in last week's paper. Well, it just so happens that showering together is only one of our attempts to conserve energy. We have found that that there can be many advantages to this pr9-ctice, especially in a co-ed household. First of all, we shower in pairs to save water. In doing this, we learn more during one shower than if we spent ten weeks in Biology 66. However, our sleeping arrangement is-what saves the most energy. No member of Smythe ever sleeps alone. In this day and age, Americans are trying to cut down on energy dissatisfied with rush rules: ''The rules were ridiculous. You couldn't talk to anyone in the sorority. It was really formal. You can't pick your own friends.\ However, not everyone found the new formal rush to be un- comfortable. One freshman said. \Both houses were really friendly. The stereotypes didn't seem to be true.!! Yet, for many, stereotyping was a major reason for not joining one of the established sororities: \There are only two sororities on campus, and their reputations are so far apart that you're stereotyped from one extreme to another. We're interested in a happy mediwn between SDT and DG.'' WE INVITE YOU TO PREVIEW THE EXCLUSIVE COL- LECTION OF CRABTREE AN-D EVELYN SOAPS. · TOILETRIES, AND COMESTmLES FROM SWITZER- LAND, AND FRANCE, ENGLAND AND GERMANY NOW AVAILABLE AT CENTER CITY PLAZA. Crabtree 6 Evelyn LON D 0 N 433 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. (518) 393-0317 10:00 am-5:30 pm Mon.-Sat., Thurs. Eve. to 9 pm Closed SUndays Akron • Boston • Charleston, S.C. • Concord, CA. e Coral Gables Costa Mesa • Grosse Point • Houston • Lake Geneva • Miami • New York North Wales • Palo A Ito • Provincetown • Rochester • Toronto 7Yso11's Corner, MD. • Washington, D.C. • Westwood consumption. At Smythe House we are following suit; the heat is never on. We all sleep in our biggest bedroom on the second floor and keep each other as warm as possible. Now, many of you may .think that such living conditions would lead to sexual haphazardness. At Smythe, this is not the case--we are very careful. Some of us believe that missing an occasional class aids in conserving energy. So if we're not in class every once in a while, remember (professors especially) that we're doing it for a good reason. · We believe a great deal in conservation. In fact, we will be giving tips on how to conserve energy by showering and sleeping together. This event will take place next Saturday night, Nov. 22. So be ready to participate. Governance Continued from page 1 admissions, athletics, and campus operations. The Liaison Committee for Admissions is responsible for making recommendations to the President on admissions policy, and advising the Dean of Admissions on \all matters of concern to students and faculty about admissions,\ says GD. The Liaison Committee for Athletics is responsible for advising the \Director of Athletics on all matters of .concern to the athletic program,\ according to GD. Although the Committee is oni:· an advisory one, the director i ; expected to \consider carefully its advice,\ and consult with it regularly. The Liaison Committee for· Campus Operations \shad advise the Director of Campus Operations on all matters of the physical state of the campus and on plans for. im· provements,\ according to GD . Nfembers of all Liaison Committees include students, faculty, and the director of the subject being advised. THEM.BA AT UNION COLLEGE Management con· centrations In pri· vate sector admln· lstratlon and In health systems ad· mh'llstratlon, plan· . · nlng and policy For more lnlormat1o·n ~nd application for admisslon. call or write the Institute of Admlnlstretion and Management UNION ~~~~gr~:·f1'c.~;3~zJos or 370·6239

Page 6 f, ( ·' OONCORDIENSI8, Novembl!r 13, 1980 . roun am US--· Levy to Speak on Psychology Psi Gbi, the psychology honor sodety, will present Dr. Richard Levy to speak on the nature of captivity tonight at 7:30 in SS016. Dr. Levy is .currently the head of the Psychiatric Dep~rtment at Ellis Hospital. The lec(ure will present a series of dt&wings done by repatriated Air Force priseners of War shortly after their release from captivity in Vietnam, depicting the nature of their personal experiences. The impact of captivity will be discussed. All interested students and faculty aare invited to attend. Bio Bake Sale A Success TiUllated tastebuds ap· plauded the efforts of Union College's Biology Club, which treated the campus to baked delights last Thursday in Carnegie Hall. Brownies, cakes and, yes, even Grandma-baked apple.pies, stimulated olfactory senses, and it was only the very strong-willed or the penniless, that passed - by the colorful display of baked goods. All are to be congratulated, for when the buffalos and two-bits were counted, the Biology Club showed a profit of more than $50. Steinmetz Seminar Offered All students interested in the Steinmetz Curriculum seminar, \The Logic of Inquiry,\ are invited to apply by Monday, Nov. 17. The seminar will be limited to approximately 15 -.;tudents, and it will be team taught by Profs. Jan Ludwig , philosophy) David Peak !,physics) and Terry Weiner I sociology). In addition te the regular seminar discussions, there will be weekly luncheons with the faculty members who will discuss their own research and its significance. Beginning In January, lhe Steinmetz Curriculum wiU be temporarily housed in the Lower Lounge of Hale House, where seminars will be held and a lounge area will be available for students to meet informally, read, meet vititing dignitaries who come to campus. · The \Logic .of Inquiry\ is an inter-disciplinary seminar dedicated to exploring the issues of h@W and why knowledge is ,gotten and un- derstanding is achieved is the sciences, social sciences,. and the humanities. .Seminar discussions are based upon student papers and common readings, and participating students are encouraged to examine closely the academic inquiry of their own particular major and to compare that against the methods of inquiry AIRLINE JOBS-FRE:E INFO' Nationwide Write Airline Placement Bureau 4208 198th SW No. 101 lynnwood, WA 98036 Enclose a self-addressed stamped large envelope 464 State St. we deliver STEAM Schenectady 374-1888 FEED PUMP . MATH, PHYSICS, CHEMISTRY & -ENGINEERING MAJORS Could _you use $10,000 your Senior Year? CONSIDER NAVY NUCLEAR ENGINEERING! Selected college students (and Masters program students) can receive over $800 per month during their senior year in college (or last 12 months of their Masters program) without altering their p.resent curriculum. The U.S. Navy, this nation's largest employer in the nuclear propulsion field, offers the most comprehensive applied graduate level education available in the field. This engineering school is approximately one year lond, including training on an operating nuclear reactor, and was created under the auspices of the Atomic Energy Commission. The Navy is presently paying graduates of this program $30,000 per year after. three years on-the-job experience. Nuclear engineering is one of the rapidly expanding· fields in con- temporary science; the ·credentials of those completing this Navy program are highly respected throughout the industry. Interviews will be conducted on Nov. 18. Sig.up for an~ interview at the Placement Office or call: · Bob Miller at 472-4426 Room 331, O'Brien Fede'ral Bldg. Albany, NY'·l2207 used in other disciplines and departments at the College • Koren SHkwood Karen Silkwood, a plutoniuin worker at the Kerr-McGee plant, was suspiciously kiHed in a car accident in 1974. Many \Silkwood supporters\ claim that her death was far from ari accident. During her em- ployment, Karen became contaminated by unUsually large amounts of plutoniwn. Kerr-McGee claimed that the plutonium must have have been stolen, but this obviously was not the case. The amount of contamination in her body was deemed to be cancerous. · The Kerr-McGee plr: .t was a,ccused of being ignorant towar~I the safety precautions at the plant; and that Ms. Silk- wood, as a worker had been exposed te unsafe amounts. The trial ended after her death in 1979 and Kerr-McGee was sued for 110.5 million. In tribute to the nuclear power martyr, November 10 through 14 have been designated to Karen Silk- wood. In honor of her, .con- cerned students here are sponsoring a booth in Carnegie on Friday. MARGARET SHUE CAMPUS EVENTS Fri., Nov. 14 Film \Superman\ Coffeehouse featuring \Moth Star'' Hockey: Union vs. Norwich Play The Crucible Sat., Nov. 15 Play The Crucible Jazz Ensembl.e Concert Film \Superman\ Sun., Nov. 16 Play The Crucible Film \Superman\ Tues., Nov. 18 Minerva Film Series: \A Free Woman\ Hockey: Union vs. Plattsburgh Play The Crucible Wed., Nov. 19 Museum.College Concert Series: Julian Bream: Guitar Film \Mash\ ' Thurs., ·Nov. 20 Play Th<! Crucible 8, 10 pm-SS016 8: 30 pm-Oid Chapel 8 pm.Achilles Rink 8 pm-Nott Memorial 8 pm-Nott Memorial 8:30pm-Memoria I Chapel 8, 10pm-SSOl6 8 pm. Noft Memoria I 8, 10 pm-SS016 7:30-9: 30·SS016 8 pm-Achilles Hink Spm.Nott Memorial 8pm-Memorial Chapel a, 10 pm-SS016 8 pm·Nott Memorial <:3\ f;:: l t!'>' l' ):.~¥/i &.1 1 -tt<;.J-· _ Center City Plaza 433 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. U305 (SIB) 393·0317 Mon. - Sat. 10:00 A.M. - 5:30 P.M. Thurs. Eve. to.9:00 P.M. · Closed Sundays :'},i.:/;: l; .it ~y if' alsoln: Robinson Square 301 Hamilton Street Albany, N.Y .. U210 (518) 434·1709 TWO· YEAR, FULL-TUITION MBA SCHOLARSHIPS Owen Graduate School of ·Management of Vanderbilt Uni- versity is pleased to announce Its 1981·82 MBA Scholarship Program. Outstanding men and women seeking. ultimate management careers are encouraged to apply. The MBA Scholarship Program Is designed to recognize ex- ceptional academic achievement and leadership ability. Scholarships are awarded solely on the basis of merit. Need is not a prerequisite. · Students in any undergraduate major are eligible to apply. Completed applications are dve by March 15, 1981. All ap- plicants will be notified of the Selection Committee's final decision by April 1, 1981. • NAME • ADDRESS --~-------,__ __ ,___ II CITY, STATE, ZIP • • TELEPHONE ( II UNDERGRADUATE COLLEGE ~i'i'ii'il••••••--' - - BULL Off• wantel tenns. ment, ,plianc c:ampu month 3226. Do y ~976? l YEAR a Iittll Skellar 13). Si: also WI Ca Nov. Pastor ception Nov. assista Schene ·Msgr. 1 Chapla United

- - was rant ions mk- >een The lin :ued the tyr, ave lilk- !On- are !gie HUE 5 ial I f ' OONCORDIENSIS 1 November 13 1 1980 BULLETIN BOARD Off-Campus Roommate Dec. 7-Rev. Charles Phillips, Director of Vocations and Supervisor of Deacons for the Office of Permanent Diaconate, wanted for· winter and spring The State university College tetms. Three bedroom apart- \ · at Geneseo has a desperate rnent, furnished, with ap- need to fill a Computer Science pliances, two blocks from faculty position to begin in .campus. Approximately $90 per . January 1981. )Vhile our month with utilities. Call 372- preference would tie to locate 322fi. someone with- an advanced . degree in Computer S.cience and Do you remember the fall of . significant computer t976?A'TTENTIONALLFIVE ... background, these,, YEAR PEOPLE: There Will be . qualifications are in very short a little get together in the · supply. Thus, we will seriously S}i:ellar tonight (Thursday, Nov. consider someone whose i3). Six and seven-year people primary training is not in also welcome. . computers, but has a modest Campus Ministry Mass Nov. 16...-Re. Joseph Cotugno, Pastor of Immaculate Con- • ception Parish, Schenectady. ·. Nov. _23-Rev. John Kostek, . assistant' pastor; St. Luke's, Schenectady, and co-celebrant ·Msgr. Francis X. Ryan, former · Chaplain at Union, RPI, and the United States Air Force. amount of programming ex- perience, and significant potential for growth. Position requires teaching in some area of FQRTRAN, COBOL, SPSS, or advanced courses. Nine- month teaching responsibilities with possibilities for summer teaching.. Excellent salary, based on qualifications. Apply with resume or phone call to: Dr. Lee T. Bryant, Computer Science, State University College, Geneseo, NY 14454 (716) 245-5581. An Equal Oppurtuaity-Affinnative Action Empl«?rer, The yearbooks are in-- -Lorraine Marra SummerOpportuRities: .Peter Marbach from Winant Volunteers, New York City, St. Bartholomeu Club, will beat the Placement Office on November 18 to talk to students in Group Sessions from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. about their program on \Summer in England.'' If there are stu~nts who are interested in this program, please stop by Placement and sign-up. The Union College Dance ' · Club is sponsoring a JAZZ WORKSHOP on Sat., Nov. 22, open to anyone interested. It will be a beginning level class from 34:30 p.m. Because of the space availabl~ we will have to limit the size of the class. If you would like to take the workshop call 370-6710, NOW, to secure your spot. The workshop is free of charge to all Union students. Interested in an insurance internship possibly leading to full-time employment after college? See Pat Matteo in the Office of Career Resources for information. · Alternative Job Search · Strategies Workshop. Par- ticipants will learn how to establish contacts and use the hidden job market to their advantage. Designed primarily for the liberal arts student. Most effective for the student who has either a'ttended the skills identification workshop or who has a good understanding of his-her skills and strengths. Sign up Wed., Nov.19, 6:30-7:30 p.m. On Thursday, Nov. 13 at 4:30 in SS112 there will be a meeting for the purpose of electing a student representative and alternate from among junior BE ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AT 22. Think of a shlp as a corpora- tion, and it's not farletched at all. A destroyer m(!ly have fifteen officers, other ships even fewer. Even the most junior officer gets to share in runnil1g the show. You become part of the management team when you get your commission as an ensign after just 16 weeks of leadership training at Officer Candidate School. Choose to be a Navy officer and you are responsible for people and equipment almost immediately. Many officers go on for further advanced schooling. The Navy has literally dozens of fields for its officers-· everything from nuclear pro- r---::---- ..... --------, pulsion to systems analysis, I NAVY OPPORTUNITY c 144 I oceanography to inventory I INFORMATION CENTER I I P~o. Box 2000 1 management. In graduate Pelham Manor, New York 10803 school, this training would I 0 Yes, I'm interestecJ in becoming cost you thousands, but in I a Navy Officer. Please send me I more information. (~G) the Navy, we pay you. 1 t . AskbyoturfNf_avy reprertsen!a- I . Name FIRST (PLEASE PRINT) LAST 1ve a ou o Icer oppo urn- 1 Address~· --------- ties, or mail this coupon for 1 more information. Or call I City state--ZiP-- toll-free 800-841.,800() (in GA I Age-tCollege/University· ___ _ call toll-free 800-342-5855). 1 1 :j:GraduationDate __ OGradePoiht-- There's no obligationl._and you'llleam about an excellent I .6Major/Minor way to start a career in II Phone Number·-------- ·- (AREA CODE) CNll/80 management. As a college I The More We Know, The More We Can Help. g niduate you can get manage- ·I The Privacy Act under Title 10, Section 503, 505, and 510 states that you do not have to ment experience in any indus- I ahswer the personal questions we have asked. , . , · · However, the more we know, the more try. But you ll get It sooner- I fi,CCUrately we can de~ermine your qualifica- d . f 't . th N L~1onsforourNavyOff1cerProgram. ...J an more o 1 -In e avy. ------------ NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST. Page 7 political science majors. All junior majors are eligible to be nominated. Campus Fast: Help Stop Hunger! Join the Campus Thanksgiving Fast on Monday, Nov. 24. Give away your lunch or dinner at Hale or West. Proceeds go to the Hamilton Hill Food Distribution Center. Help someone else enjoy Thanksgiving . MRP Associates, Inc. will be recruiting on. campus on Nov. 20, in the Civil. Engineering Building, Room 104. There will be a sign-up sheet in Professor Harlow's Office and one in the Placement Office. So any in\ terested students may sign-up at any time. MRP is interested in Masters · and Bachelors in Civil and Mechanical Engineering. Also other Engineering students with solid basis in general · engineering .principles. For position in Consulting Engineering and Engineering Services . for the energy in- dustry. P1ease contact the Placement Office for further information and company literature. Jordan Mmsb is presently seekind candidates for their January 1981 Executive Training Program. Interested students and graduates should send 'their resrunes to Mr. James F. French, Recruiting Manager, Jordan Marsh Company, 38 Chauncy Street, Boston Mass. 02205. Students who are interested in summer employment should stop by the Placement Office for further information. The final schedule of library hours effective through Nov. 25, 1980, is: Mon-Fri.-8:30 a.m.-11 p.m. Sat.-9 a.m.-5 p.m. . Sunday-12 noon-11 p.m. Thanksgiving Recess-Wed., Nov. 26-8:30-5 p.m. Library closed Thurs., Nov. 27 thru Sunday, Nov. 30. Regular Schedule resumes Monday. Dec. 1, 1980 at 8:30 a.m. Exam Schedule Mon., Dec. 1-Fri., Dec. 5-8:30 a.m.-11 p.m. Sat., Dec. 6-9 a:m.-11 p.m. Sun., Dec. 7-9 a.m.-11 p.m. Mon., Dec. 8-8:30 a.m.-11 p.m. _Tues., Dec. 9--.8:30 a.rn.-5 p.m. ~ Whenever the College is not in session, the Restricted Study Area (All-Night Stu~y) is open the same hours as the Library. The one exception is the Thanksgiving Holiday when the night study will be open the Sunday after Thanksgiving at 12 noon. All college owned residence - halls will close on Wednesday, Dec. 10, 1980, at 12:00 noon for recess. No one may stay in the buildings past this date. · Students taking the Graduate Record Exam (GRE) must come to the Residence Life Office to make alternative LOST: One blue backpack from the Placement and Career Resources Office, Wednesday night, Oct. 29. Please return to Pat Matteo at the Placement Office. WANTED Tutor Wanted: Legally blind pre-med student needs tutors for chemistry and physics. Please call placement · office 6176 or 346-7128.

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS November 13, 1980 6port6 . . . ,.. ' . - ' . . . . .:. '. . - -' ' ' . . \ , ,.. \· Football: Hamilton Outlasts Ullion By ED LYNCH and DOUG SILVERSTEIN It has been a long, ciissapointing and terribly frustrating season for the Union C0Ilege football team. Saturday afternoon's encounter with Hamilton proved to be no dif- ferent, as the Dutchmen dPopped their fifth game in a row. Despite outplaying Hamilton, the Dutchmen came 1:1p short, as timidity and second half in- consistency continued to plague the dub's perfonnance. It was only Hamilton's second win in their past 22 baH games and marked an end to Union's four year dominance of the Con- tinentals. Hamilton broke op top early in the second quarter, when defensive back Dave Bonzerato stepped in front of a Dana Johnston aerial and returned it 49 yards for a touchdown. Hamilton quarterback Phil Grunaugh then threw a 14-yard TD pass to Alan Sch!l1iedicker, m1d Hamilton found tfuemselves leading, 14-0. Union scored when Johnston tossed a 1'5-yard pass to Billy Huttner, who had a fine day, picking up 83' yards on the ground. Following the second half kickoff, the Dutchmen marched 82 yards in 10 ,plays for its second score .of the day. J0hnston connected with Henry Wright for 14 yards, Walt Fredericks for 23, and freshman Roger Ferriera broke off tackle for 34 yards, setting up Johnston touchdown.pass to Wright. '&he Dutchmen, who had been down by 11 points, were now up by four. Union qu-ickly regained possession of the balL Ogden Dodge carried 15 yards to the Hamilton 34. Johnston then made use of Henry Wright with consecutive completions of 19 and 10 yards for a first and goal at the Hamilton three. A touchdown at this point would have broken Hamilton's Athlete of the Week The recipient of this edition's Athlete of the Week is senior split-end Henry Wright. Wright's performance has been excellent throughout this season, and his career statistics are among the best in Union's football history. This past week, however, must rate as a highlight in Henry's football career. If there was a bright spot in last week's loss to Hamilton, it was Henry. Wright compiled 11 receptions for 145 yards, in- cluding one touchdown. His outstanding play earned him the game's MVP, awarded traditionally by Hamilton's on the season with five resulting in touchdowns. The 530 yards he has gained thus far brings his total career yardage up to 1487, only 244 yards behind late-1960's standout, Rich Swan tallied 1731 career yards, the most in Dutchmen history. One school record that the sure handed split-end has a chance of attaining in this season's concluding contest is \most touchdown passes caught in a season.\ Rich Swan holds this record also, with eight in 1967. Wright would need three TD r~tions this Saturday in order to tie the record. Henry, who also participates Split-end Henry Wright football staff to the exceptional in the long jump, high jump and player in the Union-Hamilton triple jump for the indoor track rivalry. team, is a sociology major and a Henry has totaled 32 catches brother at Chi Psi. I.. OJ 1: I.. OJ --' 1: OJ > (I) -<- (/) >- -Ll 0 -+• 0 _J: a_ The Union varsity hockey team will open its regular season· here Friday against Norwich, at 8p.m. In pre-season action the past two weekends, the team lost to Colgate, 8-3, and American International College, 4•3. back. The momentum had shifted, as Union escaped from early impotence and began to ·play well. However, on the very next play Johnston ami Ferriera messed up a routine handoff and the ball squirted loose into the hands of a Hamilton linebacker. The Continentals used -11 plays and almost eight minutes in setting up John Pastore's, 23 yard field goal. Hamilton's final two points came as Union ~ punter Tom Glynn was tacked > in the end zone after gathering ~· in a bounding footbaH that had ffi just sailed over his head. ~ Union again came close in the £ final two minutes. Unable to 0 gain a first down after mar- 13 ching to the Hamilton 25, the ~ Dutchmen gave the ball back to Hamilton, who proceeded to fumble it back to Carm Andino R1.1nning back Bi.ll Huttner slithers through hole and the Dutchmen. This opportunity .sadly fizzled out at the HamHton 18, as the final seconds ticked away. On Saturday the Dutchmen wiH dose out the fall on the road against Rochester. Seniors playing in their final game are Dave Wibur, Mark Polomba, Carm Andino, Dan Leff, Henry Wright and Bill Egan. PREVIEW The Yellowjackets Q!_ Rochester feature a run- oriented offense around fullback Eric Thames, who, despite a weak 3. 7 average per carry, has gained more than 500 yards this year. He is supported by Buddy Iannone and Tony Camarata, who compliment each other very welL The speed of these two in addition to the strength of Thames is enhanced by the implementation of super turf in ·he Rochester football stadium. This gives the Yellowjackets an advantage over opposing defenses that don't defend the run that well. QB George Rox has been no prize, his statistics boasting a meager 26.3 percent completion average for nine: interceptions and one touchdown. He doesn't pass often, and when he does, his statistics conve-y an inability to develop a multif·aceted passing game. The leading receiver is tight end Dave Orrico, who has caught bit co-passes for 113 yards and one touchdown. The longest pass completion has been for 23 yards, so this is not a passing game to.be feared. The offensive line i& good and ex- perienced, headed by tacldes Darell and Bryon Frontz. The Yellowjacket defense is led by defensive end Tony Hanbey, who plays the run and pass extremely well. He may deter Union sweeps, forcing the Dutchmen to use the fullbacks a bit more. Huttner will no doubt be helped by the surface, but the , steady play of Rochester nose guard Jim Connor clogs up the middle for the Union rushes. Johnston will probably be forced ito the air against a pass defense that allows about 45 percent of the offenses passes to be completed for an average of about 16 yards per completion. This is tempting for the Johnston-Wright combination, but the passes must be: deep, since linebackers Tim Murray and Willie Sutherland roam quite fpeq~ently and pick off numerous passes. · As the season winds down, it i~ apparent the Dutchmen have not lived up to potential. It is not suitabJeto look back and say, or even ponder the fact that with about 40 more points Union could easily be 4-3 or 5-2. It is important to use the losses to evaluate team strengths and wealmesses, and end the season on a positive note. Spikers Go to States The Union College women's mlleyball team received a 3eventh-place seeding in the 1pcoming NYSAIAW Voll'eyball fournament, to be held this :<'riday and Saturday, Nov. 14 :md 15, at Stony Brook. Coach Lynne ijarta's Dut~ :!hwomen will open pool play on fi'riday at noon against second- seed Fredonia. At 3:45 p.m. Union wiH meet lOth ranked Kings, before meeting Capital District rival Siena, whis is the 15th-seed, at 7 p.m. The 16-team tournament is broken into four . pools for opening day, with each pool consisting -of -four teams. The first two places of each pool will go into the championship round on Saturday, with the third and fourth place teams of each pool competing Saturday in the consolation round. Once a team reaches the championship round, the tournament becomes single-elimination. Union, which was seeded 13th last season, went undefeated in pool play before losing to 16th-_ ranked Buffalo State in the· opening match of the cham- pionship round. The Dut- chwomen finished last year's event in· fifth place. \I think we have a good chance of going into the championship round,\ said Barta of her 18-9 team. ''We still won't have Brenda Hugickj but Sheila O'Donnell has done well since taking over the setter . position.\ Union lost Hugick as setter, the quarterback of a volleyball team, six matches ag_o with an ankle injury. Since her loss, the Dutchwomen posted a 2-4 record, but are 1-1 with O'Donnell as setter. Fourth-ranked Albany State will also be in this year's event, marking the first time that three capital district teams have competed at the same time. Harriers Falter The Union cross-country team finished a disappointing 12th at the New York State Championship-at Fredonia State last Saturday, twenty-five teams competed. A major reason for the relatively poor performance was an extremely muddy course that kept times slow and hindered individual efforts. Adam Licht and Ed Arnheiter both earned all-state honors at the race. Licht finished in 20th place, with Arnheiter a place back. However, both runners agreed they would have finished higher if the course was in better shape: \I just couldn't believe it/' Licht said. \After 300 yards, I was ~overed with mud and slipping down.\ One casualty of the poor conditions was Uiiion runner Dennis Contois. Contois was in 50th place with less than one mile to go, when he fell and was unable to finish the race. However, it appears likely Contois will be back in action this week. \I'm ready for this Saturday,\ the bespectacled sophom~re said. \This week I'm putting the petal to the metaL\ Rounding out the team scoring were Dave Dellehunt, 85th; Jack Connor, 88th; Joe Londa, 105th; and Duncan Mackenzie, 116th. 150 runners competed. The cross-country team concludes its season this Saturday at tbe NCAA Qualifier Meet at Albany State. The meet concludes the college careers of seniors Joe Londa and Jack Connor. Londa said, \Both of us would like to go out with a bang.\ BLOCK - U MEETING in Alumni Gym Thursday at 7:00 llllllil - ap dr Rll up of thj m< Wll fr< SP' air dUI j pol Ke sm Co: im ve1 mi OC( Ke arE get ha, \sl I \w tell str' F per bet altl wir ple· int< F COIJ peo pro par tha Ga1 H01 T mo mo a de in1 diti bar 0 Co u dov rec1 fedj aw: Ch1 Nat Hw u8e aw: inst Col 1 Col Mo por effl to pro mil whi por an<

