e 1e :n ~t m u ~r to a lt. js ~k ~n ~y m as ay er fs, lt- he let he :re ne liS ne an he ras ter im ,nd 1n, me the ~n­ md net .rst yet :41 >al, the 15 I ·~ r: ·~ 0~'. ·- s:. ·.·. :r·o · - ' II April ·10, 1980 Volume 109, No. 18 • Ma,intenance Union Defeated by ED ALBRO This past ·Friday, April 4th, a vote was held which would determine whether or not college workers would l)e represented by a labor union. The final result was a tally of 68 votes against the union,·· 41 in .favor of the union, and 19 votes challenged, 17by the union, 2 by the college. Thus the proposed union, Local 200 of the Service Employees International Union, nationally .affiliated with the AFL•CIO, was un- contesta'Qly defeated. The union would have represented all maintenance workers, housekeeping~janitorial staff, food service employees, mechanics and mechanic ap- prentices, laborers, truck- drivers, groundskeeper.s, grounds equipment operators, groundsmen, gardeners, warehousemen, warehouse expediter, vehicle repalr and machine shop employees. unionization explained the altern~::~te view. \We -need a be~ter voice ·in. the college,\ he smd. The major problems he said existed in the maintenance dep;:1rtment and consisted of problems with foremen, working conditions, and bad supervision. He also com- plained o.f the retirement program, saying that while it was fine for young workers, those who c~rne to the eoll eg~ at age 50 or beyond received very little at retirement and were in fact treated inequitably. The worker was worried for the success of the union vote because \t})e college ha::; made a lot of strong 'lectures ag;:t;inst the uniin~' which \tried to make the union. sound bad.\ He in fact - accu~ed the college of at- tempting to ''mislead people'' about the union. After the vote was ·finally tallied, Mr. I:lauser reacted with gratification -io the vote. \Certainly w:e were pleased that the people elected not to include a third party between management and themselves,'' he said. ''Problems were identified auring the campaign, and management will do what it can to alleviate these problems.\ Hauser also reported that most complaints .originated from wor}i(:)rs in the maintenance department- and hoped the su,perv·isory changes initiated this January (Con. cordiensis, February 7, 1980) in the department would solve these problems. The complaints which prompted union organization arose mostly before these changes took ef- fect, he said. Hauser took strong exception to the complaints of the union supporter. ''The benefit program we have here is better than most,\ he said >and ~ reported that the levelof college a. contribution will .soon be in-· creased, while the· minimum level of worker contribution will be lowered. In answer to the second charge, Hauser com- mented, \I don't think that it occurred that anything we gave them was incorrect or misled them. In conclusion, Hauser said, \I would hope that our communication would im- prove'1 and, pointing out that President Morris had asked the employees. to give his ad- ministration a chance to solve the problems, that \the vote was a vote of confidence in John Morris and his administration.\ Professor Ketchum, Chairman of the Search Committee for Vice President of Academic Affairs. · VP ·Search Begins According to President Morris a time table has bee~ established, which calls for a decision by the end of the term and inauguration by September 1. Commenting before the vote was held, Vice President for Finance and Administration John R. Hauser said that while the college certainly respected the right of the workers to organize, \we do not believe that having a third party in- volved is to the advantage of the college or the people.\ Inter- views held Friday morning at the polling place indicated the positions of those voting for and against unionization. One Achilles Rink worker who had voted against the union said, \I can't see it in this size college.\ £'Beneffts are as good as ean be asked for\ and \as long as the work is· done, it's a friendly atmosphere irr which to work.\ He also said that as far as athletic workers are concerned, the major complaints of union supporters just aren't valid. Girling Questio:ns President Morris has an- nounced that a Search Com- mittee has been created to select the Vice President of Academic Affairs. This position was established earlier this year to replace the present positions of Provost and Dean of Faculty. Chairing the <!om- mittee will be Professor Ket- chum of the Mechanical Engineering Department. Also serving on the committee are: William Fairchild, Ilene \ Kaplan, Helen Ouelette, \The Vice President on Academic Affairs,.:.' according to President Morris, \should be a seasoned administrator.'' Some specific qualifications that the committee is looking for ate: sensitivity to arising academic problems, sensitivity to interrelationships between diverse faculty members, and a capability of exhibiting clear academic leadership (especially in curriculum development). . The worker was fearful of adopUon ·of the union for two basic reasons: that it would make unreasonable demands on the college and, . despite reassurances of an open union, that it would soon be tran- sformed into a closed shop, one in which all workers would be required to join, Another op- ponent of the union said he felt the union would serve no pur- pose and would be a waste of his dues. He also strongly praised the college's worker benefits .... A maintenance worker who was a strong supporter of by TOMNITlDO·· During the past few months rumors have been circulating , about campus ajl to whether or not the Girling Center has been sold. Attempts were made this week, to answer -the que.stion: Has the Center been sold or are there any plans to sell tne Center in_the near future? On April 4, Provost Huntley was asked ,about the alleged sale of the 'Girling Center. He stated tnat the Center has not been ..sold- but is on the market. He also added that there are no prospective buyers at this tin)e. The following afternoon Dean Kellett was asked about the status of the Girling Center. According to him, the Center \is not on the market\ at this time, although the college is explot·ing tl:le possibility of selling the facility. Although there are no definite offers as yet, two social organizations in Schenectady .seem to be in- terested in obtaining the Center t../J 'rom and Harry Chapin, who will be performing at Proctor's Theatre on this Sunday to benefit World Hunger. The concert , is being sl)onsored' by Phi Sigma Kappa and tickets are still ava.Jiable. for their own use. President Morris said that the Center is not on the market but a decision is forthcoming as to the possibility of putting it up for sale in the future. He also said that the question has not yet been brought up at any Trustee meeting. At present the Center is used for the Frestunan Orientation picnic, the Alumnl picnic. the Continued on page 3 - ~ · Charles Tidmarch, Peter Tobiessen, Anton Warde, George Williams and John Hauser ( administrative representative). Also Dwight Wolf (acting as Secretary) and two students, Dave O'Connor and. Marcia Hepford. Advertisements have been placed in the New York Times and The Chronicle for Higher Education announcing the position, and presently, responses are being received. \ President Morris also stated that the committee, chaired by Professor .Hugh Alan Wilson, is actively interviewing can- didates for the position of Chairman of the Arts Depart- ment., and a decision is expected to come before the end of this term . Pass/Fail Reviewed by ELLEN VAN DYKE In the Fall of 1970 Union first instituted a policy of pass-fail grading. The objective of the legislation passed by what is now the EPC was to \encourage 'curricular venturesomeness' among students through ex- ploration of course offerings 'in fields distant from their major.' '' 1'he legislation allowed students to take up to two pass- fail courses per year. It was recommended that these courses be free electives,· that is, courses not in the student's major 1 but this was not an absolute stipulation. Professors were ·not notified of which students were taking the course pass-fail as the grades\were not translated to a P ·or an F until they reached the Registrar's Office. The _original pass-fail legislation was revised in February 1978 to be effective in September 1978. This is the legislation that is in effect now. StUdents are still allowed to take two pass-fail courses per year, but they cannot be courses in the department of the student's major and cannot be used to fulfill Liberal Learning requirements. Also, the professors now know which students are taking their courses on a pass-fail basis as \ they must sign the request forms. These changes were made because during the academic year 1976-77, it was found that half of the pass-fail courses were being taken within the same center as the students' majors and one fourth were being taken within the same division of the students' majors. This was seen as violating the original objective of the pass- fail policy. In regards to taking pass.:fail courses now, the current ,catalog says that a student may take a pass-fail course \in order to explore areas of the curriculum substantially distant from previous or current course experience.\ This statement is being in- terpreted to mean that if a student has had one course in a department he may not take another course in that depart- ment on a pass-fail basis. So when a student goes to the Registrar's Office and requests a pass-fait form, he is asked if he · bas read the policy in the catalog. If he says that he has and still wants to take the course pass-fail, he is specifically asked if he has ever taken another 'course in that department. If he has, the request is denied, if not, he is allowed to take the course pass- fail. - Students wha have had pass- fail requests denied but feel Jhey still have a case are sent to speak to Dean Nelson. Dean Nelson,, however, strictly adheres to the interpretation of the policy that the Registrar uses. Any reasons such as \my other two courses are too time consuming\ or \I want to take the course byt don't want to hurt my cwn,\ are not acceptable reasons for laking a class pass- fail. Dean Nelson does not particularly like the pass-fail policy and has submitted a proposal to change it. One · suggestion he has made is to eliminate the policy completely as .the Liberal Learning reqUlrernents already provide the opportunity for students to explore areas distant from their majors and only a small per- centage of students actually take pass-fail courses. Last year, only 1.6 percent of all c~urses were taken pass-fail. Hts other suggestion is to model the policy after the one followed at Hamilton College where • students are given four totally untestriclru:l pass-fail courses during the four years at the college. He would add the restrictions, however, that Union students could not take pass-fail courses in their major C~ntinued on page ;5

Page 2. OONOORDIENSIS, April 10, 1980 Editorial Traffic Safety Walking back to a room on Lenox Road late at night, one is often faced with a frtghtening situation. There is a serious problem of controlHng the traffic on campus, particularly at night. This is a situation that should not exist as U poses a genuine threat to the safety of Union Students, and the Union community as a whole. It is accepted that banning all cars from the campus would prove to be a great inconvenience to a large number of people. Short of banning all forms of traffic on campus,:stringentsteps to assure the safety of student pedestrians must be undertaken. At present, there is no place for a student, or anyone, to walk on the north road next to Jackson's Gardens. The lighting at night is not good and as a result, pedestrians cannot feelsafe if they are walking on the grass next to the road. It should not be necessary to don ''International Orange\ just to walk back to one's dorm at night. There appears to be only one traffic sign visible on that route, that being the ''stop'' sign at the end of the road. If there are any others, the fact that they are so difficult to find does not lessen the severity of the situation. Along with traffic signs, signs posting the school's speed limit·· should be erected. The speed limit on campus is 15 m.p.h., .and even . without a radar gun, it is easy to tell that cars tearing down the \psych straightaway\ and whipping through the \Carnegie S'' are exceeding the speed limit. Such drivers are occasionally present on campus; one evening a drunk driver failed to make '\'the sharp turn in front of North dorm and went straight into the staircase railing at West Hall. If someone had been on the staircase, the results would have been disastrous. The blame cannot be placed fully on Campus Security; chase scenes reminiscent of \Starsky & Hutch\ reruns afford no solution to the probl~in ... The solution must begin with the drivers them- selves. The 15 m.p.h. speed limit is a reasonable one and should be respected by all drivers, regardless o.[ the hour of day or night. While it may prove challenging to attempt the \Achilles Rink to Diamantes' • run in record time, it is hardly worth the risk of not seeing a pedestrian fast enough. An appeaL to the administrators resporsible for better lighting and pedestrian walkways, where needed, should be made. A possible solution, that has been proven ef- fective in similar situations, is the placing of strategically located paved \bumps'' along the various roads. Drivers approaching the bumps would be forced to slow down before proceeding or ·rtsk damage to their vehicles. Whatever the best solution will be remains to be seen, but with the safety of so many at stake, a solution to this problem should be implemented quickly. OPEN MEETINGS Student Constitution To Be Discussed Thursday, Aprilli. 7-9p.m.,.Fox Lounge. ·Friday, April 18,4-6 p;m.,· Student Foruin,Room, 4th i=i. carnegie All are welcome to attend and express their opinions union col..,. • .. concorOienuao editor-in-chief · managing editor news editors features editors arts editor · photo editor sports editors assistant sports editor sports photo editor layout·editors ·copy editor business managers subscription editor calendar staff photo staff donna .creeley jim davis ed albro, ellen van dyke · · barb plotkin, paul grossman mandy abrams pamryan . rich hope, mark palomba bill curtin tom conway sue marr, raclielmandel ellen rubin julie isgro, larry leavitt sara simmons ellen •berger, maria rnanfredonia andrea bowers, paUl felnsot, dan booth, irwin menken, paul gersdansky · jeff steinberg, norm pflaster, mindy broser • CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student. body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehru:ma Publications, Inc., 8¥.! . Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607} 432-6737. Entered in : the Schenectady Post Office as third class· matter. Subscription · · rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywher~ in' the United States. remember. don your dickies! Skolnell- · Smeerely, PeterS. Lovis '83 Sigma Chi . Clambake.·' .,,,.\···· f ~, .• ,_ .· .···\·~·; (to Ct st s: Cl ri s e ~ r

Page 2 CONOORDIENSIS, April 10, 1980 Editorial Traffic Safety Walking back to a room on Lenox Road late at night, one is often faced with a frightening situation. There is a serious problem of controlling the traffic on campus, particularly at night. This is a situation that should not exist as it poses a genuine threat to the safety of Union Students, and the Union community as a whole. It is accepted that banning all cars from the campus would prove to be a great inconvenience to a large number of people. Short of banning all forms of traffic on campus, stringent steps to assure the safety of student pedestrians must be undertaken. At present, there is no place for a student, or anyone, to walk on the north road next to Jackson's Gardens. The lighting at night is not good and as a result, pedestrians cannot feel safe if they are walking on the grass next to the road. It should not be necessary to don \International Orange\ just to walk back to one's dorm at night. There appears to be only one traffic sign visible on that route, that being the ''stop\ sign at the end of the road. If there are ariy others, the fact that they are so difficult to find does not lessen the severity of the situation. Along with traffic signs, signs posting the school's speed limit·· should be erected. The speed limit on campus is 15 m.p.h., and even without a radar gun, it is easy to tell that cars tearing down the \psych straightaway\ and whipping through the \Carnegie S\ are exceeding the speed limit. Such drivers are occasionally present on campus; one evening a drunk driver failed to make .., the sharp turn in front of North dorm and went straight into the staircase railing at West Hall. If someone had been on the staircase, the results would have been disastrous. The blame cannot be placed fully on Campus Security; chase scenes reminiscent of \Starsky & Hutch\ reruns afford no solution to the problem. · The solution must begin with the drivers them- selves. The 15 m.p.h. speed limit is a reasonable one and should be respected by all drivers, regardless of the hour of day or night. While it may prove challenging to attempt the ''Achilles Rink to Diamantes\ run in record time, it is hardly worth the risk of not seeing a pedestrian fast enough. An appeal. to the administrators responsible for better lighting and pedestrian walkways, where needed, should be made. A possible solution, that has been proven ef- fective in similar situations, is the placing of strategically located paved \bumps\ along the various roads. Drivers approaching the bumps would be forced to slow down before proceeding or risk damage to their vehicles. Whatever the best solution will be remains to be seen, but with the safety of so many at stake, a solution to this problem should be implemented quickly. OPEN MEETINGS Student Constitution To Be Discussed Thursday, April17. 7-9p.m., Fox Lounge. Friday, April 18, 4-6 p.m., Student Forum,Room, 4th F=i. Carnegie All are welcome to attend and editor-in-chief managing editor news editors features editors arts editor photo editor sports editors assistant sports editor sports photo editor layout editors copy editor business managers subscription editor calendar staff photo staff express their opinions doima creeley jim davis ed albro, ellen van dyke barb plotkin, paul grossman mandy abrams pam ryan rich hope, mark palomba bill curtin tom conway sue marr, rachel man del ellen rubin julie isgro, larry Ieavitt sara simmons ellen berger, maria manfredonia andrea bowers, paul feinsot, dan booth, irwin menken, paul gersdansky jeff steinberg, norm pilaster, mindy broser CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8lh Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Letters Sigma Chi Clambake Attention Union Women, The 12th annual Sigma Chi Clambake is fast approaching and in association with it is the 3rd annual Derby Day c{)m- petition. Initiated two years ago, Derby Day was an instant hit with those participating. Not only was a good time had by all, it also gave each group the chance to do something charitable for the un~ derprivileged. · . Derby Day teams should consist of at least 10 girls with a larger number acceptable up to 15. Scoring of the competition is based ori Raffle Sales, Derby Chase, SIG-natures. and the Derby Day ev-ents held the day of the Clambake. The break~ down of the scoring system for each category will be bully explained by the team coach assigned to your team from Sigma Chi. Money raised from your raffle sales will be donated to a local charity under your team's name. So hurry and get your team together f.or a great time. If you are unable to amass 10 girls, please give us a call or get in touch with us somehow so that we might possibly work sDmething out with some girls in the . same situation, Please contact me, even if you drintt have a full team~ by Monday} April 14 o.r by the 18th t the latest, so that we can get the ban rolling f(ll* a fun and successfltl Derby Day. Thank you. Call 382·900,2, Ask for Jeff etty or Steve Wasserman. Dickies A~ainst Draft Dear Editor, On Friday, April 11. it is asked that Union College students who are against the draft dun their dickies in solidarity with all those wbo believe that a reinstitution of the draft would ,be a silly and inane change in Ameri,can polif!y.The dickie Seen1StP be ~he iQ.eal way t~ prot~st . .·· &t the diaft a:tld it1J) <fro~~ . . .. ;·t av~ila~le. Pl~~e a,:tt~-ast w-~ar an undershirt otr · . .a warm sweater •. I do not under..standttre logic of Ulos~ .ot .·our.· fellow compatrio~s who advocate the draft. With diminishing oil suppli~ it wilt\be cold eneugh next winter . withot¢ ,tlte. a•ded burden &f a · th,•fl.ft. Must · Am~ricans were bri.lught \fl in caring households, where .• yon ~dn't keel? the win?ows Qpelt.if 1t was cbillY m~tSide. Why is there now a natiopal ref.eren,- dnm for the draft? While r grant you that ~ may notJmo:w or understand all the intncaetes of international politics, I say that it is senseless to think that our getting cllest colds will force the Russians to withdraw from Afghanistan. Sure, Pm not going to argUe that the Rus;;;iana are probably nice people. BUt 1 think that threatening to give ourselves chest colds unless they abide by our decrees is both Childish and is pushing their benevolence a bit too far. I also have a small bone to pick with the other antiMdraft groups here. What's . this with the white armbands? No one cares if you get a draft on your arm. So· your arm gets a little stiff, so what! Let's all band together in one movement, and ,wjth our combined efforts we will beat the draft; so remember, don your dickies! Skolneil Dean KeUet To the Editor: Although I never perS(lnally believed in the negative at- tributes attributed to Dean Kellett, my first eXperience . with ·him shows them not to be conpletely unfounded. On Feb. 15, at approximately 6:00a.m., I went back to West from a · fraternity party, in~ toxicated. As 1 had misplaced my keys an(J could not enter the building, I smashed my elbow ,against the windQW in the door to get out of the snow and cold. Mr. Andolina heard my banging and let me in. He called Security wh{) questioned me and then allowed me to go to my rooon. First thing Monday morning I wt'lnt to Mr. Andolina's office to inquire about the consequences of my actions. Mr. Andolina was out sick but his secretary in~ formed me that I was t() appear in -front of the Conduct Com· mittee on Thursday, Feb. 20. At the Conduct Committee, Mr. Andolina explained that I was not the person who origirtally broke the window. In fact, Mr. Andolina first heard the wihdow break at about 1:00 a.rn.; then someone else attempted at about 3 a.m. but being as it is made out of ;Hpch thick riot glass. they only 'succeeded in cracking it. This was the con- dition of the window when I made the third attempt, only making the crack bigger. After Mr. Andolina explained this, the ' Committee told me that 1 would be hearing from Dean Kellett sh()rtly and would probably get a $25 fine. I felt this was a fair punishment for my misconduct. On March 12, I received.\ a . letter from Dean Kellett dated March 7. It informed me that I had been found guilty of breaking the window and a $25 Sincerely, PeterS. Lovis '83 htterview Touches Friend To the Editor: I read Matt Kayne's interview with the Polish defector, Voldiek Jachna, of the ·1976 Polish Olympic Hockey Team, and I was enremely touched and saddened by the situation in Puland. I bad the opportunity to meet Vo..ldick Jachna on Saturday night, before the scheduled Sunday, afternoon game with the Union Cullege team, at a reception for the team; held at the Polish Home on Crane St. He mentioned to me that his brother was on the team and that he was from Canada, but he did not discuss the details. None of the team memoors spoke English, but I could converse with them in Polish. Two team members adopted me and I them and as a result I attended the Sunday afternoon hockey game. They also c~lled me from Lake Placid. In my small way. I felt that I had tried to make them weloo:me in Schenectady and I have developed a friendship with them. Matt Kayne's article made me apprtlciate them all the more arid I will do whatever I can to get as many people as possible to read his interview. Thanks for a tremendous story! Mrs. Sophie V. Zych 1331 Fifth Avenue Schenectady, NY 12303 Spring Term- Expressions fine had been levied. A post· To the Editor: script added that the fine m~t be paid by March 14. As this was Spring Term at Union is quite the end of the te'ml, $25 was a a special event. Everybody is diffieult SU!ti to obtain orf SUCh out. c.Academics seem .• to hold short notice. Immediately I· second placet() recteati:On. The went to his office to ask, for an ()ampusis _!;llore lively an~ there extension. Since he was not i~ q . f~J;ti~nt~l ... ~t:y, ~at ayatl~bie at tl;tfl .tUQ$1entf .l went ·· ,.~.~. te .•.. l. 'Of':$; .· .. '. ~,4f9r el ~ . bae\{ 4£ tninut~s\'la~l\ · . : · now:~vet •. ~Ai~t . · f~~J::: ·· ' · .}\I· my. r~u~ • v.f; .· .··and w:tt1l a He . ·· S ·.• at Uniob ttl$0 is preaglu~d atwut irteS}Jo-n$i1liility'\ the .. mnec where· .. students ,have · ·~~g tb.~~~~~il~d money t&Jj.e: th'¢ <ippurtumty to expr~$~ tbeit outand:getnmnk~I&hf1Uldnave vicrws tQitt will hopefUlly inl· the m~ney to pay 'for· thlil ~ · prove lif.e at Union s& that this seqtienees of my abtions~· His Spring Term spirit can last into tane . ,that b.i$. attitude . . tfl ... ' e re. st. of the.· .. vt!'ar... First ..• was .· diced: ... ·. . d con.; seniors . will elf;ltJt two . itt'\ ltem 'With •· full .tfividuarl$to sit on th<t Alurntii knowl .of the eirettmstan~s 'G&uncil, ·still batting a V:Oi®' in· he pereeived fily action$ ;IS that . the affairs of their amaa; ~ater. of a rowdy fr,eshman m-. . tat~Jr· ill ~e .term} .Jre$bmen, dinati(lns ~ward.. . • l ··· $0PhtJ:(n6res and j\Qhiots. , will , believe that hi$ a$s~ii>ns, as elee? etass representatlvest well as his tone;\ were eo~~ student. gqverntnent .. le~d~rs ptetely unjustified. . . . and student trustees. It 1s un~ A person ~huuld Qnly be portant that the people W};)o are judged ,, with. complete tt'Qly dedicated to the welfare of l;tnowledge <Jf . the cir.. Union· run for these poSitions. eumstances, but Dean Kellett Most important, however, th~ fa.,iled .· to , uphold the . --ob-- student body must vote fur the · jeet.iveness required O·f an . people they feel will benefit administrator. Altlmugh ad... 1'14EM the most After all, minlstrative p<Jsitions are UniQn College is in efCiStence _inherently difficult, there were primarily for the students. It is other members of the ad- the· students' opinions that tninistrative staff who treated matter most. me fairly and as an_individuaL- so enjoy the spring at.Union. If they cO>uld maintain their lt is the best time of year to be objectivity, why could Dean · here. But bear this in mind: Kellett not maintain his? voice yoUr opinions for ne,a 'PerhapsDeanKelli'lttbadltad year. If you have the drive and a trying day, but he still should desir~, run for a position. If not, have been able to treat without vote with prudepce. Let's makt:! prejudices. I hope he does treat the most of our investment in others fairly, but if not, I un~ UniQil College. derstand why he is not well~ liked by many ,students. David C. Siegel - To I Pr l'\\'r Cl1 So ot htl ag tii su fE' m at at ir p h f< tl i.l t s ( (

OONOOBDJENSIS, April 10, 1980 Union Days And Nights: Winter Olympics by JIM DAVIS the proceedings on television and some even ventured ·up north to get the \Up Close and Some people say that Person'!'' views that television familiarity breeds contempt, or couldn't provide. at least boredom. And a good Despite problems - and there .E case for this .can be found right were some; just ask anyone f there. Talk to a senior who has who waited outside in 20-degree been here for the better part of weather for a bus lo get around four years, with no ti.me off for the isolated community - the terms abroad, either on his own whole package was spec- or with a Colle~e prog.ram. tacular. If you saw the Opening = ::::~~:=:=~~~~ Just about everyone wil'l or Closing Ceremony, you know that. ~ probably agree that four solid And it stands to reason that Jl,;\'V'A£4(l~ years spent on Union '.s 100-acre k 1 .. campus is more than enough to wor; ing there a so was exc1hng Of \'O'(lUtS(hc &osevelt'S.w· noses on Rushmore). take the bloom off the rose, not and glamorous. The sum of the to mention Carnegie Hall and parts does, after all, equal the whole. And, looking back, I ~he Nott Memorial. wouldn 'l trade those ex- But after having gone abroad periences for anything. . - if\ needn't be to Europe - this But it was sometimes difficult place can look a whale lot to appreciate the grandeur better. At least that's what this while it was haf!Pcning. It's sort columnist has found. It'shard to of like being here, or in a forest, beHeve, but some eight months- where you only choose to see the , tne whole Fall and Winter individual trees. Terms ...; have passed since I There were a number of times last went to classes here. when 15-hour days and harried Returning last week brought requests from time-pressed a cavfllcade of memories, as journalists - I worked in the well as plenty of new faces. My Press Information department - time off should make it easier to - obscured the magnificence of appreciate that dual attraction. the Olympics and their ideal of ''But time off where, man?\ friendly competition among the Thought you'd never ask. At nations of the world. the Winter Olympics in Lake For instance: Placid. I worked for the All Olympic personnel had to Olympic Committee. - receive accreditation cards. I Many of you watched parts of spent a week waiting on lines Jim Davis Northeast. If anyone asked us, though, lots of it was expected, real soon. Repeating that was less than honest and got repetitious. But anyone in th~ area knew what the situation was. And for those 1fbo weren't. it really didn't matter, since the TV broadcasts would be on the air in any case. For most people in Lake Placid during the Olympics, there was a certain amount of pressure. The whole world, it seemed, was watching what happened for those two weeks in February. And they expectPd- rightfully so - a good per- formance Of course, the whole thing ended in a blaze of glory and gold for the U.S. hockey team. It was their victory -- they were the ones who worked for and deserved it But it was hard for anyone not to be proud of their accomplishment. Those of us wj}o were there working or visiting didn't plan for that kind of ending. But it would have been awfully tough to think of a better one. Forum Funds 'u · v· ' ·.· nton 1ews and filling out forms before receiving one, compared to that, ID validation here at the beginning of the term isn't worth talking about. . Those who worked for the Olympic Committee received free box lunches. Great for tb.e first few days, but by the time When Chuck Mangione played his composition ''Give It All You Got\ that he wrote for the Olympics at the Closing The Forum concerned itself with the funding of several organizations during their April 1st meeting. By voice vote the Forum decided·to donate $300.00 towards the Senior Fling. This event had been funded by the forum in the past. The discussion was more lengthy and intense when the Forum debated the funding of a new group \Union Views.\ Union Views is an effort by several students' to form a student newspaper which would provide an alternative t'O Concordiensis. The debate centered aruund the need for another-student newspaper as well as availability -of funding for such an activity. Skepticism was also raised that there might not be enough \talent\ in-the Union community to support two student newspapers. . After much discussion it was determined that Unioo Views would not be, and indeed did not intend to be a competitor to Concordy, but rather, it would concern itself only with in- vestigative reporting and in this regard serve as a supplement to Concordy. Union Views had originally asked for over 1; 700.00 dollars in funding with the intention of putting out four, eight page issues. The Forum, however, felt that this was too much money to coJrtir:lit at this late date, in the year, and ip- stead granted the organization 1;000.00 dollars to use for the spring term. The money will be used almost entirely to cover printing costs. The Forum then moved on to a discussion of a proposal submitted by Dean Kellett, containing ·many ideas of the college center committee, that dealt with further renovations in Carnegie. The proposal in- cluded the building of a~lounge in the fourth floor hallway, the furnishing and creation of a study lounge complete with study cubicles in the fourth floor room presently occuPfed by the jazz ensemble, the renovation of the men's and women's rooms on the first floor near the pub, and the installation of several cabinets in the \stage-two. room on the third floor. At this stage all proposals are merely tentative and the Forum was only asked to express their thoughts on these ideas. Many members expressed concerns over the need_ for two -lounge type areas on the fourth floor and wondered whether they would really be utilized. Some members felt that the money obtained from the game room twhieh was to be used in con- structing th~ study lounge) might be better used u it was put back into the game room in the form of obtaining better and more interesting machines in an effort to upgrade the gameroom. No consensus was reached with regard to the possible use of the 4th floor room if it is not used as a study lounge. On a final note the Forum discussed the possibility of officially endorsing the Nott . Restoration Committee to be the senior class gift for 1980. All agreed that the issue was better left to the discretion of the senior class and was not really under the jurisdiction of the Forum. Girling Questions ~ Continye~ from page 1 Sigma Chi Clam Bake, and occasional outings held by local non-profit organizations. Money had been left by Wallace S. · Girling, class of 1917, to be used for athletic purposes and when the land where t'he Center is located came up for sale, the college purchased it with the intention of creating an athletic facility. However, at the present time, the only athletes using the Center are those utilizing the pool during the swnm~r months. There are several reasons as to why the Center is not used . more frequently for athletic events. The problem of ttansportation is a major reason. Dean Kellett said that the use of shuttle buses to bring teams back and forth from the Center was tried, but proved to be impractical. Lack of shOwering facilities at the Center is another important reason. Construction of showers would involve considerable cost to the college. Provost Huntley mentioned that poor access roads. and parking problems stand in the way of holding athletic events at the Center and President Mor.ris believes that students are not likely to attend events held at such a distance from the campus. The yearly upkeep- of the Center -is estimated to rWl anywhere from thirty-eight to sixty ttiousand dollars. This cost may.increase substantially this year as the town of Niskayuna has put the Center on its tax roll. Up until now the property has been non-taxable due to its educational use and the college is challenging the move with a court case scheduled for this fall. In light of the limited use of the Center, especially for athletic events, the ad- ministration does not feel it can justify the high costs of maintenance. Dean Kellett feels that the money obtained from selling the Center could be- used to upgrade the athletic facilities here on campus. Such im- provements as upgrading and re-surfacing pl-aying , fields would be of more benefit to students than the keeping of the Center. At this time, however, the _ Girting Center is not of- ficially for sale, although the college does seem to have a desire to sell it at some time in the future. the Games had ended, after more than three week& of eating practically nothing but them, they were no longer a novelty item. Not much snow fell this winter in Lake Placid or,. for that matter, anywhere in the ·Ceremony, he provided for many, an accurate swnmation of what it was like to contribute to the Lake Placid Olympics. It wasn't all perfect. But it was darned good. We gave a lot and probably received as much back - in both experiences and friendships that will continue to be remembered long after those snows of winter melt. Where to go to dinner when the parents are in town? The Cranberry Bog. One of the finest seafood houses in the . area. Also featuring veal, beef and fowl. Dinn~rs served from 5 pm daily and 1 pm on Sunday. Luncheon served Monday thru Saturday 11:30 to 2:30. Reservations suggested, phone 459-5110 1Jffi- ~ cranuerry·o BOG Restaurant, Inc. 56 Wolf Road Serving Daily & Sunday 459-5110

t r ':) 1 e f '• e e t ., e s t . ' :t d ., e n ~1 l s ' j 1 t { :I l 3. t s :t :1 ~ I ~ j { j l 1 [ OONOORDIENSIS, April 10, 1980 Page 3 Letters Union Days And Nights: Winter Olympics Oh.jects Unite To the Editors: Hi! I'm B.O. Graphy...;Vice President of the Conceptual Frameworker's Union in Charge of the Political Socialization of Inanimate Obje<:ts. We ·believe Objects have been discriminated against long enough and it's time for a change. Drawbacks such as not being able to reproduce, communicate. or mov€ under their own power are no reasons for the many atrocities objects must suffer. Our conspicously confidential inside source at the Dissociated Press (code name deep moat) has t with complete disregard for his own life) determined that the increase in the average annual institl)tionalization of the nuclear family energy ·superstructure has resulted in f according to our careful crosstabulation l a habitually structured brain :salad washing system so predictable as to ·cause a G.l. Joe Action Figure's right to circulate a petition for a write in candidate in a Mafia School Board Election to be externalized to the point where a significant percentage of the radical right wing sediroentarv rocks in the nadir of the Caspian Sea 'will no longer be able to socially control the less readily accessable blue-green aquatic centers of somewhat advanced civilization, particularly the University of Whales. Decorative ice molds are finally beginning to linguistically objectify the pretheoretical symbolism of the onion food preparation role. Owing to the unreasonably excessive an· ticipatory reality of the current Weltans'Chauung, chess sets are forced to find emergency shelter in various national monumeats, m<mY of wh~m are simply unt:lble to help. (Except of eo urse, Lineoln and Roosevelt's noses on Mount Rushmore}. Things cannot go on like this. No sel £-respecting academic community can afford to tolerate this kind of behavior. Objects are people too. I hereby· proclaim this. week 1nter- national0bjects Week; take an object to lunch (They don't eat muchl. I also urge the entire catnpus community to join the Schenectady· G'hapter of the Conceptual Frameworke,r' s Union .. Please handle objects with love; care is not enough.· · Sincerely, B.O. Graphy. by JIM DAVIS Some people say that familiarity breeds contempt, or at least boredom. And a good case for this can be folllld right there. Talk to a senior who has been here for the better part of four years, with no time off for terms abroad, either on his own or with a College program. Just about everyone will • probably agree that four solid years spent on Union's 100-acre campus is more than enough to take the bloom off the rose, not to mention Carnegie Hall and the Nott Memorial. But after having goBe abroad - i(needn 't be to Europe - this place can look a whole lot better At least that's what this columnist has found. It· shard to believe. but some eight months- - the whole Fall and Winter Terms ·· have passed since I last went to classes here. Heturning last week brought a cavalcade of memories, as well as plenty of new fac·es. My time off should make it easier to appreciate that dual attraction. ··But time off where, man?\ Thought you'd never ask. At the Winter Olympics in Lake Placid. I worked for the Olympic Committee. Many of you watched parts of Forum Funds 'Union Views' The Forum concerned itself with the funding of several organizations during their April 1st meeting. By voice vote the ForWll decided to donate $300.00 towards the Senior Fling. This event had been funded by the forum in the past. The discussion was more lengthy and intense when the Forum debated the funding of a new group ''Union Views.\ Union Views is an effort by several students to form a student newspaper which would provide an alternative t'O Concordiensis. The debate centered around the need for another student newspaper as well as availability of funding for such an activity. Skepticism was also raised that there might not be enough \talent\ in- the Union community to support two student newspapers. After much discussion it was determined that Union Views would not be, and indeed did not intend to be a competitor to Concordy, but rather, it would concern itself only with in- vestigative reporting and in this regard serve as a supplement to Concordy. Union Views had originally asked for over 1, 700.00 dollars in funding with the intention of putting out four, eight page issues. The Forum, however, felt that this was too much money to commit at this late date, in the year, and i!l- stead granted the organization 1,000.00 dollars to use for the spring term. The money will be used almost entirely to cover printing costs. The Forum then moved on to a discussion of a proposal submitted by Dean Kellett, containing many ideas of the college center committee, that dealt with further renovations in Carnegie. The proposal in· eluded the building of a lounge in the fourth floor hallway, the furnishing and creation of a study lounge complete with study cubicles in the fourth floor room presently occup'fed by the jazz ensemble. the renovation of the men's and women's rooms on the first floor near the pub, and the installation of several cabinets in the \stage-two\ room on the third floor. At this stage all proposals are merely tentative and the Forum was only asked to express their thoughts on these ideas. Many members expressed concerns over the need for two lounge type areas on the fourth floor and wondered whether they would really be utilized. Some members felt that the money obtained from the game room ( which was to be used in con- structing the study lounge l might be better used if it was put back into the game room in the form of obtaining better and more interesting machines in an effort to ~upgrade the gameroom. No consensus was reached with regard to the possible use of the 4th floor room if it is not used as a study lounge. On a final note the Forum discussed the possibility of officially endorsing the Nott Restoration Committee to be · the senior class gift for 1980. All agreed that the issue was better left to the discretion of the senior class and was not really under the jurisdiction of the Forum. Girling Questions Continued from page 1 Sigma Chi Clam Bake, and occasional outings held by local non-profit organizations. Money had been left by Wallace S. Girling, class of 1917, to be used for athletic purposes and when the land where the Center is located came up for sale, the college purchased it with the intention of creating an athletic facility. However, at the present time, the only athletes using the Center are those utilizing the pool during the summer months. There are several reasons as to why the Center is not used more frequently for athletic events. The problem of transportation is a major reason. Dean Kellett said that the use of shuttle buses to bring teams back and forth from the Center was tried, but proved to be impractical. Lack of showering facilities at the Center is another important reason. Construction of showers would involve considerable cost to the college. Provost Huntley mentioned that poor access roads and parking problems stand in the way of holding athletic events at the Center and President Morris believes that students are not likely to attend events held at such a distance from the campus. The yearly upkeep of the Center is estimated to run anywhere from thirty-eight to sixty thousand dollars. This cost may increase substantially this year as the town of Niskayuna has put the Center on its tax roll. Up until now the property has been non-taxable due to its educational use and the college is challenging the move with a court case scheduled for this fall. In light of the limited use of the Center, especially for athletic events, the ad- ministration does not feel it can justify the high costs of maintenance. Dean Kellett feels that the money obtained from selling the Center could be used to upgrade the athletic facilities here on campus. Such im- provements as upgrading and re-surfacing playing fields would be of more benefit to students than the keeping of the Center. At this time, however, the Girling Center is not of- ficially for sale, although the college does seem to have a desire to sell it at some time in the future. the procee<imgs on television and some even veNtured up E north to get the \Up Close and IE Person'!\ views that television couldn't previde. > .c Despite problems - and there .2 were some; just ask anyone .2 who waited outside in 20-degree a.. weather for a bus to get arot:111d the isolated c0mmunity - the whole package was spec- tacular. If you saw the Oper1ing or Closing Ceremony, you know that. And it stands to reason that working there also was exciting and glamorous. The swn <Jf the parts dues. after all. equal the whole. t\nd, looking back, I wouldn't trade those ex- periences for anything. But it was sometimes difficult to appreciate the grandeur wlu!P it was happening. It's sort Df like bPing here. or in a forest. when· wuonh choose to see the mdividual trees, There were a number of times when 15-hour davs and harried requests from· time-pressed journalists - I worked m the Press Information department · · obscured the magnificence of the Olympics and their ideal of friendly competition among the nations of the world. For instance: All Olympic personnel had to receive accreditation cards. I spent a week waiting on lines and filling out forms before receiving one, compared to that, ID validation here at the beginning of the term isn't worth talking about. Those who worked for the Olympic Committee received free box lunches. Great for the first few days. but by the time the Games had ended, after more than three week!! of eating practically nothing but them, they were no longer a novelty item. Not much snow fell this winter in Lake Placid or, for that matter, anywhere in the Jim Davis Nertheast. If anyone asked us. though. lots of it was expected. real soon. Repeating that was less than honest and got repetitious. But anyone in the area knew what the situation was. And for those ~bo weren't, it reallv didn't matter. since the T\' br~adcasts would be on the air in anv case. For ui:ost peopll· in Lake Placid during the ( ll~·mp1cs. then• was a certain amuunl of pressure. The whole world. it seemed, was watching wh<lt happened for those two \H'Pks in February. And tlwy expt:l'tPrl - rightfully so - a good per- formance Of l'ourse. thL' whole thmg ended in a blaze of glory and ~old for the U.S. hockey team. It was their victon· ·- thev wert the ones who v.:orked f~1r and deserved it. But it was hard for anyone not to be proud uf their accomplishment. Those of us who were there working or visiting didn't plan for that kind of ending. But it would have been awfully tough to think of a better one. When Chuck Mangione played flis composition \Give It All 'You Got\ that he wrote for the Olympics at the Closing Ceremony, he provided for many, an accurate summation of what it was like to contribute to the Lake Placid Olympics. It wasn't all perfect. But it was darned good. We gave a lot and probably received as much back - in both experiences and friendships that will continue to be remembered long after those snows of winter melt. Where to go to ditmer when the parents are in town? The Cranberry Bog. One of the finest s-eafood houses in the area. Also featuring veal, beef and fowl. Dinn~rs served from 5 pm daily and I pm on Sunday. Luncheon served Monday thru Saturday 11:30 to 2:30. Reservations suggested, phone 459·511 0 THE--~ cran5erry0 BOG Restaurant, Inc. 56 Wolf Road Serving Daily & Sunday 459-5110

Page4 OONOORDIE'NSlS; April 10, 1980 Professor Frank Gado 'I'he following interview with Professor Frank Gado will be presented in two parts. This is theHrst in a series of interviews with members of the campus community concerning the recent past, the present, and the future of Union. Professor Gado was chosen first because in the past he has spoken out on many subjects in an.effort to preserve the quality of education at Union; You were heavily involved in the move which finally ousted president Bonner. Do you think that the new governance system is .going to prevent another person from gaining the kind of autocratic control that he at- tained over Union? First of all, I think the question ()f g()vernance ·has nothing to do with the question of Bonner. This was a very . successful screen that he was able to put up. He claimed to the ti\ustees that he was hamb- strung by the governance system, and he .. stated that this system prevented him from goveming correctly; prevented him from exercising his office in the way he was meant to do it. Tbat is simply untrue. This was something he picked up and flayed us with. The trustees were completely flimflamed by Bonner's claim. I don't think Bonner ever -read the. gover- nance instruments. I don't think that the trustees have ever read the governance proposals, understandingly. But in one way governance is tied' in with Bonner because it's my view that if it had not been for student involvement, Bonner would never have been gotten rid of. The faculty had sbot .its bolt with the '-'no confidence\ resolution. From that moment on, the united voice of the faculty started to crumble and people started to make their own separate deals. As S()On as . trustees said \no :Sonner stays,\ lhere were all kinds of subtle inner and outer pressures to go along and march in step. If nothing else had happened I think Bonner woul d still be president of Union College now. In my view, what got rid of Bonner was the fact that students were involved. They had an unjated view of the morality of the situation : they knew through their involvement with the goverance structure what had gone on, and they would not let him off the hook. This inv.olvement was a valuable thing for Union College, not just because it got rid of Bonner, bu~ because the Have you considered · WhatanMS • • tn accounting can rne·an to you? Even if you have never had a single hour of accou11ting in any oi your college courses, you can take advantage of this opportunity to build a solid foundation in accounting concepts and have a rewarding career in professional accounting. At Northeastern University, you can get a Master of Science degree in Accounting in 15 months. The unique feature of this program, designed especially for non· accounting undergraduates, is that the first six moFJths of · the work in the basics of accounting is followed by a three month paid internship with a national public accounting firm. During the last six months of the program, intern expe~iences are integrated with class study jn preparation for the CPA Exam. There is a long standing and close partnership between the Graduate School and the leading public accounting firms: Arthur Andersent Afexander Grant; Arthur Ynung; Coopers _and Lybrand; Ernst and Whinney; Deloitte, Haskins & Sells; Laventhol and Horwath; Peat, Marwick, Mitchell; Price Waterhouse; and Touche Ross. The firms work closely with the school in program design and intern and graduate placement, as well as in providing scholar- ship grants. r-------------------------------------1 For more lrrlormation call (617) 437•3244 or write: I I Professor Joseph Golemme Graduate School of Professional Accounting NortheasternUniversity • 360 Huntington Avenue . Boston, .Mass. 02115 NarTJ.!l'----------------- I I I I I• I I I I I l Address----------------- I ~ I 1 City State Zip I I I I College Class I· I I L-----~--~----------------------------1 Northeast~rn University - Gado: On LiberalEducation students felt that they had a more intimate tie with their school-that th~y do have a voice. Not that they have a :determining voice-they have never kidded themselves about that, and there has never been that abuse of power that some were afraid of when we in- stituted the present governance system, I thin~, educationally it was and has been, valuable for students. They come to know how decisions are made or not made. It is a practical lesson in how not to do things, and there is a sense 9f involvement that you don't find at other ~cho6ls. I think that it has been a valuable resource, and I think that the power of the students will be severely diminished under the new governance system. Therein, there will came and attrition of whatever interest students now have. Sure, we can point to some decisions that student government have made that one or another of us would say were foolish, but we should also look at the very silly decisions that the faculty have been making not only for the . last ten years, but going back ·· into the nineteenth century.· Faculty certainly have no corner on wisdom, quite the opposite. In my own experience I think students tend to see things more Clearly than faculty, when they have in- formation, because they, don't have a vested interest. They don't carry the burden of the past and they're not affected by shifting political alliances. And, in all, I think this has been a suocessful experiment and I hate to see it chucked out. I see real changes between ' this system and the previous · system, but at the. same time I don't think its worth going to the barricades over. The mood has shifted. The faculty are badly scarred as a result of the recent past, and ther~ is a cer,tain lack of interest in these questions. The system that we have depends on academic leader- ship, and that is something we just didn't have under the Bonner years; not at all. It was this great sort of hiatus, and last year under· President Auburn everything was on hold. I think it's taking John Morris some time to learn about this in- stitution; what he is going to do I don't know; what sense he has of our educational future I don't know. I'm not pessemistic, I'm not optimistic. I'm just waiting. I have a good opinion of the • man, and I think he has a sense of integrity which clearly Bonner never had. I think all these terms were completely foreign to him. Words were things to be manipulated and language was cut off from 'ln~aning for him. But we'll see what happens. Damn little. It substituted one set of ills for another. We have not confronted the basic . question. We didn't confront the basix question when we drew up comp-ed. What happens is that you get administrators who perceive a pl'Oblem and decide sometbing must be done, and back of it all, whether they're wil!ing to admit it or not there is the question of how to make a rep11tatlon. How does an administrator conviace people that he is doing his job? He sets up a program. If an administrator simply improves the way in whiCh language is taught that doesn't make for a fancy item on his curriculum vitae. I don't mean to imply that he's necessarily eYilical about it, but an administrator tends to look for the splashy things: things that he can attach a name to so that he can put this down on his c. v. when he -goes · for his next job he can say· 1 'see, I instituted comp-ed,\ . \And what's that,\ says his prospective employer. \Oh that's a wonderful concept that everybody loves in which we took care of these terrible problems.\ Administrators coming in look for some way of identifying the_mselves with a program. I've talked to people at other institutions about comp-ed and .they think it's wonderful humor. They think · you're exaggerating. / Initially we eviscerated our required courses, and we were going to have this coinmon experience. Somehow, we were supposed to have. a common theme. One of the people who was involved in that program seriously prop()sed that the theme be water. We could do as a course water music and sonnets about water,· and chemists could come in and talk about water. It was that kind of crazy gimmickery that went on .. Now, to be sure, that one didn't float. If you'll pardon the pun. When c~mp·ed was revised a few years later, I remember a colleague of mine in the History department standing up and · saying \they were out there rioting in the streets and tearing things down\ and one thing he knew was that the solution would not come from what was in the classroom. Well the logical extension of this is to close down the school and send everybody out into the streets. But suddenly, Union students were hanging around local agencies working as ap· prentices and you were to get college credit forbeing a candy- ~ striper. That seemed insane to me, but that was the • new gospel. Incidentally, this very same faculty member later was a great critic of comp-ed. But nobody ever admits that he was wrong, and everybody on the ~ faculty seems to have a very You w~reheavily involved in- short memory. They forget You said that before. I said that before. · I'm heavily involved in lots of things, much to my grief. Another controversy that you had a lot of input You're an English major and you say .input? The founding and the ultimate demise of comp-ed. I had no \input\ What are you talking about? . You had things to say about comp-ed. Sure. Not good things. Right. · ·To what extent has Liberal Learning solved those problems? what the arguments were, who said what, when, and therefore they keep making the same mistakes over and ove-r again. The problem with comp-ed was that we never asked our- selves what educational pur- pose it was to serve~ how this core curriculum was to be related to the test of the college? Because basically in my view what the faculty wanted was something that would appease those who were crying for something new, and to be left alone in their own disciplines and iii their own departments. Comp-ed did that be~utifully. But there was all this funny business. One wonderful course that came out of c.omp-ed was that a gwup of . students would live tQgether m a house and they were to get credit for that because it · was a learning ex~ perience. I pointed out that I was almost thrown out of iJartmou_th for doing something similar, and here they were getting credit for it. I said, How do you justify this in an academic institution, and I was told .that any fears wer~ com- pletely unwarranted because, after all, the students would w.rite papers about it. I could just see that: coitus interruptus while someone scribbled a sentence describing the quality of the foreplay. The whole thing was absolutely insane, but nothing was too riducUlous. The students were up in arms about the system, and since they helped pay the bills, the college had to start paying some · attention. The committee was set up-and this was an exercise in taxon-omy-and decided that we must go .back to distribution requirements. But these were . old fashioned, and that would · not be looked upon as progress. Therefore, they decided to invent a new term: liberal learning. The students would fulfill requirements in various categories, which was set up to distinguish this system from what ·had gone before. The problem was, again, that they didn't ask themselves- what are the fundamental ingredients of Union's education? Sn t}.lat under any one Qf these rubrics, the most diverse · kinds of materials were brought together. You can take language as a perspective from another culture, so that you are learning verb form and that is perspective from another culture, You can take Shakespeare~~that's a per- spective from another culture- 110W, if there is ·anything that is fundamental to our cultural tradition, it's. Shakespeare. Let's face it, what liberal learning did was to say that almost any course at this college can fit one of· these classificatioRs. It does not say that this is a kind of minimal education in those areas which we find important. That program was talked about in a committee which the faculty had little ingress to, despite what Dean Btownlee subsequently said. At the time, the campus was in art uproar over Bonner, and paid very little attention. I kno:w I wrote \ that committee a letter, axid I said'1' d like to appear before it. I know . that at least one other colleague wrote a long letter- this was someone who was intimately associated with comp-ed and the running of it; and thought that he had per- ceived some of the things that were wrong with the system. He wanted to make sure that these :Qiistakes were not repeated. He was never' even given the courtesy of a reply. So much for open discussion. LQok, this is supposed to Qe a liberal arts college, and. presumably the humanities have a significant role in the · liberal arts. That liberal learning proposal was defeated in Division I almost unanimously. There was one vote for it. You'd think that perhaps there were some· significant objections to the proposal ' which should have been raised when we had more time. We never raised the question again. s, Spa Collel mixtt the 1 remE nisto Unio1 miss How~ sure ima€ pand fort Ur Coll4 New Att (NE prot haV wha ath: rec mai waf out NG tha set per v stil re< go~ In1 W< thE un sp _gu l lef Slf sp f01 ''r gr UJ vi cl al at IT Cl

• QONOORDIENSIS, April 10, 1980 Page 5 ;· Sports Recruitment Expa.nds by ROBERT BYRNES . Sports recruiting and Union College is an uncomfortable mixture to many members of the campus community who remember the often sordid history of Thomas Bonner, Union hockey, and the ad· missions office a few years ago. However, with policies that are sure to change a tarnished image, Union College is ex· panding its recruitment drive for high school athletes. this recruiting push has been will be determined in early May, when accepted candidates inform Union of their intentions. The process that the Athletic Department goes through in finding the best prospective athletes for Union College is very thorough. lFI the spring, a ma-iling is sent to the coaches of · high s.chools throughout the New York-Massachusetts- Connecticut area, indicating the kind of athlete that Unien is 1(1)oking for, specifying Union's median board scores, afld its general admissions requirements. After the coach~s respond, the Athletic Department ·checks with the high school guidance · offi~es to make sure that the 'Prospective athlete's academic record is up to Union's standards. Only after this is vetified is the athlete contacted personally by Union College. Until May,· 1977, Union College was a member of the New England ·Small Colleges A t h 1 e t i c Co ·n.f e r e n c e !NESCAG). NESCAC rules prohibited the college from having any personal contact whatsoever with prospective athletes, which limited recruiting efforts to mass- mailings, letters, and the like. It was only after Union was voted out of NESCAC and into the NCAA by the Board of Trustees that coaches could visit high schools and participate in personal recruiting for athletes. Women's sports at Union are still heavily restricted in their recruiting, since they are governed by the Association of Intercollegiate Athletics for Women (AIAW). However, there is currently a stroilg push underway to put women's sports under the same _guidelines as men's sports. , \We've got to make sure that the young man or woman can contribute tol the student qody at Union,\ says Dick Sakala, Union's athletic director, emphasizing the academic requirements that student athletes 'must meet before Union contacts them. \It doesn't do us any good, and it ·certainly wouldn't do the student body any good, to bring him to Union when he can't handle the amount of work and the academic environment.\ Sakala S!iYS that he would like to expand the geographic area that Union recruits athletes from, but \the bottom line .is· how much money you have to work with.\ Only some 5 per- cent of the Athletic Dep~rtment budget goes into recruiting, which finances the basic recruiting operations. Since the college doesn't provide any travel money for prospective college athletes to visit Union College, the Athletic Depart- ment must, out of necessity, In the three years since Union left NESCAC, there has been a slowly increasing emphasis on sports recruiting. This year the football program alone held five ''recruiting weekends,\ where groups of 30·35 prospec.tive · Union athletes and their parents visited the campus, sat in on classes, and were informed about the Union athletic and academic programs by members of the campus community. How successful THE WOMEN'S NETWORK - . invites everyone to a brunch i.n hdnor of the fi.rst entering class Of women at Union. Sunday, April13 1:00-3: oo p.m. Strauss Lounge -special guests will be women from the first co-ed class -there will be a slide-sound presentation by students on \Women at Union Today\ -homemade refreshments will be served Come and help us kick off Women's Week! Peace Co~ps and VISTA Volunteers CALL .JOE ADDIS COLLECT AT (716) 263-5896, OR lVRITE PEACE CORPS/ VISTA~ 317 FEDERAL BUILDING, ROCHESTER, NY 14614. concentrate its activities in areas easily accessible to the college. ' One of the areas that the Athletics staff hopes to cultivate .- in the near future is the Washington-Baltimote area. The footbaU team's schedule nas expanded so that Union will play the Georgetown University team in the 1981 season, giving the college some exposurethere as the admissions office begins a push for applicants in the region. Sakala hopes to get the area alumni group active in promoting Union College down there through meetings witl:l high schOol studeNts, studeNt Dick Sakala, Director of Athletics. athletes included. A slide show is also currently being put p·.a·. ·s.s/F. .a • 11 ·R·ev··,·.e· we· .d. to·gether b.y the college to promote Union and encourage applicants. Continu~d ft:om page 1 \Friends of Union Athletics,\ a booster club with about 300 or to satisfy Liberal Learning could not be taken pass-fail. But requirements and they ceuld until such changes are made · members, is also being looked at as a future source to sup- plement the athletic recruit- ment budget. Though the $15 annual dues are now used to offset the costs of newsletters and receptions for Union athletes and their families., Sakala foresees the day wben the young organization grows to the paint that it can provide funds to expand the reoruitment effort. · only take one per year. A policy tpe policy stands that if ~ such as this would eliminate student has taken a course in a any interpretation problems department he may not take and would make it very clear as another course in that depart· to which courses could and ment on a pass-fail basis. Two Get Fellows Currently, the hockey, football, and basketball programs are doing the largest volume of recruiting. There is a great deal of coordination between the recruitment efforts of each program. Since all of the assistant football coaches coach other sports, th,ey are able to combine their off-season .J!ecruit1ng for several sports. In addition to active recruiting, the Athletic Department also takes ad- vantage of an athletic questionnaire which is mailed out to each prospective Union student. Through the replies, the department is also made aware of potential athletes missed by the recruiting procedure. Many Union students have expressed concern at the lack of diversity of the Union student body. The athletic program's increased recruiting may be .. what is needed to attract qualified students from outside the New York area. The sum total of the increase in sports recruiting at Union can only result in an improved Athletic Department, but the emphasis on consultation of academic records also ensures that past mistakes' won't be repeated. Union College seniors Peter M. Hooper and Edward G. Horstmann have been awarded 1980 Thomas J. Watson Fellowships, announced Harry Marten,. assistant professor of English at Union. Marten is Jbe college liason officer for the Watson Fellowship Program. I Hooper and Horstmann were among 176 college seniors nationwide who were nominated to receive a 1980 Watson Fellowship. Seventy fellowship grants totaling $562,000 were recently awarded by the Thomas J. Watson Foundation. Since its inception in 1968, the Watson F~llowship Program has provided nearly $6 million to enable college graduates of unusual promise to spend a post-graduate year of in- dependent study and travel abroad. The program is ad- ministered in cooperation with 48 small private colleges and universities throughout the · United States. At least one Union College senior has received a Watson Fellowship in each of the past 12 years, Marten sai!}. He called the program \a remarkable opportunitv for intellectual COLLEGE ACCREDITED PROGRAM DIVING • DIVING SCIENCE AND MARINE SCIENCE May18-31 Coral Beef Ecology Course Key Largo Floflda Key Larqo Flor~da Cozumel. MP<~CO $510 00 $280 DO $375 00 June 14-21 S!)'Ort D•vtng Course June 21-28 Sport Dtvtng Course July 7-11 Underwater Photography Course Key Largo. Flonda $470 00 w•th Stephen Frink P.O. Box 415, Northampton, Mass., 01060 • (413) 586-3448 HAAGEN DAZS NATURAL ICE CREAM Tel. (518) 346-7012 ~pei/J / growth and- self discovery. The competition is intensely com- petitive, and Union College is pleased to have two Watson Fellows this year,\ Marten said. Hooper and Horstmann have planned the following courses of study: Hooper, a 1976 graduate of Hunterdon Central High School in Flemington, N.J., will spend a year living and working on a commune in the People's Republic of China. He has studied the Chinese language both in high school and at Union College, and in 1978 spent six months living with a Chinese family in Taiwan. He designed his major at Union around his interest in Chinese studies. Hooper's post-graduate academic plans include studying for a master's degree in business administration with a concentration in international management. He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Glenn Hooper of RD 2, Flemington. NJ. Horstmann, a 1976 graduate of Mt. Anthony Union High School in Bennington, Vt. has designed a program that will take him to small coastal villages in Scotland and Ger· many. There he will examine how village inhabitants give meaning to their world by at· taching symbolic importance to the signs, signals, and struc- tures in their physical en· yironment. Horstmann says, ·'I mtend to place particular emphasis on the way in which the coastal villager attaches a symbolic importance to the ocean, and how this special reverence manifests itself in the activities and social rituals that are performed on land.\ Horstmann plans post- graduate study in philosophy ; and theology. He is the son of Mrs. Norma Horstmann of 145 Convent Avenue, Bennington, Vt. Hours 10 to 9 FEINKOST & KONDITQREI 175 Jay Street Except Sundays Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 Watson Fellowships are awarded annually by the Thomas J. Watson Foundation, a .charitable trust established in 1961 in memory of Thomas J. Watson, Sr., founder~of the IBM Corp. The Fello!_Vship Program was begun in 1968 by Watson's children. Since that time, 822 fellowship awards . have been made.

.. Page 6 CONOORDIENSIS, AprlZ 10, '1980 culture Final Concert: Music From Madboro Music ·From Marlboro: Left to right - (standing) Hiroko Yajima, viol·in; Karen Dreyfus, viola; David Fincke!. ce.Ho; Carol Wincenc, flute. (Seated) Ralph Eva As, violin; Sarah Clarke, viola. The third and final Music from Marlboro chamber music concert to be heard at Union this season will feature a program of Mozart: Dvorak, and Mendelssohn at 8 p.m., Wednesday, April 16, in Memorial Chapel. This is also the last concert in the 1979-80 Union C<:>llege·Sc.henectady Museum International Festival of Chamber Music series. Highlighting the final Music from Marlboro concert will be the sec~md performance at Union this season of flutist , Carol Wincenc. Wincenc was first prize winner of the initial Naumblirg Flute Competition in 197B and has appeared both nationally and internationally as a solo recitalist and chamber musician. A native of Buffalo, she is a former principal and Chapin ·To Give Benefit Concert Phi-Sigma Kappa Fraternity of Union College will be spon- soring a special benefit concert this Sunday, April 13, at 7:30· p.m. at Proctor's Theater. The beneficiary will be the Food Policy Center, an organizatign dedicated to stopping today's greatest problem--the fact that our advanced technological society cann&t feed every citizen of Planet Earth. The concert culminates five months of intensive planning and fund-raising by the brothers of Phi Sig. After a discouraging beginning, sales have picked up_ Already, almost all of the six dollar tickets have-- been sold, and tickets priced at $4.75 are moving at an quickening rate. Accompanying Harry will be his brother Tom, winner of one of television's coveted Emmy Awards for his show, Make A Wish, and an accomplished singer in his own right. · such as Taxi, W-O,L-D, and Cat's in the Cradle, as weU as songs from his forthcoming album, tentatively called Sequel, which will be released this summer. Tickets are available at-Just- a Song in Albany and Saratoga, Carnegie Hall, and at Proctor's Theater at 432 State Street. Tickets will also be on sale at the door this Sunday. If you want to help a charity, and if you would like to see a great concert, then make it down to Proctor's Theater next Sunday for the Harry Chapin concert. solo flutist with the St.. Paul Chamber Orchestra. Wincenc will be heard in Mozart's ''Quartet in DMajor.'' The program will also include · \Terzetto in C Major, Opus 74\ by Dvorak and Mendelssohn's \Quintet in B Flat Major, Opus 87.\ Along with Wincenc,. per- formers· for the April16 concert wiH include: Hiroko . Yaji.ma; violinist, a faculty member at the State University of New York at Stony Brook who has been neard as a member of the Galimir String Quartet and as a guest artist with tt:te Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center; - Ralph Evans, \vi<:>linist for- mer chairman. of the string department of Duquesne The 2nd Chapter of Acts and-a bahd called David Friday, April 25 Palace Thea1er Albany, NY 8:00 p.m. Clinton Ave. 465-3334, 270-6517 no admission charge offering will be taken University currently per- forming in New York City; Sarah Clarke, violist, a graduate of the Curtis Institute of Music and a member of the Orpheus Chamber Ensemble, which recently completed a seven~ week tour (>f Europe and the Middle East; Karen Dreyfus, violist, 19J8 winner of t}le Hudson Valley International Competition and 1979 top prize violist in the Washington International Competition; and . David Finckel, cellist, a faculty member at -the Philadelphia College of the Performing Arts and cellist with the Madison Trio and the Emerson String Quartet. Music from Marlboro, begun in 1965, is an extension of the renowned Marlboro Music Festival in Vermont, now in its 30th year under the artistic direction of Rudolf Serkin. This winter, 26 artists have presented chamber music masterpieces for voice- and instruments in more than 50 cities throughout the U.S. and Canada. Union College is the only college in the country to host a three~concert Music from Marlboro series. Tickets for the final concert are $5 for the general public and $3 for students. They are available at the Schenectady- Museum (telephone 382-7890 or 312~3651); Community Box Offices at Colonie Center and the Empire State Plaza; and at the door at 7 p.m. the night of the concert: The Food Policy Center at- tempts to alleviate this problem by raising money to initiate legislation that allows supplies of precious grains to fall into the hands of tho~ who need it the most--the people who don't have it. Chapin is deeply committed to this cause, performing over one hundred benefits. a year. He is rare among entertainers, because he is one of the few who is willing to constantly devote time, energy and talent to aid the plight of the needy. The Chapins are famous for their extensive concerts, which often last two and one-half hours. Harry is especially known ·for his ability to establish a rapport with his audience, and for his ability to make the concert-goer feel as if he is sharing something special with the singer. The Second Chapter_of Acts It is anticipated that Chapin will perform his renowned hits \All we want to do is play the music that will establish the most beautiful setting for the love relationship between Jesus and His Bride, the Church.\ The ·auggles. Boggle by ROBERT BLAKE The Buggies are a new group from England who have hit the music scene with a debut album called The Age of Plastic. Although instrwnental credits are not given, the composing is done by two people, Trevor Horn and Geoffrey Downes. Some of the songs are also co- composed by the new Columbia recording artist Bruce Woolley who used to be a member of the Buggies, and there are several songs that overlap on both of these artists debut albwns. Those listening to their radios will already be familiar with some of the songs from the Buggie's album which are receiving airplay, such as \Living in the Plastic Age\ or \Video Killed the Radio Star\ a top 40 single in almost every · country around the world ex- cept for the U.S. - The instrumentation of thei Buggies are basically three pieces dominated by keyboards with a bass and drwn rythym section, making them reminescent of Flash and the Pan 1 although the Buggies heavily augment their music with female backing vocals. There keyboard dominated music is not punk or new wave in any way. While the mid- paced music on >this album is hardly dance music it is ex- tremely entertaining to sit back and listen to, or its sweet sound' makes it fine for background music. It is hard to characterize their music. As can be discerned just from the title of their album, this debut effort's lyrics are in a futuristic mold much like Gary Numan or Devo,- only done in a far more sophisticated, humorous, and theatrical way. While Devo and Numan have tried to capture a simple, repetative, mechanical sound in their music, the Buggies have a lush and somewhat complex sound. The arrangements of their music are very sophisticated, innovative, and despite their limited in- strumentation, the Buggies are never boring. The vocals and background vocals are especially well arranged. D.espite the technical polish of their work the Buggie's songs are pervaded with a childish perversity. An example of this is that the Buggies do romantic songs about people such as Astroboy. In a sense they are very much like 10 CC although far more limited in their in-- strumentation and lyrical scope. . The Buggies are one of the more unusual and entertaining acts to come down the road in a long time. What I wonder is where they will develop from here- One of the major drawbacks I see in this album is that their music is all bound .in one futuristic, science fiction vision, which as can be evidenced by Devo, tends to play itself out after q_ne album. Beyond this fault, however, the Buggies have produced a very strong debut album. It is v~ry accessible and filled w1th catchy melodies to make it easily salable on the pol} music market, yet . there is an un- derlying intelligence and charm to this music that makes it suitable for the most sophisticated of rock listeners. UMOC BEWARE • • • (lfs Cor-ning) That's how producer and manager Buck Herring describes The Second Chapter of Acts, who ·wm be~coming to the Palace Theater in Albany on Friday, April 25, at B:OO p.m. With their dedication to deepening the romance between Christ and His Church, Second Chapter has become one of the most successful and innovative groups · in contemporary Christian music. The trio of two sisters and a brother-Annie Herring, Nelly Greisen, and Matthew Ward- landed their first recording contract with MGM Records about a. decade ago, ·when Matthew was 13 and Nelly 15. Since then, they have recorded several albums, including the top selling album in the history of contemporary Christian music, \To the Bride,\ a joint effort with Barry McGuire and A Band Called David. '':rhe Roar of Love,'' the trio's latest album, was just released by Sparrow Records. The album's songs, written by Annie Herring, who writes most the group's material, is based on The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, the first book of C.S. Lewis's Narnia chronicles. Second Chapter prefers to think of themselves not as entertainers,_but as ministers of God's love and messengers of His Word of salvation. Although recordings have a large impact, concerts are bonsidered to be the primary vehicle for the _group's ministry, with over 80 of -them a year. The Palace Theater concerT will include A Band Called David as backup. As usual, no admission will be charged, although an offering will be taken during intermission. For further details, contact Rensselaer Christian Community Rensselaer Polytechnic - . Institute Troy, New.Yorkl2TIIT 274-5671 or27'0-6517 1st Act 2nd Act Mary Szot ~ Felkia Sa.lvadon Tom Farrell Tom House MC: Steve Auerbacli Yes! ~t's the 1-st Cabaret of ~pring Term · and one not to be mi's_s~d. cu Wo -The ~ posers< remedy inform Musk music r hidden worth ~ The : tensivE under Council diScuss as well lecture attitud' comp< music< to pat Then voice, glass Medie' day. Hildel Eliza! Guert Schun Hense Schin Craw Boula Julie' Ellen Jul Friec lectm Worn their broac Radi prog1 s I 1 wil Sp4 Bil sir fe: fe~ fr< te in yu N: pi PE te PI l c v 'II

OONOORDIENSIS, April 10, 19$!) . ~~ Page 7 culture Women's Network Sponsors: Music by Women -The silence of women com- posers deserves attention and ;:1. remedy. An entertaining and informative lecture-recital, Music By Wemen presents music rarely heard, overlooked, hidden, unappteciated--and worth your time. Friedman co-direct a successful chamber music series in Albany and Troy, N.Y. New York State Council on the Arts. Music By Wemen is made possible by a grant from the N.Y. Council for the Humanities. The program will be presented at Union College in Memorial Chapel on Thursday, April 17, 198Q at 8:00P.M. It is being s.p9psured by the Women's Network of the college as part ·Of the annual Women's Week on campus. The public is invited and admission is free. Album Review: Julie Kabat and Carole Friedman present Music by Women The lecture is based on ex- tensive research conducted under a grant from the N.Y. Council for the Humanities and discussions with musicologists as well as living composers. The lecture examines how social attitudes have affected women composers' self-concepts, musical education, and access to patronage and audi~pces. The recital features music for voice, piano, harpsichord, and glass harmonium~ from Medieval .times to the ,present day. Compo~ers · include Hil@gaarde von Bingen, Elizabeth Jacquet de La Guerte, Clara Wieck Schumann,. Fanny Mendelssohn Hensel, Josephine Lang, ~a­ Schindler · Mahler,_ Ruth Crawford Seeger, Lili Boulanger, Grazyner Bacemcz, Julie' Kabat, Ann Silsbee, and Ellen Taaffe Zwilich. Julie Kabat has studied composition with Ron Nelson,. Hall Overton, and Jaceb Drllck- man, and voice with Karen Ranung. Her compositions have been performed in major cities in the UoS. and Cyprus\ Her quartet, In 'Returu, was pretnier,ed' by the Concord String Quartet, and she has received commissions from the Circle Repertory Gompany in N.Y.C. and from many artists and sculptors. She has . per- formed widely witlr various . contempOI\ary experimental music groups, and for four years directe\1 the Composer's Forum in Albany, supported in part by grants from the New York State Council on the Arts:-- 'Glass Houses' Julie Kabat and Carole Friedman have presented lecture~recitals of Music By Women at many colleges, and their performances have been broadcast on, National Public Radio. In addition to this program, Ms.. Kabat and Ms~ Carole Friedman, pianist, has studied with Emil Dannenberg and Edna Golandsky. She has, appeared as solo and chamber pianist in colleges and concert halls threughout New York State, including a recent ..ap- pearance at Carnegie Recital Hall; earlier years included two student appearances as soloist with the Philadelphia Orchestra. Currently an M.A. candidate in piano and arts administration, Ms. Friedman has initiated and directed several musical projects which have received grants from the by JIM DAVIS Over the past few years, probably no rock music per- sonality has achieved more accla:lm and success than Billy Joel. Two of his albums, \The Stranger,'' released in 1977, and the following year's \52nd ·Street\ sold so many copies that their residence in the Top 100 began to look like permanant lodging. Billy has gained notoriety and experience. And on his latest album, \Glass Houses,\ he lets everyone know that he feels he's come of age. The album has a number of distinctive sound effects, and the first one comes even before the first cut begins. It's the sound of a rock shattering glass- -in line with the albwn's title, as well as tip-off of what's to come. Don't expect Billy to sound like anything he has before. In place of the catchy piano riffs that characterized his early work and the lush orchestration of his later, more celebrated, efforts is a stripped-down_ ragged sound. There's a sense of urgency to his latest offering. Hinting more at that brand of music known as \new wave\ -than anything else, it represents a clear develop- ment in his style. Whether that means progress is up to you. Bill Staines at Cotfeenouse, This could be Joel's Sound for the Eighties. But.Ldon't like it. It's jarring, upsetting. And by so performing, the artist_ loses much of his distinctive flair that attracted me to him in the first Spring Terlll's First ·Coffeehouse place. - Following the opening -rock, Joel quickly establishes himself as a man of experience in the first song, \You May Be Right.\ This Fri., Aprilll coffeehouse will start spring term . with a special performer - Bill Staines. Bill has travelled the country singing at college campuses, festivals, cLubs and cof- feehouses. His repetoire ranges from traditional folk to con- temporary country ballads including. sing-alongs and yodeling numbers (Bill won the National Yodeling Cham- pionship in 1975) ~ He has ap- peared on radio progr.ams and televisio.:n shows and has produced 2 suct:essful albums. There wHI be a meeting of -U.C.A.N. UNION COLLEGIATE$ AGAINST NUKES Thursday, April lOth, 8 • ·P.m.-. in Lowe-r Hale House _ Will\ discuss: Spring plans Washington D~C. rally 4-26 . 28 . ' . Bill's aiways been a favorite at Union, known for his \gentle humorous style and expert guitar picking, sing yodeling and joking\. Come relax and~ enjoy the evening Fri., April 11 at 8:30 in the Old Chape:l. Here, he tells us that he's '.'been stranded in the combat zone\ and has :•walked through Bedford Stuy alone.'' What's more, he's \even rode my IT'S THAT TIME AGAIN! April 25th, 26th and 27th is Parents \'weekend. There will be a mul.titude of events: a campus jog, departmental recep.tions, lacrosse, tennis,- rugby games, cabaret, Coffee House and much in one evenl.The big band craze has made its way to Union College; ttlere will be a dance on Saturaay evening with the Jimmy Dorsey Band at the Ramada Inn. S\o tell your parents and come to the Student Affair~ OfficE! now for tickets. We look forward to seeing you there. -The Parents Weekend Committee , The Student Environmental Alliance will be having a meeting on Monday, April 14 at 6:.45 in Conference Rm. A, Carnegie Hall: Plans for Earth Day to be discussed. All are w.elcome. motorcycle in the rain\-a- real display of valor, he see_ms to say. He admits that his bold style mignt not be to everyone's liking: \I may be crazy.\ But, then again, \it may be just a lunatic you're looking for.'' And, in any case, it doesn't really matter, because \it's too late to change me.\ In the words of one of his most popular songs, we're going to have to love-or at least accept- Billy just the way he is. And in \Glass Houses,\ that can be downright obnoxious. Take, for example, the 11ext cut on the album, ''Sometimes a Fantasy.\ Here, he finds himself having to telephone a girl \in the middle of the night.\ \I know it's awful hard to try to make love long distance,\ he admits.. \But I really needed stimulation, though it wa1; only my imagination. Trashy, isn't it? It's not so much the subject matter itself as it is Jqel's treatment of it. He's considered mundime, even somewhat seamy subjects before. (\Captain Jack,\ for instance, is no Sunday School picnic.) But, previously, his treatment lent a certain dignity to the proceedings. Not so on his latest outing. Union Arts to Produce Now, he appears to have become world wise and even weary. He's seen and done it all, and is disinterestedly going through the motions. In \Sleeping With the Television On,\ he knows that \I'll just be standing here, 'cause I know I don't have the guts to come on\ to a girl named Diane. But at the same time, he tells her that, unless she \takes some chances,\ she'll also be spending the night alone, \with the television on.\ There's -little arguing with thaL But in treating these everyday encounters as a fait accompli rather than .as an ()penended adventure, Billy Joel is taking much of the glamour out of them\ There's something of a lossof innocence in this album. But, in fairness, Joel was never any Babe in Wonderland, even in his earliest recordings. What really . upsets this reviewer about \Glass Houses\ is the 'way it reinforces the album's haughthy tune. Like a subcompact car, it's stripped- down and hard driving. Maybe that's what's right for the times. But I much prefer the Billy Joel of the 1970s\ He did things . at his own pace. It was fun. And it had class. 'The Hairy Ape~ As the first production of the 1980 spring term, the Arts Department of Union College in Schenectad¥, New York, will present Eugene O'Neill's T~e Hairy Ape in the Nott Memorial Theatre ·on the evenings of Thursday, April 24 through Sunday, April 27, at 8 p.m. Production Director and Designer, Dar·i P. Beninati of the Union Arts Department, has chosen this work because it is \a play that most. Americans have read, but few, tf any, have had the opportunity to see.'' The Hairy Ape is the saga of Yank, a twentieth-century Everyman, who is compelled to search for his niche in the universal scheme. Desite its timeless theme, this O'Neill drama has seldom been produced since its original staging by the Provincetown-Players in March -of 1922, because of the play's extremely difficult scenery, special effects and lighting. The Union production of The Hairy Ape will utilize Mr. Beninati's a ward-winning design, originated at SUC at New Paltz in the mid-sixties. Seating for The Hairy Ape will be limited\ Reserved seat tickets wiH be available at the Nott Memorial Theatre box office starting on April 11. Ticket prices are $1.50 for students and $3.00 for others. Bloodmobile to be held April 23 & 24 in Strau~ Lounge 11:00-5:00. . .. For more illfG, check with Lorraine Mana, 6118. J

Page 8 CONOOR:DIENSIB, Ap.ril 1.0, 1980 Blue Skies Over Union BY D. BOOTH \Take one armful of Sassafras roots, well cleaned and tender, and place in boiling water for three days running ... \ ( Courtesy of Foxfire) Such was an erstwhile recipe for the cure of a strange disease which was, and still is, quite likely to strike Union students during this term, namely Spring Fever. Its manifestations begin with an intense desire to be outdoors in -the sun, to lose oneself in the blue of the skies, and to let one's \fancy lightly turn.\ The cure for it, Sassafras Tea, i's no longer popular, if only because the disease is so en- joyable. downwards to the ground where · the last remnants of snow hug close the nipples of the moun- tains and· the first violet blossoms spring forth, to be crushed underneath the feet of the triumphant divers. But the dive is both a victory and a failure: the victory of having completed the jump, and the failure of not being able to remain indefiniately suspended u,pon the sky-strings immersed in blue. For those who are interested in trying some of these ac- tivities or all of them as the case may be, it is now officially spring and the time to be out doing them. Those interested in skydiving may contact Brad Kushner, erstwhile member of the now defunct Uni:on Skydiving Club. Hang--gliding lessons will be given this spring by the same Brad Kushner and by Brad Fisher, another en- thusiast, for all who wi!lh to try, albeit from a much lesser cliff than that of Ellenville. And kiting can be done at very small expense from any of the small stores in this area. Enjoy Union under Blue Skies-fly Union. In the spring Union's skies are always blue, in fact so blue that· when one stares into the sky there is an illusion of falling. This can be intensified by one of Union's favorite springtime sports; skydiving. Most people shy away from anything so \mad\, but there are those who follow the example of Icarus and seek their wings. There is, however, a way to remain indefinitely suspended in the blue for more than a few minutes, hang gliding. This sport _can leave one floating in the air for up te three ho1.1rs at a time and attaining an altitude of up to eight thousand feet. The popular place in this area, according to enthusiast Brad Kushner, is Mt. Cathalia in Ellenville about one and a half hours from here. This mountain has an eight hundred ft. cliff from which Brad has achieved heights of six thousand ft. The interesting thing about hang gliding is that the control rests with the pilot. First the run, then a gentle lift. off, and then one is hanging above a valley several thousand feet above the Earth. (Look for this column next week~places to go, things to do, and people · to meet-atypical wine, women, and song-:-all at Unien in the spring.) Skydiving-a Union Spring favorite. Skydiving begins with a brief five hour lessoR, basically comprisi.ng emergency procedures in the event of a very long first step. But the actual dive is more exciting than the uninitiates can imagine. The plane is a tiny ,plane which he uses ·four jum- pers and a jumpmaster who J)tnpoints the target. There is a roar of engines, a few rather obnoxious bumps, and then airborne! It's smooth sailing off into the wild blue yonder. My pwn personal memories are of a high never before attained, about three thousand feet, to be eJQact. At that height there is nothing but blue. It is an icy blue; fingers numb in the a_ir and there is a crisp smell as the jumpmaster yells \ready~go.\ The fall is quick, surrounded by azure. I must say that one feels almost spiritual floating gently Of course, for those who wish to keep both feet firmly on the ground,/ there is always kite flying. It may seem unimaginable that kite flying would hold any interest for anyone, but lately there has been a rash of kiting on campus. It was just yesterday that I saw one launched to the calls of \Get it up, Shawn, get it up higher.\ I must admit that it did look exciting, and it certainly was 'novel. Kites come in all shapes and sizes to suit the individual taste, as well as in unusual colors such as electric pink and orgasmic orange. To watch a kite float along, its streamers trailing in the sun is definitely an enjoyable way to spend an afternoon at Union. Counselors: Adirondack Boys' Camp; 1V2 weeks. $500· · $600; ·Sailing, Trip Leaders, Riflery, Sports, Crafts, Driver; 39 Mill Valley Road, Pittsford, New York 14534 Term Abroad In Spain by SHERRY LAITMAN During my first 2% years at Uni.on · I have had many satisfying, as well as enjoyable, learning experiences. However, I think this past term in Spain represents an integral and vital facet of my college education. When I speak of education, I am referring to primarily what was learned outside of the classroom. I do not mean to insinuate that reading the works of Becquer, Molino, or Lorca were a waste of time. On the contrary, these novels . helped the group to better un- derstand the Spanish people. And thanks to Professor Judith Ginsberg, our group not only enjoyed reading literature, but in addition, we had th_e op- portunity to see various movies and dramas. · Classes were attended at the Center For Cross Cultural Study ( a slight euphemism for four quaint rooms, each one no bigger than a West double located, above a clock store). The three courses taught ·besides literature, which in- cluded a mini-course in art history, could hardly compare to the quality of education we . had received at Union. Although the professors' preoccupation with quantity rather than with the quality of the material taught did put a slight damper on the morale of our group, ''we did survive,\ (Gloria Gaynor what would we have done without you-? ) . In spite of ~ more or less general ·consensus of disap- pointment in the school, we did not permit. this to spoil .... our \experience abroad.\ Many days were spent just walking around the city of Seville, visiting different historical sites, exploring new parks, talking to people and, of cours~, discovering various bars. The bar scene is unlike the sleezy I \meat market\ atmosphere one often encounters in the United States. In Spain, these places serve as a site for socializing, as well as for get- ting a bite to eat. Since the dinners are usually light and are eaten fairly late (about 9:00 P.M.), people will frequently attend a bar and grab a \tapa\ (all sorts of interesting and delicious hors d'oeuvres). In our quest to assim il:ate· into the Spanish culture, most of the group tried to go out as much as possible and meet the natives. Nevertheless, living with families proved to be our greatest source of contact with ~the Spanish people. The families provided us with very comfortable and pleasant en- vironment!l, in addition to allowing us to observe Spanish life first-hand. Unfortunately, many students were not able to live in such an ideal situation because of a lack of enough families _. (or so we were told). Many members of the group lived in boarding house type set-ups whose facilities sometimes left much to be desired, unless taking cold showers or having two inches of water cover your bedroom floor every morning gets you excited. --_....._AREA CALENDAR-- Even though the living con- ditions varied for the members ofthe group, all of us were able to observe and take part in the Spanish community. However, there were certain aspects of this culture that really rubbed me (no pun intended) the wrong way. Although I had-previously spent five weeks in Spain four summers ago, I was shocked at the disrespectful, (to put it mildly), manner in which Spanish men treat women. Never in my life had I ever experienced anything as humiliating and disgusting as I did walking through the streets of Seville. The persistent crude and vulgar ·remarks that eminated · from the mouths of these men, some even old enough to be my grandfather, made my daily life most un- pleasant. Some Americans might feel that such behavior would be considered. flattering to the receiver of these \compliments.\ However, nothing is further from the truth, since this type of ill- mannered tr~atment is both degrading and offensive to most women. ARTS April 12--Hudson-Mohawk Industrial Gateway announces the opening on the 1980 Urban Cultural Park Tour Program. The tour begins at the Burden Iron Company Office Building at 1 p.m. For more information, call 27 4-5267. · April 17-19, 24-26-The RPI players ·will present· Stephen Sondheim's mvsical COM- PANY as the capstone of their 50th anniversary season. Performances will be held at the 15th Street Lounge on the RPI campus. For more in- formation, call 270..6503. DANCE April 18-i9--The Dance Council of the University at Albany will present the Don · Redlich Dance Company as their final residency of the 1979- 80 season. Performances will take place at 7 p.m. on the Main Stage of the University Per- forming Arts Center. For further information, call 457- · 3906 or 457~8. FILM April 18-19·-A love affair collapses under class and in- tellectual pressures in the Swiss film, The Lacemaker, directed by ClaudeGoretta. The film will be presented at SUNY Albany's Performing Arts Center at 8:30 p.m. For further information, call 457-8608 or 457-7709. LECTURE April 12-T~e Upper Hudson Program will present a lecture entitled GOVERNMENTAL RESPONSES TO 20th CEN- TURY URBAN AND . IN- DUSTRIAL CHANGE. The lecture will be hosted by .the Honorable Erastus Corning, 2nd, Mayor of the City of Albany and will be held in the Auditorium of the New York State Museum at 2 p.m. April 13-At 7 p.m. J. Smith, who recently retired as chief executive officer and chairman of the board of International Paper, will speak of \Ethi~s in the Marketplace\ at the First United Methodist Church, 603 State St. Questions? Call 399- 8271. April t5-Harry M. Ro~en-. field, editor . of Capitol Newspaper,. will review THE ;MAN WHO KEPT NEWSPAPER: . RICHARD HELMS AND THE CIA at 12: 15 p.m. in Albany Public Library, 161 Washington Ave. For more information, call 4.49-3380. April 19-The Upper Hudson Program will present a lecture ~ntitled AREA GAINS AND LOSSES IN THE PAST WORLD WAR II PERIOD. It will be presented by S. Thyagarajan, Executive Director, Capitol District Regional Planning Commission. For more in- formation, call 474-5842. MUSIC April 13-0n Sunday, April 13th, the Albany Peace Coalition will present ''A Festival of Peace.'' The concert will take place in Page Hall of SUNY Albany's Performing Arts Center (downtown) at 1 :30 p.m. For further information, call 457-8606. April 16-Meet the LADIES OF GILBERT AND SULLIVAN in a musical recital at 12: 15 p.m. at the Albany Public Library, 161 Washington Avenue. Musician Ruth Wright will illustrate her talk with piano a)ld voice .. For further informf,ltion, call Fran Lewis at 449;-3380 (mornings) or 869-9317 (home). April 18-0n Friday April 18th, the New York Philomusica will present a concert at SUNY Albany's Performing Arts Center Page Hall (downtown). The concert will begin at 8:30 p.m. For further information, c;all 451:-8606. THEATRE April 11-14--The Skidmore Department of Theatre in cooperation with the Skidmore Art Department presents Pablo Picasso!-s The Four Little Girls. The performances will begin at 8 p.m. For further information, call 584-5000, ext. 370. April 15-19--Endgame, a bizarre tragi-comedy which questions the meaning and values of man's existence will be presented in the Lab Theatre of SUNY Albany's Performing Arts Center at 8:30 p.m. For. further information, call 457- 7581. . April 18-The Niskayuna High School A.F .S. will present the Albany Street Academy Players •in ''Black Through the Years.'' The ,performance will take place at 8 p.m. at the Niskayuna High School. Even though I loved talking - · with my family, visiting new places, and observing a dif· ferent culture, I found it ex- tremely difficult' to get ac- customed to being treated as a sex object. As I look back on my \term a bread,\ I know I will never forget the twelve weeks I spent in Europe. But, I cannot honestly say that each day in itself represented an amazing experience. I lived within a. society of people whose values and customs were at times foreign to me· and as a result, I was forced to broaden ~Y own thoughts and feelings to manY aspects of life. Suitf At The Thi: .Suitcase f Friday ni Union Col The party . and end at ticket is holding t mediately Airport to three day· paid drea Nassau. Because we regret couples) attend the now on Activities Marra. I fare the t This pric 1. The· accomod; meals, g1 money. 2. LiVE Change.' the Roc 'concert and Gem 3. Fre• 'bottles c given a prizes. mixed d1 4. Th• treated t restaur a 5. Tw couple 1 first. All Cl Suitcase packed because that y01 will be fMay 3- stubs wi box and elimim through pagne v sixth cc So if enjoyat evening your w ning c Student ticket a on sab only th1 you h< TomSl at 382- exciter runninJ there, P.S. wearir muda The invite in th• petiti subm APRl TH a war depa essa3 Th• from pape speci No spec: lowe uppe TF for : men

1as res. ·ith our ~ith rhe ery en- to 1ish mts 1 an ack we > of ling ose · uch ~old s of loor ted. con- )ers able the ver, > of 1bed ·ong usly four d at t it 1ich 1en. ~ver as as I eets :ude that s of old her, un- :ans 1vior 'ring 1ese ver, the ill- both .nost king - new dif- ex- ac- as a 1my will eks I 1nnot IY in 1zing in a. 1lues imes lllt, I own iU\nY OONOORDIENSIS, ApriZ 10, -1980 ro.un am u · Suitcase Party At tirling , The Third Annual Delta Phi .Suitcase Party will be held on Friday night, May· 2, at the Union College Girling Center. The party will begin at 11 P.M. . and end at 4 A.M. when the last- ticket is drawn, The couple holding that ticket will . im- mediately be whisked to Albany Airport to fly down and enjoy a three day-two night all expense paid dream vacation in sunny Nassau. Because of existing fire codes we regret only 400 persons (200 couples) will be .permitted to attend theTADPSP. Tickets are now on sale at tbe Student Activities office through Mrs. Marra. Due to increased air fare the tickets cost $12•couple. This price inchtdes: 1. The flight to Nassau, hotel composition. THE YUDIS PRIZE: for the .student in any class who has · producedthe best piece of prose fiction. ·Each prize entry should be · labeled with a pseudonym on both the paper and an attached sealed envelope; inside the envelope should be the student's real name and address. Ail of this should be placed in a large manila envelope marked with the name of the competition for which it is being submitted. ~The envelope should be delivered to the Department office in Humanities 212, no later than Monday, Apri128. Any questions . about these competitions should be directed to Professor Wineapple in the Humanities . Building (telephone 6210). -:Women.,s Week Approaches accomodations {2 rooms), all \A tO Year Union of Women meals, gratuities, and expense and Men.\ Women's Week- money. April 13-AprU 19, 1980. Spon- 2. Live band, called Small sored by the w-omen's Network. Change. They have appeared in Sunday, April 13.- the RGchester area and in 1.. Reception-Strauss, 1 p.m. 'concert with Fleetwood Mac --Special guests will be and George Benson. , women alumni from Union's 3. Free beer. In addition, 36 first co-ed class 'bottles of champagne will he --Slide-Sound presentation by given away as consolation students on \Women at Union prizes. A donation bar with Today\ mixed drinks will be available. -Homemade refreshmentl] 4. The runners-up will be will be served treated to a dinner afa top area Monday, April 14- restaurant. · 1. \International\ Intellec- 5. Two supertacos for the / tual Cabaret--Cabaret, 7:30 couple whose ticket is drawn , p.m. first. -A group of Union's foreign All couples attending the students will informally discuss Suitcase Party should bring a therole-status ofwomeni:h their packed suitcase with them own countries, as well as their because it is entirely possible own perceptions of America!! that you and your companion women will be spending the weekend --Wine-n-Cheese will 'be IMay 3-5) in Nassau. All ticket served. • stubs will be placed in a sealed -ISA will sponsor a cocktail box and tickets will be publicly party .following· Cabaret eliminated at intervals 2. Movie-\A Doll's House\ by throughout ,the party. Cham- Ibsen-SS016, 10 p.m. pagne will be awarded to every -Admission 75 Cf:lnts sixth couple eliminated. -Starring Jane Fonda So if you're looking for an --Complimentary Pretzels enjoyabl'e way to spend an and Chips · evening and want to be winging your way to N~ssau the mor- ning after, hustle over to Student Activities and pick up a ticket at $12-couple. Tickets are on sale to the general public only through Friday, April25. If you have any questions call Tom Sheahan or Phil Bocchetto at 382-9159. Just imagine the, excitement of being in the running down to the wire. Be there, Aloha, The Brothers of Delta Phi P.S. Drink of your choice if wearing island attire or ~er- muda shorts. \ Competition Entries Sought . The Department of English mvites the submission of entries in the following writing com- petitions. 'l;he deadline for submission is MONDAY, APRIL 28. Tuesday, April15- 1. Career Panel~trauss, 7 p.m. -Area professional women will discuss careers and alternative lifestyles for women. Focus will be on the participants' own experiences in this area. -Refreshments served. -2. Women's Nite at the Pub-- 9: 30-closing --D.J. program featuring . female artists --Specials Oil drinks gro_ce~ies 374-7413 Superior Quality throughout the evening. Wednesd~y, April 16- 1. Women's Luncheon-- Banquet Room (Carnegie) 12:30 p.m. --For all Union women-- Faculty, Staff and Students -Women may bring their lunch or bu~ it at the Pub; Coffee, tea, and dessert will be , provid,ed. 2. Career Workshop for Women-Strauss, 3:30-5 p.m. -Ms .. Phyllis O'Flaherty will conduct a workshop on career planning for women. Focus will be on the integration of each individual's ideals, values, goals, and lifestyle. Value clarification exercises and discussion will be included. -Dinner in the Pub with Ms. O'Flaherty will follow the workshop · for those in- terested. Thursday, April 17- 1. ''Music by Women'' ... - Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m. -Ms. Julie Kabat and Ms. Carole Friedman wilf present an entertaining and informative lecture-recital on music by women composers. The lecture examines how social attitudes have affected women com- posers' .self-concepts, musical education, and access to patronage and audiences. The recital features music for voice, piano, harpsichord, and glass ·harmonium, from Medieval times to the present day. Free admission. 2. Watch for Special Women's Section in Concordy-articles, e~says, poetry, etc., by and-or about women. Friday, April 18- 1. Women's Network weekly lunch and discussion in the Women's Room, 2nd floor Carnegie, 12:30 p.m. -Topic for discussion: \Role and Status of Women on Campus Today'' -All are invited to attend. 2. Lecture-\Moral Realism\ by Professor Philippa Foot, 3: 30 p.m., Humanities 213. Spon- sored by Union Philosophy Dept. All are invited to attend the presentation and the in- formal discussion with refresh- ments in the Humanities Lounge afterwards. 3. Women's Cabaret-Cabaret Room, 9 & ll_p.m. shows. 4. Volleyball Tournament-4-6 Alumni Gym; Beer Chug-6-7 Skellar. Prizes Awarded. Saturday, April 19- 1. Women's Lacrosse Game- Nott Field, 1 p.m. Union vs. Hattwick. 2. Women's Week Finale- Jackson's Gardens,· 24 p.m.- Refreshments, frisbee, music, etc. (In case of inclement weather, the finale will~be on -· \Rugby Grocerv) ~ 1466 t J Rugby Rd. l (. . ·) - - 613 Union St. .Schenectady, NY THE ALLEN ESSAY PRIZE: awarded to seniors in any department ·for non-fiction essays. The writing may be a chapter from a thesis, a revised term Paper, an essay written specifically for submission, etc. No limits. of length are specified, but custom suggests a lower limit of 6..0 pages, and an upper limit of perhaps 30. Beyer Furs 123 ~ 5 THE VAN ORDEN PRIZE: for freshmen (in. any depart- ment) e~celling in English Goldy Oldy and Estate Specials Maybe in YOUR price range For that Special gift the 2nd floor of Carnegie ... no frisbee ... ) Other: - T ..Shirts will be on sale all week in Carnegie. \A 10 Year Union of Women and Men., $3.50 for white and $4.00 for maroon and purple t-shirts. --The Network will also sponsor a book sale throughout the week in Carnegie. Terms Abroad Seeks Students Union Terms Abroad is ac- cepting applications for its three 1981 winter terms until May 1. Terms will take· place in Bogota, Colombiar Athens, Greece, and in Israel. The term in Colombia wiU stress developmental problems, but some sknowledge of Spanish will be necessary in order for a student to participate. The term in Israel takes place on one of two kibbutzim, and stresses Hebrew lang'Uage learning as well as a study of Israeli culture. In Athens, students will study past and present cultures of Greece. Knowledge of Greek is not ne.cessary. The cost of. a term abroad is similar to the cost of a term spent on campus, and aU scholarships apply to the . program. Applications and further information may be obtained from the Terms Abroad office in Humanities 211. Carry Trash, ~ake Money Newspapers once again are being bought by Predel Waste Material, 201 Edison Avenue, · Schenectady. Schaffer Library needs to dispose of 250 pounds of newspapers per month. Any organization in need of extra cash may haul away and sell Schaffer Library;s newspapers every month. Contact Joanne Marhafer at extension 6294 to make arrangements. Be In Scotland In The Fall . Union.College sophomores with a B or better grade point average are encouraged to apply for selection as the Union · · College \St. Andr~ws Exchange Student\ for ·the 1980-81 academic year. The selected student will spend his .. her junior year abroad at the University of St. Anch·ews, Scotland's oldest university. Applicants are to submit a 2-4 page essay (typed) evaluating their own education at Union (goals, successes, failures and so forth) .-. with some attention ;paid to ways in which a yeat: at St. Andrews might serve them. Students are • also asked to submitpne letter . of recommendatio'fi, from a faculty member who knows their work well. Applications must be received by Friday, April 25, 1980. A selection committee of faculty members and former exchange students will screen the applications, and Will interview finalists during the week of May 5th. Submit applications to Professor Marten, Department of English, Humanities 216 D. Please see Professor Marten with any questions you might have. St.Andrews is located on the Fif.e coast, forty-five miles north of Edinburgh and thirteen miles /south of Dundee. Trus university city, while it is easily accessible by publiC. transport, and has excellent road cem- munications with larger cen- tres, still retains much of its rural and historic flavor . The town of St. Andrews dates back to the sixth century when it contained a stronghold of the Pictish Kings and an influential monastery of the Celtic chur.ch. In the eighth century, it became the center of the national cult of St. Andrew. By 1477 the bishopric was raised to the dignity of an archbishopric so · that St. Andrews actually became the ecclesiastical capit~l of Scotland. - The University was created in the fourteenth and fiteenth century. In 1413 the University was officially recognized by Pope Benedict XIII. At the time of its creation, the University was merely a society of scholars concerned with studies in the three faculties .of Art, Divinity, and Canon Law. At the end of the Middle Ages, the University was organized into three major colleges - St. Salvator's (1450), St. Leonard's (1812) and St. Mary's (1537). By this time St. Andrews was the principal centre of higher learning ill Scotland. Enjoy a relaxing dinner at The Pub every Fri. & Sat. nite, 5:00- 7:30 The Dut.ch Hollow Pub will be offering the follo~ing Special Dinner: A variety of Entrees including-· Steaks, Seafood, B·urgers & Hot Sandwiches plus a pitcher of Beer or Soda or a carafe· of Wine per pe~on · Also, the Fabulous Salad & Bread Bar - All Included in the price of the Entree So come and. Enjoy the Fine SeiVice/

... Page 10 FOR SALE Car for sale: 1977 Chevy Caprice. Blue, 2-door, excellent cond.,. air & stereo-c.b., vinyl roof, power steering & brakes. 346-0952. For sale: 1 Laser Sailboat. Mint condition. Call Tom at 370- 6523. PtACEMENT Job Search Workshop-April 22, Tuesday, 4:00p.m., Strauss Lounge. The Office of Placement and Career Resources offers a Job Search Workshop for anyone seeking a summer or permanent em- ployment. Learn the job search strategies from the recent Union graduates who have dpne their own job search and are successfully_ employed. Fireman's Fund Insurance Co., White Plains, NY has a recruiting date on Wednesday, April 23, 1980. They are in- terested in talking with EE's, ME's, and CE's; also Chemistry, Physics or Biology majors, for safety engineers. You may sign up in Placement at any time. Urgent job opportunity for a Resource Organizer at Families Crisis Program, Unity House, Troy, NY. Duties start after graduation, but they must hire immediately. Please contact Placement Office for further information. Summer Work Opportunity Part-time or Full-time This · work- involves acquainting families with very · popular, top-quality educational programs for use in the home. You set your own work schedule, according to . how much you want to earn, and what hours you prefer to work. The work pays very well, and can be continued on a part-time or full-time basis following the summer. if you desire. A brief Dutch Hollow Pub Parents' Weekend Dinner Make Your vations Now! Reser- +Free carafe of wine or ·pitcher of beer with your meal. +Carnation for Mom (Look for menu in next week's paper.) OONOORDIENSIS, April 10, 1980 ,, intensive training program is provided. Requirements: A sincere belief in the idea that. parents n_eed to be actively involved in the learning activities of their pre-school and school-age children. An ability to n1eet and relate to new people. An ability to work independently, with little supervision. Mobility, preferably your own car. Please stop by Placement Office for further information~ Oak-Materials Group, Inc., Subsidiary of Oak Industries, Inc., Hoosick F aHs, N.Y.,. is interested in a BS-ME Junior Project Engineer whose primary job functien will be the establishment · and im- plementation of energy con- . servation programs. Secondary · function will be OSHA Liason and other projects. If you are interested, please stop by Placement. We have some literature. , MTI (Mechanical Techno}Qgy, Inc., Latham,. NY) is r.ecruiting for BS-MS Elec- trical and · Mechanical Engineers for various positions within the company. If you are interested, please stop by and sign up for an interview as we still have empty slots. New York State, D~partment ·. of Transportation, have several vacancies in their Traffic and Safety Division for the position of Tr;:~.nsportation Analyst. The positions, aU of which are located at NYS DOT headquarters here in Albany, involve the areas of highway safety evaluation-analysis, safety operations and accident surveillance. Please check Placement for further in- formation. If there is anyone interested in scheduling an- in.terview, please call 457-6186. New York State, Department of Transportation, will be hiring a number of people as Con- struction Inspectors to carry out various inspection or in- spection-related tasks at cen- struction sites throughout the State. If you are interested, please contact Placement for further information and an . application . Em'erson Electric Co. (Electronics & Space Division) in St. Louis, Missouri, has a number. of openings for in- dividuals with engineering backgrounds. These positions vary from a requirement of minimal years of experience to a- requirement for substantial years in a particular field. We have literature in the office. If you are interested, forward your resume to J.B. Heater, Personnel Resources, Emerson Electric Co., Electronics and Space Division, 8100 W. Florissant, .St. Louis, Missouri 63136 .Mailing Station 2352 or call (314) 553·2352. .Burroughs Corporation,. E-astern Application Development Center, 240 · Radnor·Chester Road, :lladnor, Pa, 19087, has entry level and experienced posUions for Applications Systems Analysts. Forward your resume to Willi~m Nessler III, Personnel Mgr., PPD-Radnor, Burroughs Corp., 240 Radnor-Chester Rd., Radnor, Pennsylvania 190.87. American Foundation -for the Blind, 15 W.16thSt., New York, NY 10011, have. a new contract and are interested in Union students. If you are interested, please bring your resumes to Placement. They are interested in Electrical Engrs., and Computer Science Majors-- Locations of positions in New York City. C.G. Aetna, Hartford, Conn., Math Majors or other majors with Math backgrounds for their Actuarial Training Program. GPA should be 3.0 or better. Contact Placement for further information.- Please let us know i:f you have· received any company offers. and the one you have accepted. Thank you. BULLETIN BOARD Po Y9U play saxaphone? Then. the 'Umon Jazz Ensemble wants . you. If interested, contacit Tom at 37~'-65?.3. German Lunch Table-. Mondays, 12:30 in the Pub. REWARD offered to any · UColl Woman who finds and returns a Delta Chi flag! DU's 3Stb Annual 50's Greaser Party. Sat.,. April 19. 9:00 p.m. tH whenever. Live ' Entertainment. Attention: Washington, . Greeceand Israel Term Abroad · students: 1065l)niversizy Place is available for fall term only. Great rent, location and lan- dlord. Call 374·5489; Contact Andy or ·Gene. Sikorsky or A vco Employees need: two roomr.nates to rent house in Bridgeport, Ct., area for summer. Ron, 274-8291. Anyone interested in con- tributing articles, poetry, art- work, etc. for a special Women's Week spread in next week's Concordiensis, please address material to Pam Ryan, · Box 2158 or leave at the Con- , cord.y office (4th Floor Car- negie), by 10 p.m., Monday, April 14 .. (Please specify \For Women's Week\) How-to impress your date, eatgteat, · . and save a few bucks (all~ one night.) Treat her- or him- to any one of our nationally-famous specialities listed below in our money-.saving coupons. Because, even when the money's a little tight, you deserve-the best. ,~ '.~t-tMmll' .jttt· . ~C4~------ ... -------., ·~-l ~-~ $5 99-~~ lu~ $4.99=., .. 1_ 1:. • for 2! I J!~ for 2! 'w~~T CLI:Mt=~TI~t=§ • SILVI:12,MITti • • • UUUTI()UI:= •• I ~ut® 1814 State St., Schenectady I =ilut® 18l4State St., Schenectady, · ·1 346-3194 346-3194 -- • . . 183 Noff Terr., Schenectady.~ 183 Nott Terr,, Schenectady, • 346-400:5 I' 346-4005 • Dig into 2large sp:ighett! dmners with rtu:at sauce, garlic bread and two salads. Splurge on one small SuperSr.yle·pizza·With your choice of.t:Wo toppings plus tw9 Devera.· genotincluded. Coupo. n gooll for eat-in or t.ake-out. Not valid with. all¥ o. the. r. salads .. · Bevera.ge not included .• Coupon,good foreat-inor take-our. Not val. id wi~th . . coupon or special. Offer expires May 10 1980 . · . any other coupon or special.Offerexpiies MaY' 10 1980, . t Gash redemption value 1120~ t • . _©1980_, PtzzaHu~.· . Cash redemp-tion value 1/20.~ •.. 1 • 1980, Ptzza H. ut, Inc. --- -- --- -~ - .• -- - .. I . 129 Jay St. Schenectady, NY 346-4619 $4 9 9 Sandwkh ~~ 3 2Bee~sforthepriceof1! ~ 4 ~. I · andSa1ad . nl~ I Withthepurchaseofany Dl.....a · 1- . • Dinnerfor2! 1:.~ _ large_pizza. 1':.~ . 1 .1814 State st., ScheneCtady, :flut® ·1 . 1814 s.tate st., Schenectady, :tJut® I 346-3194 346-3194 . · 183 Nott Terr., Schenectady; I . 183 Nott Terr., Schenectady, ·1 346-4005 346-4005 . I Take your pick of 2 of our big, delicious sandwiches and two salads. Bevernge not ~V?henyou buy any l~rge pizza, this.couponis wlid for up to 4 glasses of beer or. I included. Cou.por\ g. oo. d for eat-in.only. Not valid With a. n. y otber co~pbn or. special. ~- pttcherwhcn_ an e,qmvalent amount of.beer Is ~u. rcha.sed. C_oupongood·lor eat-1. n' J Offerexpires N\ay 1 0. 1980 Olsh redempnon value l/20CI: only •. Not Vall~ With any other coupon 0~ specmL Offer vahd Through May 1 0 • _ ' - ©1980, Pizza Hut, Inc. . Cash redemption value l/20CI: ©I9S0 1 Pizza Hut, !~c. · - - ... - --- - _··.- - - - •. - - This \Millet Neil K~ prorni: squad. chin en week t ten go Sienna four it Hartw tory. Afte: I aero:: KannE seasor goals, winne overti Siennc play, 1 goal d his E I(!adh scorin field. On Hartv agair result The s goals. beth€ of thE Ka: Amei leadil A b; Th heav weer Two cern pUll( othe era, arbi The Grel Wh::: ver~ tro'i ulti stri neg· rep1 Mit Aft. ha' soh B GE OWl rna oft N.~ offi 'de~ ( Mi fre str of pl~ fir du ha to ne th re st or lb w be h; OJ ir ·w d Sl v p h

~hen ants rom 1le-- any and 50's I 19. Live ton, ,road 'lace lmly. lan- lltact ~yees rent area con- art- ecial next lease ~yan, Con- Car- 1day, \For CONOORDIENSIS, ApriZ 10) 1980 Page 11 5porte ~ thlete Of The Week ~1'1. .L·.'i: Spo:rts Happenings Aprii10-April17 This edition's winner of the \Miller Athlete of the Week\ is Neil Kanner, attackrnan for the promisfng Union lacrosse squad. , Kanner led the Dut- chmen to two victories last week by scoring an ~stounding ten goals in an upset against Sienna on Thursday, and then four important scores agai~st Hartwick in the weekend VIC- tory. After a slow start an the lacrosse team's journey, Kanner displayed his past season's form by netting ten goals, including the game winner in a sudden death overtime victory against Sienna, After six minutes of play, Union was faced with a six goal deficit. Kanner then began his sparkling performance leading Union's COll1eback scoring from everywhere on the field. On Saturday's game against Hartwick, Kanner shone once again with his fine play resulting in another Gamet win. The senior attacker netteq fm~r goals, including what proved to be the game winner at the start of the fourth quarter. Kanner, a potential All- American, was the Dutchemn's leading scorer last year and th~ nllll'\ber five.,: scorer in Division HI last year. His ten goals against Sienna was . a personal l1igh as well as Union College record. Neil, a pre-med, is a senior · 9rother at Delta Phi fraterr,~ity. He played . his high school lacr.osse at Plainview higp school in Long Island. Currently, he is one of the team's tri-captaios. Miller Athlete ot the Week Neil Kanner Varsity Lacrosse Basebal:l AprH 10 at St. Lawrence April 12vs. Geneseo April 15 at Brockport April 11 at LeMoyne ( 2) · Apri;l l4 vs. Albany April15vs. Williams April T7.atColgate Apr iii 10 vs. Siena Aprill2at Skidmore AprH l6 vs .. Iippa rt Apri117 Hartwick, Ham11ton at Hartwick April12vs. RPI A.pril 11 at RPI April 14 vs. Herkimer A.prH 14 at RPI Aprill5 vs. Siena April17at Albany Women's Lacrosse April) 1 (A& B) vs. Skidmore Aprill2.(A&B) at West Point April17 (A& B) at Russell Sage Men's Tennis Golf Outdoor Track JV lacrosse Softball Pre·views: '· Women's Sports Softball: A new coach opens a new softball season for Union College when the Dutchwomen take the field April 14 at Ren- sselaer Polytechnic Institute. High School and was most recently swimming coach at NiSkayuna High School. A View From The Stands Jane Hopkins has been ap- pointed head coach to replace· Lynn Barta, who continues as head women's basketball and volleyball coach at Union. The Garnet softballers had a 5-8 record last year but have a nucleus of veterans from that team returning, headed by Lynn LeBlanc of South Dennis, Mass. . The pitching corps has been bolstered by sophomore transfer Kirsten Peterson, a lefthander _ by DOUG SILVERSTEIN The--' scene is like a heavyweight boxing title bet- ween the two top contenders. Two men, behind them con- cerned cohorts, throw their best punches aimed at defeat of t}le \ other. But as was true in the Ali era, the final decision will be arbitrary and controversial. The two opponents are Ray Grebey and Marvin M111er. What we have here is·-the 1980 version of a baseball con- troversy, one that may ultimately lead towards a strike. Grebey, an ex-chief negotiator for General Electric, represents the owners, while Miller represents the players. After weeks of talks, the two have emerged with few solutions and many headaches. Ray Gr~bey was a worker' for GE when two years ago the owners recruited bim as the man wlio could alter the future of baseball. As was stated in the N.Y. Times, \baseball's front offices are looking to him to '(leal toughly with Mr. Miller\. On the other side is Marvin Miller, the main reason why free agency, arbitration and strikes-have become mainstays of basebalL Representing the player's union, be has shown a firm stand this year, as he did during 1972. Probably the biggest problem has been getting the two sides together to commence negotiations. Marvin Miller, in the Schenectady Gazzete, referred to the owners by stating that \they won't move on anything and they still won't listen to the- player's side\. ' What has existed is surface bargaining· and a -deficiency in hard line negotiations. When one revi~ws the situation; the impression received is that · wblle the players union is dealing )Vith issues, the owners seemingly are only interested in victory. The owners seem to be provoking a strike, which really has no le_gitimate advantages . I for them. So while a solution seems to be far away, the owners don't seem to want one. The players themselves have been vocal in their view, on the issue of negotiatiop.s. Reggie Jackson, in the New York Times, said that his \personal feeling is we shouldn't wait, I kind of learned as a child once yol:l start something, you should go through with it''. American League player representative Mike Marshall, feels that the players should not wait to strike and should take immediate action. An announcement on Aprill revealed that the pl~yers would start the season as scheduled but if their demands are not met by Memorial Day We-ekend, they would strike. The strike entails four major issues. The first issue concerns compensation for the signing of free agents. As is now, an 'amateur draft choice is the compensation offered. The owners 'propose that the team that bas signed the free agent be . able to protect fifteen players, leavit:tg the others available for choice by the team that lost the free agent. The players feel, according to the N.Y. Times, that \any kind of compensation involving professional players would impair the bargaining rights and mobility of a free agent.'' Ray Grebey· says the compensation will have no effect on , the pht.yers' bargaining power. The _ o'Wners include the provision tl;lat the free agent must be chosen by eight or more teams in the annual re-entry draft to merit compensation. The second-issue is r~lated to the first. Simply, the owners claim that the .players should be allowed to declare their free agency after· six years. of m~jor league commitment, 'the current situation. The players propose that the availability should be after four years because including minor league service, a player cannot. determine his own future until ten or eleven years of professional baseball. The third issue concerns baseball arbitratiom. Arbitration has become a popular issue during the last few years. With this privilege, players are allowed to appear before an impartial arbitrator with an owner and bargain for the next year's salary. Under the present agreement, factors considered in the decision in- clude the player's past per- formance, his length and consistency in baseball, and his past. salary, including it's comparison to that of other players. The owners propose that the only mode of con- sideration be the player's yeats of service. Obviously, the players feel that the system should stay as it presently exists. Next week, I will present my opinion on each of the issues' and a conclusion concerning a threatened strike. Coach Hopkins, a native of Lynnfield, Mass., was graduated from the University of Massachusetts in 1976 with a major in physical education. She coached softball at Swanscott, Mass., High School, swimming at Peabody, Mass., Lacrosse: Union College's women's lacrosse team opens its 1980 season at home Friday against Skidmore. Coach Marty Morrison's team then travels the next day for a first-ever game against West Point. The Dutchwomen had a 1-7-1 record last season, but actually closed on a hopeful note, gaining their lone victory and a tie in their final two games. Coach Morrison is relying heavily on_ last year's high The sched11le: April14 at RPI, 15 Siena, 17 at Albany St., 22 at Ulster, 24 RPI, 26St. Rose, 29 at Oneonta. May 1 at Colgate, 2 Russell Sage, 7 Albany St., 9 New Paltz. scorer, Sheryl K'atz of Baltimore, to pace this year's · offense. , The defensive corps will be led by reliable Buthaina Shukri of Newton Center, Mass., while a sophomore transfer, 5-10 Johanna Briggs of Winstead, Conn., will start at goal. The schedule: April 11 Skidmore, 12 at West Point, 17 at Russell Sage, 19 Hartwick, 24 . at Oneoilta, 25 Middlebury, 28 at Hamilton, 29 Castleton. May 1 at Colgate, 3 Russell Sage, 5 at Williams. It's time for the (Schenectady to Saratoga) BEER RALLY Chi Psi presents Its 8th\ Annual. Beer Rally Wednesday, April 23rd For rules and entry forms, see Ddve Wilber or Brian Walck at Chi Psi Lodge {382-9029)

Page 12 .OO'NC!Olf,J)I}!JNISI~. 1 April 10\ 1980. Lax Hot;- Win.A Pair The Union College Varsity Lacrosse squad recently engaged in the first four games of a sixteen game schedule, a schedule that promises to be filled with aggressive play and closely contested battles. The Dutchmen enter the 80's with 13 returning veterans and 10 rookies all intent on improving last years 5-9 record. Defensive depth and outstanding offensive attackmen should be the strengths of the team. The record is currently at 2-2-, with losses coming at the hands of St. Mary's College and William and Mary on the recently completed southern trip. Union defeated both Siena and Hartwick in games last week by scores of 17-16 and 11-8, respectively. Among the highlights of the young season is the overtime victory over Siena, which was aspiring for its second straight undefeated season. The crucial overtime goal in that game was Captain Neil Kannars' tenth tally of the game, a Union College Lacrosse record. Union College Lacrosse began the season over spring break, when half of this college student body were sunning themselves on the shores of various tropical beaches. Union lost to ranked Division II team St. Mary's by a 13-7 score. It was Union's first outdoor appearance, a con- sequence of bad weather and inadequate facilities here at Union, Neil Kanner and fresh- man Steve Myers scored two goals each for Union and the young defense showed promise by successfully executing eleven of twelve clears. Division II William and Mary of Williamsburg, Va. provided the Dutchmen with a second game of needed seasoning and ex- perimenting. A better W&M squad won 16-4. Goalies John Mercer and Ted Kelley shared time warding off shots. As good as these new goalies are, Union Lacrosse will certainly miss the services of graduated Alan Greenberg, a 3-yr. starter and ~iery le~der on the field. Ailments to veterans Rich Romer and Torn Tallbott as well as transfer Sean Duram (welcome) squelched the plans of Coach Fran Meagher in that regular lines could not be organized in those first two games. But, according to the coach, \Overall it was a very good trip. The men got better game experience than last year.\ Looking to improve on the 0-2 record, Union College Lacrosse visited Siena, who last year had beaten Union on their way to an undefeated season. For Union, the 17-16 victory was sweet, having totally humiliated and heartbroken the Indians. Siena opened up an early 5-0 lead before Neil Kanner scored his first goal of the day, unassisted at 7:27 of the first period. The score stood at 6-1 after one period. In the second period Kanner supplied the reaper as he harvested six goals from his abundant crop. The effort showcased his All•American potential and could be no fluke since Neil as the nations' fifth leading goal scorer last year in Div. III. Neil'S six goals were supplemented by tallies of Jim Wright and Captain. Rob Sherman as the second period freshman Steve Myers. The ended in a 9-9 tie. third line has three good athletes who play good defense, The second half began much namely Paul Knapp, Dana like the first, with Siena scoring Johnston, and Steve Near-Lob. five unanswered goals in seven Key backup em the squad are minutes. At this point, Coach Dave Trager and Sonny Bono. Meagher inserted John Mercer Goal tending will be .. iffy with in goal, and the sophomore Ted Kelly· and John Mercer rookie responded with several splitting the du!ies for now. key saves as Union battled back ~ Both need expert~nce to sho:-v to pull within two goals out 16~14 what they can ~o m goal; their after three periods. success or fatlure may well determine the teams' fate this year. ~ Uniontravles to St. Lawrence University ~his Thursd~y to > take on the fifth ranked D1V. III ~ power and tben it's back here ~ Saturday for a game against 8 SUNY Genesco at 2 p.m. on ft Ga~i~ Field, w~a~her and school {!. officials permtttmg. Be there. Aloha. Preview: ··.;~ .. Senior Bob Sherman The defensive corp held tough for Union in the fourth period, shutting off the Siena offense and giving Union attackers valuabletime to score the tying goal by Rich Romer at 9:43 of the fourth. Regulation play ended in a 16·16 tie and in the overtime period it was Neil Kanner who garnered the winning goal at 1:53. For Neil it was a school record breaking tenth goal in one game and restored some w·aning con- fidence in his own scoring punch. Track· Hosts RPI · This past Saturday Union opened its home season with a victory over Hartwick College by a score of 11-8. The sloppily, played contest was held in the horrid quagmire known as Alexander Field. Before an average rainfall the night before the game, school of- ficials decided not to endanger the playing surface of renovated Garis Field, only to embarrass themselves by allowing the football field to be -further destroyed: Defenseman Bill Wall of Union ... opened up the scoring with a field length rush at 14: 07 of the first period. Unibn would not relinquish this lead for the whole game. Subsequent unassisted goals by Romer and Kanner propelled Union to a 3-2 lead. At 1:14 of the first, senior Paul Knapp did a super job of placing a cross-crease pass right into the meshing of Neil Kanners' scoring wand, who . quick-sticked the ball home for a 4-2 lead after one period. Rob Sherman scored the only Union goal of the second period and Union held a 5-4 lead at the half. In the third, unassisted tallies by Sherman and Romer, along with a Sean Duram to Brian Walck hookup, increased Union's lead to 8-4. In the fourth period Hartwick threatened a comeback victory as they scored four early goals but last minute scores by Duram and Myers padded the margin of victory for an 11-8 win. Coach Fran Meagher feels that the 1980 lacrosse squad will be highlighted by strong depth . on attack and an aggressive defensive unit. ·Leading the way around the goalmopth will be All-American candidate Neil Kanner, along with veterans Jim Wright and Brian Walck and newcomers Sean Duram and Larry Salberg. Defen- sively, veterans Brian Sullivan, Barney Miller, Charlie Frene, Tom Tallbott, and Bob Gaylord will provide goalie protection with and from Part Hearty Marty Farty Sands and sophomore Bill Wall. In the crucial midfield position, Coach Meagher will be running three solid lines, the first consisting of skilled stickrnen Rob Sherman, Rob Fishmen, and . freshman Dave Schwrnamm. The second line is the strongest offensively and is composed of football standout Rich Romer, Mark (Nice Boxe~:s) Sackerson. and As the track team opens its season this Saturday against RPI, coach Chuck James is faced with .the gnawing un- certainty of whether an abundance of talent in the distance events and the pole vault will be sufficient to compensate for a lack of in- dividuals in other events. Probably the best individual athlete on the team is pole vaulter Jim Zalucki. Indoors, Zalucki established himself as one of the premier vaulters in the state with a second place finish in the state cham- pionships. Zalucki's best jump of 14' 1\ was within one inch of the Union school record and within six inches of the qualifying height for the national championships. Supporting Zalucki in the vault are a trio of talented freshmen, Roger Adler, Tom Natido and Davey Wallace, all of whom cleared at least twelve feet indoors. ~ As in the pole vault, Union al- so has considerable talent in the distance events. In Ed Arnheiter, John Casale, Jacl~ Connor and Adam Licht; coach .lames has four runners capable of winning . any event ranging from the mile up to the six mile. Based upon his fifth place finish in the state mile indoors, Licht appears to have the best chance of the four of winning a state title outdoors. Adding to the wealth of distance running talent is the possibility that Dennis Contois, a 1:57 half. miler indoors may move up to the mile this spring. Team- mates Mark Arienti and .Joe Londa could also score points in the 5,0()0 meter and steeplechase. Countet·balancing the large turnout of distance runners is a lack of runners in the sprints, hurdles, and middle distance events. Star sprinter Ed Dingman has suffered a slight hamstring pull and is unlikely to .compete in Saturday's meet. This leaves sophomore Darrell Logan as the only experienced runner to compete for Union in the 100 and 200 meter dashes. Compounding the trouble. is the fact that team captain Matt Guilfoyle suffered two ham- string pulls during the indoor season and may not participate in outdoor track. If Guil£oyle is unable to compet~. the brunt .of the ~urden .of the 4QO meter event will fall on freshman John Stimmel, a 52 second quarter miler indoors~ The 800 meter event appears to be one of Union's strongest, with Dave Dellehunt, Dennis Contois and Pete Vielkind, all recording sub-2:00 half miles indoors. Dellehunt may also compete in the quarter mile. With Tom Stegman and Marc Nazon deciding not to par- ticipate, Union Will be especially weak ill the hurdle - events. Freshman Gerry Wells appeared to be the top per- former in both the 120 and 400 meter events, but he will he unable to participate in the first two meets due to a broken hand. Prospects appear somewhat brighter in the field events. In addition to the pole vault, Union also has several quality per- formers in other field events. Seniors Dan Frantz and Dave Cozzens could be contenders for state medals in the javelin. Cozzen is also the team's best high jumper with an indoor best of 6' 5\. Henry Wright could also be a factor in the state meet in the long and triple jumps. Union also appears solid in the weight events, with the Pavacic brothers, John and Bob, likely to · score in the shotput. Brad Kline appears to be the garnet's top performer in the hammer throw and could also compete in the decathalon. The Union-RPI dual meet gets · underway at noon this Saturday at the Schenectady Community College track. Ruggers Dump Wesleyan 9 .. 6 byANDYCAPP In a game domlnated by fierce physical contact Union out-muscled Wesleyan in the first game of the season. This was an early t~st against an always tough Wesleyan team and is a sure sign of a winning season for the Union Ruggers. The game was held at the polo field of the Taylor Estate in Middletown, Conn. This majestic setting, overlooking the Conn. River, was a perfect site for this sport of gentlemen. From the opening kickoff Union was held deep in their own zone. Tough defensive play helped stop Wesleyan as Union tried to shake off the three hour car ride. Heads up play and a few breaks put Union within range. A 17 yard dash by fresh- man Brad Nicholson broke the ice and Union was ahead 4-o. · Danny M.ay connected for the kick after and the score in- creased to 6-o. Wesleyan came back hard and with under 2 minutes left in the first half they rallied to tie the sc1>re at 6-6. The se.cond half saw two teams that were determined not to lose. The second half was scoreless for more than 20 minutes until a Wesleyan penalty gave Union ·a penaltY kick within the\ 50. This im· portant play proved no challenge for the consistent foot of Danny May. The ball split tbe uprights and Union regained tbe lead 9-6. The final minutes proved f,rustrating to Wesleyan as Union's defense did not budge. The final score, Union 9, Wesleyan 6. The B Team had a less for· tunate day losing to a more experienced Wesleyan B team 10..(). After the games, both teams went to the Chi Psi Chapter at Wesleyan for the post-game party. Singing and beer- chugging were the major features. With this victorY under their belts; the Union Rugby team will be looking forward to their next game, as well as an excellent season. Albany Medical School will host Union this Saturday. All are invited to come. by ELl The Con Education· Associatior Schools ser early Feb edllcationa College. n that Union interesting • in itsstruc personalit] . list of a< 'even hig achievemE team look areas whi< . the Colle! mission educatior dergradti campus maintena1 commenti areas, th attention are listed documet Characte1 Higher E The tea the fact t: has not 1 feels that very val1 theColle1 term de\ll contains each of 1 Study p admissio describE leadersh: the goal College, awarene 1980's. 'l College'! the ser educati1 regardec standarc these pt team ' faculty'! diminisl books,' superflu attract College. concern toward~ damagE acadern In it~ progra dergrac the ind good, b whole organi2 entire Contirn Gradm noted these seemec territoJ mix o found· the 1 Fo c~ w -~~=

- • . In lion )er- nts. ave for ~lin. )est best )Uld 1eet ~s. l in the and the ·s to ~r in ould tlon. neet this tady two ~dnot was n 20 eyan ~nalty ; im· no t foot lit tbe ~d the nutes ley an l not .ion 9, s for· more team :earns ter at .game beer· najor ctory Union to king r1e, as ~ason. U host ll are ' ) I ,. \ AprH :17, 1980 Volume 109, No. 19 • Middle States Committee: Evaluation Released by ELLEN van DYKE The Commission on Higher Education of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools sent a team to Union in early February to , make an educational evaluation of the College. Overall, the team felt that Union \is an exceptionally . interesting institution, complex in its structure and institutional personality, with an impressive · list of accomplishments and 'even higher potential for achievementin the future.\ The team looked into the following areas which are also included in the College-'s-Self..:Study: ad- missions, eurricululll, education beyond the un- dergraduate level, athletics, campus life, . governance, maintenance, and energy. After commenting briefly on these areas, the team directed its attention to the criteria which • are listed in the Middle States; document, \Fundamental Characteristics of Excellence in . Higher Education.\ The team was concerned over the fact that Union's Self-Study has not beert completed, as it feels that such a study can be a prog.tam to be. at an acceptable level but was unclear on how tbe program fits in. with the overall mission of the College. As far liS the graduate program is con~ cerned, theteam concluded that it \'as not a program as such but rather a series · of course of- ferings .. It was felt that Union should consider very carefully whether or not such courses should continue to be offerred, especially at the doctoral level. The team also commented briefly on the In~titute for Administration and Management, seeing it as an institutional problem due to its status as a separate . self- containedprogram. lAM did not appear to have .a readily identifiable place in the College's overall mission, but the team had no solutions to offer concerning the problem. The team chose to be deferential concerning athletics at Union because of the recent difficulties experjenced in this area. They felt, however, that stability was being restored and that the Task Force report was a worthy statement of the purposes guiding the .athletic programs· at Union. Some members of the team felt that the Task Force laid too much emphasis on superficial reasons for athletics at Union. They felt such reasons as publicity, alumni relations; visibility for admissions, and fun<:t-raising for having athletic pr-ograllls shouti:l not Jile the most prominent reasons. However, the team was unanimous in its view that \Union must continue 1/) 0 .:.:· finer distinction of the .program m of athletiCs and recreation for ~ women commensurate with 0 ,D., that provided for men.\ As far lt1 as campus life in general is t; concerned, the teaiU received E the impression that the faculty ~ genuinely care about their students and that the students .E feel a close identification with the faculty and the institution as a whole. After reviewing the Task . Force report on Governance, !Ve team empha~ized. that Union \requires a readily responsive and well understood system of internal governance''· to ensure stability· in the near future. It therefore hopes that Union will come to an early· conclusion of this issue. In regards to the physical campus, the team was pleased with its appearance viewing it as an \impressively attractive campus.\ It felt that the College was off to a good start in its concern with improving the maintenance of the campus and advised it to pay close attention \to the regular financing of systematic maintenance to assure not only a pleasing . aspedbu{facilities for teaching · and learning of a quality standard to be expected in a college of Union's status.\ The team also felt that Union was making commendable efforts in the area of energy conservation and maintenance. Assistant Dean of Admissions, Joanna King ·Following the comments on Union's·Self.Survey, the report moves on to discuss items on the list of criteria for excellence Admissions Up by EDWARD ALBRO \ Director of Admissions Kenneth Nourse this. week released information on the results of the admissions process for this year. A record number of applications, 3360, were received this year. That number represents an increase of 360, or 12 percent, over last year's results. In addition, Mv Nourse expects to see an in~ crease in the matriculation rate among accepted students, due to lhe heightened interest in the College exhibited by a rise in applicants participating in on- campus interviews. that by ::leptember of next year, the freshman class will number 520. Asked to characterize the incoming class, Mr. Nourse said, \Those 1300 are a very good group of students. They are all active in their schools and I expect it will be a very active group.\ He projected that once again 80 percent of the incoming class will probably graduate in the top fifth of their high school class. In addition, Mr. Nourse projected that students will be coming from increasingly more affluent backgrounds, simply because of the lack of financial aid available at the College. · very valuable resource to aid the College in planning its long- term development. The report contains a brief comment on each of the areas of the Self; Study previously listed. The admissions program at Union is described as having able leadership, being ''sen('!itive to the goals and desires of the College,\ and expressing awareness of the issues of the 1980's. The Self-Study of the College's curriculum expressed the seriousness with which educational programs are regarded at Union and the high standards which are imposed on these programs. However, the team was critical of the faculty's inclination to \keep diminishing programs 'on to books,' '' ;:J.nd to offer certain superfluous courses simply . to · attract more students to the College. The team expr.esses a concern that-such an attitude towards the curriculum could damage \Union's rep.utation for academic integrity.\ - to bend its efforts to achieve a Continued on pag_e 12 This increase was com- mensurate with an unexpected national trend this year. Amid~t a decrease in the number of . college applicants, applications at private colleges showed a general increase, while interest in public colleges and univer- sities· was down. \People seem to be making the decision that if they can't do anything else, they're going..- to give their children a quality education, and they're willil'lg to pay for it.\ Another important factor in Union's rise, Mr. Nourse stressed, was the involvement of Gatesmen, student hosts and tour g1,1ides for . prospective .applicants. ''The Gateamen did a superior job,\ Mr. Nourse said, reporting that 2400 prospecti:ve students visited between July 1 and February 1. The admissions director also set forth the long range goals of his department. They are to increase the geographical distribution of the student body and increase the number of prep school graduates attending Union. At this point, 50 percent of the student body comes from New York State and 35 percent are graduates of prep schools. While Mr. Nourse said, \I don't think th~ geographical distribution will change much. That's a very long range goal,\ he characterized the increase in prep schoolers as more at- tainable and desirable both because they add a new dimension and perspective, and give the school a broader ap- pUcant base from which to draw. In its review 'of educational programs beyond the un- dergraduate level, the team felt the individual programs were good, but that the progralll as a whole seemed to have org~nizational problems. The entire program consists of Continuing Education and a Graduate progralll. The team noted that \the grouping of these . unrelated programs seemed to result in a peculiar te:ritoriality and a confusing m1x of mission.'' The team found tli.e quality of courses in the Continuing Education Foru\in !Jt:tQ;llt(j$. ChQp~·~·· ·~~~~'f:)·~· . ' More ·From Gado Is it your view that a liberal education program should return to a traditional approach to curriculum? It depends on what you :p1ean by \traditional.\ I sense a trace of deprecation when you say \traditional but youtve got to remember that, in an- thropological terms, one func- . tion of education is passing on tradition..,even as it redefines and reinterprets the past in the process. Tradition and · education are essentially linked. I do think, however, that we can find new ways of being traditional-both in the sense of transmitting a record of the vital past and in the sense of remaining true to our mission as a private liberal arts college. How is a private college dif- ferent.from a publicone in your opinion? · · 'There are as many answers to that as there are kinds of·· private colleges. In terms of Union, I would say that our paramount duty is, or should be, to serve an intellectual elite. Continued on page 4 1300 applications were ac- cepted, with the expectation UCoH Candidates Arrive - ·- - by PAUL GffiSDANSKY This coming Saturday, the 19th of April, is Ac.cepted Candidates Day at Union, the day ~hen Union College hosts accepted- applicants and their ? ~- .• ',,,\\. -. Pa~·~ '\ . . .,. ' ·. ;p,§. 6 .. parents in order to introduce them to the campus. - The day kicks off at 8:30 with registration at the Humanities Building, followed by a welcoming address an hour later by Kenneth Nourse, Dean of Admissions. At ten o;clock, receptions will be held by each of Union's four academic divisions, Humanities, Social Sciences, Sciences, and Engineering, in their respective areas of the campus. After an 11:30 lunch at the Field House, campus tours will be held at one and two o'clock. The activities will end <l'fihree with closing remarks by President Morris in Memorial Chapel. Last year's Candidates' Day hosted 350 high school seniors and 500 parents, and was a rousing success. This year, with the dse in the number of ap- - plicants, the Admissions Office expects an even greater turn- out. Saturday will also provide .students with a chance to become involved ·in the ad- missions pro.cess. Ushers, parking personnel and others will be needed to help. If you would like to give a little time, and if you want a chance to encounter some of next year's freshmen, then give Karen NawnorDavidDickenson a. call at the Admissions Office, ex- tension 6118. Finally, Mr. Nourse an- nounced two policy changes to be implemented next year. Applicants will be strongly encouraged to visit the campus for an interview. The interview indicates that an applicant is truly interested in Union College, Mr. Nourse said, and this is a factor which will weigh heavily in the applicant's evaluation. This y.ear, be reported, many very bright applicants were turned down because they emibited no in- terest in Union beyond their own course of study. Secondly, Union will no longer acce_pt the Common Application; a single application that is accepted by many small private colleges. This application was found to be objectionable for two reasons: 1) it encouraged. indiscriminate applications and . 2) it did not provide the specific information which Union finds useful, such as the athletic questionnaires includeq in regular Union ap- plications.

Page 2 Editorial ------~-----------------------~ In September 1970, after one hundred seventy-six years as an all-male college, Union admitted its first co-ed class. The first Concordiensis of the Fall term of 1970 announced this event as follows: \Union having joined the ever-increasing list of coeducational in- stitutions, welcomed on Sunday, the class of '74, with its almost record four hundred fifty men and WOMEN.\ Of the four hundred fifty membersof the freshman class, one hundred twenty-six were women. Needless to say, many changes have taken place since the entrance of this \pioneering class.\ In 1970 there were no interscholastic women's sports teams, few women's intramurals, ··and limited athletic facilities for women (a women's locker room was just in the process of ,being built in the gym). There were no co-ed dorms; all of the women of the first class lived in Richmond, as North was still under renovation to be used as a women's dorm and Smith House, formerly Prof. Allen's residence, did not become a women's house until winter term. Relatively few women were enrolled ln the sciences-- of the one hundred twenty-six freshmen women, forty-seven were enrolled in Center II (the Divisions of Science and Engineering), and the majority of these were biology or math majors. There were very, very few women professors to serve as role models. Granted, many more changes are needed before all the needs of women (and men, for that matter) are met, but there has undeniably been a great deal of progress since the first group of women arrived. This week is Women's Week, the theme of which this year is \A Ten Year Union of Women and Men.\ Throughout the week there have been and will be a number of events and activities with primary em- phasis on women, but of interest to and open to all. As this week is in commemoration of an important event in Union's history and the progressive mode so far towards advancing the position of women on campus, we hope the entire campus community will par- ticipate in this celebration of the tenth anniversary of coeducation at Union. OPEN MEETINGS Student Constitution to be discussed, Thursday, Aprill7, 9-11 p.m., Fox Lounge; Friday, Aprill8, 4-6 p.m., Student Forum Room, 4th floor Car• negte. . All are welcome to attend and express their opinions. Copies of the proposed constitution will be available. REFERENDUM TOBE HELD A referendum will be held on Thursday, April 24 and Friday, April 25, concerning the proposed constitution. The forum will hold its formal meeting on the document on ,Monday, April 21 after refusing input from the student body through the open meeting on Thursday and Friday. If you cannot attend either of these meetings and wish to express your opinions please contact any forum member. Mailboxes will be stuffed before the referendum so that each student will have ample opportunity to look over the document before the vote is taken. Thank you for your cooperation. Bloodmobile to be held April23 and 24 in Strauss Lmmge; 11- 5. For more information, check with Lorraine Marra, 6118. W'lion -..- . . concorOa~n516 editor-in-chief managing editor news editors features editors · arts editor photo editors donna creeley jim davis ed albro, ellen van dyke barb plotkin, paul grossman mandyabrams pam ryan, norm pflaster sports editor assistant sports editor women's sports editor layout editors rich hope billcW'tin chris phelan rachel mandel; sue marr ellen rubin julie isgro, larry leavitt sara sinunons ellen berger, maria manfredonia . sharon camms, andrea bower·s, paul feinsot, copy editor business managers .subscription editor calendar · staff mindy broser, fran teitel, irwin menken photo staff frank skorina, sara simmons CONCORDIENSIS is published every ThW'sday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, Ne:w York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8%- Reynolds Ave., Oneonta; New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy,,$10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. · • I THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS O_F PUBLIC POLICY A Talk will be given, by Dr. Peter Buttner ' Thursday April 24 7:30 lower Hale House Lounge Sponsored by S. E. A. JOIN US ON THE TRUCK, RECYCLING THIS FRIDAY :AT 1 :30,MEET AT MAl NTENANCE - '.:: ·~ ,·. .·'\\' .. To th r

Page 2 Editorial In September 1970, after one hundred seventy~six years as an all-male college, Union admitted its first co-ed class. The first Concordiensis of the Fall term of 1970 announced this event as follows: \Union having joined the ever-increasing list of coeducational in- stitutions, welcomed on Sunday, the class of '74, with its almost record four hundred fifty men and WOMEN.'' Of the four hundred fifty members of the freshman class, one hundred twenty-six were women. Needless to say, many changes have taken place since the entrance of this ''pioneering class.'' In 1970 there were no interscholastic women's sports teams, few women's intramurals, and limited athletic facilities for women (a women's locker room was just in the process of being built in the gym). There were no co-ed dorms; all of the women of the first class lived in Richmond, as North was still under renovation to be used as a women's dorm and Smith House, formerly Prof. Allen's residence, did not become a women's house until winter term. Relatively few women were enrolled in the sciences-- of the one hundred twenty-six freshmen women, forty-seven were enrolled in Center II (the Divisions of Science and Engineering), and the majority of these were biology or math majors. There were very, very few women professors to serve as role models. Granted, many more changes are needed before all the needs of women (and men, for that matter) are met, but there has undeniably been a great deal of progress since the first group of women arrived. This week is Women's Week, the theme of which this year is \A Ten Year Union of Women and Men.\ Throughout the week there have been and will be a number of events and activities with primary em- phasis on women, but of interest to and open to all. As this week is in commemoration of an important event in Union's history and the progressive mode so far towards advancing the position of women on campus, we hope the entire campus community will par- ticipate in this celebration of the tenth anniversary of coeducation at Union. OPEN MEETINGS Student Constitution to be discussed, Thursday, Aprill7, 9-11 p.m., Fox Lounge; Friday, April18, 4-6 p.m., Student Forum Room, 4th floor Car- negie. All are welcome to attend and express their opinions. Copies of the proposed constitution will be available. REFERENDUM TO BE HELD A referendum will be held on Thursday, April24 and Friday, April 25, concerning the proposed constitution. The forum will hold its formal meeting on the document on Monday, April 21 after refusing input from the student body through the open meeting on Thursday and Friday. If you cannot attend either of these meetings and wish to express your opinions please contact any forum member. Mailboxes will be stuffed before the referendum so that each student will have ample opportunity to look over the document before the vote is taken. Thank you for your cooperation. Bloodmobile to be held April23 and 24 in Strauss Lounge, 11- 5. For more information, check with Lorraine Marra, 6118. union coUArfJC • .. concor01e:n515 editor-in-chief managing editor news editors features editors arts editor photo editors sports editor assistant sports editor women's sports editor layout editors copy editor business managers subscription editor calendar staff donna creeley jim davis ed albro, ellen van dyke barb plotkin, paul grossman mandy abrams pam ryan, norm pflaster rich hope bill curtin chris phelan rachel man del, sue marr ellen rubin julie isgro,larry leavitt sara simmons ellen berger, maria manfredonia sharon camins, andrea bowers, paul feinsot, rnindy broser, fran teitel, irwin menken photo staff frank skorina, sara simmons CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York, 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 8% Reynolds Ave., Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-S737. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. n, 1980 : Letters Campus Safety To the Editor: \ I do not as a rule comment on items in the student n~wspaper but your recent editorial and some of the items concerning traffic safety on campus come to the very point that this office is attempting to rnak~. A College Campus Safe For All. 1~ The lighting program on campus is underway with a study made by this office and Saratoga Associates. Recommendations for ad~ ditional lighting have been made; improvement will be made in the near future. 2. New sigWJ for Traffic Control are now on order and will be installed. We wanted to get signs that wnuld be authoritative and conform with the modern trend of signing small private colleges. It is difficult to keep signs installed more than a week, as the signs are prime targets for souvenirs and room decorations. 3. Many tickets have been issued for excessive speed and the only recourse is a fine for a first offense when students are involved. A loss of driving and parking privileges is being considered as a penalty for this most serious action. Many cars on campus are persons cutting through, not students of Union. We have investigated persons from off campus and formally charged them with destruction of college property. Intoxicated person mentioned, is an alumnus, did speed off campus after the accident, we did get his license number and, an alert student provided additional information. A cost of repair was paid, but this does not eliminate the problem. , I want to thank you and your staff f{)r bringing this most important subject to the at- tention of the College com- munity. I agree high speed chaser can do more harm then good. We get license nwnbers and deal from there. A con- trolled campus may not be too far in the future for Union College. Clifford Wood Director of Security ....Safety· Rot Revision To the Editor: Due to administration hassles, we are forced to make changes. Hopefully, these changes will make a happy medium between the Rathskellar, the administration and you, the student. The ·changes are: -A Union ID is now required to buy beer. We cannot serve to anybody else. A Union student must buy the beer for his guest. So please do not be offended by the fact that you have to show your ID. ., -Last call will be at 2 a.m. or earljer. Everybody must be out by 2:30 a.m. So once again, please don't be offended if one of the workers asks ycm to leav~ when you coxve in and it is crowded to the- door. Go to the Pub (they need the· business). -There will be no bottles allowed outside the Rat. If you must leave, we will furnish a free Rat cup suitable for a special spot on your bookshelf. We ask for your support in these changes, and we hope that this will not change your at- titude toward the Rat. By working together on these problems, our job at the Skellar will be easier and have less hassles. As the graffitti in the men's room wall readsj \Hey Hey, My, My the Rat will never die'' I hope this is so. Thank you for patronage, and we hope to see you all soon. The Head Rat Co-Op Crisis To the Editor: Residence Life is presently contemplating the destiny of cooperative living on campus for the 1980-Bl school year. Due to the limited success of McKean House and the mid* year self*dissolvement of 'Bronner House, the need f{lr two all women co-ops is being queset.ioned. The tentative dedsion is to retain Smith and McKean in their present form and to integrate Bronner into North Dormitory by ter- minating lts coop status. Cooperative living was in* trodueed in the early 70's with the arrival of women at Union. Their purpose, initially two co- ops, was to· provide women a \fraternity-like\ alternative style of living. Sororities were not present in the early years of women on campus. The two sororities (Delta Gamma and Sigma Delta T.au), in the estimation of residence life, now offer Union women the housing alternative which the cooperatives were initially intended to provide. The tentative decision Which has been reached is based upon a variety of factors. 'J'4e suc- cess, measured in terms of CO* op dropouts, of McKean and Bronner has been, at best, sporadic in recent years. The most distressing development has been the dispersion of Bronnet· earlier this year. Furthermore, statistical evidence indicates that dor- mitory living is far more valued on campus than co-op living. Whereas dorm room ·changes have been about .10 per cent campus--wide this year, co--op roem changes have been up- wards of 25 per c~mt. This gives a fairly clear indication that students are trying to .. get outj! of co-op situations far more frantically than other on· campus alternatives. The decision to terminate the cooperative status at Bronner House, as already mentioned, is tentative. The final decision will be made in the coming weeks prior to the Lottery. The Housing Committee is open to any and all suggestions fro:tn the entire College community regarding this matter. Please bring written· responses to the Residence Ufe Office or any Housing Com. mittee mtm~r. The Housing ~orrunittt\A Liz Mirabella ,OaveE. Doug ••£<\''\'' Amy Zimmerman Femme Fatale 1'o the Editors: A spectre is haunting Union~ the spectre of Feminism. All the Powers of Old Union must enter into a holy alliance to exorcise this spectre.: Maintainence and food services. cust-odial staff and administration, students and faculty. Where Is the party in opposition that hq.s been . decried as Feministic by its opponents in power? Where is the Opposition that has hurled back the impotent chiding ·of Feminism, against the more advanced opposition parties, as well as against its just ad~ versaries? Two things result from this fact: 1} Feminism is already acknowledged by the entire campus community to be itself a dangerous power. 2) It is high time that we openly expose feminists, so to speak, in the face of the whole world as to their misguided Views, their destructive aims, their per- verted tendenciesj and meet this nursery tale of the Spectre of Feminism with the Macho Manifesto. To this end, Macho Men from various college::; have assembled at Union, and sketched the { following Manifesto to he published. The history of all hitherto existing society is the history of sex struggles. Husband and wife, boyfriend and girlfriend, in a word, master and slave, stood in constant opposition to one anothe:~;, carried on an --uninterrupted, now hiddi:m, now open fight. The Feminists, with their pernicious propaganda campaign (i.e., Women's Week), have almost succeeded in gaining the top position, as it were, in this chronic, classic conflict. They must be stopped! No self respecting academic community can afford to tolerate this kind of behavior. · I demand that Union College return to its pre~l970 all*male admissions policy. Moreover, all current female students and employees must be dismissed. There is no place for women in academia; everyone knows women are weak, stupid, and incompetent. We. the Macho Men of America, disdain to conceal our views and aims. We openly declare that our ends can be attained only by the forcible overthrow of all existing feminists. Let those bull dykes tremble at our Macho. Machine. We have nothing to lose but our chains, whips~ cat o' nine tails, short pieces of rope, leather, and rubbersuits. Wehavea world to win! MACHO MEN OF THE WORLD UNITE! Sincerely, oz.,, .. ...,t\ Marx THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF PUBLIC POLICY A Talk will be given by Dr. Peter Buttner Thursday April 24 1:30 Lower Hale House Lounge Sponsored by S. E.A. JOIN US ON THE TRUCK, RECYCLING THIS FRIDAY AT 1: 30,ME ET AT MAINTENANCE - ~~\I ;I~ ~\~ ; fl i] \: p, . . !1iSl '<)COJ ··J101 ,uq ,·om xho Um tWO · wlli lo.li • Brc T ~~ gi v ·! CO·l } rec :~ Brc ~~· .. ·but ·E:· for '.·co- :jf Ce!' .: rer .·:,. th< ,;~Me '~! ~. op '( its :} \ j \_ r I

e party been y its ~re is urled 1g of more ~.as ; ad· 1 this eady mtire itself :high qlOSe 1 the as to their per .. meet· ectre (acbo fac:ho ibave wing .. berto ~ry of and ·iend, ~ave, on to 1 an , now with anda ten's leded qver, tf;.:and ~l'l¢d. ,~n in ltl.lws. ,:and taollo tn to s.We iends r, the r all ituble ·have - OONOORDIEN$IS~ April 17, 1980 Pages ~up port ' . ~ / .. for,CE·op·, 'h&ve, a~~ well' as a- com\ prehe::nsive pr:e$entatioq of co~ ~P life Jo.r prwpect~ve\•mem· bers. · Co·op li:Vlrtg has ,...,, ..... , .. advantages such as less ex~ pensiv'0··mflal pkms, an ..• ., ..... ·~·\\ native to sorority life (and · To the Edltots: soda! obligations), · and : .. i , superior Hving coJl.cUtions. If ... \.:; As· members· of lVlcK.ean Co· usr;d to their full potential, co· 1; op, we were very upset at tbe ops . are ·a very appealing p misr~presentation of co-ops and alternative to dormitory or ·: che ··proposed elimination of·ft·aternity life. Instead of taking ; Bronner House as a co-op. away from the co\'6ps Housing ,·1 For tl;loae people who . cla not shmlld giv~ them more support. · ,!: know· .. about co~ops r·fand a . !~ surprismg number don!t), they . !W consis~ of a grpup o4 ~tudents .· p1 who ·1tve together and share . Th?nkyou Members of McKean CO<-op . .,. ~ re.~pQns!bilitres fo~ ··copking. . k:' Umon Colle~~ has fa es foc, f.) two female and't'Jn& . _towops ·.·Phi S,ig . r,J whien> al~i;;~~i)l~ ·~·' kfl~g~. ~1 forty tw..o sttH.i.ents.{JVIttKean and ~4 B. ronner 12·-eac. h, &init.tt .. 1 .. 8). 1 .... ~· The . Housif1g. Corru:nittee. is ~: giving.t}Je false}mP~essi{ill.Jhat r~ co-ops have J}ot .W9rked· in The inembel's of Phis·: lgm1a· ~: recent ·¥e~rs .. It> t&:~ ·trttlr<tt)at Kappey would like,. 'to .·· tl ~anik:ol ;; Bronner dtd· f.hssolve'· ~his y~r~ ev~rybodywoo helped .Y. ,!.Qfl•y b but ia<St year, a~fla~dmg to l>ts 1971*80 eharit;v .. ~:vertt ~ .·fll.i!J:~• t' former membeJJSl'''lin•.ter~rur Qf. $;U~¢llS.&, , , ,,, ~ , , \ , / co-qp\' ~pouta,,\titm ''\· · · · ungf,}y '~tght~ ga~,ry ..... A-'• t cessful. . We w ., Ji~~ .t9., Tom . . . · played for ~. remiq<!_.th~ Hou • .. mmittee Z10tJ people · at· · Proctor's t that thts 1s the t1rs.t t·hat Theater; downtown.. After t~ McKean has . · C!l:- the \· · r: space are.problems for - ·Once again, we would .· · .. r,j. anc;t .:~rortt:ter .. re,spectively. fhacnk everyone who helped. We t.;j,.' ~;. ~~~~~~!~:.:~. ';~t~t:f : · ~:!~(,e· y{)ur, mon~y was> f~ · regponsibilities that co--op living f\ entails. Stewards are often . Sincerely., S) uninformed about buying in The Brothers, Pledges and ) large quantlty ar.d handling UUleSisters of Phi Sigma Kappa (i] problems which arise from co· i~ .op living. Co-ops would benefit · greatly from <:! training . worhshap for the stewards ·• '· sirnilr.w !o the ones which RA's P .S. \v c would also like to thank tbe brothers (.{ Chi Ps1 for their c.;ontributhms for ·Jl:.r :'/!iller · Bottle Collection. i ·< ,. .·., .. UJOK oetn for details of Camp Union 1980 Saturday, May 24-- ALL DAY Beer-Games-Food-Live Music Social Committee Meeting Monday, 4-21, 7:30p.m. in Carnegie Union College Speakers Forum presents Tony Randa11 Friday, April 25th 9:00 .p.m. Memorial Chapel Parents' Weekend Tickets ·on sale now $1 for students & fa.m.i l.ies Tickets at the door $1.50 for students & families Off-Campus persons $2.00 at ail times • • •nute . . Monday, April 7, 1980 ~1eetingl9 i\1eeting came to order at 7:40 .p.m. P:·esiding: Ken Plurnb. Student Body President r.Iembers absent: t,hris :.1cCarty. all meetings of the Student Forum and shall vote oolv in the event of a tie.\ A motion was made and seconded to add the <:.nderiincd section uf the sen- tence ;;; b<JVe. H\)Wever. the nwtiun was \'oted down bv a \'CllC of;) in favor. ~l ::l~ainst. and ~ Ill abstentton. A motion was made and ~,econcied tu add the ru'lh.•wing sentence tu Article !V, St:ction :J: The President of liiL' S(~.\ sh;Jll bt> empowered ~·J • In ,.. u~· •:. ·' . e 2 abstaining. By Executive Privilege, the following two change;; were also made: The last sentence of .\rtlcle iV Section ;· '.vas ·!eletect. and obvwusiv. 1n 1\rtH\le l \' ·· Anicie 12 =>!WUhi reaJ .. Section I :2.\ ~t..cc;;d.Pd i (j ;-rnprln l\ :h ... : f: .. \10\\·int l'\1<-diJ;.~ ~H r\~·tic~t~ 1\'. ::, ·dlllll ~~~. :, \ <1('aiiC\' OCI'UlTi.lW i.: Lit• •lfl :cPs uf Vice-1-'rPsldenl l. .~ndy Mitchell reported thm presently the Education<.Jl Policy Committee is looking into the Dartmouth College :-;vstcril (lf Pass•Fail NKtrkim~ r;,r P•iSSiblc implementation nt Union. Tht> future nf the American Studies program as well as credit for ROTC students is also being con- sidered. The Forum expressed concern over the seemingly large increase in the amount of students being dismissed from school because .of unacceptable grade averages. Mttchell said he would report back to the For.um concerning this issue. 'n''lte a cabinet fer t·hc nurposc tnr ,\<tmlmsirauon of we .'il.i,\. .r bf'cominl', more aware ot ., lc'e·t'!'l':ildem ivr l· lii<~nce ul 2. Mark Burnett requested Forum support for Fitz Hugh Ludlow 'Day. A motion was made and seconded to give the F .H.t. Day Committee $2000. The motion was approved by a vote of 10 in favor and 4 in ab- stention. 3. Dave o·connor reported that since the Sailing Club had not submitted their constitution by the February 11 deadline. their funds had been frozen. 4. The Forum next considered the following amendments to the Constitution: Article HI. A motion was made and seconded to remove the words, \and graduate.\ The motion ·was approved by acclamation. Article IV, Section 3. (from the second sentence l \The President of the SGA shall chair ~turtent concerns. Jiscussu1g \ssues, and iorumlating plans to 1111plement decisions. This motion. too, was voted down bY a \'ote of 2 in tavor, 7 against. an<! 5 in abstention. ;\ motion was made and seconded to delete the last sentence of :'\rticle IV. Sec.tion :L The motion was approved with 5 in favor, 2 opposed, and 4 ab· staining. A motion was made and seconded to change the second sentence of Article IV, Section 6 to rec:td as follows: Three 131 Freshmen, three 1 3 l Sophomores, and three 13 l Juniors shaH be elected by their respective classes each Spring to serve one vear terms of of- fice. Freshmen elected during the following year shall be designated \Sophomore Class Representatives;\ Sophomores elected during the following year shall be designated ·'Junior Class Re.presen· tatives;\ and Juniors elected during the spring term to represent their classes during the following year shall be designated \Senior Class Representatives.\ The motion was passed with 10 in favor and Union. Days & Nites: U,c :;l;A, :;tuuem T;·u:-!l'e , r t ii..iss !{eoresentatiw ~<tall :}~· nHccl by ·~: special dect.wn .. \ i.tutllm was made and seeonded tu \able the above chan~e. The rnotion to table was deteateti wtth :\in ravor anu 6 opposeu. ,\ motwn was then made to ..>p- prove the change. The motwn was seconded and then <m- proved with 6 m favor, 3 op· posed and 3 in abstention. The Forum then moved to a closed session in which the following appointments to the Tax Committee were made: .Jim Fisher '81 1 Co-chairman 1, Peter McCafferv '82 1 Co- chairman l, Daniel Logue '82. Mark Zukowski '81. Barton Levine '83, Noel Tenenbaum '82. David Konys '.82. The next meeting of the Student Forum was scheduled for Monday, April 21, 1980, at i :30 p.m. in its appointed place. 301 Carnegie. 5. The Forum was adjourned at 9:45p.m. Respectfully, Ben Levitan S~:cretary TokinQ Stock In The Future hy JIM DAVIS \n1orH:. thf' ins('riptions in thP ii~·-~1·.~· ror'll: l'l1 •be .fir~t floor nf Ba1lev Hall is one that savs. c: ·We're not here for a iong time. ~­ \\'r.'re 11\.'re for ;1 ~~n0d tlmf'.\ v • :~1 ~··:a l~y c::r~ '! nr~:ue ~:rith <: 'i:<tt \lost oconi(· only ~pend a ~ :.-w ::4•;,r .. ,,,m~ (11 c\llrgt'. and >- thal time should be enjoyable. .n Indeed, there are many who will .E contend that their college days ~ were the best of their life. The problem with this kind of thinking is that it treats having a good time and giving some attention to Union's future as two mutually exclusive things. It's saying that you can't enjoy yourself once you start con- sidering \others. Which isn't so, at least not all the time. There are plenty of occasians when doing something for another person will make you feel awfully good. Any number of campus residents realize this and so involve themselves throughout the year. But at this time, there are three such groups whose efforts deserve recognition. One is the Orientation Committee. While the beginning Jim Davis business. Through it all, though, Orientation remains a pretty hypothetical proposition. Having gone through it our- selves, we lmow pretty much what will be happening. But the identity of the freshmen who will be taking part in it is a mystery. About 650 new students will be coming here in September, I'm told. But no one knows exactly who will make up that number. That's because most of those accepted for admission have until May 1 to make up their mind and decide if they want to cast their lot here. And 'this weekend, these prospective students will get a chance to see the College first- hand. Saturday is ''Accepted Candidates Day,\ when they of the next academic year is still some five months distant, two dozen or so students are actively involved in preparing the program for welcoming a new flock of incoming freshmen come September. · Orientation, of course, doesn't run by itself-though it may have appeared to whim you were the one being oriented. For it to run like clockwork, members of the Orientation Committee are now having to make often-elaborate and painstaking preparat ons. · can visit Unionand go through a program of .events designed to show them something of what this place is about. Most of us· 'have little idea of the volume of work they have to assume. I got some inkling when a friend on the committee rec.ently spent a whole night- until 7 a.m.--taking care of that The concept of such a program is fairly unique and unquestionably solid. It's what sold me. And it will probably do the same for some of those who spend time here this weekend. Those who helped plan the day's activities, as well as those who will take a part in carrying them out, assisting with traffic direction, reg~stration and the like, should get a pat on the back. Thev're taking stock m the L'\llc~e s i uture. !'!wse ·s ho :.rrn ·r ~raduatmg in .Jww -.v1ll < ·- ' ~ ! • < ' •• ' • ' f [ \ ! ~··! ' ~ • .'arne tune. thur t::':!Jiv•·mem ~nouid ,;en •: ~~s ,u: ;nd:, :n~nn ~ <) tliu~t.: ;·~·: .. -...~dcrln~: ~·.:~-~-.--l·i-:1~·v~t t:~:-1' ·~~·~\ ·: 1 ~t\ndtn~ ,'_-.:~:·:._:t~ ;:-· more tllan JUSt t:om\2 :.:> ,·.~ass ;1nd ·;tuciyim;. lt 's the people--students. faculty and administrators-· that lend vibrancy to Union and make it unique. Without us, this campus wouldn't be as lively. But it would remain out of the ordinary. It's the first campus to be developed according to an architectural plan, designed in 1813 by Frehchrnan Joseph· Jacques Ramee. Time has served it well. Most of couldn't imagine it looking better than on one of the ex· ceedingly rare sunny days Schenectady offers. But, like Orientation,. this preservation doesn't happen out of its own accord. There's a maintenance staff who do this as part of their j.ob. But those of us who live here also have a responsibility to keep our house in order, as it were. And last Friday's campus dean-up program was a good start in that direction. Professor Theodore G. Sch- wartz helped organize the \spring cleaning,\ and the only thing he regretted was that more time wasn't available to publicize the event. Fraternities. and sororities. especially, could take an active role, he said. Those who did this year are to be commended. And those who didn't or couldn't are encouraged to next time. This sort of involvement is encouraging. And most will probably say it's also a pretty good time. Which really is a big part. of what oUt' short stay in college is all about. ' .

the and staff party been. by its is· ·Of more as ad~ this ready entire itself high the as to their per- meet pectre have and of and slave, to an with a as it demic to eover, and in and to We ends the f all emble have short , and to THE Page 3 OONOORDIENSIS, April 11, 1980 ~ - -~~. ---------------~--------~- ~- 1 [';,;: • ;!fl- $:) ,, ---~ \\\' ·~ . tw. e·--. . .r· . - ,~~ !if~,~-·~-~ ~-~h,· :g~t ~\'f{Y.S\'DJ, ~''iJ'\ . ~;:~l 0~_--o:·f::~\ ' . -' • '\''' J'( l:,\1·~- I>' ··'• --~· ) . . . . ~·-·_,' ·~'14_._· '-' '· ,:-' \'' , ,,. cr . <; ., \\\\\_ __ , - . r .. _~; __ : \·~-~---· ~~-~~~ xx. .. ·.,_ .. ,-_.·.·-.·. .:~~,:.-_:_ . • ~\c~~;;,_.-;;r.w·'££«< -~hll. ~ - · · -- -~ .. . ~\: \ - d \ • ~ I S!:lO . ~~> ';nn a:-, 1 pn! ,, ·. ,j; nwe!lilF'.~ \Jl [he .-,tuder.t :.·,·n•::·, :md ~.iwil >.·nt.\' nnlv in the ff ·. i?(·\inr.; 19 1·::-1 . • :, \\ ~ ' : t I I ! ! Supper.? have, as 1vell as a com- ti\. prehensive presentation of cc- ~l; 1 op liie for pros~ctive mem- \;(·~~ :J.lll be r ,--.; 1· · 1... 1 ·~- ~-~:· ~:Hii.f'!il.' :~.t::! 1'il!!nb 'il-='l~· ·'~·'} .~\';_~i!il~~;d :c ~:il .. ·. l;\i'-~~~ ··f;cdun ~,. I i .t, \ , _: l I~ 1. 1 ; (.; , ! '. l : 1 ' 1 .... \ ~ 1 ~ ,i ~. 1. \,\ .s. ~...-o·op wmg uas many 1iJ advantages such as less ex- i'-'j ·.; 'J•h~•' 1 i\tlll'- : ';-(·~;d,;m. pensive rneal plans. an alter- ~)1 .: ,.,·,' ·: -· >z-nt ' ' ., -· t \ · ,.f~ ~ .. -~ i:·i ·::rt\ na w;: ul s!;ront.•; ,, e 1 anu 'i~11 .\':C~~-·· ·: ;~~~atiOl:~-~.. ·.dl~ ~~l U~.ll}~i0r' ~P::r,·~ (.'01:\UltHJ\1~. ii. !;::·~ .,.~' - 1'1 \. . l \';''j \'(,:! .. , 'l:~:i.~':_:l_'4' ',J.:-·t-\l ~..:.l ~~H-;olr : n . not.ent1dl- ~_:o ... ·:-~ ,_, ·Jp ~ ~ -~.t·l ~~:1 \ ·. 1 · . ~ :,r ' .1 •. t:r\· J.opea •m~ :-n .- ,•, t, I l \' ',1. . r ·. . \ : . ·~ ' ( J ~ ~.' • 1 :!'\ ... ;- •• ~ j i • ': \ -...: j' :· ; l '_' '!; l1 ~ t . ' j l ~; l • ::I ! ~ I q;, ·'!'.: \ j ' ~ ( . - : ~ : ~ 11 -' : ' : i ~ . ·.' ' .. , '·\ lllt'' n!Jers of .\kKean -~~~- 0, v..-~o were ven upset ill <.he :, brepresentatio;l of t:~rops and !1e proposed eiiminatwn of ·~conner House as a c.o~op. all..ernatlvt' ;,) tiormhorv or :,rj ·-:.•\\\ ·: >~-·- .. :: · ·;.::: · fl'aterniiy life. Instead of taking~~~ · ,- •·.;):,• ·: 1 d\'P\'-:'··· '''\l '. ' - ;t''.<'V<~Y irorn \he co-ops. 11ousing ~.~., 1 ''-··''· '\' •'!' 1 ·~''-' shouid gtV€ them more support.~-··:·.·&~ '.:.:•:n<·:n• ·'' ;;rii•''i ' 1 !''><'ra!<, .,,o F ''r those people who do not .now about co-ops (and a ;urprising number don'tl, they , ·onstst of a group at students xho live together and share responsibilities fot cooking. Umon College has facilities for l wu female and one co-ed co-ops ~~ ·.':t)d ,~ ; r•}d!.l ~ ~~r 1 :~ -~·!\'(' Vi' · · Thank you¢~: ., un{'nt~ ~~ :t;•o . H:·! .. )n- l\Jlernbets of McKean Co-op r._:,~.·. iden•rl. Tr;•: F nrum '·:-mn~sseu _ ~~ •. :.·.·.· ''<HH'ern v <'I' 'l:t> .·;r;n~lW.!l\' :· fCOJHit~d , , 1 b·· tar~~e 1ncr~.'ase in i :·1e t.tlfl(dJ!lt 'i: t•'- <udem~ hPlDI! dismissed f:-nm j. '.:l<·tt~ '(Lt· \,\tJt•!t• !\' .:c.;t ,-}•menet· ... :··n'l\011 ::. Phi Sig \~ -.:chunl becanse nf l.tnarce~tabie 6 ~- -~raJe <1\'Pra-ge:-:. \· ~;aid ;-:-,·1t>H! ',\;~~~ ~~~pro\·ed \riU1 :) :n ·.-,-_or .. -. ~.nposed. and ; ;.o- , , I 1- : which are capable of housing 1nrty two students (McKean and Thanks ~ he \muld n'[.·Ort tm1~1< t.J ~.he 'Forum t'oncernin~ this issue. '1 :tinin~. \ :l~lltion was made ;,nil ,-,:conded to \'llange the ;-;ecoml ;:r J'.'t't1 ~ ... it it ,: .• ~ Lt\·t;r. ·. <) .. , 1uSt.'d <:nli :'. in ;llJ:itt>!ll.iutl. . :·:;;· ~·'pru:1l 'n•:n rnon•u td ~. dDSed St!SSiOti li1 WlllCtl the : nllnwin~ appointment~ tO the TdX Cumrmttee ·sere maue; .J llll ;;·ishl'r 81 'C•l·chamnan '. Peter :,lcCaffery ·e~ . Co- , ·hairmc-m '. Damel Logue d2. :\lark Zukowski '31. Barton i .._,vine '33. \oel Tenenballi'11 32. David Konvs '82. • Bronner 12 each, Smith 18). _, The . Housing Committee is :, giving the false impression that ,l co-ops have not worked in The members of Phi Sigma .l recent years. It ts true that Kappa would like 'to thank ,-·~-' __ · Br_ onn. er did disso-lve ~his ye~r, eve_ryb_. ody who helped mak. e_i.ts il:. but last year, acco_rdmg to Its 1979-80 charity event a huge .;; former members, m terms of suc-cess. \ · co-op dropouts, it was. sue- Last Sunday night; Harry and ;~ cess~ul.. We wou~d also hk_e to 'Torn .Chapin played for over 'l remmd the Housmg Co:mnuttee 21f.t0 people at Proctor's ::;;, that this is the first year that 'Theater downtown. After :i\ McKean has ope_rated as·~ C?-- e_xpense~, the proceeds from 1 ?P· ~nd that Snuth, House 1s m twR:et sales and food donations i;~ Its ftrst year as a cu-.ed co-?P.· at West amounted . to ap· :~ Also, because we are dealing proximately a 6600 dollar :;~ with such srnall nurnbers, donation to the Food Policy 1;':_ dealing in , .perc~mtages can Centerto fight hunger in today's } often be mtsleadmg. We feel society. ''j that many of th.e problen;~ ~re 1'he conduct of the crowd was :~ due .. to the . poor fac11ltu~s ex:eellent, and we would also• :~ prov tded to the co-op.. ~ 18 like to thank the audience for its :) 1!1cl~des la~k of suff1~1ent patienc-e during the ten-minute \J '-~okmg uten~Ils (McKean ts the- delay at the beginning of the ; 1 l'h oud possessor of . one performahce. >) saucepan). Freezerand kttchen ~ space are problems for McKean J Jncl Bronner respectively. :; .\n•1ther majGr problem. for the ~ •'lHJps is unawareness of the Once again, we would like to th~lk everyone who helped. We ., bel1eve your money was well 1 ' spent. ,·•monsibiltties t~at co-op living :~! :1 i! '·· \TPward!i are often ' ( ::I' J; !1 (!; )' . . . . ll:l!·l !);; :~· ,! .' l !'; 1 f - \ : •. --.: ~ --·-·- --. ~ ·-~-·-- --- ---------·~~-------~--------------- .... --~·-·- ----~· -----------·-- i·or details ct Camp Union 1980 Saturday, May24-- ALL DAY Beer-Games- Food- Live Music Social Committee Meeting Monday, 4-21. 7:30p.m. in Carnegie Union College Speakers Forum presents Tony Randall Friday, April 25th 9:00 p.m. Memoriai Ct1apel Parents~ Weekend Tickets on saie now $1 for students & families :~ckets at the dcQI. ~ 1.50 for studen-ts & families ~~- :\1arl< Burnett reauested F0rum support for Fit?: Hu~h Ludlow Oa v. .-\ mot10n was made and seconded tO f!iVe the F.H.L. Dav Committee 52000. The motion was approved by a vote of 10 in favor and 4 in ab- stention. 3. Dave O'Connor reported that since the Sailing Club had not submitted their constitution by the February 11 deadline. their funds had been frozen. ·L The Forum next considered the following amendments to the Constitution: Article III. A motion was made and seconded to remove the words. \and graduate.\ The motion was approved by acclamation. ,\rticle IV. Section 3. 1 from the second sentence' \The President of the SG A shall chair . entence of Article lV, Section li :·_, read as follows: Three 1 :) • Freshmen, three :.\1 Sophomores. anrl threE' ':31 .Juniors shall be elected bv their respedive ciasses each Spring to serve one ., ear terms of of- fice. Freshmen elected during the following year shall be designated \Sophomore Class llcpresentatives:\ Sophomores elected during the following ,·ear shall be designated .. Junior Class Represen- tatives:\ and .Juniors elected during the spring term to represent their classes during the following year shall be designated \Senior Class Representatives .. , The motwn '.Vas passed with 10 in favor and The next meeting ui tile :--:tudent Forum was scheduled tor :\londav. April 21. 1980. at ; :30 p.m. in its appointed piace. :m Carnegie. ;:;. The Forum was adjourneu at 9:45 n.m. ~\e:'pectfuUy. Be:: [ .e•:ttar. :--· ·I :r~lta r:: Union Doys & Nites: ''! ''.' . '.t .', j •I' ,:·.l1 • .· \ >··· ~~;1.:~·\·< L~J·,_~'~, d·~·c :r~:~ny ··Hl·-. 1 Ld :L~~t trd .. '!l l'o!lfgC dt\YS ;? ,_,ere the best of their life. :i The problem vvith this kind of thinking is that it treats having a good time and giving some attention to Union's future as two mutually exclusive things. It's saying that you can't enjoy yourself once you start con- sidering others. Which isn't so, at least not all the time. There are plenty of occasions when doing something for another person will make you feel awfully good. Any number of campus residents realize this and so involve themselves throughout the year. But at this time, there are three such groups whose efforts deserve recognition. One is the Orientation Committee. While the beginning of the next academic year is still some five months distant, two dozen or so students are actively involved in preparing the program for welcoming a new flock of incoming freshmen come September. Orientation. of course, doesn·t run by itself-though it may have appeared to when you wPre the nne being oriented. For it to run like clockwork. members of the Orientation ( 'nmmittec are now having to make o1ften-elRborate and painstakin~ preparat ons. business. Through it all, though, Orientation remains a pretty hypothetical proposition. Having gone through it our- selves, we know pretty much what will be happening. But the identity of the freshmen who wi11 be taking part in it is a mystery. About 650 new students will be coming here in September, I'm told. But no one knows exactly who will make up that number. That's because most of those accepted for admission have until May 1 to make up their mind and decide if they want to cast their lot here. And this weekend, these prospective students will get a chance to see the College first- hand. Saturday is ·'Accepted Candidates Dav,'' when thev can visit Union and go through a program of events designed to show them something ot what this place is about. The concept of such a program IS fairly unique and unquestionably solid. It's what soid me. And it will probably do the sanw for soml' of those who _,nend time hen' th1s weekend. i i ~ i I \ ~ l '..,: ' I'~ , ,• , _· ;'·;t\. I ir 'I'\ ' . ·:I . ·.,•', ;; . .t:i t' '· L hl' !)t~O!}itl·--< ~1:~t 1 :1::..;, i <H' ult :. a.l'l ~~d llll:l. Sll J [,. •· -.-- that lend \'ibranc:. tl L'r:lll1 ~,mi make it unique. Without us. this campus wouldn't be as liYely. But it would remain out lll the ordinarv. It's the first campus to be developed according to an architectural plan, designed in 1813 by Frehchman Joseph- Jacques Ramee. Time has served it well. Most of couldn't imagine it looking better than on one of the ex- ceedingly rare sunny days Schenectadv offers. But, like Orientation. this preservation doesn't happen out of its own accord. There's a maintenance staff who do this as part of their job. But those of us who Jive hen· also have a responsibility to keep our house in order. as 1t were. And last Frida\'·~ camnu!:- dean-up program \~·as a ~;H'' i start in that direction. Professor Theodore \;. 3ch '>vartz helped orgarnz~· :ht \spring cleaning.\ and tht' l'!ll~ :hmg lw re~retted \las 1\lat more time \\asn't :l\'<lllahle '•· puolicizc the t'\'ent. Fr-att'rnities and ~nr. •rtttt·~ •'speclall\·. l'ouid takl' an :w~I\1 r11lc. lle saul. Thost' wiH, t!:d :!11~ -.-L'ar ;1rc (\ '>P \'!)llUTlt'nue:' .\11•' ~host' who dilln 't . •r ' l •uldn t :tr• ,•ncoura~l'li to next t :me Off-Campus persons $2.00 at ail times ' ·\O;~~Zt:::::!\\\\!St:!S. .............. ,_ ... Jt ... 'm-~~~ '1ost of us 11avP iittle idea oi ; he \'olume ot work thcv have to c~sstmw. l I.!Ot some. mldin!! •.t:hen a friend on the committee recently spent a whok night- llntil 7 a.m.-n~kin~ care of that , Those who helped plan the .ia;.··s activities. <JS well a~ tlwse ·.l'ho wlll takt' a part m L'arrvmg them out. assistlnl! with traiftc dirE>rtion. re~tstration ami tlw 'ike. :.;houid :.!l't a pat nn thl' : 1{-11'1< ·;·~11S :-'Or! lit ;m·• )\·l'llll'l\: > ... :tH'OUrtu.!int.:. .\nd ~;:( ·~t '.r: ti ,lr••i)ai)ly :-<;i\' il 's .lisn a :n·,·rt · \!h,dttnu.l \Vh\t.·hrcaL\ 1<. ~),. ''\rt ,,t '.\1\;lt .. ur ,.,tH·r' -!;t\ ::·: 'l!lt'\:1 1 l~,. ~ili :ri'P~_1t

Page 4 Pro Continued f.rom page ~ There is something inherent in the nature of public education- the kind of education in which the fundamental questions are in one way or other settled by majority vote, by the tyranny .of the average--that conspires against the best, that tries to vein back the outstanding in~ dividual to make him one a£ the erowd. As a society, we distrust the intellectual. What presidential candidate has ever tried to present himself as an individual? Even Adlai {who in fact was no true intellectual) attempted to soften that per- ception of himself by making the hole in his shoe the symbol of his campaign,;,as if to say, \I'm really just a common Joe, despite Harvard and the Borden millions.'' The prejudice against superiority of intellect is a basic problem democracy has not successfully disarmed. We can certainly see the corrosive effects of this \democratic\ attitude in public education. Perhaps no sector in our society is as wasteful of money and human resources, as counterproductive as the giant folly of our public educational system. It's just chilling to contemplate. The kind of private college Union is should be aiming to serve the students who cannot be best served by the public institutions. Furthermore, it should be an alternative voice in definingreducation. It should not be bowing to the attitudes emanating fr:om Washington, or Albany for that matter. Dependency on public funds has severely compromised the spirit of private education in this country. We have tended to become indistinguishable from the public institution. We have lost our sense of special pur- pose. It has to be regained if we are not to resign ourselves to a second rate status. / OONOORJ)IEN818, AJ!ril 17, .1980 O ·e .e ·ore n How is a liberal arts college • different from a universtty? Aside from its not offering degrees in viticulture or mortuary science, you mean? Yes. That's a complicated subject we ceuld discuss for hours, but maybe we could start to sharpen the distinction by saying that the private college should recognize that it cannot and should not be trying to do all things. Union College right now reminds me of a bazaar with stalls all over the place but not much of an integrating notion of how these multifarious en- terprises fit together. The real question asked when a course is proposed is \Will it draw customers?\ Oh, that's putting it a bit extremely, but basically, that is the concern. We have a sizable collection ef courses, but no vision of a Union education. Net every question that merits investigation deserves a place in the curriculum. What does that mean? Let me invent a hypothetical course: The Perception of Voting Among Marshall Island Natives. It's an interesting subject, but by offering it as part of the curriculum, you are saying, in effect, that it's as vaulable a course of study as a course dealing with Marx, Durkheim, and Weber or, to remove the example to my own discipline, let's say that there is a cours..e offered that studies the local color movement in the nineteenth century. Again, an interesting subject, but would you want to say that it is equivalent to studying Cer- vantes and Dostoevsky? And . yet, for the purposes of Lib- Learn credit, or an English major, or the ..all-hallowed thirty-six courses that will get you a degree, our college makes no distinction between them. And somewhere it should, as part of its conception of itself as a liberal arts college. The word \college implies tying together; , ''university\ implies a housing together und~r one roof of all · sorts of disparate things. We should get away from the notion that it is perfectly alright for our curriculum to reflect, however faintly, the graduate ·school courses that our in- structors took. Instead, we have been regarding such in- corpqration as a sign of how advanced we a,re. ~ .... But didn't you tell me that the :g liberal arts colleges are dying? [t I regret to say this, but many of them deserve to die. If E they've forgotten what their ~ purpose is, if they really d'on't ~ know what they are about, if they. are m~rely goin~ .t~rough ~ motions mmdlessly 1m1tated if from the rec~nt past, they'll wither. Just like a tree limb that has jutted ou,t in a direction that has suddenly fallen into the shade. I think that the hard winter oUhe 1980's is going to produce a furious pruning. A lot ' delights are our portion in this short life. · lrealiZe this is difficult, but can you glve us a statement about where you think Union should be going, where its future lies in of dead limbs are going to fall. I guess ·I hope Union discovers where its vital interests lie and sends sap flowing so that it doesn't become a dead limb. I didn't mean t.o let the metaphor run quite that far hut . . . . such a bleak picture? Sut the situation really is serious. I aon't think our en- dowment is necessarily' proof aga~nst disaster. If you co11ple the drop in the number of ap- plicants we'll face soon-and that will certainly happen-with the fact that we are. in a section of the country that is not ex- periencing growth, and if you factor in the probability of some degree of national ecanomic recession, it could be a very, very dire time indeed. And if you look at the impoverished imagination we have shown in dealing with much more simply solved problems, well, it's enough to keep you awake nights, or to lapse into a \what the hell\ kind of fatalism and 1ust enjoy · what CJ,\.eature . ·\' ., Well, if you~re asking me to be a prophet ... Not a prophet but an idealist, in a sense: An idealist? In a sens.e, I feel much more like a prophet, like Cassandra. I've been seeing our mistakes ever since I carne , her~, and I've , not been silent, but it's all been futile. Does that sound ~rrogant? My students accuse me of being arrogant. So do my colleagues. Hell, maybe I am-if seeing the obvious and saying it plain without all that polite hemming and hawing and false self-effacement that puts people at easy adds up to arrogance. But to get back to your question, I would have to say that I'm pessimistic. If there's too mm~h of an ingrained bent toward optimism in me to predict catastrophe, there's also too much realism to be anything but pessimistic. .Oo you mean nothing can be done to change what you see as a bad situation? Oh, on the contrary. A hell of a lot could be done. If we looked upon this time as an op- portunity, it could be the best thing that ever happened to Union. It might not'be the best thing that ever happened to every member of the faculty, but in terms of the institution, it could be the blessing of the century. While other schools are floundering, while they are in disarray because of the '80's, we could drarp.atically improve our position. That's what's so pa~nful about being at Union. Damn it all, if we were smart, if we were street-wise, we could be a preeminent college in ten years. I know it. How? Look, the most. important thing in any operation is to make sure that the nuts and bolts are tight, not only so that the thing runs smoothly but also so that unexpected major problems don't develop. Union's machinery has been creaking and spilling leaks ever since I can remember. A really big outfit can figure that kind of inefficiency into its overheaq; but for a place like Union, which should be taking advantage of its smallness to avoid. such ineffectiveness, that sort of problem is crippling. Pieking the right guy for department chairman or as head of. a committee doesn't seem like much, but it can have a- very powerful effect on the quality of the place. E\7ery decision,. no- matter how small, has an amplified effect. But) realize that you want me to say something more than that. I can't be very specific. F~rst of all, because we haven't got time to get into particulars. Secondly, because it would be pointless to offend a lot. of people-beyond the extent to ·which I've already offended them, i mean. Third, because I haven't prepared a brief in anticipation of our interview. But I could mention a few things. I've already indicated that we should re-evaluate our curriculum. Not so much In terms of this ar that cou,rse, but in terms of a fundamental reappraisal of what we are doing and how we are doingit. I can think of three or four op- tions. Working them out is a political question-in the best _sense of the word. But we could markedly improve education here, to the extent that it would change the way we tbougllt and felt about ourselves and the way in which we were perceived from outside, and in the process cut our budget, in constant dollars, by a considerable amount--maybe a quarter million dollars a year. Seriously. Look, there's a lot of room for improvement. Perhqps no corner of our society, with the possible ex- ception of government, has been as unimaginative, as resistant to innovation, as education. And I'm talking about fundamental innovation, not rearrangements of the design of the icing like Comp Ed. or Lib. Learn. And the real ·adv.antage of such a fun- damental revision ·is not just economic. If we are going to sell Union, to prospective students, to potential donors, we have to have something to sell that we believe ift. More than N ott Memorial and the brook that bounds and the charms of the Old Dorp. It's quite clear that we will have t() cut some faculty during the next· decade. If we don't wa~t that to be just a lessening ofwhat we now have, we should be prep·aring for that even- tuality by redesigning the . machine. And yet, do you know of anyone here who's working on the problem? It's also rather obvious that our tenure procedures are in a mefj)s. Ten years ago, or whenever it was exactly, the trustees, or President Marth1, foresaw the problem. Their solution was· Draconian: a 60 percent 1iniit on tenure. But they invited the faculty to come up with a better solution. Clearly, if you are going to. hire faculty, you should be able to offer them ·a shot at a per- manent job. Well, we came up with the tenurability plan-at the last minute, of course, that's the Union tradition. The details would be worked out later. But what began as a idea to give the really outstanding candidate the possibility of tenure quickly degenerated-and Entemann was primarily to· blame-into an end run around the immediate - probl~ fin an origi: trustE pass. part. Now, junio the 1 proc• facul morj m:ini seen If \1 g~ne prob to 1 thre II .pres gr4;!~ plac syst priv .ma 1 eou Ma pro flat bee Arr. bra of da1 col No tha as Jol fot col re: as lig co th pa m w~ wi bt u pl tt 01 tc t~ u I' a l! tl s I r r t ]

~ f ) i [ r 1 t 1 I 'l t i .1 i :1 v :l s t e r . f r s s s g l, e p tl l- It 11 . ,, 0 e t tt e u g 't g d 1- e w g lt a r .e l, ir :o It .e I. e .o ,_ p tt s .s It e e y n n e I ALi problem. As a result, the very financial bind that had originally prompted the truste~s· move has come to pass. And perhaps the financial part of it is the least damage. Now, I fear, a lot of very good junior people are going to feel the pain for rather heedle~s procedures in the past. Yes, the faculty- is at fatilt, but even mme, I blame the ad- ministrators Who whould have seen what was going on.· If what you're sa;ying, in g~neral, is right, why have the problems been allowed to grow to the_ point where th~y're threateni!lg the college? I don't want to give the im- pression th~t Union is unique. In greater or lesser degree, this place reflects what has been systematically wnmg with the private liberal arts college-and .maybe with American higher education--for a long time. Maybe we've been too prosperous. We've grown flabby. In a way,. colleges have been ·cursed by the fact that American society has ·em- braced the notion, as an article of faith, that its · sons and daughters ha¥e to have a coJ}ege education. Of any sort. No questions asked about what that education means. As long as there is a bloody degree on Johnny's rump at the end of the four-year conveyor belt. The colleges didn't have to face the really tough questions. \Well as long as we keep a well- lighted shop, the customers will come.'' That's the attitude that's prevailed. Just keep passing out the degrees and the money will keep rolling in. But we're entering a time when that will no longer be true. For all but a very few colleges. And Union isn't quite in that privileged company. The rest oi this century will put a premium on boldness, on having the guts to re-create what has been taken for granted. To prosper, Union will have to change. And I'm not talking about becoming a training school for Holiday Inn management. It's just not in the .cards £or this place to succeed by .switching to a Business Administration em- phasis. Other, less expensive places can turn the vocational trick better than we. Does that mean you think we should trim away engineering? , No, not at all. Engineering is a rich part of Union's past. Sure, it's a little different from other parts of the campus, but it's in no way incompatible. Look, I'm not saying every Union student should have the same kind of education as every other kind of Union student. . That's a mistake that, in part at least, is reflected by muddle- headed · approaches Uke .. Lib. Learn. We should be asking ourselves how the different parts of this campus can enrich each other. But the con- tributions don't have to be the same in every instance. If you're advocating steering clear of a vocational orien- tation, aren't you preaching an ivory tower approach?. You use the term \ivory tower\ as thoUgh it were a terrible thing, but ideally,. the college should be an ivory tower. Many primitive societies-and some that lll.ay be, in a sense, more advanced- - set aside a period in a person's life for the disengagement of that person from society. Usually, it's a period between childhood and the full responsibilities of adulthood. That person is· then called upon to reflect on himself and on his relationship to the tribe, to the clan, to the nation. I think it is important for stud~nts, broUght up in homes where given values C!Ol!!OO_RDIENS!~, April 1\'1 1980 .- era t e uca 10n are transmitted with mother's milk (or whatever canned chetnical crap we serve our children nowadays) to 'be able to step . back, to ·re-examine from a further perspective. To · some ·extent, the four-year college period in our society serves that function. The student is out from the parental umbrella and the .kinds of shelter fr,otn qUestioning that society, the day--to-day routine ef surviving and heaping up stores, spreads over us. The student should be challenged to think things ~new. Do you believe in capitalism? Why? Have you ever probed its tenets? 'If you haven't, you're a sucker for the first line of nonsense tossed at you. Are you a Catholic? Why do you believe hi the ·dogma of the Virgin Birth? You :/nay lose a lot of Catholics as a result of that process, but the ones you wind up with at the end wi:ll have a firmer sense of who they are, be better equipped to deal with the consternations they'll face. But you see, education hasn't been functioning that way for a long time. The principle of the conveyor belt has won out. Certainly since the Second World War, everything in American society has been working to break down that beneficial isolation of the college from society. The government looks to academe . . to make decisions that might cause a ruckus. Is it any wonder that colleges are in a desperate fix? You know, I would ltke to see us hire as our new vice president s9meone with ab~ solutely no previous ad-, ministrative experience. I'd make that a precondition. But that's heresy, you see. We've done so brilliantly well by following the conventional - procedure. Like the guy in the automobile ad . who keeps buying the same brand of car every three years because the old car keeps breaking down. But Union istoo insecure to do something like what I've suggested. It would never take the .. risk. Princeton picked Goheen out of its Classics Department when he was an assistant professor. Dartmouth .,picked Kemeny, who was no administrator. But we'll go ·for someone else's deadwood. Bet ori it. Could we talk.about the students at Union? About how they affect the place from your view as a teacher? Well, if there's a bright part of the picture, it's the students. I was just talking to a colleague the other day, who's rather bitter about the way he's been treated; about the dismal financial prospects he faces in to solve its problems. When it needs people to run its depart- men.ts, it reaches into the un.iversities. And as a result,. the academics have been com- promised, subjected to the same influences as everyl5ody ·else. Big business has done the ,_ same thing. ·It has used the ~ · - universities like a part of its ~~ corporate structure. It's been a a: very unhealthy promiscuity. E Our intelligentsia has been 5 seduced. It's almost disgusting z the way academe has pande~eed ~ , itself. There is, or should be, honor -t in an academic life. almost by 5: definition, academic inquiry has to be somewhat reclusive. Not to ignore what's going on in the world but to be aware of b~ing different. Not better, different. It means the op- portunity to re-examine and to challenge conventional wisdom. The academy depends on non- conformity. Unfortunately, we seem not to understand that in our society. I'm not saying the U.S. is the only country with this problem. It's true world~wide- and nowhere more terribly than in those Marxist countries some of my colleagues so stupidly admire. The loss of the ivory tower has done great injury to education. Processing people towards degrees is just foolish. We've made a fetish of the epiphenomena. If there's a person who can do a job, why not hire that person on the strength of that. Why put all the stress on a bunch of initials instead of what the initials are supposed to stand for? And academe, having fostered that idiocy, becomes its victim. Just look at what we do when we hire an ad• ministrator at Union. What is the first thing we do? We screen out everybody who has not had experience, a set of titles, ac- tually. Instead of a!;king, \What ideas do you have? What are your dreams?\ No, those would be too embarrassing questions to ask. And so :we wind up with somebody who was assistant this or associate that in ad- ministration. Somebody who .. fled from the classroom or library and has learned sur- vival tactics. Somebody who is looking toward the next rung up the ladder and knows it pays not to provide a decent life for family, about the non- sense that's come out of the C.O.F. in regard to rewarding, or not rewarding, someone for doing his job well. He was saying that what the college deserved was for him to coast, to do the absolute minimmn. But then he added, \But they've got you, because they know you won't let your students down.'' I know exactly how he feels. It pains me to think of how much eagerness to learn is allowed to go to waste. Don't inisun- derstand; I'm not saying a student can't get every bit as' good an education at Union as elsewhere. In fact, for many students, the opportWlities here are greater. But there's a lassitude that filters through Union that does damage to the collective enterprise. You know, this is not a very hard place to get \through. It doesn't demand very mueh of you. I think every student should he scrambling for · time for four years. That's healthy. The feeling that your cup is always running over, that you've got to make choices you'd rather not have to make. To cut this ')Ut and cut that because there'~ so much. The dismaying thought that, gee, there's always too much more out there that you can't manage to . grasp. That should be the nature of college. With that discontent goes a certain degvee of excitement. I don't find intellectual ex.;. citement among very many students. When I do find it, it's a moment of life in an otherwise sorry experience. Unf.or~ tunately, the mood most students exude is one of \What do I have to do to get through this course, to get a certain grade-which is almost always . an A or anA- or, at worst, a B-. It's killing to anyone who takes this profession seriously, who feets passionately about the life of the mind. Our grading structure is utterly ridiculous. Frankly, it makes me feel like a charlatan, and I don't like that feeling, every time I Have to give grades. I just don't know what these numbers or letters mean, and nobody wants to tell me. I've been raising the question for a long time. A few years back, I realized that my grading matrix was out of whack with the rest of the place, so I c;alled the Registrar and asked for a breakdown, the percentages of the various grades given, and he gave them to me. I was teaching the film course that term; I felt it was a .representative cross-section of the college, so I told the class that I would scale the grades to be inprecise conformity to what was given college-wide. I had to go down into the C+'s to fill my self-imposed quota of A's. I don't understand. Well, in my head, I have an idea of what an A performance is, what's a B, and so forth- from the antediluvian time when I went to college. So on the students' papers exams, I gave my regular grades, and then I kicked them up to match the college distribution. I didn't feel there was anything inherently terrible about that. What does an A mean at Union but what Union recognizes as an A? It's defined by practice. there's no standard A written in Plato's heaven. But, boy, the wringing of hands that produced. People said to me, \I wish you wouldn't do this; it's dishonest.\ Well, what the hell is dishonest about it? I believed I was very honest in saying openly what I was doing. But in the end, I didn't stick to the practice. After that course, I mean. I just felt clarruny about the whole thing- But if I'd been forced to do it, if Union said, \An A represents such and such level of achievement,\ I would }}ave felt better about it. But I do grade more leniently than I used to. I think I've kicked up my grades a good balf point. I. really wish we ·could get ~away from grades altogether. '-To return to the pure in- tellectual interchange between the student's ·mind and the teacher's. As there is at Reed College. But I'm enough of a cynic to know that it wouldn't work here.. It's not part of the geist of the place. Not as it presently is, anway. But I do think we have to have some sense of what these various grades, that we invest, sanctimoniously with such importance that we carry them out to the third decimal place with such divine assumptions of precision, we have to have some generally agreed upon notion of what the§e symbols symbolize. We could say. for example, that a c,· to choose one arbitrarily, represents an average per- formance at Union, or a B or whatever. By averaging per- formance we would mean that, in an average class, the middle 30 percent would be getting that average grade; that a B, let's say, represented f.!D above average performance, the next higher 20 percent-and so forth. Not every course, to be sure, would have a perfect break- down, but we could agree that a faculty member who con- sistently goes above or below the norms should be called in and asked to explain his reasons. If that kind of subtle guidance didn't- work, then I think the College has the right to force that instructor to rank his students and to impose its own grades. That's no violation of academic freedom. The College has a stake in insuring that its grades are, finally, its grades. But what is an average paper? Are you speaking statistically or qualitatively? When I hear a colleague talking to a student or to me and saying, \This is terrible. This paper has no organization. It says nothing. The writing is execrable\-and then, after all this, putting a B+ or a B on the paper, I feel like rushing over to Betty Wemple and changing all my grades. No wonder students think there is a Nichols paper and a Gado paper and a whosits paper. Look, the standards of good writing apply across the board. If we don't make an effort to communicate the relative degree of achievement, we promote cynicism and, worse, undermine our purpose- which is to teach students to write effective prose. Don't you think that by speaking openly about things like this, or maybe by bringing them up before the EPC instead of just talking about them in your office, that you could get the faculty to make changes? Your naiv~te is touching. It's beautiful and sad. Look, to make changes here-or maybe ·most anywhere--you don't propose and argue and debate the logic of your ideas. Colleges don't work that way. Faculties are collections of people who get nervous when there's any \unpleasantness\ -and unpleas· antness means proposing anything that everyone hasn't mystically agreed upon in advance. A college, un- fortunately, is a sink of con- formity-just the opposite of what it should be. Show con- viction and you're called abrasive or arrogant; show passion and you're no gen- tllWlan. Th.e few colleagues I've known who have fought for what they believed-! mean, really fought-have all wound up on the outside. Colleges don't like controversy. And since any idea that offends the tribal super- stitipnS, no matter how bankrupt they may be, is controversial, the agents of potential change are squeezed aside. A college wants safety-it venerates safe men. I don't delude myself that I'm doing the college any good by speaking for the record this way. Certainly, I know I'm not doing myself any good. Of those who read thiS, quite a few will feel that I shouldn't be critical. There really is a lot of hostility toward someone who isn't constantly mouthing platitudinous yea-saying. Showing your concern by speaking honestly, by calling for a re-examination of con- ventional ways, means you're not a team player. Sinclair Lewis's Zenith is not as far from academe as you might think. Who's the next candidate.for one of these interviews?

' I ..,... .... __. Page 6 OONOOBDIENSIS, April 17, 1980 arts Chapin Concert A Success by ROBERT FOX Harry and Torn Chapin performed bef.ore a capacity crowd at Proctors Theat:re this past Sunday night. Sponsored by Phi Sigma Kappa, the concert was to benefit World Hunger, and the result was three hours of pure en- tertainment. On stage, Harry and Torn complement each other well. Harry is a per- sonable veteran, his energy seems to be carefully conserved for songwriting and storytelling. Tom is quite versatile. He plays guitar .and sixstring banjo, he whistles and hums beautiful melodies, an~ his voice commands a much wider range than Harry's ranging from a throaty baritone to an impressive soprano. They opened with a number called \Crooked Cop,\ and received friendly applause upon inserting the word \Union\ into one of the lines. Harry sang his favorite song second, but not before telling a little story about it. It seems that he wrote \Story of a Life\ on a barf bag while riding in a charter plane that was being flown by an in- toxicated pilot. Chapin's songwriting genius showed .itself in \Mr. Tanner.'' After reading a short, negative, New York Times review of a singer. Harry made up a story about the singer's life. The 1·esult is a captivating tale about a true music lover who didn't make it professionally. It's a tremen- dous song, and one of my favorites. IFI all, the Chapins sang twenty-four songs. However, they didn't sing them all alone. I was impressed by the amount of audien\ce participation, or \precipitation\ as Harry caHs it. At one point, the audience was singing four-part harmony. Harry complimented the male singers in the crowd, saying ''You guys were really honking!\ In addition to the expected biggies, \Taxi \Cats in the Cradle,\ \W-0-L-D etc., Harry and Tom played many other fine songs: 1 'I Wanna Learn a Love Song,\ in which . Harry tells'how he met his wife; \If l\ily Mary Were Here\ ; the hutnorous \30 Pounds of Bananas,\ to- which there are four endings; and a song about education, the name ·of which I .did not catch, but the lyrics caught me: \Flowers are red, young man. Green leaves are green. There is no need to see flowers any other way than the w~ they always have been seen.\ The more moving parts of the show were during \Taxi when the audience sang along softly, and when Harry moved upstage without a microphone, hands in The Chapin brothers in action. pockets·, to sing about ''Mail- order Annie.\ The audience was so quiet you could hear '!'om's - fingers move as he strUIIll'fled softly in the bacl\gr.ound.· It was obvious to me, coming fram a family of boys, that they were' brothers: the way they talked and laughed together, the way Tom chided -Harry when the latter started to repeat a verse they had just finished. Neither one could hav!'l done it alone. Harry gave us his views oil Carter's anti-inflationary budget cuts, and Tom gave us a throaty ''rrumpapum,\ and then laughed ''that's the band.\ - lture l - In short, it was a great con- cert. I have only heard positive comments from others who went. I would not hesitate to see Harry Chapin again, and if I do, I hope he plays with Tom because the two are a fantastic pair. Harry will be performing with his band this summer at the Saratoga Performing Arts Center. If you go to see him, I can guarantee you two things. First, you will - help World Hunger, a cause to whiCh Chapin is extremely dedicated, and second, you will hear en- tertaining stories and great music. Twisted Terms by Chris Dratch Mitch's Maze N EVfiJ __ -- (f)ECQjE ____ _ /\\YOCED--~-- EN~S6fDU-----· -- S U YAwRHD _____ -=_ __ Qrst'\®®s ---~--­ BBACTE:A --.------.- ,, 00000 0000 VISITING POETS READINGS AND WORKSHOPS April. 21, Monday- John ~nterecker 4:30-reading-Strauss Lounge 8:00-· talk on :\The Biographer as Liar\-Strauss lounge April 25., Friday- Denise L evertov 3:3Q,_cJiscussion in Strauss Lounge • 8:00-reading in Strauss -lounge with coffee to follow ' May 22, Thursday-John Stallworthy 3:30-workshop/discussion in Strauss Lounge 8 :00-reading Admission :FREE!! Women's Week Friday Night Old Chapel • 1n 1st Act Karen Weisgerber 2nd Act Risa Hunter & Andrea Gluck M.C. Amy Perlin incidentals linda lonher One Show Only 9:00p.m. --- art 'T1 byEl Constru of Rober Eugene Hairy All world wl'l tender e1 juxtapose and coal bowels o! and his f brute ph coal to Even in O'Neill''S variety .example, and the ~ laments ships am on a sail other I situation engine disgust speeche~ Comrad1 we'll diE From of ScenE II, whicl air and l deck. charact Mildred owns tl aunt. T not onl-s feel f< Mildre toward: ·tempts b 11 s f 4-1 4-2 5 ' -,: s-· 5- 5-:

r ) t ' [ - , OONdGRDIE]f_SIS, April11, 1980 Page 7 arts culture - 'The Hairy Ape' At Union Uttle Women Cry little WOIIlen, cry that one of yours is lost. by ED HORSTMANN Constructed around the story of Robert Smith (\Yank\),. eugene O'Neill's play, The fJairy Ape, brings us into a world where brute fo..-:ce and tender emotic;m are carefully juxtaposea. Immersed in heat and coal dust, deep in the bowels of a steamship, Yank and fiis fellow stokers employ brute physical power to feed coal to the smp's furm~ces. Even in this hell, however, O'Neill''s characters represent a variety of qualities. F,or . example, .Paddy, art Iris1unan and the eldest on Yank's shift, laments the days of sailing ships and the fresh salt breezes on a sailor's face. Long, on the other hand, despi$eS his situation as a slave to a ship's engine and articulates his disgust through soapbox speecheS: \we lives in 'ell; Comrades - ;md right enough we'll die in it\. From the oppressive setting of Scene I, we move into Scene II, which takes place. in the open air and full sunlight of the ship's deck. Here the central characters are· two women: Mildred Douglas (whose father owns the steamship) and her aunt. Their discussion reveals not only the mutual disgust. they feel for one another, but Mildred's tainted attitude towards the poor (her \at- . tempts to discover how the other half lives\). Unlike her niece; the aunt does not feign any interest in the poor. Fur- thermore, she sees in Mildred's attraction to the poor - specifically, the latter's desire to observe the stokers ·a kind .of sexual attraction for inffividuals whom she looks upon as beasts. And tht:l scene does, in fact, end With a bitter exchange between the two women at the end of which the aunt accuses Mildred .of being a \poser\. It is in Scene III that we find the critical ::1cti()n of the play. Here Mildred descends into the .sooty cage of Yank's domain . And wlien she confr()nts Yank who is immel'\sed in his work, dirty and stripped to the waist - she is .horrified by his presence: \Take me away! Oh, the filthy beast!\. Yank, to(), is stunned by thfs frail, ghost-like being who has in some wa~s violated his territory. Enraged by the label of \beast\ whic}l Mildred applies to him, Yank is also deeply hurt: a burt which he does not understand. In Scene IV, then, Yank is no longer depicted as a superhuman worker, but as a man who is troubled ovel.'\ tile nature of his existence. Disturbed by the indignation he suffered as a result gf Mildred's statement, he wonders if the stokehole is rea}ly ''where he belongs\. Scene V contains the por- trayal of Long and Yank as they walk along Fifth Avenue in New Earth Day 1980 · April 22 CELEBRATE THE EARTH ARISE WITH THE SUN Join the Environmentol AU iance in Library field at 5;45 Breakfast will be served i It will be an eye-opening experience .WRUC ) 90.9 f m. s I ere o Starting tliis Saturday night at 10, WRUC will be airing special concerts and interviews with major artists. The following is a tentative schedule of concerts. Stay tuned to WR l)C for further details. 4-19 --Joe Jackson 4-26 --A Jazz Retrospective featuring John Coltrane, Rasann Rolland Kirk, Herbie Mann, Duke Ellington, and others from the Bethlehem label. 5-3 --Rockpile 'featuring Dave Edmund!? and Nick Lowe. 5-10 --David Bowie 5-17 --The Todd Rundgren Rad.io Show 5-24 --Robert Gordon• 6 Rms Riv Vu By Bob Randall Performance Dates: May 6·10 Tickets on sale soon! York City; here Long ridicules the a.rtifacts of an upper class world while Yank expresses a certain ''naive regard\ for the immense wealth present in the store windows. But they do not remain detached from this \bleedin' private lane\ for long. For the two stokers confront a group of Upper class chur- chgoers who literally wear masks, make statements in bland tones, and exhibit no regard for the e\'istence .of Long and Yan:k. Sensing that Yank: wishes to cabse trouble, Long leaves his partner to deal With the pious automatons. Although Yank fails to produce any anger in these zombies, even through physical force, he succeeds. in drawing the attention of the police; is bullied by them; and is subsequently carried off to jail- and the final two scenes of The Hairy Ape. Scenes VI, VII, and VITI contain Yank's experiences in jail, an Industrial Worker's of the World headquarters, and a zoo. In the · first two settings Yank suffers rejection from fellow prisoners and union members respectively. Looking t6 a policeman for guidance (\Where do I go from here?\) ' the latter replies: \Go to hell\. By the play's final scene Yank is without human com- panionship. And his response to the rejection and confusion which he has suffered throughout tbe course of the drama is to confront the very Wipe tears into tQe clean, dainty hankee Frilled in lace that will be lost in the wash. Wipe those eyes that have never seen And hope one day to be as blest as she. Dance with your husbands and lay in the night Day after day-as if it were right. To uncouple with fate and find yourself now Could take you to where She flies and show you how. To break from the sheltering wing that Smothers you slowly Might be too much for you, little women. And yow- eyes saw her radiant beauty As she lay stone cold aut missed the clean cuts on her wrist- Those hands were so bold. Those which let what you call life Seep slowly out to release the soul . So cry little women-one of yours is lost Into a world where she may finally Be found. beast he was compared with early in the play: a gorilla. As a result of his death at the hands of this powerful animal Yank maintains the sense he has of himself as a man who would never physically succumb to another human being. Yank finally dies with the same un- flinching attitude that characterized his working days in a ship's stokehole. The Hairy Ape deals primarily with the powerful ' interaction of individuals who struggle under the oppression of a mechanized society. And Yank represents an individual both comfortable in ·the -Anonymous drudgery of physical labor and yet radically 'insecure of his relationship with the world outside the stokehOle. His ex- perience gives us some idea of the tragic situation which each person encounters in an in- dustrial world as he gropes for his place among his fellow man, and not machines. There will be a special Accepted Candidates Day per- formance this Saturday, at 3:30 p.m. Regular performances of The Hairy Ape will be at 8 p.m. from April 24-27. Tickets are on sale each day at the Nott Memorial from 1 - 5 p.m. Blue. Skies Over Union by D. BOOTH. When people think of ·wine, women, and song, they im- mediately think of a picnic. Spring at Union lends itself magnificently to this afternoon and dusky evening occupation. What intensity to speed along country roads in a convertible MG, your hair blowing in the breeze and the sweet taste of wine and kisses on your tongue. Picnicing from Union is relatively easy. My personal favorite is Lake Galway, a small and very intimate lake about , a half hour north of Union. The sun shimmers across the water and a few sailboats glide with easy gn~ce along its shoi'es. These shores are particularly private, covered with small secluded bowers of blossoming trees, and several small brooks which flow swiftly into the lake. Other favorites for picnicing are Lake George and some of the more secluded glens in the mountains beyond Scotia. Lake Galway and Lake George are nice because they offer the advantages of water sport~ such as canoeing and sailing. Plenty of wine and ice- cold beer and some sun-tan oil rubbed into the skin make a day on the water relaxing. There is also swimming, although at this season the water is colder than can be endured by humans; except perhaps for a quick dunking. Other activities in- clude FriSbee, ...softball, and volleyball. But the central feature of any picnic is obviously the food. Imagine opening an old fashioned picnic basket to find thin slices of cold turkey, white meat alternating with dark meat (personally, I've always preferred a thick slice of leg), sweet and sour dills, a fresh loaf of bread, condiments, and, to finish off, an e;xtra cold bottle of wine, preferably white and sweet, and fresh strawberries. The final ingredient to this menu is good companionship. Some frisbee tossing in the afternoon, some frolicing in the grass, and a few stolen kisses mark the beginning of an en- ' joyable day. And when evening closes in~ and the blankets are drawn tighter, and the stars are brighter ... But I am certain at this point · that there .is room for personal improvision at this point, Suffice to say that picnicing, with all its accompanying ac- tivities, is another springtime activity which Union enjoys throughout the spring. One of the most important things to Attention I The Union College Yearbook, The Gamet, has a new full color poster of the Nott. We will be selling it (to raise money)~ and yearbook subscriptions all week· ' in front of Camegie. remember is that a p1emc should be ;simple. Be ·carefree and windswept and ready for anything. Bring a guitar; play some Simon and Garfunkel. Most of all, be willing to do something new · Walking barefoot in high grass, hand in hand, is not trite nor corny if one enjoys it. Also, don't let rain spoil a planned picnic. The best way to avoid rain is to plan what day the picnic is to be held on far in advance, then go one day earlier, thus missing the shower which invariably appears at all planned picnics. If it does rain, take shelter beneath some dry pines, taking care to snuggle -together. (Next week: moonlight nights in Jackson's Gardens, and Daquiri~) ~ Dial • b asummerJO: 800·331·1000 Work as a Manpower temporary. Flexible schedule~. Good pay. Assignments available in your college town or hometown. Please call, toll free. ~MANONER· ~ TE~Af!:! SERVICES

Pa_ge_ 8 OONCORDIENSIS. Apri~ 17~ 1980 LJ~/M_ ~,-- Looking -Back:· Won1en And Brothers· Students· enjoy infor~al brunch with women alumnae. Women At Union 1970 NOTE: The following in- terview, which took place. in 1970 with .the then Dean of Students Malloy and Assistant Dean of Students Beam ap- peared in the Freshman Record for the Class of 1974. This was the first co-ed class to enter Union, and the interview provides some information on the questions and opinions. that existed regarding co.-education. Record: In its l76th year, Union will undergo a fun- damental change with the admission of its first coed ... Could you comment in general on the dynamic effect that the presence of girls at Union will have on the existing social atmosphere? . Beam: Basically the girls are more socially minded than men. They look for a more viable sort of a social life as far as their whole college career goes. They are interested in activities and to them it's very, very im- portant that they have something going on. Record: Dean Malloy, y_gu've had a chance to see what Union - is like as an all-male school. Can you make any predictions about the college's reaction to the coeds? Malloy: One thing we should emphasize is that we shouldn't expect miracles this year. First, the nwnber .of girls coming is very small. You've seen the situation at Yale and Princeton where the girls are greatly outnumbered. It's going to create some very good situations. There will be a normal atmosphere where girls are in the classroom and walking with boys to class. It's not just a big weekend type of thing where a dating situation exists. I hope a lot m<>re casual exchanges between men anp women as students occur so that they will accept things other than just the straight weekend social event. For some male students, there will 'be tension because there will not be enough girls available to date. We will still have to invite -girls from other colleges: Sometimes these look like more desirable dates than the girls on campus. One girl might feel frustrated because she sees her roommate or somebod~ down the hall very popular, while she is treated casually as just another student. Some girls might be caught up in a world of social activity, It's possible for a girl to have a date every night with a different fellow probably for the whole term. I look for healthier social activities in day-tO-day, \non-date\ dates, the kind of thing where you meet a girl for a cup of coffee, maybe by design, maybe not; you just sit down and talk together. In the classroom it- self, a lot has been made of the women's point of view, and I don't want that to be overem- phasized. Girls are students, too, and -they'll have certain points of view. I hope we don't stereotype them. The majors Continued ou page' 9 by :P AULGROSSIVIAN Women have begun their second decade at Union, ten years of sharing in both the academic and extra-curricular activities on the previously all- male campus. In honor · of Women's Week, this week LOOKING BACK has focused on the interaction between two of Union's institutions: the age- old institution of \The Fraternity Party'' and the not- So\age-oldinstftution of Women on' campus. Interestingly enough, Union women have not changed their opinions of the f:tat parties too drastically since 19.70. Despite the liberation and increasing agressiveness of women in the past ten years, the majority of Union women still find £rat parties generally too noisy, crowded,. and too rowdy a .situation to meet people in. The reprinted article below was -written by women from the first women's class here-at Union. To s·ee just how much views have changed (or haven't changed) the opinions of -several Union women were recently solicited and included at the end .of the article. Reprinted Article from CONCORDIENSIS, Oct. 23, 1970 \ Two Freshmen Girls Discuss Attitudes Toward Fraternities Rushing Parties by JUDY STEINBACH and NINA WOLFF As the traditional rushing seas<>n returns to Union, the 15 fraternities on Campus are busy inviting freshmen to their houses. The fact is that a nuniber of coeds have not taken ....-advantage of this opportunity to attend the various fraternity functions. Opinions. of several girls explain why. ''One of the reasons I came to Union was because it had no sororities. I just don't like the whole idea of . the 'Greek System','' explained Joan Levinson, '74. \I don't~go to the fraternity parties because I just don't like that sort of thing,\ stated Cheryl Kevish, '74. \I prefer to .go to parties with people I know because I think I can have a much better tirqe than with a room full of strangel's. Of course, I realize that l couldn't know everyone at a frat party, but this is just my personal opinion.\ A third girl said that she prefers to meet people in a less affected atmosphere than is present at frats. \Fraternity parties seem almost like cattle shows in which the prize-steers are awarded free beer.\ Thi:&' situation is not necessarily a case of pre-trial judgment; most girls have attended at least one fraternity function, whether it be a post- game get-together, a cocktail party, or a quiet evening of folk singing. However~ unfavorable reactions to these have put a damper on future attendances. One such disappointed co-ed explained that she didn't enjoy the parties because \nobody talked to anyone else until they were too drunk to make any sense at all!\ Another got the impression that the brothers were deliberately trying to get the girls highl Betsy Weller, '74 found that \The parties are a lot more fun if you go with a member of the frat orif you know many people Continued on page 9 W a manhood: Remembrances And Reflections by ANDREA BOWERS , and .JAMIE FORTON I can remember my mother impressing upon me, the im- portance of a clean butter dish on the table, and somehow feeling as though I, myself, would carry the burden of all the dirty butter dishEJs, for the rest of my life. When I was 10, I left with my brothers and my father to the soft ball field to hit flies and grounders. The sun -was so hot and we were all sweating - my brothers and my father peeled off their shirts. My inclination , was to do the same, yet instead, there was a hesitation in me which I did not understand. I suddenly felt that I :was dif- ferent from these three others that were of my very own blood - forJ asked permission to remove my shirt - and was granted it. Now, I cry for the young girl who could no longer merely respond to the summer heat as her brothers could. We were moving, The men moved the piano. We were to make lasagna, for when they returned. I asked for football pants for Some students may wonder ages. We also want to create a what the purpose of Women's unity of women by acting a'S a Week-or even the Women's co:mnion backbone to them, and Network--is. Women's Week by presenting programs that typifies the goals ofthe Network hopefully include everyone. But and makes them visible to all. perhaps the greatest goal gf the We are actively involved in week is to celebrate. 1980 marks developing an awareness of the loth year of women at today's women ( an<l yes, men Union-and we've come quite a . too) as a result of the \Women's long way. It is a time for all to Movement\. Indeed, this unite and celebrate the lO·year movement has had profound Union of women and men. effects on women and men of all Christmas. And I got them. They were red with little white stripes - football pants none- the-less. And I loved them - until I discovered that they were missing the hip padding. You really do devour those books. don't you? Maybe if I get your brothers some of the Hardy Boys, I'll get them to crack a book. Ah well, different talents I guess . . . \ \There's something really distasteful apout a lady with a cigarette hanging on her lip.\ I wish you'd cry with me so I wouldn't feel as though 1 were indulging. I'm going to run so far and fQr so long that I shall amaze you. Alinost as though l were looking for the \that's incredible for ... , well, you know ... a girl- you know what I mean.\ But then, it is no longer such a great ft;lat to you, for you have decided that I am aggressive. And I am running alone. Soon I am !ilfraid of myself and my body says to me, \See and for that you shall no longer bleed • you shall not · find your womaness in yom· own body .. not even once in 30 days.\ But no . . . I am. ·· As children, we always eame to our mother, because she was there, waiting. In the water, she held us by the stomach, sup- ported us. and taught us how to . move our arms and legs together, in harmony. .She showed us how to ·stay afloat. Later, when we were 14 and 15, she impressed upon us the importance of / being in- dependent, the importance of a college education and our overall freedom as women. At times, I think she li-ved through us, vicariously. She was an artist who stopped painting and drawing in order to bear children, not one or two, but six. She was never hostile.or bitter ..... always loving.-Where does that leave me as her child? Con- fused. I am sher in many ways. It is too simple to speak only ·of the oppresion of women, to speak pf rising together and raising a women's con- sciousness, to fight for those verbal abstractions, freedom and equality. In reality; in the. hearts, minds and memories of each woman and man of our generation, the issue and the images that comprise our stand or non~stand on the issue are far more complex. Perhaps, in the. confusion, at times, one is most honest not to take a stand, but rather to be· searching for a new stand, c-onstantly. . There \vere times when I felt oppressed, ov-erwhelmingly so, as an adolescent. But - you see, when it was happening, it was not oppression - that word was not in my vocabulary. It was a sensation of loss, of confusion, · of futile punishment, punish- ment for what I was. t was a \tomboy\ when I was younger. Then, suddenly in eithth and nintli grade, my teachers punished me for wearing sloppy clothing or playing in the .mud with the boys, because neither were \ladylike.\ For me, that transition into knowledge was painful. There was a loss of innocence when I recognized that set structures, institutions, decisions already made, would affect me and in fact control me. But, let me point · out . · that I went to a Catholic school. Perhaps, that makes the .initiation more drastic for me. That is my point - I think. The peculiarities and degrees of oppression .or non- oppression are there, for each one of us as they are also in our memories. My mother carried, gave birth to, and nursed six children; because she was Catholic. The objection to birth control and the force of the _ Catholic Church is no longer a ·part of my reality. Yet my mother, her influence and mY memories of her, still are a reality. And Yours?

to vera! to no e the Joan t like to know a a • Of sonal she less is not have post- f folk rable a co-ed they any the get that efun the ge 9 · so, was was was a ion, unish- a and chers into There I in me to a , that more non- in our six was the a my rnY a CONOQRDIENSIS. April ir~ 1980 Pag~ 9 My GrandJ:nother My grandmother's hunched figure :slides slowly down. the hall draped in a blue bathrobe , with her silver hair gleaming in the palEl light. In her .room, the television is on, close to the couch with the volume turned Up. · ·. Every movement is watched as the grey image~ flicker across the serene~ It is a John Wayne movie, or \Gunsmoke or \Dragnet''. liked the tough. guys. Tomorrow will bring more toast and tea on the breakfast tray my mother makes up. More mail, her hometown newspapers or a letter from Uncle Ed. For now, a glass of wine to sleep well, a quick visit.frOinone of us for a laSt-good night. or a piece of news, then into bed. Bathed in the yellow-white light of the bedside lamp she reads from a well wor~ prayer book until she turns out the light for sleep. In the darkness her eyes close and search for images that are long gone. - The old neighborh()od and the faces that she knew there. The working times, the hard times, and the children. Now she is a permanent guest in our house. Watching as she becomes a child and my mother tends to her needs and comforts her pains. The past and present link only in photographs and letters in the mail. There were no promises from time so there is no sadness as it slips by. Love is here and sleep is sweet, ~-Ellen Mills 1979 Looking Back. • • Continued from page 8 there.\ Snubbing of the fraternities is by no means practiced by all Union coeds. Ruth Morton '74, points out some advantages. \I think that going to frat parties is an excellent way of meeting more people. Besides the food (and drinks!) are much better than at West!\ Based on the opinions presented in the reprinted article, the Union fraternities seemed to have some difficulty appealing to the coeds of the time. In an effort to see just how much things have changed over the pastten years, some present Union coeds were recently asked for their opinions ·of fraternity parties. While there I.. .!! a; C) were a fe-w positive feelings volunteered by the present Union women, the opinions remained mostly negative, the most frequent complaints being overcrowding, noise and ex- cessive \drunken rowdiness\ The opinions of many of the girls are expressed in the following quote from one Union girl outside the pizza place,\ I hate frat parties. It's like a meat market and is a very unproductive way of meeting new people. They're ahnost a.lways too crowded, and the brothers usually get crude, rude and rowdy.\ Another girl said, ''Frat parties are boring and over- crowded. The only reason a gir 1 would go to a frat party is to get picked up.'' (This girl also Continued on page 13 Members of the Women's NetVJork proudly display the shirts they are selling. . Women At Union- 1970 Continued from page 8 they've chosen will tend to break some of the stereotypes that we've had so far. ·. Beam·: We are concerned that the girls are going to be under pressure to form a dating relationship when they actually would like to meet in groups and talk informally and just get to know the other gals and guys on campus. r ' don't think they should be forced into a one-to- one relationship when there are so many people on campus that they can meet and S() many different kinds of things going on. Malloy: As the black students have said that they don't want to be a curiosity on campus, we're sure the coeds will feel the same. They'd like attention, but they don't want to be a sideshow. Record: What about parietals for the girls? Beam: They're going to take care of it the same way that men do when they come on campus. After they are here a week or so, they may vote on their visiting hours by living · unit. Malloy: This is where we've both been surprised: that male students assume that there will be different parietals and curfews for the girls. It bothers me that we'd have this double standard. I feel that girls should set their own. If they want to have men restricted from their floors at certain hours, I .say fine and more power to them. This doesn't mean that security won't be different. Just by -the nature of things, some of their buildings will be locked.. This doesn't mean that parietal hours will be changed; this just means that you'll have to gain. admission by being a guest of a resident of that building. It's a m~tter of security, not of controlling parietals. We know that there are things that-they will want that we haven't anticipated or maybe we shouldn't set for them: they should bring it out for them- selves. There's going to be some trial and error for a few years. I often wonder if this first group of girls is representative of all freshman women; five years from now they may be a dif- ferent type. I wonder if these are the pioneering type who are willing to go into a situation like this. Record: Is North going to provide enough room for girls in two years? Beam: It will house about 76 people. We anticipate 100 women will be entering in the freshman class each year. Malloy: Don't forget that girls' colleges have attrition from girls leaving to get married. We should be at- tracting some transfer students who are coming because they are following their-husbands in their first jobs and they want to complete their education. Beam: Plus, others may wish to live off-campus, as the men do when they are up- perclassmen, and they'll be participating in the lottery in the same way. Record: What type of majors are the girls interested in? Beam: There were 82 enrolled in Center 1; I would say that the English and language majors predominate. Remember quite ·'a few of the men and women may not know about sociology and anthropology or economics; they may never have had any exposure to it. There were 45 in Center 2 with the majority being ill biology and math. Quite a few women were uncommitted. Malloy: Fortunately with our program there's enough flexibility so that they can switch without great concern. Record: How much change will the incoming girls effect in the traditional behavior of present Union men? Beam: I don't think 126 girls will make that much of a dif- ference. Maybe if there was a more even ratio of girls to boys,. there would be more impact. I don't think you're going to see as much from the first class in the way of change as you will when you have a larger num- ber. Then they will be heard more. Malloy~ They're going to have anirnpactforthethingsthatare on campus now. We will have some students coming in who have different interests regardless of sex. The selection process has ensured out- standing girls in this class. Beam: Each girl who is coming is unique. She has special abilities just as each man coming has specific abilities or interests. Malloy: We should point out that Union College, as an all- male institution, has not been unwilling to experiment. Look at the changes in our curriculum in the last two years. We're just going to have to look at the situation and not close our minds. WOMEN'S WEEK FINALE Saturday, Aprill9 2-4 p.m. Jackson•s Garden Refreshments, Music, Frisbees, Etc. (In case of inClement weather, will take pla.ce on the second floor of Carnegie) All Are Welcome \Women Athletes play the field.\ \

~age 10 OONOORDIENSIS, .April .1.7~ 1980. Aroun us- . Orientation '80 On Saturday, Sept. 13, ap- ,proximately 650 new students and their parents will be . arriving at Union College. September .is still a long way off, but planning for Orientation '80 is well under way. 'l'he Orientation Committee of 1980 wants your help in formulating an Orientation program that will warmly welcome and familiarize the new students to all aspects of life here at Union. The Committee would like you to contribute to the planning for Orientation '80, Thoughts on what should be included, im- pressions of past orientations, and any other input that you may add will help the Com- mittee in planning a complete program. In addition, we would like to know now if your department, office or organization is considering any special meetings, receptions, etc., for the incoming students during Orientation '80. It is necessary to infonn us now so that time can be set aside for you in the Orientation schedule. The success of the Orientation program will aepend on your cooperation and enthusiasm in introducing Union to our new students. Please respond before April 18; the Committee eagerly awaits your reply. Thank you for your time. Please reply· to Michael Andolina, Assistant Dean of Students, Carnegie Hall. Approqcn to Selling \The Professional Approach to Selling,\ a on&-day pmgram for persons already in sales and those considering a professional career in selling, will be here from 8:30 a.m. to 3 p.m., Saturday, May 3. Course fee is $45. Major topics for discussion will include the setting of personal goals, time management, the selling situation, and the theory behind why people buy goods and services. Also, factors involved in a sales situation will be ex- plored--the approach, deter- mining the customer's needs, presenting the product or service, handling objections, closing the sale, and, main- taining continued involvement. Course 'instructor will be Martin J. Caplan, president and founder of the Concord House. A graduate ef Union College and Albany Law School, Caplan has 30 years experience in law, business, and real estate. He taught \Effective Operation of the Small Business\ at Union from 1975 to 1978. To register, or for more in- formation, 'Contact the Collegc;fs Graduate Studies and Con- tinuing Education office; 370• 6288. Freshman Record 19-84 . Now is the time to order your . (Freshman) Record for next year. This hardcover book will cost $6. Orders will be taken next Monday-Friday, April 21- 25, 12:30-3:30 p.m. in front of Carnegie. Please pay- at the same time you place your or- der. You can also order a copy of · THE RECORD 1984 by givjng · your name, box number and phone number to Diane Elliot in Student Activities along with $6. (A receipt will be sent to you.) I.E.F. Proposal Deadline The deadline for proposals to the Internal Educational Foundation in two categories-. student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative\ projects-falls on May 2. Notification for awards in both categories will be made by June 6. The deadline applies to proposals for projects to he undertaken during the sununer and fall terms. Proposals for student- initiated research projects must have a written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be- submitted to the Office of the Assistant to the Provost on supplied forms. Similarly, members of the College· community who have \educationally innqvative\ proposals should submit them to the Office of the Assistant to the Pr~vost on supplied forms. Cornell Summers Work For You Plan your educational investment wisely. Cornell U11iverslty offers a v.~lde variety of summer courses \nd special prog-rams with tuition at $110 per credit or less. By ac· celerating your degree program. you can . probably reduce the cost of your education significantly. · Besides, where else can you polish your writing skills and learn to use a computer or be In an undergraduate prelaw program and take a course in con_ceptual drawing? Where else can you be In the company of so diverse a group of faculty and students in such a uniquely attractive setting of hills, lakes. gorges, and waterfalls? Interested? Write or call for an Announcement today. CorneUUniversity Summer 'Session, 111 Day Hall Ithaca, New York 14853 Phone 607 I 256-4987 Parents Weekend 1980 April25-27, 19SO at Union College Friday, April 25th 1-4 p.m.-Open classes; ad- missions interviews for Union brothers-sisters. 3·6 p.m.--Registration, Carnegie lobby 3:30-5 p.m.-Poetry Reading with Denise Levertov, Strauss Lounge 5-6 p.m.-JSO Hillel Shabbat Service, students and parents 7~9 p.m.--\Photography at Union\ exhibit, Schenectady Museum . 8 p.m:-Reception for Denise Levertov, Strauss Lounge 8:30 p.m.-Coffeehouse, Old Chapel 9 p.m.-Speaker, Memorial Chapel-Tony Randall 9-11 p.m,...;Cabaret, Carnegie Hall . 10 p.m.-FUm, The Graduate, SSo16 Saturday, April 26th 9 a.m.-noon--Registration, admissions interview, Old Gym Hall 10 a.m.-noon-Departmental receptions, Department Lounges 9. a.m.-Campus Jog through Jackson's Garden Ongoing Events-Displays, exbibits, arts and crafts sales throughout the campus 10:30-11:30 a.m.--Prof. Thomas, Term Abroad in- formation session 11 a.m.-Men's Tennis vs. Hamilton, Campus Courts 11:30 a.m.-1 p.m.-Prize Day, Memorial ·chapel _ Noon-4 p.m.--Art Exhibit, Nott Memorial 12:45 p.m.-Campti§ Barbecue near Chester Arthur 1-3 p.m.--Financial Aid, Career Counseling and Alumni Office Open. House 1-3:30 p.m.-Women's softball game, Alexander Field 1:30-3 p.m.-President's and '· Dean's Reception, Jackson's Garden; alternate Hale House 2 p.m.--Fencing Demon- stration, Library Field; alternate, Arts 202 2-4 p.m.--Jazz Ensemble Concert, Jackson's Garden 3:30-4:30 p.m.-Alumni Gym and Pool open 4 p.m .. -Lacrosse vs. RPI, Garis Field 4 p~m.-Frisbee vs. ijamilton 4 p.m.--Hillel Reception, Strauss Lounge 4-5 p.m.--Dormitory, Fraternity-Sorority. Receptions 4:30 p,rn.-Mep's Glee. Club Concert, Memorial Chapel 8 & 10 p.m.--Film, The Graduate, SS016 9 p.m.-1 a.m.--Dance, The Jimmy Dorsey Band at the Ramada Inn on Nott Street - · Sunday, April 27th 10 a.m.-Noon-Family Btl,lllch 10-10:30 a.m.-Hugh Wilson Organ Recital, Memorial Chapel 10:30-11:15 a.m.-Ecumenical Worship, Memorial Chapel, President Morris ll: 15-noon-Reception, Hale House 1:30 p.m.-Women's Glee Club Concert, Memorial Chapel 8 & 10 p.m.--Film, The Graduate, SS016 • 464 State St. we deliver Ja.ri1:es Ogllvy· to s,peak Philosopher James Ogilvy will discuss \Technology Aesthetics and the Environ- ment,\ at 8:30 p.m., Monday, April 21, as part of a lecture series on technology and human value:;;. _ - Ogilvy, a consultant at Stanford Research Institute International in Stanford, Cal., is the author of Many Dimen- sional Man. His talk will be held in S.Qcial Sciences 016, and the public is welcome to attend. ·Blo·feedback Course t\n eight-week. non-credit course entitled, ''Managing Stress Through Biofeedback\ will be held at Union College beginning Thursday, April 24. · Classes will be held from 7 to 9 · p.m., and tuition iS $65. The biofeedback course was held at the College in February and proved to be so popular that a second section was added, Assistant Dean of Graduate Studies· and Continuing Education Katherine Briber said. The course Will again be taught by Schenectady Co..,tinued on page 11 Schenectady 374-1888 Good for you! I Time to get out and get into shape. And, with lots of exercise, well · · balanced meals are essential for good health. It's nice to know that a Domino's Pizza is not only very convenient, but also very nutritious. We use only the highest quality, 1 00% natural ingredients. Fast, Free Delivery 127 Nott Terrace! 372-4441 Our driv~rs .carry 1·ess than $20 Limitf;!d delivery area ©·Copynght 1980 Domino's Pizza Inc. . . .----~~----illlr---,------------~-------., I .. · - 2 FREE CANS · I I . I I OF PEPSI! . I I . I I 2 Free Cans of Pepsi I· 1 with any Pizza I .I Fast, Free Delivery I I i27 Notf Terrace 1 1 372·4441 /' I ·~· .. ' . • coupon Is stated value olf gross price I · including any applicable sales tax. ·----------------------------------J .... , ....... --~ ............ - .......... -.• .... - ... ·.~--- .,,,~--·,,·., ... ~ ....... ·~·---~· - - Co I psy( Oc pra< expl heal say, prm rec< to s1 ore Ir: will pro sucl stre inc! Om her sitt ver be ten: 0 bio: me be rel~ pre me a I his bio sa~ 1

I I I I I I I I I I I I Continued from page 10 psychologist Len Ochs. Ochs, who is in private practice and has had 15 ye~rs experience in the design of healtli maintenance systems, says biofeedback techniques provid~ a way for· persons to recognize their bodys' reactions to stress and learn ~to moderate · or eliminate them in the future. In the course, class members will use machinery that provides \feedback\ ·about such-physiological reactions to stress as muscle tension and increased s:kin temperature. Once a person recogniz~s his or het.body's response to stressful situations, verbal and -non- · verbal relaxatiut1eiercises will be designed to fit individual tension patterns. Ochs w~rns, however, that biofeedback is not considered medical treatment ahd cannet be used to control such stress• related illnesses as high blobd pressure. Any person taking medication or under the care of a physician shauld check with his or her doctor before trying · biofeedback . techniques, Ochs says. The limitations of medical · . OONOORDIENSlS, A.priZ 1\1 1980 Page 11 I .• roun .. amp .science in dealing with stress tlons, Fllni, Social, Speakers e1ther dance or listen to the s His talk will be held in Social Sciences 016, and the public is welcome to attend. and its attendant problems will Forum, Tax, Traffic and Pet sounds of the band we nave be a topic for class discussion. Court. planned. To register, or for m.ore inm . If anyone wishes. t~ be con- This is a great opportunity to for~ation, contact the Union Slde~ed for a pos1t10n as a get together for on~ last time as Posi·partum Counseling CoLlege Graduate Studies and chairman for any Student a class before graduation. So Continuiqg Education office, Forum Committee, there will be keep that date open Remem- telephone 370-6288. .an additional application also in ber, Thursday, June 12 the Student Activities Office. beginning at five o'clock. Watch Committee Ap.p I i caliot~s ATTENTION: Classes of . W81, 19~2 and 1983: Applications . for positions fer the following committees for the 1980•81 school yea.r will he available on Monday, April 2lst, in the Student Activities Office in ·carnegie. College Senate Committees: Academic Affairs Council, Student Affairs Council, Sub- council on Student Conduct, Planning & Priorities Con- -sultation Group, Liason Committee ·for Admissions, Liason Committee for Athletics, Liason Committee -for Campus Operations, SubcouncH on _Academic Standing of Students. Student Forum Committees: College Center, Committee on Committees, Concert, Elec- ~11 applications are due forticketstogoonsale. Wewill ~.r~day, May 2nd, .or .4:30 P:IU· ma~e sales exclusively to Having a first baby is a m the Student ActlVltles Office. semors for the first week but \brand new experience, .and I If you have any questions, feel after that we are opening them don't think women are very well free to. call any member- on up to any interested party, so prepared for .it or are getting Co,mmtttee on Committees: get yours qu:ickly. There are enough support afterwards,\ Will Lloyd, 370•6906; Bill only 300 being sold and they are says Union College alumna M,eehan, 3~2-8863; Dave sure to go fast! Karen N. Williams, whose 0 Connor (chairman), 382·9582; ff you have any questions or . 'doctoral dissertation dealt with Mfirla Shore, 370-6706; Andrew suggestions, please feel free to postpartum depression in first- ·Wlsoff, 370-6903. contact Mrs. Mada in Student time mothers. Activities or Lorraine Williams received a Ph.D. in Senior Fling :Seniors, what are you doing on Thursday night, June 12th? How about an excellent dinner followed by a cruise that will capture both the warmth of sunset and the beauty of a starlit summer evening. Interested? Eohanske.z Box 924. Life Sciences and Systems at Union College in June 1979. Her T ri p to- dissertation advisor was Union Associate Professor of New York City Biological Sciences George M. Butterstein. Interested in going to the Big · Apple after the Ttansit Strike? Of all the factorS', both I t d · p sy c h o l o g i c a 1 a n d n ereste · In going . to the physiological, whieh influence United Nations? postpartum depression in Interested in talking with a women having their first child, Soviet Delegate? Well, then, you're in luck! The Williams said, the one which is I t · 1 most realistically subject to n ernat10na Relations Club alteration is a woman's current will be going to the United Nations in New York City early life situation. Women need to be in May; The all\day trip will dealing effectively with the include a tour of the United stresses in their everyday Cornell law School It is again time to prepare for Senior . Fling. This year's committee has been working hard for·weeks.alreadyto make this event a success. After weighing many alternat~ves, it was finally decided that this year we would sponsor Senior Sail on Lake Geor.ge. Nations, briefings on world environment before accepting issues by the United Nations those brought on by the birth of Undergraduate ~Jaw Program Beginning at five o'clock on June.12, cocktails will be served (cash bar) at the Queensbury Hotel in Glens Falls. This cocktaii hour will be ·followed by dinner, beginning with a fresh fruit appetizer leading into salad, with the main .entree being Cornish Game Hen on a bed of rice. June 9 to July 22, 1980. A demanding si~·week program for college students who want to learn what law school is like. For further Information write to Prof. E. F. Roberts, Cornell Law SChooL 3148 Myron Taylor Han, Ithaca, NY 14853 After dinner, the party will move to the 32-mile lake better known as Lake George, where from 8 to 8:30 p.m. we shall board the Ticonderoga for a three-hour cruise. During the cruise, a cash ·bar will be available and munchies will be served. While on board, you can Carm's Restaurant & Pizza 140 Freeman Bridge Rd. Scotia, N.Y. 346-147.1 346 1474 Full menu delivered to your Union College door · fqr only 50¢ - Hot & ·cold Subs -,Full Italian Dinners ·Dining Room· · Mon .. Thurs --- 10 a.m. - midnite Fri • Sat - 1 o ·a.m. - 2 a.m. Sun-.. noon -m 11 p.m. Pizzas Deliveay' Mon - Thu rs - 4 p.m. -m idnite Fri • Sat - 4 p.m. - 2 a •. m. Sun .......... 4 p.m.- 11 p.m. staff, a chance to sit in on a child, she said. u 't d N · And one of the best ap· . m e · · atlons Meeting proaches for relieving the (perhaps even the Security stresses accompanying the Council) and a special briefing birth of a first child, Williams by a delegate of the Soviet Embassy tp the United Nations. said, is to make available to Th tf 11th' · 1 new parents a postpartum . e cos or a lS IS on Y about counseling service and-or $5, which ·includes tran- sportation. parent \support groups.\ Want to know more? Come te \What these women need most is the assur::Jnce that what a meeting, Monday, April21 at they're going through is normal 9:30 p.m. in the Conference and that it gets better,\ Room, third floor Carnegie Hall Williams said. In a recent (across .from WRUC). Hope to discussion at the College with see you there. the women who participated in Boston U~ prof.. her research and area k physicians and nurses, Spea S Williams suggested that such Samuel Y. Edgerton, Jr., postpartum services might be professor of• art history at established as an extension of a Boston University, will discuss hospital's prenatal program. the development of the Williams and Butterstein technical-scientific illustration have applied for a four-year t 7 30 Th d . M grant from the National a . : p.m. urs ay, ay 1. In f Edgerton's presentation is the stitute o Health to continue concluding lecture in a series on their research. One of their technolo~nd human values. goals, Williams said, will be to The author of The determine whether there is a Renaissance Rediscovery of. way of predicting which women Linear Perspective, Edgerton will be subject to severe post- has studied, lectured, and partum depression so that they written extensively about the may receive help as soon as relationship of science and art. ·possible. Attitude Readjustment Periods Every_ Tues. & Fri. ~ p.m. - 7 p.m./9 p.m. - 1 0 p.m. 1.00 Pitchers 2Sc Drafts Thurs. Night 4/17 9 p.m. - close Rock & Roll with Rolling Rock 7 oz. Bottles 4 for $1 .00 at ·tile Rathskellar

Page 12 # • CONCORDIENSIS, April 1\1 1980 Nye On Ford And Reincarnation Historian David E. Nye, author of Henry, Ford: Ignorant Idealist, will be among the scholars attending the annual meeting of the Popular Culture Association in Detroit on Friday, Aptil lit Nye, 3:3, is an assistant professor and director of the American studies here. His book on Ford began as a doc- toral dissertation at the University of Minnesota, where he received his Ph... D. in American studies in 1974. In his book, Nye discusses Ford's belief in reincarnation- often treated as a minor quirk by earlier 'biographers - as a deep, abiding belief which was Much of Nye's research was conducted at the Henry Ford Archives maintained bY the Greenfield VHiage Museum . at Dearborn. There, Nye discovered a film, now fn the National Archives in Washington; D.C., of the yo.ung relative whom Ford believed was.his mother's reincarnation. . After having several paint- mgs made of this woman dressed in the fashions of his mother's earlier days, Ford asked her to re-enact on ftlm his ·earliest childhood memory. confirmation that Ford's helief iri . reincarnation was· very serious,,,. Nye .says. ''People said it was just a whim, or that he said things about rein- carnation to shock ·reporters, butthat's simply not the case,\ according to Nye. Ford's interest in rein- carnation was killilled in 1901, when . a fellow · engineer gave him a book on the subject. From that time on, as Ford later said, '''It was as .if I had found a universal plan.'' · Cornell University Prof. David E. Nye, Department of American Stt~dies · central to the industrialist's inspiration,. drive, and outlook. Fard had remembered wa~king across a field and being shown eggs in a bird's nest, and the vignette was played out with a yo,~n~ boy. taking F..w·d's part. Tfiat ftlin is a startling • Progressive Planning Sqmmer Program June 2-:_20, 1980 Middle ·States· Report Cont. • • •• Continued from page l established by the Middle States Commission. The academic programs at Union were felt to be appropriat,e and \centers of commendable strength\ were displayed in both sciences and liberal arts. The faculty \carries splendid credentials and its members presented themselves to the Team as serious scholars and teachers.\ They were seen as committed to a high quality of education at Union. The team found the College's self-evaluation of specific programs and policies to be hampered by a lack of systematic information gathering and poor com- munication .. between faculty members. The financial con- dition of the College appears healthy, although there are certain areas such as cash Rows management and purchasing which can be improved. In general, the resources, facilities, and equipment of the College are adequate with improvements being made in the area of audio- and visual-aid equipment. As far as the library is concerned, the team found the staff to be responsive to the needs of the students and felt Union was fortunate to have other scholarly libraries nearby to suppleq1ent its own resourc~s. One major criticiSm that the team had wa.s tllat \if the centrality of the library to the educational progr~m is an objective ... , it is not enhanced St. Andrews Exchange by limits on library hours ... to close the library on weekends at 5 o'clock is a symbolic statement of expectations which become an in- stitutionalized, self-fulfilling_ prophecy.\ As far as the organization and administration of Union is concerned, the team found that confused lines of com- . munications appeared to be an accepted state at the College. However, they also .found that 'the ·new President was working towards rearranging the organizational structure of the College in such a way as would provide unified work on shared objectives. The ,main problem the team found · existing at Union is a lack of clear mission. Statements concerning the . mission vary and ar.e often contradictory. To be able to ha'\l'e a . strong forward. . movement, Un~on needs a ·clearly defined ·mission. ''It is timely for ·union to articulate for itself a sure sense of the educational mission of the in- stitution, not as an exercise in philosophical ingenuity or elegance in the use of language, but a$ a guide for decisions that must continually be faced in the future.\ As a final note, the team expressed its opinion that-Union College . needs to pay closer attention to such areas as recruitment of minority students, recruitment of women and minot;ities in staff, faculty, and administrative positions, campus safety, ac- commodations for handicapped persons, and careful management of grant and research funding. ·Neighborhood Housing Strategy Chester Har:tman Community Ecdnomic Development Richard Schramm Video and Film for Community Development Timothy Kennedy Critical Theory and Planning Theory John Forester Political Economy for Health Planning Sander Kelman Tuition and fees are $495. For application, write: Progressive Planning Summer Program Cornell University Department of City and Regional Planning ZOIC Sibley Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 .. Union College sophomores with a B or better grade point average are encouraged to apply for selection as the Union College \St. Andrews Exchange Student\ for the 1980-81 academic year. The selected student will spend his-her junior year abroad at the University of St. Andrews, Scotland's oldest university. St. Andrew. By 1477 the bishopric was raised to the dignity of an archbishopric so that St. Andrews actually became the ecclesiastical capital of Scotland. -AREA CALENDAR---- · This student shall enjoy a full year's scholarship at the University of St. Andrew's including tuition, room and board. Applicants are to submit a 2-4 page essay (typed) evaluating their own education at Union (goals, successes, failures and so forth)-with some attention paid to ways in which a year at St. Andrews might serve them. Students are also asked to submit one letter of recom- rp.endation from a faculty member who knows their work well. Applications must be received by Friday, April 25, 1980. A selection committee of , faculty members and former exchange students will screen / the applications, and will in- terview finalists during the week of May 5th. _ Submit applications to Professor Marten, Department of English, Humanities 216 D. Please see Professor Marten with any questions you might have. St. Andrews is located on the Fife coast, forty-five miles north of Edinburgh and thirteen miles south of Dundee. This university city, while it is easily accessible by public transport, and has excellent road com· munications With larger cen· ters, still retains much of its rural and historic flavor. The town of St. Andrews dates back to the sixth century when it contained a stronghold of the Pictish Kings and an influential monastery of the Celtic church. In the eighth century, it became the center of the national cult of The University was created in ·the fourteenth and fifteenth century. In 1413 the University was officially recognized by Pope Benedict XIII. At the time of its creation, the University was merely a society ·of scholars concerned with studies in the three faculties of Art, Divinity, and Canon Law. At the end of the Middle Ages, the University was organized into three major eolleges--St. Salvator's (1456'), St. Leonard's (1312) and St. Mary's {Hi37). By this time St. Andrews was the principal center of higher learning in Scotland. A special attraction of St. Andrews as a uniV'e[sity thus lies in its history, extending over five and a half centuries and given reality by the sur- vival of many of its medieval buildings and customs. Its location also is particularly fortunate; and in its size it strikes the happy mean, small enougb to retain a close sense of identity and personal contact, large enough to pos~ess. the facilities and to attain the level of academic achievement which distinguish the great univer- sities. This is an opportunity that every sophomore ought to consider. It is hoped that m()re students will respond to this program so that it will receive . the attention and consideration that it most clearly ~arrants. ·Editors's Note: Susan Fitz• gi~bon, -who participated . iJ!, th1S program is very enthusiastic · - about the exeha11ge and encourages anyone interested to call her at home for .further information. Her phone number is 3464757. ARTS April 21 and- 24-TWO WORLDS OF ANDREW WYETH: .KUERNER'S AND OLSON'S, a slide and sound presentation produced by the Metropolitan Museum of Art, will be sho~ at 7 p.m. on Apt;il 21 and at 1: 30'p.m. on April\24 in the New Scotland Branch of Albany Public Library, 369 New Scotland Avenue. For further information, call Fran Lewis at 449-3380 (mornings) ·or 869-9317 (hpme). / BOOK FAIR April 26- The largest and most diversified antiquarian bookstore in the Capitol District is open only one day a year when the Albany,.---Antiquarian Book Fair is held at the Albany Institute of History and Art, 125 Washington Avenue, Albany. This year on Saturday, Apri126 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., over 40 booksellers from the ..east coast will assemble at the Institute · for the 6th annual fund-raising event. For further information call 463-4478. FILM April 22-Return to the GOLDEN AGE OF COMEDY when the :film featuring scenes from ·films by Laurel and Hardy, Will Rogers, Jean Harlow, Car~le Lombard, and many others will be shown by the Albany Public Library. The movie will be screened at 2 p.m. and at 8 p.m. in the Main Library, 161 Washin-gton Avenue. April 24--0n April 24 at the RPI Chapel and Cultural Center at 2125 Burdett Avenue, there will be two showings at 7:30 and 9:30 of Harold and Maude, \a classic cult film which features one of the screen's. most unlikely pairs,\ Ruth Gordon and Bud Cort. DANCE April 19-The Joffrey II Dancers will he performing at Proctor's Theatre in celebration of National Dance Week. Tne performance will . take place at 8 p.m. For further information, contact Audrey Hughes at 399-5121 (home) or 377-6815 (office). April 21-Spring classes at the Studio for Ethnic Dance,' 286 Central Avenue, Albany, will begin the week of April 21 and will inclUde Belly Dancing, Jazz, African, Ballet and' Trimnastics, a new special ·for the non dancer. Call465-5503 for detailed schedule .information. LECTURE April 22-ANATOMY OF AN ILLNESS, by Norman Cousins, will be reviewed at 12:15 p.m. by Robert C. Osborn, executive director ef the Whitney C. Young Community Health Center. The lecture will take place at the Main Library, 161 Washington Avenue. For fur- ther information, contact Fran Lewis at 449-3380 (mornings) or 869~9317 (home). April 22-Pulitzer Prize- winning journalist Francis Fitzgerald will present the second annual William Gibson Lecture at 8 p.m. in the Albany Public ~ibrary, 161 Washington Avenue. For further inM formation call 449-3380 (mor- · rungs) or 869-9217 {home). April 22-0n Tuesday, April 22 at 7:30 p.m. at the Green Island Community Center., Dr. Mark Jordan will present a lecture on James B. Francis and his achievements as -a hydraulic engineer in Lowell, Mass. For further information, call 274-52&7. April 26-Paul Marr, Associate Professor at SUNY Albany will speak on The Economic and Social Potential of the River at The Auditorium of the'New York State Museum, Empire State Plaza. The lee· ture will begin at 10 a.m. For f.urther information, call 474· 5842. MUSIC April 19-A BLACK WEEKEND concert will take place at SUNY Albany's Page Hall (downtown) at 8:30 p.m. For further information, call 457-4901. April 19-2o-The League of Theater Artists, Inc. a producers of Capital Repertory Company and Lexington Conservatory Theater will be presenting 2 . performances of William Mibson's \Two for the seesaw.~' The performances will take place at the Capital District Psychiatric Center in Albany at 8 p.m. on ~pril19 and at 2:30 •p.m. on April· 20. For further information call462-4531 or 966-8921. - - - BUL ThE editol year.. positi meet 7:30 floor Att to dE spee• word ' May with acce and Com An com Goo< and been eval ten11 GeoJ Scie pro:li Pro tenu testi Cha Cha terv Si nee• hou: Call F sub mi11 per Ell• 482· A to bed mo wa: lau per Cal - PI 22,

il n r. a ls ·a J, n, r, y 1e al m n, c- or '4- ~K ke ge m. all of a >ry ;on be ·Of the ~es ltal in md i'or 531 l ' 1 OONOORDIENSIS, ApriZ 1'J.~ 1980 Page 13 classifieos. / BULLETIN BOARD The Garnet is looking for new editots for the 198()..81 ~cademic year.. All those interested in- a position please attend a-general meeting on Monday~ AprU 21, at 7:30 in the Garnet Room {3rd floor ~arnegie). Lounge. The Office Qf Placement and Career · Resources offers a Job Search Workshop for anyone seeking a summer or pen;nanent em-~ ployment, Learn the job search strategies. from the recent Union graduates who have done their own job search and are successfully employed. A t t . All s · · · h\ Fireman's Fund Insurance t en wn: . . . emors WlS mg ·Co .. , W:h•\t.e :Plam· s' N'7 .has a te deliver the commencement .[ speech please submit a 1500 recruiting date on Wednesday, word draft to Mike Andolina by April 23, 1980. They are in- May 1st. Importantf Speeches ' . terested in talking with EE's, M E's, and CE's·, also with student name will not be accepted, include only ID No. ·. Chemistry, Physics or Biology and Box: No. Thank you-- majors, for safety engineers. Commencement Committee. You rnaysign up in Placement • at any time .. An Ad Hoe Committee composed of Professors Goodheart, Griggs, Kershner, and Scaife (Chairperson) has been appointed to investigate, evaluate, and report 'On the tenurability of Professor Geofftey Goldbogen (Computer Science). If any persons want to provide testim~my relating to Professor Goldbogen' s tenurability, please 13ubmit the testimony in writing to . the Chairperson or contact the Chairperson to set up an in- terview. Sikorsky or Avco employees' need two roommates to rent house in Bridgeport or area. · Call Ron, 27 4-8291. · · Female roommate wanted in suburban Albany apt. 20 minutes from downtown. $1;; per month + utilities. Call Ellen~work: 445-3358; home: 482-3401. Leave message. Apartment sublet from June 1 to Sept. 1. One furnished bedroom of three bedrooms, modern apt., air cond., dish- washer, porch, 24 hr. security, laundry room in building. $205 per month. Brookline in Boston. Call Karen eves. 617-731-8650. PLACEMENT Job Search Workshop-April 22, Tuesday, 4 p.m., Strauss Urgen~job opportunitiy for a Resource Organizer at Families Crisis Program, Unity House, Troy, NY. Duries start after graduation, . but they must hire immediately. Please contact Placement Office for further information. General Tire & Rubber Company--has position openings for students who are , interested in pursuing careers within the fields of Technical Management--Quality Control and Mechanical Engineering (Product Design). For further information, please stop by Placement. Tile Office of Placement and Career Resources offers a Job . Search Workshop for Fresh- men, Sophomores, Juniors looking for summer jobs and · seniors looking for permanent employment. The recent Union graduates, w};to have done their o.w1;1 job search and are su.ccessfully employed, will be on hand to give you tips on· how to! 1. Uncover job openings 2. Writing a job-getting resume · 3. Interview techniques A Career Day Luncheon, hosted by the Schenectady Rotary Club, will be held May 8, 1980. Union College students . interested in being guests are to sign up at the Placement Office. The affair will offer the op- portunity t~ visit with SUMMER' JOBS! Union College's Academic Opportunity Program (AOP) needs 4 peer tutor-counselors for its 1980 Summer Progr~m. WHEN: July 6 through August 15/ 1980. WHERE: Skidmore College/ Saratoga Springs/ New York RESPONSIBILitiES: Attend Summer Program Orientation session; Tutor in assigned subject area; Provide personal, S()cia I and academic counseling to Union College students; Assist students with orientation to Union; Assist the residence staff; Participate in all required staff meetings; Submit reports; Partidpate in Evaluations; Make counseling ref~rrals to appropriate personnel; Participate in social cultural, and recreational ac;:fivities; Perform other duties as assigned by Un-ion Director ahd Assistant. Director and Summer Program Staff. QUAL 1 F·l CAT IONs.: Upperdassperson or Graduate as of June 1980;, ·Capable of tutoring Math, Chemistry or· English, Minimum of 2.0 ·cumulative index, Minimum of 3.0 in r:;ubject area you will tutor; Freedom to live at Skidmore' during the 6 week session. Applications now available a~d interviews being 'arranged in the AOP office, Old Gym Ha II. For m&re information, contact Mitzi Glenn, Direc- tor; or Maxine Shuford, Asst. Director at 370- 6115. Application Deadline~ May 1, 1980. executives, administrators and profession..als from. national and local businesses. The guest list wiJl be limited, so early reservations are urged. New York City Transit Authority-Exam No. 0027 for Transit Management Analyst • · Trainee--Application forms may be obtained by visiting or writing to the New York City Dept. of Personnel, Application Section, 49 Thomas Street, NY, NY 10013 and asking for the application forms for Transit Management Analyst Trainee, exam number 0027. Mailed requests should include a stamped self-addressed en- velope. For further information please contact Placement Office. Natpac Inc., (Food Products Company) needs sales people with or without selling ex- perience. If you are interested in sales, please stop by for further information. Techniques of, Interviewing- On Apri13l, at 4 p.m., Victor J. Kulpa of General Electric Information Service will be at the Placement Office to talk with students about in- terviewing. If you are in- terested, please stop in to sigri up as soon as possible. . Summer W.ork Opportunities- .. If you are interested in part- or full-time work dealing with educational materials, please stop byPlacement and sign up for a group interview with Scott & Fetzer. PERSONALS \(Some) People hate to sleep with me.\-Turdus migratorius L.R.-I missed you this week. Can't wait to be together again- Hplar Beth it was great this weekend without you know woo around. Ed Jl JUDY, JUDY, JUDY, I was- calling for you. You're my dream. See you in Polysci. Anotker hint next week. Pledges-the fog is here . . PSK OPENOOQR 136,Jay Street Downtown Schenectady 346-2719 B.J.S., Hi! You're cute. Phi Sig, Great Concert!! ! Harry-· You're the most wonderfuf ·man in the whole world-Rockie but don't swallow Mackadoo--Buy soundprom \ offng. S & K- Thanks for putting up with all of my insanity! -D \· HiGuys! How are you? Hope Harry-BlJiuhah Bluuueeaah . you are fine.-Gary Blublubuuuu-Motor Mouth Fan Club H.M.-You're great--! wanna be just like you Johnboy-Do your dishes Dear Robin, Congrats 011 the terrific--looking new you! Anna Marta and Mr. Grinberg wish you a very happy 20th on the lOth! Lots of love and carob kisses, Piggie. Barney .... Congratulations on Cehorts-Great Cake! !-Oaks breaking the world record (for a team) for most hours spejlt in Little Einstein--Don't be so bed in a week. d. d NERVOUS\ L Y B L ·amne · · · . . ., .. ·. M·ahPah--Make neutron . Mary B. Smile and have a bombs-not war. · good day!~from one who never Gregggg~-I hear you wear a size 34 double keg pair of pants. Harry-Eat that smelly jelly- gives up (MK) Bob~-These are the last words-HAPPY BIRTHDAY Looking Back. • • Continued from page 9 stated the fact that she has a steady boyfriend.) Other coil1II1ents included: \I like them if there's music and dancing, but otherwise, they're too crowded and it's too loud to talk to people.\ \The best thlng to do is to go to the same frat until you get a group of friends there. After that you have much more fun. Believe me, I'm a senior with four years experience.\ There was the accasional favorable o.ptmon: \Frat parties are a blast! Good times! • You get really drunk and then you can go up and talk to people, you can let loose. And there's free drinks. I also don't like when there's more than one~on the same night; I think that there should only be one on any-· night so that we can all get together! . One group of girls in the Pub had obviously thought ex- tensively about frat parties prior to being asked because after the question had been put to them, they seemed to have an opinion for nearly every aspect of the subject. I tried to get it all but this is basically what they had to say: \Yea frat parties are O.K. but it really depends on who you go with, and it also depends on the frat.\ ''You don't go there to meet people, you've got to go with someone you know.\ \Oh I don't know, I go to get· picked up.\ ''Some parties are gross though, like the underwear party, I mean they wrung out the underwear into a glass and expected me to drink it! Semiformals are a pain in the ass too, the girls feel obliged to get dr.essed up but the guys never do.\ \Band parties are a blast! \ ''Guys just try to pick up girls, but the girls are responsible too. I mean if you stand in a corner all night nothing is going to happen. You don't have to worry unless . you're asking for it.\ \You can't stay at a frat party late, like after three. The guys start getting wild and think that anything goes.\ \After three in the morning, if you're downstairs you're in trouble, if you're upstairs you're having fun, if you're in the basement, forget it.\ COLLEGE ACCREDITED PROGRAM DIVING • DIVING SCIENCE AND MARINE SCIENCE May 18-31 Coral ReefEcology Course Key Largo. Florida $510 00 June 14-21 Sport D1vong Course Key Largo. Florida $280 00 June 21-28 Sport D1vong Col)rse CozumeL Mex1co $375 00 July 7-1.1 Underwater Photography Course Key Largo. Florida $470 00 w1th Stephen Frink P.O. Box 415, Norlhampton, Mass., 01060 • (413) 586-3448 It's Co·ming Soon

Page 14 5porte Upset Geneseo: m . . . The Union College lacrosse team ventured into the wilderness of Canton, N.Y. last Thursday to battle the Saints of Saint Lawrence. The Dut- chman's two game winning strf'al~: was in danger against the f.ifth ranked Division III 1 eam in the nation. An enthusiastic crowd was on hand for the encounter on the OONOORDlJl}NSIS~ April 17, 1980 n . beautiful SLU , campus. Unfortunately the Garnet, at this earlv season date, were unable to seriously challenge the Saints. St. Lawrence humbled the Union 11, 19-9. lf Union is to meet with success this season they cannot dwell on past performances as their grueling schedule presents one formidable opponent after l another. , On Saturday af- ternoon, Union hosted Geneseo,~ the 11th ranked Division III team. OfficialS permitted the use of Garris Field and a sizeable crowd was in at- tendance on the wind chilled day. Union opened up a {)'.4 halftime lead. consist c G~>neseo came out fired up for the second half. as they did not want to lose their haughty national ranking. The vastly improved Dutchman squad was not about to roll over for Geneseo. The Garnet came out flying in the third period. Neil Kanner scored two goals on five feeds, one from Durhan and one frorn Myers. Mark Sackerson also notched one goal. by DAVERUDEN When they are on they are capable of beating any team in the National Hockey League.· When they are off they get blown out by the likes of the Winnipeg Jets. This is the story of the New York Rangers; a team with a split personality. When the season began, many expected great things from the Rangers. This was the team that had surprised everyone by making it to the Stanley Cup finals, defeating Philadelphia and the Islanders on the way. But when the season began someone forgot to remind the Rangers of this. They struggled follow. The Rangers have the talent to go very far in the playoffs. To win the Stanley Cup (for the first time in forty years), though, they are going to have to reach down for that something extra. While the Rangers personnel is very good, it is ·not that of the Canadians and Sabres. Heart and desire could pu.§h them past the~e teams. For Ranger fans it is a sometimes frustrating situation. Somehow, though; it seems that Freddie Shero coached teams come through in the clutch. The Stanley Cup finals start around the middle of May. The Rangers could be there if they want to be. The fourth quarter began with Union in a commanding 10-6 ' lead. Geneseo threatened with five minutes remammg, ,r.educing the score to 10-9. The Dutchmen once again did not fold as Rich Romer and Mark Sackerson each answered with a goal and Union held off the opponents for the remainder of the game to gain a 12-9 victory, The key to the.victory was the aggressive and heads-up play of the defensemen. 'The defen- semen were helping each other out all day. Their aggressive play caused many turnovers, which in turn were usually Leading scorer Neil K<;mner scooped up and cleaned by their hungry sticks. Brian. Sullivan was' spectacular on Geneseo's leading scorer. Boli Gaylord, .Tom Tallbott and Charlie Freni did an outstanding job of check:irig and cleaning all af- ternoon. The. outstanding performance of the day goes to goalie Ted Kelley. Ted, a converted midfiel der, challenged the Geneseo shooters , forcing mauy quickened and errant shots. Ted played with the confidence of a veteran. Saturday afternoon, the Dutchmen host undefeated, 8th ranked. Middlebury anci en- tertain Golgate on Monday. On Wednesday they will travel to Albany. to stay above the .500 mark all season long. Compounding . the confusion were the indiyidual games. Who were the real Rangers? Were they the team that beat the Flyers or the team that lost to Washington? Almost as puz- zling were the individual per- formances. The Rangers had the personnel, but they sometimes decided to take the night off. Dutch Hollow Pub Parent's Weekend Dinn,er Goalie John Davidson is a good example. He was the key to the Rangers performance m the playoffs last year. As anyone will tell you. a hot goaltender can make the d.if- ference in the playoffs. If the Rangers are to repeat last year's heroics Davidson is going to have to be more con- sistent between the irons. It seems when he plays well the team plays well. Davidson is the Rangers catalyst. The forwards wm also be an important link to the Rangers' fortunes. The line of Anders Hedberg, Ulf Nilsson, and Steve Vickers is the key line to the team. The Rangers need good scoring performances, from them especially from the slumping Hedberg. Phil Esposito will have to assume his familar position in front of the opposing team's net and tip in a few shots. Ron Duguay, who sometimes leaves his desire elsewhere, will.have to skate all out for entire shifts, while Don Maloney and Eddie Johnstone will have to show the same desire in working the puck out of the corners. The forecheckers (Walt Tkaczuk and Dean Talafous) will have to keep the opposing team's for- wards honest. Perhpas the real key 1o the Rangers success is the defense. On different nights they tend to take different roles in the structure of the game. Some nights they stick to defensive, hard-hitting hockey, while on other nights they play gambling type hockey, carrying the puck in too deep and getting caught up ice. The former is needed if the team is to stop the Mon- treal's and Buffalo's. The ex- perienced defensemen like Dave Maloney and Carol Vadnais are going to have to provide leadership and set an example for t~e younger ones to \ ake Your Reservations Now Free Carafe of Wnne Or P!i\cher Of Beer V\!~i~h Your 1\-J\eai *Carnation For NV\om * f.UTC!-1 '.?.t:TZrn :tLt _nunbo buttgeJt c.oore.d the \'O.LJ :'ou (.,~e. it, t\'.Lth tomato and .t'.ettuc.e PIZZA '3UP.GEC' ' - Jwnba ·bt.Vl.geJt :topped with p.<.zz.a M.uc.e, mozzM.e..Ua. c.h.eue, a.nd peppe;wr.U ASPEN BURGER Jwnbo bWLgeA uJtved W-i.:th mu.~h!tOoriUI and &oUJr. CJteam ~r.'INVI-11 LL BURGER Jumbo b~VL :topped l~ b~eon and bma.theAed ).n oWL c.heU~e &a:u.c.e PUB BURGER . Jumbo buJr..geJI. M.Jtve.d w.i.:th oll.U-tee.d mu.6M.oom6 and o nion.6 SALAV SELECTIONS .CHEF SALAV . JU:Ue.n~e &:t.JLi.p.6 o 6 TuttkerJ Ham, Sw.i.6.& Che.ue dMped oveJt. a. bed o ~ 1M~ h. tet.tu.c.e, !JJLth .torruLt:o wedqu and ha.Jtd c.ook.ed egq SrliJAC!i SALAV F11.ult ~p..tnac.h wUh bacon, chopped egg, and cu.'t hou&e ciJr..eAJ...{.ng C:.-\lA.V 11AR - :'ii\en.t!J o ~ ~ 'I.U h q Jt.e..e.nh and a wtde VaJUI!.Df :- ( ;,a.Jr.YU.!ihu SOUP r:w:IJC'4 r',\JIL'\J SOUl' Sa.be.d .tn .i..ncUv..i.dua£. c.a6~a:M!e, topped wLth Ftenc.h bJte.a.d and \'e..t'.:te.d c:.he.u e 'ESSEPT , 3.5C 3. 95 4.00 4. 00 3. 75 3..50 2.75 7. 15 1 • 2 5 F ItO ze:tt '( r j Wt.-t. • • . . • 7 5 Che.ue rate ..... 1. 25 'CiiocoEa..te rJteam P{e ..... , .95 Ar.p.Ce 1'-i.e wl C'hec>M • • • • • • os \ ' 'J.'i, SIDU.'PI STEAK 11Ic.r.: mn fMtU, bMA..t'.e.d to. peA6ec;;ti.an ::OQAST DRU!E R.1 BS CF iJE[f ru.-t :the t>Jttt; uau. Ul<e i.t · Unq CuJ: . ' ~u.ee.» Cu;t WNVON BRt 1 I l l.!a.JU.na..ted :to pe.Jtfi.ectio n, .oeJt.ved w.i..th ho.t ga~t.Uc. but:tVL on :tcJtu,.t VtrrCH HOLlC:X~ STEAK ' · TendeA i'Ie.a.k maJU.mt.te.d. to a .ta119y :tMte. VEAL COWO.lJ BLEU IXUfiMd ve.a£. ~J.tu.ni)e.d wLth ~w.iM c.heue and p!W-6 c.uLt:ta . ' CHICKEN KIEV , ' AU while m~a..t bJLeM.t 6.iil.e.d w.uh chl.ve bu.:titefl. RIBS AMV STUFfE'[I SHgiMP TendeJL ub and twc jumbo &.tu66ed .6h1Wnp CHI CKVJ PAR!H-GANA , QUJt :tendVt c.IU.c.~en .ot!r-tp-6 c.ovme.d w.i.th 6pa:ge.ttL .oaute., and mozzalLe.tla c.he.u.e ' FROM nit SEA ,GROI LEV SCROV In. teman bu.tte.Jt, m~ .{.n !fOUl!. mouth BROI LEV SCALLOPS .. • · T ~ftdeJt, .6we.et, bt, a de.Ue:a..te. ·:.tt-Lne. and bu.t.t!Vt. .o a.uee BAKEV S TUrFEV SHP.I MP • 'FoWt jumbo ~hJWllp with c.Jtabmt';a:t .l!.tu.&o-i.ng 8.95 10.50 9.50 5.75 6.25 7.75 7.25 11.00 5.15 5.25 1.50 8.50

1 1 0 ..... l 0 0 5 15 25 00 75 . 25 ,50 .50 OONOORDIENSIS, April 1.1, 1980 ,Page 15 6port5 A Vlew From The Stands by .DOUG SILVERSTEIN Concerning compensation for free agents, I am in total agreement with the owners. Logically, an offer of an amateur dra.ft choice is too miniscule for the losses ab- sorbed. The owners are being very reasoqable in the proposal that the player must be selected by at least eight tC;laJilS in the re- entry draft, guaranteeing that the player will be ample compensation. The .protection of fifteen players on the roster of the team that signed the free agent is also very logical. If the: Cincinnati Reds had signed a free agent this past year, they · would hav.e been in danger of .. losing at worst Paul Moskau. Junior Kennedy, .Ron Oest~r or Mario Soto. Considering the Reds had one of the better teams in baseball last year, one can assume that the choice of ~players available frem their team would be better than most teams. -The owner's proposals . are very fair, and could be more stringent. Concerning the amount of years necessary for a player to be eligible as a free agent, a compromise, with a personal added proposal would be the best solution. Five years is enough, and this will probably be the final agreement. The player's opinion that it should be lower because of minor / Track Bows The Union track team opened its' season with a dismal per- formance, suffering a 1161/2-4516 drubbing at the hands of arch- rival R.P.I. The Dutchennn were clearly the inferior team, winning only four of the nineteen events contested. Despite . the one-sided score, there were several outstanding performances by Union run- ners. Freshman Adam Licht won the 1500 meters with a time of 4 : 12 and finished second in the 500 meter event with a--time of 15:21. Dave Wallace placed in· three events, tieing for first in the pole. vault with tearmnate Jirri ~alucki and finishing third in both the· long jump and 400 meter hurdle~.' Frost Dennis Contois also turned in a pair of strong per- formances, bucking a brisk wind to win the half-mile in 2:00 and then turning in a 52 second quarter mile split in the winning mile relay. This issues athlete of the week is frosh women's lax standout Holly Howard. With women's Lacrosse even at 1-1, Holly accounts for more than half of the teams goals. Playing third Despite Contois' strong performance in the relay, the · event was not decided until the last leg when Mark Arienti, a last minute substitute better known for his performances in the steeplechase, held off a desperate surge by a R.P.I. runner to insure the win. The time of 3:39 turned in by the Union team of Contois-Arienti- Pete Vielkind and John Stimmel was one .of the fastest times recorded in the state so far this season, but Arienti felt the relay team could go faster. Arienti said, \When we get our baton handoffs down we should be all set. Bad handoffs cost us a couple of seconds at least.\ Union travles to SUNY- Binghamton Saturday to face Binghamton, Mansfield State, Oswego, and St. Bonaventure in a five team meet. Nex:t Wed- nesday they return home to host Hamilton College. bonne attack, she is responsible for moving the ball up field as well as scoring goals. She has been extremely successful at both. Howard, who has been :.._FREE- Introduclory Lecture on the Transcendental Medi,tation Program on Wed. April 23 at 8p.m. Hale House Lounge Sponsored by Union Colle~e SIMS Club ...l. 3rd Annual Delta Phi •.•s.uitcase Party\ Saturday May 2 11 p.m.-4 a.m. in Girling Center See you there, Aloha Tickets on sale now in Student Activities- Supply Limited league commitments can be solved by including a clause that guarantees the player free agency after five years of major league commitment and · a maximum four years minor league commitment. This does not mean that the player can declare his free agency after four years in the minor leagues. · The players are definitely right on their stands on ar- bitration. If the negotiations did not include past performance and salary, the two year star may wind up earning less than the ten year bench warmer. Could you imagine Lee Mazzilli making 100,000 and Mike Jorgenson earning 300,000? I do suggest a minimum two years / in order for a player to have the right to arbitrate, eliminating one-year phenoms that cash in on short success. As discussed previously, the reasons for a threatened strike before Memorial Day Weekend are very complex. They have been logical and furtive in their decision. They claim that they do not want to dissapoint the fans by delaying the start of the regular season. In addition, they were clever to name May .23 as the strike date if their demands are not met. This threatens huge Memorial Weekend dividends that owners count on. But who are the players fooling by showing an allegiance towards the fans. They know very well that an early season strike depletes their salaries. The hardest hit are the rookies and fringe players. If they did strike May 23, they would have earned enough nnoney to carry thefl1 through the strike. What will result from this whole issue is to be seen. As stated. above, I believe that each side has valid points. I do not want to see a strike as none of you do. But even the threat of a strike spurs negotiations that serve to improve the game, both oil the field and off the field. Meanwhile we can sit back and ·let the umpires call the strikes. It's time for the (Schenectady to Saratoga) BEER RA.LLY Ch_i Psi presents Its 8th Annual Beer Rally Wednesday, April 23rd For rules and entry fQ_rrns, see pave Wilber or Brian Walck at Chi Psr Lodge (382-9029) ·Women's Lax by CHRIS PHELAN On April 11, the Wqmen•s ~arsity and Junior Varsity Lacrosse Team opened their season with a game against playing Lacrosse since 7th grade, was awarded High School varisty letters in field hockey, lacrosse and basketball at Kingswood Oxford Academy in Hartford, Conn., although she plans to play only the two for- mer .at Union. Quick and aggressive, Holly led the Dutchwomen past Skidmore last week with five goals in an 8-1 victory. Later that week she connected on four shot -attennpts against a powerful West Point but to ano avail. in a 16,-6 loss. \Good moves and fakes while she's carrying the ball are the key to her success,\ admired Coach Marty Morrison. \Her hustle is outstanding.\ Holly, hoping to lift the Lax women over .500 will be in action today (Thursday at Russell Sage and again on Saturday at home against a respectible Hartwick Squad. Although she says Lacrosse is her favorite and best sport, Holly can be found playing for the women's field Hockey teann in the fall. Holly Howard is certainly a welcomed addition to the women's sports program here at Union. 'Editor;s Note: Regretfully, a photo of Holly was unavailable for publication. Skidmore. At the half, the score was 3·1-, and they played a very strong second half, bringing Union a sucesive 8-1 victory. The high scores was freshman Holly Howard, who scored five goals, with Debbie Goldberg, Emily Monosson, and Cheryl Katz scoring one goal each. According to Coach Marty Morrisof!, the game was well played by Union; it was a good passing ganne, with the team connecting well from the defense to the attack and overall the teamwork·. was excellent. For example, during the frequent \double-team\ situation the surrounding players worked to the team's advantage, so that the player involved on the double teaming was freed for a pass, and therefore out of a \double team.\ The Skidmore defense did a good job, although they were under pressure at certain tinnes. , When the ball was in attack, their defense stayed awake, concentrating, and so kept themselves in the game. The next day, the team journeyed to the United States \Military Academy to play a tough game against the Army Cadets. At the half, the score was 4-2, in West Points. favor . During the first half, the play was even; however, West Point pulled away \in the second half due to their overall greater speed, and they tended to be more aggressive as a team. Coach Morrison feels that the Union team possesses better skills, but unfortunately, the team didn't use them to the fullest potential. The final score of the game was a disappointing •16..() loss for Union. The high scorer again was Holly Howard, who_brought in four goals, with Carol Ghinger and Cheryl Katz each scoring once. The J.V. squad, Coached by Chris D'Alessand.ro held the Skidmore game at 2-2 Wltil the half. The final score was 5-2, in Skidmore favor, and the scores were Gretcbez Schwarz and Kelly Green. The level of skill on the J.V. squad varies, but everyone played very well. The speed and agressiveness of the West Point team was what did the J.V. squad in despite the caliber of the players in the second half. Marcia Hepford scored three goals, and Gretchem Schwarz brought in one goal. Coach D' Alessandro observed that despite the loss, the team learned a lot about positioning and strategy from their first game, and did an exceptional job of applying that knowledge to their confrontation against West Point. At this point in the season, the Women's Lacrosse Team is much stronger thari ever, therefore the outlook for the Season is very bright. Coaches Morrison and D'Alessandro and the team are looking forward to meeting Russell Sage on Thursday April 17, and Hart- wick on April19. Hopefully, the team will bring their record up to 3-1 at these games. Sport•s Photographers Needed- Call Rich Hope Or Bill Curtin At 382•9029 •

..... Page 16 OONOORDIENSIS, April 1\1 1980 eporte Union 9 Starts Slowly by GLENN KINNS Defense may well be the determining factor regarding the suecess of the baseball team this year. After dropping their first three ,decisions it is ap· parent that run production may inhibit the Dutchmen from attaining their goal of an NCAA .playoff berth. Union held part of their spring training in St. Petersburg, Florida and was able to settle on a .starting lineup much earlier in the season than usual. Coach Dick Sakala will again lead the ~t team to another successful season if all goes according to plan. Union has a tough first half of the schedule, but should more than make up for it in 'the second half. Union's forte is definitely the outfield. Roaming the plains are Freshman Andy Dreher in left field, Junior Dan Thomson in center and Freshman Mike Saccocio, and \Betsy\ the wonderglove, in right. All three possess terrific speed, and strong, accurate arms. Thomson is the orily returning outfielder and batted only .200 last year, but is expected to up that mark considerably this year. The infield includes only one new face, that of Freshman Todd Fobare at third base. He has quickness, speed and strength, and will undoubtedly play an important role in Union's successes this year. Sophomore AI DiLibro is back for his second year at shortstop and is expected to be the same consistent fielder that he was last season while improving. on his respectable .260 batting average. At second base is Junior Steve Goll, who saw • limited action last year, but has already proven hi.mself defensively in the first three games. With the aid of DiLibro, Goll turned a picturesque double play against powerhouse LeMoyne, and made an acrobatic stop of a hard .grounder before gunning out the runner against RPI. Senior captain Joe Lavery rounds out the infield at first base while occasionally doubling as a pitcher. Lavery batted .295 last year after finishing with a flurry. He has power, speed and a strong arm and will be an important figure on the team. When Lavery is_ doing his mound duties, Sophomore Paul McGrath will play first base. Behind the plate is Senior Damien Quinn, who has hit the ball hard so far this season, and hopefully can control the pit- chers while keeping the baserunners from advancing. The backup catchers are Sophomore Kevin Wolf, and Freshman , George Oberstadt, who can also play the outfield. A large part of the burden lies on the pitchers. For the first time since his coaching days began, Sakala is going with only five pitchers, hoping they can take the strain of five. or six games a week. Leading an experienced crew is Sophtmore Glenn Kinns who was 5-3 last year with a 2.39 E.H.A. Junior Wayne Riker was 3-2 last year with a 4.22 E.H.A., and· Joe Lavery was 3-1 with a 3.86 E. R.A. Senior righthanders Dave Chused and Mike Hogan will do the relieving and have occasional spot-starts. If the pitching staff can lower their walks per game ratio of 5.5 from a year ago, they will surely have a fine season. Last week was not the auspicious beginning Union was hoping for as they followed a 3...0 loss at the hands of RPI, with a double defeat -l:;ly LeMoyne, 4-0 and 7-l. In the RPI game, Union only managed two hits while Kinns allowed seven. Despite the lack of offensive output, the defense did an exceptional job at running down fly balls and stopping sharp grounders. Sophomore transfer Tom Fletcher laced a pitch into left field for the only solid hit, while Mike Saccocio skillfully placed a .curveball into rightfield for the other hit. Kinns struck out five and walked four in 7 and two thirds innings and was replaced by Dave Chused who pitched near perfect ball for the remainder of the game, allowing just one walk. Against LeMoyne, Wayne Riker started the first game and pitched admirably for 4 and two thirds innings allowing just two earned runs, woile striking out one and walking four. Chused completed the fifth inning for \ Soph pitching ·ace Glenn Kinns Riker without allowing a run, and then Mike Hogan finished · the game without gi:ving up a hit. Union scor·ed its firSt run .of the young season in the second game when Todd Fobare lined .a single to left, driving in Dan Thomson who had reached third after a single, followed by an Oberstadt sacrifice .and a stolen base. The Dutchmen collected seven hits in the contest, tbeir best showing so far. Sophomore Fred Brown had two hits in as many at bats to lead Union. Joe Lavery pitc):led four innings allowing seven runs, only foul' of which wer'e earned, walked three and struck out none. Dave Chused,- who has -appeared -in each game, again put out the fire while striking out one and walking none. - The home games are played at beautiful Central Park and everyone is invited to attend and support the team. This week's games include today at Colgate, a double-header, Saturday at Central Park against Clarkson, a single home game Monday versus Siena, antl.a road game at arch-rival RPI on Tuesday to ·rap up a busy ea_rly season week. Tennis Even At 1-1 I Captain Roy Lipson Ruggers Unbeaten byANDYCAPP Union Ruggers improved their record to 2-0 as they defeated Albany Med 3-0 this ,saturday. Even though they displayed continued offensive pressure they lacked the extra spark needed to score. The line was unable to cross the goal line even with the combination of experience and new talent that veteran Jeff Heisler and rookie Terry Wiber displayed. A ' strong wind gave the foot of Danny Nay some trouble as he connected on only one of four attempts. The serums defensive play kept Albany scoreless and Danny's 3 points was all that was necessary for a Union victory. This weekend will Colgate will host Hobart, Clarkson and Union for their annual Colgate rugby tournament. Even tho~ugh Union is undefeated they will be looken upon as underdogs this weekend. Some consider these teams out of Union's league, but this is a fine opportunity for Union rugby to make a name for themselves. As a veteran rugget I see a Union triumph as a definite possibility and I wish them the best of luck. After two early season rainouts this spring, the Union College Tennis Team evened its record at 1-1 with· a disap- pointing loss to Williams, followed by an impressive show of strength against Skidmore. This year the team is under the full time guidance of Coach Al Bagnoli. Union is again ·for- tunate to have Inderjit Singh help out with the technical aspects.· 1\gainst the Williams perennial powerhouse, Union, for the first time in four years, had four three-set matches. In . the past, Union squads have been unable to go further than two sets against Williams. This year's 8-lloss was much closer than the score indicates because of four very close matches. Jeff Cohen, Tom Lestina, and freshman Bob Stratton lost 3 set matches at the number three, four, and five singles positions. Union's only win of the day was finished at dusk with number 1 · doubles team of Jeff Cohen and Roy Lipson coming through in the third set. They won 6-4, 2-6, 7-6. This Saturday Union em- harassed the Skidmore squad at Saratoga. Union won 8-1. The only loss for Union was an unfortunate one in that fresh- man Bob Stratton was injured. He had to withdraw after leading 4-2 in the first set. A recent ankle operation acted up and caused him to resign. Other than that, Union won down the line. Number 1 singler Roy Lipson won 6-0, 6-4. Doug Rice, at number 2, lost the first set 1- 6~ but came back in the second to end up the 1-6, 7.:5, 6.:.0 victory. Jeff Cohen, at number 3 had an easier time, winning 6-1, 7-5. Tom Lestina, a consistent finisher, had an _ easy time ... -winning at number 4-6, 6-2, 6-2. At mim.ber 6, junior Barry Rosen berg showed that he could win when he puts his mind to it with an impressive 6-0, 6-1 annihilation. First doubles Roy Lipson and Jeff Cohen coasted to a 6-0, 6-0 victory, while number 2 doubles Doug Rice and Dave \Space\ Patalita won 6-4, 6-4. Number 3 doubles saw Tom Lestina and Howard \Stocks\ Brodsky win 7-6, 6-1. All in .all it was a satisfying day. Tbe team's next match is Wednesday, against Hobart. Hobart has beaten Union 5-4 for the past two years, and this year's squad loaks to reverse that . .pn Saturday, Union plays and always strong Albany squad at home. Sports· Hap:pening Aprii17-April24 Varsity Lacrosse April 19 vs. Middlebury April21 vs .. Colgate April 23 at Albany Baseball Track Tennis April 17 at Colgate Apri I 19 vs. Clarkson ( 2) Aprill22vs. Si.ena April.23 at R PI April19 Binghamton, Mansfield at Binghamton c April23vs. Hamilton at Schenec:tady Community College AprH22 vs. Albany Golf April17 Hartwick, Hamilton at Hartwick April 21 at Siena JV Lacrosse Aprill9 vs. Middlebury April 22 at Skidmore Softba II Apri I 17 at Albany Apri 122 at Ulster Apr i I 2 4 v s . R P I Women's Lacrosse Aprill7 CA&B)at Russell Sage Aprill9 (A&H) vs. Ha.rtwick April24 (A&B) at Oneonta Fu] byELtEN 1 andEDWA: The Campaig $38 million fu officially ina1 convocation Chapel Saturda goal of the cam Union's endow million to $60 provide an add; in operating ca' Annual Func initiated in 197 has thus far at and pledges million or over goal. Of this . million has be the Annual Fur is going into 1 dowment. The College the pledged $7.5 total. Through thi College is seE support in l Ramee cam{ and Engint professorshiJ ships. Most . presently pla the Ramee renovation ol financed thrc Stanley R. Be hall will now ' was describec and delightfU: Becker spoke donating m1 intended for Old Gym Hal was that he· to have a bu functional ar . Annua Tru byEt andMJ The Bo gathered o weekend fc board 1 standably morning ''Campai~ dowment position or on the we result, tl committeE discuss an the past most pa various r bring the campus a general o of facet~ previousl: body .. Most of past weel the area with the endowme official b Dean c Kellett a Affairs { that w forma tic Discussit future proveme the ad-h< and sorll that th< conjunc1 Center sidering

Fund Drive Begins by ELLEN VAN DYKE and EDWARD ALBRO The Campaign for Union, a $38 million fund drive, was offi~iaUy inaugurated at a convocation in Memorial Chapel Saturday, Apri:l19. The goal of the campaign is to raise Union's endowment from· $30 million to $60 million and to provide an additional $8 million in operating Gapital through the . Annual Fund. Unofficially initiated in 1977, the Campa~gn has thus far accumulated gifts and pledges exceeding $16 million or over 44 percent of its goal. Of this $16 million, $2.3 million bas been coliiUllitted to the Annual Fund and $l4million is going. into the College's en- dowment. The Trustees of the College tbemselves have pledged $7.5 million_ of that total. Adrriissions Office \leaves an indelible first impression'' on prospective students. Plans for the renovation include · re.building the interior and repairing the exterior image of the building. Further en- dowments of the Ramee Campus are expected · in the near future. At this point, only one change is planned for tlle SGience .and Engineering Center. Funds have been donated to· refurbish the Vladimir Rojansky lecture room. These fundS are a gift .from Robert B. Enemark, class of 1950. were, \Try it, you'll like it.\ The A:nnual Fund, the second component of _the Campaign, has already received $2.3 million of its $8 million gQal. Union's Annual Funa, first established as the Graduate Fund in 1912 _by Charles Waldron, is believed to be the oldest Uninterrupted program of its ·kind in - the country. During Saturday's ceremony, Mr. Waldron, class of 1906, was posthumously awarded the Union College Founders Medal in recognition of his service to the College. His son, William, accepted the medal in behalf of his rnotber, who could not be present -at the ceremony. . Describing the Campaign as the \single hardest undertaking .ijl Union's history,\ Chairman Richard. Day, Jr., spoke about Continued on page 8 April 24, 1980 Volume 109, No. 20 • Old Gym Hall Through this Campaigl)., the College is seeking endowment support in fou~ are~s:- the Ramee campus, the. Science and Engineering Center, professorships, and scholar- ships. Most. ambitious of the presently planned changes for the Ramee campus is the renovation of Old .Gym Hall, financed through a gift :from Stanley R. Becker for whom the hall will now be named. In what was described as \an emotional and delightful mement for me,\ Becker spoke of his reasons for donating money specifically intended for the renovation of Old Gym Hall. His major reason was that he wishes the College to havEt a building that is .both functional and aesthetic as the Five new professorships, aU endowed with at least $750,000, have been created. These five are the May I. Baker chair in Arts, the Edward E. Hale chair in English, the Washington Irving professorship, tbe Gilbert R. Livingston chair in Psychology, and the Chauncey H. Winters chair in Economic Thought .. These professorships are designed. to help. Union attract and retain faculty members who Will continue the traditio_n of academic ex- cellence found at the College. The scholarship drive has a goal of $6 million. Already, one fund, the' Gilligan Scholarship, has been established as- a gift of Kenneth Whalen, Class of f949· and life Trustee of Union. Speaking at. the convocation, Mr. Whalen stated his belief that all alumni who went to Union on scholarship have an ·Constitution And Grading At Issue: Student Government Vote . obligation to contribute to the fund drive. For those who ·are somewhat hesitant about giving, his words of advice · by EPWARD ALBRO. This Thursday and Friday, April 24th and 25th, from 10:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. in Carnegie Hall, a vote of the entire student body will be held on the proposed Student Government constitution and the issue of Plus-Minus grading. In order for the new constitution to be adopted; votes must be received from fifty percent ·of the student body and two-thirds of -those Annual Spring Meeting: Trustees~ Visit Campus by ED LONERGAN and MARK BURNETT and structural changes~ Of note nities and sororities. is the possible \beautification\ Dean Kellett noted that the of the first floor (Pub) entrance report is presently being to the building and renovation of reviewed by the Inter- the restrooms outside the Pub. Fraternity Council (IFC), and As this ~rea receives a lot of will be implemented following traffic, including prospective the integration of IFC recom- candidates for admission, it is mendations into the report. The The Board of Trustees gathered on campus this past weekend for the annual sprilig board meeting. Under- standably, the Saturday morning ''kickoff'' of the \Campaign for Union\ en- dowment drive occupied a position of primary importance on the weekend agenda. As a result, the vfirious Board committees met primarily to discuss and.reviewthe events of the past term. While . for the most part unexciting, the various meetings seemed to bring the Board up to date on campus affairs and provided a general overview of a number of facets of life at Union previously unconsidered by this body .. Most of the excitement of this past weekend was generated fn the area of College Resources, with the Campaign for Union endowment drive receiving its official beginning. Dean of Students Robert H. felt that . such changes are ·of Board approved a number of primary importance. The Dean the proposals; expressing its noticed that no action was to be belief that both the school and taken at this time, but felt that fraternity system · will benefit the Board should be informed of from its implementation. Also the progress to date and the on the subject of the fraternity- plans for the future. sorority system, the Dean noted The remainder of the meeting that a number of national was devoted to discussion of the sororities have been invited ·to various facets of the ad-hoc appear on C'ampus next year in committee report on frater- Cont~ued on page 9 votes must be affirmative. Therefore, it is impor:tartt that students make an effort to cast their votes. Student Forum members Ken Plumb, Dave O'Connor~ artd Will lloyd all agreed that the new constitution is necessa:ty for two important reasons. The most basiC reason is that, in the words of' Will Lloyd, the old constitution simply \wasn't working in the way it was supposed to work.\ It was reported ·-that the old con- stitution was outdated and often not followed in all of its stipulations. The second reason for passage is the need for a document which will be in accord with the proposed new governance system. Forum President Plumb commented that in general, \we think we've got a much more complete document.'' The major proposed changes in Student Government come in the composition of the Student Forum. The size of the Forwn would increase from sixteen members to eighteen and the number of eleCted members would increase from the present ten to sixteen. Five of these positions, President, Vice President for Administration, -Vice President for Finance; and the Junior and Senior representatives to the Board of Trustees, would be elected by Kellett addressed the Student Affairs Committee on matters that wete primarily in- formational in nature. Discussion revolved arowtd the future utilization and · im- provement of Carnegie Hall and the ad-hoc report on fraternities and sororities. The Dean noted that the Administration, in conjunction with the College Center Committee,_ is con- sidering a vari~ty of aesthetic Union Trustees with President Morris the entire .student body. The other eleven elected members lould be chosen by the class for which they are representatives. The Senior, Junior, and Sophomore classes have three representatives each and, in an important change,·. the Fresh- man class would now have two representatives, who would join the Forum in the Winter term. The final two representatives · will be appointed, one serving also on the Academic Affairs Council and one a represen- tative of the Interfraternity Council. \We're hoping· that (these changes) will alleviate some of the problems we've had in the past,\ Will Lloyd said. The increase in elected officials is hoped to make the Forum more visible, to produce more contact between Forum members and the student body, alld to make representative's feel more responsible towards a specific constituency. In ad- dition, the newly created p~sition of Vice President for Finance is expected to help solve many of the recent problems in the operation of the 'Tax Committee. \This document in itself cannot make Student Government better,\ Dave O'Connor said, \but it gives members a better vehicle in which to get things done. This is instrumental in improving Continued on page 9 SPECIAL ' - - -,, '-· - __ , ''P· ··· .. · .· a~a.ti:i.e~' • .. ···&Pv:t:-~ . .

~ i .. : . I Page 2 -Editorial-- Improve Athletic Facilities When the Campaign for Union was announced this past Saturday, one area of student activities seemed conspicuously absent. While channels were specifically established for contributions towards the Ramee campus, the Science and Engineering Center, professorships, and scholars;hips, absolutely no mention was made concern-ing athletics. This position hardly seems com- mensurate with the actual conditions of facilities at Union. The Science and Engineering Center constitutes one of the most modern facilities at the College and the buildings of the Ramee campus, while not always in the best condition, are certainly adequate. Athletic facUlties, on the other hand, are utterly inadequate. Alumni Gym is the most egregious example of this condition. The basketball floor is rapidly deteriorating beyond the point of repair. Because the pool is not regulation stze, none of the times taken at meets are official and therefore cannot be used to establ1sh records. Having only one racquetball court makes it ex- tremely difficult to get court time as there are far more players than avai~ble hours. The conditions in the locker rooms are deplorable and the list of com- plaints against Alumni Gym goes on and on. It is, in short, an atrocious facility. In addition, the College has no outdoor track facility, no baseball field, and the conditions .of the library and Daley fields are very poor. The field.house and Achilles Rink are more satisfactory buildings, but they are certainly not capable of filling an of the College's needs. While we acknowledge that fund rai'sing for athletic facilities on a predominantly academic campus may be difficult, we feelthat athletics at Union presents a crying need for improvement. It is a grave error for the Campaign to officially ignore this sector of campus life. -Guest Editorial-- Prospective Student Needs by DANIEL ROSENFIELD When a prospective student comes to a college campus for the first time, often he is boggled by what he sees. This distorts the view of the school that the can- didate takes home with him. As the population of school-age children drops, admissions departments in schools all around the country are looJd,ng for ways to help keep their applicant pools up. - The Admissions Department at Union and a group of students have come up with a program that they feel will help solve the imminent problems of main- taining the quality and number of applicants. The goal~ this program will be to make the applicant leave Union with a better picture than they have of any other campus. To do this, the applicant must feel at ease in his new surroundings. This will be , accomplished in two ways. · First, the applicant must be mentally comfortable. This means that he Should be paired with a host who has similar interests. Further, the applicant should be staying in a place that is easy to find, always open,. and where other hosts are that a candidate can spend time with. This is important because if the student is . busy worrying about being a nuisance, say, to the host's roommate, who may or may not be receptive to the applicant, he will not be thin_king about the College. This is not conducive to the student's opinion about the school. Secondly, the applicant should be physically comfortable. He should be the second, not the third, man in the room. When he comes, he should be supplied with linens, toothbrush, toothpaste, and all of the other things that he may well ' have forgotten. Most applicants in their effort to be impressive would rather be uncomfortable. They will come away with a better picture of Union if they do not have these worries. Obviously, a place is needed for this program. The one proposed is Smith House. It is true that Smith House would no longer be available to the general student body. However, it would still house students. The students would be picked from the host program. But any student Will be able to join. Further, the students living in Smith will not be getting something for no~ing. They will be hosting at least two or three prospective students per month. This is a sizable commitment. It is a fair trade, The importance of maintaining a sufficiently large and qualified applicant pool is obvious. In the future this is going to become harder and harder without some program. The majority of students and faculty who have been asked about this prospectiv~ program have voiced their enthusiastic support. Any, comments or s.uggestions you would like to make will be welcome. Please leave them with the admissions secretary in Old Gym Hall by April28. union c.a... • .. concor01en616 editor-in-chief \\ donna creeley managing editor jim davis news editors ed albro; ellen van dyke features editors barb plotkin, paul grossman arts editor ,, mandy abrams photo editors pam ryan, norm pflaster rtsdit . ~~ spo e or bill. curtm· assistant sports editor women's sports editor chris phelan layout editors sue marr, rachelmandel copy editor ellen rubin business managers juliMsgro, larry Ieavitt suJ)scription editor sara simmons calendar ellen berger, maria inanfredo~ staff sharon camins, paul feinsot, alan binkow photo staff frank skorina, sara simmons CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body, of. Union College, Carnegie Hall,. Schenectady, \New York, 12308; ~Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications Inc .. 8lh Reynolds Avenue, Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schen~ctady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year,.delivered anywhere in the United States. Look Out!! For detai Is of \' Camp Union 1980 SATUIDAY , · May 24 - All Day Beer N Food- -Games- Live Music ,. . Social Committee Meeting • Monday 4J2f 7:30 p.m. Camegit Com1 ATTENTI 1981, 198: Applications the followin the 1980,.81 ~ available on in the Stude in Carnegie. College S• Academic Student Aft council on Planning I sultation Committee LiasonCom Liason Con Operatiom Academic~ Stlldent 1 College Ce

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, Ap.riZ ~4, 1980 -Editorial- Improve Athletic Facilities When the Campaign for Union was announced this past Saturday, one area of student activities seemed conspicuously absent. While channels were specifically established for contributions towards the Ramee campus, the Science and Engineering Center, professorships, and scholarships, absolutely no mention was made concerning athletics. This position hardly seems com- mensYrate with the actual conditions of facilities at Union. The Science and Engineering Center constitutes one of the most modem faciliUes at the College and the buildings of the Ramee campus, while not always in the best condition, are certainly adequate. Athletic facilities, on the othe·r hand, are utterly inadequate. Alumni Gym is the most egregious example of this condition. The basketball floor is rapidly deteriorating beyond the point of repair. Because the pool is not regulation size, none of the times taken at meets are official and therefore cannot be used to establ1sh records. Having only one racquetball court makes it ex- tremely difficult to get court time as there are far more players than available hours. The conditions in the locker rooms are deplorable and the list of com- plaints against Alumni Gym goes on and on. It is, in short, an atrocious facility. In addition, the College has no outdoor track facility, no baseball field, and the conditions of the library and Daley fields are very poor. The fieldhouse and Achilles Rink are more satisfactory buildings, but they are certainly not capable of filling all of the College's needs. While we acknowledge that fund raising for athletic facilities on a predominantly academic campus may be difficult, we feel that athletics at Union presents a crying need for improvement. It is a grave error for the Campaign to officially ignore this sector of campus life. -Guest Editorial- Prospective Student Needs by DANIEL ROSENFIELD When a prospective student comes to a college campus for the first time, often he is boggled by what he sees. This distorts the view of the school that the can- didate takes home with him. As the population of school-age children drops, admissions departments in schools all around the country are looking for ways to help keep their applicant pools up. The Admissions Department at Union and a group of students have come up with a program that they feel will help solve the imminent problems of main- taining the quality and number of applicants. The goal of this program will be to make the applicant leave Union with a better picture than they have of any other campus. To do this, the applicant must feel at ease in his new surroundings. This will be accomplished in two ways. · First, the applicant must be mentally comfortable. This means that he should be paired with a host who has similar interests. Further, the applicant should be staying in a place that is easy to find, always open, and where other hosts are that a candidate can spend time with. This is important because if the student is busy worrying about being a nuisance, say, to the host's roommate, who may or may not be receptive to the applicant, he will not be thinking about the College. This is not conducive to the student's opinion about the school. Secondly, the applicant should be physically comfortable. He should be the second, not the third, man in the room. When he comes, he should be supplied with linens, toothbrush, toothpaste, and all of the other things that he may well have forgotten. Most applicants in their effort to be impressive would rather be uncomfortable. They will come away with a better picture of Union if they do not have these worries. Obviously, a place is needed for this program. The one proposed is Smith House. It is true that Smith House would no longer be available to the general student body. However, it would still house students. The students would be picked from the host program. But any student will be able to join. Further, the students living in Smith will not be getting something for not)jling. They will be hosting at least two or three prospective students per month. This is a sizable commitment. It is a fair trade, The importance of maintaining a sufficiently large and qualified applicant pool is obvious. In the future this is going to become harder and harder without some program. The majority of students and faculty who have been asked about this prospective program have voiced their enthusiastic support. Any comments or suggestions you would like to make will be welcome. Please leave them with the admissions secretary in Old Gym Hall by April28. union (01... • . concor01ens15 editor-in-chief donna creeley managing editor jim davis news editors ed albro, ellen van dyke features editors barb plotkin, paul grossman arts editor mandy abrams photo editors pam ryan, norm pflaster sports editor rich hope assistant sports editor bill curtin women's sports editor chris phelan layout editors sue marr, rachel mandel copyeditor ellenrubin business managers julie isgro, larry leavitt subscription editor sara simmons calendar ellen berger, maria manfredonia staff sharon camins, paul feinsot, alan binkow photo staff frank skorina, sara Simmons CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the s~ud~nt body. of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, -New York, 12308; -Pubhcabons Office: Susquehanna Publications Inc. 8% Reynolds Avenue, Oneonta, New York 13820, (607) 432-6737. Entered in the Schen~ctady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. ' . able to skate for a small cba:rge. Search For Members. To the Editor: - Lots nf great food will also available for a nomin{ll charge and beer will be provided free all day. Other features will be I don't understand. It doesn't make sense. Someone please explain why a newspaper, which ranted and raved about the apathy of students at Union, placed the notice regarding committee applications on page 11. One of the major ways in which students at Union can become involved with the College is through committees. Yet the notification concerning · committees and applications for these committees was buried in the back of the paper. Hopefully, this letter will not suffer a similar fate. For those interested, committee ap- plications are available in the - Student Activities office (they have been there since Monday). The completed applications must be returned to the Student Activities office by 4: 30, Friday. . May 2. Please take interest and apply; I am sick oJ listening about student apathy. publieized as they become of· ficial, and still others will be kept as surprises Wltil Camp Union itself. · To climax: the day, we have planned a free outdoor per~ forman<:e by none other than Jerry Jeff Walker, perhaps best known f(}r writing \Mr. Bojangles.\ Beer will be freely flowing. In case of inclement weather, Memorial C'hapel has been reserved for that evening. This day should prove to be quite a success, but we need campus support and par- ticipation. We are toying with the idea of having student or faculty acts during the day, along with the bands already ·scheduled. Anyone interested in performing at Camp Union should contact Nevin Dubil} at 382-9396, or drop a line to &x 2147. Anyone who would like to pitch in. that day, food, selling t·shirts, or just helr>ing out in general, is urged, to Katie Martin at 370-6467. We would appreciate any and Douglas Cox help offered. Please help us Class 6f \81~· · make this the best camp •· Spripgteitm~t,Q'ni()n'l.s a,~iin¢. · shake off the· chill of winter and to really enjoy some good, clean fun in the beautiful spring warmth. For the past two spring. terms, the Social · Committee has put together a day where everything is geared towards enjoyment and letting loose-a day where the only labor that is· required is finding a cozy spot to sit hack, and enjoy the live music and the only decision that has to be made is whether or not to go for that senventeenth burger. The day appropriately named· \Camp Union\ for its nncanny resemblance to a summer camp, is scheduled this spring... for Saturday, May 24. The first two Camp Unions were overwhelming successes, and this year we are planning an even bigger event than ever before. WRUC has joined forces . with us for this year's ex~ travaganza. Among the at~ tractions and fe~tivipes will be ·live music from a host of bands, which will be broadcast live on WRUC. The Union t~shirt as well as the best day of year:. Thank ;vau. lric,ks For Softball To the Concerned: :t paid $5;000 to Union College this year with plans to pay even more next year. For what? I thought I was paying these big bucks to a school that that a studenes life outside the classroom forms an important part of his or her total education~ and that sounetim~~l? extracurricular .activity can as significant to a student as the formal academic work.\ These ate the words written in this year's Union College catalog. I doubt thRse words. I'm cur'rently a sophomore but it didn't take me until, now to realize that our intramural departln.ent need.s. to be taken a long look at. Have you ever tried to play an organized game of softball with a brick for first base? How about playing witho'uta ·. ·. .· · . It's time that • · · ... starte9 ·· money ( ac:tm~y Look Out!! For details of Camp Union 1980 SATURDAY , May 24 • All Day Beer- Food- - Games A Live Music • Social Committee Meeting • Monday 4/21 7:30 p.m. Camegit . tll$( ·. t 'H$hi ~nn1tlrl:unit:v to i learn news over int a fine b making g• Disorganizat! pant. Roster ru. forced. They are usually withput consequence~ l was stated that play on a~ HA ; sqnad. Thts.-deJ purpose of havi of different 16' rnakes for m< duplicated rostE packed schedul· listen to me tl changed the rul later, after the tafided in. I'm not going and space to br with the sport~ season. I ·hopE can be done s01 situation. I'm anything. th~ doesn't alread rather, a litt return, besi educat!on, for Com• ATTENTH 1981' 1982 Applications the followin~ the 1980-81 s1 available on 1 in the Studer in Carnegie. College Se Academic Student Aff: council on Planning tS sultation Committee LiasonComJ Liason Com Operations AcademicS· Student F College Cei

OONOOR:DIFJNSIS, .ApriZ ~4, .1980 PageS ·Union Days & Nites: Wh·at We're Here For by JIM DAVIS Not too long ago; a friend tQld me th:(lt he thought the College should be more liberal in awarding.students course credit for practical knowledge they've ~ picked up. ·&' • He took for an . example E foreign languages. Ify-ou know, ro let's say, the equivalent of two a.. years; worth of Italian, why 1l shotildn ;t you be able to take a .E competency exam Whose _g passing would entitle you to an a. appropriate amount of credit? On the.surface, this argument mightmake sense-especially to someone who's struggling to m.ake ends meet and satisfy all the distribution requirements set by the Uberal Learning program. But, after some thought, most will see that ·this reasoning really misses the mark ·of what a college education is supposed to pl'ovide. The reason why an institution like Union exists is to better prepare its students for the sitaations they'll face after graduation. Especially at a place like this, where the liberal arts are stressed, this is the • intent. Jim Davis really isn't to give you the skills that will qualify you for em- ployment in a trade. Someone who's looking for that sort of thing would do well to check into a vocational school. Or one of those Jearn-at- home programs advertised on match-'book covers. But not Union or any similar place. Because practical experience isn't the- reason for liberal arts institution&~ (Union, 1 know, also offers engineering programs. While this thinking might not be as relevant to these fields, it does remain valid, I think. Don't forget that many engineering majors go on to graduate school prior to beginning fuH-time em- ployment.) becoming a dilettante, there'd be no problem convincing Computer Science majors to take courses in East Asian Culture or American Studies majors, like myself, to try a physics lab session. We'd want to dabble in a little of this and a little of that. And wouldn't care if we passed or failed, because the learning process would make us better people. Of course, though, this isn't true. Pre-professionalism (law, medicine or whatever l has something to do with this reluctance. But every person also has his own interests. I don't care to find out ·inore than 1 already know about caveman fossils. · But, on our own, some of us might never choose to venture out of our area of specialty. And college students are really too young to get so stuck in their ways. That's why distribution requirements were established. Committee Ap.plicatio-ns But in today's realities, there's often a fair-sized gap l>etween- this intent and what really happens. We all know _ that the fact is there probably W()n't be enough jobs for all of u.s upon graduation. This isn't to say that practical experience doesn't have its place in a Union student's program. Rather, practical experience shouldn't be treated as the equivalent of course work. Since even a small college like Union has a relatively large nwnber of different courses to choose from, the little oit of intellectual venturing Liberal Learning requires probably won't hurt. In fact, it might even turn on some new lights that will lead in a whole new, previously unexplored direc- tion. Some may hav-e bones to pick with the specifications of Union's requirements--that they're too lax or stringent, or that not enough attenti<>n is paid to the effect of too much snow and rain on students' learning capabilities. ATTEN'l'ION: Classes of 1981, 1982, and 1983: Applications for positions for the following comrri.ittees for the 1980,-81 school year will be available on Monday, April 21st, in the Student Activities Of._fice in Carnegie. College Senate Connnittees: Academic Affairs Council, Student Affairs Council, Sub· council on Student Conduct, Planning & Priorities Con· sultation Group, Liason Committee for Admissions, Liason Committee for Athletics, Liason Committee for Campus Operations, Subcouncil on Academic Standing of Students. Student Forum Committees: College Center, Committee on Committees, Concert, Elec- tions, Film, Social, Speakers Forum, Tax, Traffic and Pet Court. lf anyone wishes to be con- sidered for a position as a chairman for any Student Forum Committee, there will be an additional application also in tne Student ActiVities Office. All applications · are due Friday, May 2nd, by 4:30p.m. in the Student Activities Office. If you have any questions, feel free to call any member on Committee on Committees: Will Lloyd, · 370-6906; Bill Meehan, 382-8863; Dave O'Connor (chairman), 382-9582; Marla Shore, 370-6706; Andrew Wisoff, 370-6903. · So instead of trying to become a better developed, well rounded individual during our four undergraduate years, many of us have our sights much more clearly focused on what we're going to do to earn a living and how our College courses will help in realizing that goal. · Which isn't, in itself, a bad perspective. Because being able to recite the Greek Classics isn't going to do you a. whole lot of good while you're waiting in the unemployment line. Once again, though, the flaw in this justification is that it misses its point. Wben all is said and done, the primary purpose of spending four years at Union Experience it! EDUCATION BANKING ' GOVERNMENT RESTAURANTS your CENTER for. ENTERTAINMENT PROFESSIONALS SHOPPING SERVICE Welcome Parents! liVING TRAVEl RECREATION and, CUL lURE .· • • Those who are looking to gain such \real world\ knowledge should.. do it-by taking time off either before or during college to travel or work. When he or she returns to school, such an individual will probably be more sophisticated, in the literal sense of the word, and better able to make use of what Union offers-both in and out of the classroom. But the person who returns with this experience under his or h,er belt shouldn't expect that to be treated as college work. Because it's not. It's like killing two birds with one stone. While this may appeal to the more pragmatic or economy-minded, it violates the intent of what Union has to offer. Related to this are the topics of Liberal Learning distribution requirements and the availability of \pass-fail\ grading. \ Ideally, neither should be necessary. If everyone came here lo~king t<? spend four years But these are really personal concerns. All Liberal Learning is supposed to do is provide a framework for liberal education; it's up to tbe in· dividual to fill in the con· struction in the way most beneficial for him or herself. And for some, this might mean more than the two pass- fail courses a student is allowed to take during each academic year. Again, it's a personal thing. I wouldn't do it; nor, ideally, would anyone want to. But those who do won't cause a Union degree to be worth any less for the rest of us, I don't think. College exists as part of-a prelude, some may say-the real world. And while institutions that specialize in liberal arts shouldn't be expected to ac- tively incorporate this larger entity into their programs, they must, at the same time, acknowledge its presence and make allowances for it. Elections May 1 Petitions Available May 6 Concordy Statements due May 9 Petitions due May 13 ELECTIONS May lS Runoffs (if necessary) Referendum to Be Held Student Body Constitution Pass-Fail Grading System Thursday, April 24th and Friday April 25th All Classes may participate Seniors • Caps & Gowns for Graduation Contract Price until 5-15-80 Bachelor $12 38 Master $12.79 tax included After 5-15 - 5-30 $3 additional No orders after June 1st

' ., I I I I @ge tU$0 . the eDt ·H$b{)Uld e tPe oppartunUy to . improve _ sk~Ls and learn new sports· that wlll over int(} later life. 'n •\'·\\ ... +'\ a fine belief, buC how making good on it? Disorganization runs ram· pant. Roster rUles are :not en· forced. Tbey are changed often, usually withput regard ... - to th:e consequence~ For exalllple, 1t was stated that a person e<luld play on an \A and B't softball squad. This--defeats ·the who-le purpose of having two leagu'Els of different levels. This also makes for more teams and duplicated rosters in an already packed schedule. They wouldn't listen to me that night, They changed the rule again two da yg., .. later, after the rosters had b~n . naMed in. I'm not going to take tile time and space to bring out the fR\JltS with the sports that are out of season.. 1- hope that something . can be done soon to impr()ve ihe situation. I'm not asking for anything that the College doesn't already believtJ i.n, but rather, a littre something' in return, besides classroom educat~{)n, for our mDney. Sili:eere1y ~ .John Sammarco Classof'32 CONOORDIENSIS, April 24) 1980 Page 3 To the Editor: It is cliStomary ·for newspaper columnists to their picture accompany work. Bllt it surprises me Coneordy employs this at all. Furthermore, it that a ·writer, nam~ly Davis, can receive this <;!!.'<;''\'~~·\ treatm,ent after almost away from Union. Is Jim such a talented writer? As former ·contributor to ceordi·ensi11, I believe practice to be .unfair to the rest of -. the bard-working writers. Please take action beeam!e I am not the only one who feels this way. Anonymous P .S. l d-o not mean this to be a personal cut against Jim Davis. ED11'(}R'S NOTE: This newspaper has initiated a policy of running regular columnists' pietures with their stories. Jim Davis's was the picture available,\ but an will S()on receive similar Union Days 8 Nites: What We're Here For by JIM DAVIS Not too long ago, a friend told me that he thought the College should be more liberal in a warding students course credit c: for practical knowledge they've Ill >- picked up. ~ He took for an example E foreign languages. If you know, ~ let's say, the equivalent of two years' w0rth of Italian, why 1i shouldn't you be able to take a 2 competency exam whose ~ passing would entitle you to an appropriate amount of credit? On the surface, this argument might make sense-especially to someone who's struggling to make ends meet and satisfy all the distribution requirements set by the Liberal Learning program. But, after some thought, most will see that this reasoning reaHy misses the mark ·of what a college education is supposed to provide. The reason why an institution like Union exists is to better prepare its students for the situations they'll face after graduation. Especially at a place like this, where the liberal arts are stressed, this is the intent. Jim Davis really isn't to gtve you the skills that will qualify you for em- ployment in a trade. Someone who's looking for that sort of thing would do well to check into a vocational school. Or one of those learn-at- home programs advertised on match-book covers. But not Union or any similar place. Because practical experience isn't the- reason for liberal arts institutions. (Unien, I know, also offers engineering programs. While this thinking might not be as relevant to these fields. it does remain valid, I think. Don't forget that many engineering majors go on to graduate school prior to beginning full-time em- ployment.) becommg a dilettante, there'd be t:~o problem convincing Computer Science majors to take courses in East Asian Culture or American Studies majors, like myself, to try a physics lab session. We'd want to dabble in a little of this and a little of that. And wouldn't care if we passed or failed, because the learning process would make us better people. Of course, though, this isn't true. Pre-professionalism (law. medicine or whatever) has something to do with this reluctance. Btlt every person also has his own interests. I don't care to find out more than I already know abou.t caveman fossils. But, on our own, some of us might never choose to venture out of our area of specialty. And college studet:~ts are really too young to get so stuck in their ways. That's why distribution requirements were established. Committee Applications But in today' s realities, there's often a fair-sized gap between this intent and what really happens. We all know that the fact is there probably won't be enough jobs for all of u,s upon graduation. This isn't to say that practical experience doesn't have its place in a Union student's program. Rather, practical experience shouldn't be treated as the equivalent of course work. Since even a small college like Union has a relatively large Rumber of different courses to choose from, the little bit of intellectual venturing Liberal Learning requires probably won't hurt. In fact, it might even turn on some new lights that will lead in a whole new, previously unexplored direc- tion. Some may have bones to pick with the specifications of Union's requirements--that they're too lax or stringent, or that not enough attention is paid to the effect of too much snow and rain on students' learning capabilities. ATTENTION: Classes of 1981, 1982, and 1983: Applications for positions for the following committees for the 1980-81 school year will be available on Monday, April 21st, in the Student Activities Office in Carnegie. College Senate Committees: Academic Affairs Collncil, Student Affairs Council, Sub- council on Student Conduct, Planning & Priorities Con- sultation Group, Liason Committee for Admissions, Liason Committee for Athletics, Liason Committee for Campus Operations, Subcouncil on Academic Standing of Students. Student Forum Committees: College Center, Committee on Committees, Concert, Elec- tions, Film, Social, Speakers Forum, Tax, Traffic and Pet Court. If anyone wishes to be con- sidered for a position as a chairman for any Student Forum Committee, there will be an additional application also in the Student Activities Office. All applications are due Friday, May 2nd, by 4:30 p.m. in the Student Activities Office. If you have any questions, feel free to call any member on Committee on Committees: Will Lloyd, · 370-6906; Bill Meehan, 382-8863; Dave O'Connor (chairman), 382-9582; Marla Shore, 370-6706; Andrew Wis()ff, 370-6903. So instead of trying to become a better developed, well rounded individual during our four undergraduate years, many of us have our sights much more clearly focused on what we're going to do to earn a living and how our College courses will help in realizing that goal. Which isn't, in itself, a bad perspective. Because being able to recite the Greek Classics isn't going to do you a whole lot of good while you're waiting in the unemployment line. Once again, though, the flaw in this justification is that it misses its point. When all is said and done, the primary purpose of spending four years at Union Experience it! your CENTER for. • • EDUCATION ENTERTAINMENT LIVING BANKING PROFESSIONALS TRAVEl GOVERNMENT SHOPPING RECREATION RESTAURANTS SERVICE and CULTURE Welcome Parents/ Those who are looking to gain such \real world\ knowledge should do it-by taking time off either before or during college to travel or work. When he or she returns to school, such an individual will probably be more sophisticated, in the literal sense of the word, and better able to make use of what Union offers-both in and out of the classroom. But the person who returns with this experience under his or her belt shouldn't expect that to be treated as college work. Because it's not. It's like killing two birds with one stone. While this may appeal to the more pragmatic or economy-minded, it violates the intent of what Union has to offer. Related to this are the topics of Liberal Learning distribution requirements and the availability of \pass-fail\ grading. Ideally, neither should be necessary. If everyone came here looking to spend four years But these are really personal concerns. All Liberal Learning is supposed to do is provide a framework for liberal education; it's up to the in- dividual to fill in the con- struction in the way most beneficial for him or herself. And for some, this might mean more than the two pass- fail courses a student is allowed to take during each academic year. Again, it's a personal thing. I wouldn't do it; nor, ideally, would anyone want to. But those who do won't cause a Union degree to be worth any less for the rest of us, I don't think. College exists as part of-a prelude, some may say-the real world. And while institutions that specialize in liberal arts shouldn't be expected to ac- tively incorporate this larger entity into their programs, they must, at the same time, acknowledge its presence and make allowances for it. Elections May 1 Petitions Available May 6 Concordy Statements due May 9 Petitions due May 13 ELECTIONS May 15 Runoffs (if necessary) Referendum to Be Held Student Body Constitution Pass-Fail Grading System Thursday, April 24th and Friday Apri I 25th All Classes may participate Seniors · Caps & Gowns for Graduation Contract Price until 5-15-80 Bachelor $12 38 Master $12.79 tax included After 5-15 - 5-30 $3 additional No orders after June 1st

Page 4 OONCORDIENSIS 1 April !4, 1980 arts ~culture '\ Album Review: 'The Pretenders'~) by ROBERT FOX ''PrenteA.dets'' is the imaginative name of the debut album by the band of the same name. The Prentenders; an English band, · consists of four musicians, led by lead vocalist, guitarist, and songwriter Chrissie Hynde. Chrissie could afford to concentrate more on her enunciation, but usually her voice stands out like the bright red jacket she sports on the album cover. Hynde wrote or co-wrote ten of the twelve sengs on the album, and she always sings lead vocals. The group is rounded out by bassist Pete Farndon, guitarist James Honeyman Scott, and Martin Chambers on the drums. The more I listen to this album, the more I like it, so give the Pretenders a chance. Sire Records Company may have a winner. In general, I find sides one and two very different. Much of side one consists of a repetitive, hard rock beat, accompanied by crude, but powerful lyrics. Side two is much more relaxed~ and the music seems a bit more sophisticated. Side one begins with the song \'Precious.\ In a sultry voice, Chrissie sets the stage for the crude sexual content of the album by telling us she wants to \Do it, do it, do it, do it on the pavement.\ The next three songs ate repetitive to the point of being boring. If there is a message in ''The Phone Call,\ is obscured by the raw sound of the rhythm guitars. Chrissie seems to have a faint hint of Stevie Nicks in her voice as she sings \Up The Neck,\ . but you wouldn't catch innocent Stevie singing these lyrics. Space Invader is an instrumental cut written by Farndon and Scott. It ends. with a recording of the sounds from the popular electronic game ''Space Invaders.\ Miss Hvnde does some fast talking on\ The Wait,\ and bassist Pete Farndon really· shines. The last song on side one is the Preten,ders rendition of a· Kink's oldie. Produced by Nick Lowe, \Stop Your Sobbing\ is extremely different from other- cuts on the album, and the variety it ~adds· is excellent. Cabaret Presents Its First Annual Gong Show On May 22nd Be Crazy / Be Serious Acts limited 5 Minutes Auditions April 29 I 30 (T IW) May 1 I 2 (Th, F) By Appt. Only Call Susan 6773 Parents Weekend 1st Act: TOM FARRELL VERNA LOWE 2nd Act: RUDY NYDEGGER CHARLIE TIDMARCH MC: BILL DICONZA Shows at 9:00 p.m. and 11 :00 p.m. Admittedly, I am biased on this topic. Stop Your Sobbing, a Ray Davies original, was near the top of the charts in my mind before the 'Pretenders arrived on the scene .. Ni,ck Lowe should get credit for this one; t-he sound quality is very good, especially the vocals near the end. Side two, on the whole, is much closer to easy listening, but no less exdting. What a few of the songs may lack in musical content .is made up by Hynde's commanding lyrics: \You ask me for advice, I said 'Baby use the door.'\ \Brass in Pocket,\ probably the best known song on the album, is co- Written by Chrissie and James Honeyman Scott. Chrissie · is -begging to be nOticed: \I'm gonna make you se~, tnere'.s nobody else here, no one like me. I'm special, so special, I gotta have some of your at- tention, give it to me.\ \Lovers of Today,'' is one of the longest songs on the album, and the.· most pleasing to my ears. Chrissie Hynde is anything but a proper lady, and the Pretenders are anything but old fashioned. Their first album is far from a great achievement, but it is well worth the time and money it costs to enjoy it. They may be a new band, but you're dreaming if you don't think the Pretenders are playing rock'n roll. They spell it out for us OJl the inner dust jacket: ''This album has a longer running time than most average LP's therefore to achieve maximum effect PLAY THIS ALBUM LOUD.\ Album Review: \Glove Shop Owner\ by Avfshai Shapiro Photos, On ·Exhibit t The Union Gallery at the Schenectady Museum will be exhibitrng photographs by Martin Benjamin, Jan 1 Perrin, and the students of the college from April 25 through- May 15. Benjamin is photography instructor at Union College, and his photographs have won numerous a wards locally and nationally; his wotk has been included in exhibitions around the United States. Perrin works at the college as gallery coor- dinator and supervisor of the photo labs. The student work exhibited was selected by Benjamin, archivist Ellen Fladger of the Schaffer Libtary at Union College, and Professor David · Nye, Chairman of the American Studies. Department, frjilm work made by students \over the last year, The opening reception will take place Saturday, April 25, from 7 to 9 p.m. at the Union Gallery in the Schenectady Museul;ll· Qn Nott Terrace Heights. The Gallery is open Tuesday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., and Saturday andSunday from noon to 5 p.m. Fpr further in- formation, please eall the Departm~nt of Arts at 370-6201. 'Keepin' The S~m,merAiive by JIM DAVIS Listen to the title cut on the Beach Boys' new album, \Keepin' the Summer Alive,\ and you'll have a pretty good idea of the whole package's strengths and weaknesses. The good news is that it lives up to its name. There are a lot of upbeat tunes that will sound like they were made for the spring and swnmer months ahead. Of course, not everyone likes warm weather or going to the beach. That's why some might have fault to find with this ef- fort. Not so for this reviewer, who can recall many a time spent watching snow fall on the Nott Memorial, while wishing he was at Redondo Beach or Waikiki. And the title tune does a good job creating this kind of sum- mer-beach aura. Listening to it, we hear about \ice cream weather, when the girls sure do look better; and the guys try to give them a ride.\ It sounds so inviting that you're even sorrier the Spring Term here lasts so long .. Like the remainaer of the album, the song is backed with alluringly sweet harmonies arid what could be the most sophisticated an_!J p·omplete instrwnentals on any Beach Boys' recording. It's the ob- vious candidate to be released as a single and should have Top 40 written all over it. As the LP's first track, it sets the tone for what follows. Five of these remaining nine songs . were written by the team of Brian Wilson and Mike Love, wJ10 penned many of the group's legendary summertime odes. Their latest compositions don't match up to those earlier standards, but they're pleasant enough - head and shoulders · above lots of the trash that's clogged the air as of late. ·· · \Some of Your Love\ is the most distinctive of this :batch. Beginning with a catchy saxaphone solo, it fades into Mike's familiar nasal vocal. Here he's singing about a cheerleader who's \nwnber one in her class.\ The song's title tells you what he's looking for. Of the other four tunes, \Goin' On\ and \Oh Dar lin' \ are notable because they consider the downside of a love affair. But they contribute to the album's mood, nonetheless. After all, it has to rain sometimes, even during the summer!· _ Another Wilson-Love effort, \When Givls Get Together,\ wouldn't be much missed if it got ruined and swept away by those downpours. It's per• fm•med in a conversational style, and comes off as just- that: Someone telling you a story you never botherld to ask or care about. The same judgment can be passed on \School Day,\ an old Chuck Berry tune that's resurrected. The song is hopelessly dated .,.. first by the guitar licks that send you back to the 1950s and, more so, by the lyrics. · It's hard to accept with a straight face grown men celebrating \dear old golden ·rule days\ when everyone ·· stUdied ·American history and '· math, ami. waited for the clock to strike three so they could walk (remember, they're too young to drive) down to the candy store or malt shop. Let's be honest: The Beach Boys now have children practically old enough to do that. Far kinder is a tune called \Endless Harmony\. Written by Bruce Johnston, who produced the album and has been a part of the Beach Boys for the past 15 years, it's a kind of testimonial to the band, whose first release, \Surfin' '', in December 1961, came before some Union students were born. As the final track, it provides a fitting conclusion. And with this latest effort, the Beach Boys have contributed to t}:leir tradition of \Keepin 1 the Summer Alive\. r ' byPA:l, On Thursd 24 (tonight), oresent a or< O'Neil\'s ThE essential e psychologiea unified and singular teet Director D scene .three,. most import firemen of a are deep in ship, and as view their the ragin stokeholes. this bacl hungover, a heat. Yank the others i1 struggle at 1 this is actu and Yank i In this SCE lights of thE confvontat fundament< The unfear of this gail! a self-appo all men, dE not set·ve tl of society. most resp' tinning su crew. Wh superior 1 vades Ya \filthy bea is change< The yoru the hole companiE engineer; ·y1 c .. R N Beh

Page 4 OONCORDIENSIS, April 24, 1980 art6 ~culture am Album Review: 'The Pretenders') by ROBERT FOX \Prentenders\ is the imaginative name of the debut album by the band of the same name. The Prentenders, an English band, consists of four musicians~ led by lead vocalist, guitarist, and songwriter Chrissie Hynde. Chrissie could afford to concentrate more on her enunciation, but usuallv her voice stands out like the bright red jacket she sports on the album cover. Hynde wrote or co-wrote ten of the twelve songs on the album, and she always sings lead vocals. The group is rounded out by bassist Pete Farndon, guitarist James Honeyman Scott, and Martin Chambers on the drums. The more I listen to this album, the more I like it, so give the Pretenders a chance. Sire Records Company may have a winner. In general, I find sides one and two very different. Much of side one consists of a repetitive, hard rock beat, accompanied by crude, but powerful lyrics. Side two is much more relaxed, and the music seems a bit more sophisticated. Side one begins with the song ··Precious.\ In a sultry voice, Chrissie sets the stage for the crude sexual content of the album by telling us she wants to \Do it, do it, do it, do it on the pavement.'' The next three songs are repetitive to the point of being boring. If there is a message in \The Phone Call,\ is obscured by the raw sound of the rhythm guitars. Chrissie seems to have a faint hint of Stevie Nicks in her voice as she sings \Up The Neck,\ but you wouldn't catch innocent Stevie singing these lyrics. Space Invader is an instrumental cut written by Farndon aNd Scott. It ends with a recording of the sounds from the popular electronic game \Space Invaders.\ Miss Hvnde does some fast talking on \ The Wait,\ and bassist Pete Farndon really shines. The last song on side one is the Pretenders rendition of a Kink's oldie. Produced by Nick Lowe, \Stop Your Sobbing\ is extremely different from other cuts on the album, and the variety it adds is excellent. liliJ\oysJ- ~--.toR tfte 23esf INS MO/\lNG C.C.e.SS ORIES,. !land made. ;1\ Te we..\ry ~ ~Po~ a~~~E.S Cabaret Presents Its First Annual Gong Show On May 22nd Be Crazy Be Serious Acts Limited 5 Minutes Auditions April 29, 30 (T,W) May 1, 2 (Th, F) By Appt. Only Call Susan 6773 Parents Weekend 1st Act: TOM FARRELL VERNA LOWE 2nd Act: RUDY NYDEGGER CHARLIE TIDMARCH MC: BILL DICONZA Shows at 9:00 p.m. and 11 :00 p.m. Admittedly, I am biased on this topic. Stop Your Sobbing,~ Ray Davies original, was near the top of the charts in my mind before the Pretenders arrived on the scene .. Nick Lowe shou.ld get credit for this one: the sound quality is very good, especially the vocals near the end. Side two, on the whole, is much closer to easy listening, but no less exciting. What a few of the songs may lack in musical content is made up by Hynde's commanding lyrics: ''You ask me for advice, I said 'Baby use the door.\' \Brass i:n Pocket,'' probably the best known song on the a1bum, is co- written by Chrissie and James Honeyman Scott. Chrissie is begging to be noticed: ''I'm gonna make you see, there's nobody else here, no one 1ike me. I'm special, so special, I gotta have some of your at- tention, give it to me.\ \Lovers of Today,\ is one of the longest songs on the album, and the most pleasing to my ears. Chrissie Hynde is anything but a proper lady, and the Pretenders are anything but old fashioned. Their first album is far frmn a great achievement, but it is well worth the time and money it costs to enjoy it. They may be a new band, but you're dreaming if you don't think the Pretenders are playing rock'n roll. They spell it out for us oo the inner dust jacket: \This album has a longer running time than most average LP's therefore to achieve maximum effect PIA Y THIS ALBUM LOUD.\ Album Review: \Glove Shop Owner\ by Avishai Shapiro Photos On Exhibit The Unil:m Gallery at the ScheHectady Museum will be exhibiting photographs by Martin Benjamin, Jan, Perrin, and the students of the college from April 25 through May 15. Benjamin is photography instructor at Union College, and his photographs have won numerous awards locally and nationally; his work has been included in exhibitions around the United States. Perrin works at the college as gallery coor- dinator and supervisor of the photo labs. The student work exhibited was selected by Benjamin, archivist Ellen Fladger of the Schaffer Librau at Union College, and Professor David Nye, Chairman of the American Studies Department, from work made by students , over the last year. The opening reception will take place Saturday, April 25, from 7 to 9 p.m. at the Union Gallery in the Schenectady Museum on Nott Terrace Heights. The Gallery is open Tuesday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., and Saturday and Sunday from noon to 5 p.m. For further in- formation, please call the Department of Arts at 370-6201. 'Keepin' The sGmmerAiive by JIM DAVIS Listen to the title cut on the Beach Boys' new album, · 'Keepin' the Summer Alive,\ and you'll have a pretty good idea of the whole package's strengths and weaknesses. The good news is that it lives up to its name. There are a lot of upbeat tunes that will sound like they were made for the spring and summer months ahead. Of course, not everyone likes warm weather or going to the beach. That's why some might have fault to find with this ef- fort. Not so for this reviewer, who can recall many a time spent watching snow fall on the Nott Memorial, while wishing he was at Redondo Beach or Waikiki. And the title tune does a good job creating this kind of sum- mer-beach aura. Listening to it, we hear about \ice cream weather, when the girls sure do look better, and the guys try to give them a ride.\ It sounds so inviting that you're even sorrier the Spring Term here lasts so long. Like the remainder of the album, the song is backed with alluringly sweet harmonies and what could be the most sophisticated and complete instrrnnentals on any Beach Boys' recording. It's the ob- vious candidate to be released as a single and should have Top 40 written all over it. As the LP's first track, it sets the tone for what follows. Five of these remaining nine songs were written by the team of Brian Wilson and Mike Love, who pennedmanyofthe group's legendary summertime odes. Their I a test compositions don't match up to those earlier standards, but they're pleasant enough - head and shoulders above lots of the trash that's clogged the air as of late. \Some of Your Love\ is the most distinctive of this batch. Beginning with a catchy saxaphone solo, it fades into Mike's familiar nasal vocal. Here he's singing about a cheerleader who's \number one in her class.\ The song's title tells you what he's looking for. Of the other four tunes, \Goin' On\ and \Oh Darlin' \ are notable because they consider the downside of a love affair. But they contribute to the album's mood, nonetheless. After all, it has to rain sometimes, even during the summer. Another Wilson-Love effort, \When Girls Get Together,\ wouldn't be much missed if it got ruined and swept away by those downpours. It's per- formed in a conversational style, and comes off as just that: Someone telling you a story you never bothered to ask or care about. The same judgment can be passed on \School Day,\ an old Chuck Berry tune that's resurrected. The song is hopelessly dated - first by the guitar licks that send you back to the 1950s and, more so, by the lyrics. It's hard to accept with a straight face grown men celebrating \dear old golden rule days\ when everyone studied American history and math, and waited for the clock to strike three so they could walk (remember, they're too young to drive) down to the candy store or malt shop. Let's be honest: The Beach Boys now have children practically old enough to do that. Far kinder is a tune called \Endless Harmony\. Written by Bruce Johnston, who produced the album and has been a part of the Beach Boys for the past 15 years, it's a kind of testimonial to the band, whase first release, \Surfin' \ in December 1961, carne before some Union students were born. As the final track, it provides a fitting conclusion. And with this latest effort, the Beach Boys have contributed to their tradition of \Keepin' the Summer Alive\. I 1 ' I ! -1 ' I I . , I ; I ' ! '· 1 I , i ! ' hyPAU On Thursd: 24 (tonight) , 1 oresent a oro O'NeiU's The essential e psychologica unified and singHlar tech Director D. scene three, · most import; firemen of a are deep in ship, and as view their the ragin! stokeholes. this bad hung over, a! heat. Yank the others ir struggle at t this is actu: and Yank i: In this see lights of the confrontat fundament<: The unfeari of this gang a self-appo' all men, de not serve tb of society. most resp< tinuing su crew. Wh1 superior 1\ vades Ya ''filthy bea is changed The your the hole companie engineer; s M Be hi

OONOORDfENS.l.S, April 24, 1980 Page 5 'H.airy. Ape'· Premieres Tonight • a prev1ew on technical design by PA:l)L FEINSOT On Thursday evening, April 24 (tonight), Union Theater; will nres~nt a production of Eugene O'Neil\'s. The Hairy Ape. The essential elements of this psychological drama are both unified and enhanced by the singular techuical production of Director Daro Beninati. In scene three, this careful work is most important to the play. The firemen of a transatlantic liner are deep in the bowels of the ship, and as the scene opens we view their silhouettes against the raging fires of the stokeholes. The men perform this backbreaking task, hungover, and facing blistering heat. Yank (Dan Lacoff) leads the others in this pain enduring struggle at the heart.of the ship; this is actually a kind of hell, and Yank is the antichrist. In this scene against the fiery lights of the furnace:;, there is a confrontation between two fundamentally different forces. The l,ll1fearing Yank, . .the leader of this gang of lowlives, rises to a self-appointed position above - all men, declaring that he does not serve the great wealthy man of society. lie is, rather, the most responsible for the con- tinuing survival of ship and crew. When the disdainfully superior Mildred Douglas in 7 . vades Yank's. domain, this ''filthy beast,\ as she calls him, is changed forever. The young woman appears in the hole of the ship ac- companied by the second engineer; she is dr_essed en- Announcil\lg tirely in white. Yank is busy castigating his crew of firemen and does not notice them until he sees his men staring in disbelief .behind him. When he turns to her there is an ex- plosion of passion, as the: ten- sion of the moment has reached j by PAUL GROSSMAN Relatively small. Basically round. Both of these are higl,lly salient features of Union's theatre, the Nott Memorial. Because of these charac- teristics, the Nott presents Eugene O'Neill's ''The Hairy Ape'' Directed by Daro Beninati Performances : Tonite Thru Sunday Tickets on Sale ·in the Nott Memorial its climax. On a spiritual level, an angel of the Lord has ap-- peJtred before Satan in order to reaffirm the superiority of the world above. However, . on a more basic human level, Y a:nk becomes conscious of his oin · beastliness for he is the most hideous freak in this freak show. Yank has reached the moment of recognition which transforms Yank into the despairmg tragic hero of this drama. This man has come to realize that he is not what he believed himself to be. Gl:ee Clubs Perform: ·Theta Delta Chi's 3rd Annual Mozart's Requiem Southern Rock Party South ern C s,no\i-: o'nfort- Live Band! May 3rd, 9 :3~ Behind the Fieldhouse r The Union College Men's and Women's Glee Clubs, under the direction of Hugh Allen Wilson, will present two concerts for Parent's Weekend. On Saturday, April 26, the Men's Glee Club will present Mozart's . Requiem, in conM junctiQn with the Wheaton Glee Club, at 4:30- in the, Memorial Chapel. Admission is free. The Union Men are j~st returning from an engagement at the Intercollegiate Music Council's festival at Worcester Polytechnic Institute and rehearsals for' Saturday's concert, so they promise to be in top form. The next day, Sunday, at 4:30, will be the last appearance of the Glee Clubs on campus this year. Admission, again, is free, and the concert features the Union Glee Clubs singing Bach's Motet VI, Ave Verum Corpus by William Byrd, and two choruses-' from Handel's Messiah, including the Hallelujah Chorus. Unfortunately, attendance at Glee Club conc~rts, while good elsewhere has been poor on campus. Bring your parents _ down to see the last concert by these two exceptional groups this year! difficult obstacles for a director to overcome when staging a play in that the audience must be so close to the actual set. Because of this situation, .any imperfections or .in. consistencies in the set are highly magnified. 'The Nott, by being a \Theatre-in-the- Round\ forces individuals staging a play to resort to clever techniques for presenting their sets. Sometimes; even the simplest sets pose difficulties when they have to be staged in the Nott. Despite such ob- stacles: shows continue to- \go up'' and close, and somehow the Nott manages to serve as a more than 1adequate \house\ for whatever play is inhabiting it at the time. It is usually the case that the very qualities that make the Nott sucb a challenging theater inspire its show's designers to experiment · and step out beyond the established perameters of conventional theatrical design, often with great success. This past year in the Nott, we have been exposed to the ultra- realistic design of Pirandello's \Six Characters in Search of an Author\ the · versatile, historically accurate Russian country estate of Chekov's \The Three Sisters\ and now Eugene O'Neil's \The Hairy Ape''. Director Daro Beninati's design of this production is a slight adaption of the origi~uil design that won Mr. Beninati the New York State Theatre Association Festival Award for Original Set Design. The set is made primarily of iron and metal piping. The set serves as both a ship and a cage {among other set- tings) and is as vital to the meaning of . the pl~y as any monologue in the script. The set is not merely what the play is played on, but somewhat its own character in the context of O'Neil's work. The .set makes statements and changes with different situations in tne play. The lighting in the play exists as a beautifully blended accent to the set. The most obvious interaction between the lights and the set is with Mr.- Beninati's use of a large white sheet that serves simultaneously as the back of the set and a projection screen for special lighting effects. These effects are not so over- powering so as to distract the audience, but seem to underline .. the statements of the scenes they are present in. The ultimate beauty of the set in the \Hairy Ape\ is in the form of a single pipe that separates. the audience from the action of the play. The final scene of the play is blatantly overpowering, due ·in part to the pipe's vital in- corporatiol\1 into the closing action of tlfle play. Technical theatre is very much alive in the Nott theatre. The \Hairy Ape\ iS the latest and one of the best examples of technical creativity in the Performing Arts department here at Union. SENIORS \ Interested in performing in a SENIOR CABARET? Get your oct together! Call Betsy 6596

' ' . ' . l i l 1 , I I I ; I I i __ , I' '· ' ) . ' I , .. I ~ \ l l CONCORDIENSIS, April ~4, 1980 Page 5 culture 'H_airy Ape' Premieres Tonight • a preview on technical design by PAUL FEINSOT On Thursday evening, April 24 .(tonight), union Theater wm oresent a oroducthm of Eugene O'NeiU's The Hairy Ape. The essential elements Gf this psychological drama are both unified and enhanced by the siNgular technical production 0f Director Dare Beninati. In scene three, this careful work is most important to the play. The firemen of a transatlantic liner are deep in the bowels of the ship, and as the scene opens we view their silhouettes against the raging fires of the stokeholes. The men perform this backbreaking task, hungover, and facing blistering heat. Yank (Dan Lac off) leads the others in this pain enduring struggle at the heart of the ship; this is actually a kind of hell, and Yank is the anti christ. In this scene against the fiery lights of the furnaces, there is a confrontation between two fundamentally different forces. The unfearing Yank, the leader of this gang of low lives, rises to a self-appointed position above all men, declaring that he does not serve the great wealthy man of society. He is, rather, the most responsible for the con- tinuing survival of ship and crew. When the disdainfully superior Mildred Douglas in- vades Yank's domain, this \filthy beast,\ as she calls him, is changed forever. The young woman appears in the hole of the ship ac- companied by the second engineer; she is dressed en- Announcing Theta Delta Chi's 3rd Annual Southern Rock Party May 3rd, 9 :30 Behind the Fieldhouse tirely in white. Y a11k is busy castigating his crew of firemen and does not notice them until he sees his men stariNg in disbelief behind him. When he turns to her there is an ex- plosion of passion, as the ten- sion of the moment has reached by PAUL GROSSMAN Relatively smaH. Basically round. Both of these are highly salient features of Union's theatre, the Nott Mem.orial. Because of these charac- teristics, the Nott presents Eugene O'Neill's 1 'The Hairy Ape'' Directed by Daro Beninati Performances : Tonite Thru Sunday Tickets on Sole in the Nott Memorial its climax. On a spiritual level, an angel of the Lord has ap- peared before Satan in order to reaffirm the superiority of the world above. However, on a more basic human level, Yank becomes conscious of his own beastliness for he is the most hideous freak in this freak show. Yank has reached the moment of recognition which transforms Yank into the despairing tragic hero of this drama. This man has come to realize that he is not what he believed himself to be. Glee Clubs Perform: Mozart's Requiem The Union College Men's and Women's Glee Clubs, under the direction of Hugh Allen Wilson, will present two concerts for Parent's Weekend. On Saturday, April 26, the Men's Glee Club will present Mozart's Requiem, in con- junctic;m with the Wheaton Glee Club, at 4:30 in the. Memorial Chapel. Admission is free. The Union Men are just returning from an engagement at the Intercollegiate Music Council's festival at Worcester Polytechnic Institute and rehearsals for- Saturday's concert, so they promise to be in top form. The next day, Sunday, at 4:30, will be the last appearance of the Glee Clubs on campus this year. Admission, again, is free, and the concert features the Union Glee Clubs singing Bach's Motet VI, Ave Verum Corpus by William Byrd, and two choruses from Handel's Messiah, including the Hallelujah Chorus. Unfortunately, attendance at Glee Club concerts, while good elsewhere has been poor on campus. Bring your parents down to see the last concert by these two exceptional groups this year! difficult obstacles for a director to overcome when staging a play in that the audience must be so close to the actual set. Because of this situation, any i.mperfections or in- c~msistet:J.cies in the set are highly magnified. The Nott, by being a \Theatre-in-the- Round\ forces individuals staging a play to resort to clever techniques for presenting their sets. Sometimes, even the simplest sets pose difficulties when they have to be staged in the Nott. Despite such ob- stacles, shows continue to \go up\ and close, and somehow the Nott manages to serve as a .more than ·adequate \house\ for whatever play is inhabiting it at the time. It is usually the case that tl<le very qualities that make the Nott such a challenging theater inspire its show's designers to experiment and step out beyond the established perameters of conventional theatrical design, often with great success. This past year in the Nott, we have been exposed to the ultra- realistic design of Pirandello's ''Six Characters in Search of an Author'', the versatile, historically accurate Russian country estate of Chekov's \The Three Sisters\ and now Eugene O'Neil's \The Hairy Ape\. Director Daro Beninati's design of this production is a slight adaption of the original design that won Mr. Beninati the New York State Theatre Association Festival Award for Original Set Design. The set is made primarily of iron and metal piping. The set serves as both a ship and a cage (among other set- tings) and is as vital to the meaning of tile play as any monologlle in the script. The set is not merely what the play is played on, bllt somewhat its own character in the context of O'Neil's work. The set makes statements and changes with different situations in the play. The lighting in the play exists as a beautifully bleNded accent to the set. The most obvious interaction between the lights and the set is with Mr. Beninati's use of a large white sheet that serves simultaneously as the back of the set and a projection screen for special lighting effects. These effects are not so over- powering so as to distract the audience, but seem to underline the statements of the scenes they are present in. The ultimate beauty of the set in the \Hairy Ape\ is in the form of a single pipe that separates the audience from the action of the play. The final scene of the play is blatantly overpowering, due in part to the pipe's vital in- corporation, into the closing action of the play. Technical theatre is very much alive in the Nott theatre. The \Hairy Ape\ is the latest and one of the best examples of technical creativity in the Performing Arts department here at Union. Dream Time It stretches (Jn forever pearly world of dreams breaking to the glassy surface of a mind's lake gleaming polished white~land and blinding light to shine from sand and eyes I build my gpaee at will and people it sparsely an'd they adorn themselves with silver tbread and all float on the cloud of wisdom and it}s real if I want behind closed eyes the world is born hidden inner bands stripping away the waking dream in favor of the dream awake and its rivers run clear in truth and .its women alabaster in_ grace and I lie in serenity and melt spinning in crystalline ecstasy in the arms fif my .conjured love . never speaking but kno~ we glory in each other's dreams of iV()t'Y beauty watching a procession of illumined beasts in feral dignity and they roar in a h<llY wilderness and the silver air mellows to gold and I'm never coming back -Brett 1. Wolfe SENIORS Interested in perlorm ing in a SENIOR CABARET? Get your act together! Call Betsy 6596

} 1 ' ' - . Lottery Loom~ Ahead The .housing lottery will be .. .:conducted from M~y 5 to May 21. All dates and other details not mentioned in this an- nouncement will be for· thcoming shortly. . The computer will randomly assign numbers to students PY class year. That is to say, the computer randomly assigns numbers to members of the classes of '81, '82, and '83. The computer then translates the random number to a number that is understandable- one through 300-roughly the class size for each year. This will be done for each class year with the exception of the in- coming new stQ.dents. Mrs. Thelma Boyer, Assistant Director of Housing Members of the Housing Committee and Residence life Blue· Skies Over Union, by D. BOOTH Most peoP..!e have a fetish: for some; it is a foot fetish, for others, a particular food. My fetish is Daquiri drinking. To me there is nothing more pleasurable than to relax in the early evening, a delicious strawberry daquiri, or peach in .season, or key lime . if I'm feeling like Key West, in hand. This delicious drink can be purchased in this area, the best ones being made by Sunday's on Union St. But itis twice as fun to;;~ make your own. A Daquiri calls' for rum, especially Bacardi Light Rwn. Then lime juice, whatever fruit is fancied for the evening, ·and a little sugar, a dash of lemon, and lots of crushed ice. The glass for a daquiri should have a stem so that the drink stays icy cold. First put plenty of ice into the blender, then pour in one shot of lime juice, a tablespoon of sugar, a dash of lemon juice, and one and a half shots of rwn. Load in the fruit and blend and suit to taste. The more fruit and ice the better the drink will be. But it's not just the pleasure of making the daquiri or even.?~ drinking it that makes a daqum what it is· it is instead the scene which comes to mind wbile drinking this fabled drink. The drink is held carefully in the right hand, and is ever so slowly sipped-what ecstasy to feel it in your mouth;~ swirling gently against your lips, then gliding down the throat. The aroma of lime is wafted by the coal breezes of Key West and the sea seems to crash and subside around your feet . . . but this is Union College, not Key West. The Daquiri, taken in sqfficient amounts, is capable of tran- sporting the mind to ,other realms! If one must be at Union at the time when the Keys are dancirig in the increasinly hotter sun, one must drink the Daquiri. Daquiris ·were made to be the magic carpet or arearns. It was still a little cool the other evening when I carried my first pitcher of Daquiris to Jacks.on's Garden in the early moonlight, pitcher in one hand, blanket, glass, and company in the other. This is the .first of the season for the Midnight Sub- marine Races in the Creek that Reeks, I might add. But to sit secluded in the deep brush, silent and unknown to the surrounding world, watching the stars fade into blurs of strawberry Daquiris, that, that is what colleges were made for; For those who have never taken the time to explore the - Gardens they contain several bowers well worth noting. One half of the gardens is designed in the manner -of the French, that being a formal layout (I say in the . French manner, because the actual French garden would have had hedges instead of flO'wers -along its borders), _and one half. in the English design, which .means that it is supposed to look natural, like the English woods and meadows. In the French section, to one's left entering the gardens, thereis a large hedge area which affords minor concealrrient. In fact, one of these hedges is hollow enough that two may sit inside it comfortably. But it is the English side which offers the greatest possibilities. Here the trees grow close and dark, and Daffodils nestle close. After a few Daquiris in the trees it is easy to float off into the stars. }Jasanyone else ever felt that they were falling up? Occasionally, usually after strawberry Daquiris, I feel as though I were falling into the sky, joining in some way, a very Greek way, the constellations. I am Tuarus, chasing Virgo, I a!ll running my fingers through Coma Berenices. I implore everyone to .make use of these moonlight nights in Jackson's Garden. They inust not· go to waste. Package the Daquiris,; ' let ~s make it the official Union drink. Let us go forth happy; let the midnight submarine races be run. SIGMA CHI SPRING FEVER 12th ANNUAL $5.00 Advance CLAMBAKE SAT, May 17th 12-fiPM HOUSE PARTY 10-? AM $6.00 AT DOOR Office will distribute to eligible students a computer card · (lottery card) bearing the student's name, ID number, and lottery number. 'fhe student MUST be present his- her ID and pick up his-her lottery card IN PERSON. Only students presenting J.Ds will receive a lottery card. If it is impossible for a student to pick up his-her lottery card that night, the student may do so at the Residence Life Office the next day. The selection of available on- campus. housing will be divid~d up into three categories: co-ops, singles, and doubles and suites. There will be a meeting to explain the selection process for co-ops soon. Hopefully, stewards from McKean House and Smith House will be on hand to. provide information about the running of co-ops. Members of the Housing Committee or the Residence Life Office will answer all questions about the co-op lottery. The remainder of the campus housing will be selected according to class year and by the lottery nwnber assigned to each student. -Singles Lottery: t~main.ing sfugles. This process will continue until all singles have been selected.- Double and Suite Lottery: The lottery for doubles and suiteswill conclude the process. The senior lottery will be held first, followed by the junior lottery and finally the soph(lmore lottery, The class member·present with the lowest lottery nwnber will have first pjck. The class member with the next lowe$t lotte~y number, and present, Will follow. When a suite or double is selected, all roommates MUST be present and all MUST SIGN CON .. TRAcTS. The room. Qr suite will be placed. back into the lottery .if any of the roommates do not. sign the contract when the room or suite is selected. All oc- cupants of a room or sliite· who are found. to have cheated will lose any right to the room or suite. Additionally, the per- son( s) who cheated will be fined $100. Points .of interest: class standing is determined by the miinber .of credits received at the end of winter term-no exceptions;. you must be on campus durQ1g spring term to participate in the lottery~ Watch for more detai}s.and the dates in ne:xt issue of ·Conrordiensis. -· The senior with the lowest lottery number will have first choice of available singles. The senior with the next lowest lottery number will have the second choice. If some singles have not been selected and the.Fe are no more seniors present, the junior present with the lowest lottery number will have first choice of the · Any male §f>phomore Who felt · he was forced off campus last . year and would like· to be on · ·campus next year must petition · the housing committee by April· 30. Stone· Boat Compe.tition After many weeks of hard work on the part of a dedicated stone boat club, the concrete canoe was finally ready for its maiden voyage. After several last mtfiute, late night preparations the boat was loaded onto its rack and ready to travel to Green Lakes State Park in northern Syracilse. At the park, Syracuse University hosted tne gathering of interested schools (HVCC, Syracuse, Union and West Point). Saturday's meet allowed the schools to show off their engineering technology and building skills. This enabled everyone to compare designs, construction and see ho~ to improve for future rac~s. Union entered two canoes; one officially, the other unof- ficially since it was too- old to comply with the rules. This was done to allow everyone in the club to compete. The first race was the men's race. All four teams entered the race, with Union entering both boats. From beginning to end, Union's boats commanded a substantial lead, with Gary Morris and Ron Laberg.e stealing the race for first place and Mark Ingalls and Tom Corey finishing second. They were followed -by HVCC, West Point and Syracuse, respec- tively. Our women's team composed of Jane Webb and , Kathy Tessier showed that Union women were as tough as the rest of the team by Winning a walk .. away race. The faculty race was next. Prof. Tom Jewell · and Jan Perrin represented Union. They. were the only mixed team in this race. Union's boat jumped off to an enormous early lead, only to lose it in the first corner. However, they manag~d to - make an incredible comeback and win handily, setting the fastesttim.e of the day. Finally, the mixed race was the com- petition's last chance to win a trophy. Kathy Tessier and Dave Kormony were our official entry, with Jane and Tom Webb teaming up in the unofficial canoe. As the race unfolded, . Union again was out in front; but HVCC w.as close behind. Then, an accidental bump of their canoe and our official one put both canoes out of . con:- tention for the lead an allowed West Point to catch up. In the middle of the confusion Union's ··othef boat continued the win- ning streak Zunofficially) by finishing approximately one- third of the course ahead of the next boat. The real battle emerged in the ba-ck stretch with all the boats within one length of each other, · but Union's comeback fell just short and HVCC officially won the race. Union's official boat did, bwever, finish second. The Student Environmental Alliance presents With the races over and Union the victor, the stone boaters felt compelled to throw Mark Ingalls, club President, into the lake. This is becoming tradition, so . future winning Presidents beware. The awards ceremony followed, with Union receiving three first place trophies. U-think U-r cool? Well. • • U-MOC IS THE BEST Dr. Peter BoHner total;k on The Environmental Impacts of Public Poley Thursday, April 24 8:00 SS115 .. . ~-· The final meet of the season will be at West_ Point this Sunday. This should be the toughest race yet Sin~e there will be .fifteen other schools there. If anyone is interested in corning along and supporting the racers; the necessary in- for'mation can be obtained from the C.E .. secretary. . Do1 by A' Ask som they like, a like Chuc Brubeck, Rollins,. G• and even doesn't se compassir When you however, biguity. 1 definitiv• unimagin; '30's and had th'e Miller, ·~ Dorsey, Shaw, G~ Goodm.a1 played s than tod~ enjoyed l As the bebop -to bands oJ ., Basie, Maryna Kenton, These b: on powe provisati Wel• Weeke andw• · beabl . all ab about has b€ see th to sha ,weatl1 I he the 01 many Wit b: Pre this Week on ha daugl The c on S; a.m. Presi and ficial thom d~se1 are ontst acco the scie Ther recc tribt the are who haVG elec for rese

- OONOORDIENSIS, April :04, 1980 Page 7 ....,_Area Calendar. Culture .. May 1-4 ~ STUDENT ART SHGW: Exhibition Qf 'student work from first and·second year courses in design, photography, · sculpture, ·ceramics, paintings, · printmaking, commercial art, . and drawi!}g. Open Reception May. 1 from 7 .. 9 .p.m. May 2 - from 1 a.m. ·to 4 p.m. in gym- nasium of the Jutiior College-of AU:Ja~y. · Dane~ April 27 ,-'- At ,the Studio for Ethnic Dance in Albany the . public is invited to '·'Mid- Eastern Dream\ from 1;30-4:30 p.m. There will be ethnic food, · live music and continuous entertainment. All dancers . invited to participate., Films 457-860ih ' April 28 -·cynthia Lee Baker on piano and Nonrian Baker on· tru,mpet will be performing at SUNY Albany's Arts Center Recital Hall. The concert will begin at 8 p.m. :For further· information, call457-8606. ApriU9 ~ A Senior Recital in· voice, featuring .Lori Wilinsky and Robert Farquhjlrson, will be presented at SUNY Albany's Performing Arts Center Recital · Hall. The concert will begin at 8 p.m. For further information, call 457-8606 . April 29 - There will .be an evening of chamber music at the RPl Chapel and Cultural Center at 2125 Burdett Avenue at 8 p.m. Violinists Natalie Kriegler and Helen Neff, violist Ann Marie Assenheimer, cellist: Mark Pritchard and guest: violiJ_1iSt Michael Emery will perform the works of Borodin,. Vivaldi, and M()zart. · Recital by PAUL GROSSM~N Union terms abroad have· · been and no doubt will continue-- to be a source of both enjoyable experiences and valuable education to Union students~ Next year, Union will be of~ feting a term abroad~ in Bogota, Colombia, but it will be a term abroad decidedly differentJrom any that Union has offered in the past. The term abroad in Bogota ·has been offered in the past, but has recently been suffering from lack of student interest. The term abroad was .offered to the History and Po~itical Science Departments Which saw tile possibility of changing the curricul~ · in the term abroad to focus on the developmental aspect of the Colombian society. · The politic~l, economic and technological bases for development will be covered in the term's curriculum~ This wide range of developmental topics will be' presented in a team~taught manner with three professors, Wiese, Nichols and Hayes, sharing the resident director duties in the course of the term. Professor Hayes of the Chemistry Department will be making a unique con- tribution in that he will focus on the technological developmtmt of Colombia. This change in curticultun will hopefully be a stepping stone for similar terms abroad. The main purpose of the term in Bogota is to determine if there is stuaent interest in the field of Developmental Studies. Prof. Wiese states,. \Ideally we want · to be able to offer termS in more than one country. more th~ one continent, in fact,\ but to do this, additional funding and large student interest must be available. Spanish 10 is still a requirement for the term abroad as students will be living with Colombian· families. The basic logistics of the term are handled by an organization called CEUCA which stands for the Colombian American Center for University Studies; this organization is associated with· the Gre~t Lakes College Association (an organization comparable to our own Middle States Associatiun). The curriculum 6f the term has incorporated field trips which in the past have included visits to archaeological digs. There is some question as t~the safety of Bogota, but Prof. Nichols ex- plains, ''Bogota is like any large city, you just have to know how to handle yourself.\ CEUCA has an Arts & Crafts Center close by that offers a relaxing alternative to the busy. urban city of Bogota. May 1-4 - The musical production \Cabaret\ con- tinues at the Little Theater of Russell Sage College. Shows· will be at 8-p.m. except on May 4 where it will be at.2 p.m. For . further information call 270- 2344. , April 27 ~ The fourth recital in the 1979-19~0 -organ Recital Series of the First United Methodist Church will be presented .on April 27. The. performance will take place at 603 State Street at 7:30p.m. and will include selections l;>y Johann Sebastian Bach, Cesar Franck and Marcel Dupre. For · further information, conta\ct Nancy Walden at 374-9026! Aging and Society Preservation The deadline for application to the term in Bogota, which will be conducted from January 6, 1981, through the middle of March, is May 1. If you are interested or have any questions, see Professors Wiese, Nichols,. or Hayes, or Prof. Thomas in the Term Abro;1d Office. . Music April 27 - A Senior Recital,. . featuring David Goldman on ·piano, will be presented at SUNY Albany's Perforrn·ing Arts Center Recital Hall. The concert will take place at 3 p.m. . F.or further information, call You are cordially invited to learn about the human aging process and how it affects you. On Wednesday, April30, from 7 to 9 p.m. there will be a double lecture ~bout aging held in SS 115, sponsored by the Pre- 'Health Society. Refreshments will be served immediately following the lectures. The lectures will concern two different aspects of aging. The first spea~er is Dr. :Malcolm B. Baird, research scientist for the aging program at the Masonic Me.dical Research Laboratory in utica. The laboratory has achieved worldwide recognition for contributions toward un- derstandingthe basic biological mechanisms of aging. Dr. Baird will discuss current studies on the.genetics of aging. 464 State St. Schenectady 374-1888 The second speaker is Ms. Sallie L. Hume, a Union College we deliver · trustee and assistant professor in the Department of General Cornell Summers Work For You Plan your educational inve-stment wisely. Cornell University offers a wide variety of -summer courses and special programs with tuition at $11 0 per credit or less. By ac- celerating your degree program, you· can probably reduce the cost of your education signlficant~y. Besides, where else can yoo polish your writing skills and learn to use a computer or be ht an undergraduate prelaw program and take a. course in conc~ptual drawing? Where else can you be in the company of so. diverse a group . of faculty and students in such a · uniquely attractive setting of hills, lakes, gorges, and waterfalls? Interested? Write or call for , an Announcement today. Cornell University Summer Session, 11·1 .Day Hall Ithaca, ~ew York -14853 Phone 607/ 256a4987 Education at Schenectady County Community College. Ms. Hume will present the sociological aspects of aging . Alumni Council Members College seniors Kenneth R. Plumb and Mirabella Cusmariu, recently elected class of 1980 representatives to the Alumni Cotmcil, attended the Council's spring meeting Saturday, Apri119. . · . Plumb, of East Longmeadow, Mass., is a political science major and president of the Student Forum. Cusmariu, a mechanical engineering major, is from West Orange, N.J., and Head Reisdent Advisor for Fox Dormitory. The Alumni Council provides a vital link between the College and its gradaates. During the past four years, Council com- mittees have been involved in the improvement of dormitory - conditions, have entertained proposals for new athletic facilities, and have been con- cerned with various aspects of student life. The Council as a whole has provided financial support for such projects as campus landscaping and lighting. The Alumni Council also supports two major College weekends-Homecoming and ReUnion. THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPAa5 OF PUJILIC POLICY A Talk will be given by Dr. Peter Buttner _Thursday April 24 1:30 Lower Hale House Lounge Sponsored by S. E. A. Bloodmobile to be held April 24 In Strauss lounge 11·5 For more information, check with . Lorraine Marra, 6118. Cornell Law School Undergraduate Prelaw Program June 9 to July 22, 1980 A demanding six-week program for college students who want to learn what Jaw school is like. For further information write to Prof. E. t=. Roberts, Cornell Law School 3148 Myron Taylor Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853 ;

Page 8 Campaign for Union ... Continued from page 1 I the challenge involved in such a fund drive and the commitment needed to ensure its success. Board of Trustees Vice- President Thomas Hanigan, Jr., re~ded the audience that Union had previously relied on the generosity of alumni and friends channeled through the Alumni Fund. The initiation of the Campaign is indicative of the College's desire to increase emphasis on endowment building. Mr. Hanigan said, \government funds are drying up, therefore with inflation and the need to constantly upgrade the College, we need to build endowment.\ The local director of the Campaign, Augusta Sch- wab, assured the assem:bly that the community of Sch•mectady will do its share in supporting the drive, as \without Union, Schenectady would be a less interesting and less desirable place to live.\ President Morris stressed the importance of the Campaign to Union saying, \we can be the best and we can stay the best only if we, as an in- stitution, can meet the demands of the age. Since we cannot sacrifice quality, we must make this Campaign work.'' . , THE.OPEN. DOOR. 136 Jay Street · ·· 346-2719 Downtown Schenectady OONOORDIENSIS, April 2~., 1980 An Affirmation Of Life by .JOANNE STEIN including tlle books of Jules Verne; people saw the bridge as something out of hfs books. Chester Arthur was the first President to walk across the bridge. It was the eighth wonder of the world, a tourist . at~ traction, the subject of jokes, poetry and .songs. John R;obling and his son Washington were the designers of the bridge, ''civilized civil .engineers,\ who wanted people to enJoy the bridge. The triuniphaL stone archways are both beautiful and functional. Mr. McCullough traced their careers, triumphs and h,l;!i'd- Thursday evening, April 17, David McCullough, author of The Great Bridge (and other works) told the story behind the construction of the Brooklyn Bridge. Mr. McCullough graduated from Yale with a degree in English and had no interest in engineering while in school. It w.as after a luncheon with two friends, an -engineer and an architect that he becaine interested in the Brooklyn Bridge. He felt that the con· Physically,, it is over a mile long, has high granite towers 276 ft. high, is held aloft by 4 foot 15 inch cables and has 2 towers, one embedded in a brick like material, the other in sand and is the first major U :S. con~ struction in which steel was used. The bridge was the biggest and most expensive one for the times and it was the first bridge to connect Manhattan to any other borough of New York City. ships, . McCullough stated s__everal times that the bridge was a symbol, and affirrrt~tion o(Ufe: it made a person glad to ne a ·human being. It is a great structure built by man with a compelling story in which poUtics, engineering, ctmrage and persistance all play a part. Despite terrible odds and problems the Brooklyn Bridge was completed in 1883 .after 14 years of work. · struction of the bridge was a stmng, dramatic and human story not treated before. The Bridge was built in 19th century America (1869-'83), a time of many achievements SUN MON 2-5 a.m. CABRAL COMSTOCK- SYMINGTON 5·7 a.m. EISENBERG STEUER 7-8:30 GIZA HUNT 8:30- SHARP HUNT 9:30 9:30- COZZI ROSS 10:30 10: 30- COZZI ROSS 11: 30 . 11: 30· 12:30 p.m. SOMMERS CRIMI - 12: 30- 2:00 WINIKOFF VAN WAGNER 2-5: 00 FREE AND SOBEL EASY - 5-8: 00 KLONER JAEGER 8-11:00 ROSEN POLLARD- WALSH 11-2 a.m. SLAVIT MITCHELL SUN MON . 1:00 p.m. VANWAGNER 6: 15 p.m. FRANKEL- HOMMEL- WILKLOW CAVALIER 12: 15 a.m. SILVERSTEIN SPECTOR EISENSTADT Mark Baum • Rock, jazz and a little of everything else. Lee Beck · Rock -Iron-roll, that says It all. Rich Benedikt· Outrageously diverse rock; first half mellow, second half hard. Steve Buchanan· Two all beef patties, special sauce, lettuce, cheese, pickles, onions, on a sesame seed bun. Rich Budd • \Hobi!rt\ · Totally unexpected, anything can happen. Neal Cabral · Exploring the basic affinities of early~mld sixties pop to late seventies, early eighties new wave. Pete Charlakls • A variety of platters from new wave to southern to hard rock. Scott Comstock-Chip Symington . A late night rock and rolf· fantasy. John Cozzi· \Coz in the morning\ The classics of pop-rock- progressive. Melissa Cragin . Rock and new wave. Steve Crimi ·The Wise OJ knows howl little he plays. Jason Deutschmelster · Rock, new wave, ana occasionally · show tunes or oldies, John Dragoon . ? Dave Dunham. A variety of music, mostly new· rock. Steve Eisenb!!rg- Heavy metal and new-wave rock and roll.. Jim Elkin • Tunes for the tone-deaf. Susan Fitzgibbon · Pot-pourri for 100; wide. variety.. Dave Frangiamore · From oldies to modern lazz, the Frange has it all. Dan Frelfeld · \Freebird'' Progressive rock, progressllil' lazz, progressive classical, progressive insanity. Mutants rule. Kathryn Gardow . Folk and bluegrass. Mark ·Gentile · A synthesis of progressive rock, new wave, decadent rock, With occasional journies Into -the world of country rock. Paul Glrsdanky • Mellow Is the madness. John Giza ·Wake up with Giza, don't expect Classical. Le·e Gllctman · Folk, rock, i!nd 1azz. Carl Hommel ·The \not ready for prime time\ aggrlgatlon. Warren Hunt· What. a way to get up. Dave Jaeger· Mellow rock mixed with special features you may find interesting, Pllll Jonas . Rock that radiates second orlly to three-mile Island . Dave Kaplan. Mainstream jazz, old and new {trios, quartets, etc.) (~.~~- t;JI. WRU C ( · : J 90,9fm.stereo TUE WE.D THU FRI SAT BUCHANAN TAYLOR YELICH GENTI.LE REILLY i LANZA GIRSDANSKY D. WALSH ZELVIN BAUM ' HOMMEL GIRSDANSKY PIFKO- BECKER DRAGOON FRANGIAMORE FREIFELD GLICTMAN BECKER BENEDIKT . ·FRANGIAMORE FREI F!=LD GAR DOW ETKIN .. BENEDIKT ' CRAGIN FITZGIBBON GAR DOW SCAL.I YOHAY ' CRAGIN FITZGIBBON SANDERS LIFSHITZ YOHAY RUBIN CHAR KALIS SANDERS L>-EUTSCH- MEISTER KU-PFER BERG B'ECK LACOFF JONAS SCHWARTZ BOOJI BOY ' KLAN MILLER 'SILVERMAN MURPHY EXPLORERS I ' . SINGER DUNHAM N ICKELSBERG MIRANDA ' SAWA • LAKRITZ RAYMOND McNUTT BUDD KAPLAN NEWS AND SPORTS'· . ' --. TUE WED THU FRI SAT PLOTKIN McNUTT WALLACH· HAMMOND ; HYMAN - GOLDABER- LANZ~ DeSIMONE- PAYNE- EXPLORERS POSKANZER SORKIN \GURDIN MAHLER RU.DEN- BOBER- HAMMOND MARKS BAUM - Amy Kiener . C.lasslc rock and roll. RhoCfa Kupferberg · Soft rock, soft fork, and sixties music. Dan Lacoff · ? Howie Lakrrtz . Does anybody know Rachel Sweet's phone number? Marcia Lifshitz - Folk and soft rock. Andy McNutt • Bebop, swing, mainstream, and big bands. Harry Miller· Diverse stuff. from rock to jazz to blues. Tony Miranda . \Mr. T\ Bringing to the-contemporary listener a masterfuf.blendlng of songs of love and,the•beats of disco. Jeff Mitchell · E:ntertainmentfor the cultured musicologist. Derek Murphy · Disco and More! Paul Pifko· The \wake up and find out that you are the eyes of the world\ show; rock and .art--roll Bob Pollard-Hugh Walsh -Full spectrum of progressive rock. Pete Raymond · Progressive jazz arid rock. John Reilly . Progressive -space themes, Harry Rosen · Music is iny mistress. Bill Ross • Fun music for fun people. Mitch Rubin • Pure spulik for now people. J.R. Sanders . For the lover of blues, and\both pure, and contemporary jazz. Gene Sawa · Snappy, crackll~pop. Tanio Scali· You walit it, you take It, you pay the price. Jay Schwartz · Crazy Jay rockin' away. Mike Sharp · Rock and roll . 1950's to contemporary and new wave. Jeff Silverman- The man plays new wave and rock. Greg Singer . Classic rock and roll. Ira Slavit \~ come from planet· Claire. Andy Sobel · Full spectrum of rock. Dan Sommers · Classlcal rock, and mellow to hard rock that has endured. Larry Steuer. ? Jack Ta.ylor ·Where I come from, people are into E minor, but me, I'm Into the Medicinal Madrigals and Mac:ulatutea through Curved Air. Ken Van Wagner. Always a surprise but never any disco. George· Van Klan· llilstwanna srilff some glue. Don Walsh - Orchestral rock. Mille Wlnikoff • Deep In tbe heart of your brain is a lever; Deep in the heart of your brain is a swltc!l. De l'ame pour l'ame. Dan Yohay • Relaxing, late 60's, to wake up to, going· Into more harder rock. Mike Zelvln - Everything you didn't get last night, this morning. Booji Boy· The- fittest shall survive, yet the unfit may live. It's all the same. Freeahd Easy· Features AI Goldberg and It's normally soft. rock and pop music but has much more rock and tasteful new wave this term, SUBSTITUTES· Ted Behar, Vicky Eddy, Bob Moissonnler, Ro.b Mondscheln, Mike Rock. Tom Talbott, and Andy Weitzman. - SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND FEATURES: Community Calendar - A _public service for ·community organizations wishing to publicize events .or services. Aired at 12·noon, 3 p.m., Sp.m. 9 p.m., and 12 midnight. 'Ride Board - A pul;olic service for those offering or seeking rides. Aired at 12: 30p.m., 3:30p.m., 7:30-p.m, and 10i'\30 p.m. Album at Ten- Every weeknight at 10:00 p.m. a recent album is played in its entirety. Concert Series· Every Saturday hlght at 10:00 p.m. a live concert or musical personality interview is aired. Weather • In the morning the weather Is announced on the hour and at twenty minutes past. In tHe afternoon and evening if Is read at-half past the hour. News· In addition to the regular news shows, headlines and important stories are read throughout the day, · . Sports · In addition to the regular sports reports, sJ:lorts -results and important stories are read throughout the day. Union varsity sports are aired live on many occasions. Wallstreet Week in Review • A financial wrapup for the week aired at 8:00 p,m. on Sunday nights f!lilluring Mark Bautn- and Howard Brodsky. Commentaries · .Prepared commentaries are aired at the conclusion. of ci!rtain news shows. Campus announcements and events . Events such as, meetings, rallies, or parties are announced throughout the day .. ANYBODY INTER!:STED IN GETTING INVOLVED WITH WRUC: SHOULD CONTACT JEFF MITCHELL AT THE STAtiON {)R LEAVE A NOTE 01\1 THE BULLETIN BOARD. ( BULLET I~ Attention:. to deliver tl speech plea: word draft tc May 1st. Im 1 with student accepted. In and Box l Commencerr Third Ye: Professor Ja you would 1 information evaluatien, contacting M. Murphy ment, Hum~ An Ad composed Goodheart, and Scai-fe been appoir evaluate, a tenura bilit: Geoffrey Gu Scien\:!e}. lf · provide tes Pro.fesso1 tenurability testimony Chairpersc Chairpersor terview. Apartmei to Septemb bedPoom (J modern ap washer, po: laundry rol per month. Call Karen Roomm~ bedroom a] Universit) immediate: term. MalE Sikorsky need two 1 ye ol pl C< at c A E ( ( I

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, April 24, 1980 • .. • Letters far An Affirmation Of Life Smith House Progra,m Last fall, a proposal was made to the Admissions Department to implement a more efficient and effective method of presenting Union College to the perspective student. This proposal, sub-- mitted by a group of students, was tabled until after the Admissions application rush was over. Recently. the Admissions Department decided in favor of the proposal. The ai.rq\of this program is to immerse · the perspective stud€nt in the Union at- mosphere long enough to get a · feel for the school from a student's point of view. To do . this, the perspective student will have to assume the role of a college student while he-she is at Union. This can be aceomplished by putting the perspective student • in the c<Jllege student~s en- • viromnent. That is, living in a , . d<.mble, eating en the meal plan, · · going to elass, lab; and the ' library, and so . tortb. In short. . by duplicating . as much .. as possible all -of the things that· , make student life what it is. This /program will reqmre • several th~gs.. t<J make . it sue- ·. ;. ees$ful: .deflicat,ed s\ud~nt· hosts, willing to devote a· fair amqunt , of time to as tru,my ·• pEtl'$pectiv-e students as will • visit the campus. This number , will be increasing in tlle.futur..-i; · a·· s11itable place is ·needed 'to ·. house this program~ Smith · House is considered to be the logical choice. Not only is it the right size for the program, but its looation makes it easy for a person not familiar with the campus to find. In addition. the prospective stu.dent will have a lounge where he-she can relax and talk with other hO$-ts and · prospective students. The student population is decreasing. .As the student population drops, this program is going to beCQm.e more and more important as a means of maintaining the quality, and number of students at Union. What we will be doing is selling Union-honestly-and in the best possible 'light. The Admissions Department invites you to comment on this program. Please leave aU rnments with the Admissions secretary in Old Gym Hall by April 28. If possible. please type. 2 5 a.m. 57 a.m. 7 8: 30 . 8:30· 9:30 9:30 10:30 10•30· 11•30 11: 30· Thankyol,l, Doug McFadden SUN CABRAL EISENBERG GIZA SHARP COZZI COZZI 12:30 p.m. SOMMERS 12: 30· 2:00 WINIKOFF 2-5: 00 FREE AND EASY by JOANNE STEIN Thursday evening, April 17, David McCullough, author of The Great Bridge (and ether works) told the story behind the construction of the Brooklyn Bridge. Mr. McCullough graduated from Yale with a degree in English and had no interest in engineering whHe in school. It was after a luncheon with two friends, an en.gineer and an architect that he became interested in the Brooklyn Bridge. He felt that the con- struction of the bridge was a strong, dramatic and h1:1man story not treated before. The Bridge was built in 19th century America ( 1869-83), a time of many achievements inclu.ding the books of Jules Verne; people saw the bridge as something out of his books. Chester Arthur was the first President to walk acnJss the bridge. It was the eighth wonder of the world, a tourist . at- traction, the subject of jokes, poetry and songs. Physically, it is over a mile long, has high granite towers 276 ft. high, is held aloft by 4 ~oot 15 inch cables and has 2 towers, one embedded in a brick 1rke material, the other in sand and is the first major U.S. con- struction in which steel was used. The bridge was the biggest and most expensive ene for the times and it was tf.le first bridge to connect Manhattan to any other borough of New Yer-k City. (1,~1. ~:1 WAUC ( · · ) 90.9 f m • s t e r e o MON COMSTOCK· SYMINGTON STEUER HUNT HUNT ROSS ROSS CRIMI VAN WAGNER TUE WED THU BUCHANAN TAYLOR YELICH LANZA GIRSDANSKY D. WALSH HOMMEL GIRSDANSKY PIFKO FRANGIAMORE FREIFELD GLICTMAN FRANGIAMORE FREIFELD GARDOW CRAGIN FITZGIBBON GARDOW CRAGIN FITZGIBBON SANDERS RUBIN CHAR KALIS SANDERS John Robling and his son Washington were the designers of the bridge, \civilized civil engineers,\ who wanted people to enjoy the bridge. The triumphal stone archways are beth beautiful and functional. Mr. McCuUough traced th.eir careers, triumphs and hard- ships. McCullough stated several times that the bridge was a symbol, and affirmation of life: it made a person glad te be a ·human being. It is a great structure built by man with a cempelling story in which pelitics, eagineering, courage aad persistance all play a part. Despite terrible odds and problems the Brooklyn Bridge was completed in 1883 after 14 years of work. FRI SAT GENTILE REILLY ZELVIN BAUM BECKER DRAGOON BECKER BENEDIKT ETKIN BENEDIKT SCALI YOHAY LIFSHITZ YOHAY DEUTSCH- KUPFERBERG MEISTER SOBEL BECK LACOFF JONAS SCHWARTZ BOOJI BOY w .· •..•• •• •••.• • Ill Campaign for Union • • . Continued from page 1 the challenge involved in such a fund drive and the commitment needed to ensure its success. Board of Trustees Vice- President Thomas Hanigan, Jr., reminded the audience that Union had previously relied on the generosity of alumni and friends channeled through the Alumni Fund. The initiation of the Campaign is indicative of the College's desire to increase emphasis on endowment building. Mr. Hanigan said, ''government funds are drying up, therefore with inflation and the need to constantly upgrade the College, we need to build endowment.\ The local director of the Campaign, Augusta Sch- wab, asstJred the assembly that the community of Schenectady will do its share in supporting the drive, as \without Union, Schenectady would be a less interesting and less desirable place to live.'' President Morris stressed the importance of the Campaign to Union saying, \we can be the best and we can stay the best only if we, as an in- stitution, can meet the demands of the age. Since we cannot sacrifice quality, we must make this Campaign work.\ .... /\_ -- 0TH5.ft .r,!;& T~H'S, ~ co .... \ ElM~ ~ 'TH_E OPEN DOOR 136 Jay Street · 346-2719 Downtown Schenectady 5-8:00 KLONER JAEGER 8·11: 00 ROSEN POLLARD· WALSH 11·2 a.m. SLAV IT MITCHELL SUN MON . l:OOp.m. VANWAGNER 6: 15 p.m. FRANKEL· HOMMEL· WILKLOW CAVALIER 12:15 a.m. SILVERSTEIN SPECTOR EISENSTADT Mark Baum . Rock, jazz and a I ittle of everything else. Lee Beck · Rock-Iron-roll, that says it all. Rich Benedikt- Ou1rageously diverse rock; first hall mellow, second ha If hard. Steve Buchanan. Two all beef patties, special sauce. lettuce, cheese, pickles, onions, on a sesame seed bun. Rich Budd . \Hobart\ . Totally unexpected, anything can happen. Neal Cabral Exploring 1he basic affinities of early-mid sixties pop to late seventies, early eighties new wave. Pete Charlakis · A variety of pla1ters from new wave to southern to hard rock. Scott Comstock-Chip Symington . A late night rock and roll fantasy. John Cozzi . \Coz in the morning\ The classics of pop-rock- progressive. Melissa Cragin . Rock and new wave. Steve Crimi· The wise OJ knows how· little he plays. Jason Deutschmeister . Rock, new wave, and occasionally show tunes or oldies. John Dragoon . ? Dave Dunham . A variety of music, mostly new rock. Steve Eisenberg . Heavy metal and new-wave rock and roll .. Jim Etkln . Tunes for the tone-deaf. Susan Fitzgibbon . Pot-pourri for 100; wide variet.y. Dave Franglamore · From oldies to modern jazz, 1he Frange . has It all. Dan Freifeld . \Freebird\ Progressive rock, progressivE> jazz, progressive classicaL progressive insanity. Mutants rule. Kathry.n Gardow . Folk and bluegrass. Mark Gentile - A syn1hesis of progressive rock, new wave, decaden1 rock, with occasional journles Into the world ot country rock. Paul Girsdanky Mellow Is the madness. John Giza Wake up with Giza, don'! expec1 classical. Lee Gl ictman . Folk, rock, and lazz. Carl Hommel . The \not ready for prime time\ aggrigation. Warren Hunt. What a way to get up. Dave Jaeger · Mellow rock mixed with special features you may find in1eresting. Phil Jon•s Rock !hat radiates second only 1o 1hree-mile Island. Dave Kaplan. Mainstream jazz, old and new (trios, quartets, etc.) KLAN MILLER SILVERMAN MURPHY EXPLORERS SINGER DUNHAM N ICKELSBERG MIRANDA SAWA • LAKRITZ RAYMOND McNUTT BUDD KAPLAN NEWS AND SPORTS TUE WED THU FRI SAT PLOTKIN McNUTT WALLACH· HAMMOND HYMAN GOLDABER· LANZA DeSIMONE- PAYNE· EXPLORERS POSKANZER SORKIN GURDIN MAHLER RUDEN· BOBER- HAMMOND MARKS BAUM Amy Kloner . Classic rock and roll. Rhoda Kupferberg . Soft rock, sof1 folk, and sixties music. Dan Lacoff . ? Howie Lakritz · Does anybody know Rachel Sweet's phone number? Marcia Lifshitz . Folk and soft rock. Andy McNutt · Bebop, swing, mainstream, and big bands. Harry Miller· Diverse stuff . from rock to jazz 1o blues. Tony Miranda - \Mr. T\ Bringing to 1he.con1emporary listener a masterful blending of songs of love and 1he beals of disco. Jeff Milch ell . Entertainment for the cultured musicologist. Derek Murphy . Disco and More! Paul Pifko· The \wake up and find out that you are the eyes of the world\ show; rock and art·roll Bob Pollard-Hugh Walsh. Full spec1rum of progressive rock. Pete Raymond · Progressive jazz and rock. John Reilly - Progressive space themes. Harry Rosen Music is my mis1ress. Bill Ross . Fun music for fun people. Mitch Rubin . Pure spunk for now people. J.R. Sanders . For the lover of blues, and both pure, and contemporary jazz. Gene Sawa . Snappy, cracklin' .pop. Tonlo Scali. You wan 1ft, you take i1, you pay the price. Jay Schwartz - Crazy Jay rock in' away. Mike Sharp - Rock and roll - 1950's 1o contemporary and new wave. Jeff Silverman. The man.plays new wave and rock. Greg Singer · Classic rocl< and roll. Ira Slavit · I come from plane! Claire. Andy Sobel · Full spectrum of rock. Dan Sommers Classkal rock, and mellow to hard rock !hat has endured. Larry Steuer · ? Jack Taylor· Where I come from, people are in1o E minor, bu1 me, I'm into the Medicinal Madrigals and Maculatulea through Curved Air. Ken Van Wagner. Always a surprise but never any disco. George Van Klan- I just wanna sniff some glue. Don Walsh . Orchestral rock. Mike Wlnikoff · Deep In 1he hear! of your brain Is a lever; Deep In the heart of your brain is a switch. De l'ame pour l'ame. . Dan Yohay · Relaxing, la1e 60's. to wake up 1o, going into more harder rock. Mike Zelvin - Every1hing you didn't get last night, this morning. Booji Boy The fit1est shall survive. yet the unfit may live. 11's a II the same. Free and Easy. Features AI Goldberg and i1's normally soft. rock and pop music bu1 has much more rock and 1as1eful new wave this 1erm. SUBSTITUTES· Ted Behar, Vicky Eddy. Bob Moissonnier, Rob Mondscheln, Mike Rock, Tom Talbott, and Andy Weitzman. SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND FEATURES: Community Calendar . A public service for communi1y organizations wishing 1o publicize events or services. Aired a112 noon, 3p.m., 5.p.m. 9 p.m., and 12 midnight. Ride Board- A public service for those offering or seeking rides. Aired at !2:30p.m., 3:30p.m., 7:30p.m, and 10•30p.m. Album at Ten· Everyweeknightaf !O:OOp.m. a recent album is played in its en11rety. Concerl Series. Every Saturday nigh! at 10:00 p.m. a live concer1 or musical personality interview is aired. Weather · In 1he morning 1he wea1her is announced on the hour and .at 1wen1y mlnules past. In the afternoon and evening it isread athalfpastthehour . News ·In addition 1o the regular news shows, headlines and impor1ant stories are read throughout 1he day. Sports · In addition to the regular sports reports, spor1s results and important s1ories are read throughout !he day. Union varsi1y sports are aired I ive on many occasions. Wallsfreet Week in Review· A financial wrapup for !he week aired at 8•00 p.m. on Sunday nlgh1s featuring Mark Baum and Howard Brodsky. Commentaries · Prepared commentaries are aired a1 the conclusion of certain news shows. Campu1 announcemen1s and events Evenls such as meetings, rallies, or parties are announced throughou1 1he day. ANYBODY INTERESTED IN GETTING INVOLVED WITH WRUC SHOULD CONTACT JEFF MITCHELL AT THE STATIOIII OR LEAVE A NOfE ON THE BULLETIN BOARD. \ . ' i 'l j j i ., ; ' i l ·• l . \~ I BULLET II\ Attention: 1 to deliver th speech plea~ word draft to May 1st. Im with student accepted. In1 and Box r Commencem Third Ye~ Professor Ja vou would li information evaluation, J contacting I M. Murphy, ment, Huma An Ad composed Goodheart, and Scaife been appoin evaluate, a tenura bilit~ Geoffrey Go Science). If « provide tes1 Professor tenurability, testimony i Chairperso Chairperson terview. Apartmen to Septemb1 bedroom o modern ap· washer, por laundry roc per month.· Call Karen Roomma bedroom ar University immediate! term. Male Sikorsky, need two 1 ye oe pr cc an 0 A 8 c c E

OONOORDIENSIS, April 24, 1980 Page 9 BULLETIN BOARD Attention: All Seniors wishing to deliver the co01mencement speech please submit a 1500 word draft to Mike Andolin~ by May 1st. Important: Speeches ' with student name will not be accepted. Include only ID No. and Box: No. Thank you, Commencement Committee. Third Year Evaluation of Professor James D. McCord. If you would like to submit any information relevant to the evaluation, you may do so by contacting Professor William M. Murphy, English Depart- ment, Humanities Building. house in Bridgeport or area. Call Lou 274-'8291.- All those interested in for- ming ap Acrobatic Dance Class, fall term of next year, come to organizational meeting in Fox Lounge on Tuesday, April 29 at 3:30 p.m. No experience necessary. Call'•Alan at ext. 6479 if you can't make 1t. The Union College. literary- arts magazine is now accepting · submissions for the Spring Issue. Meetings are · held Tuesday nights at 8 p.m. in the Women's Network room in · 'Carnegie. We encourage all interested Union students to · _attend these meetings. Please come, as the IDOL can only be what you make it. An Ad Hoc Committee , composed of Profassors ••••••• Goodheart, Griggs, Kershner, and Scaife (Chairperson) has been appointed to investigate, evaluate, and report on the tenura bility of Professor Geoffrey Goldbogen (Computer Scien~e).Ifany persons want to provide testimony relating to Pr·ofessor' Goldbogen 's tenurability, please submit the testimony in writing ito the Chairperson or contact the Chairperson to set up an in- terview. · PLACEMENT New Y ()rk City Transit Authority-Exam No. 0027 for Tr_ansit Management· Analyst Trainee--Application forms may be obtained by visiting ·or writing to the New York City · ·Dept. of Personnel, Application Section, 49 Thomas Street, NY, NY 10013 and asking for the application forms for Transit Man:ag~ment . Analyst Trainee, exam number 0027. Mailed requests should in-elude a stamped .self-addressed en- velope. For further information . please contact Pli~.eement terv.iewing. n you are in- terested, please stop in to sign up as soon as possible. Summer Work Opportunities- -If you are interested in part:. or full-time work dealing with educational materials, please stop by Placement and sign up for a group interview with Scott & Fetzer. Urgent job ·opportunity for a Resource Organizer at Families Crisis Program, Unity House, Troy, NY, Duries start after graduation, but they must hire inunediately. Please contact Placement Office for further information._ General Tire & Rubber Company--h~s position openings for students who are interested in pursuing careers within the fields of Technical Management-Quality Control and Mechanical Engineering (Product Design). For further. information, please stop by Placement. Career Observation Program & Lunch with Schenectady Rotarians, Thursday, May 8, 1980, 9 a.m.-1:30 p.m~ Tbe Rotary Club of Schenectady invites you to Spend a :Qlorning \on-the-job\ with. the club members in various career fields. You are also . invited to be. their guests · at a luncheon, where Dr. Lindon E. Saline, he~_d of GE's Management Development Institute will be a Apartment sublet fr9m June 1 to September 1. One furnished bedFoom of three bedrooms, modern apt., air cond., dish- washer, porch, 24 hr. security, laundry room in building. $205 per month. Brookline in Boston. Call Karen eves., 617-731.;8650. Office. \ · speaker. Roommate wanted: 2- bedroom apartment, furnisheq. University. Place. Available immediately or for summer .. term. Male or female. 377~3970. Sikorsky, or Avco employees need two roommates to rent · Natpac Inc., (Food Products , Company) needs sales people with or without selling ex- perieqce. If you are interested in sales, please stop by for further information. Techniques of Interview~ng­ On April31, at 4 p.m., Victor J. Kulpa of General Electric Information Service will be at - the Placement Office · to talk ,. with students about in- Come to the Office of Placement and Career Resources and matCh yourself up with a Rotarian. Their career fields include: Banking, Museum, Newspaper, Public Broadcasting, -Business Management, Insurance and many more. Only twenty-five students will have the opporttmity to par- ticipate in the program. So Learn_ sOmething new every day. - This_ summer at Union College. . At Union, you'll find people learning all year round. This summer, Union College offers students of all ages an expanded program of undergraduate and graduate COUrSeS in both qay .and evening ~ssions. ;, 6, and 10 week tenns plus a special 3 week course in introductory computer programming. This summer, you can learn about . anything from Art and History, to Math and Computer Science., Courses are scheduled in We've been helping people learn for more than 175 years, so there's no better place to learn than Union And there's no better time than now. Art \' French DAY COURSES Political Science Psychology Biology Chemistry Comput~ Science EngUSh German Hebrew Uterature in Translation Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Physics . Science and Math for Secondary School Teachers Sociology· Spanish Statistics Administration and Management Art Biology . EVENING COURSES Computer Science Health StudieS Econ~a History Electrical Matbematle!l Engineering Mechanical English Engineering Music .Phllosophy Physics Political Selena: Special Non-Credit Mathematics Refresher: Pre-Calclilus Term I 10 weeks June 16-August 22 Term II 5 weeks June 16-Jtily 18 Term II 6 weeks June 16-July 25 Term IV 5 weeks July 21-August 22 TermV 6 weeks July. 28..:.-Septetnber ~ Register in person or by mall· Academic advisors are available from 6-8 PM on Wednesday, June i 1 th, at by appointment. Please send me your catalogue of summer courses. ~arne Cilj' UNION -:. Union College, Graduate Studios and Continuing Education Wells Hause, t UniGn Ave. Schenectady, NY U308 (518) 37o.6288 Psychology Sociology,· Statistics come in early and sign up at PCR, April 28, any time. A local. firm applying . for a Federal Grant may be hiring three persons full-time to collect detailed accident data for.athree-year period. Student should have degrees in Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, or Behavioral Sciences. If you are interested in applying; please contact Charles W. Manning at 439-4991. We have literature in Plac~ment. Eastern Air Lines, Inc., . , International Airport, Miami, Florida needs flight attendants and enginneers. Please stop by Placernen~ for a brief summary of the positions and also the · .address to which you should send your resume. Donnelly Marketing, Division ·of Dunn & Broadstreet, have entry level positions available for programmers for geographic and demQgraphic information processes. Student should have a knowledge of either COBOL or FORTRAN. They are interested in Com- puter Science, and also Economics, Math, _ Sociology, Psychology, ML, Bio Majors who have taken either COBOL or FORTRAN. Please stop by Placement as soon as possible to let us know whether or not you are interested. Student Government 5 • • Continued from pa~e 1 Student Gwernment.\ Each student will receive a copy of the proposed con- stitution in their mailbox Thursday morning. If there ate further questions, students may ;address them to any member of the Forum. \The referendum on Plus- Minus will be Strictly non- binding,'' President Plumb reported, but it will enable the Forum to ge~ a sense of the student bodyiS' feelings on this issue. It tells us if we should do something a bout it, and gives us some substance to work with in front of the Educationa1 Policy Committee. In -addition to the options of complete ap- proval or di~pproval of the system, the .ballot will give students an opportunity to suggest modifications of the system.\ The Office of Placement and Career Resources, in- conjunction with the Student Forum is pleased to present AN INFORMAL TALK BY PRESIDENT JOHNS. MORRIS on \What Can You Do With a Liberal Arts Education?\ Wednesday, May 7, 3:30p.m. at Strauss Lounge. AU are invited to attend the presentation and the informal· discussion with refreshments Trustees ••. Continued from page 1 response to demands by Union women far greater variety in the sorority system. As with the Carnegie renovation, no action was taken at this time, but the Board was pleased to be in- formed of the state of. frater- nity-sorority affairs at present. The Trustees were also pleased with the physical \state of the campus and the planning that is being done by the ad- ministration in this area. A special mention was made of the role students have taken in l)laintaining the physical plant. The Board was presented with an update on the energy con- servation program, which s:eems to be progressing steadily. The Administration announced the establishment of an Inventory of Campus Needs designed to target areas jn need of special attention and to keep track of deferred maintenance projects._ Actual priorities will not be established until a comprehensive study of present maintenance needs and the future of all college property is completed. The Academic Affairs Conunittee of the Board heard a report from Dean of Admissions Nourse concerning the prospects for the Class of 1984. The Trustees were pleased to hear of the 12 percent increase in applications· and tJ'le 30 percent jump in campus visits by prospective students. The ' Dean also reported that eleven alumni admissions committees had been established across the nation to help recruit students. Robert Massa, the new Director of Financial Aid, was in- troduced to the Committee. The Committee also received a number of status reports from Dean of Faculty Paula P. Brownlee. She reported that the Academic Opportunity Program, designed to recruit minority students, was un· dergoing a comprehensive . review that includes the use of a consultant from Oberlin College. Hope was expressed that this program could be improved.· The Trustees were , also informed that the first seminar in' the Steinmetz Honors Program had been offered during the winter term and that early indicatiol).s from those involved had been positive. Dean Brownlee, supported by the testaments of..-- a number of the faculty present, reported on the progress of the Freshman Preceptorial pfograrn. Everyone present expressed a desire that this program be expanded to allow all freshmen to take advantage of it. In the area of financial matters, the Board of Trustees took a number of routine ac- tions. The bottom-line figures for the 1980-81 budget were approved. The Board also passed an amendment to the College retirement plan to become effective next year that increased the College's con- tribution and slightly lowered the amount paid by the em- ployees. The Trustees were glad to note that the endowment was doing well, despite the rather shabby nature of the economy at the present moment. A number of different plans were discussed for encouraging donations to the endowment in conjtmction with the Campaign for Union. Chief amongst these were plans to establish-a special high-yield fund and a life in- come program. Financing for the first stage of the energy conservation program has also been completed. In all, though the most recent meeting fails to qualify as a \thriller\ by any means, it did accomplish a number of wor- thwhile aims. Board members were pleased with the in- formational nature of a number of the meetings-in which they were brought up to date on a variety of campus affairs. Perhaps of greatest importance was the official kickoff of the \Campaign for Union\ em· phasizing the forward vision, and solidity that Union has time and again displayed.

' 'l ' I l l . t \: ' ' OONCORDIENSIS, April 24, 1980 Page 9 classifiet>s BULLETIN BOARD Attention: All Seniors wishing to deliver the commencement speech please submit a 1500 word draft to Mike Andolina by May 1st. Important: Speeches with student name will not be accepted. Inclllde only ID No. and Box No. Thank you, Commencement Conunittee. Third Year Evaluation of Professor James D. McCord. If you would li•ke to submit any information relevant to the evaluation, you may do so by contacting Professor William :vi. Murphy, English Depart- ment, Humanities Building. An Ad Hoc Committee composed of Professors Goodheart, Griggs, Kershner, and Scaife (Chairperson) has been appointed to investigate, evaluate, and report on the tenurability of Professor Geoffrey Goldbogen (Computer Science). If any persons want to provide testimony relating to Professor Goldbogen's tenurability, please submit the testimony in writing lto the Chairperson or contact the Chairperson to set up an in- terview. Apartment sublet from June 1 to September 1. One furnished bedroom of three bedrooms, modern apt., air con d., dish- washer, porch, 24 hr. security, laundry room in building. $205 per month. Brookline in Boston. Call Karen eves., 617-731-8650. Roommate wanted: 2- bedroom apartment, furnished. University Place. Available immediately or for summer term. Male or female. 377-3970. Sikorsky, or Avco employees need two roommates to rent house in Bridgeport or area. CaU Lou 274-8291. All those interested in for- ming an Acrobatic Dance Class, faU term of next year, come to organizational meeting in Fox Lounge on Tuesday, April 29 at 3:30 p.m. No experience necessary. Call•Alan at ext. 6479 if you can't make it. The Union College. literary- arts magazine is now accepting submissions for the Spring Issue. Meetings are held Tuesday nights at 8 p.m. i·n the Women's Network room in Carnegie. We encourage all interested Union students to attend these meetings. Please come, as the IDOL can only be what yeu make it. PLACEMENT New York City Transit Authority-Exam No. 0027 for Transit Management Analyst Trainee--Application forms may be obtained by visiting or · writing to the New York City Dept. of Personnel, Application Section, 49 Thomas Street, NY, NY 10013 and asking for the · application forms for Transit Management Analyst Trainee, exam number 0027. Mailed requests should include a stamped self-addressed en- velope. For further information please contact Placement Office. Natpac Inc., (Food Products Company) needs sales people with or without selling ex- perience. If you are interested in sales, please stop by for further information. Techniques of Interview~ng­ On April31, at 4 p.m., Victor J. Kulpa of General Electric Information Service will be at the Placement Office to talk with students about in- terviewing. If you are in- terested, please stop in to sign up as soon as possible. Summer Work Opportunities- -If you are interested in part- or full-time work dealing with educational materials, please stop by Placement and sign up for a group interview with Scott & Fetzer. Urgent job opportunity for a Resour('e Organizer at Families Crisis Program, Unity House, Troy, NY. Duries start after graduation, but they must hire immediatelv. Please contact Placement ·Office for further information. General Tire & Rubber Company--has position openings for students who are interested in pursuing careers within the fields of Technical Management-Quality Control ancl Mechanical Engineering r Product Design). For further information, please stop by Placement. Career Observation Program & Lunch with Schenectady Rotarians, Thursday, May 8, 1980, 9 a.m.-1:30 p.m. Tne Rotary Club of Schenectady inviles you to spend a morning \on-the-job\ with the club members in various career fields. You are also invited to be their guests at a luncheon, where Dr. Lindon E. Saline, head of GE's Management Development Institute will be a speaker. Come to the Office of Placement and Career Resources and match yourself up with a Rotarian. Their career fields include: Banking, Museum, Newspaper, Public Broadcasting, Business Management, Insurance and many more. Only twenty-five students will have the opportunity to par- ticipate in the program. So Learn something new every day. This summer at Union College. At L'nion. you'll find people learning all year round. This summer. Union College offers srudents of all ages an €:Xpanded program of undergraduate and graduate courses in both qay and evening sessions. 5. 6, and 10 week terms plus a special 3 week course in introductory computer programming. This summer, you can learn about anything from Art and History, to Math and Computer Science. Courses are scheduled in We've been helping people learn for more than 1 7S years, so there's no better place to learn than Union. And there's no better time than now. DAY COURSES Art PoUtlcal Science Psychology Biology Chemistry Computer Science English French German Hebrew Literature in Translation Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Physics Science and Math for Secondary School Teachers Sociology Spanish Statistics Administration and Management Art Biology EVENING COURSES Computer Science Health Studies Economics History Electrical Mathematics Engineering Mechanical English Engineering Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Special Non-Credit Mathematics Refresher: Pre-Calculus Term I 10 weeks June 16-August 22 Term II ; weeks June 16-July 18 Term II 6 weeks June 16-July 25 Term IV ~weeks July 21-August 22 TermV 6 weeks July 28-Septernber S ·-- Register in person or by mall Academic advisors are available from 6-8 PM on Wednesday. june 11th. or by appointment. Please send me your catalogue of summer courses. Ciry litate Zip UNION ·.: Union CoUege, Graduate Sludies and Conclnuing Education W~lls House, I lJnion Ave. Schenectady. NY I Z308 ( s 18) 370-6288 Psychology Sociology Statistics come in early and sign up at PCR, April 28, any time. A local firm applying for a Federal Grant may be hiring three persons full-time to collect detailed accident data for a three-year period. Student should have degrees in Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, or Behavioral Sciences. If you are interested in applying, please contact Charles W. Manning at 439-4991. We have literature in Placement. Eastern Air Lines, Inc., International Airport, Miami, Florida needs flight attendants and enginneers. Please stop by Placement for a brief swnmary of the positions and also the . address to which you should send your resume. Donnelly Marketing, Division of Dunn & Broadstreet, have entry level positions available for programmers for geographic and demQgraphic information processes. Student should have a knowledge of either COBOL or FORTRAN. They are interested in Com- puter Science, and also Economics, Math, Sociology, Psychology, ML, Bio Majors who have taken either COBOL or FORTRAN. Please stop by Placement as soon as possible to let us know whether or not you are interested. Student __ _ Government e • • Continued f.rom page I Student Government.\ Each student will receive <J copy of the proposed con- stitution in their mailbox Thursday morning. If there an· further questions, students may • address them to any member of the Forum. \The referendum on Plus- Minus will be strictlv non- binding,\ President ·Plumb reported. but it will enable thl· Forum to get; a sense of the student body'S feelings on this issue. It tells us if we should do something about it, and gives us some substance to work with in front of the Educational Policy Committee. In addition to the options of complete ap- proval or disapproval of the system, the ballot will give students an opportunity to suggest modifications of the system.\ 'The Office of Placement and Career Resources, in· conjunction with the Student Forum is pleased to present AN INFORMAL TALK BY PRESIDENT JOHN S. MORRIS on \What Can You Do With a Liberal Arts Education?\ Wednesday, May 7, 3:30p.m. at Strauss Lounge. All are invited to a·ttend the presentation and the informal discussion with refreshments Trustees •.. Continued from page 1 response to demands by Union women for greater variety in the sorority system. As with the Carnegie renovation, no action was taken at this time, but the Board was pleased to be in- formed of the state of frater- nity-sorority affairs at present. The Trustees were also pleased with the physical state of the campus and the planning that is being done by the ad- ministration in this area. A special mention was made of the role students have taken in maintaining the physical plant. The Board was presented with an update on the energy con- servation program, which seems to be progressing steadily. The Administration announced the establishment of an Inventory of Campus Needs designed to target areas in need of special attention and to keep track of deferred maintenance projects. Actual priorities will not be established until a comprehensive study of present maintenance needs and the future of all college property is completed. The Academic Affairs Committee of the Board heard a report from Dean of Admissions Nourse concerning the prospects for the Class of 1984. The Trustees were pleased to hear of the 12 percent increase in applications and the 30 percent jump in campus visits by prospective students. The Dean also reported that eleven alumni admissions corrunittees had been established across the nation to help recruit students. Robert Massa, the new Director of Financial Aid, was in- troduced to the Committee. The Committee also received a number of status reports from Dean of Faculty Paula P. Brownlee. She reported that the Academic Opportunity Program, designed to recruit minority students, was un- dergoing a comprehensive review that includes the use of a consultant from Oberlin College. Hope was expressed that this program could be improved. T'he Trustees were also informed that the first seminar in the Steinmetz Honors Program had been offered during the winter term and that early indications from those involved had been positive. Dean Brownlee, supported by the testaments of · a number of the faculty present, reported on the progress of the Freshman Preceptorial program. Everyone present expressed a desire that this program be expanded to allow all freshmen to take advantage of it. In the a rea of financial matters, the Board of Trustees took a number of routine ac- tions. The bottom-line figures for the 1980-81 budget were approved. The Board also passed an amendment to the College retirement plan to become effective next year that increased the College's con- tribution and slightly lowered the amount paid by the em- ployees. The Trustees were glad to note that the endowment was doing well, despite the rather shabby nature of the economy at the present moment. A number of different plans were discussed for encouraging donations to the endowment in conjunction with the Campaign for Union. Chief amongst these were plans to establish a special high-yield fund and a life in- come program. Financing for the first stage of the energy conservation program has also been completed. In all, though the most recent meeting fails to qualify as a \thriller\ by any means, it did accomplish a number of wor- thwhile aims. Board members were pleased with the in- formational nature of a number of the meetings-in which the\ were brought up to date on a variety of campus affairs Perhaps of greatest importance was the official kickoff of the \Campaign for Union\ em· phasizing the forward vision. and solidity that Union has time and again displayed.

Page 10 OON()ORDIENSIS, April !if, 1980 6porte Josephson Brothers Receiv.e Honors Somehow or another, brother combinations seem to stand out in professional hockey much more than in other sports. The names of Esposito, Hull, Howe, and Mahavolich bring to mind brother acts which have left their marks on .the NHL. The Union College Hockey Team., 1980 version, boasted a set of brothers who ( 1) ob- viously cannot compare to the above names in pure hockey ability, but (2) probably can stand with the aforementioned in terms of respect from their coaches and peers: In announcements released earlier this week by Achilles Rink, Dave and Jim Josephson were honored by being named MVP of this years team, and captain of next year's team, respectively. When asked for comment on the announcements, Coach Charlie Morrison felt that no better choices could have been made by the players. The MVP honor, he felt \was well deserved by Q!ive. He had an outstanding year, and will sorely be mis11ed next year, not only for his leadership on the ice, but also off it.\ He con- tinued by wishing Dave the best of luck in the future, and by recognizing the fact that after 4 long years of varsity hockey, Dave went out on a high note. This year was definitely the high point ofthe senior goalie's varsity career. After seeing much bench time due to two legitimate NHL goalies (Steve Baker, now with the Rangers, and Jim Baxter, since retired from the Redwing organization), Dave split last years duti~s- with Mike Merlo, but failed to notch a win with the young, inexperienced club. This year, Dave spent almost half the season groping for that elusive first win, but then went on a spree which saw him win 7 of the next 9 games he started. His hot goaltending (a final average of 3.9 goals against very respectibles) was a main reason why the teBil\l jumped from a 5-21 record and mediocrity to a 12-14-1 mark and serious playoff contention this year. · Brother Jim returns next year to captain the team in his fourth varsity season, a \crucial year\ by Coach Morrison's standards, he is hoping that the upswing in the program continues. \'Jimmy's taking on a tremendous responsibility\ said Mor.rison, but added \I'm sure he can handle it .. '' Jim, although not scoring as much as. usual this year, was a cog on the high scoring line along with this year's captain, Mark Haley and Bill Mason. Jim finished the year with 6 goals and 11 assists, and like brother Dave, was a catalyst to team unity both on and off the ice. Aside from the lengthy hockey seasons, the brothers. . Josephson work hard at en· joying their coll~giate years. The Canadien natives, both fine economic majors, can readily be found either keeping. their brothers at Chi Psi in Stitiches, competing against each other in raquetball, or enjoying a quiet game of golf. To say that Dave will be' missed is a gross ·un- derstatement; coaches, fans, and t'eanunates aU wish him luck and these three groups also wish luck for brother · Jim's chance to lead the Garnet next year. Capta.in of 1980-81 flying Dutchmen, Jim Josephson A View From The Stands- by DOUG SILVERSTEIN The Cincinnati Kid is no longer Paul Newman. Rather, Mike LaCoss, Charlie Lei brandt and Frank Pastore have gained my label of the Cincinnati Kids. These three Reds represent the future of the paseball team. Once the nemesis of the team, the pitching has become the backbone of the team. The three have five complete games already between them in the short season and are the reason why optimism covers the Red clubhouse these days. One must be curious why Ali will be fighting Mike Weaver for the heavyweight crown. Another setup for Ali to be champion, and not at a more perfect time than now, with Weaver being less than a for- midable champ after a recent upset over John Tate. Some rope by the dope. Now that Jim Valvano has left Iona for tlie coachingjob at N.C. State, Jeff Ruland, star center, may reject his senior year and turn pro. Several recruits have already reversed their 1 decisions to attend Iona in a reaction to Valvano's depar- ture. Sad story in Roger Moret. One time Red Sox phenom who was traded to Texas and later d.eveloped psychological problems, was dropped by the Cleveland Indians fiefore the season started. A one-time outstanding prospect, he joins Pedro Borbon, Manny Sar- miento, Bruce Bosclair and other well-knowns who were dropped. Speculation is that Larry Brown is seeking the Denver Nuggets' coaching job. again. After taking the UCLA Bruins to the finals in the college tour- nament, one has to real~e his worth. Denver had driven him out of town, a mistake indeed. quarterback as long as he was Oiler coach. Rumor has it that Pastorini was spending time with Farrah Fawcett. - - Jim Craig's pro tenure was shortlived. After winning his first game, he could not win thereafter and was told to take a vacation. He was reportedly suffering from exhaustion. The most successful ex-Olympian is Steve Christoff, who after· a slow start, engaged upon a point-per•game spurt. Other prospects are Ken Marrow of the Islanders, Mark Johnson of Pittsburgh, and possibly the best, Mike Ram!!ey-of Buffalo. Best Olympic goalie was Vertonnen of Finland. Track Places Third Rogie Vachon claims that hypnosis helped him regain his - usual goaltending expertise. Nevertheless, the Red Wings failed to make the playoffs, the only team of the original six not Odds 'n' Ends ... Vincent Van Patten, former TV star, is gaining stature on . the tennis circuit. He has moved up enormously in world rankings .. . Mark Fidrych's demotion may have a lot to do with the ongoing feud between the \Bird\ and manager Sparky- Anderson. ·He has been a disappointment since his· rookie heroics, due to arm problems ... San Diego Chargers claim they'll continue to use the signals that sup- posedly cost them a playoff game last year . • . Rumor is that Kevin Loughery will coach Bullets, Dick Vitale the Nets, and Dick Motta expansion Qallas next year. \E\ Hayes may go along with Motta . . . Dave Winfield's proposed salary allows him to veto any sale of the San Diego Padres .... The new soccer season opens without Kyle Rote, Jr., who is vacationing this year. Dallas will miss him, just as Cosmos will miss Tuert . . . Big .story in golf is the comeback of Johnny Miller . . . Most impressive baseball rookie is Joe Char- bonneau of Cleveland, don't you agree? Thanks tq a pair of sprint victories by senior Matt Guilfoyle, the Union College track team finished third in a quadrangular meet at Binghamton: Union scored 41 points to finish in front of St. Bonaventure (11 points) while losing to Binghamton (71 points) and Mansfield State of Pennsylvania (62 points). Guilfoyle won the 200 meter dash with a time of 22.8 ·and the 400 meter dash with a time of 50.8.. The double victory was - especially _gratifying for the slim senior since it was only his second meet since suffering a hamstring pull in March. Both times qualified Guilfoyle to participate in the state championships in May. Ruggers 3-1 This Saturday, the Colgate University Rugby Club hosted Clarkson, Hobart, and Union for their annual tournament. In the first round Colgate crushed Hobart 43-6. Union dumped Clarkson 19-4. Terry Weber touched two down while Brad Nicholson and Steve Carter added one apiece, A three-noint kick by Danny May put the final touch to Clarkson. The Match-up of the final game was Union vs. Colgate. It was one great rugby game and even though the final score was 8-4, no one left the field a loser. Union proved themselves in one of the toughest tournaments in the east. Union's record stands at 3 and 1. In addition to Guilfoyle, two other Union athletes posted wins. Vaulter Jim Zalucki cleared 13' 6\ to win the- pole. vault and freshman Adam Licht heldoff a late surge by Tony Banks of Binghamton to win the 1500 meters by one-tenth of a second in 4:03.8. Senior · Dan Frantz con- tributed a second place to the team scoring with a 158 foot toss in the javelin. Freshman Ed Arnheiter and Gerry Wellds also contributed with third place finishes. Arnheitel' finished third in the 5,000 with a time of 15:10, while Wells finished third in both the 400 meter and 120 meter hurdle events.- Decathlete Dave Wallace, scored in four different events. Wallace prepped for this weekend's state decathalon ch(!mpionships by ·finishing third in the 100 meter dash, the pole vault, -the long jump and the triple jump. . .. ' to do so, and Rogie was too unimpressive to justify his huge salary. ...... The annual football draft is approaching with Detroit ·ex\ · pected totake Billy Sims as the No. 1 draft choice. San Fran- cisco,. which is in a strong . bargaining position to acquire players in return for a No. 2 choice, should remember the last time they were in this position. They traded a No. 1, Terry Miller, to· Buffalo, for O.J. Simpson .. Since then, the · franchise has ..§Ynk. Taking Charles White, USC star and local favorite, would be their best bet. Best crop il). the draft are running backs and defen· , sive backs. Speaking of O.J ., his retirement was too unglorified for. a player of his stature. The trade of Stabler for Pastorini may have seemed inevitable, but not really to Pastorini. Supposedly, coach Bum Phillips of Houston told Pa.storini that he would be his LaJi byTU The Unio Lacrosse s~ hover arow with a cutr4 result of two against Br4 Colgate an Middlebury. upsets in an: as Union superior in against Bro while fifth 1 Middlebtlr~ power·ed 1 quickness a Our la}!:lli Brockport l; result was~ Dutclunen. out slowly c: the first pel net Union': assist frorr SeanDurha also scored Union built Mark Sa~ an unassist• period. Ent the picture. ironsforUn over a t1 Additional were nett Knapper, !three), a ltwo)., prop to an insur after three provided throughout but six goal goal. In th teams exc goals, Dutc scored by l Fe1 The Uni Club won place in th the Skidm< Fencing Saturday. formal fen~ Unionente included b4 Union did competitio forfeit an· could havE event. Thetean Gold, Ron sberg and alternate representE by .How is l sports ci1 produce baseball we hav~ Yankee.s deficient should America while the pressed t A league lookanyf to find th On the names 1 RonGui( Rich GOl

OONOORDl!iJNSIS~ April 2-4, 1980 Page 11 6porte Laxmen Clitnb Over .500 by TIM'SULLIVAN The Union College Varsity Lacrosse squad continues to hover around the .500 mark, with a current ·record of 5-4, a result of two wins this past week against Brockport State and Colgate and a loss against Middlebury. There were no upsets in any ·of the three games as Union appeared clearly . superior in talent and depth against Brockport and Colgate while fifth ranked Division Ill Middlebury simply over- powered U.tPion with their quickness and strength. Our Laxmen travelled west to Brockport last Tuesday and the result was a 16-6 victory for the Dutchmen. The contest started out slowly and not until 8:35 of the first period did Jim Wright net Union' s first goal on an assist from Rob Fischmann. Sean Durham andRobSherman also scored in the first period as Union built a 3·1 lead. Mark Sackerson pumped in an unassisted goal in the second period. Enter N eH Kanner into the pictur~. The Big Bo split the irons for Union's next four goals over a two period spurn. Additional third period goals were netted by Paul the Knapper, Sean Durham rthl'ee), and Kanner again rtwo)., propelling the Dutchmen to an insurmountable 14-4 lead after three periods. Ted Kelley provided solid goaltending throughout the contest, allowing but six goals on sixteen shots on goal. In the fourth period the teams exchanged a pair of goals, Dutclilil.en billies · fieing scored by Rob Fischmann and Neil Kanner. The final was 16-6. Kanner finished- the day with seven goals and an assist, up- ping his season total to thirty goals in seven games and a second place ranking in goals scored for the nations' Division III Schools. Fellow attackmen Sean Durham added four goals and an assist,. while middie Romeo Romer added three assists. With visions of a national ranking dancing in the loins of the Dutchmen, Middleburg came to town last Saturday, only to spoil the dream with a resounding 24•7 victory. Union seemed as if nothing would go right. The goaltending and defensive effort · was shoddy throughout, particularly in the first half, as Middlebury bom~arded the cage with Shot after shot on their way to a 13-3 halftime lead. The second half did not subsume with the an~ ticipated Dutchmen comeback as goals by Sackerson, Fisch- mann, Durham, and Knapp could not offset eleven second h~lf goals by Middleburg. The final score was. 24-7. Mark Sackerson and Sean Durham each scored two goals in the losing cause imd Neil Kanner picked up three assists. The less saidabout this game the better. On to Colgate. . This past Tuesday, against Colg;;tte, the Dutchmen scored theiJ.\ goals in bunches, sand· wiched between occasional defensive lapses, particularly in the fourth quarter. Komer,' Durham, Wright, and -Dana Johnston all netted first period goals as Union surged tQ. a 4·1 lead. Union looked very sharp Fencers Win The Union College Fencing Club won an impressive first place in the foil competition at the Skidmore First Invitational Fencing Tournament last Saturday. This was the first formal fencing corrrpetition that Union entered. The tournament included both epee· and foil, but Union did not enter the epee competition and wa~ forced to forfeit any team points that could have been earned in this e:vent. The team of Doug Brum, Ken Gold, Ron Shelton, Kris For· sberg and Jeff Esakov (with alternate Bob Beard) represented Union College at the tournament and competed against fencers from RPI, SUNY Albany and Skidmore. Of the ten spots available in the second, round, Union fencers filled half and at the end of the third round Doug Brum emerged victorious, capturing the foil trophy and three team points. Fencers from Skidmore- and Albany placed second and third, respectively. After the epee competition, which Skidmore won and fen- cers from SUNY placed second and third, the final team standings were Skidmore with five points, SUNY with four; and Union with three and RPI with no points. and domi11ated Colgate in aU phases of the game. The second period consisted of goals by Konner and Durham offsetting a goal by Colgate for a ti-\3 halftime lead. Five third ,period goals by the Dutchmen apparently put the game out of reach, and traces of a smile could be seen across the face of Coach Fran Meagher. The goals were scored by Romer, Brian Walck, Steve Myers, Durham, and Sacker- son. In the .fourth period Union became complacent with their seven goal lead, and almost squandered it as five Colgate goals closed the gap. Two goals by Neil Kanner, one on a beauty of a pass from Rob Sherman, and one tally by Tom Conway on a nicely executed quick stick, pushed Un.ion to the 14-9 margin of victory. In this contest l>oth goalies J@hn Mercer and Ted Kelley wen~ very steady up until the fonrth period Colgate surge. In the scoring depart- ment both Kanner and Durham had three goals and three assists while Romeo Romer had This week~ Miller athlete of the week is freshman George Oberstadt, a catcher and out· fielder from Newton, Ct. This past week George had out- standing performances to-· key Fran. MeC~gher, Lacrosse coach two and two. Presently Kanner leads the squad with thirty three goals, followed by Durham with thirteen and Romer with ten. Union travels to Albany Wednesday for a contest verses traditional rival, Albany State before returning home this Saturday for a 2 pm game against archrival RPI. The RPI game should be a great event to bring your parents to this Saturday and a large and boisterous crowd is expected. Athlete Of The Week Union's. recent win streak. Oberstadt began the week by breaking the Colgate game open with a two run double. The frosh pro:vJded the crucial blow with a grand slam home run to nip Ithaca in the first game of Sunday's doubleheader. Oberstadt was originally going to be used as a reserve out· fielder and he did not see much action in the first few games. He was then inserted at catcher where he .turned out to be a pleasant surprise, according to coach Sakala, \George handles the pitchers well and gives us stability behind the plate. His agility and quickness is recognized by other teams and this severly limits their running game.\ Oberstadt usually hit sixth or seventh in the lineup and since he began playing regularly five games ago he has hit .333 going four for twelve, highlfghted by his game winning grand slam. George also has scored five runs, hatted in six, and stolen five bases. Athlete of the Week George Ooserstadt Sakala is most impressed by Oberstadt's attitude.\ George is always ready to play and to do the job. He never complains and he is dependable because he always comes to play\ Sakala feels that if Oberstadt continues playing and improving during the slUilmer, he will have a good future as a catcher. • • A City o-f Two Tales by DAVE RUDEN . How is it that the number one sports city in the country can Produce such contrasting baseball teams? ID New York we have the talent · laden Yankees, and the talent deficient Mets. The Yankees should contend for the American League pennant while the Mets would be ·hard Pressed to contend for a Triple A league pennant: One need not look any farther then the rosters to find the differences. On the Yankee roster' we see names like: Reggie Jackson, Ron Guidfy, Graig Nettles, and Rich Gossage. On the Mets the names are: Phil Mankowski, Neil Allen, Jeff Rear-don, and Mike Jorgensen (bring back Al Weis, J.C. Martin, and Dave Schneck and they would have one hell of a team). The main. difference is the Yankees have taken advantage .of free agentry while the Mets , have not. Many argue the validity of free agentry, but the point is it is a reality and should be taken advantage of. Without _ free agentry the Yankees would not be the team they are. _George Steinbrenner has tried to give the fans the team they want. He gets the players he needs and the team has been successful because of it. The Mets' olcl owners did not want to go out and buy the play(lrs and the team and the fans suffered. This was evident by the .fact that team attendance dropped dr-amatically, and the few good players the Mets had wanted out. ' Met fans should not despair, though.. While thiS season should be similar to the summer of '62, the future may be bright. The team was recently sold, and it looks like the new owners 'are willing to spend some ffi()ney. The new general manager, Frank Cashen, hopefully will do for the Mets what he did for tbe Baltim()re Orioles. The Mets do have some good young talent on the team. Craig Swan is very capable on the mound. If Pat Zachry can come back to his old form following a year-and-a-half hiatus due to injury, the pit- ching staff will be even better. Two others, Pete Falcone, and Neil Allen, could be surprised. Out . .in the field the Mets need to build around: Lee Mazzilli, Steve Henderson, Frank Taveras, and Joel Youngblood. Young Dan Norman could be a surprise. It will be an interesting summer in New York. On one side will be the Yankees, providing constant excitement as they battle for a pennant. On the other side the Mets, baseball's answer to Sominex, will provide constant laughter and ·flashbacks. Hopefully this will change soon. Although, Met fans deserve it. Double 0. T.: As far as the season in general look for New York and Milwaukee to battle it out in the A.L. east, while Kansas City should beat California due to a lack of Angel pitching in the west. In the N.L. East, Pittsburgh should hold off Philly and St. Louis. In the West, if someone wakes up the Astro bats, their pitching should be enough to carry them past L.A., with Cincy being a possible longshot. In October look for a New York-Pittsburgh classic. \.

-. Page 12 OONOOBDIENSIS, ~priZ 24, 1980 . - ' ~ - Baseball Wins Five Straight by GLENN KINNS F 0Uowing a discouraging 9-6 loss to Albany St., t'be baseball team rebounded by winning 5 straight games this past week, including a sweep of a pair of doubleheaders. Sophomore Glenn Kinns was hampered by sub-freezing temperatures in the game against Albany St. Kinns gave up three earned runs on4: walks and 2 hit batters in the first inning before being replaced by Dave Chused in the second. Chused put in another strong performance for six innings, giving up just 2 earned runs on seven hits, with 2 strike,outs and 1 walk. Senior Mike Hogan finished the game allo'\Ning 3 unearned runs in the top of the ninth, resulting from poor fielding. Offensively, Union showed signs of revival from the 3 game slump of a week ago, collecting 7 hits including 2 doubles, one by Jm1ior Dan Thomson and the other :by Freshman Todd Fobare. Thomson drove in three runs while sen~ors Joe Lavery and Damien Quinn each had one RBI. Junior Wayne Riker picked up the first of his fwo wins this' week against Colgate with an 11-5 victory. Riker struck out seven and walked just tw() while going the distance for Union freshmen Mike Saccocio -and George Oberstadt laced out 3 and 2 hits respectivelv while combining for - 3 RBI;s. The. · dynamic duo also scored 5 of the 11 runs and got 6 of the 12-stolen bases. Dan Thomson hit a sacrifice fly and a bases loaded single to drive in 3 runs and sophomare Al Bilibero rapped dut 2 one-baggers. Against Clarkson,. Joe Laver:Y hit a deep right-centerfield-- triple with the bases loaded to give the Dutchmen an 8-7 vic- tory. Lavery (1-1) picked up his first win, while going the distance for Union, striking out 5 and walking 2. In the second game, Kinns picked up his first win af the season (1-2) after recovering from another erratic first in- ning. Kinns struck out 8 and walked 2 as he picked up his first complete game of the year, posting the 5-3 win. Dan Thomson led the offense with 2 hits, including an RBI double, and 2 stolen bases. Todd Fabare and sophomore Torn Fletcher contributed ah RBI each. Union surprised Utica last Monday by sweeping a twinbill at Central Park. Wayne Riker (2-1) went the distance in the first contest, allowing just one earned run on 5 hits, while striking out four and walking four. The 5-4 victory came close to being a 4-1 loss, but freshman powerhouse George Oberstadt lofted a 360 foot, bases loaded, home run to give the Dutchmen the winning margin. Joe Lavery Tennis Wins Two This week past saw two of the most exciting Dutchmen tennis matches this season. Last Thursday Union slipped past Hobart 5-4 and this Tuesday for the first time in five years. the Garnet beat Albany State 5-4. For the last three years, Hobart has beaten Uni()n 5-4. This year things turned out differently. Number two singles sensation Doug \Fried\' Rice started-the ball rolling with a 7- 6, 6-2 win. Jeff Cohen, Union's consistent No. 3 man gave himself an easy match devastating his opponent 6-4, 6- 2. The third match off was won by Freshman Dave \Spare\ Patalita. His strong ser-ve and volley game saw hitn ruin Hobart's number six man 6-4, 6- 1. Steve Eskenazi had a tough time at number four singles as he lost 3-6, 6-4, 0.£. Junior Barny Rosenberg lost a heartbreaker at number five singles 6-3,5-7, 2- 6. This had the score 3·2 Union, with one singles .and three doubles left . to play on a blustery, sub-freezing day. NlUTlber two and three doubles went out to play while number one singles continued to play. At the end of singles play Roy Lipson had lost by one point 6-7, 7-6, 6-7. The score was now 3-3 and two of the three doubles had to be taken in order to win the match. By the time munber one doubles started Union had split the second and third doubles with Hobart. Doug Rice and Steve Eskenazi had won ·s4, 6-3 while Barry Rosenberg and Dave Patalita had lost 7·5, 6-3. This left the outcome of the match up to the undefeated number one doubles team of Jeff Cohen and Roy Lipson. Lipson got revenge for his loss as he and his teamcareers Cohen destroyed their op- ponents 6-1, 6-1. This big win moved Union to 2-1 on the season. On Tuesday of this week Union surprised a perenialJy strong Albany State team 5-4. Shrewd coaching by Coaches Bagnoli and Singh saw shuffling of doubles teams to insure the win. The first man off was Doug Rice at number three singles. He handled his State opponent 7- 5, 6-0. The next man to finish was number six man J3arry Rosenberg. His match was seeri as key by the coaches and he came through and expected winning 6-2, 6-4. Dave ''S.pace\ Patalita lost at n\lmber two to a very strong Barry Devine from Albany. Jeff Cohen again won his singles match 6-3, 6-2; at number four. An injured Roy Lipson lost at number one to ex- Union player Larry Linett 6-4, 6- 3. This saw a 3-2 Union ad- vantage with number five singles still on the court. Fresh- man Steve Eskenazi came back strong in the third set in front of a cheering Union squad to win 4- 6, 6-4, 6-4. This set the score at 4- 2 Union at the conclusion of the singles. Union needed one doubles match to win the match. The usual definite number one doubles was questionable because of Lip- son's injury. Therefore, the coaches moved Jeff Cohen from number one doubles to number two doubles to play with the very strong Doug Rice. This team won the day's clincher-6-2, 6·2 easily. Lipson and Patalita lost at number one doubJ.e.s_&o2, 6-4 to Linett and Levine. Number three doubles saw Eskenazi and Rosenberg split sets with their opponents. Since the match had already been won · by Union and the State team wanted to leave, the third set was decided by playing a tie breaker. Unlon lost the tie breaker 5-4 and therefore the match 5-7, 6-4, tie breaker. Union won 5-4 lifting the record to 3-1. The next match will be against Hamilton at 11 a.m. Saturday at home. Come out and support you -tennis team. _ collected tw() hits in the contest; as did Mike Saccocio. Saccocio also notched two stolen bases. Home runs by freshmen Todd Fobare and Walt Fredick drove in two runs each as the Dut- chmen slia past Utica 7-4 to complete the sweep. Al DfLibro slammed two singles in .typical fashion to round out the big hitters for Union on Monday. Senior Dave Chusedpicked up his first decision this year, as he struck out 4 and walked 3, giving up 5 hits and 2 earned runs. Union faces Siena, RPI, St. Lawrence· and Hamilton in the upcoming week and hopes to extend its 5 game win streak to 10 games. Now that the air is warming up, it is becoming prime · baseball watching weather. Come out to Central Park for the Dutclnnen 's home games. Wayhe Riker won two of last we~k 's g.;~mes. . - SpOrts Happenings Varsity Lacrosse Baseball Track Tennis Golf JV Lacrosse Softball Women's Lacrosse Aprii24-May 1 April26vs. RPI. April 29 at Syracuse AprH26at St. Lawrence (2) Apri I 28 vs. Ha mi I ton April29 vs. Norwich.~· May 1 at Siena - . April29 Albany, Williams at Williams Aprii26Vs. Hamilton Apri·l28 vs. RPI April 25 vs. Utica April 28 vs. Siena May 1 A IC, Williams at AIC April26 vs. RPI 8pril 29 at Syracuse _ April24 vs. RPI April 26 vs. St. Rose Apr.i I 29 at Oneonta May 1 at Colgate April24at0neonta (A&B) April25 vs. Middlebury April28 at Hamilton (A&B) April'-29 vs. Castleton May 1 at Colgate Laxwomen Split by BUTHAINA SHUKRI Co--captain Sheryl Katz and freshman Emily Monosson both scored hat tricks as the Women's lacrosse team romped Russell Sage, 11-3. The Dut- chwomen traveled to Emma Willard where they played Sage on Apr. 17. Coming off a disappointing loss to Army on the previous weekend, the team was encouraged and their scoring capabilities reaffirmed with their win. The game was quickly un- derway when freshman Holly Howard scored in the first two minutes of play. By the end of the first half, Union was clearly ahead, 8-2. f\!though Union only added three goals in the second . half, the team then looked its best: the offense and defense worked as a cohesive unit, passes were crisp and precise, the team moveg to more ground balls and anticipated in- terceptions. Union's potential began to show through. By the end of the game, every of· fensive player had scored at least one goal. · The excitement of the vat· sity's win spurred the JVon to a 9-1 victory over the Sage JV. Liz Miller and Mary Kowalczyk were high scorers with two goals each. Sue Bloomberg, a first-year goalie, did an out- standing job, letting .in on!y one goal. _ . The following S~turday, April 19, Union was not as lucky in their match against Hartwick. In front of sizeable home crowd, the Dutchwomen were beaten quite handily by a. skilled Hartwick team. The game started . on very positive play. Holly Howard, in what is becoming a fine habit, scored within the first fifteen seconds of the game. Defensive wing Felicia Wilton scored three minutes later, .giving Union a 2· 0 lead. Hartwick scored twice in a row to even the game. Union's Emily Monosson and Sheryl - Katz each scored and regained the two goal lead. These were the last goals of the game that Uqion was to score. By the end of the first half, Hartwick had added seven goals to lead, 9-4. The game was still within Union's reach asthe second.half began, but sloppy play and waning attitudes pulled apart Uni()n' s chances. The offense cou1dn 1 t hold onto the ball and the defense was constantly pulled out of position. Hartwick added ten goals while a bafflled Union team couldn't muster any strength. Despite the high score, 1'9-4, special mention must be made of goalie Johanna Briggs. Johanna, a sophomore transfer, played a fine game. Frequently, unguarded opponents shot on goal and the defense was not very helpful. Nevertheless, Johanna made countless saves in such one -tJH one situations. Her perseverance is truly ad- mirable. The JV's reflected the Var- sity's outcome once more as they lost 7-2. Mary Kowalczyk scored Uni{)n's only .goals. Mary is the high scorer for the JV's with four goals overall. Gret- chen Schwarz, Maureen Avalle, and Lisa Massaroni all displayed exceptional hustle. UnionplaysatOneonta today, .April 24, and at home against Middlebury -tomorrow. Hoping to better their 2-2· reco.rd, the Dut-chwomen are confident. FitzHu famous Eater, w only Oil graduati1 an enorn very be Ludlow r life. Mrs New Yor ''he held right ha book ba lasting f: Union's and th Memori: Medical cisco ho collecti materia Ludlo- son of ~ clt?rgyr Ludlow. precoci1 unrelet learned three 1 learnin father': cruelty early i By the· Pough Ludlo\\1 typical son.\ when I behavi proble plary: Ludl class Jerse~ Hear acade dismi: after burnE Pel'mi atten< not 1 princ! retut befor Uniot that 1 life. Hi: a pot: had l fasci had, \fav had over

.. ' QONOOR-lFJIE•NSIS, .A;pril 24, 1980 Page A Parents' Weekend 1980 Dorsey to Swing- Saturday by ANDYMCNUTT Ask someone what jazz artist they like, and you'll get answers like Chuck Mangione, Dave Brubeck, Herb Alpert, Sonny Rollins,. George Benson, Alliirt, and even Frank Zappa. There doesn't seem to be an all en- compassing definition of jazz. When you mention big bands, however, there's little am- biguity. The big bands had a definitive sound and unimaginable popularity in the '30's and '40's. The swing era had th~ gt·eat bands of Glen Miller, Tommy and Jimmy Dorsey, Harry James, Artie Shaw, Gene Krupa, and Benny Goodman. The music they played stayed popular longer than today's music and is still enjoyed today. . As the swi.ng era faded out, bebop .took its place with the bands . of Buddy Rich, Count Basie,' Duke Ellington, Marynard Fergu_son, Stan Kenton, and Woody Herman. These bands were based more on power, contrasts. and im- provisation than the style and melody of the swing bands. They had a large dedicated following, but not enough to match the swing era. Today, there are few regularly touring big bands. Buddy Rich, Maynard Ferguson, Count Basie, and Woody Hetm1;1n are the only ones I kll<lw of. There are also no new big bands arising to popularity. The pure musical thrill of a big band performing in a local nightclub is ali ·ex- perience that fewer and fewer people wUl be able to have. .There's not much jazz of any form being. played on radio today. But, as the generations that bounced to the sounds of the swing and bebop eras see their children leave home, they have more time to listen to the music they enjoy. As a result, the big bands will have plenty of work for the future. Union . College is fortunate enough to have .the JiJwny~ Dorsey Orchestra, lead by Lee ·Castle, perform Parents' Weekend at the Ramada Inn. Jimmy and Tommy Dorsey had been .gaining popularity Welcome to Union College for this Parents' Weekend. A fuH program of events has been arra11;ged and we hope that during the time you are here you will be able to have ~ome first-hand sense of what Un;ion is · . all about. You have, I have no doubt, heard much about the environment in which your son or daughter has been living and now we hope you will be able to see the College through your own eyes. We are prm,1d to share our campus with you, and we hope that the ,weather will cooperate.. · I hope that Mrs. Morris and I will be able to have the opportunity to offer our personal greetings to as many of you as possible during the weekend. With best wishes. JohnS. Morr1t'! President \-·- separately until1933, when-they organized their own orchestra. After two years, they split up. Tommy wanted a theater and dance band, while Jimmy and his alto sal!: aimed for a sweeter style. His success and that of the juke-box led to over 40 million records sold. ln 1953, the Dorsey brothers joined forces again to create the \Fabulous Dorsey Orchestra.\ Lee Castle had been playing with the. Dorseys for many years and as the family's adopted \third son,\ he succeeded the Dorsey brothers. as conductor of the group. I It should also be noted that a student big band, the Union Jazz Ensemble, will be per- torming in picturesque Jackson's Garden on Saturday from 2 to 4 p.m. Lee Castle-Conductor and star of his Fabulous Jimmy Dorsey Orchestra Tony Randall To Speak Friday Tony Randall is a comedian. You start with that and it is . something everyone accepts. -There is all that television- from \Mr. Peepers\ to \The Odd Couple\ to his recent CBS- TV series, \The Tony Randall Show,\-to prove .it. And those brilliant movie comedy roles. And the theatre. But the Ernmy Award- winning actor is more than a funny man. He's one of the more erudite and accomplished conversationalists. He's a real authority on opera and a serious student of the theatre and art. . You see him talking with Carson or Griffin or Douglas- and it's highly amusing con- versation. But you realize, too, that he knows what he's talking about. Above all, Tony Randall is an actor of seemingly limitless range. Yes. he can break you up with laughter as the widowed Judge of \The Teny Randall Show\ or as the fastidious Felix of \The Odd Couple\ or in the Doris Day comedies, but there's also something very human and touching about those baffled characters he has played. An~, when he has the opportunity, as in Broadway's \Inherit the Wind\ or such a movie as \No Down Payment\ _he can create a character of dtamatic strength---..with comical over- tones only pointing up the characterization. His series, \The Tony Ran- dall Show/' followed his highly successful five-year run of \The Odd Couple,\ which was based on the play by Neil Simon. Now, in syndication, \The Odd Couple\ is a phenomenon; many cities run two or three episodes nightly. graduated from Tulsa Central High School, then enrolled in Northwestern University, where he majored in Speech and drama. In New York he studied at Columbia University and tl:le Neighborhood Playhouse with the renowned Sanford Meisner. He \ also studied movement with Martha Graham and voice with Henry Jacobi, with whom he still studies. His Broadway debut was in 1941 in \A Circle of Chalk.\ Soon thereafter he appeared with Ethel Barrymore in \The Corn Is Green\ and with Jane Cowl in \Candida playing the role of Marchbanks. After a short stint as a radio announcer, he was set for Ella Kazan's production of \The Skin of Our Teeth,\ but, after rehearsing one day, he was called into the Army. He served four years in the Signal Corps, being discharged as a lieutenant. Pri~e Day 1980 Despite his busy schedule with movies and all of the many talk-show appearances he _makes, he is also a frequent guest star on variety shows. He fits easily into dramatic and . comedy sketches, and even sings and has been known to dance a bit, adding rating points . to these sbows with his ap- ~earance. After his discharge, he acted and directed in summer stock in Washington, D.C., before moving to New. York and a job with Henry Morgan's highly popular radio show . In the theatre came roles with the legendary Katherine Cor• nell in \Antony and ~Cleopatra\ and as the stuttering brother in \The Barretts of Wimpole Street.\ With Lilli Palmer and Sir Cedric Hardwicke he ap- penred-in Shaw's \Caesar and Cleopatra.\ 1 .~. J • j.J. . ' by ELLEN VAN D-YKE< . . . .. ', _;, ~~1;·. Prize Day will.l;>e held .i;tgain this year· during.; !?,a;rf!qts' Weekend so that parents can be on hand to see their ·sons and daughters in these ceremonies. The ceremonies will take place on Saturday April 26 at lll30 a.m. in. Memorial Chapel. The President of the College, Deans, and other administrative of~ ficials will be there to award thousands of dollars in prizes to d~serving students. The prizes are given in recognition of 011tstanding achievement and accomplishment by students in the areas of arts, athletics, sciences, and engineering. There are also prizes given in recognition of service con- tributions fo the College. During the ceremony, announcements are also made of those students whose academic achievements have been acknowledged by election to honorary societies for academic distinction, research, and distinction. In addition.to. the list of p.r~e$. in ,the College catalog, this year · there will be several ·new .. awards~ The.Silver Plate Award · presented by the Union College Food Services will be awarded to the student giving out- standing service · in the food department. The Wendy Bern- stein Memorial Award will be presented to a sophomore in recognition of service to the College. Meritorious Service Awards will be awarded to seniors. The President's Commission on the .Status of Women at Union College will be awarding prizes to senior and freshmen women. The fresh- man woman will receive the prize on the basis of scholar- ship, community service; and athletics~ A prize will go to the senior who has significantly contributed to the promotion of equality between the sexes at Union. Psi Chi, an Honorary Psychology Society. and the Delphic Society, a service organization. will be an- nouncing their new members. There will also be a special new prize instituted this ye~r, . tpat will be announced: at ·the ceremony. , '· · .. Following the ceremony, a printed list of all the prizes, their recipients,. and the new members of honorary societies will be available. Simon's Fe!U was one of. those roles that seemed to have been written for him. He's played it on the stage and was the immediate choice for the television version. Born in Tulsa, Oklahoma, the· son of an art dealer, h~ . / Tony Randall It was the Edward Chodorov comedy, \Oh Men!, Oh, Women!, •' which really established him in the theatre. He played Arthur Tanner, the bibulous movie idol (he was also in the Fox: fihn version, but in a different role). In the meantime, television had come into his life. He was a natural f()r the panel shows and his Mister Weskitt opposite Wally Cox in \Mr. Peepers\ made. him one of the most popular television actors of the day. · In the theatre, there was Lawrence & Lee's powerful courtroom drama, \Inherit the Wind\ starring Paul Muni, based on the famous Scopes trial. Tony's character, that of a cynical reporter, was based on H. L Menken. After seventeen months in the play, he was off to Continued on page . C ' '

' Ill c 0 E E VI Ill .. Page B OONOORDIEN818~ Ap.rU 84, 1980 Parents' Weekend 1980 Schedule Of Events April 2.5-27 ~. 14) c 0 > ..0 0 - 0 if Parents' Weekend Committee Dear Parents, Welcome to Parents' Weekend '80! We're delighted that you're able to talte part in this annual event specifically designed for you. This year, a wide variety of exciting activities have been scheduled, including a campus jog, an Ecumenical Worship Service with President Morris, a Frisbee tournament with Hamilton College, and the Jimmy Dorsey Or- chestra :dance at the Ramada Inn Saturday night. There are many other~ activities going on that you won't want to miss--check your packet for specific details. Whatever you choose to do, be certain to enjoy yourselves; after all •. this is your weekend!__,_ Sincerely, The Parents' Weekend Committee Fr.iday, April 25th 1:00-.t,:OO p.m.-·Open classes; admissions interviews for Union brothers-sisters - 3:00•6:00 p.m.--Registration, Carnegie lobby 3:30·5:00 p.m.-.-Denise Levertov, talk and discussion, \The Poet in the World,\ Strauss Lounge 1,:00 p.m.--Lacrosse vs. Middlebury 7 :00·9:00 p.m • •• • 6 Photography at Union\ exhibit, Schenectady Museum 8:00 p.m.--Poetry Reading with Denise Levertov, Strauss Lounge 8:30 p.m.--Coffeehouse, Old Chapel 9:00 p.m.--Speaker, Tony Randall, Memorial Chapel 9:00·11:00 p.m.--Cabaret, Carnegie Hall 10:00 p.m.··Fllm, The Graduate, SS016 Ill c 0 E .§ VI ttl ... J! >- .Q .e 0 if Tom Farrell and Charlie Tidmarch at Cabaret Campus Jog . Professor Bick will lead a campus jog Saturday at 9 a.m. All those i.n- · terested in participating should meet at the front of Alumni gym. The distance will be about 3 miles at a slow pace. Dance Demonstration and Short Performance will be held Saturday, April 26 (Parents' Weekend} at 3:30 in the Dance Studio ( Arts room 202} E .E ii) ~ . Jl. >- .0 o' 0 ..c Cl. · Verna Lowe and Rudy Nyedegger to perform at Cabaret Setturd.ay> April 26th- 9:.0() a.m. ·Noon--Registration, admissions interview, Old· Gym Han 10:00 a:m.-Noonp-Departmental receptions, Department Lounges 9:00 a.m.--Campus Jog through Jackson's Gardens : Ongoing Eve1tts--Displays, eKhibits, arts and crafts sales throughout the campus . J0:30.:.11:30 a.m.--Professor Thomas, Term Abroad information session --- 10.:30-i:OO p.m.--Brlll1:ch West Carnegie · 11:00 a.m.--Men's Tennis vs. Hamilton, Campus Courts 11:30 a.m.-1-.·oo p.m.--Prize Day, Memorial Chapel· Noon·J,_:oo p.m.--Art Exhibit, Nott Memorial . 12:45 p.m.--Campus Barbecue near Chester Arthur 1:00·3:00 p.m.--Financial Aid, Career Counseling and Alumni Office Open House 1:00-2:30 p.m.--Frisbee vs. :RPI . 1:00·3:30 p.m.--Women's softball game, Alexander Field · 1:30-3:00 p~m.--President's and Dean's Reception, Jackson's Garden; alternate Hale Ho:q.se 2:00p.m. ~-Fencing Demonstration, Library Field; alternate, Arts 202 2:00·4:00 p.m.--Jazz E!!§emble ConcertLJackson's Garden 3:30·4:00 p.m.--Dance Demonstration and Student Performance; Arts 202 · 3:30•4:30 p.m.--Alumni Gym and Pool open 4:00 p.m.--Lacrosse vs·. RPI, Garis Field 4:00 p.m.--Hillel Reception, Strauss Lounge 4:00·5:00 p.m.--Dormitory, Fraternity-Sorority Receptions 1,:30 p.m.--Men's Glee Club Concert, Memorial Chapel 8:00 &- 10:00 p.m.~-Film, The Graduate, SS016 9:00 p.m.-1:00 a.m.--Dance; Th.e Jimmy· Dorsey B.and at the Ramada Inn on Nott Street Sunday, April 27th 10:00 a.m.-Noon--Family Brunch, Pub 10:00·10:30 a.m.--Hugh Wilson Organ Recital, Memorial Chapel 10:-30·11: 15 a.m. --Ecumenical Worship, Memorial Chapel, President Morris 11:15 a.m.- Noon--Reception, Hale House 12:30·1,:00 p.m-.--Earth Day celebration, Library Plaza 1:30 p.m.·· Women's Glee Club Concert, Memorial Chapel 8:00 & 1():00 p.m.--Film, The G'railuate, SS016 The . Union College Grounds lfhe Men'$ & Women's Glee Clubs cordially invUe parents to attend their annual Parents' Weekend concerts. 01 Saturday at 4:30 p.m. in Memorial Cht~pel, the Wheaton College Choir joins our Men's Glee Club in singing Mozart's Requiem, among . other works. Sunday af- ternoon at 1:30 in Memorial , Chapel, Union's Men's & Women's Glee Clubs get . together to perform various selections including Vivaldi's · ( · Gloria and Alleluia Mo1et by ·. J.S.Bach. Admission to bqth __ performances is free. ' . . . The coHege dorrr\itorles are . celebrating parents weekend with special wipe and cheese reeeptions on Saturday af. ternoon from 4-5 p.m. Parents are encouraged to stop .by and tour .the dorms, chat with the RA's and meet other residents and parents. _ -·---- Lever Denise Le tinued to just twenty year: America's po she was. aw Marshall Po~ Freeing of Directions), continue to e: and public · threaded thr the past sev~ her tenth ve Ms. Leve~ London and Shecameto1 1948. The po' Double IIna by the Cres 1946. jlow Friday, /!l repertoire Union Col formed at spots incll Bigness a' courage .a p.m. and Res F11 of Pi tel Witl

-OONOOBDIENSIS; April e4, 1980 --------------~~--~----------------------------------------~~~------------------------------------------------------- Page C Parents' Weekend 1980 ~· Levertov-'The Poet In :The World-J Denise Leve.rtov has con- tinued to justify these worQs of twenty years ago by one of America's p'oetic giants. in 1976, she was. awarded the Lenore Marshall Poetry Prize for The Freeing of tber~ Dust (New Directions), suny poems that continue to explore the personal and public themes that have threaded through her work in the past several years and into her tenth verse book. Ms. Levertov was born in London and educated at home. She came to the United States in 1948. The poet's first book, The Double lnlage, ·was published by the Cresset Press London, . 1946. Jlowever, he.r first American publication was in Tlle New British Poets, an anthology edited by Kenneth Rexroth, published in 1948 by New Dil·ections. She has long since been consider{ld an American. poet and has published eleven books of verse here, as well as various small· press ,pamphlets. The books are. Here and Now (City Lights, 19.57) and Overland to the. Islands (Jargon, 1958)--both now out of print--and the following New Directions titles: With Eyes at the Back of Our Heads ,.(1960), The Jacob's Ladder .(1961). o Taste and See (1964), Th.e Sorrow Dance (1967), ltelearning the. Alphabet (1970), To Stay Alive (1971), Footprints (1972), The Freeing of the Dust (1975), Life in the F.orest (1978), and Collected Earlier Poems 1940-1960 (1979). In 1969 New Directions published Ms. · Levertov's translations of the French poet, Cuillevic, and in 1973, her first prose book, The Poet in the World. Idol and Minerva (formerly Lectures, Concerts, and Films Committee) will be sponsoring Ms. Levertov on Friday April 25 at 3:30 in Strauss Lounge. Her topic will be ''The Poet in the· Worfd.\ At 8:00 pm..in Strauss Lounge Ms Levertov will give a poetry reading. Admission is free and all ar:e welcome to participate. Denise Levertov ' Tony Randall . • • Continued from page A Hollywood and the film version of \Olr;Men! Oh, Women!\ - When he starred in the film version of George Axelrod's ''Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter'?,\ Life Magazine sununed up his fihn work by saying: ''Tony Randall is the finest new comedian the movies ~~ have fotind in a couple of 'decades.\ _ A complete about-face came with a performance of unusual dramatic depth--as the desperate, patheiic husband of Joanne Woodward in \No Down Payment\. But there have been many other notable Randall screen appearances: \Let's Make Love\ opposite Marilyn Monroe; \The Mating Game\ with Debbie Reynolds; the triology of his Doris Day-Rock Hudson movies, \Pillow Talk,\ \Send Me No Flowers,\ and \Lover Come Back,\ in which his special character becomes one of the dominant comedy elements' and his tour-de-for-ce Friday, April 25 ·Jim Bigness, folksinger, will perform his repertoire of Irish, Sea, Contemporary and original son,gs at Union Col i:ege Coffeehouse in the pld Chapel. Bigness has per- formed at many area coffeehouses, fraternity parties and night spots including Cafe Lena and the \Mostly. Fdlk\ radio S'how. Bigness accompanies himself on guitar and his sing-alongs en- courage auqience partici.pation. His performance beg ins at 8:30 p.m. and is open to the public. Parents' weekend Art Display characterizations in \The Seven Faces of Dr. Lao.\ There has been more theatre, too, notably the musical comedy, \Oh Captain!,\ based on the successful Alec Guinness filin, \The Captain's Paradise,\ as well as the aforementioned \The Odd Couple,\ which he has frquently toured with his television co-star Jack Klugman, to recard-breaking box-office receipts. Add a brilliant and original all sell-out touring version of \The Music Man!' To the despair of his agents he had to turn down lucrative movie offers--he has twice joined John Neville's repertory company in Nova Scotia. His Trigorin in Chekov's \The Sea Gull\ won raves from theatre critics. Make Your Reservations - Now Free Carafe of Wine Or Pitcher Of 'Beer With Your Meal . , , *:c;amatiQn For·Mom* Sat. April 26, 1-4 p.m. Prints will be accepted by Lorraine Marra or between 10 & 11 on Sat. a.m. at the Nott. Prizes will be awarded and the whole compus is imlited to participate. A mounting session will be held for photo· club members tonight at 7:00 p.m. in the darkroom. Dutch Hollow Pub Parents' Weekend Dinne·r HAJtBURGER CORNER VlffCH Bl!Rf.E'< t\t.'t JWT!Mo buJtgeJt c.oohed :the !•.'alJ you l.<.~e n !l·J.:th tomal:o .aYI:d ie.:ttuce I PIZZA SURGE~ ' · Jwnbo buJtgVL topped with p.i.z za ~ a.uc.e, mozz:evte-Ua dte:~e., and peppvwru. ASPEN BURGER . )W71bo bWtgVt ~~ved with mu..~h1t0om6 and .6 o uJL CJt.eam WINVMlLL BURGER. . ...... · Jumbo huig u topped tii-Uh bac.o It rutd · .6motheJted i.:n oUil chee!e uu:.c.e PUB BURGH - ~ · JwnbC bWtge.Jt .heAved with o.<&te.e.d mt.Uh1oo~ and otU.oM SAL~V SELECtiONS .CHEF SALAV . • · JUlienne .&t!U.p11 o6 TUJtk.ey Ham, SI.IJU':& ~heu.e. dJr.aped. oveJL a. be.d o 6 6Jte...~h te.ttu.c.e.. wU:h toma-to wedgu a.nd ho.Jtd c.ooke.d e.gg Sp]'MCH SALAV FnUit .t.phta.c.h t.uUh bacon, c.hoppe.d egg, a.nd oWt hou.& e· Meh-6-i.ng . .... SAlAD BAR Pre.n;ty on 6Jtehh qJte.e~ aiid a. m{.de. va.Jt.i.e.:ty 0~ g~he-6 SOUP r:p£1,J('I:f tWH 1 1J SOUP , Baked -tn .inlii.vidua.t cabMJtole, .topped ·with F!te.nc.h bJtea.d and mel.:te.d c.hee6e !JESSERT FJtoZM VogUJti..... . 75 C'he.e11e rake ..... 1.25 Chaco We CJtea.m Ple ..... Apple P.{e w/cheet,e. , •... 3.50 3. 95 4.00 4.00 3. 75 3.50 2.75 1 • 7 5 E'JTI<[ES N.Y. SIQLCI.\1 STEAK T/:,tck a.na juA_cu, b.w.{ie.d to pVt6eC..Uon ::>OAST VRUfE RIBS OF 73E[f ru;t the t•Jay you Uke. i:t K.i.ng Cu:t Qu.eert Cu..t LON VON B 1W1 L HwM-ted :to peJt6 ec:t<.o n, u.JLved with hot gMUc. buttvr. on :tcMt tJUTCH HOUrX!! snAK ' Te.nde.Jt Uea.k. mMi.mLte.d to a. ta.n,gy .ttu.te. VEAL CORVO.'I BLE41- .. W1~6io veal .btu6 6e.d w.U:h ~w:il..6 clteue. and p1W.6 c.u.i.ttc C'-11 C~EN KIEV m white meat bltetUt 6illed w-Uit ch-ive but:teJL RIBS ANV STUFfEP SliRIM!! T endvr. tU.b a.nd :two ju.mbo .&.tu6 6ed 6 h!Ump CHICKEN PAR~!1GANA . OuJL te.ndvr. c.IU.c.k en -6Ui.p~ co vvr.e.d wLth ~ pa.g e:ttt 6 a.uc.e, dn.d mo z zM.eUa. c.he.u e FROM TilE SEA I3ROILEV SCROV In: iemo 11 b!Ltte11., rne.Uo -Ln yo Ull mouth BROILED SCALLOPS TertdeJt, 6tt~ee1, -<:n,a de..Uca{e. ..uine 1 • 2 5 and bu.t.te.JL .aauc.e BAKEV STUFFED SHRIMP FoWL }umbo t.Wrnp with CJUtbme.a.t &.tu.66-i.ttg .95 .Q5 --... 8.95 10.50 9.50 5.75 6.25 7.75 7.25 '·' .00 5.75 5.25 1.50 8.50

P.age D OON008.DlE 11818, .April B4~ 1980 ----Restaurant Guide . . \ The. Crossing & The Club Car Lounge House Special: Prime Rib 4 p.m. - 2 a.m. Sat. 7 a.m .. -11: 30 Break- Dinner & Music at the fast 11:30 a.m.-1: 30 p.m .. Luncn 5:00 p .. m.-10: OOp.m. Dinner 370-7151 Next door to campus 450Noft St. Schenectady, NY 12308 1126 Erie Boulevard Please make reservations '. Schenectady, New York Salad Bar included with 6 oz. or more .. . HAAG EN· DAZS NATURAL IC.E CREAM VanDyck Restaurant -Schenectady 1 s Smartest Restaurant- Phone 346-9550 TeL (518) 346-7012 d; . ·~/' ~P.~~~-(J 237 Union Sf ScheneCtady, NY 374- 2406 Monday 'Thnrsday-9 a.m. to 11 p.m •. Friday and Saturday-9 a.m. t~· 1 a.m. . FEINKOST & KO.NDITOREl lOB Jay St. Schenectady NY12305 · Across from City Hall Join Us for Gourmet Lunch & Dinner Cocktail Lounge Your host Don Wlilliams 374-8107 WEEKEND DINNER SPECIALS Friday Fresh Sole or Alaskan Ki.ng Crab Legs $4.95 $5.95 Saturday Sunday 8oz. Tenderloin Steak & Boz. Strip Steak w- Baked Scallops Alaska.n King Crab Legs $7.95 $7.95 Salad Bar & Choice of potato or rice pilaf Serving Breakfast, -t!r. Lun.ch & Dinner . . Cor~er Of Balllown Rd. & tii :~:; Nott St. Schenectady · . . . _ ' Welcome Parents Perrino's Restaurant Phone 374-4515 Ralph Perrino Proprietq~ And Cocktail Lounge 2015 Rosa Road Schenectady, N.Y.l2309 FINE -at.~ )!_A GOOD FOOD~~~~.tt~Nll •y Featuring: v:?J\' Coquille St. Jacques Musc;ells Mor1n1ere Steak Au Po1vre London Broil Shrimp Scampi Broiled Scallops Ch1den Chasseur K 1ng Crab legs Bu~?:d Stuffed Sl'lnmp Crispy Duck s~~qfoorl Crepes Br1h~d F rAsh Scrod Served Mon. thru Sa1. Open Mon.· Thurs. 5·9, Fri. & Scat 5-1 1 616 UNION STUET. SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK 1230.5 ( 518). ~2-.553& '\·: ... <- ... , .. ,_,.<,· '·-·'- .,,.,• .... , ,~' .•. ::;;,~~-~·; ... ,f..;.-~·· '- ... /!_, ....... ,,:~ ·'' ,· •• 120 Lake Hill Rd. . Burnt Hi lis 399.;9139 . Hours 10 to, 9 · · 175 Jay Street Except Sundays Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 . Old Homestead Country Kitchen Restaurant Bill Hall & Ken Renaud . Yoi.n• Hosts Featuring: Vittles-Sippin' Spirits For Lunch: For Dinner: Deacon's Lunch, Granny's Special, Papa's Favorite - Steaks, Turkey Shortcake, Skillet Chicken, Seafood, Fresh Hot ~uiscuits Hot Apple Crisp, Hot Apple Pie Open 7 days a week Welcome Parents Make Reservations For Parents' Weekend Daily 10:30a.m.-10: 30P.m.,_Sun. 12p.m.c9p.m. Sund~:y Brunch, 10,1 -On I y 15 mins. from ca-mpus- The Pumkin Patch Featuring Steaks and Seafo·od Dinner Monday thru Thursday 5:00-10:00 Sunday 4:00 - 9:00 ·We accept MasterCharge and Visa · · Reservations are always a good idea Corner of Eastern Pkwy. & McClellan St. 393-2186 ireside Pizzeria Inc. & Sandwich Pub ~.Super Fireside Atmosphere ook The Area's finest pizza ~Mouthwatering Sandwiches & ~alads Welcome Union C~~lege Parents -393-0775 ....... A Culture.· May 1-4 SHQW: E: wor~from courses in sculpture, · printmakir . and drawi May.l fro from 1 a.n nasium of Almt~Y· . Dane~ April 27 Ethnic Dl . public i·S EasternD p.m. Ther1 · live mus entertain: .invited to FilmS May 1· productio tinues at· Russell S will beat·~ where it~ .further iJ 2344. Music April27 .featuring piano, w SUNY A Arts Cen1 concertw For furtl 4& we

