·~· ·tX) c: ·~ o;s· -- C--·· :au October 2, 1980 Volume 110, Number 3 • Flick To Flavor Fund Union Foosball, one of the many scenes to be depicted in the f.ilm. By JULIE ISGRO The heritage of Union-\a union of people\-never dies. Starting next Wednesday, Seven Seas Cinema will capitalize on this theme in a movie about Union designed primarily to \reacquaint .and re-establish'' Union Alumni with their school,\ as Robert Rasmussen,. Vice President of Student Resources, said. It will also be designed for general circulation. Originally, the idea evolved through the \Campaign for Union,\ whose purpose the film City Hosts 'College Day' .Sed-racing and a sub-eating contest are featured events for today's \Welcome Back, Colleges, Celebration\ in downtown Schenectady. Helmsman for Union's team in the bed races, at 9:15 p.m. at City Hall, will be Dean of Students B.obert H. Kellett. Beginning at 6 p.m. tonight, the Downtown Schenectady Association, an affiliate of the Schenectady County Chamber of Commerce, will sponsor this celebration to ·show students ' what Schenectady has to offer in shopping, entertainment and cultural opportunities. - From 6 to 9 p.m., merchants on Jay Street and State Street will offer special sales. See this issue of Concordiensis for coupons and other details. At Center City, corner of State 8 :30--Union's Ultimate Frisbee team 8:30-10:30--Caharet--Union's own in-house entertainment comes to City Hall, including Bill Diconza, imitator and MC; Jazz Ensemble :with John Sciortino, Kevin Angus, N·ed Rosen, John Levey, Mark Klaiman, and Paul Sabatino. Also performing vocal and guitar, Andy Levine. 9:05-Free Fabulo~ Campus Giveaway Drawing including his or her Frye-Boots. · 9ti5-Bed Racing. ;) f I ' ,- ';;;//! t I I) .. ,~- ) v \'7 and Jay Streets, M-ary 111 Bonknasko and Pete Perrone ~ will sing songs with guitar w accompaniments. Also en- tertaining will be mellow :::2 .. guitarist Andy Levine. The ~ Union Fencing Team will also -5 hold a demonstration in that ~ area beginning at 6 p.m. Team 1--Helmsman, Pvesident Wright L. Lassiter, s.c.c. Tearn 2;...Helinsman, Mayor Frank Duci Team 3-Helinsman, Robert Kellett, Union Tea rn 4--He lm.sman, Frederick Prince, D.S.A. PJ,'esident Teams from the two colleges will push the beds on a course that will take them twice around City Hall. 9:30-Eat (the Sub) To The Beat Contest-S.C.C. vs. Union The Subway, a new downtown establishment that opened ~ yesterday, will be serving free it sample size subs to those who get there early;- College ID's Downtown Schenectady, the site of this year's College Day. ' conveys. Althpugh Rasmussen admitted that he had his doubts for a while, he is now convinced that the filin is a worthwhile project. lie feels that among other things, the film win serve to show that the. basic substance of Union is the same now as it has always been, although there have naturally been some changes on the surface. Demonstrating this proved to. be a very challenging problem. Last spring, the College brought two film agents from two different companies to campus to get acquainted and formulate some ideas. Tony Stewart of Seven Seas was later contracted to do the film. \Union is a natural,\ he commented enthusiastically. It eight profiles will be chosen. Stewart also feels that the level of both student and faculty involvement is exceptionally high. \Students here take a lot fGt granted,\ he corrunented. He plans to show as clearly as possible the high level of in- volvement and the advantages of the school. He says simply that he'd like to portray the honesty and real beliefs of the people here. Another difficulty faces is the short production period. Although the contract was signed this summer, the film is scheduled to be finished by the end of January. Filming wHI begin next week and last until Oct. 18. was his idea that the \union of Both Rasmussen and Stewart people\ theme be used. feel that one of the most in- He plans to use a series of teresting and profitable eight interviews and a narrator characteristics of the film is to show that the essential values that it will probably be useable of caring and quality are still for at least the next five years. around. He was emphatic that This is hard to do, they say, if a \people make the best films.\ film is to portray real life as this And Union, he feels, has a great one is to do. There is also a deal of unique people and different emotional aspect qualities. involved with the film which He spent a week here earlier involves people and their ex- this fall doing notJring but in- ·pression of themselves. terviewing and doing -...... Eventually Rasmussen sees prospective profiles. From 20 to this as a \preamble to in- 25 people were interviewed volvement'' to be used totaling approximately 375 \anytime we want people to go hours on tape. From this, the for Union.\ Three Mile Island: One Year Later By EDWARD DIAMANTE As one looks across the Susquehanna River from the TMI Observation Center to the immense cooling towers of the Three Mile Island Nuclear Generating Station, the view is breathtaking. The four towers, crucial to the cooling process of the reactors, add a sense of mystery to the structure and will be required for this and all other specials and events. At the Schenectady Museum on Nott Terrace, open from 6:30 to 9 p.m. tonight, there will be a speci_al planetarium. show at 7:30 p.m. It's approximately 40 minutes long and is called \Cosmos.\ While at the museum, check out the sculpture of a welder by local artist Alice Manzi. New Frafemity Housed present an awesome spectacle to the many visitors who come here-as I have-to see for themselves, and to puzzle over, this controversial nuclear generating plant. Newsmen no longer camp in the field ad- jacent to the observation center waiting for a story to break, as they did over a year ago following the March 28, 1979 accident in the unit 2 reactor. Instead, there is relative quiet by the observation center, while across the river workers per- form the painstaking task of repairing the crippled reactor at TMI-2. Free donuts ayd cider will be offered outside Graubart's Jewelers tonight.- (Three Graubart generations graduated from Union.) Across the way from the jewelers, Ingrid's Restaurant will feature a working seven .. foot music box. Also downtown is Proctor's Theater on State Street, where the Schenectady SymphonY will tonight be hosting a public rehearsal. Across the street from the thea~ is Center City, at the corner of State and Jay Streets. This new complex houses a new ice rink, and free passes will be available tonight for a future open skating session. Events tonight will be topped off with a block party outside of City Hall, from 8:30 to 10:30 p.m. A schedule of events: By SUE BLOOMBERG Kappa Sigma, a fraternity recently rechartered here~ has found its way of dealing with the College's problem of over- crowding. Their purchase of a house on Seward Place will provide fodging for 12 brothers beginning in the winter term and eventually for more brothers, as a result of house improvements. Although Kappa Sigma is recognized as the newest fraternity on campus, its history at Union College is quite old. The fraternity existed here from 1929 until its charter wa& suspended in 1964. The in- ternational headquarters visited Union in 1977 in hopes of rechartering Kappa Sigma on campus. Enough interest was shown in order to start a colony and as a result the fraternity was. rechartered in 1979. The problem that became apparent after Kappa Sigma acquired its charter was the lack of housing facilities to accommodate its members and fraternity activities. During the 1979-80 school year, !Cappa Sigma was housed on the first floor of Hickok House. In the winter of 1980, the fraternity began to look for alternative housing, that would provide the space and privacy needed to carry out fraternity functions. One possibility discussed was the building of a house on-campus. The fraternity decided against this option because of the expense involved. Through careful search and consideration of housing available both on and off- campus, the fraternity even-, .tually decided to invest in a house on Seward Place, im- mediately behind the Fox and Davidson parking lots. They were able to accomplish this thr()ugh alumni donations and aid and largely by a national fraternity loan, which just :recently came through. At p~sent, the fraternity is somewhat scattered, with nine members living in Fox and some eight others else.where. The move into this house will provide Kappa Sigrpa with a greater sense of unity, which it has had trouble acquiring because of housing problems. The major question raised as a result of this movement off- campus involve housing and zoning laws. Technically, - the College can \force all frater- nities to live either on or off- campus. At this time, all fraternity housing is on cam- pus, although this has not always been the case. As far as the legality of Kappa Sigma's move off-campus is concerned, they have worked closely with the Housing Director and the Dean of Students. Zoning laws have also kept the settlement of fraternities within the campus gates. Kappa Sigma found that laws exclude fraternities from living above Lenox Road. After investigating the zoning laws that apply to specific houses on Seward Place, the fraternity found no zoning obstacles in purchasing a house there. New Programs to AUeviate Fear Since the accident at TMI an aura of fear has pervaded throughout the country threa_tening the very existence of the nuclear indusb'y. According to nuclear proponents, this fear is groundless, and they are taking measures to alleviate what they consider a distorted charac- terization of the facts, putting a false appearance upon the relative dangers of nuclear power. One of these measures began last April when TMI began publishing the monthly newspaper, \TMI Today,\ to \give in-depth coverage of various aspects of the recovery effort and ... address the issues facing TMI and the industry.\ Copies of \TMI Today\ will be made available to TMI em- ployees ;:tnd \will also go out to the industry and the public.\ The newspaper does present a Continued on page 3

Page 2 OONOOllDIENBIB, OctoberS, 1980 Editorial: City Opens Arms Early October on this campus is the time for the realization that we've got to get back. to work, but it's also when downtown Schenectady sponsors its annual College Day, which iS today, Oct. 2. FolloWing a\ Union traditlon, most students will probably ignore this just as they may be about to ignore the rest of this editorial. The downtown College Day seems to be an attempt by the me,rchants to offer students as much con- venience and hospitality as they can. Merchants, will sponsor sidewalk sales and dlscomts for students with IDs. Thi-s year there will be free passes and coupons given out and entertainment. From 6 to 8 p.m. in the evening Union students will perform in front of City Hall. Jay Street will be closed and everything will be geared toward students. All 1 of this can do no good, however, tmless we, as students, take advantage of it. Schenectady seems to have acquired a reputation on campus that it does not entirely deserve. Although Schenectady does not have as much to offer as New York or Boston, it does have its own share. In the past year, major revitalizations have taken place in the downtown area. A new mall complex scheduled to open Oct. 15 is under construction that could possibly surpass any in the area. The mer- chants are anxious to have Union :students as customers. This mall could be very beneficial to students and merchants if successful. , Although it might be hard to believe that anything special could possibly be happening to downtown State Street, that is exactly what is happening. Today, College Day '80, could be a chance to become reacqUainted with the city we're all going to spend at least four years of our life in. Four years is a long time to spend locked away ignoring the community we live in. A common complaint of students is that Schenec- tady has nothing to offer. Now it seems that Schenectady is making the offer. It is up to us to do s.omething about it. Morris the Cat: In Perspective By SVENPAUL It was a quiet Sunday evening and I was all set to settle down to a solid hour of 'Trapper John, M.D.' Just as I popped off the tab of my first Bud, I was in- formed that 'Trapper John' was being pre .. empted by another one of those annoying public service programs. This one pertained to the worldwide starvation crisis. Well, with sagging hopes, I slumped into my chair for an hour of bulging bellies and half filled rice bowls. As I watched the program, I couldn't help wondering why we needed these programs in the first place. I mean, after all, we're all acutely aware of the worldwide hunger problem. We all ''give at the office.\ Was it really necessary to preooempt Gonzo to tell me something I already knew about? The first 15 minutes slipped by pretty quickly. Cameras focused on the children of Cambodia and Pakistan. Statistics ~ere presented revealing the high mortality rate in these areas of the world. The shots were saddening but not terribly shocking. I mean, after all, we've all seen these film clips before. We know how aweful hunger really is. A commercial was coming up, so I figured I'd stroll over to the refrigerator for another beer. Just as I was leaving the livingroom, my eyes were ·struck by this fuzzy whiter cat on the tube. Sure enough, it was our old friend Morris the Cat. It seems that poor Morris was still unable to find that perfect blend of tuna, liver, kidney, egg, and seafood mix to satisfy his finicky appetite. He was as yet unable to do the \chow chow chow\ with his buddies after receiving their scrumptious meal of bite sized soft and juicy, savory chunks of real tuna. No need to fret, however, for this· story had a happy ending. Much to the delight of his owner, Mrs. Jones, Morris finally found that magical can of food to satisfy his gourmet tastes: All was once again jubilant in the Jones household. Shortly after, the commercial ended, and I found myself back in the midst of an arid desert with a starving tribe of bushmen. · Now, mind you, I have nothing against cats. Nor do I possess any strong objections to our capitalist economy. Morris' problem cannot be atttibuted to any character flaw in cats. Neither can we blame our free market system for supplying such an overabundance of tasty feline treats. After all, where there is excessive demand, supply will soon rise to meet it. I simply feel that the American consumer has misplaced his priorities. It is peculiar to note that while two thirds of the world population is suffering from some form of malnutrition or another, the American consumer can actually be so concerned with obtaining the best possible dinners for his cat. Certainly, I am not ad- vocating a starvation diet for all American house pets. However, I do feel that if Americans are so concerned with the diet of their pets, it is appropriate that a much greater emphasis be placeCl on satisfying the basic nutritional requirements· of a large majority of the world community. I do not believe many people would disagree with the statement that the preservation of a hwnan life is of much greater importance than what typ~ of food we feed our cats. It is time to put things in perspective. We should focus our efforts on feeding the people of the world before we tackle the problem of satisfying Morris' finicky appetite. Blue Skies Over Union C. Vonkannewurff and S. Seibert here, filling in for the vacationing D. Booth. Although himself on a term abroad in Bath England, his spirit will nonetheless be working through us this term as ••atue Skies\ is written thisterm. Therefore, we claim no responsibility for what is written in this column, as we are but the servants of a power greater than ourselves. While walking past the.. trenches . in front of Carnegie Tuesday I happened to catch a fleeting glimpse of vivacious green amid the otherwise un- ca pti vating dullness of the earth. On closer inspection, I beheld the frightening figure .of an alligator. I regained my cGmposure on finding it but a cheap plagiarism of that worthy repti'le. As I stood in con .. templation ·of this apparition, rny blood began to rise as I decided that my old and trusty friend, Carnegie Hall, through By USA LIVSHIN. Are you familiar with that phrase? It's not a singing group like the Colgate 13 and it's not an underground group of Union freshman plotting to overthrow food services. It is an old phrase that refers to poundage. The myth is that most freshman gain about ten pounds in their first year at college. There are a few reasons this might and often does happen to freshmen.: A. Nerves-some people eat away their anxieties. I've seen this type. It's not drugs or alcohol or cigarettes--it's Pepperidge Farm Milanos or Reeses peanut butter cups or chocolate Rolos. Usually this Type A person stands out because he or she never com .. plains ,about the West dining hall food and actually seems to enjoy it. B) Ignorance-- You are confined to eating in one place. You don't like what is served, so you pick out the things that do appeal to you. What can \they\ do to mashed potatoes, brand- nanne bread, ice cream or chocolate cake? Unfortunately, it always seems easier to ruin something with protein in it (Meat! ) than to ruin a car .. bohydrate or a starchy food. So without thinking, you feel you must eat something to get your meal plan's worth and you choose the caloric foods. Now; don't be fooled by a tYPe B person. It's usually the one sitting next to you who seems so calorie-conscious. She'll make herself a heaping ·salad with vegetables (no dressing please! l and pick at it awhile, being sure not to miss any of the bread crumbs. Then she'll help herself to a heaping dish of chocolate marshmallow ice- cream (because she's oh-so hungry and barely had any dinner) and she'll probably return for more. Thisis usually the sanne person that brought her own bathroom scales to some demertatation had turned \Preppie.'' As if the alligator was not content to garnish itself upon sweaters and shirts, he was now undermining the very foundations of Union College. As I turned my hack to that revered old edifice, I was sorely tempted to walk around back and see if I might spy a sweater tied around those hallowed eaves. But that would have been a blow too cruel for me to bear. I continued mY wa,lk beneath those blue skies with a awareness. No longer could I view \preppie\ as a passing fad; it had become a blig:ht eating away at my dear,est friends. Now that I have been enlightened I can see the transformation in my friends, and my perspicacious eyes can discern the early stages of this disease. Much as a boil may appear on one's body before a disease becomes obvious, so may a single article , of preppie school. C) Time--All of a sudden, the days seem longer. That is because they are. You are uptill 3 a.m. cramming for an exam, typing a paper, or talking late with the students in the next suite. If it's 3 a.m., let's figure you finished with dinner at 6 p.m. Wow! It's been nine waking hours since you've eaten. Your stomach growls. Now in this situation, the average freshman will not sit down and eat cheese and crackers or fruit or even yogurt. I Sor:ry Mom! ) At 3 a.m. you can't call out for health food or go out to a salad bar. No~you call out for pi-zza, drive and get greasy fast food or run to the Mini-Mart and buy Freihofer's Chocolate Chip Cookies to munch out on. Soda, you always drink soda because things like Fritos and cookies make you thirsty. Maybe you consume beer. At 18 and 19, you may not get a beer belly, but you'll get the poundage in other un- desirable places on your body. Think about that next -time you run to a fraternity party for all the free beer. / If you have spotted· yourself· as a Type A, B, or C person- Watch out! The Freshman Ten does not happen to everyone and it certainly does not have to happen to you. Just try and remember two things to help you keep the ten off. 1) Dieting is a way of life- eating styles are formed habits. It doesn't mean cutting out cookies seven days a month. 2) Never eat because \it's there.\ Sure, mountains were climbed and land was discovered because they were there, but weight was gained because the food was there. Think about what you put into your mouth ahead of time, and NEVER EVER eat calories you don't really want. (Even if you've been told to clean that plate!) clCJthing creep into your friend's wardrobe before his mind is lost C()_mpletely to the afflication. So I warn all to beware the ''blazer\; it is actually' a blister. Beware the alligator, it is a reptile that can overpower. Beware the gold buckle belts; d()uble shirts and buttondowns. Beware the khakies, argyles and docksiders. All '-are but symptoms of a inanity sweeping over Union. 'The time has iome that more women wear sport jackets than men. And so all true children of Union should beware th~se symptoms and take heed, lest we drown beneath a sea of reptiles. . ' concorOiensis Editors .. in-Chief Jim Davis, Julie Isgro News Editor Joe :Maguire, Gale Vanore Features Editors Judi Chervenak, Fred Fender Arts Editor Bob Fox Photo Editor Rich Sher Sports Editors Bill Curtin, Rich Hope Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowicz Sports Photo Editor Tom Conway Layout Editor Rachel I. Mandel Business Manager Larry Leavitt Subscriptions Editor Ellen Burger Calendar Editor Maria Manfredonia CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, . ~chenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, In'C~ 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York: 13838, ( 607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribea to the Coll~te Press S.ervice. - Bej old Tl Con till good< is app been infon mann~ Ano' by. th ployeE organ] \to et nuclea new < Lori \Frier and v ..... ,:::.::;,;~~.,;· '- ... Red F semim: additio the T:t\1 the OI grown: increa! layoff membE increa! drive 1 provah (which the c operat Utili tie whi¢h hoping back in 1980.\ The ( is used inform: on rna Genera the ca1 TMI-2. to viev plainin: March pointin; will be avoid a Capi Just TMI 0 small f shop. A announ sale~'' select c shirts ' rangin€ nuke, t, mere tl There' ash tra availab cooling key ch~

Page 2 CONOORDIENSIS~ October !, 1980 Editorial: City Opens Arms Early October on this campus is the time for the realization that we've got to get back to work, but it's also when downtown Schenectady sponsors its annual College Day, which is today, Oct. 2. Following a Union tradition, most students wUl probably ignore this just as they may be about to ignore the rest of this editorial. The downtown College Day seems to be an attempt by the merchants to offer students as much con- venience and hospitality as they can. Merchants will sponsor sidewalk sales and discounts for students with IDs. Thi-s year there will be free passes and coupons given out and entertainment. From 6 to 8 p.m. in the evening Union students will perform in front of City Hall. Jay Street will be closed and everything will be geared toward students. All ,of this can do no good, however, unless we, as students, take advantage of it. Schenectady seems to have acquired a reputation on campus that it does not entirely deserve. Although Schenectady does not have as much to offer as New York or Boston, it does have its own share. In the past year, major revitalizations have taken place in the downtown area. A new mall complex scheduled to open Oct. 15 is under construction that could possibly surpass any in the area. The mer- chants are anxious to have Union students as customers. This mall could be very beneficial to students and merchants if successful. , Although it might be hard to believe that anything special could possibly be happening to downtown State Street, that is exactly what is happening. Today, College Day '80, could be a chance to become reacquainted with the city we're all going to spend at least four years of our life in. Four years is a long time to spend locked away ignoring the community we live in. A common complaint of students is that Schenec· tady has nothing to offer. Now it seems that Schenectady is making the offer. It is up to us to do something about it. Morris the Cat: In Perspective By SVENPAUL It was a quiet Sunday evening and I was all set to settle down to a solid hour of 'Trapper John, M.D.' Just as I popped off the tab of my first Bud, I was in- formed that 'Trapper John' was being pre-empted by another one of those annoying public service programs. This one pertained to the worldwide starvation crisis. Well, with sagging hopes, I slumped into my chair for an hour of bulging bellies and half filled rice bowls. As I watched the program, I couldn't help wondering why we needed these programs in the first place. I mean, after all, we're all acutely aware of the worldwide hunger problem. We all \give at the office.\ Was it really necessary to pre-empt Gonzo to tell me something I already knew about? The first 15 minutes slipped by pretty quickly. Cameras focused on the children of Cambodia and Pakistan. Statistics were presented revealing the high mortality rate in these areas of the world. The shots were saddening but not terribly shocking. I mean, after all, we've all seen these film clips before. We know how aweful hunger really is. A commercial was coming up, so I figured I'd stroll over to the refrigerator for another beer. .Just as I was leaving the livingroom, my eyes were struck by this fuzzy whiter cat on the tube. Sure enough, it was our old friend Morris the Cat. It seems that poor Morris was still unable to find that perfect blend of tuna, liver, kidney, egg, and seafood mix to satisfy his finicky appetite. He was as yet unable to do the ''chow chow chow\ with his buddies after receiving their scrumptious meal of bite sized soft and juicy, savory chunks of real tuna. No need to fret. however. for this st<Jry had a happy ending. Much to the delight of his owner, Mrs. Jones, Morris finally found that magical can of food to satisfy his gourmet tastes. All was once again jubilant in the Jones household. Shortly after, the commercial ended, and I found myself back in the midst of an arid desert with a starving tribe of bushmen. Now, mind you, I have nothing against cats. Nor do I possess any strong objections to our capitalist economy. Morris' problem cannot be attributed to any character flaw in cats. Neither can we blame our free market system for supplying such an overabundance of tasty feline treats. After all, where there is excessive demand, supply will soon rise to meet it. I simply feel that the American consumer has misplaced his priorities. It is peculiar to note that while two thirds of the world population is suffering from some form of malnutrition or another, the American consumer can actually be so concerned with obtaining the best possible dinners for his cat. Certainly, I am not ad- vocating a starvation diet for all American house pets. However, I do feel that if Americans are so concerned with the diet of their pets, it is appropriate tl!at a much greater emphasis be placed on satisfying the basic nutritional requirements of a large majority of the world community. I do not believe many people would disagree with the statement that the preservation of a human life is of much greater importance than what typ~ of food we feed our cats. It is time to put things in perspective. We should focus our efforts on feeding the people of the world before we tackle the problem of satisfying Morris' finicky appetite. Blue Skies Over Union C. Vonkannewurff and S. Seibert here, filling in for the vacationing D. Booth. Although himself on a tenn abroad in Bath England, his spirit will nonetheless be working through us this term as \Blue Skies\ is written this term. Therefore, we claim no responsibility for what is written in this column, as we are but the servants of a power greater than ourselves. While walking past the trenches in front of Carnegie Tuesday I happened to catch a fleeting glimpse of vivacious green amid the otherwise un- captivating dullness of the earth. On closer inspection, I beheld the frightening figure of an alligator. I regained my composure on finding it but a cheap plagiarism of that worthy reptile. As I stood in con- templation of this apparition, my blood began to rise as I decided that my old and trusty friend, Carnegie Hall, through some demertatation had turned \Preppie.\ As if the alligator was not content to garnish itself upon sweaters and shirts, he was now undermining the very foundations of Union College. As I turned my back to that revered old edifice, I was sorely tempted to walk around back and see if I might spy a sweater tied around those hallowed eaves. But that would have been a blow too cmel for me to bear. I continued my walk beneath these blue skies with a awareness. No longer could I view \preppie\ as a passing fad: it had become a blight eating away at my dearest friends. Now that I have been enlightened I can see the transformation in my friends, and my perspicacious eyes can discern the early stages of this disease. Much as a boil may appear on one's body before a disease becomes obvious, so may a single article of preppie Freshmen Ten By LISA LIVSHIN Are you familiar with that phrase? It's not a singing group like the Colgate 13 and it's not an underground group of Union freshman plotting to overthrow food services. It is an old phrase that refers to poundage. The myth is that most freshman gain about ten pounds in their first year at college. There are a few reasons this might and often does happen to freshmen: A. Nerves-some people eat away their anxieties. I've seen this type. It's not drugs or alcohol or cigarettes-·i t 's Pepperidge Farm Milanos or Reeses peanut butter cups or chocolate Rolos. Usually this Type A person stands out because he or she never com- plains about the West dining hall food and actually seems to enjoy it. B 1 Ignorance-- You are C\onfined to eating in one place. You don't like what is served, so you pick out the things that do appeal to you. What can \they\ do to mashed potatoes, brand- name bread, ice cream or chocolate cake? Unfortunately, it always seems easier to ruin something with protein in it 1 Meat! l than to ruin a car· bohydrate or a starchy food. So without thinking, you feel you must eat something to get your meal plan's worth and you choose the caloric foods. Now, don't be fooled by a type B person. It's usually the one sitting next to you who seems so calorie-conscious. She'll make herself a heaping salad with vegetables I no dressing please! l and pick at it awhile, being sure not to miss any of the bread crumbs. Then she'll help herself to a heaping dish of chocolate marshmallow ice- cream 1 because she's oh-so hungry and barely had any dinner l and she'll probably return for more. This is usually the same person that brought her own bathroom scales to school. C l Time-All of a sudden, the days seem longer. That is because they are. You are up till :l a.m. cramming for an exam, typing a paper, or talking late with the students in the next suite. If it's 3 a.m., let's figure you finished with dinner at 6 p.m. Wow! It's been nine waking hours since you've eaten. Your stomach growls. Now in this situation, the average freshman will not sit down and eat cheese and crackers or fruit or even yogurt. rSorry Mom!) At 3 a.m. you can't call out for health food or go out to a salad bar. No--you call out for pizza, drive and get greasy fast food or run to the Mini-Mart and buy Freihofer's Chocolate Chip Cookies to munch out on. Soda, you always drink soda because things like Fritos and cookies make you thirsty. Maybe you consume beer. At 18 and 19, you may not get a beer belly, but you'll get the poundage in other un- desirable places on your body. Think about that next time you run to a fraternity party for all the free beer. If you have spotted yourself as a Type A, B, or C person- Watch out! The Freshman Ten does not happen to everyone and it certainly does not have to happen to you. Just try and remember two things to help you keep the ten off. 1 l Dieting is a way of life- eating styles are formed habits. It doesn't mean cutting out cookies seven days a month. 2 l Never eat because \it's there.\ Sure, mourttains were climbed and land was discovered because they were there, but weight was gained because the food was there. Think about what you put into your mouth ahead of time, and NEVER EVER eat calories you don't really want. (Even if you've been told to clean that plate! l clQthing creep into your friend's wardrobe before his mind is lost completely to the afflication. So I warn all to beware the \blazer\; it is actually a blister. Beware the alligator, it is a reptile that can overpower. Beware the gold hackle belts; double shirts and buttondowns. Beware the khakies, argyles and docksiders. All are but symptoms of a ir~anity sweeping over Union. , The time has come tlilat more women wear sport jackets than men. And so all true children of Union should beware these symptoms and take heed, lest we drown beneath a sea of reptiles. Letters Warde's. Word Worries •. To tb¢~Editor: The three statements of mine ··in your article \Nye Appeals Termination'' find themselves · arranged in a configuration, as welfas a context, which distortS • the facts in a way that is ex; .. jremely unfak to Dean • Br{)wnlee and very disturbing t<> ;me. ~ · My eommen.t about the Dean's concern t() appe~r •· decisive. .• was nat made (as the . text very unfortunately suggests} with reference to beir . original: decision to termi11ate . the position in American Stlfd,ies. It pertained spectfieally to the Dean's later· decision not to reverse het~f, even temporarily) when several members of the Educational Policy. Committee nrged her to · postj;Wne . the move until the· Comtnit:tee could get a better sense of its cfuTieular·· im- plications. This was ' 1 the advice that the Dean did not take,\ out of concern, I believe, that to do scr would have given the ap- pearance of administrative indecision in the matter. Anton Warde 'GoOd Stuff' No Good To the Editor · A question has arisen in the last few days linking the 1100 of. • tampons to a rare disease~ toxiu : shock syndrome~ Be~ause :aely • • tatnpon was distributed through·. • the ''Good Stuff KitH to all . female students-' opening day . · this fall, we wanted to make · women at Uniqn aware of tbis situation and to enc()urage you to NOT USE THE RELY . TAMPON. Security and the .• Health Service bav{l been in~ formed and instructed on how to respond in case of .an emergency. If you would hke further information you may call: Center for m~ease Con· trol: 4()4.;329...:1311 or Proctor and Gamble: l..SOO..M3.0480. Residence Lift;~ Office • • concor01en&16 Editors-in-Chief Jim Davis, Julie Isgro News Editor Joe Maguire, Gale Vanore Features Editors Judi Chervenak, Fred Fender Arts Editor Bob Fox Photo Editor Ricb Sher Sports Editors Bill Curtin, Rich Hope Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowtcz Sports Photo Editor Rac~~t~. C~~:~:l Layout Editor Business Manager Larry Leavitt Subscriptions Editor Ellen Burger Calendar Editor Maria Manfredonia CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, $chenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susque~anna Publications, In'c.) 11 Division Street, Sidney, New Yor~ 1,3838, (607) 563-7151. Entered m the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDmNSIS subscri~ to the Collegj,ate Press Service. i i f ; ~ \ i· i f ; ;, l - ~ .. 1 tj Be ole T Conti1 good is ap1 been infor maru Am by tl ploye, organ \to e nucle: new Lori \Frie and 1 Red I semin: additi< the Tr the 0 grown increa layoff memb increa drive pro val (whid the opera· Utili tiE which hoping back il 1980.\ The is use< inform on rn~ Generi the ca TMI-2. to vie1 plainin March pointin wiH bE avoid: Cap Just TMI c small shop. J annour sale.\ select, shirts rangin1 nuke, j mere ti There ash tr1 availal cooling key ch

.CONOORD11!lN818, October 8., l980 Page 8 New Sororities Invited By JOE MAGUIRE Michael Andol.iria, Assistant. to the Dean of Students, in response to requests from undergraduate women, has invited three National sororities to consider forming chapters at Union College. 111 Andolina said Monday that ~ the sororities contacted were w Delta Delta Delta, Kappa Kappa Gamma, and Kappa -; Delta. All three are interested ~· and each plans to send a -5 representative here the week of . ~ November 17th. Andolina said he hopes \at least one\ of the sororities charters a Union · ~ chapter, and added that there is if \room for two\. He later clarified this remark, saying >- ,.C Beth Baumgarten relaxes in SOT living room. SDT is the oldest sorority on ca.mpus. Three Mi.le Island • • • Continued from page 1 good deal of information, but it is appar:_ent that great care has been taken in presenting the information in- a positive manner. Aunother Bieasure vvas taken by . the families ()f TMl em- ployees when they formed an organization four months ago \to educate the public about nuclear power and TMI.\ This new organization, headed by Lori Dubiel, is known as \Friemls and Family of TMI\ and will ·hold programs and the counter the proprietor has left a- sign-in notebook with no less than 20,000 signatures in it, placed there by visitors to the store. Looking through the notebook, it appears that all of the 50 states are-represented and countries such as Norway, England and France are also included along with many others. The T.M.I.Inn A short drive from the .·,~ \A House with a View\ One concern of residents is the potential drop in housing values on homes in the area of the TMI Generating Station. In fact, I recently read an article in the June edition of The Progressive titled, \We Can't Sell Our House\ (the article tells of a family unaple to sell a home \four-and-a-half miles from TMI\). At the Observation- Center there was another ar- ticle, though, claiming that the Red Farm has continued to do business despite its rather unseemly location at Harrisburg seminars Qn nuclear power in addition to sponsoring tours of the TMI plant. Membership in the organization, which has grown to over 250, is expected to increase in response to the layoff of 500 employees and members will welcome the increase as. they begin their drive to gairi' .government ap- provals needed to place TMI-1 (which was not paroaged during the accident) back into operation. Genral Public Utilities Corporation (GPU), which operates the plant; is hoping that TMI -1 will be placed back in operation ''by the end of 1980.\ The Observat on Center itself is used as a clearinghouse for information (mostly favorable) on many aspects of the TMI Generating Station, including the causes of the accident in TMT-2. Visitors are encouraged to view a 15 minute film ex- plaining the steps leading to the March 28, 1979 accident and pointing out the measures that will be taken in the future to avoid any similar accident. CapitaUsm Thrives at TMl Just down the road from the TMI Observation Center is a small florist, turned souveneir shop. A large sign in front of it announces, \TMI Tashirts for .. sale~'; Inside, the visitor may select one of many different T- shirts with varying messages ranging from extremely pro- nuke, to positively against the mere thought of nuclear power. There are also TMI postcards, ash trays, coin 'holders {both available in the shape of a cooling tower), hot plates, · and key chains, to name a few. On souveneir shop, perhaps five minutes away, is the T.M.I. Inn, a restaurant-lounge (not con- nected with the TMI Nuclear Generating Station). The dinner menu presents a map on its front covel', with concentric circles indicating the radiation doses received by individuals residing at various distances from the TMI complex during the accident (the T .M.I. Inn falls directly on the 10 millirem circle). On the back is a \Three Mile Island Unit Two Schematic,\ the same as the one displayed at the TMI Observation Center. Inside the menu one can select from categories such .as \Cold Shutdowns,\ \Three: Mile Highs,\ ''Turbines,\ and_ \Meltdowns among others. Refreshments are listed under the terms \Coolants\ (for cold drinks) and \Steam\ (for hot drinks) ; dessert is called a \Secondary Loop.\ I chose a \Reactor Vessel\ described as \Roasted beef in a thick sauce . .. \(later I got a stomach ache from it). There wre many patrons inside the lounge, most more interested in the football game shown on a large screen in the back, than they were about Three Mile Island or the dangers presented by it. A few heads turned when I .offered to purchase the menu for a souveneir of my visit; the waiter and I agreed on a price of 75 cents (I could have pi'Obably got it for less if I tried, but it all worked out in the end since the waiter forgot, or perhaps decided not to, include the price of the menu on the check), and he informed me that paper copies (mine is laminated) would be on sale soon. initial drop in real estate values was only temporary, and that \there has been no overall adverse effect . . .\ on real estate values or the \marketing time for properties sold.\ I did not personally get a chance to substantiate either claim, but did find a home located across Route 441 from the main gate of the TMI .Generating Station with a sold sign in front of it. Directly in front of this home the four cooling towers can be seen conspicuously (in fact, they appear from the front as almost part of the property). This was not my greatest surprise though; on the other side of the towers (still on Route 441) is a fram with a roadside market, selling a. variety of farm goods, and it's doing a pretty good business! It is difficult to make any single conclusion from these , two observations. Perhaps the new program to lessen the fear has had some effect; maybe now that the Kenieny and Rogovin Reports have been released, residents have been satisfied; then still, maybe residents have simply accepted their predicament. (Some in- dividuc;lls, not predisposed to support nuclear power, would add that the fact that the TMI Generating Station is shot down may have encouraged the residents.) But the best way to find out is probably to visit the TMI site, and to speak with residents in the area as an addition to reading the material available, on the accident and its effects. For myself, I can say the visit has been quite rewarding. there was room within the campus Greek structure for two more sororities, but that housing for the chapters is \a problem . . . but not in- surmotmta ble\. The assistant dean has been talking with Union women about sororities for several terms,. and said he has ''been working on this all year\. Dave Wood, Director of Housing and Residence Life, has been kept .informed &f :the sorority situation. Andolina does not feel that Wood will need to worry about this for a while, due to the length of time required before a charter is granted, and the need for a chapter house arises. Anthony Klocken brink, president of the Inter- Fraternity Council (IFC) feels there may not be a problem finding housing for a SOf()rity. Within the next few years, he said, it is \very possible\ that several fraternities \aren't going to be able to survive\. When a chapter dissolves, the building it had occupied becomes available to other Greek Chapters. The two sororities which exist now at Union, Sigma Delta Tau and Delta Gamma, are sup- portive of the project, according to Andolina, who says that although ther..e are sororities, there is no sorority 'system' at Union. Linda McAllister, a member of SDT, confirms that her chapter's role has been and wiH continue to be supportive, but she is concerned that publicity about the recent sorority development might hurt SDT's fall rush program. Andolina's proposed exposition dates of Nov. 17-22 follow the formal sorority rush period by one week, eliminating much of this competition. STUDENT HOSTS NEEDED Hosting a prospective freshman not only performs an important service for the College, but is al'so a great time with fu.ture Union students. If you live. on campus and are interested in becoming a host or would like more information concerning the program, please contact one of the following program co-ordinators: Male Student Program: Dave Battaglia or Fred Fenter at 370-6665. Female Student Program: Ann Palumbo or Lori Branagh at 370-67 46. ·EARTHLY DEilGH1S Natural Foods and more Live string band music Thursday night! 162 Jay St. 372-7580 iJque. IID9 3\aJ' sf . Handmade Jewelry- Imported Clothing -Plus- A Full line of Pipes, Papers & Accessories The Origr UNI8BXI~9 BARReTT STREET Styli . Salon 464 State St. we deliver SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 12305 Schenectady 374-1888 •

l ! l l 1! CONOOBDIENSIS, October S, 1980 Page 3 New Sororities Invited Beth Baumgarten relaxes in SDT living room. SDT is the oldest sorority on campus. By JOE MAGUIRE Michael Andolina, Assistant to the Dean of Students, in response to requests from undergraduate women, has invited three National sororities to consider forming chapters at Union College. VI Andolina said Monday that c: the sororities contacted were ,:,t. w Delta Delta DeUa, Kappa Kappa Gamma, and Kappa ' Delta. All three are interested ~ and each plans to send a -5 representative here the week of ~ November 17th. AndoHna said >- he hopes \at least one\ of the .c sororities charters a Union ~ chapter, and added that there is ..r.: \room fo,r t we\. He later a. clarified this remark, saying Three Mile Island • • • Contioued from .page 1 good deal of information, but it is apparent that great care has been taken in presenting the information in a positive manner. Another measure was taken by the families of TMI em- ployees when they formed an organization four months ago \to educate the public about nuclear power and TMI.\ This new orgaNization, headed by Lori Dubiel, is known as \Friends and Family of TMI\ and will hold programs and the counter the proprietor has Ie~t a sign-in notebook with no less than 20,000 signatures in it, placed there by visitors to the store. Looking through the notebook, it appears that all of the 50 states are- represented and countries such as Norway, England and France are also included along with many others. The T.M.I. Inn A short drive from the .=-- ••.• \A House with a View\ One concern of residents is the potential drop in housing values on homes in the area of the TMI Generating Station. In fact, I recently read an article in the June edition of The Progressive titled, \We Can't Sell Our House\ (the article tells of a family unable to sell a home \four-and-a-half miles from TMI\). At the Observation Center there was another ar- ticle, though, claiming that the (!) +- c tO E lll tO ... I Q c: * ro l \'0 E lll f1l ,_ Q - <( \'0 >- ,_ f1l .c :;:: -.-,., ____ ·:- _, ... ' 0 \'0 -•\'\\- - UJ •?,;..~-~\- 0 ~4>-'fj' ..r.: .., a. Red Farm has continued to do business despite its rather unseemly location at Harrisburg seminars on nuclear power in addition to sponsoring tours of the TMI plant. Membership in the or-ganization, which has grown to over 250, is expected to increase in response to the layoff of 500 employees and members will welcome the increase as they begin their drive to gain government ap- provals needed to place TMI-1 (which was not pamaged during the accident) back into operation. Genral Public Utilities Corporation (GPU), which operates the plant, is hoping that TMI-1 will be placed back in operation \by the end of 1980_\ The Observat on Center itself is used as a clearinghouse for information (mostly favorable) on many aspects of the TMI Generating Station, including the causes of the accident in TMI-2. Visitors are encouraged to view a 15 minute film ex- plaining the steps leading to the March 28, 1979 accident and pointing out the measures that wiH be taken in the future to avoid any similar accident. Capitalism Thrives at TMI Just down the road from the TMI Observation Center is a small florist, turned souveneir shop. A large sign in front of it announces, \T£.11 T-shirts for sale.\ Inside, the visitor may select one of many different T- shirts with varying messages ranging from extremely pro- nuke, to positively against the mere thought of nuclear power. Ther-e are also TMI postcards, ash trays, coin holders (both available in the shape of a cooling tower), hot plates, and key chains, to name a few. On souveneir shop, perhaps five minutes away, is the T.M.I. Inn, a restaurant-lounge (not con- nected with the TMI Nuclear Generating Station). The dinner menu presents a map on its front cover, with concentric circles indicating the radiation doses received by individuals residing at various distances from the TMI complex: during the accident (the T.M.I. Inn falls directly on the 10 millirem circle). On the back is a \Three Mile Island Unit Two Schematic,\ the same as the one displayed at the TMI Observation Center. Inside the menu one can select from categories such as \Cold Shutdowns,\ \Three Mile Highs,\ \Turbines and \Meltdowns among others. Refreshments are listed under the terms \Coolants\ (for cold drinks) and \Steam\ (for hot drinks); dessert is called a \Secondary Loop.\ I chose a \Reactor Vessel\ described as \Roasted beef in a thick sauce . .. \ (later, I got a stomach ache from it). There wre many patrons inside the lounge, most more interested in the football game shown on a large screen in the back, than they were about Three Mile Island or the dangers presented by it. A few heads turned when I offered to purchase the menu for a souveneir of my visit; the waiter and I agreed on a price of 75 cents (I could have probably got it for less if I tried, but it all worked out in the end since the waiter forgot, or perhaps decided not to, include the price of the menu on the check), and he informed me that paper copies (mine is laminated) would be on sale soon. initial drop in real estate values was only temporary, and that \there has been no overall adverse effect . . . \ on real estate values or the \marketing time for properties sold.\ I did not personally get a chance to substantiate either claim, but did find a home located across Route 441 from the main gate of the TMI Generating Station with a sold sign in front of it. Directly in front of this home the four cooling towers can be seen conspicuously (in fact, they appear from the front as almost part of the property). This was not my greatest surprise though; on the other side of the towers (still on Route 441) is a fram with a roadside market, selling a variety of farm goods, and it's doing a pretty good business! It is difficult to make any single conclusion from these two observations. Perhaps the new program to lessen the fear has had some effect; maybe now that the Kenieny and Rogovin Reports have been released, residents have been satisfied; then still, maybe residents have simply accepted their predicament. (Some in- dividuals, not predisposed to support nuclear power, would add that the fact that the TMI Generating Station is shot down may have encouraged the residents.) But the best way to find out is probably to visit the TMI site, and to speak with residents in the area as an addition to reading the material available, on the accident and its effects. For myself, I can say the visit has been quite rewarding. • \'' ~ 'I ...... ··-~ •• ~-. - . .. ·.' ,. ' . ... ' .. ~ . . . .. \' ~ . . ' there was room within the campus Greek structure for two more sororities, but that housing for the chapters is ''a problem . . . but not in- surmountable''. The assistant dean has been talking with Union wamen about sororities for several terms, and said he has \been working on this all year\. Dave Wood, Director of Housing and Residence Life, has been kept informed of the sorority situation. Andolina does not feel that Wood will need to worry about this for a while, due to the length of time required before a charter is granted, and the need for a chapter house arises. Anthony Klockenbrink, president of the Inter- Fraternity Council (IFC) feels there may not be a problem finding hausing for a sorority. Within the next few years, he said, it is \very possible\ that several fraternities \aren't going to be able to survive\. When a chapter dissolves, the building it had occupied becomes available to other Greek Chapters. The two sororities which exist now at Union, Sigma Delta Tau and Delta Gamma, are sup-- portive of the project, according to Andolina, wh0 says that although there are sororities, there is no sorority 'system' at Union. Linda McAllister, a member of SDT, confirms that her chapter's role has been and will continue to be supportive, but she is concerned that publicity about the recent sorority development might hurt SOT's fall rush program. Andolina's proposed exposition dates of Nov. 17-22 follow the formal sorority rush period by one week, eliminating much of this competition. STUDENT HOSTS NEEDED Hosting a prospective freshman not only performs an important service for the College, but is also a great time with future Union students. If you live on campus and are interested in becoming a host or would like more information concerning the program, please contact one of the following program co-ordinators: Male Student Program: Dave Battaglia or Fred Fenter at 370-6665. Female Student Program: Ann Palumbo or Lori Branagh at 370-6746. EARIHLY DEIJGHTS Natural Foods and more Live string band music Thursday night! 162 Jay St. 372-7580 {Jqu~ '\9 ~a_ysf Handmade Jewelry- Imported Clothing - Plus- A Full Line of Pipes, Papers & Accessories The Origina UNI8BXI59 BARRtTT STREET Styling Salon 464 State St. we deliver SCHENECTAOY.N. Y. 12305 Schenectady 374-1888

Page 4 Five persor:~ suite .forces a bed to be put in the middle of the room Freshmen 'Suite Talking' By MIKE GOLDABER This summer many Fresh· men living in Fox and Davidson Houses learned that they would be housed in temporary five- person suites. This year,. aside from the usual five-man suites, we have for the first time 13 five-woman suites. The Fresh- men liVing in these suites-both men and women-have definite views concerning their living. situation and have welcomed a chance to discuss them. along.\ Other students were not as pleased with the situation. Several sighted that the cramped living quarters merely served to compound the problems facing a freshman during those first hectic days of Orientation. Meeting: Open But Empty It is well known that there is a shortage of housing at Union. Dave Wood,. Director of the Residence Life Office, recognizes this fact and is working to· alleviate the present situation. A possible long term solution to the problem would , involve the building of a new dormitory. For the present, however, it is only as soon as housing vacancies occur (through natural attrition, etc.) that the freshmen in five-person suites w:ill have the option of converting to the standard four- person suites. Two reasons affecting this year's housing shortage cited by Mr. Wood include a decrease in the relative nwnber of commuting students, and a substantial increase in the number of sophomore women who chose to return to on campus housing (95 percent this year as opposed to 65 percent last year). This in- creased demand for on-campus housing created the need for many of the five-person suites. As a rule, Freshman five- person suites are created as the nee<! arises. This explains the fact that some Freshmen who were assigned to five-person suites were at least lucky enough to reside in a corner suite (which is somewhat larger than the other suites). Susan Rosenberg was disappointed when she heard that she would be living in a five-person suite. She realized that \there was nothing they could do.\ Upon arrival she was partially · comforted by the fact that the suite was a comer suite, and thus some problems . were alleviated. Still the women are sharing dra wspace and closets and it is still a bit cramped. By JOE MAGUIRE The Union College Student Forwn, composed of fifteen undergraduates, held its first open meeting Monday night at 7:30 in Strauss Lounge. All interested students and faculty had been invited to attend the meeting. which was planned with a question and answer period on the agenda. Sixteen people were at the meeting. Dave O'Connor. Student F orwn President, reflected on the meeting the next day. He was \still optimistic'' despite the poor showing. He cited the fact that there was very little business before the forwn at this early date, as one cause for the lack of interest. In his opening remarks. the president mentioned \getting some business before the forum\ as one of the preliminary goals for the year. Among the business that took place which O'Connor feels may have been in interest to the student body is the student trustee's report of the summer meeting of the Board of Trustees. Senior Trustee Ed Longergan and Junior Trustee Will Lloyd both commented briefly on the re-designing of Daley Field. A new athletic facility has been proposed and construction is expected to commence at the end of the varsity football season. An eight lane, all-weather track is part of the plan. The infield of the track is to be artificial turf. Projected cost of the the project was not mentioned at the meeting. Finance Vice President Jim Fishers report. which was the last substantial action of the Forum meeting on Monday night, concerned the student activities busget and the budget cut whcih he has conceived of, whcih was announced to the campus the following day. Tuesday night at 7:30,, the forum conducted a meeting with the presidents of all on- campus clubs and the chairman of all campus committees. The purpose was to discuss the proposed 5 to 10 percent budget cut. The cut would effect all groups equally. Also on the agenda of the Tuesday meeting was a discussion of a new procedure for allocation of funds from the Student Activities Budget. At Monday's meeting Fisher commented that he \expects to get a lot of gruff about this.\ Tuesday's meeting proved him correct. After the ex- planation of the new procedure and some comments by President O'Connor several of the club presidents offered some objections to Fisher's new procedures. Fisher, the Chairman of the Taxation Committee, fielded most of the questions com- petently and. pointed out to the • objectors that the cuts would affect all groups equally, and that was the fairest way to do it. Dave O'Connor made a plea to the club officers to try to save money and to use the new system as it was designed to be used. The new system will go into effect Monday, Oct. 6, and after that, warned O'Connor, \don't break the rules.\ After the meeting Brian Sorentino, a member of the Pre- Health Society, gave some impressions of the new system. \That ten percent is pretty rough.\ Fisher was \ irked\ by the students reactions, doubting that they had \any com- prehension of the kind of money they're talking about.\ Sorentino may have summed it up best when saying that the final judgement of the new accounting system will have to wait, ''until we het well into the year.\ BOOKS Gl FTS CARDS All of the freshmen residing in these suites are coping with the situation. When asked about their feelings concerning their housing arrangements, responses ranged from \it sucks\ to \it's really not so bad.\ Jennifer Shaw, related that when she heard that she was in a five-person suite, she \definitely did not want to be the fifth person.\ But, after the five women moved in (three in one bedroom, two in the other) it all seemed to work out. All five are getting along and as Jennifer puts it, ''Everyone works harder to be close. We are all working together.\ Other students are also adap- ting to the situation without too many complaints. Peter Schulman notes that it is \not that crowded. The guys I live with are alright.\ Bruce Tallman, one of his suitemaJ;es echoed the same sentiments adding that \everybody gets -136 Jay Street Downtown Schenectady--- 3•Ul·271~ A common complaint con- cerning these suites lies in the fact that it is very difficult to get any privacy when there are· so many people assigned to one room. In some cases one or two of the suitemates do not get along with the others, which could also lead to problems. Although five-person suites are not the cause of personal dif- ficulties, many see the. crowded conditions as merely worsening the situation. When asked about plans for keeping the suite together should housing vacancies occur, many freshmen were un- decided. The freshmen in some suites are getting along very well and as of now have no in- tentions of \breaking up the suite.\ Others are anxiously awaiting for a new room opening so that they can get out of their present situation. _ Surprisingly, aside from the obvious disadvantages of the five-person suite, some students have found some positive aspects: Reduced monthly phone charges and a cheaper refrigerator bill were cited, as was the opportunity for the people involved to become very close. As the close living situation brings people together, · one freshman remarked that they (referring to the five-person suite next door) \were thinking of knocking down the wall and making a ten-person suite ! \ Dutch Hollow Pub Friday Night, October 3 \Buffet Night\ 5-7:30 p.m: ITALIAN NIGHT Tossed Salad Egg Plant Parmagiana Garlic Bread Meatless Lasagna Linguini w-Ciam sauce Italian Sausage AU you can eat for only $4o_OO Carafes of wine for $1.50 Thursday Special: SO~RS NITE $1 .00 Friday Night Entertainment 9:00 - 1:00 a.m. Kevin Mackrell Saturday II Beef and Brew\ 5-7:30 p.m. Coming soon \Jeremiah We~d Night'' Don't Forget to \Hit the Pub \ I ( Th the l rece1 with Merr Profl an no Wil.S Club Vicki Th Hunt of th doWil the f late Colle. used chaiJ oper~ \T. N \W sounc stron there the f said. the F Thi mere arc with sounc new l insta audit Facil \Mic1 beh01 to pr spea~ lectm In probl1 one of was r for r' don't probl1 Fur cost in instal the Depa1 raisec chaq De taf ph ye: ga1 inc pn an Th she . en1 .

OONOORDIJJJNSIS~ October B~ 1980 Page 5 Chimes To~ Be Restored The Schenectady chapter of the Union College Alumni Club recently presented the College with $200 for restoration of the Menieorial Chapel chimes, Professor C. William Huntley announced. The presentation WilS made by $979-80 Alumni Club co-presidents E. Gray and Vicki Watkins of Alplaus. The money, Professor Huntley said, will become part of the chimes restoration en- dowment fund established by the family and friends of the late Dale Timberlake, former College comptroller, and will be used to ·refurbish the system of chains and pulleys which operate the chimes. \This gift from our Schenectady Alumni continues a tradition of local interest in the Chapel that began with its construction in 1925,'' Professor Huntley said. The Chapel, designed to harmonize with the College's French-inspired architecture of Joseph Jacques Ramee, was financed by the College and the citizens of Schenectady as a memorial to Union men who died in World War I. The chimes; part of a unique, manually operated system which includes a clock, were installed soon after. Today, the thirteen-toned bells, which ring the familiar Westminster chimes on the quarter hour, are played on . special College occasjons by New Film Facilities By SCOTT ADAMS \With the new projection and sound system, combined with a strong film schedule, I believe there will be a good response to the films shown on campus,\ said John Strang, Chairman of the Film Committee. This summer, two com- mercial quality, high intensity arc 16mm projectors, along with an amplifier and a new sound system complete with new speakers and wtring were installed in the SS016 auditorium. Diane Winkler, Facilities Coordinator, said, \Microphones and stands can be hooked into the sound system to provide _a PA system for speakers, panel discussions and lectures.\ In the first week of . use, a problem was discovered with one of the new projectors, which was returned to the distributor for repairs. Said Winkler, \I don't expect anymore problems.\ Funding for the new facilities, costing roughly $_~,900 including installation, was provided by the Projestion Facilities Department. The department raised the money through f~ charged to the various departments and committees using the equipment. Non- curricular committees, such as the Film Committee, pay $6 per hour for use of the projectors, while departments must pay $5 per hour for curricular use. Highlights for the fall term include 10, Breaking Away, Kramer Vs. Kramer, The Fog and Superman. People with suggestions for movies shoUld voice them to any of the twenty Film Committee members; committee members can be found working at the movies. According to Strang, the Film Committee hopes to have an X- rated film in the winter term \Because we don't have one for this term.\ With admission costing 75 cents on Wednesdays and . $1.25 on Fridays through Sundays, Strang feels a big question for next term is whether or not to raise the price. \We hope these im- provements will bring about an increase in the attendance to the wide selection of movies that will be shown in SS016 this year .( by Film Committee, ... Minerva and others), and we hope that others will take ad- vantage of its PA as well,\ concluded Winkler. DEWITIS Restaurant & Taproom 118 Jay St. FINE FOOD FAST SERVICE LOW PRICES BREAKFAST- LUNCH DINNER Daily Specials~ Open Mon. - Sat. Closed Sun. Tel. - 382-8608 Do you 'want to be excited? Do you want to have your breath taken away? Can you handle being ·dazzled by skill and physical prowess? If the answer to all of these questions is yes, then you belong at this Saturday's Ultimate Frisbee game. The Union College Crispy Critters will 'begin to make incredible diving catches, and score amazing goals at ap- proximately 12:00, and will continue until 3:00. The Critters are going to battle against the Albany State and RP I teams. This event will take place on Daley Field beneath the shadow of the Nott Memorial. The Critters wish to invite the .. entire college community down to watch and cheer us on. Union alumnus Peter K. Smith, a Gloversville attorney. Last year, Smith began teaching his skill to Union students so that the chimes ma,y be heard more often. To help maintain the chimes and the Chapel clock, Professor Huntley also announced, Union has appointed Smiley Lumpkin of Scotia a~ College horologist. In addition to being responsible for the Chapel chimes, Lumpkin will set and care for all clocks on campus, Huntley said. Chimes a,t Union's Memorial Chapel wiH soon undergo restoration. . Socialized Medicine By L YNNEGREENBERG This past ·summer, Union's Term A:bvoad Program en- countered some scheduling difficulty. The original program was to compare health-care systems in the United States, :England, Sweden, and Poland. However, due to political ten- sions, the trip to· Poland was cancelled. Throughout the summer the group monitored stories about the workers riots taking place in <5dansk, Poland. \I had some anxiety about Poland before the program even began,'' remembers Professor Gado. As the time came closer for the students to leave for Poland the problems became worse. Through conversations among Professor and Mrs. Gado, Professor William Thomas, head of the terms abroad, and Union College President John Morris, it was decided that the scheduled week in Poland would be cancelhid. This decision was made three days before the group was to leave for Gdansk. Professor Gado explained the reasons for the cancellation. ''I was concerned-about a number of things if we were to continue to Gdansk. There would have been a potential danger to American students. We were worried about breakdowns in travel. We had \word of food shortages. Most importantly, I was concerned about the state of mind of the parents in the United States. Since. the program in Poland was only one week and the students' three courses could be complete without Poland, our decision was to cancel.\ \Everyone was looking forward to Poland. When we found out we weren't going we were all disappointed,'' said one student. Regardless of the school's decision, three students, Stu Cartright '81, Joe Cardany '81 and Mike Beckenstein '82, decided to go on to Poland. According to Stu, \I definitely was not worried a-bout something happening to me. In fact, I wanted to see some ex- citement! '' The <Jn.ly visible signs they saw of the political problems in Poland were uniformed troops in East Germany. \It was scary to see kids our age aU ready to go to war,\ said Stu. Stu, Joe and Mike traveled to East Germany, East Berlin, Warsaw, Cracow and Zakopane. Throughout their travels, they found people very anxious to trade them for their American and Swedish curf'ency. A cab driver in Warsaw who was unwilling to drive ,the students became very anxious when he saw an American one dollar bill. Stu, Mike and Joe were able to eat cheaply in expensive restaurants using their popular American currency. In Poland, they visited Zakopane, a small tourist town\ in the mountains. Here they found life normal, without signs of political unrest. In Cracow they saw the cultural center of Poland. Here they were told that train lines were down from Cracow ro Warsaw, supposedly due to the strikes. Hungry Students Know • • • The Best Place To Go ---~~---~-------------T---~------------------ 1 $1 .00 off Pitcher l · , $1 .00 off : of Beer with I : '-k~a Purchose of 1 Pan Pizza 1814 State St., 346-3104 183 Nott Terr., 346-4005 : ~Ut any Pizza I I I 1814 State St, 346-2104 183 Nott Terr. 346-4005 Offer not valid with any other coupoR special. or 1 I I I I Offer not valid with any other coupon or special. One coupon per party per visit. Coupon Value#l-20cent One coupon per party per visit. Coupon Value 1-20cent -----~----~----~-~---~~---------------------- 1st General Meeting of Union College's Homecoming Available in AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL 1980 The Alumni Union College o.ffice worldwide .. human rights lamont House movement Only 3.50 Thurs., Oct. 2, 10:00 Conference Room\ A\ All Sizes (3rd floor Carnegie) SHIRTS All are urged to attend!

Page 6 OONOOBDIBNSIS,- October 8, 1980 culture The Kinks: Dave Davies Solo Album Carolyn Odell Coffeehouse Presents Carolyn Odell Carolyn Odelf is a delightful performer-vocally warm and expressive and a remarkably fine mstrwnentali.st. Accom- panying herself on guitar and banjo, she c<nnbines the elements of f()lk, blues, ragtime, and jazz into a distinctive blend of traditional and contemporary music. The Union College Coffeehouse is proud to present her to the Union community Friday, October 3 at 8:30 p.m. in the Caberet Room of Carnegie Hall. See you there! .By BOB FOX Some years age, almost twenty >in fact, a young English band was just getting its feet on the ground. Just this summer that same band, the Kinks, released a live album which sent thenL to the top of the charts, a place they have been. several times since their first big hit, \You Really Got Me,\ in 1964. Also this sununer, a founding member of the Kinks, Dave Davies, came out with a solo albwn. In many cases, .to call an album a solo effort is inap- propriate. In this case however, the word solo should be taken literally. Dave Davies wrote, composed, arranged and produced all the songs on the album. He did aU the vocals, guitars, and keyboards himself, and he even played drwns and bass on all but four tracks. The result of Davies' undertaking is AFLl-3603. (The title and the album cover come across as enjoyable, biting sarcasm.) The fact remains that Dave Davies has been a member of the Kinks for almost twenty years. This solo albwn is not an attempt to break away from the band with with he has gr~wn so much; rather it is an extension of the Kinks. The hits flowed thick and fast for the Kinks in the mid sixties, their success riding largely on the talent and energy of Ray and Dave Davies. Although Dave's presence has always been vital to the Kinks, until this solo album he has been in the shadow of his older brother Ray. Ray's songwriting and per- forming genius is indisputable, but so is his brother's steady climb towards a solo album. Dave's guitar playing un- 3 TO GET STAllED FOILIFE FTEI COLLEGE. f ·!tmfcwt.t! ycHII\ c·ulleu•· lle\JI·ee and !Jt~t u belt.t~r star·t throuyh Anny HO fC Get '''·\kHJt!nlt~nt u·allliiHJ St!lf th~t:Jplrne A sense ot confidence E<wn the extra credent1alb t I•.;L \''It \et yuu dpa1·t a c. a ,·es]JUnbJLlle ach1eve1· You'll also rece1ve $2500 over your l.t ·' I'\' 1 y~ar·,; \'the Atfvc~ncP.u ROTC Program Whether your career plans are CIVilian 'II' lllrlltdry Al·my HllTC ;wnvuiP.S opprwtunltleS for both actiVe duty With a s'tartJnq \\ldl y nt Llvt'r $1 <-' [)( JO nr ncserve \'erv1ce while emptoyerl \' the CiVIlian r.ommur11ty lit-!t hi drteli tor hte atte1· cnlleye Get 5tart eel m Army ROTC THE EAILY- 51111. It Yll<• drt: d Vf::LtJrdn or a Jun\ w FiO TC 9''aduate. then vo,r ,,1 drr.t~d eclrly probably w'1tllllul. r£:Jiinng 1l That early ~tdrt n 1<1k e~ v ou C!Ulomat1cally f\I\Jilrle to ente1· tile AdvaJ:lced Pr·o•lrdm THE START. Start Army ROTC durmg your freshman ·or sophomore year With no m1htary ~:~bhga t1on You'll f1nd a number of ways to get' started m a currrculum that's excrt1hg, and fle~rble enough to meet your class schedule and · academrc needs CAll: 783-2536 THE IISIC START. Get started 1n Army ROTC through Basrc Camp at Fort Knox. KenLucky, th1s summer You'll get $500 tor attendmg a challenging srx·week camp If your performance is exceptional. you tust may qualify for a two-year scholar· ship as you enter the Advanced Program derwent a conversion from raw power to sheet brilliance during this, the second decade of the Kinks existence. His flashy and imaginative guitar work oil \Schoolboys in Disgrace,\ which came out in 1975, firmly established Dave's own brand of genius. \Sleepwalker\ (1977), one of the more com- mercially successful of the Kink's albums, is bursting with the sound of Dave Davies' guitar and his eager, high pitched voice. \Low Budget\ unleashed more of the brutal power the Kinks· displayed in their earlier years, but it didn't )ack any of the Davies brothers' creative flair. During a conc~rt, as any Kink's fan will testify, or as you can hear for yourself on \One For The Road,'' Ray comes across as the dominating factor. However, under close exan'lination, Dave appears equally important. Without either one of the brothers, the Kinks would not be the Kinks. The music on .AFLI-3603 is strongly Kinks-influenced, but so what? Dave is a Kink. All the instruments, especially the guitars, are played with the feverish enthusiasm that Kink's fans have come to expect from Dave. AFU-3603 speaks out on topics the Kinks ~ave covered before. Dave reveals a little about himself by intensify~g the subjects he deals with. It isn't hard to realize his frustration and dislike for politics: \We're so proud of our intellect, arrogant selfish fools who can look no further thari a bunch of separate rules. Well if we're so clever and technology- rules, why is it we're so scared?\ We can put the blame wherever we want, but \the world is ruled by science and money.\ However, Davies does acknowledge hope: \there will . be a bright tommortow, the world is 1n our hands.\ As is often the case, love songs have a big place on this album. However, classifying a song as a love song doesn't make it any less of a rocker in Dave Davies' mind. The last cq.t on the album should raise a few questions in the minds of Kinks fans: \I've got to run, find a place of my own, somewhere where I belong, somewhere where I can grow.\ As for myself, I expect to see much more from the Kinks, and another solo album from Dave would be great: The first is a definite, the second is only a hope. AFLl-3603 is no chart buster, but it sure would be a tough act to follow. If you want to be ... involved in Parent's Weekend May 2 & 3, see Mrs. Marra in Student Activities as soon ~ as possible. Anyone interested in working on the crew of Union movie, contact - Brian Marks at 370-6662 or the Office of College Resources Noft Uncom-fortable·? • By DEMETRA PONTISAKOS Nott anymore!. Thanks to President J ohri Morris, the Nott_ Memorial Theatre, which houses the Qnion College Department ol --.the Arts' dramatic productions, has been refurnished with new chairs which .are quite attractive, and \' which are much m re comfortable than the folding chairs previously in use. President Morris, impressed with the past theatrical ac- complishments of the Union Arts Department, has also allocated funds for the purchase of a new sound system as well' as new curtains for use in the theater. The students and professors directly involved wfth Union Theater consider these gifts a complement and a result of their continuing dedication to, hard work in, and care for the theater. On behalf of the whole Union community and the outside community which supports Union Theater, we would like to take this op- portunity to warmly thank President Morris for his kind thoughtfulness. · i---_ Stanfo·rd MBA~- REPRESENTATIVE COMING TO CAMPUS FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10 A representative of the Stanford Graduate School of Business will be on campus to discuss with interested students the exceptional educational opportunity of the Stanford MBA Program. Appointments may be made through The Placement and Career Counseling Office The Stanford MBA Program ·is ·a two-year general management course of studies designed for men and women who wish to dev.elop management skills to meet the 'broad responsibilities required in both the private and public sectors today and in the .future. GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS STAN FORD UNIVERSI\f.Y Stanford, California 94305 Ca By GIL Last Th great one tisakos. It Mike Zant either. Ho1 to underst; Cuozzo w Cabaret v pants half by a belt dangling f1 The firsj ficial Cab season w tisakos. w~ it worth 1 Anyonewh sing knows is-warm, Through t Simon, E Eagles, ail name se' Zep1 FutL B3 Tragedy Zeppelin. J( Bonham, drummer f1 band, suffe1 after the , Zeppelin's : was found' by bassist , the London guitarist Ji News I De a WhenEus youngster, country of o interest in d he develo ( UNI GR Come t1 and Ph about tt and ca followin Health, Fina,nce Marketi General Accoun1 1 'Contact Si· rL-up

OONOORDIENBIB~ October B. 1980 Page 7 culture Cabaret Season Opens By GILLE ANN RABBIN Last Thursday night was a great one for Qemetra Pon- tisakos. It wasn't. too bad for Mike Zanta and Steve Koelbel, either. However, I'm still trying to understand why Emcee Dan Cuozzo was running around Cabaret with his bright red pants half unzippered, held up by a belt With a calculator dangling from it. .;!>''' The first act of the first of- ficial Cabaret of the 1980-81 season was Demetra Pon- tisakos. Wow-she almost made it worth returning to Union. Anyone who's ever heard Deme sing knows how lovely her voice is-warm, sweet, and colorful. Through the songs of Carly Simon, Bette Midler, The Eagles, and James Taylor, to name several, she evoked memories many of us thought had not lingered. And of course no performance of Deme's would have been complete without her bizarre tale of \The Mion and the Louse\. Keep it up, Deme, we want more! The second act of last Thursdey's Ca·baret consisted of Mike Zanta and Steve Koelbel. Mike played the guitar and sang; Steve accompanied him. Their performaace started off delightfully mellow--a welcome respite after the highly energetic performance of Deme Poliltisakos and the frenzied antics of Dan Cuozzo. Mike started off timidly with a song by Dan Fogelberg, but by the second song had gained greater confidence and kept that level for the rest of his performance. One of the best parts of this Cabaret was the Zeppelin Drummer Dies; Future Uncertain By BOB FOX Tragedy has struck Led Zeppelin. John Bonham is dead Bonham, the· 32 year old drummer for the heavy metal ban.d, suffered from exhaustion after the completion of Led Zeppelin's European tour. He was found dead last Thursday by bassist John Paul Jones at the London home of Zeppelin guitarist Jimmy Page. At the News From Smythe: time of this writing, no cause of death had been determined. It is questionable whether Led Zeppelin will continue to record and perform the way the Who continued after the loss of Keith Moon. . It is certain that Zeppelin's upcoming North American tour is canceled. Bonham is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. audience participation during this -act. Everyone sang and some even had the courage to get up and dance. · What can I say about E~ncee Dan Cuozzo? Dan did a great job of getting us in the mood for what turned out to be a really fun Cabaret. There were a few times, however, when I wished that the Fiji brothers who barraged Dan with peanuts throughout his performance would have thrown a few valiums instead. All in aU, last Thursday's Cabaret was truly entertaining and fun. If this was a sample of Cabarets to come, we're in for a pretty good year. Cabaret may not replace television, movies, and 'live theater, but it's definitely a good time if you've got a Thursday night without anything to do. Artists on Art Art Resources Open to Women (ARROW) announces its annual Fall series of Visiting Artists. Prominent artists will show slides and· address questions reguarding their work, the world .of. con- temporary art, and their riSe to success within it. On Thursday, Oct. 9, Louisa Chase will be at Union in Carnegie Hall at 7: 30 p.in. It has been written of her work that \rarely has there been such a close marriage of serious artistic invention with mechanistic - or subliminal gaming.\ Marlo Thomas will speak this Monday Mai-lo Thomas to Speak at Union Marlo Thomas--actress, Dead Celebrity Craze -writer, producer, and women's rights advocate-will speak here this coming Monday, October 6. Sponsored by the Union College Speakers' Forum, her talk will begin at 8:30p.m. in Memorial Chapel. later starred in the film version, and she is currently working on a movie entitled \Million Dollar Baby.\ When Eustas P. Smythe was a youngster, crossing this great country of ours, he acquired an interest in dead people. In fact, he developed a case of necrophelia. Not only did he enjoy relations'with the dead, he was further stimulated by masquerading himself as a dead celebrity. Just as Smythe Coffeehouse presents Carolyn· ,Odell Fri., Oct. 3 8:30 p.m. Cabaret Room Carnegie UNIVERSITY OF C,HICAGO GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS M.B.A. All Majors and Fields invited. Come to our meetings to hear about our MBA and PhD Programs and to ask any questions about the curriculum, admissions, financial aid and career opportunities available in the following- fields of management: Health Administration Public· and NonProfit Finance Hurnan Resources Marketing Economics General Management Management Science Accounting Policy Thursday, October 9 ~~~ntact Placement & Career Counseling for ign,..ups_,, spread herpes across America, this practice of dressing up as one's favorite dead celebrity swept the nation. General admission is $1.50, and tickets will be available at the door. Thomas is calling her presentation at Union \Free to Be You and Me,\ which is the title of an award-winning children's television special she conceived and produced. Her other television work, in ad- dition to the popular \That Girl,\ includes developing and producing the special \Acts of Love and Other Comedies\ and producing \It Happened One Christmas,'' in which she afso starred. Thomas has appeared on Broadway in \Thieves\ and Can~'g A supporter of the Equal Rights Amendment, Thomas has traveled around the country speaking on behalf of its passage. She is a member of the advisory board of the National Women's Political Caucus and is honorary head of an American W.omen in Radio and Television project which provides programs for hospitalized children. She is also a member of the board of directors of St. Jude's HospitaL Thomas has received the American Civil Liberties Union's Thomas Paine Award, the \Woman of the Year\ award from the YWCA, and an American Library Citation \in recognition of her contributions to educating Americans about libraries and literacy.'' Mon.-Thur. 10 am-12 pm Fri & Sat Sunday noon-11 pm SOc Delivery charge ~estauhant & Pi.zzeria Full menu 4 pm-closing 140 F.reemans,Brldge Road Scotia, Now York 346-147.1 341H474 Eat- in or Take ·.out . r-----.;.._ ..... ____ ~--------._ __ ' I Carm's 1 Restaurant : & 1 Pizzeria I SOc Off any item Expires 11-31

Page 8 Committee Openings Applications for the followi~g conunittees will be available at Student Activities beginning Thursday, October 2: 1. The Concert Committee (3 vacancies)-a group of students who plan and arrange campus concerts. This includes hiring a band, setting up, selling tickets and working at the concert. 2. Elections Committee .(2 vacandes)•-they establish voting rules and procedures for the various student elections. 3. Film Committee ( 4 , vacancies)--this committee provides films for campus Tuesdays, Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. 4. Social Committee (3 vacancies)-they are respon- sible .for planning social events for students such as Nightclub, Winter Carnival, Camp Union and Dances. 5. Speakers Forum (2 vacancies )--they select and sponsor nationally prominent speakers for the Union College community. 6. Traffic and Pet Court (7 vacancies)-this committee is set up to run as an appeals court which consists of seven students. The Court has the power to decrease or dismiss fines which a student questions and brings to the court for a hearing. Biology Club Boston Trip The Biology Clt~.b is spon- soring a field trip to Boston on Saturday, October 11th. We will be visiting the following places: The Museum of Science: set on the Charles River, this museum has exhibits on all aspects of science. The New England Aquarium: ' OONO@BDIBNSIB~ OctQber B~ 1.980 roun · ampus- · with its extensive collection of years experience in tne design Dudley Observatory in in 1981 for research in fish and aquatic animals from of health maintenance systems. Schenectady, where the course chemistry, engineering, and both New England and the He suggests that persons taking will be held. Classes will meet mathematics, and in the earth, world. Also present is a dolphin medication or under the care of from 7:30' to 9:30p.m. on eight environmental, physical, space, show. a physician check with their Thursdays, and tuition is $65. and life sciences. Most of . the Quincy Market: a restored doctor before trying biofeed- For more information about programs are open to both U.S. colonial market with many back techniques. the course, contact the Union and non-U.S. nationals, and to specialty shops and eating Enrollment in the workshop is College Graduate Studies and both recent Ph.D.s and senior places. limited. To register, or for more Continuing Education office, investigators. Our bus leaves at 7 a.m. from information, contact the Union Wells House (telephone 370- Applications to the Research behind the Old Gym 1near the College Graduate Studies and 6288). Council must be postmarked no tennis courts) and will 'return <.::ontinuing Education offige, p. . f Do f . . I later than Jan. 15, 1981. Awards about 9 p.m. Donuts and coffee Wells House, (telephone 370- OS c ora will be announced in April. will be provided for breakfast, 6288). A free brochure descibing ·p Information on specific b~ing a bag lunch, and din~er . the COffiJ?lete .fall non-credit rog ra:m 5 research oppor.tuilities and will be at one of the many fme prog,ram 1s avatlable. federal laboratories, as well as restaurants in Quincy Market. The National Research applit!'ation materials, may be The cost will be only $12.00 Astrono,my for Council announced Its 1981 obtainedfromtheAssociateship which includes transportation Research Associateship Office, JH 610-Dl, 2101 Con- andadmissiontotheAquarium Novices Programs for postdoctoral stitution Avenue, N.W., (where else can you go to work in the sciences to be Washington, D.C. 20418, (202) Boston for so little: What happens in the heavens conducted in 16 federal 389->6554. Greyhound's fare is ove.r is intriguing, yet mysterious, to research institutions with $40.00). most of us, But occasionally an laboratories located throughout If interested, .please see Dr. important astronomical event the United States. The Butterstein in S-309 or call 6422. will be widely discussed-such programs provide postdoctoral Last date to sign up is Wed- as the discovery of a super scientists and engineers of nesday, October 8th. cluster of galaxies which raises unusual promise and ability B ·lofe·ed···back some questions about the \Big- with opportunities for research Bang\ theory of the creation 'Of on problems largely of their the universe. • own choosing yet compatible Works 11 op In a non-credit course entitled with the research interests of \Frontiers in Astronomy,\ the supporting laboratory. Stress has become an ac- cepted part of modern life, yet it need not affect us adversely. A one-day, non-credit workshop entitled \Preparing for Stress Using Biofeedback and Relaxation\ is designed to teach individuals how to recognize stress and deal with it more effectively. The workshop will be held from 8:45 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday, Nov. 1, and the cost is $55. Schenectady psychologist Len Ochs will conduct the program. During the first half of the ~orkshop, biofeedback equipment will be used to clarify low-level stress responses. The afternoon session will. be devoted to developing and testing personal relaxation programs. Ochs, . who is in private practice in Schenectady, has 15 beginning Oct. 23, current Initiated in 1954, the astronomical events and Associateship Programs have discoveries will be discussed in enhanced the career a way that persons with no development of over 3500 previous study in astronomy scientists ranging from recent can understand. Ph.D.s to distinguished senior The instructor will- be A. G. scientists. \· Dabis Philip, a research Four-hundred or more full- '· professor of physics at Union time Associateships will be and an astronomer at the awarded on a competitive basis -We've Been Downtown Serving Union Students & Faculty Since.1912 Corner of State & Erie Blvd. - 377-1515 Old \State\ Arcade Scholarship Competition College and university students may win up to $1,000 in Scholarship Awards by coming up with an original and prac- tical idea based on the use of polystrene foam. The Fourth Annual EPS Scholarship Awards Competition, sponsored by the Expanded Polystyrene Division of The Society of the Plastics Industry, .challenges inventive minds to design workable, worthwhile new products using expanded polystyrene as an important element. In the 1980 competition, the $1,000 top award went to a Southern Massachusetts University junior for her con- cept of EFS molded board as artist's canvas. A design for an expanded polystyrene masthead float for catamarans (sailboats with twin hulls) earned a MacMurray College senior the $200 Scholarship Award. Have You Been Dreaming of Having 4 Barber/Stylists to perform our Limited Time Special: A brochure describing the contest requirements, and including a preliminary entry form, is available from the Dean's offic.e or by writing to: An Easy To Handle Haircut? ~~ REMO'S ~~~\ t::'\ISEX SAL~N H ;>..L-A Penwna II zed HaIr Design fof Men &. Women ~ \fl Priva-te Booths For Appointment call ....,._ .......... J 374-7035 · 140 Clinton St., (Just off State St.) Sch'i:mectady Plenty of Parking Stop & See Us ... we will make your dreams come true! Corduroy/ Pants 2 Styles: jean and trouser Many colors to choose from. Cfo off with this ad -DOWNTOWN- State at Jay WET CUT & BLOW DRY only $6.00 The Society of the Plastics Industry, 3150 Des Plaines Avenue, Des Plaines, 1.. 60018. The competition will be judged during the Expanded Polystyrene Division Annual Conference March 5. 1981. ,• Fa.mous Maker Radio Sale! % 1 5 off reqular prices Our entire stock of dock radios, 8 track portables, mini-cassette recor- ders and pocket radios by Magnavox, Caprice, General El~ctric and Sony. Limited Quantities. Appliances, Too DOWNTOWNSCHEN~CTADY ./ - BULLE Anyon~ an Acrt should : Tuesday 202 of tl perience All Physical in the T1 Rink. Y<J physical your pro located i upphysi< The .fir: College l called to evening. Borer, J founders, Consume discussec in emba then wa~ which ,., cerned w for the ~ speaker~ cupation1; intereste< 9:00, Sw Floor We lmagin of fine an 8, 9·5 p.n Prices fm $3.00 eac most sml $1.75 eacl When Union's c will have this Frid<i Magazine room ren -#**= * * * * * * * .X. ***=

I '1',' CONOORDIBNSIS, October t, 1980 Page9 classifieDs Anyone interested in forming an Acrobatic Dance Troupe should attend a meeting on Tuesday, Oct. 7 at 3:30 in Rm. 202 of the Arts Bldg. No ex- perience necessary. AU Winter Athletes-- Physicals are Oct. 5, 7:30p.m. in the Training Room, Achilles Rink. You must receive a pre- physical before Oct. 5. Contact your prospective coaches now, located in Alumn Gym. Make- up physical is Oct. 12, 7:30 p.m. The first meeting of the Union College Embalming Club was called to order at 9:03 Sunday evening. The speaker, Edward Borer, Jr., one of the club's founders, read from Funerals: Consumers Last Rights and discussed the process involved in embalming. The meeting then was opened to questions · which were primarily con- cerned with the club's agenda for the year. Field trips and. speakers from related oc- cupations are planned. For all interested, the dub meets at 9:00, Sundays, in the Third Floor West Lounge. Imaginus Exhibition and Sale . of fine art reproductions, Oct. 7- . 8, 9·5 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Prices for most large prints are · $3.00 each or 3 for $7.00. For most small prints, prices are $1.75 each or 3 for $4.50. / ------------------- When Diplomacy Fails, Union's own wargaming club, will have its general meeting this Friday, October 3 at 8 p.m. Magazine and game purchases, room renovations and the INS will be discussed. Our room is on the top floor of Carnegie, next to the Jazz Ensemble, and 'is open Tuesday, Friday and Sat.urday nights. Interested in playing Diplomacy? When Diplomacy ·Fails is looking for a few low- down, dirty, backstabbing sewn to play in our campus-wide Diplomacy tournament. Come to aur meeting Friday night, or . leave a note (or WDF, Box 2519. There will be a Garnet meeting today (Oct.- 2) in the Student Activities office at 5:00. · We have to decide on a theme. Please attend. The following law school representatives will visit Union for the purpose of talking with interested students. They will be available in the Placement Office. Wed., Oct. 15, 1-3 p.m.- Dorothy Ummans, Pace University Law School. Wed., Oct. 22, 9•11 a.m.- McGeorge · School of Law, University of the Pacific, Sacramento. Fri., Oct. 31, 10 a.m.-12:30 p.m.--Leslie Peat, Vermont Law School. Mon., Nov. 10, 1-4 p.m.-Dean James Milligan, Columbia University Law School (Small group meetings in 30-minute units; students should sign up in advance at Placement Office.) An ad hoc committee has been convened to determine the tenurability of Professor Judith Gingsberg of the Department of Modern Languages. All students, faculty and others who wish to contribute to this evaluation are urged to communicate with any member of the Committee: Prof. Bruce Reynolds, Prof. Ruth .Steven- son, Prof. William Thomas or Prof. Twitty J. Styles, Chair- man. There will be a Dance Club 1 !\feeting tonight, Oct. 2, at 7 p.m. in the Women's Con• ference Room, 2nd floor Car- negie. All those interested in any form of dance and its possibilities at Unian please come. If you have any questions about the Dance Club call Michele, 6710. The Game Room is now open. It is on 3rd floor Carnegie, across from WRUC. This year the equipment will be With the Grant, who is situateci_in the ·Carnegie Lobby, at the top of the front steps. Come in, shoot pool, play ping-.pong, and shortly, indulge in ,pinball. German Language Table-We will meet again every Thursday from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. in the Pub to eat lunch and converse in German. Each and every one who speaks German or wants to learn to speak German, please join us. Every level of speaking and listening ability is ap- preciated and welcome! An ad hoc conunittee is evaluating the tenurability of Professor David G. Hannay of the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department. Anyone having relevant in- formation regarding Professor Hannay should contact Professor W.C. Aubrey, Steinmetz Hall~ Room 218D, sa that the information can be brought to the attention of the committee. AMERICA'S OLDEST SKI SHOP 121 NO. BROADWAY, DOWNTOWN, SCHENECTADY VISA\ Tues. - Thurs. Eves. SKI SHOP Rossignol, Olin, Dynamic, Nordica, Hanson, Salomon, C. B., Roffe, White Stag, Gerry RUNNING SHOES Adidas, Nike, Brooks, Etonic, New Balance, Bauer, Converse HOCKEY CCM, Bauer, Micron, Cooper, Koho, Northland TENNIS Headr Yamaha, Wilson, Prince, Bancroft Goldstock 1 s, A Complete Sporting Goods Store Scuba, Firearms, Ca mpingr Team & League Outfitters -#******* Gift Certificate. ********~ : Goldstock 1 s * * * : 10% ·OFF ~~~·e : * * * Union Students Only * .x. Expires Nov. 15, 1980 * ************************; ·. u.c. * Howard Goldstock, Class of '53 GotdslOCKS AMERICA'S OLDEST !;KJ SHOP 121 NO. BROADWAY, DOWNTOWN, SCHENECfADY Nott Terr. Broadway Erie . The Protestant Fellowship at Union College meets for wor- ship each Sunday evening at 6:30p.m. in the Strauss Lounge. We welcome your participation. Achilles Rink officially opened Friday, Sept. 26, at 8:30 p.m. for Public Skating. Full- time Union College Students- Your ID Card will admit you {ree of charge to use the following General Open Skating Hours: Monday thru Friday, 1-3 p.m. Catholic Celebration of Word and ·Eucharist-Rev. Richard Alban, associate pastor of . Corpus Christi and team associate for diocesan workshops on second by Miss Lydia. References rendered by the Park Avenue Estates. Will wax floors, iron clothes and scrub tubs. Fine recommendaUons from the Agency. Babar, Thanks for the memory. Kisses, Paddington. Bob, someday you'll un- derstand. Deme aad Judi. Kelly--While I'm Typing personals, I love you; you're the absolute best. Thanks for so ,much. Dems. Bart, Two weekends?? Szot! HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! Gail--Happy 19th Birthday!- Gale marriages, will preside. Sun- . day, Oct. 5, 7:30 p.m.,. Strauss . Lounge, Carnegie Hall. Bambi: Don't use them-- The following companies will , · : you'll die. be on-campus: Rochester Telephone, Oct. 16. Bambi: Why do you think Sign-up 10-2, 10:30 a.m. Elec- they call them RELY? trical Engineers. · IBM E di tt 0 t 20 s· · Yeah, but TOM-Didn't you . • 0 co - c · · Ign• use to have blonde hair??? up 10-3, 10:30 a.m. EE's, M.E., c.s. Harris Corp., Bin~ery Div., Oct. 29 .. Sign-up 10,6, 2:30 p.m. EE's, ME's, CS, Indus. Eng., BA-BS Bus. Admin. Check office for further Information. IBM-WHITE PLAINS, Oct. 28. Sign-up 10-6, 9:30 a.m. Any Major for Programming. IBM-Poughkeepsie, Nov. 5. Sign-up 10-14, 1: 15 p.m. Math, cs. PERSONALs--• Domestic services available Nancy: Here, a personal for you even though you're abroad. Hope you're having a good time. I miss ya lots Deme. LOST & FOUND-• Lost-1 exposed roll of color • film at Sat. Football game near Union's bench. If found, . PLEASE contact Dwight at 372- 7656. r ~ Area Calendar ARTS October 2-The Junior College of Albany will present a Cof- feehouse featuring poet and songwriter, Peter Alsop. This Coffeehouse will be held at 11 a.m. at the Albany Campus Center. For more information, call 270-2344. FESTIVAL October 4- The Schenectady YWCK will present ''A Black Celebration of Life\ a festival of music, fashion, the arts, cuisine, and dancing. The festival will be held at the YWCA from 2 to 8 p.m. on Washington Avenue, Schenectady. FILM \.. October 6- The fijm \Gone with the Wind,\ starring Clark Gable and Vivien Leigh will be presented at Russell Sage College at 7 p.m .. For more information, call 270-2344. TOUR October 4--The Hudson- Mohawk Industrial Gateway is sponsoring a walking tour of downtown Troy. The tour will begin at 1 p.m. in front of Troy City Hall at Monument Square. For more information, call 274- 5267. October 7-- The Hudson·· Mohawk Industrial Gateway is sponsoring a tour of , the- Adirondack Steel Casting Company. The tour will begin at 2:30 p.m. at the main plant entrance at the parking lot area. For reservations, call 274· 5267. Now Serving Beer & Wine ...F\PU/J FEINKOST Be KON DITOREI Hagen -Dazs Ice Cream Tel. (518) 346-7012 10:30 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. 175 Jay Street Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 Ingrid Forst, owner Welcome Union Students Forever Young Hair Design 741 Eastern Avenue (short walk from College) 382 .. 8490 Specialist in Precis loll Cuts for Women & Men Henna, Perms, Frost, Color Reasonable Rates Open Tues-Sat--F lexibl.e Hours Call Now For Your- Fall Style! Many To Ctloose From!

Page 10 OONOOBDIENBIB# October S,. 1980 6port Coach Bob Magee: Years· of Success By .JIM McGHEE with sports, however, was not going to end with college. He Bob Magee drives llh hours wanted to teach what he had every morning frorn his home in learned and performed since Massachusetts to Union childhood. College. His dedication to For ten years, Magee worked athletics and to his players at at a YMCA at Portsmith, until Union is reflected in a premier he landed a job coaching eight year soccer record of 57 baseball and soccer at New wins, 32losses and 2 ties. He has Rochelle, N.Y. High School. also coached successful Magee worked at several high swimming teams at Union. schools before coming to Union. Coach Magee was born in Some include Kingsley Hall, Watertown, Conn., where he where he was assistant head- lived with his parents and one master; Berkshire Cowitry Day sister. Magee began playing School; and Pittsfield Day organized basketball, baseball School. In 1972, Magee came to and track during grade school. Union and since then has His soccer career did not get compiled an impressive list of under way until high scbool, achievements. Magee had \because tllere was much less immediate results: coaching Throughout Magee's career~ he has enjoyed a happy and prosperous family life. Magee has five children, three.of whom have graduated from college; Laurie, a sophomore at Union College; and his yoWigest son, studying at Berkshire Prep School. Bob Magee's wife teaches the first grade in Pitt- sfield, Mass. >- interest then.\ Upon the Union Soccer team to Magee's hobbies include ~ antiquing furniture. The c Magees' home was built in the 8 1790s and is furnished :with early E 19th century antiques; there is {:. plenty of work Within his own house. He also spends time ~ gardening at home. Magees' 2 hobbies receive little time _g during the demanding schedule a. of the soccer season. Coach Bob Magee graduation, Magee went to runner-up in the ECAC in 1974 Springfield where he was and winning the ECAC'sin 1975. Magee takes one game at a captain of the freshman He also sent Union's first time, and he is looking forward basketball team. After his representative team for the to the game Wednesday against freshman year, however, he NCAA championships in 1978. Hamilton which knocked Union had to serve in the Navy for two These have also been two All- out of a bid last year. The years before going back to American representatives in · highest goal of a coach has to be Springfield. Once Ma,gee Magee's career, Craig Jeffries winning the NCAA cham- returned, he was interested in and John Kovaks; and many pionship and Magee cited, \In leading Springfield in winning all-state players, including the next few years, we will be two national championships in Keith Miller and Doug thought of as a major contender 1947 and 1948. Magee's success Crawford of the 1979 team. in the NCAA.\ Pro RoundbaU Roundup By RICH BlEGEN averaged 5 steals a game. They the value of a center m the NBA, will be well supported by Mike the Bucks hovered at .500 tintil Basketball after its two Glenn and rookie Reggie \the trade.\ They finished 204l, month break, 'is back, with the Carter. The fabled two-headed won the Midwest Division and usual personnel changes and cente~, Bill Cartwright and took the (then) w~rld champion hopes for gold in the 23 arenas Marvm Webster (\Doctor Seattle Supersomcs to seven around the country. Yes 23 last Webster\ and \Mr. Bill\ to the ·games despite heavy injuries. year's 22 plus Dallas. This 'year uninitiated), is easily in the top The trade was simply Kent the league will be minus the two five in the league. The starting Benson and a munber one to best white passers of the last ten forwards (would you believe acquire Bob Lani~r, long one of years, Rick Barry and Pete C~~PY Russell and Sly the ~est players m the league. Maravich. (Only in basketball Willi~s?), ~long with Lar~y Havu~g a. playe~ of such are players classified by race.) Dem1c and M1ke Woodson, will magmtude m the middle opened They will be missed. And so prevent the Knicks. from up room for marvelous without further ado here are my greatness. Another inconsistent Marques Johnson, and long- 1980-81 NBA guaranteed (for year in the Garden, they should range bomber Brian Winters. inaccuracy) selections: beat some teams by 40 points With the mighty Quinn Buckner and lose some just as badly on leading the attack, and sub· their way to the playoffs. stitute swingmen Junior New Jersey: Before the June Bridgeman and Sidney Mon· Atlantic Division 25th draft, Net G.M. Charlie crief coming off the bench the Theokas said he needed \a Bucks should take 50-55 easily. small forward, a center and a The only weakness (which will point guard,\ and in that order kill them against the power- he got them: Mike O'Koren, laden East Conference playoff Mike Gminski and Foots teams) is their lack of a power Walker. But don't expect forward. miracles. Unless they sign Tim To be continued. OT· . . MVP Time By DAVE RUDEN The 1980 baseball season is quickly winding down and it will soon be time for the sport- swriters to sit down and vote on the many various awards they hand out to baseball's elite. The most controversial award is usually that given to the Most Valuable Player (MVP). As the lobbying for votes goes on, it is now time to study the award and this year's candidates more carefully. The leading names tossed into the derby with two weeks left in the season are: George Brett, Reggie Jackson, Steve Stone, Rich Gossage, Mike Norris, and Willie Wilson. Chances are very good that this year's·winner will come from this list. But how many of these men really deserve the award? Who is the MOST Valuable Player in the American League? The MVP award should be given to the athlete who is the most valuable in the league; that is, if you were to take this man out of the lineup would the team continue to do as well as they had been? Usually the award goes to members of winning teams. Therefore, Mike Norris and Steve Stone (if Baltimore does not win the division) are less likely to win the award. Judging from this season's performances my three top candidates are: George Brett, Willie Wilson, and Rich (Goose) Gossage. Here are my arguments: George Brett: When he is in the lineup the Royals are a devestating team. Without him they are hard-pressed to play .500 ball. His on base per- centage and RBI's per at bat totals are exceptional. His batting average speaks for itself. Willie Wilson: He is the Royals catalyst, when he is on the team is on. Most Royal rallies are started. with this man getting a· hit or drawing a walk. His speed and base stealing abilities are invaluable. Underrated is Wilson's. ability - to stretch a single into a double. Philadelphia: The 76ers are deeper now than they were when they sat Lloyd Free on the bench. The backcourt is the deepest in basketball: Maurice Cheeks, revitalized Doug Collins and llis rel~abilitated knee, Lionel Hollins, rookie Andrew Toney, and Clint Richardson. Henry Bibby does not make this team! Up front, the twin towers, Daryl Dawkins and Caldwell Jones, literally dominate teams (playoffs vs. Celtics) and Julius Erving is the best in the business at the position. Subs at forward are B<>bby Jones, Steve Mix and rookie gem, Earl Cureton. Bassett (who doesn't belong in the league anyway) rookie Gminski is the only center. And with O'Koren starting, either Cliff Robinson or Maurice Lucas will have to sit, which could make for tension. The Tennis At 1-2 Rich Gossage: The best relief man in baseball. In the 32 games he has come on to save a lead he has saved 30, won 1, and lost 1. His mere presence on the mound seems to ignite the team. Without him the Yankees would probably be in second place. Reggie Jackson: Has not come through during the last month and a half, despite a torrid summer. Boston: Still a great team, but Larry Bird alone won't be good enough this year, and where are the guards? Frontline is awesome, though. Red Auer~ bach spent the summer preventing a repeat of last year's debacle with 76ers and came up with riches: Robert Parish and rookie Kevin McHale should complement Dave Cowens, Rick Robey, Bird, Cornbread Maxwell and M.L. Carr. Eut with Maravich retired, and Tiny Archibald in a holdout pattern, would you believe Gerald Henderson and Chris Ford are the starting, guards? The Celtics should be pressed for second place. Knicks: The best backcourt in the east and a stellar pair of centers are cursed with a collection of immature bodies and castoffs at forward. Michael Ray Richardson and Ray Williams led the league in transition last year and guards are solid, except that of Walker, Mike Newlin and Fast Eddie Jordan, only Mike Newlin can shoot and there is no beneh. The bodies are there, but the Nets will lose to any team that brings a center to Piscataway. Washington: The guards can't shoot, the forwards don't play defense and the center can't breathe, but the Bullets are back to defend their string of 12 consecutive years of making the playoffs. Kevin Grevey, Larry Wright, Kevin Porter and .John Williamson are aging, inaccurate and inadequate. Greg Ballard and Elvin Hayes are solid at for- ward but Bobby Dandridge won't sit on the bench, and he's no bargain starting either. Wes Unseld can't run, can't jump, and doesn't play offense in the second half, but he's still one of the league's best rebounders at 6'7\. But barring a miracle or the collapse of a New Yorsey team, the streak will end. Central Oivision Milwaukee: A classic case of By GINA PERSICO Opening the season with a 1·1 record, the Union College Women's Tennis Team is well on its way to winning the 50 percent of the games it has set its goal for. The first match, played against Russell Sage; brought the team its first vic· tory. A suspenseful three match set was won by junior Pam Viglielmo, a top three player and newcomer to the team. Middlebury was the next team that our women tennis players found themselves up against; although there were a few victories, including one by top three freshman Rita Lin- denberg, the Union team was defeated, 6-3. The .. Women's Tennis Team lost to Hamilton College in a close match on September 29, 4-3. Coach Bob Driscoll is pleased with the performance of his team members. He feels, as a whole, that the team is much better than any team Union has had in the past. \The girls have much more· ability.\ he remarks. With ·three out of the six singles players being fresh- men, Driscoll foresees a strong team in the future, as well as now. Occupying the number one spot is freshman Julie Miller, who Driscoll says has \tremendous potential and unique qualities.\ Overall, Driscoll says the girls are an \enjoyable group to work with.\ He finds them to be very receptive and always \open minded to suggestions.\ According to team · member Stacy Ruchlamer, the team is very close-knit and enjoys being coached by Driscoll. \He takes us seriously and works us hard,\ she explains, \he is very dedicated .. \ Although Driscoll says a \good year\ would be winning 50 percent of the matches, he still feels that with the ex- ception of a few teams like Colgate, Skidmore, and Mid- dlebury, beating the others is not a remote goal. In fact, with the promise seen in so many of his players, he sees it very much as a reality. Steve Stone: Excellent job, but he too has not been as im- pressive, the past month, as he had been during the rest of the season. Mike Norris : Little publicity, but an overpowering pitcher. .Along with Len Barker (Cleveland) the most un- derrated pitcher in .the league. Here are my awards for the American League this season: MVP: George Brett Cy Young: Rich Gossage Rookie of the Year: Joe Charboneau Most Underrated Player: Rick Cerone Manager of the Year: Billy Martin SPORTS Photographers N.eeded Contact Tom Conway 377-9042 George 'iteeper frc led the I two vict01 their recc performaJ week, R cordi ens is George Chi Frate puter Sci~ So far tl posted tw matches. Romas· he team and superb, sh allowing c Cortland. performa11 was most match Uni going and fense the 1 but in the never left but Roma poise and Coach lV Wom Sf By I Accordin1 articles, th come and g, truly dedic< on the co Union, WI stronger th team begaz was part-til who show welcomed warm welc the coach, l timeand cu reduce the didates to team. Driscoll, 1 in 1978, say, proved eve1 continue to 1 the increasi athletes an( Driscoll fee more dedic1 push hard to they possibl~ three years scared awa• with hard · last year, an year, practi strenuous we of the pla Driscoll al having the cc time has incoming stt 9-24 Ur 9-26 Ur 9-27 Ur 9-29 Ur 9-23 Un 9-24 M.i 9-29 Ha 9·23 Uni 15. ' 9-20 U' Am hers chberg 9-29 Sie1

- OONOOBDIEN818, OctobeT S, 1980 Page 11 I 6port Athlete of the W eCk George Romas, a junior goal 'teeeper £rom Massapequa, N.Y., ted the Dutchman Booters to two victories this week raising their record to 3~. Due to his performance in the goal this week, Romas is the Con~ cordiensis Athlete-of-the-Week. George is a brother at Sigma Chi Fraternity and is a Com- puter Science major. So far this season Romas has posted two shut outs in three matches. In the season opener Romas· held off a weak Siena team and last week he played superb, shuting out Army while allowing only one goal versus Cortland. It was Roma's's performance against Anny that was most impressive. In that match Union scored early in the going and provided some of- fense the rest of the first half, but in the second half the ball never left the Dutchman end,. but Romas held on showing poise and confidence. . Coach Magee is very .happy Woman's Tennis: with Romas's performance. \George has gained great maturity this season com- manding respect from his teammates who are confident of his play; With this team con- fidence in the keeper the players a11e allowed to· execute their own playing styles on the field without Worrying about Romas.\ '''Against Army George calmed things down and dominated the play even though the Dutchman Booters were ineffective in dearing the ball. More importantly,'' gleans Magee, \even though Romas was under ·heavy attack from Army he never seemeq in doubt.\ Earlier in the week Romas led the Boote1::s to ·a 4-1 win over nationally ranked Cortland State. Romas~was excellent in collecting the numerous high shots that Cortland got off. The only State goal was scored when the sun blocked Romas's view forcing him to fumble the ball to a Cortland player who booted it in. Romas was hurt on the play but finished the match in fine form. Romas stepped into the starting position this year after Doug Crawford graduated last year. CraWford holds all the goalie records at Union with six shutouts in a season and thir· teen career shutouts. Romas .saw limited action behind Crawford, the All New York State goalie, but he seems to have learned welLSurely, so far this season Romas has demonstllated that he is the backbone of the Dutchman squad. Romas is one of five juniors on a ·squad with only two seniors. This young squad now has confidence in Romas and this is a healthy situation as it allows the younger players to develop :their skills without worrying about the .. goalie. George felt surprised as well as honored by being chosen as Stronger Than Ever By LINDA SHER him, and allowing hiin th~ opportunity to scout out talent in the new class. · competition, and have- formed interpersonal relationships with her teammates. The short season includes eleven matches,. five at home and six away. Realistically, the team has a chance of winning six or seven matches. Presently the team stands 1-2, with a win over Russell Sage and losses to Russell Sage and Middlebury. The next home match will he October 13 against Vassar College, at which time the team will only have three matches left in its competition. 1 Soccer goalie George Romas athlete .of the week. \It was a good week for the team,\ says Romas. I had a lot of help on defense from Andy Dreher and John Krum blocking the middle and preventing dangerous shots,\ stated a modest Romas. As Romas turned and ran to practice he simply stated \I just hope we keep winning and receive an NCAA playoff berth.\ SPORTS HAPPENINGS Oct. 2 to Oct. 9 Varsity Football Varsity Soccer JV Soccer Field Hock~y Women's Tennis Cross Country Volleyball Golf Oct. 4 at Colby 1:30 Oct. 4 vs. Binghamton 2:00 Oct. 8 vs. Albany 3:30 Oct. 8 vs. Albany 3:30 Oct.·Jvs.SmithA& B3·:30 Oct. 8 at Oneonta A & B 3:30 Oct. 4 at R P I 11 : 00 Oct. 8 at Oneonta 3:30 Oct. 4 Trinity, Williams atTrinity 1:00 Oct. 6 vs. Plattsburgh, LeMoyne 7:00 Oct. 9 vs. Williams, North Adams 7:00 Oct. 4 vs. Williams According to many sports-· articles, the tennis craze has come and gone, leaving only the truly dedicated to sweat it out on the courts. However, at Union, women's tennis is stronger than ever. When the· team began in 1974 the coach was part-time and any woman who showed interest was welcomed into the club. The warm welcome remains, but the coach, Bob Driscoll, is full time and cuts must be made to reduce the number of can- didates to a fourteen person team. Driscoll, who came to Union in 1978, says the team has im- proved every year and should continue to do so. He attributes the increasing strength to the athletes and to the program. Driscoll feels the women are more dedicated and willing to push hard to be the best players they possibly can. He noted that three years ago he wotdd have scared away potential players with hard exercise, whereas last year, and even more so this year, practice has become a strenuous work-out (which most of the players do enjoy). Driscoll also believes that having the coach on campus full time has benefits, enabling incoming students to meet with Indicating the changes he has encountered in forming the past three teams, Driscoll reported that the first year he accepted all thirteen women who went out .for the club; last year he had to choose fourteen players from twenty-three candidates, and this year from twenty-nine. Driscoll stated that the caliber of tennis the women play has improved each year, as many have high school experit'lnce. This evidences in the make-up of the team which includes only two seniors: Shelly Eckstein and Debby Hofflich; three juniors: Randi Ribakove, Linda Sher, and Pam Viglielino; four sophmores: Jayme Fagas, Karen Gebhardt, Nancy Jud- son, and Stacy Ruchlamer; and five freshmen: Jean Bradley, Rita Lindenberg, Pam Marcus, Julie Miller, and Dabra Seikere. Field Hockey Undefeated The philosophy held by Driscoll, that it is not so much wins and losses, but rather that each and every woman strive to play the best game she possibly .. can, attracts many players. Concerned that each player reach her full potential by the season's end, Driscoll believes that each woman will be in better shape, play a better game, have a feel for team WOMEN'S UPDATE Field Hockey 9-24 Union 4, Middlebury 2. 9-26 Union 3, U. of Rochester 0. 9-27 Union 5, ·wells o. 9-29 Union 1, Hamilton 0 (OT) '..._ Tennis 9-23 Union 4, Russell Sage 3. 9-24 Middlebury 6, Union 3. 9-29 Hamilton 4, Union 3. Volleyball 9-23 Unien vs. West Point: 7-15, 15-7, 15·9,8-15, 4- 15. Cross Country 9-20 UVM 32, Williams 70, Holy Cross 73, Amherst 102, Springfield 118, Smith 131, Fit- chberg St. 207, UNION 223, Mt. Holyoke, 244. Soccer 9-29 Siena 4, Union 1. By KELLY A. LIESE The Union College field hockey team now boasts a 4-o record after beatfug Hamilton (1-0) in overtime Monday af- ternoon. Prior to Monday~s contest, the Dutchwomen had completed a successful road trip by drubbing both the University of Rochester and Wells with scores of 3..() and 5-0, respectively. Debbie \Puffer\ Downey led the attack with t~o goals and Angela McCormick chipped in one against the U. of R. In the Wells contest, Downey and Ellen Heininger each contributed two goals with Emily Monossoil topping off the score with one of her own. Monday's match proved to be more of a challenge than Union expected, as Hamilton held them scoreless in regulation play. The Dutchwomen dominated the game with an aggressive offense led by center link Buthaina Shukri, freshman right back McCormick, left inner Heininger, and right inner Downey.Lisa Stern, Sue Ensel, and \Hustling\ Holly Howard earned defensive honors with their effective open field tackles, thereby squelching >- Hamilton's offensive attack and ~ fueling Union's assault. 1: After tying o-o at the end of 8 regulation play, the game was E decided in the second of two 7% {:. minute overtimes. The contest >- might have ended in a flick off if .o neither team was able to score, ~ but Union ended Hamilton's' if quest for a victory on a penalty corner when McCormick made a well~executed bandStop and Shukri drove it home for the win. Coach Marty Morrison felt that perhaps the team was too confident coming off three big wins and this game . was a \humbling\ experience for them. Union's next home game will be Friday, October third, at 3:30 when they host Smith College. Union's junior varsity team opens their season Friday, so come out and support the Dutch women. Keeper Johanna Briggs makes save

Page 12 OONOORDIEN81B} October B .. 1980 5porte Football: Improved Dutchme.n Bow By ED LYNCH As Hofstra's wide receiver John Morris hauled in George Muller's 75 yard bomb, setting up the winning field goal with 1:16 remaining, one could sense that the wind had been taken from the sails of the Dutchmen and the more than 3,500 who came out to cheer the ball club on. The Dutchmen supporters had seen a Union team block and tackle with more precision and enthusiasm than in years past. Although they were disappointed, they were not let down. The defense looked superb throughout the contest with the exception of two major breakdowns which in effect cost Union the game. These kinds of mistakes, however, are tih- derstandable and can be ex- pected; this having been the Dutchmen's first test of the season. The offense began slowly but scored early, after being set up deep in Hofstra territory by John Scotto's first of two in- terceptions. Back-up quar- terback Steve Nowak, who was inserted as a halfback, tossed a 12 yard scoring strike to senior end Henry Wright all. alone in the corner of the end zone. Hofstra came back and tied the ball game up midway through the second period. Kurt Murrell blew off left tackle and scampered 75 yards for a score. The Flying Dutchmen of Hof- Still Undefeated stra then went ahead at 8:35 of the third quarter when Jim Watson took a screen pass and rambled 37 yards fot a touch· down. Trailing 14-7, Union came out firing. Johnston, who had some trouble passing in the first half, began to connect thitting 7 of 9 in the second half), while running the option beautifuily. Freshman Billy Hutner did the majority of the ball carrying, taking it down to the Hofstra 28 yard line. Faced with a fourtfi- and nine, J'Ohnston fired to Wright who was slanting towards the middle. The tall, lanky senior end gathered in the pass only inches shy of a first down. Hofstra took over and in three plays was stacked up by the Garnet defense led by Mark Polomba, Carm Audino, and Mike Jenkins. Jenkins, a junior linebacker from Waterloo, Iowa, probably had his best day as a Dutchman. Hutner caught the ensuing punt and ran it back to the Union 40. From there, the of- fense took over with 8:52 remammg in the game. Johnston went over right tackle for a gain of three, behind Mike Dana and Chip Symington, who were consistently impressive throughout the day. After halfback Don Marino scam- pered to the Hofstra 39, John- ston then rolled to right and found freshman Mark Marro with a quick out and a gain of 19. Kickers Shine By GEORGE ROMAS This past week the Dutchmen have brought their record up to an impressive 3-0 by defeating nationally ranked teams, Cortland and ArJ!!Y. The game against Cortland was played at home before a fairly large crowd. The Union Booters started off playing a very aggressive game, putting Cortland on the defensive. The first half ended in a 0-0 tie, with Union's defense (John Krum, Pete Cholakis, Andy Dreher, and Ben Levitan) denying Cortland any shots on goal. The second half began with Dave Sheridan scoring for Union and Cortland retailiating soon after. Only a minute later. Bernie Zeifang scored the second, and winning, goal on a beautiful left-footed shot. Union finished up the game playing excellent soccer and adding two more goals (by Tim Agar and Evan Krinnick) to make the final score 4-1. The game against Army was played down in West Point. Army, who always has a good squad, seemed much improved from last year's team, which lost to Union · 2-0. This year Union's offense again opened up the scoring, with Hans Bukow booting one in on an assist from Andy Dreher in the first ten minutes of the match. That goal was to be the only one in the g~me, with Army pressing on the attack in Union's half ofthe field the entire second half. Again Union's defense shut their opponents out, leaving West Point with a 1-0 win. This week the Dutchmen play Hamilton a way on October 1 and come back to play Binghamton at home on Saturday, October 4. The soccer team is hoping for a large crowd to cheer them on to a successful season, so come out to Garis Field on Saturday and support the Dutchmen Booters. Indoor /Outdoor Track Meeting (men and women) Memorial Field House Thursday, Oct. 2nd 7:30 p.m. Marino again labored for the Dutchmen, breaking through the defense and running for daylight, only to he :tripped: up by the last Hofstra .defender. Quickly the crowd began to pick up a rhythmic clap as Union marched towards the Hofstra goal line. Jehnston on second' down and eight, rolled to his right and again £ired to Marro who was driven out of bounds at the Hofstra four yard line. Alexander Field went berserk. Johnston went to the s~deline to consult with Wirth, as He trotte4 back the crowd was still on its- feet. Hutner _ on the very next play took it up the middle aqd was stop~ed dead in his tracks. Johnston then rolled to his right and was. convicingly thrown out of bounds. With 4:13 remaining, Johnston again checked with Wirth, talking on the telephone with the coaches in the press bex. A plan of attack was agreed upon and Johnston repeated his trot back to his huddled teammates. On third down with little time left, Johnston made one of the nicest fakes that you are ever going to see. He quickly stepped and looked to his left as the defense moved that way - he pivoted to his right and hit Billy Butner on a swing pass. Hutner raced in for the score, bringing the Dutchmen within one. The decision had to be made whether to go for the tie or win. Wirth had already made up his mind. Later he remarked, \We had togo for the two ... we came to win the ball game.\ Johnston took the snap and rolled around right end, following the blocks of Dana and Symington, for the two point conversion, putting the Dutchmen ahead 15-14. When Hofstra got the ball back on their own 28 yard line, the crowd could sense a victory. With the exception of Muller's 75 yard run, the Garnet defense had stifled the Hofstra attack all day. Within a few seconds, these hopes were dashed. Muller hit Morris deep. Sud- denly, Hofstra was knocking on the door. On the next play, Muller was sacked by Bruce Melina, wheplayed an excellent game at outside linebacker. Muller was called for in- tentional grounding, moving the ball back to the Union 36. Just when it seemed that things might be looking up, Kurt Murrell hauled in a pass that was tipped by Union linebacker Dan Leff. Two plays later, Hofstra place kicker Gary Bennet sailed the game winner through the uprights. The Dutchmen took possession on their own 20 with 1: 16 left. Juni.or Qua-rterback Dana Johnston calls signals Trailing 17-15, Johnston hit l)ave Depasquale, then Henry Wright. His next pass with 30 seconds left was in desperation and it suffered the fate of most desperation passes - an in- terception in the waning Inoments. Joe Wirth had to be pieased with what he had seen in his debut as Head Coach. The defense looked strong throughout the game. Although the offense was at times a bit jittery, it was fairly effective. The emergence of freshman Bill Hutner (103 yards) and Mark McMorrow (63 yards) must have been a pleasant surprise. Junior tailback Don Marino also looked very good, although his stats were less impressive than those of Butner and McMorrow. Marino, who is not physically imposing, is a quick, shifty back . with very good football sense and amazing durability. He will pr-ove to be an asset to the team and a help to the younger players. · Although somewhat disap- pointed following the loss, the majority of players were op- timistic. Wirth's post-game talk did much to bolster their spirits. \I am proud of them;\ he Hofstra o 7 7 3--1'7 Union 7 0 0 8-15 U-Wright, 12 pass from Nowak (S. Johnston kick) H-Murrel, 75 run (Bennett kick) remarked. \We played a good ball game . . . we got outscored but we didn't get beaten. We're gonna have a helluva football team.\ One very unfortunate incident was the loss of Weldon Turner with a broken ankle. The junior middle guard from New Rochelle, New . York, really pulled the defensive unit together and his loss will prove costly. It is not expected that he will return this season. Another equally grave occurrence was the near loss of cheerleader Michele Provost, who had a bit of a hard time with a double body flip from the· top of a human pyramid. She is ex- pected to return next week. The lack of the Union cannon was a disappointment to all but was compensated for by the unique and rather unusual announcing of rookie P.A. man Bill Curtin. While the loss did not put the Dutchmen into the win column, it did get Joe Wirth's club off to a good start. Now that first game nerves and . mis- assignments have been ex- perienced and ironed out, the Union Dutchmen are on their way to an exciting season. H-Watson, 37 run (Bennett kick) U-Huttner, 4 pass from D. Johnston (Johnston run). H-Bennett, 36 field goal STATISTICS First downs Rushes-yards Passing yards Passes Returns yards Punts average Fumbles lost Penalties-yards Hofstra 17 41-212 103 8-17-2 46 6-29-3 2 9-55 Union 15 52-189 104 11-25-2 70 7-27~1 3 6-50 Spikers Drop .Opener By CORY LEWKOWICZ The women's volleyball team opened an impressive season last Wednesday at West Point. The Dutchwomen played well, but lost to the West Pointers in a long, five game match. Unioll< arrived late at West Point, and consequently had no time to warm up. They went on the court cold, and lost the first game, 7-15. Coach Lynn Barta played all the women in this game, to help them warm up. They fared much better in the second game, and took the home team, 15-7. Coach Barta explained their success by saying, ''The players got their act together\; they had over- come -first match jitters, and settled dQwn to play the sport. The third game also belonged to Union, 15-9, in an \easy\ defeat. West Point consistently served and played out of bounds in this contest. Union played hard and well during their second and third-games; the !turth game proved more difficult for the Dutchwomen, due to loud crowds and fatigue, both mental and physical. They had to bear down mentally, but lost, 9-15. By the fifth game they had lost much of their stamina, and, according to Barta, the Dut- chwomen beat themselves. ' A noteworthy performance was made by junior Ali~ia Grandlund, who used many fine blocking maneuvers. Overall Union hustled well, and left Barta optimistic for the rest of the season. She expressed her vie.ws by saying, \I think that will be one of our few losses of the season.\ The only problem she foresees for the young team is serve reception, but she noted that they have developed the rest of the necessary skills well. Last night Union hosted Vassar and New Paltz. The Dutchwomen will host Platt· sburgh and LeMoyne on October 6, and Williams and North Adams on October 9, before playing Siena arid RPI at RPI on October 13. r.: a ·- § Fi Fi Sh Mah 1 E Jack Mainte Plant, • heat ir mitory other n get hea1 College the COl Carnegi Hill mainte months, evoke a saw thE The we have no improvE Last Directo1 dozen cordi em derway Some o dicappe1 in Nort Dormit1 visible. changes lot to be anew rc Psycho: several of CarnE \95 to 9, One < structur work on be rena: Hall. Tl pletely 1 be redes be read Office t< 15 and I the Dea not pla building Christm his offic centrate the heav the late Much within t energy pro gran the oril~ from th1 Pietran~ in Da~ Monday had beE here.\ Hesid haven't They h~ abouttht Kappa, Fox, wal Preside said the1 days in;

it it a n n 0 e r t ·October 9, 1980 Volume 110, Num~r 4 Activities B~dgets Cut Finance Vice President Jim Fisher (center) sits with Finance Commit.tee members Mark Zukowski and Marla Shore. Maintenance Problems: By EDWAR.DDIAMANTE Student or ga niza tiens, aLready hit hard by inflation, face a five to 10 percent reduction in their allocations from the Student Activities Fund. But.few are complaining. Indeed, many student organizations seem to be quite understanding, despite the hardship entailed, and are, in fact, applauding the actions of the Student Forum. Sue Gray, Coordinator of Cabaret, while admitting that the cuts may force some dubs to \scrimp a bit,\ called the cuts a minor \'inconvenience\ stressing that The I Heat • IS Off By JOE MAGUIRE Jack Hill, Director of Maintenance and Physical Plant, expects to turn on the heat in North College Dor- mitory early next week. All other residence halls began to get heat last Sunday, but North College will have to wait until the construction in front of Carnegie Hall is finished. - the hot water supply had been erratic, Phi Sig called Main- tenance several times to report, among other things, flooding hot water heaters. Cockerham reports that some of the brothers had taken care of one of the floods themselves. Hill acknowledged this problem, and cited the size of the water heaters as the cause. These heaters are only used for hot water when the central room heating system is not on. Next year Hill plans to make \whatever changes have to be made in the burner system to make the system supply enough hot water.\ As of today, everyone on campus who should be getting heat from Jack Hill's steam system is, ,with the exception of the five buildings in the North Colonade. They are: North College, The Arts and Psychology Buildings, Bronner House, and Professor Huntley's house. But Hill says he is \quite confident that we can have their heat on by the first part of next week,\ the Student Forum \did what they had to do.\ Gray's response was typical of the reflect bills outstanding. Now, because of the new procedure, Fisher is confident. \~{an item wasn't ,iust~fied, we cut it.'' Jim Fisher\) Finance Vice President responses given th1s week by club leaders interviewed. Student Forum Vice- President for Finance, Jim A. Fisher, is proving himself able and proficient in his new role as~­ Chairman of the Finance Committee. Last year \there were no guidelines,\ said Fisher, some committees consequently \couldn't keep track\ and found themselves spending in deficit. This year the reporting procedure has changed. Two books are now being used instead of one; one book is used solely for recording bills received, while another is kept to record bills outstanding. Last year, said Fisher, the fact that bills weren't received until the end of the month, caused a \discrepancy in the books\ between the ones held by the clubs, and therone in the student activities office, which did not that the Finance Committee can \keep close tabs\ on individual club accounts by periodically reconciling their total money spent (bills received and out- standing) with their authorized spending limit. Fisher said the Finance Committee has already con- sidered some of the initial budgets. Using \zero-based budgeting,\ the committee has ''looked at each line\ in the proposed budgets ana,wtrere an item ''was not justified . . . we cut it.\ Nevertheless, Fisher does not hesitate to defend a program he feels is justified. In reference to the sizable budget of the Concert Committee, he responded that they ''have proved themselves.'' Hill has been director of maintenance here for ten months, and is still working to evoke all the improvements he saw the need for last winter. The women of North college have no heat, due to one of these improvements. Last week the Maintenance Director cited more than a dozen proiects for Con• cordiensis, which will be un- derway or completed this year. Some of these, such as han- dicapped access improvements in North and South College Dormitories, are already visible. Other structural changes include a new parking lot to be built for Lamont House, a new roof to be installed on the Psychology Buildi_ng, and several interior improvements of Carnegie, which Hill said are \9!) to 98 percent complete.'' WRUC Celebrates 60th There are two major reasons for the reduction. The first reason is simple. This year there have been a number of new student organizations formed. With a fixed amount of funds available for allocations, with these new dubs joining in for a piece of the Student Activities Fund \pie it naturally follows that the ''slices\ for the existing clubs are going to be smaller than before. One of the most elaborate structural jobs on campus is the work on Old Gym Hall, 'soon to be renamed Stanley R. Becker Hall. The building was com- pletely gutted this summer, to be redesigned this fall. It should be ready for the Admissions Office to move in between Nov. 15 and Dec. 1. Kenneth Nourse, the Dean of Admissions, does not plan to move into the building until very close to Christmas Day. This will afford his office some time to con- centrate on applications during the heavy interview schedule of the late fall term. Much of Hill's work falls within the domain of Union's energy conservation heating program. North College is not the orily dormitory suffering from these heating woes. John Pietrangelo, a Resident Advisor in Davidson House, said Monday that, until Sunday, it had been \a little brisk up here.\ Residents of Fox House haven't noticed the cold air. They have been too worried about the cold water. Phi Sigma Kappa, a fraternity housed in Fox, was hit equally hard. Vice- President Keith Cockerham said there were \three or four days in a row last week\ when By LINDA SHER On Oct. 5, 1920, with a phonograph playing into a receiver of a radio-telephone set, a college radio club broadcast a musical for two hours to a fifty mile radius. On the 14th this same club became· the first college radio station in the country with a regularly scheduled broadcast. Since then it has acquired new and more advanced equipment, expanded its programming, and now - broadcasts 24 hours a day, seven days a-week. ·This .same radio station is Union's WRUC and celebrates its 6oth an- niversary next week. A cake cutting and cham- pagne toast Monday night and a birthday record-hop in the Pub Tuesday will highlight the celebration. Records and drinks will be awarded. Special programming with reference to the anniversary will be broadcast throughout the week over WRUC. ~. Chartered with toe purposes of providing training ground for communication, electrical, and managerial skills, educational· and entertaining programs, and to serve the college and com- munity, WRUC has progressed a great deal since its first night etc. As a non-commercial station, WRUC offers numerous ser- vices to Union and the Schenectadyarea: News at 12:15 and 6:15 p.m., sports at 12:15 p.m., a ride board, job line, Sunday night financial report, Community Calendar, and much more. The station features a new-release Monday through Friday at 10 p.m., live interviews with area per- formers (listen for the Henry Paul Band later thi~ month) and an open request line. WRUC may be the biggest student participant activity on campus with more than 110 people involved in production, sports, news, and music. Special Programs aired next week at 9 p.m.: on the air. The student organization believes it is a place of endless opporrunities, 111 an outlet for all styles of ~ creativity. Once the disc- jjj jockeys pass a WRUC standard . test, they are free to play -, whatever they desire. ] Sunday--\ A Spring of Dissent\-campus unrest in the Vietnam era; Monday--The Grand Opening of the Fox Studios, March 1963; Tuesday- An interview with Wen dell W. King and William J. McCaig, the two students who did the first scheduled broadcast; Wednesday--\Focus on the Mideast\ Professors Pelletier, Johnson, and Jonas discuss the invasion of Afghanistan; Thursday-\The Memory Bank Championships 1978\ =the best contestants from WRUC's own game show; Friday-President Martin launches a $30 million fund drive--n-ecember 1966; Saturday-\The Best ofthe Nott _ Witts,\ the classic skits from WRUC's zany comedy show. WRUCprides itself on its vast -5 record library, collecting 100 to ~ 150 albllllls a· month from more than 180- record compania.. There is no specialization within ~ the library, rather an expansive if selection in all areas~ jazz, rock, disco, foreign imports, Disc Jockey Jason Deutschmetster on the air The second reason is not quite as simple. Provisions are being _ included to allow for a con- tingency fund. Last year there was a contingency fund of $8,551. This year the fund may be increased, in effect giving more discretion to the Finance Committee which must determine whether an inn dividual budget request by a club is justified. In short, clubs running low on funds will have to go· before the Finance Committee for approval. The more money in the contingency fund (and the less money that the clubs are granted in their original allocation), the greater the Finance Committee's role in spending decisions. Essentially, a contingency fund's purpose is self-defining. It is an appropriation to be put away for unforseen cir- cumstances. But, a large contingency fund is also useful in preventing the waste of funds by clubs \trying to spend what they have left-just to get rid of it.\ In other words, by having less money to begin with, the club will be more likely to spend those limited funds on essen-. tials. Therefore, with a sizeable contingency fund, in the words of one committee member, the Student Forum would have \a system to allocate efficiently.\ Of course, these thoughts, until the Finance Committee releases the specifics on the size, and proposed uses of this year's contingency fund, remain speculative. But it just may be that some clubs are going to be spending a bit more of their time \proving them- selves\ this year, than last.

Page 2 . . OONOORDIEN818~ October 9, 1980 Editorials: Waiting for Warmth The falling temperatures of early fall are generally counteracted by a rise in the consumption of heat and hot water. Unfortunately, for many students thls is not always possible here on campus. (See story, Page 4.) Due to the construction In front of Carnegie, Prof. Huntley's house, North College and the attached complex will be totally without heat until the middle .of next week--well into the middle of Octooer. Newly appointed Jac.k Hili, Union's Director of Maintenance ana the Physical Plant, said that the project has • 'kind of slipped ba:ck a Uttle further than it should have.\ This means that the Huntleys and approximately 80 girls living in North wUl be forced to deal with the cold until the construction can be .completed. Students living in Fox and Davidson, as well as North, frequently find them'\ .selves without enough hot water at the prime times when many students take their showers. Our hot water depends on a burner system which was just turned on last Sunday, Oct. 5. Until it gets underway, no change can be expected. Mr. Hili says he was told that this is a normal occurance at this time of the year. He plans to take care of it next spring when the burners are shut off again. The situation has been ignored up until now. Although Maintenance seems to be doing everything they can to deal with the current situation, there was n9 reason for it in the first place. There is never any reason why anyone housed by the College should have to contend with anything so crucial as the lack of heat. Granted, we are not living in arctic conditions, and a cold shower will not kill any of us. Still,lt seems that the impracticality of delay was clearly put before the welfare of the students, faculty, and staff. At this point, there is no solution we can offer. It is a bit late for that. Making the best of existing conditions will have to suffice. However, we feel the issue is too important to go without comment. The students, faculty and .staff are the facets which make up the spirit of Union. The decisions made seem to have somewhat less than sufficient regard for these people than they should have. Inflation Hits. Home One of the unalterable facts about modern American life is that prices are bound to rise. Although Union is in many ways removed from the real world, this is one concern that the College cannot escape Tuition, fees, room and board charges are all scaled to rise annually so they can keep pace with the national inflation rate. And this is the price we must pay if Union is to-continue offering the same quality of academic and extracurricular offerings. • Indeed, one of this College's strongest assets is its non-academic pragram-- includlng clubs and activities, not to mention the newspaper you're reading now. For the past three academic years, each student has paid $99 annually in such activity fees. During this time, however, prices have continued to rise and a number of new activities have been introduced that require funding. Now, ihe Student Forum's Finance Committee, which administers and allocates the 20,000 or so in Student Activity Fees, will recommend an across-the- board ( 5-10) percen.t cut in the amount of money it allocated for this year to each student activity. (See story, Page 1.) 11 While this move might rub some people the wrong way, we see little alter- native and therefore support it. Activities that had not been envisioned last spring when this year's budgets were approved are now requesting funding. Because they will presumably involve enough students to make their requests justifiable, ther~ seems to be little choice but to fund them. Still, a contingency fund must be maintained to cover additional, unforeseen expenses that develop during the year. . · ·While an activities budget cut, administered equally and fairly, appears to be the way to stretch this year's student tax dollars, this is only a stop-gap measure. Prices will continue to rise and new activities will continue to come into existence. The longer-term solution, therefore_, seems te be to raise the annual student activity fee. Haising it, for example, to $150 per student annually would create an additional $10,000 or so. .. This is the action we hope the Finance Committee will recommend to the Student Forum. In so doing, we hope the committee will study the question and recommend an amount that will cover what it believes will be additional fees required for the next s~veral years. Once it receives the request, we hope that the Forum will handle it in the ap- propriate manner--keeping in mind the inevitable fact that goods and services will cost more next year than this. • • •• concof01¢n615 Editors-in-Chief News Editors Features ·Editors Arts Editor Photo Edit()r Sports Editors Women's Sports Editor .Sports Photo Editor Layout Editor Business Manager Subscriptions Editor Calendar Editor Staff Jim Davis, Julie Isgro Joe Maguire, Gale Vanore Judi Chervenak, Fred Fender Bob Fox RichSher Bill Curtin, Rich Hope Cory LewkoWicz Tom Conway Rachel I. Mandel Lawrence C.l.eavitt Ellen Burger Maria Manfredonia Claire Bmchill, Sharon Camins, Demetra Pogtisakos Charles Richards, Jeff Sclardino Photo Staff Michael G. Elkins, Steve Lerner, Charles Richards CONCORDmNSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna. Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office· as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. . CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. Tc ByBl andM At longl Food Serv 0wn. Wha1 stagnation finally cotJ tremendou the ingez under Fot Angelo M~ at Union ~ more ~ttr theast. Sp1 renovation the West C and at Hal this year dining the . past seve1 been achie equipment bad mana1 Rather foibles an various foe the prese served Un be focuse( eff0rton bE and the· Robert K• Union Col] viable and The prt Mazzone.~ tricate. F having ha< experience received upperclas without tt comfortabl has resul inadequate inordinate and procec upgradedt number of to have bE during tl Unfortunat going to h< Mr.,Maz: and positi dean, in r demands r; service, as planned < program, I new and ex food servic At Wesl were made as a massi, debt was penses rea by R.S.V.l tract food:s Gra'y cites eluding .. < mospbere want to ere opposed· cafeteria.\ men wil Recently, ~ table cane and mas; silverware In fact, la: spent on r flatware r . ' Incurred th Very imp store for Mazzone h Salerno, classmatec manager c Salern0 bt

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS) October 9, 1980 Editorials: Waiting for Warmth The falling temperatures of early fall are generally counteracted by a rise 1n the consumption of heat and hot water. Unfortunately, for many students th.is is not always possible here on campus. (See story, Page 4.) Due to the constr-uetion in front of Carnegie, Prof. Huntley's house, North College and the attached complex will be totally without heat until the middle of next week--well lnta> the middle of October. Newly appointed Jack Hill, Union's Director of Maintenance and the Physical Plant, said that the project has \kind of slipped back a little further than it should have.\ This means that the Huntleys and approximately 80 girls living in North will be forced to deal with the cold until the construction can be completed. Students living in Fox and Davidson, as well as North, frequently find th.em- selves without enough hot water at the prime times when many students take their showers. Our hot water depends on a burner system which was just tur-ned on last Sunday, Oct. 5. Until it gets underway, no change can be expected. 1\fr. Hill says he was told that this is a normal occurance at this time of the year_ He plans to take care of it next spring when the burners are shut off again. -'lhe situation has been ignored up until now. Although Maintenance seems to be doing everything they can to deal with th.e current situation, there was no reason for it in the first place. There is never any reason why anyone housed by the College should have to contend with anything so crucial as the lack of heat. Granted, we are not living in arctic condition~. and a cold shower will not kill any of us. Still, it seems that the impracticality of delay was clearly put before the welfare of the students, faculty, and staff. At this point, there is no solution we can offer. It i.s a bit late for that. M:aldng the best of existing conditions will have to suffice. However, we feel the Issue is too important to go without comment. The students, faculty and staff are tile facets which make up the spirit of Union. The decisions made seem to have somewhat less than sufficient regard for these people than they should have. Inflation Hits Home One of the unalterable facts about modern American life is that prices a~e bound to rise. Although Union is in many ways removed from the real world, this is one concern that the College cannot escape Tuition, fees, room and board charges are all scaled to rise annually so t:hey can keep pace with the national inflation rate. And this is the price we must _pa.y if Union is to continue offering the same quality of academic and extracurricular offerings. · Indeed, one of this College's strongest assets is its non-academic prog-ra.rn-· including clubs and activities, not to mention the newspaper you're reading- ll()W. For the past three academic years, each student has paid $99 annually In such activity fees. During this time, however, prices have continued to rise an-d a number of new activities have been introduced that require funding. Now, the Student Forum's Finance Committee, which administers and allocates the 20,000 or so in Student Activity Fees, will recommend an acrm;s-the· board (5-10) percent cut in the amount of money it allocated for this year to e.aeh student activity. (See story, Page 1.) ll While this move might rub some people the wrong way, we see little ~Iter­ native and therefore support it. Activities that had not been envisioned last spring when this year's budgets were approved are now requesting furJ.ding. Because they will presumably involve enough students to make their ~ectuests justifiable, there seems to be little choice but to fund them. Still, a contiNgency fund must be maintained to cover additional, unforeseen expenses that develop during the year. . While an activities budget cut, administered equally and fairly, appears t<> be the way to stretch this year's student tax dollars, this is only a stop-gap m ea.stue. Prices will continue to rise and new activities will continue to come tnto existence. The longer-term solution, therefore, seems to be to raise the annual studEnt activity fee. Raising it, for example, to $150 per student annually would cr-ea.te an additional $10,000 or so. This is the action we hope the Finance Committee will recommend tCJ the Student Forum. In so doing, we hope the committee will study the question ~U~d recommend an amount that will cover what it believes will be additional fees required for the next several years. Once it receives the request, we hope that the Forum will handle it in tile ap- propriate manner--keeping in mind the inevitable fact that goods and ser-vices will cost more next year than this. 11 .. concoroien515 Editors-in-Chief News Editors Features Editors Arts Editor Photo Editor Sports Editors Women's Sports Editor ,Sports Photo Editor Layout Editor Business Manager Subscriptions Editor Calendar Editor Staff Jim Davis, Julie Isgro Joe Maguire, Gale Van()re Judi Chervenak, Fred Fencl.:Jr Bob Fox Rich Sher Bill Curtin, Rich Hope Cory LewkowiiCZ Tom Conway Rachel I. Manrlel Lawrence C. Leav-itt Ellen Bur~er Maria Manfredol1ia Claire Burchill, Sharon Camins, Demetra Pontisak::os Charles Richards, Jeff Sciardi.no Photo Staff Michael G. Elkins, Steve Lerner, Charles Richards CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union Colle~e, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. r = Letters College Day Thanks Dear Editoz-.s: The recent event celebrating Back To Colleges' Day was soggy, at best. 1 must admit the enthusiasm of those students from Union College and Schenectady County Com- m1lnity College who did par· ticipate rnaO.e aU of the effott worthwhile. I wish to expre,s~ thru);ts by this means to · .ef£()rts helped us . to the attention great success. A total of 261 units were collected, breaking last Spring's record by 26 units. The keg winners are first floor Davidson, second floor South, first floor Richmond and Theta Delta Chi. The kegs are provided by Theta Delta Chi and Dean Kellett. I ask the winners to call me at 6473 to arrange prize delivery. On· behalf of the Red Cross. I thank an who donated and urge the students and faculty who did not donate to do so in the winter. Respectfully, Geoffrey Tolge Student Recruitment Chairman Lnrrra!~~,,.~r·,'J.qn.n I ... :·~'tff,, M~c.i[tng· .·.~::· :~~:n,:.-:·e·· Thank you. Karen Sessler Tampon Alert Toxic Shock Syndrome (TSS} Beverly K:leczek iS illness which occurs . E~utive Director a .. :exclusively in wom~n Downtown Sclrenec.ta.dy U1.eif . period, Assoetation · · ·.by a sudden · · Seh'ene<tady ~i>tmty accompanied bY • Chamber oJ Conttneree d,i~rtbea and muscle' Student is followed by a drop blo~lclJ)rel~$u,re· and shock. In · · · .· . , a \S.unburn- . . . 10 ('ltll~et. 4'-kN· hl.;:·-.. wnl. <! ·I ' I • i ' i : ' :>- .0 0 0 [ ByE and lV At long Food Sel'1 own. Wh:: stagnatiOJ finally co1 tremendo the inge under Fe Angelo M at Union more att theast. Sr renovatio1 the West 1 and at Ha this yea dining the past sevE been achi' equipmen bad mane Rather foibles a \'arious fo the pres1 srrved U1 be focuse t'ffort on t and the Robert R Union Co: viable am The pr Mazzone tricate. l having ha experienc received uppercla; without t comfortat has resu inadequat inordinate and proce upgraded number o to have b during .j Unfortuna going to h Mr. Ma~ and posit dean, in demands service. a! planned program, new and e: food servi At We~ weremad1 as a mass debt was penses re< by R.S.V. tract food; Gray cite: <'luding rnosphere want to cr opposed cafeteria.' men wi Hecently, table can and rna~ silverwarE In fact, h spent on ~!at ware, Incurred t: Very imJ store for Mazzone l Salerno, classmate manager Salerno b . . : ~.~ .... ',. .. ~ ... ..

... ill .r: :1/l -5 :ii >- :0 0 0 .r: 0.. OONOOBDIENSIS, Octo~er 9, 1980 ·page 8 Blue Skies Over Union College Coping Students on meal plans eat better this y~r. To ~Eat·-or ~~Not to Eat By BRUCE KAPLAN and MARK ZUKOWSKI ,.. exteasive background in the food industry. Having served as an executive chef at several At longlast the Union College Capital District restaurants, as Food Service has come into its well as having worked with the own. What many perceived as Swift Company, Mr. Salerno stagnation in the past has was invited to join the Food finally come to blossom. With a Service Executive Association. tremendous influx of capital, Having overcome severe in- the ingenious manag ernent ventory procedure problems, a under Food Service Director lack of storage space, and an Angelo Mazzone, the food plan antiquated facility, Gary, as he at Union should be one of the wants students to call him, has more attractive in.~ the Nor~ set his sights on changing the thea st. Specifically, iinmediate atmosphere at Hale House from renovations, and inriovations at that of a dining hall, to one of a _ the West College dining facility '\fine eating establishrrient.\ and at. Hale House should make To that end, Mr. Salerno and espec.iaHy mentioned Mr. Hauser of the Business Office ·and Dean K-ellett as strong .proponents of upgrading the Food Service. · We asked a sophomore about the new plans, and about the upgrading of the Food Service t!lis year. She ·responded, \I'm not really impressed thus far, but the year is still youn·g. We have- always heard a lot of administrative double talk in the past, been led down the primrose path. But I'm willing to wait and see. It's an am- bitious job.\ So it is. ''Upstate- sucks,\ declared my irate friend Bill and minutes later we were on that long thoroughfare leading into N. Y.C., \downstate.\ We had hoped to have the pleasure of viewing a film. To our great consternation, however. we found that the mall closed at the inauspicious hour of 11 p.m., · while in \the city\ movies run aU night. As we pondered our predicament and lack .of en- tertainment, Bill shared his well-phrased opinion of Upstate with us all, and we were on our way to the civilized world. The vulgar word for our. expedition is ''roadtrip,\ meaning any trip of great · length conceived of and executed within a period of a few hours. Fraternities are well acquainted with this phenomenon, as many a bewildered pledge will attest to. Getting back to the point, as I sat cramped in Bill's \car(?)'' I began reflecting upon other curious collegiate activities; indeed, I began to understand that this was just a small part of the traditional \wild and crazy life\ of a college student. Many of you may not be aware of \collegitis.\ For those who are wondering whether or . not they are afflicted with this wonderful condition, I present the following questions: Do you find yourself walking in the rain because you haven't heard a weather forecast in weeks? Do you find that although you wetl· once bright~yed and bushy- tailed in the morning you now resemble a red-eyed monster that someone has been using as a floor mat? Do you wake up in strange places with pizza on your breath? Do you suffer from temporary hearing loss and sore feet after fraternity parties? Have you ever played broomball at 2 a.m. when you have an 8:30 organic test that morning? Do you travel to distant places on a moment's notice? Have you ever made a 12·: 30 tun -to Price Chopper? Have youbeen influenced by the rwnor that God rested for six days and then pulled an all- nighter? If you have to cram all night to answer these questions. chances are you are a typical 1 Union College student. If you I answered yes to less than three of these questions, get the hell out of 'the all-night study and live a little. this year's school-operated · ·Mr. Mazzone have .(lgreed, to dining the most enjoyable in the open Hale House starting this past Several years. This has . Saturday; Oct. 11, for Saturday been achieved despite a lack of and Sunday brunch and dinner. equipment, space, and residual Furthermore, plans arc in the America Losing Status bad management practices. making for an extension of the Rather than belabor the· ~Hale House eating area into the foibles and blunders of the Old Chapel to accommodate an various food services, including additional 160 people. This will the present one, that have be carried out over Christmas served Union, attention should break. In the interim, any be focused on the aggressive suggestions· are actively effort on behalf of Mr. Mazzone, solicited. and the·· Dean of Students, Further down the toad, plans Robert Kellett, to make the are being made and support is Union College Food Service a being gtirnered for a new _800- viable and· classy operation~ .seat dining facility. The facility, The problems facing Mr. overlook1ng Jackson's Gardens, Mazzone. are myriad and in- is to have one wall of solid glass, tricate. For example, after and will nouse a centralized having had a year of operating food· facility at a cost of two to experience; the Food service three million dollars. Mr. received an additional 200 Mazzone projects that such a upperclass dining contracts, facility would be economically without the . real capacity to feasible as it will save an comfortably service them. This estimated sixty to seventy has resulted in long lines, thousand dollars in personnel inadequate servicewarc, and an · costs alone. inordinate tax· upon facilities Mr. Mazzone feels that the and procedures which had been administration is quite upgraded to suit-the anticipated receptive to his plans, and has BySVENPAUL Europeans are a strange lot. Actually, they can be categorized into a number of lots. The qlder generation ad- mires the United States a great deal. They remember the Second World War: They remember the ~Yanks and the Marshall .Plan. Indeed, the general attitude of older Europeans is one of gratitude and admiration. However, it appears that as age decreases, admiration for the U.S. decreases as well. Old Glory runs into a few problems when dealing with the middle-aged Europ_eans. The general consensus of the average European mother and father regarding the U.S. seems confused· ana uncertaim Undoubtedly,,at least compared -to the Soviet Union, Americans are still the \good guys.·~. Our · principles of freedom, liberty, and justice are· certainly more appealing than many of the other political options facing Europe. However, a common catch phrase among these people is that \America just isn't what it used to be.\ In many ways, they may be right. Mtcr ail, at the time of their youth, America was un- doubtedly the greatest power in the world. At present, however, America's military and economic might is being seriously questioned by the rest of the world. A common question asked by many Europeans is, \What has happened to the United States?\ They hold that if we were strong leaders, they would most likely follow. Aside from this confusion, these unan- swered questions, middle-aged number of boarders, and were · · to have been upgraded sbwly T · ' A B · d during the present year. . er· ms w· ay· roa en Unfortunately, things now ~e . . . . . · · . going to have to be sped up. Mr . 1 Mazzone, with the active . and pasitive support of the dean, in response to the new demands placed upon the food service, as well as following the planned capital .investment program, has outlined several new and exciting changes-in the By JILL BRYCE Studying in a foreign land, living with a native family and experiencing a new culture first hand are just some of the things a· Union College term abroad food service. , offers. Union offers a wide range of resident study prograrv:s in a number of At West College, changes were made to the decor, as well . as a massive debt paid off. 'The debt was incurred from ex- penses realized for renovation by R.S.V.P;, a previous con- tra~t food:service. Manager .Jan Gray cites plans for West in- cluding .. creating \an at- mosphere of upgrading. We want to create a dining_hall, as opposed · to a freshman cafeteria.\ Despite this 1 fl•esh- men will be freshmen. Recently, a case and a· half ·of table candles, potted plants, and massive amounts of silverware have been pilfered. In fact, last year $26,000 · was ' spent on replacing silver and flatware, most of which was incurred through pilferage. Very impressive things are in store for Hale House. M1·. Mazzone has · appointed Gary Salerno, an old college classmate of his, to be executive manager of the facility. Mr. Salerno brings, to Union an foreign countries. . This term there are Union students studying in England, France and Italy. During winter term students will have the opportunity to travel and study ·in Greece, Israel or Columbia. There are openings for a spring term in Germany or Austria. Applications are accepted until Dec. 1. While abroad the student must take three courses. Each of these courses may be used for meeting graduation requirements for Liberal Lea:rni'ng and the major. Courses taken in the program emphasize knowledge of the native language. In addition, there is a broad examination of historical literature, art, 'and politics of the country and a third course that sometimes involves independent study. A Union . professor who acM companies the students teaches one of the three courses. An independent organization which specializes in foreign study courses for American students offers the courses. While in the foreign coWltry, the students usually live in- dividually with a native family and participate in the unique cultural live of that country. Pam Schwager, who traveled to Spain last winter, was one student who lived f;llone with a family, She adjusted quite easily to the situation; there · was a 21-year-old girl in the fa~;nily. . The term abroad program is c{)mparable in cost to a term on campus and all ~cholarships apply on the same basis. It is approximately ,$2,400 which ~ludes tuition, room, board and the administrative costs of · the program. The cost of the term excludes air fare and spending money. Any extra traveling is done before or after the term or during the student's leisure time. Pam traveled in England for ten days before the ter!l1 began and after the ten weeks she traveled in Italy. The term abroad programs- are offered io all students qt the College regardless of their malor. To be eligible for the . program a student must have a cumulative index and preceding term index of 2.0 as well as certification by the Dean .of Students that the student is prepared to participate iri~ foreign study. The term abroad program has been very successful since it first began in 1969, when 58 students had the opportunity to study in France or Austria. Since that time, 200 students a year take part in the term abroad program. Joan Freeman, who is the ad- ministrative assistant for the program, believes \it is a truly ·broadening experiencer'' This response seems to be heard again and again from students who have studies in a foreign land and experienced the culture. After spending 10 weeks in Spain, Pam feels it was a great experience. She said, \There were language barriers and difficulty in communicating which was frustrating, but tbe trip was really good. Living in Spain made me appreciate America more.\ Although Pam found it very hard _academically, she said she would definitely do it again. Europea)1s still seem to look toward the U.S. for leadership. Now, however, we must turn our attention to Europe's young.er generation--our generation. Levi's jeans, University of California T-shirts, Adidas .sneakers, and New York Yankees jackets are com- monplace garb among European youth. However, their desire to look like Americans is greatly con- trasted by their views of our country's present political position. In many instances, I actually experienced a sirong distaste for' America. This feeling may possibly be more of envy than hatred, but the fact remains, that a good deal of Europe's younger generation does not care for us at aU. The youth of Europe seems to be undergoing the same metamorphosis that over- whelmed our college com- munities in the 1960s. They seem to be fed up with the \Establishment.\ The desire to control their •fate, indeed the fate of the world, seems im- possible to them. The punk movement, advocating com- plete anarchy, is stronger in Europe than in the U.S. The young people overseas seem quite determined to change the type of society they live in. But why should this lead to a strong dislike for the U.S.? For years, the U.S. has dominated the policies of European countries. Read any European newspaper. Chances are that an article about the U.S. will appear at least once on the front page. Not only is the youth of Europe fighting against the power of their own respective governments, they also find that their daily lives are greatly affected by a force thousands of miles away from them. I believe that this con- stant pressure of the U.S. may add to a feeling of helplessness among the youth of Europe. But why is this of any real im· portance to us here in America? I believe that this unfriendly attitude may be a sign of things to come. After all, the beliefs held by the youth of Europe today will become the views of the leaders of Europe in another twenty years. The increasing Continued on page 9 \t' .. • • \ 1 7 io ,. • ~ I , o - ~ • 4· '~{ '* ~ ,.. ,_ ... ,, J, ·- • • l .• _: ·\' ~~ 1 ' ~Jy~~~~~~ ~t'$t~t·t.~!'t'vt·~~· ~~!~,L~~~/-.•!~o~.;;\\. . ..,_..}.:IJ.,_;..<;~'t~;..;J'.-..'Vft~t.'\.•l.A\~'}-rio;r~f'7';~~'\\~~-.~\\\\~~~-~;~\\¥'l' ~\' ~\' \\(>*\!J' ~ .• •.\ • ~ . • . . . /' • I ~-., f ~· · t: ~ : · ·~ 1 r.. ':: -r r ' t ~ ; ~ -.; l, ·\ \; '- ..:· \ \' ~ ,. .~· .'\· ; ~ t· ~ ~ • \' ~ or \' 'f ~- 'lr \-.\'\ ... o. 'l'l • ~'It • _• t .!' :-! r ~- : ~ ~ ~ c; ~ ~ o: ·~ '\.~'( .. \'---~ .... ~ ~-:': ~ ~ ~ : t ~ f

I r i ' ' . I ; I ' I , I ' < ( • OONOORDIE N818, October 9, 1980 ·page 3 Blue Skies Over Union College Coping Students on mearl plans eat better this year. To Eat or Not to Eat By BRUCE KAPLAN and MARK ZUKOWSKI extensive background in the food industry. Having served as an executive chef at several Capital District restaurants, as well as having worked with the Swift Company, Mr. Salerno was invited to join the Food Service Executive Association. Having overcome severe in- ventory procedure problems, a lack of storage space, and an antiquated facility, Gary, as he wants students to call him, has set his sights on changing the atmosphere at Hale House from that of a dining hall, to one of a ''fine eating establishment.\ especially mentioned Mr. Hauser of the Business Office and Dean Kellett as strong proponents of upgrading the Food Service. We asked a sophomore about the new plans, and about the upgrading of the Food Service this year. She responded, \I'm not really impressed thus far, but the year is still young. We have always heard a lot of administrative double talk in the past, been led down the primrose path. But I'm willing to wait and see. It's an am- bitious job.\ So it is. \Upstate sucks,\ declared my irate friend Bill and minutes later we were on that long thoroughfare leading into N.Y.C., \downstate.\ We had hoped to have the pleasure of viewing a film. To our great consternation, however, we found that the mall closed at the inauspicious hour of 11 p.m., while in \the city\ movies run all night. As we pondered our predicament and lack of en- tertainment, Bill shared his well-phrased opinion of Upstate with us all, and we were on our way to the civiHzed world. The vulgar word for our expedition is ''roadtrip,\ meaning any trip of great length conceived of and executed within a period of a few hours. Fraternities are well acquainted with this phenomenon, as many a bewildered pledge will attest to. Getting back to the point, as I sat cramped in Bill's \car(?)\, I began reflecting upon other curious collegiate activities; indeed, I began to understand that this was just a small part of the traditional \wild and crazy life\ of a college student. Many of you may not be aware of \collegitis.\ For those who are wondering whether or not they are afflicted with this wonderful condition, I present the following questions: Do you find yourself walking in the rain because you haven't heard a weather forecast in weeks? D<, you find that although yuu wen· once bright-eyed and bushy- tailed in the morning you no\\ resemble a red-eyed monster that someone has been using a.s a floor mat? Do you wake up in strange places with pizza on your breath? Do you suffer from temporary hearing loss and sore feet after fraternity parties? Have you ever played broomball at 2 a.m. when you have an 8:30 organic test that morning? Do you travel to distant places on a moment's notice? Have you ever made a 12:30 run to Price Chopper? Have you been influenced by the rwnor that God rested for six days and then pulled an all- nighter? If you have to cram all night to answer these questions, chances are you are a typical Union College student. If you answered yes to less than three of these questions, get the hell out of the all-night study and live a little. At long last the Union College Food Service has come into its own. What many perceived as stagnation in the past has finally come to blossom. With a tremendous influx of capital, the ingenious management tmder Food Service Director Angelo Mazzone, the food plan at Union sh@uld be OI:Je of the more attractive in the Nor- theast. Specifically, immediate renovations, and innovations at the West College dining facility and at Hale House should make this year's school-operated dining the most enjoyable in the past several years. This has been achieved despite a lack of equipment, space, and residual bad management practices. To that end, Mr. Salerno and Mr. Mazzone have agreed to open Hale House starting this Saturday, Oct. 11, for Saturday and Sunday brunch and dinner. Furthermore, plans are in the making for an extension of the Hale House eating area into the Old Chapel to accommodate an additional 160 people. This will be carried out over Christmas break. In the interim, any suggestions are actively solicited. America Losing Status Rather than belabor the foibles and blunders of the various food services, including the present one, that have ~rrved Union, attention should be focused on the aggressive t>ffort on behalf of Mr. Mazzone, and the Dean of Students, Robert Kellett, to make the Union College Food Service a viable and classy operation. The problems facing Mr. Further down the toad, plans are being made and support is being g~rnered for a new .BOO- seat dining facility. The facility, overlooking Jackson's Gardens, is to have one wall of solid glass, and will house a centralized food facility at a cost of two to three million dollars. Mr. Mazzone projects that such a facility would be economically feasible as it will save an estimated sixty to seventy thousand dollars in personnel costs alone. Mr. Mazzone feels that the administration is quite receptive to his plans, and has BySVENPAUL Europeans are a strange lot. Actually, they can be categorized into a number of lots. The older generation ad- mires the United States a great deal. They remember the Second W()rld War: They remember the~ Yanks and the Marshall Plan. Indeed, the general attitude of older Europeans is ()ne of gratitude and admiration. However, it appears that as age decreases, admiration for the U.S. decreases as well. Old Glory runs into a few problems when dealing with the middle-aged Europ_eans. The general consensus of the average European mother and father regarding the U.S. seems confused and uncertain. Undoubtedly,.at least compared 'to the Soviet Union, Americans are still the •·good guys.\ Our principles of freedom, liberty, and justice are certainly more appealing than many of the other political options facing Europe. However, a common catch phrase among these people is that \America just isn't what it used to be.\ In many ways, they may be right. After all, at the time of their youth, America was un- doubtedly the greatest power in the world. At present, however, America's military and economic might is being seriously questioned by the rest of the world. A common question asked by many Europeans is, ''What has happened to the United States?\ They hold that if we were strong leaders, they would most likely follow. Aside from this confusion, these unan- swered questions, middle-aged Mazzone are myriad and in- tricate. For example, after having had a year of operating experience, the Food Service received an additional 200 upperclass dining contracts, without the real capacity to comfortably service them. This has resulted in long lines, inadequate serviceware, and an inordinate tax upon facilities and procedures which had been upgraded to suit the anticipated number of boarders, and were to have been upgraded slowly during the present year. Unfortunately, things now are going to have to oe sped up. Terms Away Broaden Mr. Mazzone, with the active and positive support of the dean, in response to the new demands placed upon the food service, as well as following the planned capital .investment program, has outlined several new and exciting changes-in the food service. At West College, changes were made to the decor, as well as a massive debt paid off. The debt was incurred from ex- penses realized for renovation by R.S.V.P., a previous con- tract food service. Manager Jan C;ray cites plans for West in- ducting creating \an at- mosphere of upgrading. We want to create a dining hall, as opposed to a freshman cafeteria.\ Despite this, fresh- men will be freshmen. Hecently, a case and a half of table candles, potted plants, and massive amounts of silverware have been pilfered. In fact, last year $26,060 was spent on replacing silver and flatware, most of which was incurred through pilferage. Very impressive things are in store for Hale House. Mr. Mazzone has appointed Gary Salerno, an old college classmate of his, to be executive manager of the facility. Mr. Salerno brings to Union an , By JILL BRYCE Studying in a foreign land, living with a native family and experiencing a new culture first hand are just some of the things a Union College term abroad offers. Union offers a wide range of resident study prograrps in a number of foreign countries. This term there are Union students studying in England, France and Italy. During winter term students will have the opportunity to travel and study in Greece, Israel or Columbia. There are openings for a spring term in Germany or Austria. Applications are accepted until Dec. 1. While abroad the student must take three courses. Each of these courses may be used for meeting graduation requirements for Liberal Learning and the major. Courses taken in the program emphasize knowledge of the native language. In addition, there is a broad examination of historical literature, art, and politics of the country and a third course that sometimes involves independent study. A Union professor who ac- compahies the students teaches one of the three courses. An independent organization which specializes in foreign study courses for American students offers the courses. While in the foreign country, the students usually live in- dividually with a native family and participate in the unique cultural live of that country. Pam Schwager, who traveled to Spain last winter, was one student who lived alone with a family. She adjusted quite easily to the situation; there was a 21-year-old girl in the farpily. The term a broad program is comparable in cost to a term on campus and all ~?cholarships apply on the same basis. It is approximately $2,400 which includes tuition, room, board and the administrative costs of the program. The cost of the term excludes air fare and spending money. Any extra traveling is done before or after the term or during the student's leisure time. Pam traveled in England for ten days before the ter!TI began and after the ten weeks she traveled in Italy. The term abroad programs are offered tG all students at the College regardless of their major. To be eligible for the . . . . . l· ........ __ /r~,A, .. 4~ ··t·~ ~···\' .......... ~,~;,•• !J,JA •• , .... -.· .. ,~.· ... ~~ .. : .. ~.~ ... ~ .... ~ .. ·:.\ ............. ~ \1. •.• •• ·.·~ .•••• ., •• .: program a student must have a cumulative index and preceding term index of 2.0 as well as certification by the Dean of Students that the student is prepared to participate in foreign study. The term abroad program has been very successful since it first began in 1969, when 58 students had the opportunity to study in France or Austria. Since that time, 200 students a year take part in the term abroad program. Joan Freeman, who is the ad· ministrative assistant for the program, believes \it is a truly ·broadening experience;\ This response seems to be heard again and again from students who have studies in a foreign land and experienced the culture. After spending 10 weeks in Spain, Pam feels it was a great experience. She said, \There were language barriers and difficulty in communicating which was frustrating, but the trip was really good. Living in Spain made me appreciate America more.\ Although Pam found it very hard academically, she said she would definitely do it again. Europeans still seem to look toward the U.S. for leadership. Now, however, we must turn our attention to Europe's younger generation--our generation. Levi's jeans, University of California T-shirts, Adidas sneakers, and New York Yankees jackets are com- monplace garb among European youth. However, their desire to look like Americans is greatly con- trasted by their views of our country's present political position. In many instances, I actually experienced a strong distaste for America. This feeling may possibly be more of envy than hatred, but the fact remains, that a good deal of Europe's younger generation does not care for us at all. The youth of Europe seems to be undergoing the same metamorphosis that over- whelmed our college com- munities in the 1960s. They seem to he fed up with the \Establishment.\ The desire to control their ··fate, indeed the fate of the world, seems im- possible to them. The punk movement, advocating com- plete anarchy, is stronger in Europe than in the U.S. The young people overseas seem quite determined to change the type of society they live in. But why should this lead to a strong dislike for the U.S.? For years, the U.S. has dominated the policies of European countries. Read any European newspaper. Chances are that an article about the U.S. will appear at least once on the front page. Not only is the youth of Europe fighting against the power of their own respective governments, they also find that their daily lives are greatly affected by a force thousands of miles away from them. I believe that this con- stant pressure of the U.S. may add to a feeling of helplessness among the youth of Europe. But why is this of any real im- portance to us here in America? I believe that this unfnendly attitude may be a sign of thmgs to come. After all, the beliefs held by the youth of Europe todav will become the views of the leaders of Europe in another twenty years. The increasing Continued on page 9

Page 4 OONOO~JJIE'f!SIS, October 9 1 1980 City Tax Viewed ByGALEVANORE The College administr~tion is looking into a possible precedent set at the University of Rochemer concerning the tax ·exemption of privately owned fraternities. This was a court deciSion upheld by the Appellate Division of the State Supreme Court. Union College is interested in apply,i.ng this case to its six privately owned frater- nities. The Director of Finance of the University of Rochester stated, \'We went through ·considerable court procedures. The argument was .that these .fraternities. owned by the University are really · University property and are tax exempt like any other property.\ Ile further explained that this is not a predecent unless the same circumstances exist at another college. · Of~ieials at Union Ce1lege se~ business meetings from the a similarity and are .seeking tax outset of the project and cites Phi Delta Theta is one of the rndeper'lden~ fraterniJies se'eking a tax exerript.ion. ex:emption for Phi Delta Theta, one of the biggest obstacles to I • That Girl, This· SchoOl Delta Phi, ~hi Ps~, Psi Ups.ilon, ~he program: \No one from an Alpha Delta Ph1, and Stgma mdependent house wants to Phi. sacrifice their autonomy for According to the Union this project. Dean Kellett has CoHege Prelimi:riary Report of ~lso told me that he wants to the Ad Hoc Committee on preserve the independence of Fraternities and Sororities the houses because it affords released May, 1979, \The initial the brothers greater •respon· test fot tax .exempt status is sibilities than a college owned whether the corporation or house.!! Alexander Murphy, association is organized ex~ treasurer of Alpha Delta Phi, elusively for tax ex:empt pur- feels such a status makes the . poses. The second test to be fraternity more attractive. applied pertains to the actual Two meetings have already use of the realty in question and taken place. A committee will requires showing that the be formed and a model lease _ property is 'used exclusively' wiU be written ''induding the for corporate exempt .purposes wor~ ·control, maintain,'etc.,\ lp. 26).\ explained Hauser. \We Peter Pettit, Chapter Advisor have to find a middle ground. for Phi Delta Theta, stated, There ·is. no doubt oUJ:· frater- ''Rochester's leases had nities could have operated very provisions which allowed them independently with little or no to be taken off the college tax college involved.\ Hauser feels · roll. The independent frater- that some change is necessary nities are now looking into it; it for this to happen. is one of their ultimate goals.\ The problem faced by Union Continued on page 10 By CHERYL DOWTIN Celebrity feminist Marlo Thornas spoke to more thaJJ 600 people Monday night in the Memorial Chapel .in a talk sponsored by the Speaker's Forum. The speech was an hour and a half program, in which sJ:ie allowed time to answer questions from \the audience_ after delivering her speech. The actr~ss producer is best known for her role in \That Girl,\ which aired in the 60's.· She .followed it up with her childrens series ''Free toBeYou and Me.\ Hef latest venture, \The Body Human: The Facts for Girls,\ is a candid .sex education program for girls, which was shown Tuesday afternoon on the CBS .network. The six privately owned fraternities here are considered individual houses and assessed city taxes as such. Most other buildings ate ¢onsidered part of Union College and are assessed as one. What also differentiates independent chapters from college owned chapters, such as Phi Gamma Delta and Delta Upsilon, is that the independent chapters control and handle their own room and board fees. Boarders in a college owned house pay room fees, utilities and other fees to 'their chapter treasurers to cover ,costs of Women's Network chapter operations. The University of Rochester has tax exempt status for educational purposes and this status; according to John Hauser, vice president of finance here, \is not a key factor in Rochester's decision. What it boils down to is who operates, controls, maintains and supervises what goes on in that facility.\ Joe Maguire, 'treasurer. of Phi Delta Theta, has attended \Computer Simulation? By SUE BLOOMBERG The Women's Netowrk is a group ori campus which deals with .issues· .,facing women at Union College. At its meeting on Oct. 6, Karen Weisgerber, President of the Network, discussed committee plans for the 1980-81 school year. The Network is divided into four committees: Activities, Action, Women's Week and Community Awareness, which form the base of· the organization. Besides planning activities for women on earn- pus, the Network is involved in \creating a sense of community and finding solutions to · problems facing Union College women.\ Major events for the month of October were discussed at It was mytakeof1 to a greatfuture.\ Monday's meeting. As a part of homecoming activities, a cocktail party is being planQed for female -almnni on Oct 17. A political debate between representatives of the Presidential candidates is planned for Oct. 28. Women's NetworkC~lend:ar Friday, Oct()ber 10-:-Lunch in the Women's Network room OM third floor, Carnegie. Topic: Birth Control, 12:30-1:30. Sunday, October 12-Seminar on the Right to Life Movement 12:00-4:00. Anyone interested in attending call 377-8153 or 382· 9303. Wednesday, October 15-- ;women's Network meeting, 7:30. - ,f Becoming a Link Engineer has made a big difference in my career. I· wanted a c;hallenge. And the chance to design somethirig excillng. Unk gives me that chance and more. We're looking for graduates with degrees - in Engineering (EE, ME, IE) Computer Science. Physics. and Business. See us on ccnnpus or contact A. C. Esworthy- Link Divisi6n of Singer, Binghamton, New York (60'7) 7?2-3561. Modem simulation technology was porn at our company more than filly years ago CII).d ever since then. we've been the lridustry's leader in the design and manufacturing ot aviation Qnd aerospace training devices. Our trainers can realistically fly you from New York to LA and Houston to the moon without ever leaving their hcmgar., AO.ISII)Iffl•fHJ SINGER ll!Mi'A!Y Binghamton. New York 13902 Link Simulation is Future Engineering ON.CAMPUS INTERVIEWS UNION COLLEGE FRIDAY OCTOBER 17, 1980 ~ Equal Opportunity 1mploror M/F She defended its frank view continued, \With. equality point by saying, \There are no comes rough stuff, and I think religious views, or moral views, it's,tirnewe an grew up and took just facts and feelings. People the responsibility fm acting our go throl;!gh many changes ~ age. The only thing thc;~t is truly during adolescence, but tnat feminine is giving birth, and the seems to be a, great time of only thing that is truly silence between parents and masculine is planting the seed.'' children. And .before the topic is Ms. Thomas said people must discussed, someone is in take and equal chqnce at trouble.\ running things and at proving The Equal Rights Amend~ themselves, and Should not hide .ment(E.RA)was anothertopic on behind the labels of Feminine Miss Thomas's speech. She and Masculine.\ said, ''People who are against Ms. Thomas alse·commented equal rights want women on a ·on' the upcoming Presidential pedestal, like statues in a .election. \President Carter museum. But statues do not could .be doing more to secure have to listen to babies crying,· the passage of the ERA I don't \ or to wars'. I think women think he's doing enough. When should be running everything he. wants to get something with the men. Men_need women . passed, he can get it passed, with an equal vision and equal and he has not had that kind of complaints, so they can be who interest in the E:ij.A.\ they want to Qe. '' ·. Marlo Thomas, recently Ms. Thomas got her in- married to talk show host Phil spiration from her Italian Donabue, will make a comedy grandmother who did what she next summer and will remain wanted. \When I was growing committed to the femininst up, we were taught don't sweat~ caus~s. Everyone is 'looking it doesn't look~ood, don't beat a forward ·to good things from man, don't get a good job, She \That Girl.\ Fall into something good! Summer· s done Fall has come Color's bnght Cool at night Pizza would. Hot and good Hit the spot. Wily not? Fast, free delivery 12.7 Nott Terrance Telephone; 372-4441 , our drivers carry less than $20 l,.or'l\tdE'd dl'lo~e-ry area _ ~ C 'PYr!Qhll 980 DOminOS p,zz:a InC ~ on Un Dr Uni S. M the of 1980 This presic \UJ to pc: Sche1 camp said. benef Way: valve at Un being progr~ Unite creatE Join annou Unite€ Jean the chairJ camp~ sophm on the Counc Last Su~ Cel Eac sors t which festiv~ Kukko Garde Ace Suk:ko1 beginr ending Jewis ( corrE Septe1 Essen thank:: two co the Su histori four I brancl myrtlE are bo in ordc fruitfu ObsE elude l evenin day. I< reside the Su be so\ mores than OJ bene at a tree featurE playinl music tertain Sukko separa Shemil Conch (Rejoic marks the c;y fromtt the s; Azeretl bring t approp

y \ g e e As expressive as ever, Marlo Thomas. pauses to emptlasire one of her comments. . OONOORDIENSIS, October 9, 1980 Page 5 Marlo ThQma·s Spea-ks Out By ROBERTA RUBINSTEIN Monday evening at Memorial Chapel Marlo Thomas arrived amidst a warm welcome of anxiously awaiting fans. · From the moment she began speaking, it was evident that Ms. Thomas 'had sparked the interest of hex: audience. Her charm and perserverance touched all those who listened to her speech, yet there was an obvious contrast between the reactions of the men and women present. Although Ms. Thomas made a conscious effort to refrain from sounding chauvi-nistic, one could not deny that her sentiments sounded less then uneffected by male opposition toward equal rights. Marlo often spoke about men and women working side by side at the same jobs in the same positions yet she could not help but add that this would only ·work ''if the men could keep up.\ The women in the audience reacted to this with sincere applause while one could not miss the way the men shifted uncomfortably in their seats. Ms. Thomas, along with many other supporters of Equal Rights, was not preaching about passed tl:le hwnor involved. Afterall, why is it so unheard of for a woman to be considered for the presidency? A man might not cry over an ex- tremely stressful situation, but the ability to repress tears does not make a man a better can- didate for president. - female superiority, nor was she A ·. 8 . . OUN·n - c·AM. p· u· S insisting that women shoUld ·. • . • • . . . • . . ·. . • . • . - ~~~r;~::r:~~~;,~ ~:,';;: . . . . --the same oppo_rtunities a~ men. Freedom. to be who you want to be and who you can he was what Ms. Thomas seemed to be emphasizing. This goes for women and men alike. One's gender should not be the deterrent for one's abilities. Why should a rnan'.s manliness be dependent upon how well he can hold back his tears? And why should a woman feel that she is less ·Of a women because she can think as clearly as a man? United Way Drive Union College President John S. Morris recently. announced the official start of the College's 1980 United Way campaign. This years campus goal, the president said, is $12,000. \Union is pleased once again to participate in the annual Schenectady United Way campaign,\ President Morris said. \While the College benefits directly from United Way support of artificial heart valve research being conducted at Union, it also benefits from being part of the vital, progressive community which United Way agencies help create.\ Joining President Morris in announcing the start of Union's United Way fund drive were Jean C. Pelletiere, director of the College library and chairman of the campus campaign, and Sheila Walsh, a sophomore class representative on the College Student Affairs Council. Last year's College fund drive Sukkot Celebration Each year JSO-Hillel spon- sors the building of Sukkah, which is a booth erected for the festival of Sukkot. This year's Kukkot was built in Jackson's Garden. According to the Bible, Sukkot extends for eight days, beginning with the 15th ., and ending with the 22nd of the Jewish month of Tishri (corresponding to dates in September and October). Essentially a festival of thanksgiving, it is marked by two commandments, to dwell in the Sukkah in memory of the historical event, and to take four plants ..... a citrus fruit, . a branch of the palm tree, and myrtle and willow twigs which are bound together and waved in order to give thanks for the fruitfulness of the land. Observances of Sukkot in- clude festivities starting on the evening p~eceeding the second day. Ideally, individuals are to reside and take their meals in the Sukkah. The Sukkah must be so well covered that there is more shade (i.e. covered space) than open space, and it must be beneath the open sky, rtot under a tree or inside a house. 'Sukkot features torch dancing. flute playing and other forms of musical and choral en- tertainment. The eigth day of Sukkot is theoretically a.. separate holiday and is called Shemini Azereth (Festival of Conclusion). Simhat Torah (Rejoicing of the Law), which marks the annual completion of the cycle of public readings from the Torah, is celebrated on the same day as Shemini Azereth. Its joyous celebration bring the Sukkot season to an appropriate close. raised $11,284 and helped the education division of ·the Schenectady United Way top its goal, Pelletiere said. ' 'While the College did very well last year, we need to keep the momentum this year, in order to achieve our goal and lend our support to local services,\ She added.- This year, for the first time, Union students will be involved in the campus fund drive, Pelletiere said. She noted that more than 100 College students annually are volunteers for Big Brothers, Big Sisters of Schenectady County and other Uni~ed Way agencies. Homecoming Floats - All campus organizations, including clubs, fraternities,· sororities and dormitories have been invited to participate in the first Annual Homecoming Par.ade. The theme is \The Way We Are.\ Each float should reflect the identity of the organization it represents. , The parade itself wjll be in and around campus on Homecoming Saturday, Oct. 18, at Union. Awards will be presented during the half-tim~ at the feotball game. Rene Wellek To Speak Rene Wellek, Sterling_ Emeritus Professor of Com- parative Literature at Yale University and a renowned literary critic, will speak here next Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Wellek's lecture, entitled \Literature Fiction, and the Literary,\ will be held in the Humanities Building, room 115. Wellek has been called the dean of American literary critics, but, he enjoys an in- ternational reputation, as well. More than any other individual, Wellek has defined the discipline of comparative literature and given it stature. ' German Cinema The German Cinema is on the rise. This is the opinion of many film critics and fihn buffs. The New York Times recently (April20, 1980) summed up the situation as follows: The fifties and early sixties were dominated by English film- makers (Richardson, Reisz, Schlesinger, Lean). The films of France's New Wave illuminatea the sixties (Truf~ faut, Godard, Chabrol, Audran, Rohmer). Near the end of the sixties there was a brief period of extraordinary fihn making excitement irt Czechoslovakia (Forman, Passer, Menzel, Nemec). The seventies, if they belonged to any one group of filmmakers, belonged to the Italians (Bertolucci, Wert- muller, V1sc~nt1,. Antom.ont, In response to hearing Fondato, Rosel). With the films somewhere that someone had of Rainer Werner Fassbinder, nominated \Miss Piggy'' for Werner He~zog, Volk~r president, Ms. Thomas com- Schlondorff, W1m Wenders ~nd mented that \it would figure Peter Handke, we are entermg that the first female to be t~e decade o_f the ~erman nominated for candidacy would Cmema. The films commg out be one that couldn't speak for of Germany are exuberantly herself.'' , original and artistically risky. The film directors are ex- perimenting with new :kinds of film narrative and are at- Continued on page . 6 The response to this was overwhelming, but the applause was for the me~sage she was bringing out, for this far sur- This question and the whole cencept of being \Free to Be\ is one that none ·Of us take ligbtly. Marlo Thomas, \That Girl\ spo~e without reservation on this subject, bringing out personal failures and triumphs 'alike. Not only was her message accepted warmly, but her performance was every hit as captivating as her anx:ious listeners had anticipated. fisll? \ ' \ .• There's a quicker way to catch It I I f you love fresh fish and want ,some in a hurry - come on in for our Golden Fried Haddock fillet. A deep- sea delicious, golden fried treat that's crisp, tasty and ready to eat when you are. So. catch it quick, catch it fresh at Mini Chopper- the little store for folks on the go. r MOUNTAIN DEW OR REG., DIET OR LIGHT f85 Pepsi • Cola 6 pk. 1s oz. S N.R. BOTILES e LIGHT OR DARK, 12 OZ. N.R. BOM'LES ~39 Lowenbrau Peer sp~ t#JI. 12 OZ. N.R. BOTTLES Miller Beer the lillie store for folks an the go. •'\\' a.~!PIRI c.avpper Van Vranken Avenue or Broadway, Schenectady ~ \II pnces effrcli\'f thru I ktoher 19. 19K!I ·super ch1cken. Haddock fillet. lleh 1tems and.donuts available at our \an\ rank en store on I) Open 6 a.m. thru midni~ht - I days a week.

Page 6 OONOORDIEN818, October 9, 1980 .~ :J ....., >- ..0 0 0 .c a.. Just one of many Highland Village Landscapes which offers a view of the Scottish countryside near St. Andrews. Dylan Tho·mas: - St. Andrew's Student Comes to Union ·ByANNERUTH Over the murmur of student voices in the din-ing haU, at the library or before classes, you may have detected a distinct British accent. In all probability that voice belonged to Simon Coates, our foreign exchange student from St. Andrews University in Scotland. Simon, a medieval history major, is spending a full school year here while a Uni0n student studies in Scotland. BefOre -corning to Union, Simon's college education was one steeped in tradition. Simon explains, \St. Andrews is a very traditionally based school. Courses whkh are taugtit are those more in the broad mainstream, such as Classic~. English, History and French.\ Computet Science, Engineering and Art are not part of the curriculum. Classed focus on · the written word with a tutorial paper due about every ten days. gowned students gather on the pier, it .is for different reasQns, \It provides a chance for students who haven't seen each other in a few days to meet,\ -reveals Simon. The Ritual serves as a means for everyone to get out, enjoy the day, and each other. Because of its deep traditions,. The -Poet • 1n His /Chains Simon adds that structure and tradition are also very evident in the student make-up of classes; \At Union, a senior can be in the same class as a fresh- man,· but at St. Andrews that never happens. There is no intermingling. Freshman take freshman courses, Sophmores take second year courses, and so on. The standard is set.\ The standard is also set as far as the variety of courses a student may take. Once students reach their third year of study .at St. Andrews, they are not per- mitted to take courses outside their major. Specialization is mandatory. Simon believesthat St. Andrews is quite different from Union. That is precisely why he is here. \I came to Union because I wanted something completely different from St. Andrews. I want to see differences so as to compare, contrast and evaluate the strengths and deficiencies of both the British and American Systems,\ explains Simon. He also adds that \coming to the States is essential to a 2oth century education because of the racilities and opportunities it offers young people which Britain lacks.\ By JOANNE M. WHITE \Now as I was young and easy under the apple boughs About the Hlting house and happy as the grass was green, The night above the dingle starry Time let me hail and climb Golden in the heydeys of his eyes ... \ The above selection is from \Fern Hill,\ a poem illustrating the adult Dylan Thomas' search for the innocence of the childhood that he loved dearly. This was one of the major themes of Walford Davies' lecture, \The Poet in His Ch~ins'' (from the last line of that same poem~\Time held me green and dying- Though I sang · in my chains like the sea.\) delivered before a small audience last Tuesday night in the Humanities Building Faculty Lounge at Union College. Davies, a personal friend of President John Morris, is currently head of the Department of Extramural Studies at the University of Wales, Aberystwyth. Dylan Thomas once referred to his native country of Wales as \the land of my fathers; and fathers can keep it',\ yet Davies maintained that the Welsh culture, and particularly, his native home of ·Swansea, remained deeply embedded in the man. Although Thomas' father engaged an English tutor for the boy, who developed what he himself termed a \cutglass accent,\ Thomas' poems, although basically unpeopled, reflect a devotion to the land of his youth. Dylan Thomas, according to Davies, is a poet who realized only half of the poetic possibility earlier achieved by Yeats or Keats. For Davies, W.H. Auden and Thomas together could have become the one great poet of the twentieth century. Thomas' poetry effectively expresses a heightened sen- sitivity to the world around him, yet his mind was never ad- vanced through education to the level of his imaginative ability. . While Auden perfected his in- tellectual capabilities as a student ·at the University, Thomas remained at home, learning the craft of poetry. While his mother nurtured and indulged him in his childhood illness, Thomas explored his imaginativet emotional potential. He ffisliked studying, believing that his own death was imminent and therefore, that he did not need edueation. The protectiveness of his home environment sheltered him and also limited him as a poet and as a man, for he never fully understood the adult world. Walford Davies grew up in the small village of Pontyberen, Wales, and attended the same grammar school as did the Scuba Club is Reinstated By JUDI L. CHERVENAK Union College's Scuba Club has been reinstated after a five year peri-ad of dormancy. Dwight P.akan, the club's president, has. high ex- pectations for its suecess. This Winter term, the club will offer instruction in basic scub diving. After completion of the course, the participant will be a certified scuba diver. Dwight plans to have the club purchase tanks, regulators, wet suits, and other scub equip- ment. This equipment will be accessable on demand to cer- tified members. The dub is going to offer many.· · ·actjvities to suit everyone's interests. These include films, lectures, scuba diving, advanced classes in diving, underwater photography classes, deep sea fishing and various trips, in- cluding one already planned for Key Largo, Florida during spring break. Club President, Dwight Pakan, is \really enthusiastic about the club. There are already 23 members and we hope to have more. Last week, we had our first scuba diving trip at Davotts Lake in Renn- selaer County. A lot .of people who ha:d never been, diving before went. and everyone seemed. to enjoy it. We can really do a lot with this club if our members are enthusiastic. We have extra potential because costs are being kept down since both the school and the club are going to pay for part of the course.\ ·There is a general meeting on Thursday, October 9th, in SSOlO, for all interested in any aspect of the club or in the upcoming trip to Florida. Anyone interested is welcome. German Cinema Continued from page 5 · tempting to communicate the meaning .of contemporary life by distilling reality until it1ooks and sounds quite unreal. Today German Cinema is more ex- citing and alive than that of any other country in the world. In order to give Union College a taste of the up and coming German Cinema, the Minerva Committee (formerly 'The Lectures, Concerts and Fihns President's wife .. He received a scholarship to Keble College, Oxford; where he studies the English language and literature, directly ouf of high school. He has. held several positions, as a lecturer in English literature at Oxford and University College, Buckland, in addition to visiting professorships at the University of Leece, Italy, and the University of the South, Sewanee, Tennessee. He is a member of the Welsh Arts Committee and the Adult Education Committee. He has edited and introduced several books on Thomas, Gerald Manley Hopkins, and Worda sworth. Currently he 'is writing a critical study of. W .B. Yeats and an edition of the poems of Thomas Hardy. Circle K • IS By S.W. SEIBERT The Union College Circle K Club, now entering its fourth year at Union, is quickly becoming one of the more ac- tive student organizations on campus. The membership of 45 meets at 6:30 every Wednesday evening in Fox Lounge to discuss business and plan projects. . Circle K is a \service\ organization, integrating fun with service. Some of the projects Union Circle K has. undertaken this term include selling newspapers with the Schenectady Kiwanis Club to raise money-for area children's organizations, orgainizing a major. walk·a-thon to benefit he· . At1;hritis Fom1dation Qfi Oct. 19, and bringing a cheering section to home football. games. Circle K will a-lso .be· working witb the Alumn-i Office during Homecoming Weekend to provide security for the floats during the two nights prior to the parade and to fill the many balloons which will soon appear on campus. Circle K tries to be a \total organization\ by sponsoring · social activities as well as service projects. Their year began with a wine and cheese party, and the club regularly • • • Committee) is sponsoring a film series this fall and is bringing four very recent German films by three of the most well-known directors to campus: The Marriage of Maria Brown, Fasshinder-Oct. 7. Ali: Fear Eats the Soul, Fassbinder--Oct. 21. Stroszeck, Herzog-Nov. 4. A Free Woman, Schlondorff- NoV..··18~i \~-.. ~. · Strong traditions are not only Because he .is interested in limited to academics at St. obs.erving differences Simon Andrews,' but are also deeply will be taking courses at Union rooted in social affairs. One which reflect an American ritual involves students donning bias:. Ame:ican History, red graduation type gowns for Arnencan ~tudtes etc. as w:en as different campus functions. , __ cou~ses which are not available \The gowns bring the students to ~rn at St. Andrews su~h as together as an identifiable m.us1ca~d sculpture. But S~on group, \explains Simon, will no.t Jl:lSt t~ to Ac~demt.cs \Everyone from the party for an mstght mto ~enc~n ~fe going and non-working student · he hopes to expenence 1t ftrst to the scholar wears his gown to han~, whether th.a~ ~eans at· university occasions.\ Gowns tendmg ~· party, JOmmg a club are particularly evident on or travelmg around the co~try. Sundays after Chapel services He has· already planned ~nps to wben students take what is Boston, N.Y. a!ld Washm_gton. called \the pierwalk/' This Througho';It ht_s stay Sti?on dates back to the days when hopes to drmk deep ~f ~erican Sunday speakers arrived by culture (but he wont drmk th~ boat and were waved off after tea because he says we make It chapel by gowned students at wrong, it should be made with the school pier. loose tea leave~ rather than tea bags) and he 1s \undetubtably Today, however, when the glad to be here.\ travels to visit neighboring Kiwanis Clubs, Key Clubs, and other Circle K Clubs. · Although Circle K is affiliated with Kiwanis International it is a totally self-governing. Cirele K is connected with no religious organizations or political parties, and _it is open to both men and women. Circle K is a national organization with over 700 clubs -in colleges throughout the U.S. and Canada. When an organization this large works together towards a certain goal FIELD itOCKEY '-· RUSSELL SJ,QE the results can he quite im- pressive. Concerned students run the organization, from the international president of Circle K right down to the newest member. -The philosophy of Circle K is as follows: \College is more than scholarship-it's a good time; it's getting to know others; it's finding out who you ar~; it's trying to make a meaningful contribution to a world that wants us to wait. Circle K provides a unique opportunity for reaching each of these goals.\ \' ... 10 .r= u >- .D 0 0 f l Ne Few I College j the acti Smythe~ at our ah a biology involved many oct was cau1 illegal a periment Union t becomin~ you well to cross tl spread.in1 This inte lst A 2nd; M.C.:

1/) 'i: ttl .c: u >- .0 0 ..-. 0 .c: a. OONOOBDIENSIS, October 9, 1980 Page 7 · culture Robbins Named Chairman Distinguished Professor Dr. Daniel Robbins News From Smythe Few people on the Union College ca~pus are aware of the activities of Eustas P. Smythe while he was a student at our alma mater. Smythe was a biology m.;~jor, and was very involved in his field of study. On many occassions yol!ng Eustas was caught performing, if not illegal at least immoral, ex- periments .. In his first years at Union he had thoughts of becoming a mortician, . but, as you well know~ Smythe decided to cross this great nation of ours spreading an incurable disease. This interest in the non-living provided the topl!:! for the majority of Smythe's ex- periments. Eustas became so involved with dead people that it turned into a craze. Mannequins dressed as dead celebrities were often found to be fixtures at Smythe's house. The members of Smythe, in recognition of the great history of our house's namesake, will honor Eustas with a party on Saturday night. So, get into the. spirit of things by coming as your· favorite dead celebrity. •'-_. 1st Act: Steve Marks and Leslie .Nadel 2nd Act: Robin Molella M.C.: Assistant Dean of Students, Mike Andolina Shows at 9 and 11, Thurs. Od. 9. Tickets on sale 8 p.m. in Carnegie Daniel Hobbins, a scholar of modern art and former museum director, has been appointed May I.C. Baker Professor of the Arts Bt:- Union College. Robbins will also serve as chairman of the College Arts Department. Robbins' appointment was announced by Thomas J. D'Andrea, vice-president for academic affairs at Union. In announcing Robbins' ap- pointment, D'Andrea said, \Union is fortunate to have an endowed chair in the arts with which to attract a scholar of Professor Robbins' distinction. With his experience as an educator and as a curator aad museum director, he will be a valuable addition to our arts program and to our faculty.\ \I'm very glad to be at Union, where integration of the liberal arts and the sciences is a strong tradition,\ Robbins said. I want to encoura'ge all students, wheth~r arts or engineering, humanities or sciences, to explore the creative arts a'nd their history. Regardless of future career, the well-educated student should not leave college without a firm sense of the principal values of civilization as embodied in the visual arts, in drama, and in music.\ The May I.C. Baker Professorship in the Arts is an endowed professorship established by the Union College Board of Trustees, according to the wishes of Mrs. Baker's ·husband, the· late . Walter C. Baker. Mr. Baker, a 1915 Union graduate, was a member of the College Board of Trustees from 1932 until his death in 1971 and was a chairman of the board for 22 years. He was a retired vice president of the Guaranty Trust Co. Mr. Baker was also a trustee and treasurer of the American Academy in Rome and the Archaeological Institute of America .. •A collector of classical an- tiquities, particularly Greek and Etruscan .bronzes, Mr. Baker also collected master·and contemporary drawings. The Baker drawing$ have been displayed at the Matropolitan Museum of the Arts, where the,r for PRESIDENT UNION COLLEGE CAMPAIGN W! NEED VOLUNTEE'RSI For Information, Call Chuck Br~in- 785-1408 785-8585 are now part of the museum's permanent collection, and in several international exhibitions. Mr. Baker was a trustee and · later vice president of the Metropolitan Museum and was a member of the Council of Fellows of the Pierpont Morgan Library. The humanities faculty at Union was recently named the Walter C. Baker Faculty of the Humanities, in honor of Mr. Baker and his second wife, the late Lois D. Baker, also a College trustee. Robbins, an authority on modern French art, especially cubism, has a wide ranging interest in modern art. His 1980 publications include Cubist Drawings, co-authored with Jean Sutherland Boggs; a catalogue essay on Picasso's Vollard Suite; Toulouse- Lautrec, eo-authored with his wife; and a History of the Vermont State House, currently in press. Among earlier books by Robbins are Albert Gleizes: Faith and Reason in Modem Art; Jacgues Villon: Painting Between the Wars, and catalogues of the collections formed by Roy Neuberger and Herbert and Nanette Rothschild. His \Statues to Sculpture,\ an examination of the development of modern sculpture in America, was published in the Whitney Museum'.s bicentennial 200 Years of Am erie~ Sculpture •. and \Folk Sculpture without Folk\ was published by . the Brooklyn Museum in Folk Sculpture USA, another major bicentennial catalogue. Similar diversity is exhibited in the several dozen exhibitions, catalogues, and articles that Robbin had prepared. He is currently completing a study of cubism and a theoretical history .of the institutions of art. Teaching has always been inportant to him, Robbins said. His courses . have. not only examined standard areas of art history, but have also included seminars in the history of art institutions, in aspects of museology, and in problems such as color and perception or patronage. ' A native New Yorker, Rob- bins received his bachelor of arts degree from the University of Chicago and his master of l - 464 State St. we deliver arts degree from Yale University. He was awarded his doctorate from the Institute of Fine Arts, New York Univer- sity. He also studied at the University of Paris Institute of 'Art and Archaeology as a Fulbright scholar and holds a certificate of museum studies from the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Robbins was director of the Fogg Art Museum from 1971 to 1974, at which time he also taught in the department of Fine Arts at Harvard and served as chairman of the University Committee on Film Studies. Before 1971, Robbins was director of the Musewn of Art, Rhode Island School of Design; assistant curator of the So-loman R. Guggenheim MtJ.Seum, and research assistant to .the chief curator at the National Gallery, Washington. He has been Clark Professor at Williams College, research professor at Dart- mouth College, and visiting professor at Brown, Yale, and Dartmouth. In addition, he has served as consultant for the New York State Museum, Whitney Museum of American Art, the Houston Museum of Fine Arts, and for the art department of Rutgers, Dalhousie, and Northwestern universities. Currently, Robbins is a trustee of the American Federation of Arts and a· member of tl)e Advisory Board , of the Canadian Center for Architecture in Montreal, a member of the Board of Visitors of the Program in American and New England Studies at Boston University, and a member of the Century Association and the American Associations of Museums. He has been a · · National Endowment of the Humanities Senior ·Fellow and a . Guggenheim Fello.w. As an original member of the National Endowment of . the Arts museum program, Robbins was instrumental in . designing several of the programs that now receive government support. Robbins is marrieQ to the former Eugenia Scandrett, and the couple has two daughters: Juliette, age 15; and Miranda, age 9. They came to Schenec- tady from Braintree, Vt., where they own a farm. Schenectady 374-aaa Addressers wanted immediately!· Work at home - no experience necessary • exc-ellent payl Write: National Service 9041 Man,sfield Suite 2004 Shreveport, Louisiana 71118 _/ . ~~

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, October 9, 198Q art .. - . . • ' L • L \ • • The Subiect Is Jeans By LISA LIVSHIN I was at a party recently when the subject of designer jeans ·came up. This is not an unusua'l conversation piece, considering that you can't pick up a magazine, or turn on a T.V. witheut seeing men and women with perfect derrieres gyrating to music in their Sassons, Vanderbilts, Jordaches, Sergio Valentis. Calvin Kleins, or what have YOI;l. There are oh-so-many names to choose from. What many of us seem. to forget, is that jeans have always created dilemmas for us. But in the past our choices were not as widely advertised as they are today . . . Step into your past ... Should you buy the Levis or the Lees? ( P_erish the thought of Wranglers ... we all know the type that STILL wear wranglers.) Straight legged, boot legged or flair legged'! (FLAIRS? We dismissed those with bell bottoms) What color stitching should you buy? Army style,. Carpenter style or overalls'? Sweet-oRR or Smith? Flap pockets (with buttons?) or just plain pockets? The orange Levi label or the white one? Pre-washed and faded or un- washed dark blue denim? (How do .people EVER break those in? Parents, carpenters, far- mers, electricians, and nerds buy unwashed jeans.) Should you buy a $4.00 packet of that disguised clorox stuff that fades and softe!ls your jeans in just one wash't (Sure, it might work, but the inside of the washing machine will be blue for 2 months.} Do they still make the low, student cut in your size or have you outgrown them? Do you roll them up and make cuffs or hem them? · We have always and probably will always go through jean trends. Read on . . . you just might recognize yourself ... Do you remember your cherished· pair of patched jeans, the ones that one or both parents threatened to throw out next time you LEFT THEM BEHIND in the house'? Remember how eventually the jeans were more .patches than denim? Remember when mom called the inevitable patch on the crotch \DISGUSTING'''? Some guys had leather .patches, and most everyone had a friend 'always a friend:..an artsy one) who embroidered a cute, pastel design on the .thigh of their jeans. Every girl had a recycled jean skirt - split down the middle and filled in. with tapestry patches. (it was a skirt but it always kind of looked like a pair of jeans.'.') Enough. The point is - we've always been somewhat .par- ticular about our jeans. All this fuss now about a name label r which hikes the price up $20) is awfully silly. For example - I was in a disco recently and the bouncer at the door was checking .for I. D.'s . . . and something else. The sign on the door said \Designer Jeans Only\. As I approached him, he suspiciously asked, ''Are those designer jeans?\ \Naturally\, I answered, \Would you like to check my rearend for a label?\ Louisa Chase Attention Rock 'n Rollers! The Henry Paul Band \ will be perfo·rmiing at the Memorial .Chapel · on October 17. Tickets now on sa.le in Carnegie Hall every afternoon Men's Glee Club News By GARY TURER The illustrious Union College Men's Club is back again this fall, even bigger and better than last year. They have a very busy fall season, beginning with a concert on Homecoming Weekend. In this concert, which w.ill be on Saturday, October 18, at 8:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel, the Men's Glee Club will combine with the ever improving Union College Women's Glee Club to perform \Gershwin and Porter on Love\. This promises to be a very enjoyable performance as both groups are working very hard at present. In addition to this concert the \Eliphalets\, a smal:~roup of singers from the Men's Glee Club will be singing throughout the weekend at various locations on campus. For in- stance, they will be singing the Alma Mater at the football game and at Chet Arthur's 150th birthday reception in front of his statue ( 5: 15 p.m., Satur- day). The Eliphalets are known by all to be a very musical and talented group. On November 7-8 the men will travel to Simmons College in Boston, Mass. to .sing \The Seasons\ by Joseph Haydn, with the Simmons College Glee Club. This will be the first time in recent years that Union College will be singing with Simmons College .in concert. On the weekend of Ngvember 22-23 the Union College Men's Glee Club will be the host to the Smith College Glee Club. Together they will perform ''Quare Fremuerant'', by De Laande, in Memorial Chapel. Smith College is known to be one of the finest Women's Glee Clubs in the- entire country. They have performed several times with the Union men in recent years. Two weeks later, on the weekend of December 6-7, the Union men will travel to Nor- thampton, Mass.,. to sing again with the Smith College Glee Club. This will be the final perfonnance of the Men's Glee Club in a very busy f~ll season and will surely be one of the best of the year. . culture Louisa Chase Louisa Chase, internationally exhibited .painter and teacher, will discuss her work and her artistic philosophy at tJnion College's Carnegie Hall, Schenectady,. on Thursday, October 9, at 7 :30 .p.m. The program is one in a series of slides~lectures by prominent visual artists sponsored by Art Resources Open to Women !AROW). A donation is requested. For further information, call AROW at (518) 346-5101. AudJtions. EBA Contemporary Dance Theater,,a professional daree- theater company in Albany, New York will hold auditions for men as company members and apprentices on Saturday, October 18, 1980 at 2: 00 p.m. at the Chapter House Theater, corner of Lark & Hudson Avenue in Albany. Positions are salaried with co:ritract. Responsibilities include re·hearsal, performance, teaching. Applicants should have a solid background in the performing and teaching of dance with theater experience as . well. Resumes may be sent or brought to the auditions. For information about auditions, call (518) 465-9916 or write: EBA, 351 Hudson Avenue, Albany, New York 12210. Happy Birthday! Jackson Browne, John Lennon and John Entwistle ENGINEERS· GO FULL SPEED Area c·alen.dar Electric Boat is the world's foremost designer and builder of nuclear submarines- one of the great engineering challenges of this century. With a $3 billion backlog and long-term contracts. Electric Boat offers career opportunities in nearly every engineering discipline (including electrical. mechanical. civil, etc.), top pay and benefits. long-rang(i) stability and an unmatched lifestyle on the southern New England seacoast. GENERAL. DYNAMICS Electric Boat Division The Best ShipbUI!dmg Team in America Groton CT 06340 Electric Boat Division will be interviewing on cam on October 30, 1980. Informative slide. presentation questio[ls.and answer period to be held on the eveni of October 15. Refreshments will be served. Please contact the Placement Office for time and place. LOST KITTENI ARTS October 11-Ella Fitzgerald will give a ·gala concert per- formance at 8:30 p.m. in the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall. For further informat'fon, call 273-0038. · October 16--The Junior College of Albany will host a cartoon presentation by \Duffy well~known car- toonist. The presentation will take place at the Campus Center from 10· a.m. to 3 p.m. For more information, call 270- 2344. CONCERTS October 13--The Polish Chamber Orchestra will present the first concert in the Schenectady Museum-Union College International Festival of Chamber Music series for 1980-81. This concert will begin at 8 p.m. . in the Union College Memor.ial 1 Chapel. _ 8 week old Female Tiger Cat Contact: Ted, AD Phi 382-9688 FILMS October 13--Russell Sage College will present the film '.'Simon\ starring Alan Arkin. The film will be shown at the Schacht Fine Arts Center at 7 and 9:30 p.m. October 16-·The Albany Public pbrary will show the popular musical film \Court Jester\ starring Danny Kaye and Glynnis Johns. The film will be shown at 369 New Scotland Avenue at 1:30 p.m. October 16--Tbe Albany Public Library will present the French film, \Stolen Kisses.\ · The film, with English subtitles, will be shown at 8 p.m. at 161 Washington Avenue. For more information, call 449-3380. October 17--The Albany Public Library will present the Japanese film, \Odd Obsession.'' The film with English subtitles, will be shown at 16.l Washington Avenue. For more information call 449-3380. TOUR· October 11--The Hudson- Mohawk Industrial Gateway is offerijg a tour of Uakwood Cem_etery in Troy. Participants should assemble at the Garden Earl Crematorium at 1 p.m. For reservations call, 274-5267. • - BUI Th comi nesd thos« An volm Mich Stud4 Pr back Dipl1 tourt meet or Tt Hall, 2519. AU of th1 4:00 Stude tend. To th Th~ would parti( There Orien Octob Loun~ the s camp1 Sigm::i We' meetil Pres: I n wood~ roughl premi1 profe~ perier Reyno lbefor1 19.

BULLETlN BOAR:O There will be a women's commission meeting on Wed\ nesday, Oct. 22 at 12:30 a.m. All those interested may attend. Anyone interested ·in doing volunteer work-please contact Michael ·Andolina in Office of Student Affairs or call 6061. Pre-Meas! Need practice backstabbing? Join When Diplomacy Fails Diplomacy· tournament. . Come to out meetings-iJn Friday, Saturday or Tuesday nights in Carnegie Hall, or leave a note for Box 2519. Attention: The next meeting of the Garnet staff will :be at 4:00 on Monday the 13th· in· Student Activities. Please at- tend. To the Women of Union: The Panhellenic CcQ.Jtcil\ would like to invite you to . participate in rush this fall .. There will be an informal : Orientation meeting on Sunday, October 25 at 4:00 in Strauss Lounge for all girls interested in • the sororities presently on ' campus, Delta Gamma and ·. Sigma Delta Tau. . We're looking forward to '• meeting you! Linda McAllester : President, Panhellenic Council • I need someone to paint · . wood~ork in my home for • roughly ten hours. I'll pay a premium for someone who has professional painting ex- perience. Please call Prof. Reynolds at 370-6283 or 370-3998 lbefore·9:30 p.m.). \ CHtJcK\E 0 . )ct•; ~RDIN u·•• ~l~DAY. FREE OONOORDIIEN\Sl8 October 9, 1980 clas&ifiel)s An Ad Hoc conunittee to consider the · tenu.rabllity of Professor William Zwicker of the mathematics department has been formed. Anyone having informat~on that may be useful to the committee in its deliberation is invited to contact Professor C.F. Weick, Chemistry Department, Room S2!6, Science- & Engineering Center: A.pplications are now available .for the New York State Assembly Intern Programs. The- inte.rnships, which run from January to May, require a minimum of 30 hours of work per week in the State Assembly in .Alb~ny. Students must be. highly motivated and committed to · taking on this rigorous position. More information and ap- plications may be obtained from Pat Matteo in the Placement and Career Resources Office. (Application deadline: October 22). Heinegg .of the Department of English. A.ll students, ·faculty and oth~rs who wish to con- tribute to this evaluation are urged to co:rnmllnicate with any member of the Committee, Professors Anton Warde, Alan Nelson, Alan Taylor, or Dwight Phaup, Chairman. The :Fencing Club meets on . . Monday and'Tlmrsday evenings at 8 p.m. in the Arts Building, Room 202. Garage .Sale--Friday & Saturday ,Oct. 10 & 11, 10-5. 1274 Ruffner Rd., Niskayuna, NY. Skiis, skates, pingpong table, bikes, tenn.is rackets,· books, plants, ftunituve., clothes, carriage, toys,. ·games, bric-a- brac, househ<>ld items, ett.- something f()r .all. · Did you· see what John Kolisch made this man do last year . . . he only: comes once a year. Don't rniss it! Social Committee p~O . . The following Resume · · ~ Sunday, Od 12-Rev. William Writing-Interviewing Works- Bour<;leau, Director of the hops still have space available. Albany Diaconate Program. Sign up in. the Placement and Career Resources Office. Resume Writing: Tues., Oct. 14. 4:00, Tech. majors; Tues., Oct. 21 4:00, Liberal Arts majors; Tues., Oct. 21 4:.00; Tech; Tues., Oct. 28 4:.00, Liberal Arts; Mon., Nov. 3 4:00, Tech; Mon., Nov. 10 4:00, Liberal Arts. Interviewing: Tues., Oct. 14 4:00, Liberal Arts; Tues., Oct. 164:00, Tech; Mon., Oct. 27 ~:00, Liberal Arts; Tues., Nov. 4 4:00, Tech; Tues., Nov. 11 4:00, Liberal Arts. An Ad Hoc committee has been convened to determine the . te~urab~lity of Prof. Peter 1 w our f-'ir~p\oa Evie 1\·ti£)11 er drives to campus each day from Guilderland !Rts. 20 and 155) and is interested in sharing , driving and-or expenses. Call her at the Annual Fund Off.ice, x-'6174, if you a11e interested in sharing the commute. Does your club have an an- nouncement to make? Don't do a mass mailing-use the new student new-sletter. Type or print your message and leave it in the box in student activities by Thursday at 5 p.m. The newsletter .will go ()Ut Friday afternoons. Need a place to live Winter and Spring terms? Comfortable 3-bedroom furnished apart- ment-f:Jat available for one or !wo~ rooEUTiates. Two blocks from campus, approx. $.95 per month including utilities. Call 372-3226. Any student who is an · engineering or science major and who has a Dean's List. average, is invited to rook into the possibility of applying for the 1981-82 E.T.H.-Union . Colleg.e Exchange Scholar 'opening in Zurich, Switzerland. This requkes a working knowledge of German fleet ures in all courses are normally in that language). Adequacy in German may, however, be achieved by two terms at Union ·College followed by a sununer Goethe Institute course in Germany (at the student's own expense). For information, see Prof. W. Martin inS 339 Science Center. Applications must he completed by Nov. 1, 1980. . Public Health officials say they are concrned because the rate of Rubella (German Measles), which has been linked to birth defects; has increased among those in the 20~ 40 yr. old age group. Students, staff and fac·ulty of child bearing age requesting ad- ditional information may stop by the Health Service between the hours of 1 p.m. and 5 p.m. every Saturday and Sunqay. Needed: 3 men an\d 3 women with an ear for music, a sense of theater, and some knowledge of either French, German or Italian for performance( s) and recording of ecLIPse; a com- position for speaking voices. See Prof. Dellario Arts 106, ext. 6202. Page 9 AU Engineering and Com- P.Uter Science students and professors are cordially invited .to attend a wine and cheese reception this Friday, Oct. 10; at 4:30p.m. in the Banquet Roem 1 by the Pub). Come mingle with classmates . and faculty! Sponsared by ASME:, IEEE, ASCE, SWE & ACM--your organizations. All French-speaking students and professors are C()rdially invited to ''La Table FratJCais\ this Tuesday at the Pub, 12:30. Wine will be provided. FOR_SALE For Sale: Epiphone six steel string folk guitar. with adj. bridge and neck tension. Excellent cond., case, capo, picks incl. $180 will dicker. Carl, 382-5432. For~ Sale: Caribou Moun- taineering dome tent, 2-3 man, zippered door, vents, fitted fly. New, never used, $250 a sacrifice. Call Carl at 382-5432. Status .... · Continued from pll~e 3_ strength of the European economic community already bears witness to my beliefs. Europe is now ready to stand alon·e. The countries. that we carefully nursed back to health after World War II have grown up. Perhaps the time has come for the U.S. to turo away from her paternal relationship with Europe. I am certain that the youth of Europe would feel much more comfortable working with the United States as oppgs~g Jo · wor}\ing for us. . ~ . ·: .· ': ·. ~~ .. \

Page 10 OONCORDIBNSI~,. Octobe?' 9, 1980 .._ ill c:: .._ ill ..J. c:: ill > ill - VJ >- .0 0 - 0 .c: a.. 6port Spi,kers MOving Up Sheila O'Donnell and Alicia Granlundgoupfortheblock By CORY LEWKOWICZ Paltz, they hadn't rea~ly played up to their potential. Vassar The Union College women's presented more of a challenge, volleyball team helped bring but the Union women were able their record up to 3-1 last to beat them, 15-8 and 15-5. They Wednesday, by defeating both were tied with Vassar at H'in New Paltz and Vassar. This was the first game, but· they began their second set of matches, hustling and eventually took the after having lost a difficult visiting team. match to West Point on Sep- - Barta felt that her team tember 23. played well against both The Dutchwomen defeated schools, and noted the success New Paltz first, with an \easy\ of the offensive plays. .The win (1'5-4; 15-9). Coach Barta Dutchwomen are adding a slew felt that although the team of new, more complex offensive played well in defeating New tactics to. their repertoire of skills, and have so far been successful in implementing them. Barta commented that the players were confident, . , relaxed, and felt good about themselves. Sophomore Natalie Stone hustl-ed exceptionally Well last Wednesd~y, and hit everything set to her. The Dutchwomen hosted LeMoyne last Monday, · and conquered the caJirt, 15~10, 15-6, and 15-5. Plattsburgh didn't show, so the Dutch women played three games against LeMoyne. Barta and the players feel good a bout their new offensive front and season. Their record is currently 3-1, ;:md they wilT face Williams and North Adams on the home court tonight at 7 p.m. Stickers Still Strong By KELLY LIESE many hard shots posed bY. Smith. any serious offensive threats by. Smith. Women-'s· Soccer The Dutchwomen upped their record to 5-0-1 after getting by Siena I 2-1) and tying Smith College (0-0) in hockey action this week. Senior link Lorin Neenan is credited with both goals as Union edged out Siena in the last minute of the game. Both teams were scoreless at the break, but Unionjumped out in front with an early second half goal only to be equalled by a Siena goal. Last minute heroics were in order as Neenan tapped in her second goal of the day, for a Union victory. Smith gave Union its toughest comp~tition of the season as the game ended in. a scoreless tie Friday afternoon. Smith dominated the first half eaq~.ing six penalty corners while Union had none. The tides turned in the second half as Union con- trolled most of the play, but were unable to penetrate Smith's defense. Union of- fensive standouts were links, Nancy Colt, Holly Howard, and Buthaina Shukri, who made aggressive tackles, effective flicks, and artful dodges. Earning the defensive honor was junior goalie Johanna Briggs who adroitly deflected Usually when regulation play ends in a stalemate, two 7% minute overtimes and a possible flickoff are played to decide the winner. Since this contest does not count towards the state qualifying cham- - pionship, the game ended in a deadlock. Overall, Union's aggression and skill prevented The J. V. opened their season F·riday losing to Smith (1-0) in a well fought battle. Coach Morrison felt they, did. a com- mendable job by holding the • experienced Smith team to one goal. Union is away at Russell Sage Saturday, October.ll, but returns home to host Vassar on Monday, October 13 at 4:00p.m. By FELIC.IA SALVACION In its primer season, the women's soccer team -is a remedy, but not a cure, for much needed women's sports.at Union. Coach John McNamara acknowledges this need, put points out that there is · a problem with · adeql!ate Women~s Cross C.ountry By WOMEN prospective women runners. beat Oneonta in their first dual WithDUTCHFEET This year more meets have meet, but the trip to Hamilton been scheduled; consequently~ cost them several losses. Competitive running has reached many plateaus lately; new mile marks, greater en· durance and ever faster women. Accordingly, Union has formed a full women's cross country team this year, providing strong incentive to keep the sport alive here. Union's cross country team had its first female member in . 1976. Coach Ted Bick has displayed much enthusiasm at having women join the team; however, the lack of com- . petitive college races for women greatly discouraged a greater number have joined However, in the same meet, the team. Union overshadowed St. The roster includes seniors Lawrence on the 3.25 mile Colleen Morris and Laura course. This leaves the women Kronk, juniors Audrey with a 2-1 record. Lewc~i~, Donn.a Morri~ and This past weekend, the team surpnsmg Tnsh Mot1arty, _ participated unofficially sophomores Joan O'Connor, Sue against Albany and Plattsburgh Stopera, and Polly Wheeler. State. Although the team lost to Theteam_misses Kim Vardakas both, Polly Wheeler and Joan ~~d Lon Branagh, who are O'Connor had exceptional m]ured. , races, as they finished fpurth The women s Team has and sixth respectively, out of a sho~n strong performances field of 20. The soggy 5km . agamst Oneonta State, course had a dramatic start Hamilton, St. Lawrence, and when Joan fell into a hidderi Albany State. The team easily ditch, tumbled, and was nearly trampled, but nevertheless Dutch Hollow Pub Specials regained her speed and position. Coach Bick exclaimed \That Joan is a real determined runner - a powerhouse,\ THURSDAY, Oct. 9 JEREMIAH WEED NIGHT All drinks made with Jeremiah Weed for $1.00 Chances to win T- Shirts, mirrors, and special grand prize FRIDAY, October 10 BUFFEr NIGHT 5:00-7:30 p.m. All the pizza (toppings) and salad you can eat Pitcher of beer or. carafe of wine with each meal. FOR ONLY $4.00 SATURDAY, October 1 1 BEEF & BREW 5:00-7:30 p.m. \\ Free salad bar, pitcher of beer or carafe of wine with every meal. EVERY TUESDAY • j Although the entire cross country team is officiaHy funded an one co-ed team, the women are assisted by Julius Barbanel. Julius encourages the girls saying \Albany wasn't that far ahead. You can beat them at The Capital District meet.\ Even men's te:am captain Jack Connors en- courages the women by telling them \Get out of the kitchen and run.'' The team's next race Is in Schenectady's Central Park for - City Tax • • • Continued from page 4 _ Officials and the six in- dependent fraternities is to. . establish legally that the college exercises.sufficient control over facilities. The innovation of the women's soccer team at Union has provided us with the access to another club-level sport. · At present, the team consists of about 25 players, from all areas on campus, some meeting each other for the 'first time. According to Coach McNamara · the girls are getting along much hetter than in the beginning of the season. It's interesting to note that at their first game some girls didn't know the names of other team members, but now the coach says he sees definite team unity. · With a 0-3 record, McNamara feels that the greatest weakness of the team is experience, and he says that it is obvious that Union is a new club. McNamara feels that the strengths of the team are in its players. Those with experience and skill seem · to carry the team along. . The game itself runs exactly like the men's team._ There are 45 minute halfs, with 11 players from each team on the field. The rules of the game differ with each referee. Some use high school rules and others use college rules. All in all, the women's soccer team 1s a club - sport at a club level. When asked how hard the girls practice, Coach McNamara said, \they work as hard as the men.\ McNamara stated that the team will be a club for two year~. In that time, the athletic department .will talk with some of the more experienced players, hearing their views on the future of the club. The coach hopes that- after two years the possibility of a varsity team will surface. The Capital District Meet, on Saturday, October 11. Come out and support the team. the six fraternities to qualify under the University of Rochester's possible precedent as. well as preserve their . autonomy. - Draft .beer 2 for 1, Most drinl<s 75c Riggi~s -Pizza . Field House HAPPY HOUR 9:30 .. 10:30 p.m. SATURDAY, October 1 8 VICfO RY VITII irS 5:00-s:oo p.m. . ' All you can eat baked turkey, glazed ham, variety of salads, vegetables and desserts. Adults $6.50 Under 12 $3.25 For reservations call the Dutch Hpllow Pub Office 37~~6051 - ~ .. Hot & Cold Sandwiches & Subs .. I 2155 Van Vronken Ave - 4 .minute walk.- Union . ' To Girli.ng Cehter Nott. St.· - ._j RIGGI'S Mohawk.C Bank Alexander St. -· . . RidiJ S: Foran met Bot greets Y<J to provo usually ~ cage wiU on his h bowled p His de washers, sewing rr as many. Bob's hm to 7:00, comes in couple of day. It is nc soaking f1 Sundayrn Monday,: calls abot stock roo1 taken for. is more tl Bob F thusiasm earned hi Dutchmru booster, h man behi1 Homecom When Uni would fir smoke wo vision irn would rel<J after the ~ cannon i Schenect1 Ha The Ur team spli Hartforc Saturday, ding Trinit losing to V The Du hi11dered b runner Ed several st Sophomore in the tearr oftheday v in a time o mile coursE Connor fini a time of Contois pla The key t Trinity was Joe Lom MacKienziE and fifth despite bei1 averted. a1 when he < runners in MacKienzie the team's ·

OONOORDIENSIS~ October 9, 1980 Page 11 5porte· . '. . : . ' ' . ; . ·- • - • • • • ' ' • • • ' ' '' \ • ' • ' •• .>' Silver Anniversary For anyone who knows or has met Bob Ridings, he always greets you with a catchy :phrase to provoke a reaction. Bob is usually seen in the equipment cage with a Union cap sideways on his head, smoking a deep bowled pipe: · ment,. which was prevwusly used to start yacht races. Bob loved the gimmick, .and mounted it en his son's tractor toy, and · used it for norneco:ming games since. When the cannon. was copped by an RPI £raternity last year, Bobwo11ld not rest until it was returned. After a near brawl in the struggle for the cannon, we won it hack. where he played soccer, basketball, and track at Rochester School for the Deaf. From high school, Bob worked in a pet shop with his uncle, before beginning work at . West .Cafeteria in 1945. He balanced the books and also ... worked maintenance before w c settling in as head of the stock ~ room in 1955. From then on he ...J has :been the legendary person ~ working in the basement of the - ~ Alumni Gym. <n His domain has three big washers, two dryers, and a sewing machine which prepare as many as ten teams a season. Bob'shours are from·9:30 a.n1. to 7:00, but many tinles he comes in early and tacks on a couple of hours at the end'of.the day. At Homecoming games from 1956l.Uitil a few years 9go, Bob dress~d as a '\'Dutchman\ outfitted in garnet pantaloons, jacket, and cap with a yellow wig. It is obvious Bob enjoys his >- work and loves to be around .c 0 people. He does not like people 0 It is not unusual to see Bob soaking football uniforms early Sunday morning, his day off. On Monday, Bob gets at least a few calls about complications in the stock room. Bob's work is often taken for granted; few realize it is more than a full time job. When Jim Garcia offered to make him a new ''Dutchman\ suit, and called his wife ~for some .measurements, Mrs. Riding replied to the effect that, \For twenty years my kids didn't .l!ave a father; they had a Dutchnlan.'' Needless to say, the measurement was never given, but his many years dressed as a \Dutchman\ will be remembered by many. to say goodbye, but l'ather, \see ([ . you Iater.\ When asked if the Bob Ridings job gets aggravating at times, he replied, \Of all the hear- taches you get, it makes it all seem worthwhile when they come back to say hello. People who graduated 10..15 years ago the interview was over, he stop down to see me.\ requested, \Don't build me up The modest Bob Riding would teo much ... the credit goes to rather keep a low profile. Wh~n the teams.\ · Bob Ridings' great en- thusiasm for sports at Union earned him the title of \The Dutchman\. As Union's biggest booster, he-is best known as the man behind the cannon at the Homecoming football games. When Union woUld score, Bob would fire the cannon,. anrl smoke would obscure him from vision immediately; then he would reload for the conver-sion after the TD. Bob obtained the cannon in 1965 from th-e Schenectady Police I>epart- Athlete of the Week Bob feels people perform better when they can laugh before a game or event. Just the other day, he went to the ex- treme of dressing in a kilt and the rest of the field hockey outfit, the11 went up to the girls' game with a mop over his head. Bob's en()rmous interest in sports began in high school / Harriers Split The Union cross-country team split a dual meet in Hartford, Connectie ut, Saturday, topping hormstan- ding Trinity College 26-29, while losing to Williams 18-43. The Dutchmen, who were hindered by the absence of top runner Ed Arnheiter, received several strong performances. Sophomore Adam Licht turned in the team's best performance of the day with a 4th place finish in a time of 26:13 over the five mile course. Team captain Jack Connor finished 8th overall with a time of 2~03 and Denny Contois placed lith in 27:31- The key to the close win over Trinity was the performances of Joe Londa . and Duncan MacKienzie, the team's folll'th and fifth runners. L()nda, despite being ill, competed and averted. an apparent defeat when he caught two Trinity runners in the last fifty yards. MacKienzie was a member of the team's top· five for the first tinle this season and turned in a person::~.J best. Paul Palasziewski also turned in a p.r. Palasziewski, who later admitted being \all gassed up\ for this meet, broke the 30 minute barrier for the first time. · At First, the Trinity coach claimed his team had won. After .examining the totals, it was discovered that the Trinity coach, v.h<> happened to be a math ,pr-ofessor, had added the scores wr()ng. Uni<m,. now 2-4 on the year, hosts the Capital District Championiihips this Saturday in Central Park. Union coach Ted Bick feels his Union team has a chance for second place in the five team meet, but doubts the Dutchmen will be able to beat Siena. \Siena has a scary team.\ Bick said, \In fact, they're the only team I know that is ready for Halloween all year l<mg.'~ / This week's Budweiser Athlete of the week is inside linebacker Michael Jenkins from Waterloo, Iowa. \Jenks\ has been a consistent football player for three years and is one of the leaders of the tenacious Dutchmen defense. J.enks performed very well in the first contest of the season and he culminated his talents in Unions first victory under Joe Wirth, against Colby. Some of Jenkins attributes are his quickness, agility, and intelligence and this together with his instinct for insanity makes him a virtuoso on the gridiron. Against Colby, Jenkins was a mainstay in a Union defensive effort, making an array of solo tackles as well as assisting on numerous others. The--key play of the game carne late in the ~ contest with Union holding a ~ slim 6-0 lead. A Colby runner ...J broke free and was scampering ~ down the sideline alone, but ~ Jenkins carne all the way from (J) his opposite linebacker spot and £ chased down the runner, 2 preventing a touchdown and _g saving the Union victory. a. Jenks also was responsible for a tally of solo and assisted tackles in the Dutchrnens tough loss to Hofstra. He was responsible for breaking up a key pass play during a Hofstra drive, allnost being awarded with an interruption. Along with his very visible talents,...J.enks provides a great deal of stability in the defensive AT 'THE RAT THUll 9 - CLOSE America's Only Canadian A /e Red Can 2 .. •1.00 For the lVtJfi·Aie Drinkers I CARLING ILACK LABEL 2- *1.00 FRI.' : 4·7 p.m. ·A tti1ude Readjustment Period Palls;t 25c l)rafts •1.00 Pitchers \ Athlete of the Week Mike Jenkins huddles, both physically and mentally. His mere presence is as intimidating to his own team as it is to his opponents. When notified of the honor, Mike just giggled and modestly quipped, \the win just made the trip that much more pleasant.\ Jenkins athletic ability comes as no surprise due to his earlier career at Waterloo High School. Jenkins fine athletic ability is also accompanied by out· standing academic prowess. Jenkins is also a brother at Chi Psi where he is very active and currently serves as steward. uFiat Flip Flies Straight\ Crispy Critters vs.--Utica Saturday, Oct. 11 at.JJtica Support your college Ultimate Team hy wotdting tlte ~ c- ~ > ~ toumoment on local r7. : :; --- Subscribe to CONCORDIENSIS Parents, Alumni, frienc;fs $10 yearly Clip the coupon below and return to Concordiensis, Box 2517, Union !=allege, Schenectady, NY 12308 --------------------------~------------------ 1 Name ................................................................................. ~............................................ : l Street................................................................................................................................ l l CitY ............................................................................... State ................................... Zip·· ....................... : 1 ____ \'\'----.----·-------'!\\'------------------.---~...!.

Page 12 OONOORDIENSIS, October 9~ 1980 6port6 '', . . ··: ' :' ' . . .· ' . . ,: ' ' .. ' ' ' : ~ . : ' ' ·:.. . ' '' '· ' . . ' _· : . . _. . ' ' '. . ' . ' . . . ·:' ~ ·. ' Football Wins Shutout Colby penalties. QB Dana Johnston looked superb throughout the eonte~t. hitting 9-t3 for 179 yards wpile running the option very well. His passing included a fifty yard strike to tight end Marc Marro which was called back as a result of a holding infraction. Tailback Bill Hutt- ner continued his fine play, scampering for a total of 48 vards. Freshman tailback Art Anderson also lookecl good, picking up 32 of his own. By ED LYNCH As the Dutchmen. rolled into Schenectady early Sunday morning they were enjoying a feeling of confidence and a certain sense of relief that the 18-hour journey to the thriving metropolis of Waterville, Mame, had not been m vain. The Dutchmen had just beaten the ( 'olbv Mules. Colbv ·has dominated the Dutchmen in recent years and probably had come t0 the point where they viewed Union as a sure win-a breather on an eight game schedule. Having this frame of mind :when playing Joe Wirth's ball club is a terrible mistake. Granted the Dut- chmen have not matured to the extent that they will blow the opposing team out of the stadium, but they will hang tm-1gh with anybody. The 6-0 score was not in- dicative of the much improved Union offense. They moved the ball almost at will gaining real estate inside the Colby 30 yard line five times, only to be stopped by unfortunate mistakes and needless The only score came early when the Dutchmen took over at their own 38. After freshman receiver Rich Katz hauled in Johnston's first pass for a gain of . 38 yards, the Dutchmen moved for a first down at the Colby 13. Huttner then took it to the ten. On second down, Johnston rolled to his right and fired to senior end, Henry Wright, as he cut across the middle for the score. Scott Johnston's attempted point after kick was unsuccessful as the snap from center was off the mark. Following the second half kickoff, Johnston drove the Dutchmen from their own 29 to Booters Falter After basking in the glory of knocking off two highly ranked opponents last week, the Dut- chmen boote.rs' three game win streak was rudely interrupted Wednesday by a less than fearsome Hamilton squad. Union had climbed to a number five ranking for the state's Division III soccer teams after early wins over Siena, Cortland and Army. Confidence was high and Hamilton was lightly regarded as a \breather\ fefore the game with Binghamton, the number three ranked team in the state. But the pushover pushed back. The Dutchmen were soundly beaten, 3-1, in a lackluster performance. Down 1.(Jathalftime, Union waited for a second half surge to get back into the game. The wait was in vain as the surge never came. Hamilton sneaked in two quick second half goals and the game was all over except for the shouting (by an ecstatic Hamilton team). Evan Krinick accounted for Union's sole tally with his third goal of the season. Saturday Binghamton, ranked both in the state and in the nation, visited Garis Field. The Dutchmen needed a strong showing to retain their own high rankings as well as to regain the high calibre of play which sustained them through their early victories. The desire returned, the talent came through and Union turned in a fine performance. But it wasn't enough. Binghamton escaped with a 2-1 victory although being thoroughly outplayed. Sterling performances were turned in by the Dutchmen defense, led by goalkeeper George Romas. Both Binghamton scores came off of fluke plays, the first goal ricocheting off a Union defender and the second sliding past a screened goalkeeper. Union continued to dominate play and eventually cracked the solid Binghamton defense. It was sophomore Beniie Zeifang connecting with fellow sophomore Andy Dreyer to give Union its only goal. Zeifang took the ball at midfield and after faking and feigning his way past the defenders, dished off a sharp pass to the onrushing Dreyer. Dreyer received the pass, decked the charging goalie and slammed the ball into the back of the nets. Although the Dutchmen kept the pressure on for the remainder of the game, they could not score again. As so often happens, the better team won the battle but lost the war. The difficult schedule con- tinues Wednesday for Union as they entertain Albany State, the number two ranked team in New York State's Division III. It would prove to be a strategic conlest for post-season play. On Saturday, local rivals RPI will take on the Dutchmen at 11 a.m. on Garis Field. SPORTS HAPPENINGS Oct. 9to0ct. 16 Varsity Football JV Football Varsity Soccer JV Soccer Field Hockey Women's Tennis Cross Country Volleyball Golf Oct. 11 vs. R PI 1 : 30 Oct. 10 at Williams 3:00 Oct. 11 vs. RPI11:1>0 Oct. 15 at Kings Point 3: 1>0 Oct. 10vs. RPI4:00 Oct. 11 at Russell Sage A&B 1:00 Oct. 13vs. Vassar 4:00 Oct.l5vs. RPI (B) 3:45 Oct. 16vs. Skidmore A & B 3:30 Oct. 10 at Hartwick 3:00 Oct. 11 at Albany 11:00 Oct. 13 vs. VasS'ar 4: 00 Oct. 15vs. RPI 3:30 Oct. 11 Capital District 12:00 at Central Park Oct. lSvs. Middlebury 3:00 Oct. 9 vs. Williams, North Adams 7:00 Oct. 13 at RPI vs. Siena, RPI 7:00 Oct. 14 at Albany vs. Utica, Albany 7:00 _ Oct. lOatMiddlebury the Colby 11. with a series ot sprintout passes and quick option plays. However, it was at the eleven that a hol'ding penalty and a sack halted the drive. Union again marched deep into Colby territory only to be set back by consecutive motion penalties. As the final seconds ticked away, the Dt~tchtnen were knocking on the door. Their main concern at this .,_.2,.,. ',? point, however, was to run out ,r, the clock. At the buzzer, the \ · ~ ··::9 Dutchmen found themselves at 11 or; the Colby four yard line. ~ '!\:_ ,:-. Coach Wirth must be ~ f' ;-; :'/ , somewhat perturbed at the· 3 ~:~\' · team's inability to finish any of E \ the drives that they had o developed. At the same time, he !- must be impressed with their ability to move the hall ,e especially against Colby which 0 has a big · and particularly if strong defensive unit One that includes 24 players who bench press over 333 pounds, which is, very unusual for any team. Billy Huttner fields punt The emergence of the fresh- man backs has had much to do with Union's improved ef- fensive showing. The key to success, however, lies in the unheralded five who labor in the trenches; and this Dutchmen offensive line has really done the job. Mike Dana (210 lbs.) and Chip Symington (235) have been tough and consistent while blowing gaping holes on the right side. On the left, junior Wally Lutz (220) and freshman Scott Johnston ( 225) (Dana's brother) have been switching off at guard and left tackle bas been shared by two freshmen, Tom Quirk (240) and Greg Duczynski (200). The unit is centered arom1d co-captain Bill Egan (210). Th.e senior center from Norwood, Mass., who has recovered very well from knee surgery, has been the leader and stabilizing influence on the offensive line. Egan sees the play of the offensive line as ''the major improvement this year .. . all have really come around. Mike (Dana) and Chip Men's Tennis (SymingtoR) have been just super. Wally Lutz has done a really fine job and the freshmen have played much better than could be expected ... we have been moving people out and have given Dana Johnston time to 'throw; this ~has been the key to our success in moving the football.'' The Dutchmen defense continued to be unyielding, allowing Celby only 60 yards rushing in 39 attempts. Senior Mark Palomba was moved from tackle to middle guard to fill in for the injured Weldon Turner. Palomba did a super job in tying up the middle enabling lineb.ackersCarmen Audino and Mike Jenkins to make a pleth()ra of tackles. Freshman T()Irl Plungis, who took Palomba's spot, did a fine day's work and. in time is ex- pected to become a quality defensive tackl~. The secondary for all intents and purposes negated the woeful Colby aerial attack. Peter Uerbert made a key interception in the closiilg minutes ensuring the Union victory. This week the Engineers from RPI travel to Alexander Field. Although the Engin~ers are a much improved ball club, the Dutchmen .should win on Saturday. 'They will have to be very careful, however, not to look past R,PI to next week when they face a very tough Trinity team on Homecoming Weekend. If this happens the Dutchmen could · easily find themselves losers. My guess is that -it will not. Coach Wirth knows that RPI ( 2·1) will be emotionally sky high. He'll have the troops ready physically and menta1ly to win their second game of the year. ExtraPoint: Sophomore John Scotto was named to the week!Y ECAC All-Star team for his performance in the Dutchmen's opening 17-15 loss to Hofstra. The 6'4\ 205 p()under had six tackles and two interceptions, including one that set up Union's first touchdown. Contend In Tourney ByS.BOVIER On Sept. 26, the Union College Men's Tennis Team was invited to participate in the 4th Annual Great Dane Tennis Tournament hosted by Albany State University. This tournament was graced with the presence of such great Eastern tennis powers as Clark University, Concordia College, Iona College, Williams College- -and the University of Rochester. The Union team, though coachless and not well-prepared for their short fall season, eagerly accepted the challenge. Led by Captain and first singles player Barry Rosenberg, the team travelled to Albany. With inspired play and the help of freshmen Josh Antiles and Dave Katz, the Union team managed to come away with four out of six Singles victories. At third singles, returning sophomore Steve Eskenasi won a strong first round match, 6-3, 6-2, as he moved his heavier opponent skillfully around the court. Meanwhile, at fourth singles, the most powerful member of the tennis team, Dave Patalita, came up with a masterful 7-5, 6·4 victory over a strong Stony Brook opponent. Both players, however, lost close second rolllld matches. The bright part()£ the day saw freshman Josh Antiles score a surprising 6-3, 6-2 victory over his opponent from Concordia College. Antil~s seemed in control of the match all the way, · as he took adval'ltage of the pace that his opponent gave him and used his powerful ground strokes to win the match. The other new face on this year's Union squad was Dave Katz, from Long Island. Despire a brief loss of concentration, Katz held on to win th.ematch 6-4, 6-3. At first singles, Barry Rosenberg met the first seed and winner of last year's tournament, Alton Borges of Brazil. Rosenberg, a product of Great Neck North H.S., managed to stay close throughout the ,entire match, losing 4 games at 3-all (no add scoring being Employed), but lost 6-2, 6-2. 'Meanwhile, at second singles,. Tom Lestina, the team's best conditioned athlete, lost a dose match to a tough St. Michaels opponent, 6- 3, 6-3. In doubles '!)lay, Rosenberg agairt drew the first seed in the tournament, as he and Steve Eskenasi played two tough players from Clark University and lost in three sets. At second doubles, Lestina and Patalita also lost a close three-set match to two experienced RP A players. Meanwhile, junior Stu Bober joined Josh AntHes at third doubles. They also drew the first seeds of the tour- nament. In a tough match in which Antiles was virtually unstoppable, he and Bober went down in a dramatic 6-2, 7 ~5 loss to Billy Postal (a ranked UST A player) and Roy Huberman of Clark University. The tennis team should be congratulated on their excellent 'level of play in this tournament, considering the lack of time they had to prepare. The sprmg season promises to be a winning one with the return of last year's standouts, Barry Rosenberg, Tom Lestina, Steve Eskenasi, and Dave Patalita, and familiar faces Howard \Stocks\ Brodsky and Stu Bober. With the addition of new freshmen Josh AntHes and Dave Katz, and tbe return of last year's successful coach, Al Bagnoli, the tennis team will look to improve. last spring's winning record of 6-5. Af1 argu as· tl grou weat: This Supe1 the l gamE Fu prox came Vice Adm \exis and VI of Tr ThE adjac will signif Field. repos: Alexa compl The is ph~ Sakal~ sees a renov~ The Athie prog1 Ur E1 \Uni one of when Ivies-~ college a self comple ''You classro YOUWOJ fellow content into ge profesf! Thes• from T Guide posedl~ Union compli.J which i pans a: Yale, n jectivit\ it says really rejects minute preptof Has UJ college pectati< Desp backgr< are no1

I , ' OCtober 16, 1980 Volum·e 110, Number iS Athletic Field Renovation Set For November By ALAN WHITE and SCO'M ADAMS After three years of stalling, arguing and debating, it looks as· though the Union College grounds wiH bear an all- weather synthetic turf field. This new field, of Astro or Supertutf, should be ready for the Dutchmen's first .football game af the 1981 season. Fupding for the ap- proximately $700,000 project came from what John Hauser, Vice President for Finance and Admin is trati on, termed \existing college resources, '' and was approved by the Board of Trustees this past June. The site· of this field will be adjacent to Achilles Rink, and will cover· Daley and a significant portion of Alexander Field. Future plans involve the repositioning and renovation of Alexander Field next to the new complex. The constraction of this field is phase two of what Richard Sakala, athletic direction here, sees as a five·phase-program to renovate the outdoor facilities. The first phas~ was the renovation of Garis Field; in- stalled were: new Sfld, better drainage, sprinkler system, fencing, and a scoreboard. \That gives us a fine natural turf facility,\ said Sa:kala. What Sakala sees as phase three involves a 400 meter track surrot.Jnding the field. new lighting on the field, and _ stadium stands with a 3,000 seat capacity. The Buildings and Grounds Committee will go before tl::le Board of Trustees this weekend in an effQrt to get approved funding for \phase three\. Action by the Board is possible, but not certain this weekend. If and when the track is completed, it will bring the track team horne. The track team has been holding home meets at Schenectaliy Com- munity College because of the condition and unusual curying of the campus track, which rtms around Alexander Field. Still to be decided are the type of surface the track would have and whether it would be six or eight laneS; the determining · factors will be the prices. Chuck James, track coach, said he Athletic Director, Richard Sakala plan-s five-ph(lse renovation program for otJtdoor athletic facilities here. Union: Alexander Field will be r.esodded with .artificial turf for the start of the 1981 season. would perfer Rubaturf because of its better drainage and the cushioning that would eliminate the n~d for shin splints, but he added it is more expensive. Though James said, \I would be comfortable with a six lane track,\ he pointed out that the school could not host NCAA track and field meets without an eight·lane track. James feels that with the iarge number of people rtmning these days, a facility like this \would be used night and day.\ Because of the heavy usage the new field will be getting, said Sakala the field surface must be artificial. Whether it is Astra Turf or Superturf depends on the biddings of the suppliers. The field will be large enough to be used by all competative and Intramural sports. Joe Wirth, football coach, said of the field, \I'm very excited about this new field. It will be a plus to the campus, and will be profitable to the whole student body. It will also be an attraction to potential incoming students. It's an all weather, all sports fadlity that has· been long overdue. This year when it rains. it could be bad news for sports scheduled that day, but starting next year rain will be no problem.\ Scott Johnston, offensive guard for the Dutchmen football team, is looking forward to playing on the artificial turf, \because it's a lot quicker. It will probably also attract a better student-athlete. Thus, we can upgrade our program, and become more than just com- petitive.\ Halfback, Billy Huttner feels, \It will be an interesting change. I've heard about all the injuries on Astroturf, but on the other hand, it will help me as a back, because turf is a quicker surface than grass.\ Sa.kala sees the renovation of the remainder of Alexander Field as phase four, because, he said \we can't do without both fields.\ Phase four also in- cludes moving Daley's present lights to Alexander. Then teams can switch back and forth from natural' to artificial turf, which, Sakala feels, will be good for their ankles and knees. Ellen Jetto, Assistant Dean of Admissions, said of the 1athletic fields, \I don't think that ad- missions has suffered because of the facilities as they are, but the improved facilities will make it easier to talk about the Athletic department and its facilities in a positive way. It will also improve the ability to market the College. Any im- provement to the college, athletic or otherwise, aids in the attracting of quality appJicants Continued on page 3 Everyone's First Choice? By ANNE RUTH \Union has traditionally been one of the schools peop-le go to when they apply to tbe Ivies-and don't get in. The college, therefore, suffers from a self inflicted inferiority complex. ''You'll learn much in the classrooms there, unfortunately you won't learn mgch from your fellow students. Most are content to direct all their energy into getting into graduate and professional schools.\ These excerpts about Union from The Yale Press Insider's Guide to the Colleges, sup- posedly written in part by a Union infor·mc:mt, is hardly complimentary. The quotation which is compiled at Yale and pans almost every school but Yale, may lack a sense of ob- jectivity. Is there truth in what it says? Are Union students really frustrated Ivy league rejects who'd transfer in a minute? Are we too preprofessional and narrow? Has Union as a liberal arts college satisfied our ex- pectations? Despite claims that the backgrounds of Union students are not diverse, opinions on these questions certainly are. Upon questioning students it is apparent that there are in- deed disappointed Ivy league rejects among us who wish they were elsewhere. One student commented, \I never expected to come to Union. It was my safety. And even though I've been here two years I still have the thought in the back of my mind that I could do better.\ Another former Ivy league aspirant claimea that \I was told not to expect much from Union, I guess you could say it has fulfilled that expectation.\ Contrary to the \Insidf?rs Guide,\ however, the majority of students questioned indicated that for a variety of reasons Union was their first choice of a choice among several schools. \Union was my first choice because of its curriculum. I wanted to learn something practical. It's a small school with technological advantages,\ said one .student. Another revealed, \I chose Union from among those other schools and it has surpassed all my ex- pectations ! '' other students noted: \It offered a lot of courses and options. I liked that because I came out of high school with no set idea for a major\. \The small student faculty ratio provides a good rapport and education for students. That's why I came and it's why I'm staying.\ . Many of the students cited the reputation of a particular department or program such as engineering or six-year med as their reason for choosing Union. Some ·\first choicers, \ however, were not as en- thusiastic, and when asked if Union had fulfilled their ex- pectations they responded negatively. \I came here for a liberal arts education and I found it deficient in too many areas. So many seniors told me I was in the wrong place for liberal arts. If they're going to advertise this as a liberal arts school, they should improve many areas: arts, sociology, etc. Look where all the money has gone.\ Another student noted \It's a well rounded school for_ engineers and preprofessionals because they just want a taste of humanities and arts and social sciences. But for students majoring in those fields there could be more depth.\ Many of the students Continued on page· 3 Sophomores Mike McGrath (left) and Mike Zanto appear to like being students here.

Page 2 OONOOBDIBNSIS} October 16} 1980 _ Blue Skies No More! EDITORIAL On Homecoming When College alurnnl' return this weekend for Homecoming, they'll be sure to notice a number of physical changes around. the campus. As this week began, for instance, excavations for insulation of heating pipes had Library Plaza looking like a minefield. And renovations of Old Gym Hall, now scheduled to be completed by Christmas, have gutted that building, leaving it, for now, a shell of its former self. Alumni may also ·this weekend hear that the long- promised improvements of Union's athletic fields have finally been funded and approved, and that work will begin on. combining and resodding Daley and Alexander fields with arU:ficlal turf after the end of this football season, in November. (See story, page one.) After many uncertain and capriCious weeks at our beloved Union, reality is about to be levied upon our unsuspecting heads! The tilne has finally come when the administration can no longer expect us to believe the quibbling excuses they have been handing us concerning the construction on campus. Through a strange fluke of fortune, the truth behind the trenches came to me last week. I was walking near Carnegie Hall after a late night soccer game and my ever-perspicious eyes discovered the forms of two men in trench coats; I immediately made the con- nection between their coats and the .construction. While walking be a NATO command station. Even as you read this bit of literary magnificance, you are being hardened so that you may survive the hardships of war. That is why there is no heat in the dorms or hot water for the showers. We are being con, ditioned. Even the ''Food Czar\ has not gone unaffected; the Pentagon has asked Angelo to raise the quality of our food so that we will not notice when we go on C-rations. My recommendation is that Union not overreact to this situation. Against such a force as the Pentagon, we can do very little. Perhaps we would be best advised to prepare fnentally .for what could await us in the very near future. nonchalently by ( sneaking up behind a tree) I discovered that they were more ominous than they seemed. They were top men from the Air Force! I harkened ta hear such plans as would even .shake the fearless • heart of a Union student. The MX Missile system proposed .for the southwest is being laid into place right within the gates of Union! Now the picture is clear. Did you wonder wily the alumni of Union have done nothing to save their beloved Nott Memorial? Only the :Pentagon could stop them. Did you ever wonder Why Old Gym Hall was really renovated and renamed? The clue is in the name: (General) Stanly Beckett Hall! It will soon This action is to be applauded. Whlle money for projects of thit! sort is always tight, it seems to us that upgrading Union's outdoor athletic facU!tles will not Freshman :Persp· ective CCJntinued on page 12 only bring them .in line with the qur Jity of the indoor arenas here--Achilles Rink and Memorial Fieldhouse-- c . Of A A u· . but wm also play a major role 1n attracting future · ommg. . ... . .g· .· e ·.. t • · lllOD students. Watching Union fall sports· teams perform on well- By ROBERTA RUBINSTEIN · maintained fields should also add to the enjoyment of future homecomings--which should make a difference Four weeks into the year. and to all present students in just a few years, when they just beginning to understand i what we're doing here-here at have become alumn · Union College. Eight weeks ago Sporting events, like this weekend's football game it was just an abstract place against Trinity, are always a highlight of the that existed somewhere in our Homecoming weekend. The football game, for minds; now it's home. Now we example, provides an opportunity for undergraduates can't afford to forget how real it and. alumni to get together, at tailgate parties and is. Having survived our first barbecues prior to the game, in the stands during the \college exam\ and wondering contest, and afterward, at cocktail parties sponsored how we're ever going to survive ·four more years of anxiety, we Hy fraternities, sororities and other social move on through what we're organizations. told will be \The Best Four Homecoming is a time to renew old acquaintances-- . Years of Our Lives.\ be they. from long ago or as recent as last June's It's hard to understand why graduation. And this should remind us that it's the these years are envied by so P eople who were and are a part of the College com- many. The pressures that we · are now facing seem to be munity that make Union a special place--the kind of amongst those that are the most place hundreds of graduates wlll return to this devastating we have seen yet. weekend for\Homecomtng 1980. . With deadlines to meet, mid- .-----------------------. · terms, finals and most of all the Subscribe to CONCORDIENSIS · Parents, Alumni, Friends $10 Yearly st\andards that we feel we have to live up to, every second of our day ta:kes on new importance. These responsibilities are, without question, ones we all have to comply with. But these are the extent of our obligations. Beyond this there is little we have to put up with. These next few years are the stepping stones in our climb mwards success. We have the best of both worlds here, sheltered from so many of the hardships that will face ils in the future. Safe and Secure within the gates of this microcosm called Union, obliwious to the world outside for this is .our world;...our entire existence. Union, and college in general, gives us a sense of freedom. Even with all the, respon- sibilities we have, we manage to find time to do all the things · we've been wanting to do for so long. Forcing ourselves to deal wisely with this newly found \freedom\ is what is difficult. The transition from dependence to · independence and from restriction to freedom is not an easy one to .get used to. Finding a working median between just how much studying and just how much partying we should do takes. a great deal of ex:- perimentahon. Experiment- ation has it's rewards and penalties alike. We have time to make the necessary changes in our study habits and our ability to say no. After doing this, all we have to accomplish is to find time to sleep, and here weare at this stage. Four weeks into \The Best Four Years of. Our ' Clip the coupon below and return to Con.coriensis~ Box 2517, Union ~ollege, Sche!lectady, NY 12308 Freshman Rules: 1933 r----------~---------~ , I I Name· \' I I I I I I Street I I I I I Ia~ I I I I I I State . Zip · t L-~~---------~-----~-~ Those who attended Union some 50 years ago know that the college has changed drastically since those days of \The Way We Were.\ Back in the thirties, Union's enrollment was all male and less than half of today's 2,000 plus. Freshmen in 1933 also had to adhere to some pretty rigid standards. Here are some of that year's rules, from the 1933- 34 college handbook. Advice to Freshmen The transition from preparatory school to college is a difficult step for the average student, since he comes into an entirely new environment. A word of confidential advice, .. ' .. concoroten516 Editors-in-cmef News Editors Featw-es Editors Arts Editors Photo Editor Sports EditorS Women~~ Sports Editor .Sports Photo Editor Layout Editor Business Manager Subscriptions Editor Calendar Editor Staff Jim Davis, Julie Isgro Joe Maguire, Gale Vanore , Judi Chervenak, Fred Fender Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos RichSher Bill Curtin, Rich Hope Cory LewkoWicz · Tom Conway Rachel I. Mandel Lawrence C. Leavitt Ellen Burger Maria Manfredonia Claire Burchill, Charts Richards, Jeff Sciardino Photo Staff Michael G. Elkins, Steve Lerner, Charis Richards, CONCORDIENSJS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc.,ll Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United' States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College .Press Service. therefore, may- not be qmiss to the student who is entering. Remember, Freshmen -Learn the Freshman rules at once and follow them con- scientiQ.usly. Learn the Alma Mater and all songs an cheers at the earliest opportunity. Greet Union men at all times when meeting them on the campus or on the streets of the city. Attend student body meetings, class meetings, and all games. Do your own work and learn to do your own thinking. Golf stockings, sports shoes and a \U\ pipe do not make a college man. See to it that your daily work is not neglected for daily attire. Go out for athletics. The small college must develop more men than the large universities. Do not hesitate to ask advice of upperclassmen on any matters which are not clear to you. Don't \crab\. In doing so, you are only decreasing your popularity. Be on your toes all the time. . Look for opportunities and take ' advantage of them. If you think you are unjustly, treated make your grievances. known to the Student Council. Do not commit any in-. discretions which will reflect on 1 • the good name of the college. You .are here to get an education. Your parents expect you to show satisfactory returns on the money they are investing in you. Justify this faith ' resposed in you. -t· Lives'' and finally beginning to understand just what we're doing here. Jim F activi Ft3 ByE: With i club bU< new s joining student student~ possibi:ll increasE actively Many also pon an incr slight ' necessa1 to ero• power. But, E: will bet The r tivities fixed, procedu: be mad year. Re: Contiinie to Union Durin. Union discusse1 renovatiJ Little a< 1976, Wh1 Force improve finally 1 trustees renovati< After drawing· proposal task fc students, The nE door f~ recogniZ'E needs ar in \A ~ College, (SSUC).' that no a College h of negle' facilities tram ural athletics. facilitie~ burdened stances maintena further < our best to SSUC. Said tht \continuo the fact t1 for- evem NovembE has led to all of thE with virtu spring f< tram ural~ heavily u fine turf f deplorablt The .hE present fi• combinat increase< upsUrge ir the reduc1 playing f 1950's Uni fields: Ale and Achill

- Page 2 CONOORDIENS18, October 16., 1980 EDITORIAL On Homecoming Blue Skies No More! When College alumni return this weekend for Homecoming, they'll be sure to notice a number of physical changes arowtd the campus. As tbis week began, for instance, excavations for insulation of heating pipes had Library Plaza loo·.ldAg like a mrnefield. And renovations of Old Gym Hall, now scheduled to be completed by Christmas, have gutted that building, leaving it, for now, a shell of its forme,r self. Alumni may also this weekend hear that the long- promised improvements of Union's athletic fields have finally been funded and approved, and that work will begin on. combining and resodding Daley and Alexander fields with artificial turf after the end of this football season, in November. (See story, page one.) After many uncertain and capricious weeks at our beloved Union, reality is about to be levied upon our unsuspecting heads! The time has finaHy come when the administration can no longer expect us to believe the qui:bbl;ing ex:cuses they have been handing us concerning the construction on campus. Through a strange fluke of fortune, the truth behind the trenches came to me last week. I was walking near Carnegie Hall after a late night soccer game and my ever-perspicious eyes discovered the forms of two men in trench coats; I immediately made the con- nection between their coats and the construction. While walking be a NATO command station. Even as you read tllis bit of literary magnificance, you are being hardenedsothat youmay survive the hardships of war. That is why there is no heat in the dorms or hot water for the showers. We are being con- ditioned. Even the \F()Od Czar\ has not gone unaffected; the Pentagon has asked Angelo ·to raise the quality of OllT food so that we will not notice w,hen we go on C-rations. My recommendation is that Union not overreact to this situation. Against such a force as the Pentagon,. we can do very little. Perhaps wewouldbebest advised to prepare mentally for what could await us in the very near future. Freshman Perspective nonchalently by ( sneaking up behind a tree) I discovered that they were more ominous than they seemed. They were top men from the Air Force! I harkened to hear such plans as would even shake the fearless • heart of a Union student. Th'e MX Missile system proposed for the southwest is being laid into place right within the gates of Union! Now the picture is clear. Did you wonder why the alumni of Union have done nothing to save their beloved Nott Memorial? Only the Pentagon could stop tl:lem. Did you ever wonder why Old Gym Hall was really renovated and renamed? The clue is in the name: (General) Stanly Beckett Hall! It wiU soon Continued on page 12 This action is to be applauded. WhUe m<>ney for projects of thkl sort is always tight, it seems to us that upgrading Union's outdoor athletic facilities w:H.l not only bring the Ill in line with the qur l:lty of the indoor arenas here--Achilles Rink and Memorial Fleldhouse·- but will also play a major role in attracting future students. Coming Of Age At Union Watching Union fall sports teams perform. on well· maintained fields should also add to the enjoyment of future homecomings--which should make a difference to all present students in just a few years, when they have become alumni. Sporting events, like this weekend's football game against Trinity, are always a highUght of the Homecoming weekend. The football gaxne, for example, provides an opportunity for undergraduates and alumni to get together, at tailgate parties and barbecues prior to the game, 1n the stands during the contest, and afterward, at cocktail parties sponsored Hy fraternities, sororities and other social organizations. Homecoming is a time to renew old acquaintances-· be they. from long ago or as recent as last June's graduation. And this should remin.d us that it's the people who were and are a part of the College com- mlUlity that make Union a special place--the kind of place hundreds of graduates will returB to this weekend for .. Homecoming 1980. Subscribe to CONCORDIENSIS ~ Parents, Alumni, Friends $10 Yearly By ROBERTA RUBINSTEIN. Four weeks into the year and just beginning to understand what we're doing here-here at Union College. Eight weeks ago it was just an abstract place that existed somewhere in our minds; now it's home. Now we can't afford to forget how real it is. Having survived our first \college exam\ and- wondering how we're ever going to survive ·four more years of anxiety, we move on through what we're told will be \The Best Four Years of Our Lives.\ It's hard to understand why these years are envied by so many. The pressures that we are now facing seem to be amongst those that are the most devastating we have seen yet. With deadlines to meet, mid- terms, finals and most of all the standards that we feel we have to live up to, every second of our day takes on new importance. These responsibilities are, without question, ones we all have to comply with. But these a.re the extent of our obligations. Beyond this there is little we have to put up with. These next few years are the stepping stones in our climb towards success. We have the best of both worlds here, sheltered from so many of the hardshipsthat will face us in the future. Safe and Secure within the gates of this microcosm called Union, oblivious to the world outside for this is our world-our entire existence. Union, and college in general, gives us a sense of freedom. Even with all the respon- sibilities we have, we manage to find time to do all tne things we've been wanting to do for so long. Forcing ourselves to deal wisely with this newly found \freedom\ is what is difficult. The transition from dependence to ·independence and from restriction to freedom is not an easy one to get used to. Finding a working median between just how much studying and just how much partying we should do takes a great deal of ex- perimentahon. Experiment- ation has it's rewards and penalties alike. We have time to make the necessary changes in our study habits and ow ability to say no. After doing this, all we have to accomplish is to find time to sleep, and here we are at this stage. Four weeks into \The Best Four Years of Our Lives'' and finally beginning to understand just what we're here. Clip the coupon below and return to Concoriensis, Box 2517, Union ~allege, Sche_nectady, NY 12308 Freshman Rules: 1933 r--------------------~ Those who attended Union some 50 years ago know that the college has changed drastically since those days of \The Way We Were.\ Back in the thirties, Union's enrollment was all male and less than half of today's 2,000 plus. ~ Name~--------------------------- 1 I Street ______________ _ Freshmen in 1933 also had to adhere to some pretty rigid standards. Here are some of that year's rules, from the 1933- 34 college handbook. I I City _____________ _ Advice to Freshmen I The transition from ~ State Zip I L~-~---------------~-~ preparatory school to college is a difficult step for the average student, since he comes into an entirely new environment. A word of confidential advice, . .. concoroaens16 Editors-in-Chief Jim Davis, Julie Isgro News Editors Joe Maguire, Gale Vanore Features Editors Judi Chervenak, Fred Fender Arts Editors Bob Fox:, Demetra Pontisakos Photo Editor Rich Sher Sports Editors Bill Curtin, Rich Hope Women's Sports Editor Cory LewkoWicz ,Sports Photo Editor Tom Conway Layout Editor Rachel I. Mandel Business Manager Lawrence C. Leavitt Subscriptions Editor Ellen BW'ger Calendar Editor Maria Manfredonia Staff Claire Burchill, Charis Richards, Jeff Seiardino Photo Staff Michael G. Elkins, Steve Lerner, Charis Richards, CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. therefore, may not be amiss to the student who is entering. Remember, Freshmen · Learn the Freshman rules at once arid follow them con- scientiQusly. Learn the Alma Mater and all songs an cheers at the earliest opportunity. Greet Union men at all times when meeting them on the campus or on the streets of the city. Attend student body meetings, class meetings, and all games. Do your own work and learn to do your own thinking. Golf stockings, sports shoes and a \U\ pipe do not make a college man. See to it that your daily work is not neglected for daily attire. Go out for athletics. The small college must develop more men than the large universities. Do not hesitate to ask advice of upperclassmen on any matters which are not dear to you. Don't \crab\. In doing so, you are only decreasing your popularity. Be on your toes all the time. Look for opportunities and take advantage of them. If you think you are unjustly, treated make your grievances. known to the Student CounciL Do not commit any in· discretions which will reflect on. the good name of the college. ' You are here to get an education. Your parents expect you to show satisfactory returns on the money they are investing in you. Justify this faith' resposed in you. ! liioo-iiii~oiii~iioiooiiii---\'-iilitiioiiiillii;.;...... Jim F activi FlJ ByE With i club bu1 new s joining student student~ possibili increasE actively Many als0 pon an incr sligl:lt necessa to ero~ power. But, 1l will be ~ The r tivities fixed, procedu be mad year. Re: Continue to Union Durin Union discusse, renovatiJ Little a1 1976, Wh1 Force improve finally 1 trustees renovati< After drawing proposal task fc students, The nE door f1 recogniz1 needs ar in \A ~ College, (8SUC).' that no a College h of negle· facilities tram ural athletics. facilitie~ burdened stances maintena further c our best to SSUC. Said thE \continue the fact tl for even Novemb1 has led to all of thE With virtt spring fc tramuralf heavily u fine turf f deplorabl1 The hE present fi combinat increase< upsurge ir the reduc1 playing f 1950's Un1 fields: Ale and Achill

OONCOJl,DIBNBIS~ October 16~ 1980 Pages /'j Library .Uses New System Jim :Fisher, Vice President of Finanee,discusses budgets with activity chairmen. Facts On Tax By EDWARD DIAMANTE With inflation eating away at club budgets and the addition of new student organizations joining in for a piece of the- student activities fund, some students are talking about the possibility of an activities fund increase. Others, in fact, are actively seeking an increase. Many other club leaders are also pondering the possibility of an increase. Most agree, a slight increase may be necessary if inflation continues to erode their purchasing power. But, at least this. year theril will be oncrease. The reason is, that the ac- tivities fund for this year is fixed, and und-er normal procedures an increase cannot be made effective until next year. But as far as next year is concemed, there could be an increase. And, the procedure for that would begin with the Finance Committee recom- mending an increase in the budget to the Student Forum. After that, it will have to go to a \higher authority\ (presumably the Trustees). Therefore,. this year, those on the Finance Committee are hoping that clubs in the Union \community\ will be able to minimize discord by working together to solve any money difficulties. Five new student organizations will receive funding this term. They are: \Ceteris Paribus,\ Union's new economics club, organized last year. The groups first president and principle organizer was Patti Chaifetz, Continued on page 5 Materials in Schaffer Library are easily located. this year after a $10;000 move made over the summer by library staff and students. According to Jean C. Pelletiere, Library Director, the move was made necessary by two factors: 1. The gradual tran- sformation from the Dewey classification to the Library of Congress. The Dewey and Library of Congress systems have been maintained for ten years side-by-side. In the move, the systems were separated in sequential order while .providing for the gradual e]!:- pansion of Library Congress- classified books and the con· traction of Dewey-classified books. 2. The addition to the Library, completed in 1974, has been settling ever since. Particularly afflicted is the second floor, with bound periodicals. They were moved to the basement level, and replaced with other books that weigh one..quarter less than borutd periodicals. (The first floor, also afflicted, has already been relieved of the heavy microforms). \The Library .of Congress classification system,'' ex- plained Ms. Pelletiere, \while not perfect, is the most com- prehensive system worldwide -because it is an almost infinitely expandable system.\ She further explained that the Ohio College Library Center (OCLC) started this sytem of onoline snared cataloging ten years ago and gave libraries the size of the one here the opportunity to change over to j;he Library of Congress. (Schaffer Libr~;try R.~novation to Begin Soon . .... . Contmued from page 1 - Alexander and Achilles, were stron~ly supported by President to Union.\ specifically designed and built Morns. . . . During the mid-70's, the as athletic fields with proper C?ns~ructlon of the Field will Union College trustees slope and drainage. When Fox begm m November, after the discussed the possibilities of and Davidson dorms were built last . home football gall_le. renovating the athletic fields. in the 1960's, Achilles Field was Startmg next ~eptember, lJmon Little action was taken until eliminated .. :this led to the use Coll~ge Athletic teams Will be 1976, when th~ Self Study Task of Library field for practice and ~laymg o_n an Astro or Superturf Force recommendation to games ... Many people. have field untl~ the year 2000, when improve the Athletic Facilities expressed the view, with which the \Umon Dome\ may be finally lit a fire under the we concur, that Library Field erected. _ trustees to start making should not serve as an athletic Everyone's renovation plans. field, but should be restored to - · , After three years on the its natural beauty as a com- F • f Ch · drawing board, this multi-phase mon,\ said ssuc. Irs 0 ICe . . . proposal was decided upon by a The renovation of Library task force comprise.d of Field is what Sakala sees as students, faculty, and alumni. phase five. By taking the heavy The need for improved out- usage off CJf that field, it will door facifities has been return to more of the green recognized for some time; the grass area it once was. needs are .dramatically stated One more plan Sakala would in \A Self Study of Union like to see fulfilled sometime in College,\ January, 1980 the future is to bring home the (SSUC). \It is abundantly clear baseball team. The team has that no aspect of life at Union been holding its practices and College has been more a victim games at Schenectady's Central of neglect than that of the Park. Unfortunately, because of facilities for recreational in- the lack of land in the im- tramural, and intercollegiate mediate area, the only place athletics. Not only are our Sakala c:m see. putti~g. a facilities seriously over- baseball diamond 1s at Grrling burdened, but in many in- Center. sta';lces poor or non-existent . The SSUC h~s. an unfortun~te mamtenance in leading to the vtew of the G1rlmg Center: It further deterioration of even _has been suggested that the our best facilities,\ according Girling Center be modified to to SSUC. meet some ()four athletic needs. Said the SSUC of Daley Field, We suggest that this is most \continuous usage along with unwiseasitistoofarawaytobe the fact that the field has lights .. Q,Lmuc!J goad to most of the for- evening intramutals and campus community. We a~e November football practice, currently seeing the results of has led to its ruin. In fact, with moving off campus in baseball all of these activities coupled and track. They draw few With virtual n.on-stop use in the spectators and .generate almost spring for lacrosse' and in- no community interest.\ trarnurals; this is our most SaidSSUCofthis list of rather heavily used field. This once- extensive improvements, \W f! fine turf facility is currently in feel that these improvements deplorable condition.\ are not lmurious, but will The .heavy usage of the barely bring us to .parity with present fields is the result of a other schools of our type.\ In combination of events: the fact, some of Union's closest increased enrollment; the rivals - HPJ, Colgate, and upsUrge in women's sports; and Rochester, to name a few- have the reduction in the number of built or are in the process of playing fields. ''In the mid- building Astro or Superturf 1950's Union had fot.ir athletic fields, Sakala feels Union must fields: Alexander, Garis, Daley, keep up with the times. The and Achilles. Only two of these, Physical. Plan has also been Continu~d from page'l questioned noted that Union was as the Yale Guide suggested-very preprofessi- onaJly oriented, but once again there is dispute over whether it is a positive or negative aspect. Some students felt that Union should be dedicated to educating its students, not to training them, while others asserted that a realistic, job related field of study was more beneficial and necessary. Most interestingly of all, however, was the way student'S view each other in 'accordance with what the Yale Guide said. Some agrE;led with the guide and stated they have not learned much from fellow students and that while Union has lived up to their academic expectations, it has not met their social hopes. \Both guys and girls expect too much from each other,\ noted one student. \They're looking for some ideal, different person. However, this does not make up the Union student.\ Another commented, \Everyone seems to be from New York. There's no variety\. And one student sadly said, \The girls are t,oo shy and inhibited, guys are frustrated, apathetic and abused.\ ''Despite the small size, there are all different types of per- sonalities to meet. Union has a large endowment for financial aid and this brings in a greater variety of students also,\ said one student. .. has had the terminal for t~u:_ee years).. · This was the perfect time to .plan a complete conversion to the Library of Congress,\ said Ms. Pelletiere. About ten more years are needed for com• pletion. \We are really waiting until it becomes financially feasible. While we are waiting, we are convertil}g. It is possible we will be out of space in five years and, if my prediction is true, we will have to be serious in converting some more material to microform.'' Student lockers were moved to Achilles Rink for immediate space. The coHections are now arranged in the following manner: ,. <}!>ve_rg.J;Il~~WJ Documents_; 11'enodical~andU:S.G.S. Maps- Lower Level. Reference Collection-First Floor. . Current Newspapers, Dewey Classifications and Collection 000-999-Second Floor. Library of Congress, Classification Collection and A- z-Third Floor. Oversized Library of Congress and Dewey-FF, F, Q £receding, the Call Number Stand for Oversized Books. Special Collections-Inquire at the Reference Desk. Booklets describing the Library and its services are available at the Reference Desk. The Student Handbook also carries such information. ~ Jean Pelletiere, Library Oirector, praises new system. .- 4 for PRESIDENT UNION COLLEGE CAMPAIGN WE NEED VOLUNTEERS! BOOKS Gl FTS CARDS For Information, Call .Chuck Brein 785-1408 785-8585 -136 Jay Street Downtown Schenectady--- 3411 ·271~ Ph: Riggi's Pizza 374-9455 I Field I House . Hot & Cold Sandwiches & Subs ~ 2155 Van Vranken Ave I - 4 minute walk - ·Union To Girling Center Nott. St. \ u RIGGI 1 S Mohawk L Bank ·Alexander St. TUTORS AVAILABLE The Academic Opportunity Program (A.O.P.) provides a TUTORIAL · SERV.ICE for ALL students. The present rate is s3.1 0 per hour. For more information contact Maxine Meadows- Shuford, ~OP Office Bailey 101.

,i i ·j OONOORDIENSIS, October 16, 1980 Page 3 ! q .. I Library .Uses New System Jim Fisher, Vice President of Finarnce, discusses budgets with activity chairmen. Facts On Tax By EDWARD DIAMANTE With inflation eating away at club budgets and the addition of new student organizations joining in for a piece of the student activities fund, some students are talking about the possibility of an activities fund increase. Others, in fact, are actively seeking an increase. Many ether club leaders are also pondering the possibility of an increase. Most agree, a slight increase may be necessary if inflation continues to erode their purchasing power. But, at least this year there will be oncrease. The reason is, that the ac- tivities fund for this year is fixed, and under normal procedures an increase cannot be made effective until next year. But as far as next year is concerned, there could be an increase. And, the procedure for that would begin with the Finance Committee recom- mending an increase in the budget to the Student Forum. After that, it will have to go to a \higher authority\ (presumably the Trustees). Therefore, this year, those on the Finance Committee are hoping that clubs in the Union \community\ will be able to minimize discord by working together to solve any money difficulties. Five new student organizations will receive funding this term. They are : \Ceteris Paribus,\ Union's new economics club, organized last year. The groups first president and principle organizer was Patti Chaifetz, Continued on page 5 Materials in Schaffer Library are easily located this year after a $10,000 move made over the swnmer by ltbrary staff and students. According to Jean C. PeHetiere, Library Director, the move was made necessary by two factors: 1. The gradual tran- sformation from the Dewey classification to the Library of Congress. The Dewey and Library of Congress systems have been maintained for ten years side-by-side. In the move, the systems were separated in sequential order while providing for the gradual ex- pansion of Library Congress- classified books and the con- traction of Dewey-classified books. 2. The addition to the Library, completed in 1974, has been settling ever since. Particularly afflicted is the second floor, with bound periodicals. They were moved to the basement level, and replaced with other books that weigh one-quarter less than bound periodicals. (The first floor, also afflicted, has already been relievecl of the heavy microforms). \The Library of Congress classification system,\ ex- plained Ms. Pelletiere, \while not perfect, is the most com- prehensive system W<lrldwide because it is an almost infinitely expandable system.'' She further explained that the Ohio College Library Center (OCLC) started this sytem of on-line shared cataloging ten years ago and gave libraries the size of the one here the opportW1ity to change over to the Library of Congress. (Schaffer Library R.enovation to Begin Soon . Contmued from page 1 Alexander and Achilles were strongly supported by President to Union.\ specifically designed and built Morris. . . . During the mid-70's, the as athletic fi~lds with proper C~ms~ructwn of the Field wtll Union College trustees slope and dramage. When Fox begm m November, after the discussed the possibilities of and Davidson dorms were built last . home football gan:te. renovating the athletic fields. in the 1960's, Achilles Field was Startmg next ~eptember, l!mon Little action was taken until eliminated ... this led to the use Coll~ge Athletic teams wtll be 1976, when the Self Study Task of Library field for practice and ~laymg o_n an Astro or Superturf Force recommendation to games ... Many people have f1eld untll the year 2000, when improve the Athletic Facilities expressed the view, with which the \Union Dome\ may be finally lit a fire under the we concur, that Library Field erected. trustees to start making should not serve as an athletic Everyone's renovation plans. field, but should be restored to After three years on the its natural beauty as a com- F · f Ch · drawing board, this multi-phase mon,\ said ssuc. Irs 0 ICe proposal was decided upon by a The renovation of Library task force comprised of Field is what Sakala sees as students, faculty, and alumni. phase five. By taking the heavy The need for improved out- usage off of that field, it will door facilities has been return to more of the green recognized for some time; the grass area it once was. needs are dramatically stated One more plan Sakala would in \A Self Study of Union like to see fulfilled sometime in College,\ January, 1980 the future is to bring horne the rSSUC). \It is abundantly clear baseball team. The team has that no aspect of life at Union been holding its practices and College has been more a victim games at Schenectady's Central of neglect than that of the Park. Unfortunately; becaus~ of facilities for recreational in- the lack of land m the nn- tramural, and intercollegiate mediate area, the only. place athletics. Not only are our Sakal a c~n see. puth~g. a facilities seriously over- baseball dtamond Is at Gtrling burdened, but in many in- Center. stances poor or non-existent The SSUC has an unfortunate maintenance in leading to the view of the Girling Center: \It further deterioration of even .has been suggested that the our best facilities \ according Girling Center be modified to to SSUC. ' meet some of our athletic needs. Said the SSUC of Daley Field, We suggest that this is most \continuous usage along with unwise as it is too far away to be the fact that the field has lights ..J)j. muc~ good to . most of the for evening intramurals and campus commumty. We a~e November football practice, curr~ntly seeing the. results of has led to its ruin. In fact, with movmg off campus m baseball all of these activities coupled and track. They draw few with virtual non-stop use in the spectators and generate almost spring for lacrosse and in- no community interest.\ tram urals; this is our most Said SSUC of this list of rather heavily used field. This once- extensive improvements, \Wf! fine turf facility is currently in feel that these improvements deplorable condition.\ are not luxurious, but will The heavy usage of the barely bring us to parity with present fields is the result of a other schools of our type.\ In combination of events: the fact, some of Union's closest increased enrollment; the rivals - RPI, Colgate, and upsurge in women's sports; and Rochester, to name a few- have the reduction in the number of built or are in the process of playing fields. \In the mid- bailding Astro or Superturf 1950's Union had four athletic fields, Sakala feels Union must fields: Alexander, Garis Daley, keep up with the times. The and Achilles. Only two ~f these, Physical. Plan has also been Continued trom page'I questioned noted that Union was as the Yale Guide suggested-very preprofessi- onaUy oriented, but once again there is dispute over whether it is a positive or negative aspect. Some students felt that Union should be dedicated to educating its students, not to training them, while others asserted that a realistic, job related field of study was more beneficial and necessary. Most interestingly of all, however, was the way student's view each other in 'accordance with what the Yale Guide said. Some agreed with the guide and stated they have not learned much from fellow students and that while Union has lived up to their academic expectations, it has not met their social hopes. ''Both guys and girls ex:pect too much from each <lther,\ noted one student. \They're looking for some ideal, different person. However, this does not make up the Union student.\ Another commented, \Everyone seems to be from New York. There's no variety\. And one student sadly said, \The girls are too shy and inhibited, guys are frustrated, apathetic and abused.\ \Despite the small size, there are all different types of per- sonalities to meet. Union has a large endowment for financial aid and this brings in a greater variety of students also,\ said one student. .has had the terminal for tlu:.et~. years). This was the perfect time to plan a complete conversion to the Ubrary of Congress,\ said Ms. Pelletiere. About ten more years are needed for com- pletion. \We are really waiting until it becomes financiaUy feasible. While we are waiting, we ate convertiQg. It is possible we will be out of space in five years and, if my prediction is true, we will have to be serious in converting some more material to microform.'' Student lockers were moved to Achiilles Rink for immediate space. The collections are now arranged in the following manner: • <]~)Ve_fQf!WJlj Documents,; tfertodicalsandU:S.G.S. Maps- Lower Level. Reference Collection-First Floor. . Current Newspapers, Dewey Classifications and CoHection OOG-999-Second Floor. Library of Congress, Classification Collection and A- 2-Third Floor. Oversized Library of Congress a:nd Dewey-FF, F, Q Preceding, the Call Nutnber Stand for Oversized Books. Special Collections-Inquire at the Reference Desk. Booklets describing the Library and its services are available at the Reference Desk. The Student Handbook also carries such information. Jean Pelletiere, Library Director, praises new system. .a....--.-. 4 for PRESIDENT UNION COLLEGE CAMPAIGN WE NEED VOLUNTEERS! BOOKS Gl FTS CARDS For Information, Call .Chuck Brein 785-1408 785-8585 -136 Jay Street Downtown Schenectady--- 348 ·27HI Ph: Riggi's Pizza 374-9455 'Field I House Hot & Cold Sandwiches & Subs 2155 Van Vranken Ave I - 4 minute walk - 'Union To Girling Center Nott. St. . w RIGGI'S Mohawk L Bank Alexander St. TUTORS AVAILABLE The Academic Opportunity Program (A.O .P.) provides a TUTU RIAL · SERVICE for ALL students. The present rate is 5 3.10 per hour. For more information contact Maxine Meadows- Shuford, AOP Office Bailey 101.

Page 4 CONOORDIBN818, October 16, 19BP . Margo Ross works her shift in the Rathskellar Council Seeks Goals By SCOTT J\DAMS With five meetings under its helt, the Academic Affairs Council (AAC} continues to probe its responsibilities and the possible techniques for fulfilling them. While still in its infancy, the AAC is setting up sub-councils to relieve itself of some of the more routine matters, as it works towards its larger goal of overall academic development. The AAC \shall be respon- sible for the formulation and recommendation of plans and policies for curricular development,'' according to the Governance Document. The AAC is working toward a complete review of all curricular programs and courses, resulting in recom- mendations for possible changes in programs and-or co~ses. \Our target date for any chang-es is September, 1982,\ said Francis Lambert, Chairman of AAC. • ''Until further notice, AAC will meet on Monday's at 12:30 p.m.,\in SS 110; \the meetings are officially open to non- members, except when the body votes for a closed meeting oo specific items of agenda,'' according to the minutes published from the AAC's Sept. 22 meeting. Members of the AAC are Vice President D'Andrea;. Dean Nelson; Dean Feinsot; Professors Griggs; Hull; Lambert (Chair); Milillo; Ward; Weiner; Wilson; and students S. Auerbach; ~­ Cardany; N. Gagliano; and H. Schwartz. In accordance with the Governance docwnent, the AA:C has formed a Sub-council on the Standing of Students. \It deals with the matters it always has,\ said Calvin Schmidt, Registrar. These include making recommendations on policies affecting academic standing of undergraduates; reviewing records of students with un- satisfactory academic stan~ ding; and evaluating petitions for undergraduate re-admission to Union. Also, as required by the Governance docwnent, the AAC has formed a Sub-council on Graduate Studies. Among other responsibilities, the Sub-council is charged with formulating and recommending \plans and policies with respect to graduate studies, (making re- commendations on), proposed graduate courses and programs; \and reviewing \the criteria for graduate ad- mission,\ according to the Governance document. Members of the temporary Imagine yourself creating a simulator that duplicat~·s .in.3-D any Steering Committee are a subset of tlle AAC. The purpose of this committee is to re-;:ommend procedures for the AAC to conduct curricular review. The committee will help determine what information is needed and where it can be obtained, .for AAC. It is ''presently attempting to ac-. cummulate data on various class sizes in an effort to find where the pressures are and possibly reallocate faculty resources to allieviate these pressilres,\ said Dr. D'Andrea. The Sub-council on Research and Grants will advise the administration on proper levels of support for research and curricular development; re·commend policies in distribution of college funds for research and faculty-student development; and. advise the AAC and administration on supporting faculty obtaining noncollege support for research and development. The Sub-council on courses and programs deals with new course proposals; routine work on program and course changes; and student petitions for variances in requirements; and ''the supervision of the academic content of the college Academic Register when necessary,\ according to AAC's minutes, Sept. 22. a pilot might experience. You can do it at Hughes Support Systems. We also support all of Hughes Aircraft Company w1th a vast assortment of advanced electronic systems - lasers. satellites. radars. electro-optiCS. and thermal 1mag1ng, to name a few. We offer one of the f1nest continuing education programs 1n the country and a world of other benefits Imagine yourself at Hughes. On Campus Oct. 22 See your placement ofJice for an appointment. At Hughes, your future is limited only by your i ~·- .. ····~· r------------------, I I i HUGHES l I I L------------------~ HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY SUPP0RT SYSTEMS Proof of U.S. Cltlzen•hlp Required EQual OpportuniiV Employer Hughes Aircraft Company, Support Systems Group, P.O. Box 90515, Los Angeles, CA 90009. By JOE MAGUIRE \Angelo·.\ \The College.\ \The Food. Service.\ \I dunno-maybe that Angelo guy.\ ''The Trustees.\ ''The school. No, not the school. I don't know-OK, I'll· guess the school.'' Who owns the business of the Union College Rathskellar? ''Who cares?\ Well, if you knew, youmight care. The Union College Rathskellar is owned by the \Union College Student Council,. Incorporated,'' ac.cording. to Calvin Schmidt, Registrar. Sch- midt has been involved with the Skellar since its inception in 1950. A:'! of now, he calls himself the \acting secretary\ of the corporate board. From 1950 to 1956 or so, the Skellar was owned by the student body. Corporate meetings were held at required convocation ceremonies, since they presented a quorum of students assembled at one place. In the late 1950's, the convocations were di-scon- tinued; the student body relinguished ownership to the student council. The student council is the predecessor of the Student Forum, and the Fe rum: owns the Skellar today. \Free beer.\ \Student Government Hour.\ Not quite. Schmidt said that the Skellar By JOE MAGUIRE. Budget procedures and transportation of injured students highlighted the Student Forlllll meeting Monday night at 7:30 in Carnegie Hall, as President Dave O'Connor p~esided. During the officer's reports, Finance Vice President Jim Fisher said his new accoWlting system is going well, but some procedures may need to be revised. Specifically, he predicted a change in the office hours of the finance committee, effective as early as next week. Details of the new schedule were not released. Dave O'Connor asked the members of the Forum to consider the problem of a club with limited membership which asked for a large budget. On this .subject, Junior Trustee Will Lloyd questioned whether or not the forum shQuld \spend five or ten thousand dollars· on groups supporting ten or fifteen people.\ Fisher said that the number of people in a group is a concern but it should not be the only parameter. There is no reason to use membership numbers as the only budgeting guideline, he insisted, as it has never been done that way in ihe past. Lloyd said that he plans to bring before the Board of is a non.profit organization, and any money the Forum makes on the enterprise goes back into the system. \I was sure it was Angelo.\ Almost. Angelo leases an- nually for the right t() operate the Skellar. Five per cent of anything spent at the skelbir goes to the Union College Student CoURcil :Corporation. Beyond that;' whatever .profit Angelo Mazzone clears is his. \That five per cent is part of his overhead,'' said Schmidt. \The Rusiness Office?\ Nope. The only non-students on the governing board are Sch~ midt, and Robert H. Kellet, Dean of Students. Kellet's board title .is assistant to the secretary. All other executive board positions are filled by students. As specified in the by- laws of. the corporation, the board consists of the Student Body President (Dave O'Connor), the chairman of the Fraternity President's Council (Tony Klockenbrink, President of the Inter-Fraternity Council, holds this seat, since the President's Council no longger exists.) Also the Chairman of the Ta:x: .committee (Jim Fisher fills this position, now called Vice President of Finance), the Dean of Students, two representatives at large and a faculty or staff merriber ap- pointed by the President of the College. \That's it-the President!\ Some people are tough to convince. Trustees the possibility of raising student activities for the next academic year. ( For more on the Student Activities Budget, see story on page 3) Uoyd also announced that all preliihinary preparations for a can1pus information phone were complete. He is hopeful that soon students will be able to dial a taped message of all events and act activities on campus in ·any given week. Possibilities 'Were also discussed to have the tape made twice a week, depending on how much is going on. Lloyd also expressed his concern for the poor ambulance service on campus, pointing out that if one is hurt, Security probably will not drive him-her to Ellis Hospital. Michael Andolina, assistant Dean of Students and advisor to the forum, explained that the college is not insured properly to provide this kind of service. The forllll1 plans to inquire to Cliff Wood, Director of Security and Safety, about this problem. Andolina also pointed out that the security officers are not medically trained ambulance attendants, and \if there's any question about whether or not they should move him (the injured student) or not, they won't.\ PROSPECTIVE LAW STUDENTS Law School and Legal Career Information DATE: Uednesday, October 22, 1980 TIME: 9:00 to 11:00 a.m. PLACE: Union College Further information available: Professor Jos.eph Board Pre-lawAdvisor,. Political Science Dept., Union College' McGEORGE SCHOOL OF LAW UNIVERSITY OF THE PACIFIC SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA J.D. DEGREE (Full• lime, ~art-Time, Accelerated Evening Divisions)- JOINT DEGREE PROGRAM- MASTER OF LAWS !Taxation, Business & Tax<;~­ tion) -INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS -ACCREDITED: AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION -MEMBER: ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN LAW SCHOOLS - ')\': , .:~ ,_,.. 1/) '- (t) s: u > ~ 0 - 0 s: Cl.. Seni' Uni Cc \Car river?' McLai1 could ; great e Union, United Team. Whill whethe P-ttend Olympi directl1 maybe. not to broadc: decisiOJ Rod h~ from.s1 to train Briggs. about tl the gan very fr there 1 about

Ill \0 '- ro .J: u n: en '- 10 .£: u >- ..0 0 - 0 .£: a. OONCORDIENSIS, October 16, 1980 Page 5 . Two Enjoy Year Abroad Senior Sue Farley spent la.s.t year st,udying in Zurich, Switzerland. Union Student Rod McLa:in By CORAL YN HERTZBERG During . thjs past academic year '(1979-1980), two Union students .spent their time studying at the Eidgenossische Technische Hochscille, or the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, in Zurich, Swit- zerland. These two students were Susan Farley, '81, and Robert Ronkese, '80. The exchange program is offered every year to any Science or Engineering major who is on the Dean's List. Students are required to have a working knowledge in German, since all classes at the Institute are conducted in German, To Sue and Rob, this meant not only taking German 10 aad 11 at Union College but also spending the swntner of '79 at the Goethe Institute in Germany in order to become completely familiar with the language. To Sue Farley, the exchange program was both interesting and enjoyable. Of course, it was quite different than studying at Union in many ways, but Sue seems to think that overall the experience was a good one. Not only did she get the chance to learn a lot of Chemistry, her major, but she also got the chance to learn about another culture first hand. · Sue's typical class at the ETH was much different from a typical class at Union. Sue's first comment regarding her classes was that they were much more intense. All she and the other students studied during the year was either Chemistry or Engineering. She took no courses equivaieat to Liberal Learning courses or anything whatsoever outside of her major, and there were no ' such courses offered at the Institute. Also, there were no tests or specific reading assignments. There were homeowrk .assignments and quizzes gi:ven occasionally, but these were not used to evaluate the students in any way. The Swiss students at the Institute tookone verbal test to cover the entire year, and they usually took this during the year after the material was covered in class. Thus, the students who studied with Sue and Rob may now be taking their only exam. Sue and Rob were exempt from this requirement, and thus they received no grades for the year speP.t there. They did, of course, receive credit for an entire year of schoolwork. , Canoeist Paddles Toward '84 Sue did seem to think that she learned a lot of Chemistry. \But the emphasis was slightly different,\ she commented. \I spent a lot more time in lab than I would here, and my education was very practical.\ She seems to think that here she may have learn 1 ed more theory and less practice. She did not think that her overall education in chemistry was any bit less than it would have been had she stayed here. Naturally, she commented that she learned the most outside of class, just being constantly exposed to the Swiss culture. By LIND ASHER \Can I canoe y<m up the river?\ Probably not, hut R(}d McLain, of Mayfield, N.Y., could and he could do it viitll great ease. Rod, a sophomore at. Union, is. a member oi the United States Olympic Cano€ Team. While most of us debated whether or not the U.S. should ?.ttend the 1980 SumDJer Olympics in Moscow, it did not directly affect our lives (except maybe in deciding whether or not to watch the televised broadcast). The presidential decision did effect Rod's life. Rod had taken last year off · from .school to g.o to California to train with national coach :Bill Briggs. When asked how he felt about the decision not to attend the games, Rod replied, \It ~as very frustrating at first, but there was nothing I could do about it. The decision VIas 464 State St. we deliver made.\ Did he feel the training was in vain? \No. Canoeing improves with experience; the better your technique and the more experience you have, the better your chances are of winning,\ Rod's chances are great! He is the 1980 National White Water Champion, finished second in the National Flat Water Race, and together with his older brother, hold the number four spot ·for the 1980 Two Man National Flat Water Race. How does one become in- terested in and train for a sport lill;.e canoeing? With Mom and Dad both active in the. sport, Dad the Adirondack Region Coach, and being raised on a lake, interest in the sport evolved naturally. Rod and his brother would take movies of canoers and their methods, and spend evenings watching and learning and the days prac- ticing. Gradually they began Schenec,tady 374 ... J81Ja the dimb from local to regional to national races, each time setting their sights a bit higher. The work has paid off. By finishing second in the National Flat Water Race, Rod earned himself a position on the \A Team\ on the U.S. Olympic Team. Disappointment with not being able to attend the 1980 Olympics is behind him. Rod will continue to work and strive for a position with the 1984 and 1988 teams. No one's position on the Olympic team is guaran- teed, but if Rod continues training in. the same manner, the only progress is forward, and how much higher up than number two can one climb? One thing, however, did bother Sue about the ETH. '. There were very few women students. Out of 80 Chemistry and Chemical Engineering students only three were women. Sue said that she felt slightly out of place, and that she was glad that she lived in a house with many other women. This house also gave her the Addressers . wanted immediately! Work at home - no experience. necessary - excellent pay! .. Write: National Service 9041 Man,field Suite 2004 ·shreveport, Louisiana 71118 ATT'ENTION: JRS. and SRS. Information on the Masters Program in Public Policy Studies at the University of Chicago. Mr. William St. John will be available on cam pus Tuesday, October 21 \- between 2 and 4 p.m. SIGN UP NOW AT THE PLACEMENT OFFICE . chance t~ meet students at the otl:ier Universities in Zurich, where most of those women attended. Sue noted some distinct differences between American and Swiss students. The Swiss students were generally very motivated and intelligent, but Sue did not feel that they dif- 'fered intellectually from the average Union College student. Most students in her classes were two years older than her due to the fact that the Swiss equivalent of high school lasts an extra two years, but she did not feel in any way less qualified than they. Yet Sue did seem to think that Union students were more \intense·· people. The Swiss students, she said, never really had to sit and study the way Union College students do. \At Union,\ she commented with a smile, \We study harder, but we also party harder.\ Sue seemed to think that there is much more time pressure here at Union. She recalled how different and relaxed the Tabs were at the ETH. Often, she was able to finish the lab assignment much earlier than scheduled, which is a rarity at Union. Overall, Sue seemed to look back at her experience in Switzerland with much pleasure. She recommends the exchange program highly to anyone who is interested, and invites anyone to come and talk with her about her experience. Facts On Tax .. Continued from page 3 who graduated last term. \Union Views,\ another student organization which made its debut last year, will receive funds. Organizers plan to publish · \news articles\ controversial issues, creative works and other non-news stories twice each term. The Philomathean Society, the \recently created\ debate club, will offer students \an opportunity to improve their speaking skills, as well as the chance to compete on in- tercollegiate debate.\ ATTENTION ALL UNION STUDENTS T-SHIRT and BEE·NIE SALE MONDAY, OCTOBER 20th 1: oo to 4: 30· CARNEGIE LOBBY

Page 6 ' -.- ' • .\ ,._ . ,. . \.( ':',.; . ' .... ~ ',\\ t l'r:.~~~r·;; OONOORDIENBJS, October· 16:· t9BO Nationwide: Tuition Will Rise - Even before students finish writing the checks for this year's out-of-orbit tuition, college administrators are dropping hints and even making offi.cial announcements that tuition for the 1981-82 academic year will be going up again. Blaming inflation and rising faculty salaries, administrators forecast next year's increases could range anywhere from Arizona's 8.3 percent to Texas' proposed hike of 100 percent. In general, out-of-state students in most public systems are ex- pected to be the hardest hit by the next round of tuition in- creases. Arizona's was the first higher education system to adopt 1981- 82 rates. The State Board of' Regents unanimously decided last week to raise tuition 18 percent for non-residents at the University of Arizona and Arizona State University; and 19 percent at Northern Arizona. In-state tuition will go up by 8.3 percent. Yet Robert Huff, the regents' executive director, sees the ·increase as ''a pretty middle-of- the-road position. Many schools of our caliber charge much more.\ Arizona, like other systems, based its increase on 1979-80's inflation rate, not what it ex- pects next year's rate will be. \We calculated what our ex- penses were last. year, and to compensate have raised tuition by th~t amount,'' Huff explains. Inflationary pressures are even affecting Texas state schools,.which are beneficiaries of a complex of energy trust funds. If a state legislative committee has· its• way, state college and universities will impose a whopping 100 percent ' increase on its students. The committee plan, to be presented to the entire legislative when it convenes in January, would boost costs from $4 to $8 per semester credit hour for in-state students, and from $40 to $80 for out-of- state students. State-supported dental and medical schools would sustain a 900 percent increase. Perhaps J;llore typically, Iowa State's regents have recom- mended that in-state students' $816 per year tuition be raised to $950 in 1981-82, a 16.4 percent increase. Non-resident tuition is ex- pected to go up nearly 25 per- cent. \The administration looks at the proposals with regret,\ mourns Carl Hamilton, the university's vice president for information and development. \But if this is the best judgement of the regents, we wouldh 't be in any position to fight it.\ Indeed, the fear of widespread student protest of the increases hall apparently convinced some college governing boards to delay announcing them. Cornell University's trustees, for exa1.1J)le,. have taken the unprecedented step of delaying the· anno~cement of a price hike until their March meeting,. when most students will be off campus. The trustees usually an- nounce the next year's t!Jj.tion- rate in November, and officially approve it at their January· meeting. · But student protest has- rarely stemmed the tide of rising rates. Tom Ajamie, Arizona State's student body president, testified before the Arizona regents that, while the $100 per year increase for resident students must be fair, the $450 hike for out-of-state students was irresponsible. He predicted the tuition would deter many promising students from corning to Arizona colleges. \Are we promQtingthe idea ·of exclusiv~ education?\ he asked the board. Yet board director Huff ex- plains that a major reason why out-of-staters are being hit with the biggeftt increases is legislative pressure. The legislators, he says, \wanted out-of-state students to pay 100 percent of our costs. Now they pay 86 percent, but the legislature feels that since t}ley come here to get an education while the state tax- payers help support it, that they should pay more of the share of it.\ He insists the higher rate will not keep out-of-staters away. \Last time we raised tuition for : -----=::::::::•17 varieties --~ •Foot-long sandwiches or snak size, regular or double,meat •Served hot or cold Famous .. OOt•Lana Sandwiches •Made tO YOUr Order -----•OPEN PAST MIDNIGHT----- Corner of State & J non-residents,\ he recalls proudly, \we had one of our biggest enrollment increases.'' Dorlll Council ForHis at Union Where to go to dinner when the parents are in town? ~- By CHRIS ERDEY Are you wondering who is getting each dorm involved in educational, social and campus oriented activities? Well,· the dorm council is behind it all. Every residence hall now has its own dorm council, which performs various functions. The council consists of two co- chairman and approximately two representatives from each floor. These representatives either volunteer or are asked by the RA if they would like to participate in the council. Weekly meetings allow the council to give dorm representatives and RA's feedback on the views of the dorm residents concerning activities. After all, the coun- cil's purpose is to represent everyone in the dorm. As Kelly Dennin, co-chairman of North's dorm council, asserts, \We're speaking for the people on the floors.\ Through discussions at floor meetings and through polls, where residents vote on activities the council obtains students' reactions to ideas. The council also must determine how to allocate the dorm's funds, which are a result of the ten dollar fee paid by each resident. There are several functions the donn council can organize by working within its budget. For example, each dorm is planning educational, social, and campl!S related activities. In North College, the educational activity this fall is \Europe Night,\ which will be held Oct. 28 in Strauss Lotm,ge. Students who have studied abroad will make presen- tations, show slides, and speak of their experiences in foreign countries• The campus related event is, both North and South dorms are constructing the homecoming float. This helps further interest and in- volvement in homecoming this weekend. North's social hap- pening is a party planned for November 8, but ideas are still being received by the council, as to the type .Qf party desired. Besides performing the~e functions, the Donn Council helps boost dorm pride and mthusiasm by having people in the dorm help plan activities rather than just the four RA's. Also the council provides an opportunity for one who has never worked on a committee to do so. Such an experience aids · one in developing leadership qualities while ·gaining con\ fidence in the process. The council provides still another important benefit. As Carmen Martinez, RA of second floor North, explains, ''It establishes a good feeling about the social atmosphere.'' Also, by par- ticipating in the various ac- tivities arranged by the council, students can grow both in- tellectually and socially, thus making themselves more in- teresting and vibrant in- dividuals. INTERNATIONAL CAREER? A representative will be on the campus TUESDAY October 21 , 1980 to discuss qualifications for advanced study at AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL and jo·b opportunities in the field of INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT Interviews may be scheduled at CAREER COUNSELOR/CO-DIRECTOR OFFICE AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEME!'fT Thunderbird c;:ampus Glendale, Arizona 85306 The Cranberry Bog. One of the finest seafood houses in the area. Also featuring veal, beef and fowl. Dinners served from 5 pm daily and l.pm on Sunday. Luncheon served Monday thru Saturday 11:30 to 2:30. Reservations suggested, phone ·459-5110 -IHE- ~ cranl5erry r::J BOG Restaurant, Inc. 56 Wolf Road Serving Daily& Sunday 459·5110 N ext prE COil pol nat to 1 r: big: cor Vie Un1 libe to ene in ';'in pre thr~ con libe \ca effE \ca cov~ w dan cow ithli adv4 Si Am' Sou· ''pr< wesl of ~ LaO! Afgl havE facti

OONOOBDlENB/8 1 Octobe,r t.G~ 1980 Page '7 Book Review:· 'The Present 'Danger' PUC Rush Set By, SUE BLOOMBERG responsible for the preparation of this rush. The Fanhellenic By EDWARD DIAMANTE / Norman Podhoretz;l despite his extreme conservative stance, ·presents serious questions concerning American . foreign policy, questions for which our nation'S leaders will soon have to answer. Detente, he said,. was \the highest degree of containment compatible with the post- Vietnam palitical climate in the United States ... '' When the liberals-said Podhoretz-fought to remove \their ancient enemy, Richard Nixon,\ they, in effect, blocked America's '''institutional capability'' to prevent Soviet adventurism thraugh \an overt policy of containment.\ When the liberals· fought to reduce the ''capability'' of the CIA, they, in effect reduced America's \capability for· conducting a covert policy of containment-.\ While Vietnam may have· dampened America's resolve to counter Soviet \adventurism\, it has riot dampened the Soviet's adventurist spirit. Since the fall of the ''pro- American\ government in South Vietnam, Soviet \.proxies\ have led many pro- western nations into the hands of Soviet supported factions. Laos, Etbiopia, Mozambique, Afghanistan and Cambodia have been \taken over by factions loyal to the Soviet Union, whtle the United States looked complacently on,\ said Podhoretz. Without the use of the CIA as a countering force against the Soviet \proxies''··Podhoretz suggested ·-more pro-western nations will fall into:thehands of Soviet supported \factions.'\ As long as we hold the attitude that \nothing is worth fighting for,\ the Soviet Union will continue to \consolidate their gains.\ We should not expect our alliance with China to deter the Soviet Union because, said Podhoretz \Communist China is S(l weak that its contribution to the containment of Soviet imperialism ma.-y be negligible.\ Instead, he. warned · \we may be helping China into a terror to our children and grandchildren.\ In short, our best defense against Soviet adventurism is a strong defense capability of oar own. For Podhoretz, the real enemy is . not merely Soviet adventurism, but Communism ' in general. Because otherwise, our leaders will be obliged to explain why there is more than one brand of Communism; one bad, but the other acceptable. Our greatest fear, though, in the face of our weaken- edmilitary capacity, explained Podhoretz, is the potential for a direct confrontation with the Soviets-as in the event of a Soviet takeover of the Middle Eastern Oil Nations. \B! then,\ he warned, \the vulnerability of our missiles to a Soviet first stri-ke woald automatically dictate surrender-checkmate by telephone.\ Podhoretz is hopeful that the Iranian crisis and the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan have convinced American leaders of the dangers of a weak military. A strong military, he argued, wHI deter nations hostile to the United.Statesl from taking such actions. On ''The Present Danger\ Senator Henry M. Jackson (D. Wash.) said, ''it should be everyone'srequired reading.\ I consider that a bit extreme. But in any case, Poclhoretz' book presents much food for thought for our nation's leader-s, liberals and conservatives alike. ' · - 'fhe..- PMlleUenic .CoWlCil is presently active in planning a formal rush for Union's two sororities, .Sigma Delta Tau and Delta Gamma. Orientation, which is an in- formal,_ informational meeting a oout Greek 'life for women, will he held on Sunday, Oct. 26 at 4 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Sisters from hoth houses Will attend the reception in order to give in- terested· girls a broader per- spective about Greek life. Those interested in attending formal rush will sig~-up during the week ·following the orien- tation meeting. Formal rush win begin on Nov. 3 and will last for appro~mately two weeks. During formal rush, there will be parties· at both soroi,ty houses. The governing body of sororities on campus, the PanheHenic Council, is ~~ .Qlunc.ij (~) , is the coqn- ferpart to the Inter Fraternity Council (IFC). Organized last winter at Union, the PHC's major purpose is to promote Greek life and organize formal rush. Although the Panhellenic Council is sti'll in the organizational stages, it hopes to promote more activities among Greeks on campus. The National PanheHenic Council, which includes 26 National women's fraternities, oversees all alumni and school chapters. It's major purpose is to enforce rules concerning tush and ;ple~ging in· order to ~ablish consistency. It Is also crucial that because Union is a member. of the National Panhellenic Council, any other sororities that colonize on campus must be one of the 26 members ·Of the Panhellenic Council. Many alumni of the Panhellenic Council reside in the Schenectady area and are supportive of Union's Panhellenic Council. Jane- Wood, a counselor advisor in Career Resources and Placement, is the adviser to the Council at Union. The school has also been supportive of the Parihellenic Council. The Panhellenic Council is still in the initial stages of development, but is optimistic and has set high goals for itself and Greek life at Union for the 1980-81 school year. · .GENERAL DYNAMICS CAMPUS INriRVIIWS 0CFOBIR31 Pomona Division That's the date when engineer-s from General Dynamics will be here on campus to talk technology with graduating engineering or science students. We'll be here to answer your questions and to tell you everything you need to know · about ourbroad spectrum of opportunities and about how you can begin a rewarding career with General Dynamics. · \ FHIFUFURE. MAKIA . CARIIR Of IF. Located in Southern California, the Pomona Division is a world lea~er in the design and __ manufacture of tactical missiles and armament systems. We're growing and adding to our engin~erihg staff every day, and there's outstanding growth potential for motivated peop,le. Talk to us about how you can be involvedwith highly-technical and ' ·challenging state-of-the-art projects with General Dynamics. Don't wait. Contact your Placement Office now for your interview. Or, drop a line to: FrankLeRoy, College Relations Coordinator; P.O. Box 2507, Pomona, CA 91766. An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F U.S. Citizenship Required /

Pa~e 8 Friday~ Oct. 17 8:30am to 4:30pm 3:00pm to 4:30pm 4:30pm to 6:00pm 4:30pm to 6:30pm 8:00pm 8:00pm & 11:00 pm · 8:30pm to 10:30 pm 9:30pm to 12:00 am 9:00pm OPEN CLASSES Selected Classes will be open to alumni, parents & friends. Schedules available at Alumni Of£ice, Lamont House. ALUMNl CAREER PANELS For Students and Alumni Humanities Building Government Law Business-Finance Room 117 Roomll4 Room 112 10 YEAR C~LEBRATION OF WOMEN AT UNION-strauss Lc.unge The Women's ;>.letwork invites women and alumnaie to join them for a cocktail reception. OPEN HOCKEY TEAM PRACTICE Achilles Rink-Come and watch the Dutchmen practice. HENRY PAUL BAND CONCERT Memorial Chapel Tickets available in the Student Activities Office. MOVIE ''10'' Room 016, Social Science Bldg. Tickets- $1.25 at the door. ICE SKATING-Achilles Rink with LD. $. 75, without $1.50 Rentals available at Rink SPECIAL ALUMNI COFFEEHOUSE Old Chapel-for everyone! Featuring song-writer-comedian Howie Newman of Boston. Dortation $1 ;00 at door. Free cider & donuts, Irish coffee will he avail;:tble. B..L.A.S. ALUMNI HOMECOMING EX- TRAVAGaNZA--Strauss Lounge. Everyone is invited to a fun evening of music, dancing, free wine, beer, cheese, crackers. T-SHI-RTS ONLY $350 SMALL-MEDIUM LARG E-X-tAR GE AVAILABLE IN THE ALUMNI OFFlCE LAMONT HOUSE OONOORDIENSIB~ October 16, 1980 Home co Union President John S. Morris presents last year's Brown Cup to Phi Gamma Delta President Rich Gagnan~ ·so. · Chet Arthur's Birt~day Party ·To Highlight Weekend Here The average citizen's list of American presidents probably wouldn't include Chester A. Arthur; perhaps that is because his presidnecy was one of peace and plenty rather than war or depression. But if he's not known to the average citizen, \Chet'' Arthur is a popular man on the Union campus, where a staue of the 1848 graduate is a favorite gathering place. Campus visitors will find the statue frequently adorned with everything from beer cans to balloons to brassieres. Arthur, whose birthday was o-bserved last Sunday at his graveside in Albany Rural Cemetery, Menands, will be honored at Union Saturday, Oct. 18. As part of the college's Homecoming activities, Arthur will be feted with a birthday party at 5:30p.m., in front of his statue at the entrance to Jackson's Garden. The celebration .will be complete with birthday cake, choruses of happy birthday, and a brief talk by Manfred Jonas, chairman of the Union History Department. After graduating from Union, Arthur began practicing law in New YorK City. In 1872, he was named Collector of the Port of New York and became a leading Republican organization leader in the city. The 1880 Republican national convention nominated James A. Garfield for president and Arthur for vice-president. Presidnet Garfield was shot the next year and Arthur became president. .... . His administration saw the passage of a Civil Service Reform Act and the creation of a. new, strong navy. His chief- achievement, according to some, ·was the style and character he brought to the office. Woodrow Wilson said his papers showed a man of \unusual capacity, information \' and literary power. He seemed to make his choef appointments with a view to the efficiency of the public service, rather than with a view to political ad- vantage.\ . Arthur, ill, was not chosen by the Republicans in 1884. Two years later he died. Chet Arthur, '48, to celebrate 150th birthday 9:30am 10:30 am 10:30 atn 10:30 am 11:00 am 11:30 am 11:30 am 11:30am1 3:30pm 1:30 pm 2:00pm 3:30pm 4:30 pm to 5:30 pm 5:30 pm AFTERNOI & EVENIN Expt

Saturday, Oct. 18 9:30am 10:30 am 10:30 am 10:30 am 11:00 am 11:30 am 11:30 am 11:30 am to 3:30pm 1:30 pm 2:00 pm 3:30 pm 4:30pm to 5:30 pm 5:30 pm AFTERNOON & EVENING BREAKFAST WITH FOOTBALL TEAM Welcome Union's new Coach Joe Wirth & the 1980 Squad. \Dutch Treat\ in West College. · VOLLEYBALL vs. H.V.C.C. Memorial Fieldhouse ACADEMIC PRESENT A TIONS·REC- EPTIONS--Departments have arranged programs, tours, discussions, etc. Meet faculty, students & alumni friends. WHIPPLE TRUSS DEDlCATION-- Located near Achilles Rink. Civil Engineering Dept. invites everyone to participate. CROSS-COUNTRY vs .. R.P .I. Finish-line at Alexander Field track, approx: 11:20 a.m. SOCCER vs. TRINITY Garis Field J.V. SOCCER vs. TRINITY Daley Field LUNCH, ETC, Look for refreshments on Lamont House lawn. Beverages, hot dogs, hamburgers, etc.-before & during the game. HOMECOMING PARADE Follow .'the fun--our ·1st Annual Homecoming Parade in & around campus\ floats, bands, etc. ending at Alexander Field. FOOTBA·LL vs. TRlNITY Alexander Field Half-Time,_.President John S. Morris will present the Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy and the float awards. +Classes of '78, '79 & 1 80 will be guests. of the Alumni Council for the Football Game. Each alwnnus-a may pick- up ONE ticket at the Alumni Office. RUGBY A TEAM vs. R.P.I. Library .Field RUGBY B TEAM vs. ALUMNI Library Field ·Alumni interested in playing call the Alumni Qffice by Friday, October lOth. PRESIDENT'S RECEPTION Immediately following the football game, .everyone is invited to greet Dr. & Mrs. Morris in beautiful Jackson's Garden (or in Alumni Gym if the weather is in- clement). Music by, ·Union's Jazz En.semble. · · CHESTER A. ARTHUR'S 150th BIR- THDAY CELE6RATJQN Join us for cake and song at Chet Arthur's statue. FRATERNITY & SORORITY HOMECOMING PARTffiS OONOORDJENBIS, October 16, 1980 Page 9 - Radio station WG Y (810) will br.oadcast live from 10 a.m. to 10 p.rn. this Saturday, on the lawn between Lamont House and Alexander Field. Whipple Bridge Here To Be Dedicated Saturday~ After 18 months of work by more than 50 civif engineering students and fa.c.ulty members here,. a reconstructed 58-foot histoPic truss bridge will he dedicated at the College at 11 .. a.m. Saturday, Oct. lB. The dedication ceremonies, part of Homecoming Weekend, will take place on the bridge, which is located behind Achilles Rink. Participants, along with members of the Union com- munity, will include local contractors and suppliers who contributed to the recon- struction project. · The bridge · is of a type patented by its engineer in- ventor,. Squire Whipple, who was a Union alumnus; (class of 1830) and is considered to be \the father of scientific bridge building.\ Whipple was the first person to correctly analyze· the stresses in bridge designs, and is best known for flis book A Work on · B~idge Building, published in 1847, which h.elped change bridge building from an art to a science. _ Prior to April, 1979, the bridge spanned the Cayadutta Creek in Johnstown, one of five Whipple truss bridges known to exist in Eastern New York. At that time it was an ·unused pedestrian bridge, though it apparently was once part of an old mill route. The City of Johntown donated the bridge to Union last year for reconstruction as a Assistant Civil Engineering Professor Richard R. Pikul and Professor Francis E. Griggs, Jr., chairman of the College Civil Engineering Department. This past summer, the bridge was lowered in place over the · Hans Groot's Kill, behind Achilles Rink, and now serves as a pedestrian walkway. historic landmark. The actual reconstruction of the bridge, which is ap- proximately 115 years old, has beftn accomplished by Union civil engineering students, under the .direction of former Union will apply to the American Spciety of Civil Engineers to have the Whipple bridge designated a national civil engineering historic landmark, Griggs said. Saturday continued 7:00pm 8:00pm & 11:00 pm 8:30 pili 9:00pm & 11:00 pm ' 10:30 pm VICTORY VITTLES Dutch Hollow Pub All you can eat baked turkey, glazed ham, variety of salads, vegetables, desset'ts, etc. Adillts-$6.50, Under 12-. $3.25. Due to .limited seating, early RESERVATIONS are required by calling the Alumni Office. Invite your family & friends. MOVIE \10\ Room 016, Social Sciences Bldg. Tickets- ·$1.25 at the door. MEN'S & WOMEN'S GLEE CLUB CONCERT-Memorial Chapel Featuring music by Cole Porter & George Gershwin. STUDENT-ALUMNI CABARET Carnegie Hall Reserved seats. Tickets are $1.50 & will be available at the door. VICTORY CELEBRATION FIREWORKS Daley Field Sunday, Oct. 19 9:00am to 12:00 noon 11:00 am 11:45 am HOMEGOlNG BRUNCH Dutch Hollow Pub-All you can eat buffet! Adults--$3.00, Under 12-$1.25 ORGAN RECITAL BY HUGH ALLEN WILSON-Memorial Chapel BELLS CONCERT BY PETER K. SMITH '70-Memorial Chapel Expect a big crowd at Alexander Field for Saturday's .football game against lrini.ty. 11:00 am to 1:00pm HILLEL LOX & BAGEL BRUNCH Kosher Kitchen (West College) Everyone is invited. Members $1.00 Non-Members $2.00.

Page .10 OONO,ORDIJj]N_BIS, October 16, 198~ lture Women's. Glee Club Never Stops Singing li'OMECOMING WELCOME BACK ALUMNI 1st ACT: Profs. Tidmarch and Nydegger · and the Undergrads 2nd ACT: Jeff Battin MC TO·BE ANNOUNCED SHOWS Aif:OOandn:OO SATURDAY, OCT. 18 Watch fo.r Ticke.ts in Carnegie SEE YOU THERE·! Animal Crackers By LISA LIVSIIIN By CATHY AVERSA The weather may be turning cold and blustery, but the Union College Women's Glee Club is rec;idy to warm your hearts in a joint concert., featuring \Gersh- win and Porter on· Love,\ with the Union College Men;s Glee Club this Saturday, Oct. 18, at 8:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel Hugh Allen Wilson, . director, will also conduct the Women's Glee Club in Brahms' ''Ave Maria,\ Thomas Weelkes' \Though My Carriage Be But Careless,\ The Spinning Chorus from Wagner's \The Flying Dutchman,\ . and ''Petites Voix,\ byFranci~ Poulenc. The concert is one\ of the special events in Union's Homecoming '80 Weekend. The Women's Glee Club has planned a busy a~tumn schedule; In addition to the Home(mming Concert, they will 'be participating in the Women's 'Festival with the Wheaton College Glee Club and Simmons Glee Club on Saturday, October 25, in Brookline, Mass. On Friday, November 14, UC's Women's Glee Club joins the RPI Men's Glee Club in a concert featuring selections from \Frostiana at 8 .p.m. on the RPI campus. The Union College Women's Glee Club has been in existence for several years and, contrary to popular belief,-it is not an extension of UC's Men's Glee Club; theW omen's Glee Club is a separate organization, although it sbares the direction of Hugh Allen Wilson and often performs with the gentlemen. More News Poetry . . Contest From smythe A $1000 grand prize will be Yes, we at Smythe have recovered fronn our dead celebrity bash in . honor of .Eustas. We would like to apologize if we offended anyone, but Eustas P. Smythe's legend cannot be denied. And just think, in a hundred years or so someone may be dressing up as you-all you have to do is become a· celebrity. awarded in the Sixth Annual F' all Poetry Competition sponsored by the World .of :t;>oetry, a quarterly newsletter for· poets. Poems of all styles and on any subject are eligible to compete for the grand prize or for 49 cash and merchandise awards. Rules and official entry forms are available from World of Poetry, 2431 Stockton Blvd.,. Dept. N, Sacramento 1 .California 95817. The Women's Glee - Club practices twice a week in Old ChapeL Even though this years budget has been cut con- siderably, president Maria Palasits expressed that she .and vice president Cathy Rusik are anticipating an exciting and productive musical year. UNION COLLEGE COFFEE HOUSE presents ... Singer- Comedian Howie Newman Friday, October 17 at 8:30 in the Cabaret .Room Coffee, Tea,&. Doughnuts Will Be\Served! Admission: $1~00 - I was sitting at my desk recently, intent on Experimental Psychology, drinking my TAB and smoking a cigarette. My mind wandered for a second and I glanced up at my pack of cigarettes and read, \The Surgeon General has determineO. that cigarette smoking is dangerous to your health.\ I felt my usual twinge ~f guilt and reached for my TAB, whereupon I saw on the label, \This product bas been determined to cause cancer in laboratory animals.\ NOW I know why they call it TAB'- because eventually you're going to .pay for drinking that stuff. Now, I've failed to mention that I live in Fox-you know, the dorm with asbestos on the ceilings. .We all know about asbestos ... Well if it's not one thing it's anothev ... You can't let anything fool you in an age where a product named RELY (can you beat that one for irony?) is killing women. there has always been something very natural about Animal Crackers-maybe that's because they're the•first cookies Mom allowed us to eat. Anyways, while I was eating some today, I half expected to see on the box, \These crackers have been detertnio~d to cause cancer in pre-toilet trained infants.\-but you know I didn't. I did discover something else though. You probably thought they were .called Animal Crackers because they came in cute little animal shapes. Wrong! They call them Animal Crackers becaW!Ie they're made with Animal shortening! ! ! Yep, I read it on the box. YUCK ... - what in actuality is that stuff!!? I tend to think it's animal fat from all those adorable giraffes, camels, antelopes, and juggling cubs displayed on the box. So, if you were one of those kids who hated to eat the little limbs because you thought of them as real parts of the animal you've been justified in your thinking all along. Who knows what part of the body they get that animal shortening from? I have just eaten my last Animal Cracker ... Is nothing sacred? We would also like to thank all the corpses that rose to the occassion. House members who attended included: John Wayne (The Duke), Gary Gilmore, Elvis Presley, Bing Crosby, Jesus Christ, Bonnie and Clyde, Marilyn Monroe, Grateful Dead Heads; a trampled Who fan, the l,OOOpondman (who was buried in a piano case), Veronica Lake, Morris the Cat, Mikey (his stomach burst from drinking Drano), and Bruce Lee. Bruce Flows On On to what's really bothering me .. .I often eat animal crackers, I find the pocket book boxes aesthetically pleasing; Old friends from the past included: Sid Vicious, Jimi Hendrix, Adolp Hitler, Fred and Ethel Mertz, Spider Sabich, Dr. Tarnower, Janis Joplin, ten Algerian earthquake victims, Charlie Chaplain, Pebbles, and Tommy Caldwell. And the best costume · .awards were presented to Helen Keller and the toxic shock victim. Notice to All MaiOrs HEAR ABOUT·CAREERS-TALK WITH ALUMNI Friday, October 17, 1980-3-4:30 Humanities Bldg. f BUSINESS AND FINANCE Room 1151 Ted Englevist ('57) New York Telephone Company John Mastriani ( ~74) Key Banks Paul Gallant ('62) Grey Advertising Agency GOVER.NMENT. Room 117 John Levine '80) Legislative Bvdget Analyst Charles Assini ('78) Legislative Asst., Sen. Farley James Tedisco ('72) City Councilman I LAW. Room 114] Atty. Jerrold Hirschen ('57) Housing and Commercial Development Atty. Daniel Riesel ('58) Envi,ronmental Law Atty. Cant~ Scaccia ( '45) Litigation Judge Lawrence Kahn ( 1 59) N. Y.S Supreme Court Atty. Simeo Gallo {'58) Education Law and Public Labor Law ByBOBFOX Courtesy of WQBK-FM, Bruce Springsteen's new album flowed over the airwaves into numerous cassette decks Monday night. Doubtless many Springsteen worshippers have the album already, (it hit the record stores Tuesday), and it should get plenty of air time on the radio, so if you haven't heard it yet, you will soon. This is Springsteen's fifth album, and his first double album. It's called \The River.\ Rumors were flying dtiring Bruce's two year lull that his next release would be a double live album. They were just rumors though, this is all previosly unreleased material, but you may recognize some songs frmn past· Springsteen touts, for instance, ''Independence Day,\ \Sherry Darling,\ \The River,\ and \Point Blank.\ The lack of a live release won't upset many people;. there are almost as many bootleg concert tapes as there are Springsteen fans. The songs on the new record reflect Bruce in a characteristic way; cars and girls are major topic,as usual. Backing up Springsteen is the · same E- Street Band that appeared on \Darkness on the Edge of Town.\ Roy Bittan, Clarence Clemons, D~nny Federici, Gary Tallent, Steve Van Zandt and Max Weinberg have shown again that they can play Springsteen'stWles just the way he likes them. The E-Street Band is the backbone of this album. Springsteen is still as strong as he ever was, it's just that the music would be empty without the band. They play it like no one else; they have style. Maybe I was expecting something new and different from Bruce, the album is good, no denying that, but it's the same stuff. I hope when I get my hands on the album, there is a copy of the lyrics with it. That always helps. · Volunteers Needed Skilled and unskilled volunteers are currently being sought by Capital Repertory Company, Albany~s new, professional resident theater company. The company; which is opening a three play season at Page Hall on the downtown SUNY A campus December 3, is looking for interested in- dividuals to work with the company's administrators;· actors, designers, technicians and office staff on a wide . variety of tasks. Immediate - assistance is needed at Capital Repertory Company's office on 69 Columbia Street in Albany. Volunteers can help with mailings, typing, phone calling and other tasks such as poster and flyer distribution. Volunteers will also be needed at Capital Rep receptions and parties, and as ushers at the theater. Production volunteers will be needed in . the costume shop and in many areas of set construction throughout the season. Anyone interested in becoming a Capital Rep volunteer should call Chris Ioele or Kathleen Angus at the . Capital Rep offices, 462-4531, to discuss scheduling and volunteer assignments. ·1n By I Reh, the u produ1 Tbe C thedir K.Smi cross- Colleg, Stud Union Senior David Clark, so phon Larry Kirsch Baker. Fam elude a played ter's p Sisters Butter Livshir Search Marka• and T. Carney Hairy . Three Ape hir speech marve. winter', be forg Revi Byl Thuts me.By1 around, sleep. H to revi~ one tort stumble Cabaret the fac amongo a surpri The f Steve M Leslie a1 Steve pl started but as t1 more c formanc I really of Dylar \Good I Rascals compani song). B Leslie a tolling fonnanc Leslie's jokes. TheSE guitarist was juSj slight d: formanc' music, ,., to the f s

- 0 :l s l I ~ l CONCORf)lENSIS, October 16, 1980 Pa~ell 'In Rehearsal For • • • By DEMETRA PON.TISAKOS Rehearsals are underway for the upcoming Union Art's production of Arthur Miller's The Crucible. The cast, under the direction of Professor Barry K. Smith, includes an interesting cross-section of the Union College population. Students rehe(lrsing for their Union Theater debut include Seniors Carmen Martinez, David Handler, and Randy Clark, junior Chris Phelan, sophomores Stephanie Zigman, Larry Salberg and Lenny Kirsch, and freshman Elizabeth Baker. Other familiar faces include Tom Farrell, who has executed major roles in just about every Union Colleg.e dramatic production these past three years, except, of course, But- terflies Are Free which he directed 'last spring term; and thE Stage manager to that same production, Demetra Pon· tisakos, who has also played a wide variety of parts in Union Theater. In addition, Barry Smith has also cast Daro Beninati, Union's very talented stage technician, along with Daro's uncle, Charles Beninati. Doctor Will Roth of Union's biology ~ department will also be 2 , creating a role in this term's u prod~ction, ;:~s will the Union 02 College Department of the Art's very own ''superwoman'', depa:rtrnent secretary Irma Hamilton who is well-known in _s the Tri-dty area for her 0 dedicated participation in a commll:Ili.ty theater and the if Ill. 'i: ro .c u culture Familiar faces involved in- clude alumnus John Gaines Who played Vershinin in last win• ter's production of The Three Sisters, and Don Baker in Butterflies Are Free, Lisa Livshin from Six Characters in Search of an Author, Ilene Markay from The Three Sisters and The Hairy Ape, Jean Carney and Carol Ghinger from Hairy Ape, Andy Levine from Three Sisters, and the Hairy Ape himself, Dan Lacoff whose speech about his '' three marvelous sisters\ in last winter's production will never be forgotten. arts. · This diversified and quite talented cast will be guided by the stage management of Ken Altman, fitted by the costuming expertise of Sandy Beninati, and performing on a set which will be designed by Professor Charles Steckler. (From left) Chris Phelan, John Gaines, Lisa Livshin, Dan Lacoff and David Handler, rehearse for this term's production of Arthur Miller's The Crucible. The History of Western Review: Cabaret Art In 700 Words (or so) By GILLE ANN RABIN because the guys who . x:-.un . . . . : . .. · CAAaret yushed_, Iter .boqkipg2,Up Thui'sflay Was a'tougb~daY tQr! ·~a t~rm, a~rd~snfhM.n't h'ad .. tifue me. By the time 9 o'clock rolled to learn all the songs. However, around, all I wanted to do was Robin has a beautiful voice sleep. However, I had promised which <>utshone any confusion to review Cabaret. Not being caused by her music. I loved her one to renege on my promises, I choice <>f songs, and especially stumbled over the threshold of enjoyed Carole King's Cabaret, expecting to be hit in \TapestryH and Jim Croce's the face by flying peanuts, \Alabama Rain.\ Robin, you among other things. Was I in for were great-we look forward to a surprise! your next Cabaret. The first act consisted of The Emcee of the evening Steve Marks and Leslie Nadel. was Mi]{e Andolina. U that Leslie and Steve both sang, and name sounds vaguely familiar, Steve played the guitar. They it's because Mike is assistant started off on the shakey side Dean of Students. Preppily but as they relaxed and gained (sic?) dressed (I think I may more confidence their per- have 'caught sight of an formance improved markedly. alligator), he came close to I really enjoyed their rendition giving Cabaret an almost classy of Dylan's \The Weight\ and ambience--okay, maybe not \Good Lovin' \ by the Little classy, but definitely les~ Rascals. (Jeff Battin ac- dervis1l·like than usual. Mike companied them during this _was very relaxing, and put all in song). By the end of their act, a mellow mood for what turned Leslie and Steve were really outto be a mellow Cabaret (love rolling along, their per- that word mellow). It would be formance indubitably aided by fun to see what would happen if Leslie's . attempts at elephant more faculty took part in jokes. · Cabaret! The second act was singer- r really enjoyed Cabaret of guitarist Robin Molella, who Octoberl}th. After a hard day, it was just delightful. The only wa.s great to go somewhere to slight drawback to her per- relax and unwind. And yes, it is formance was her use of sheet possible to experience Cabaret music, which as she explained without having one single to the audience, was used peanut bounce off your head. By DEMETRA PONTISAKOS I pity today's freshman. Yes, I pity him. Do you know why? B~.G~U~e he iS, eati~g #s meals at West College Dining Hall· which just isn't the same as it used to be. It just isn't! Why when I was a college freshman, meals were nauseating at West. I mean everyone got to go back to their rooms after every meal and feel sick to death for, say, a good six hours. But, no, not anymore-freshmen . today are missing out. The food is better these days. You know, it's sad though, freshmen; it isn't just the tradition of indigestion_.. and stomach ache you're missing out on: You-because you were lazy and didn't graduate from high school two or three years early -have let an entire era of western artistry slip by un- noticed. I mean, if nothing else, we had a bunch of artists at West _these past few years - right down to the students who ate there. It was an age of 'ec- clecticism. I mean we · had everything. For example, take the cooks. They were all into surrealism and Avant Garde. (I mean-no one frJes turkey except surrealists - okay?) They never realized how inflexible a DUTCH HOLLOW ~-PUB S·PECIALS FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17 \' .. BEEF & BREW 5:00-8:00 Free Salad Bar, Pitcher <>f Beer or Carafe of Wine with Ever:y Meal SATURDAY, OCTOBER 18 VICTORY VITTLES 5:00-8:00- All You Can Eat Baked Turkey, Glazed Ham, Variety of Salads, Vegetables & Desserts. Reservations for \lictory Vittles Call 370-6051 medium food is. Ah well, they couldn't help it; they were just a bunc~ of . misguided . ab- . stractists, thc:1t's all (at our . expense;, Tj:J.anks). I'm tfl].king, you'i:l ask the server what that purple and yellow stuff was and she'd say, \Broccoli alfredo ala mode.\ and you'd say, \Oh I see, yeah, like ... real ... ere .. · . a ... tive ... like ... I think I'll have cereal.\ And the server would say, \Shut up you FRESH KID! ! ! \ So, of course you felt guilty and obligated to eat it. Yumm. Then at lunch you'd look at the soup. Everything in the soup was in square chunks - even the peas for God's sakes!!! I thought at first that this was to disguise all the leftovers in it, but now that- I think of it, I think the soup chefs were heavily into \cubism\ like to a psychopathological extreme ... Of course, the big dream in life of many of these arti~:~ts was to become the next Leonardo da Vinci. This explains the ever- increasing daily production of dissatisfied female students - the \Moaning Lisa's\ of the period. · Of course, with all this artistic creativity armmd, some began to rub off on the students as we11 1 and I found rn~ny aspiring Michelangelos among my peers. You wouldn't believe what a kid your age could make sausage and eggs look like - especially at brunch when he also had broccolli, chick peas, and some goo left over from Friday to use as glue, to work with ·WOW! !And ju~t give any engineer or art's major a knife and some stone-! mean steak- and you w~1uldn't believe what he could prnduce: I'm talking great masterworks .of art. It was indeed a budding era for art, but the era came to a relatively abrupt stop. You see, no one was eating well. At all. The artistic population was e;,tisting on ice cream and huge chocol~te-chip .cookies. That was it. This kind of diet stunted the creative growth-the very artistic _development - of the young artisans, and their in- spirers (the cooks and workers) were consequently put out to pasture. Yes, sad as it was, the Western Art Era came to a screeching halt in its infancy. Woe is me. But, woe is you even more my dear freshman student, for you surely missed a once in a lifetiine cultural experience. Oh sure, there are glimpses of the glorious past, there are traces of the lost civilization of the Western Artists, but it just is not the same. However, I must admit that I noticed a possible sign of revival - (of rebirth-yes of RENAISSANCE!!!) just Last Friday: The mil.k was leaking, I mean really leaking, and then someone slipped on it and dropped his breakfast tray full of raisin bran, fried eggs. tomato juice and orange juice (just imagine those lovely colors!) all over on top of it all. That was the base- the mere foundation. Very soon af- terwards, 200 hungry freshman walked in and stomped all over it. 200 freshmen! That's 401J feet! That's 4000 little freshmen toes stomping all over it (unle~s, of course, you coWlt that weirdo in your computer class with seventeen toes on each foot ... and you wondered how he could add so quickly ... 1 Stomping. Smearing, Smudging: Creating! Yes, CREATING!!! with their clever little feet. Now that's art. It may sound pop-artish to those of you who experienced or have studied the traditional era, but at least it's a sign of life, a flash of hope, and perhaps the beginning of an equally brilliant period ... Junior DEMETRA M. PONTISAKOS will be performing t~is weekend, October 17th and 18th, and next weekend, October· 24th and 25th at the Ground Round on State Street in Schenectady. BE THERE!

Page 12 OONyORDIENBIS, October 16, 1980 classifi~\)s BULLETIN BOARD ATTENTION: There will _be an important Garnet Staff rneeting on Monday, October 20th ·at 4:00 in Conference Room A. We must set up the format of the book, and set deadli,nes. Please attend. If you can 1 not, !'Ontact Jeff at 6648.~ Sunday, October 19th Campus Ministry Mass: Rev. William · Bourdeau, Director of the Albany Diocesan Diaconate Program. Public Health officials say they are concerned because the rate of Rubella (German Measles), which has. been linked to birth defects, has increased among those in the 20- 24 yr. old age group. Students, staff and faculty of child bearirrg\' age requesting additional information may stop by the Health Service between the hours of 1:00 PM and 5:00 PM every Saturday and Sunday. Pre-law Students: Tom Heyer, Union graduate, now a 3rd year student at Cornell University Law School will interview Union students in- terested in Cornell Law School at the Placement Office, 'Friday, October 17, 1:00-3:30 P.M: The Jazz Ensemble will perform Saturday in Jackson's Garden (alumni gym in the · event of inclement weather) at 4:30 p.m.· Carrer and Placement--A representative will be on campus on Tuesday afternoon, October 21, 1980, to speak with students about their Master's program in Public Policy. They will .be here from 2:00-4:00 PM. Please stop by and sign up. DEPARTMENT Oli' COM- MERCE .(Patent & Trademark Office) wH:l be recruiting on campus on Monday, November 17, 1980 for C.E.'s, E.E.'s, & M.E.'s for Patent Examiners. This is a government position with no .test involvep. Sign-ups on November 2 at ]:0:30 AM. Veterans Administration has unexpected openings ~.for the School of Electron Microscopy at the Albany VA Medical Center this Fall. The program provides the opportunity for a career as an Electron M i c.ro scopic Technologist dealing in one of the most modern aspects of technology. Interested persons contact Dr. Paul Urban ll3A, Electron Microscopy Unit, Veterans Administration Medical Center, Albany, New York 12208. We have further information in the Placement Office. The Brothers of Kappa Sigma would like to take this op- portunity to thank everyone who helped make our ·party, this past Saturday at old chapel. a success. We couldn't have done it without the help of our Star Dusters, friends, or all of you who attended. Hope to see you at our next party! · Attention: There will be a meeting- Thursday, Octot>er 23 in Steinmetz 301 at 4: 30 for anyone interested in applying for Graduate school in Biology. There area few copies of THE'~ 1 FRESHMAN RECORD on sale in the Office of Student Affairs. They are available on a first come basis at $6.00 each. - ·seniors: Please check in Strauss Lo~nge Monday 0tober 20 from 9.:00 a.m. till noon to see if your pmofs are ready, If you have any questions see Mrs. Marra in Student Activities. PERSONALS • Yeu never know love until you lose it. S.E._;There's a phone call. S.E.-You're such an OP- TIMIST!! S.E.~Stand up straight!!!!!!! S.E.-We love you anyway, M &B. Shelly and Elaine-It's not c'old in here! To the brothers of Theta Delta Chi, Thanks so much for or- dering our kegs and helping to . make our party a success. love, Richmond \Computer Simulation1 It was my take off· to a great future.\ Becorrung a Link Engineer has made a big difference in my career I wanted a challenge. And the chance to design something exciting. Lmk g1ves me that chance and more. Modem simulation technology was born at our company more than fifty years ago and ever since then we've been the ind;ustry's leader in the design and manu1acturtng of aviation and aerospace training devices. Our trainers can realistically fly you from New Yorl\: to LA and Houston to the moon without ever leaving their hangar Link • DIVI~Oh Of IHI s I N G E RCDMI\Iil Binghamton. New York 13902 We're looking for graduates with degrees in Engineering (EE, ME, IE) Computer Science, Physics and Business. See us on ccnnpus or contact AC. Esworthy - Li.nk Division of Singer, Bingha:II?-ton, New York (607) 772-3561. Link Simulation is Future Engineering ON·CAMPUS INTERVIEWS UNION COLLEGE . FRIDAY OCTOBER 17, 1980 Equal Opportunity Employer M/F To Jim Hogan and Jake Mosher, Thanks for delivering our beer. Your time and energy WeFe greatly appreciated. Love, Richmond To all the girls of Richmond who worked so hard to make our party a success- THANKS!.! ! To Kissy Lips, I wish you wouldn't giggle so much. Love ya, .Smacky Face Dear John, WHAT???? Julie~Pinky to YOU! Love, Cory Shorty~You're cute. Can I kiss you on the cheek? Love, Shorty Tamie--Hah! for Thanksgiving! Love, Cory Kel and Leesh--Staying sober? L&K, Cory and JHI ~.S.: Thank you for being a friead. G.V. Julie-Here's a personal. Is that enough? Shelly-What's the problem? Tamie--I love you, You're great. . Carolyn--I wouldn't kill myself if you paid me. Cindy-One of these nights.! · Look out! Love, Charis Mark-A personal for me? Love and kisses, Charis Julie--Have. fun in New Orleans. Deme Deme-You're a nut. Deme Cory-Here's one. Cory--And· here's another! Love, Deme Hi Roomie! Love ya, Charis Bert: Have a wu-nnerful weekend! Love you, CJ Maria: Yay for orgo! Love, Cory Hey Gudo! You got no ass, baby, .(but you're cute). Blue Skies No More Continued from page 2 be a NATO command station. Even as you read this bit of literary magnificence, you are being hardened so that you may survive the hardships of war. That is why there is no heat in the dorms or hot water for the showers. We are being con- ditioned. Even the \Food Czar\ has not gone unaffected; the Pentagon has asked Angelo to , raise the quality of our food so that we will not notice when we go on C-rations. My recommendation is that Union not overreact to this situation. Against such a force as the Pentagon, we can do very little. Perhaps we would be best advise.P to prepare mentally for what could await us in the very near future. Area Calendar· CONCERT October 24-The Capitol Hill Chapel Society will present Gabriel Faure's Requiem\ and Zoitan Kodaly' s \Miss a Brevis.\ The concert will begin at 8 p.m., at Philip Schuyler Concert Hall on North Lake A venue, Albany. For further information, call 457-5519. EXHIBITIONS October 20-Jan. 4-The State Education Department will sponsor an exhibit entitled \New York Labelled and Documented Furniture\_ It will be lield on the fourth floor Terrace Gallery in the New York State Museum in Albany from 10 am to 5 pm. For J:l}.Ore information, call 474..;5842. October 22-Jan. 6-The State Education Department will sponsor an exhibit entitled \Vegetable Soup\. What ingredients go into the making of this T.V. show? The exhibition will be held in the West Gallery in the New York State Museum in Albany from 10 am. to 5 pm. For more- information, call 474-5842. FILMS \.October 20-23-Russell Sage College will present the film \Roots\. The four consecutive showings will be shown at 7 p.m. at the Schacht Fines Art-s Center:_. For more information, call 27H-2344. · October 23..,. The New York Scotland Branch of the Albany P.ublic Library will feature the film \The Five Pennies\ starring Danny Kaye and Barbara BelGeddes. The film will be shown at 1: 30 p.m. For · more information, call 449~3380. October 24--The Albany Public Library will feature the Japanese film \Fires on the Plain\. This film shown with English subtitles will be presented in the Main Library, 161 Washington A venue at 8 pm. For more information, call 449- 3380~ TOURS October 18--The Hudson- Mohawk Industrial Gateway is sponsoring a bus tour of the Poestenkill. Participants are to assemble at 9 pm. at the Poestenkill Gorge Historical Park in Lindon Avenue in Troy. For further information, can· 27 4-05267. ~ -MEET NEW PEOPLE-HELP OTHERS- I 0 z -1 ::r: m L 0 OJ m >< 1l m ;:o lnfonnation on . Volunteerism -Comes to Union -BEGINNING OCT. 29-- 3 p.m.-5 p.m. in STUDENT AFFAIRS OFFICE m z Just stop by or call 6061 for a· personal n- pointment with a Representative from I Human Services Planning CounciL I s )> 7\ m . < )> r c )> OJ r' m n ~- .. -1 ap-l> theCl, (/) I - By Ali: secon1 series theM be s Octob is ~ melod piece Fassb The·~ was sl \Ali in lov cleanj Moroc who i~ are lo one.ne one w• the di~ friend~ their o their c The prejuc triumJ: It is a only OJ explor~ but al~ that tb front o outsidE intern<i theCa the Si11 Film F In ·A mE the latr profes Schene held l servicE Milam lounge of the c attend. I¥Jr. 1 was J1 Emerit College He was from 19 1961, an as chai: of Hist< Born Doty w. Method and th sylvani• Rhodes taught Univen Union f; veteran At UI both thE Internal After hi taught College several He is and a n Psi Cb Society: for the t:: stimulat scholars the :;;cie1 organiza goals. F society, recognit mere f, Second, the indi active at enhance of psych is exem1 night's F see the Elephan Albft.ny. TheUJ Psi Chi formed l officers

Film Series By SIGRID KELLENTER Ali: Fear Eats tbe Soul is the second film in the German film series sponsored this term .by the Minerva Committee:- It wiU be shown next Tuesday, October 21, at 7:30 in SS 016. Ali is a deeply affecting melodrama, a .small master- piece by Rainer Werner Fassbinder whose latest film, The 'Marriage of Maria Braun, was shown last week. \Ali\ is the story of the falling in love of an older German cleaning woman and a Moroccan immigrant laborer who is 20 years younger. Both are lonely-a widow whoJII no one needs, an outsider whom no one wants. They, triwnph over the dismayed criticism of their friends and they are defeated by their own failing to understand their cultural differences. The film is about love, prejudice, racism and the triumph of routine over passion. It is a spectacular success not only on the human level of its exploration of two individuals but also on the social plane in that the fiJm forces us to con- front our own attitudes towards outsiders. The film won the international Critics Prize at the Cannes Film Festival and the Silver Hugo at the Chicago Film Festival. In Memoriam ' A memorial service honoring the late Joseph D. Doty, Union professor and long-time Schenectady · resident, will be held here this Friday. The service will begin at 2 p.m. in Milano Lounge, the. upper lounge of Hale House. Members of the community are invited to attend. J¥1r. Doty, who died July 19, was John Bigelow Professor Emeritus of History at Union College at the time of his death. He was a member .of the faculty from 1928 until his retirement in 1961, and served for many years as chairman of the Department of History. Born in Graham, Texas, Mr. Doty was educated at Southern Methodist University, Oxford, and the University of Penn- sylvania. He was named a Rhodes scholar in 1918. He taught at Southern Methodist University before joining the Union faculty, and was an Army veteran of World War I. At Union, Mr. Doty founded both the Pre-Law Club and the International Relations Club. After his retirement in 1961, he taught history at the Albany College of Pharmacy for several years. . He is survived by two nieces and a nephew. ' Psi Chi Psi Chi is the National Honor Society in Psychology, founded for the purpose of encouraging, stimulating and maintaining scholarship in, and advancing · the ~cience of Psychology. The organization serves two major goals. First, being an honor society, it provides academic recognition to its initiates by the mere fact of , membership. Second, and more importantly, the individual chapters make active attempts to augment and enhance the regular curriculum of psychology. This second goal is exemplified by last Sunday night's Psi Chi sponsored trip to see the acclaimed play \The Elephant Man., at the Egg in Albany. · · The Union College Chapter of Psi Chi is a fairly recently formed institution. This year's officers are Adritme Issler, OONOORD11!1NS18~ OctobeT 16, 1980 Page 13 roun president; Fran Davis; vice president, and Steve Geller, secretary-treasurer. Prof. Greenberg is this year's ad• viser. Members must have taken at least three psychology courses; and have a 3.2 cum in psychology and a 3.0 ovet·au cum. Those interested in ap- plying shauld leave a sheet of paper listing psychology courses and grades received in the Psi Chi mailbox at the bottom of the stairs in the Psychology building, Psi Chi wi}l hold an open meeting for members and all those interested November 11, at 7 p.m. in 113 Psych. ' Deadline Set The deadline for proposals to the Internal Education Foun- dation in two categories-- student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects--falls on Oct. 31. Notification for awards in both categories will be made by Nov. 15. The deadline applies to proposals for projects to be undertaken during the winter and-or spring terms. Proposals for student- initiated research projects must have the written approval\ of a .faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The preposals should be submitted to the Assistant to the Vice President for Academic Affairs office on .forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Last year, in its third .Jffiar of operation, I.E.F. made awards totalling $105.,977 to 40 projects. The qpproved projects were among 54 requests for a total of $134,284. Some $100,000 has been provided by I.E.F. for the 1980- 81 academic year. To date, 16 projects totalling $63,249 have been approved. Inquiries about I.E.F. and proposal deadlines should l;Je directed to the Assistant to the Vice President fbr Academic Affairs. WILC·O I Morris NCJmed Union Pres,ident John S. Morris has been named to the new Advisory Council on Postsecondary Education by State Education Conunissioner Gordon M. Ambach. The council, which will provide advice to the State _Education Department, in· eludes two dozen leaders of postsecondary education in the state, including the chancellors of the State University and the City University of New York, the president arid the chairman of the Commission on Independent Colleges and Universities, and ·chief executive officers· from all sectors and all levels of post- secondary education. The council is expected to meet about every three months to discuss such matters as the tentative 1980 statewide plan for the . development of post- secondaryeducation, which will come before the Board of Regents in October. .. us Morris, former provost and dean of faculty at Colgate University, was inaugurated 16th pre~ident of Union College and loth chancellor of Union University in October, 1979. A native of Wales and a graduate of the University College of South Wales, Morris holds a B.A. and an M.A. from the University of Cambridge, an M.A. from Colgate, ani:l a Ph.D. from Colwnbia University. ' The author of a number of· works on the philosophy .of religion, he published ''The Place ·Of the Humanities in the Liberal Arts\ in Liberal Education. He is a member of the American Philosophical As so dation, American Academy of Religion, Royal Institute of Philosophy, Society for the Study of Theology, American Association for Higher Education, and the American Conference of Academic Deans. He and his wife, Enid Eiry Morris, also a native of Wales, have one son. I BACK TBIS BUD'S fOR YOUI KING.OF BEERS® • ANHEUSER·BUSCH, INC • ST LOUIS

Pa.ge 14 OONCOBD11iJN818, Octobe.r 16, 1980 5porte Women Sports Shine Volleyball . Clinic Lynn Barta, the women's volleyball coach, will hold a clinic . for all college, high school, and ·recreational coaches at the Union College Memorial Field House on Monday, October 20 from 7-9 p.m. Volleyball Division Ill schools that in- clude: Albany, Clarkson, New Paltz, Oneonta, Plattsburgh, .~~Potsdam, Russell Sage, St. Barta, who owns a 46-25 volleyball record since coming to Union in 1977, will cover 14 topics including: footwork, setting,. serve reception,. ser- ving, blocking, hitting, !iigging, rolls and sprawl, forearm pass, o~fensive patterns, defensive patterns, practice organization, player positions and how to determine them and game strategies. The fee for this clinic will be $10. Barta wiil also conduct a player's clinic on Sunday, October 26 from 1 to 4 p.m. The clinic, which is strictly skill oriented, will cover -footwork; setting, forearm pass, hitting, blocking, digging, and serving. Assisting Barta will be the players from the 1980 Union College Volleyball Squad. The fee for this clinic will be $3.50. Lynn Barta, women's Lawrence, Siena, Skidmore, Union and Vassar. The seeding for this event will be held November 9. volleyball coach, has been selected as the Area III re!)resentative for the New York Association for Inter- collllgiate Athletics for Women (AlA W) volleyball cham- pionship which will be held at Stony Brook on November 14 and 15. X-Country By WOMAN WITH DUTCHFEET This past Saturday, the Women's Cross Country team won the Capital District ·· Championships by defeating Albany State. The team was lead by second and third place finishers Polly Wheeler and Joan O'Connor, with strong performances by Colleen Morris (6th), Laura Kronk (7th), and Donna Morris (9th). The tenth and eleventh place finishes by Trish Moriarty and Audrey. Lewchik kept Albany's fifth woman from finishing in a desirable scoring position, aiding Union's victory. The team's next meet is Saturday, October 25, at Albany State, when they compete in the Albany Invitational. • Sarta is responsible for For further information on either clinic contact Lynn Barta between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. weekdays at 370-6284. IN PRACTICE FOR: Oct. 16 Oct. 18 Oct. 21 Oct. 24 Oct. 16 Oct. 24 Oct. 25 Oct. 18 Oct. 22 Oct. 24 l=ield Hockey Skidmore 3:30 R.Sage 3:00 RPI 3:30 States Tennis· Skidmore 3:30 States Cross Country Albany 12:00 Volleyball HVCC 10: 30 Skidmore Siena 7:00 Wheaton H H A H A H A A . TYPING Term pape.rs. Rates reasonable. Call 399- 7324 .Monday thru Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. ·-·-·- ............ ····· :·: Texas Instruments Semiconductor Group is coming with a challenge. What we do • Process Engineering Thxas Instruments Semiconductor Group is the world's leading supplier of semiconductor components and material. Located in Houston, Lubbock and Dallas, our number one position includes: • The industry'shroadest line of solid-state memories • The biggest seller in microcomputers • The leading 16-hit microprocessor family • Continued leadership in ITL technology • The industry's model facility VLSI processing Degrees sought: You should have a BS, MS, PhD, BBA or MBA with a technical degree in one of the following specialties: • Electrical Engineering and Electronics • Physics/Solid-State Physics • Mechanical Engineering • Material Science • Industrial Engineering • Chemical Engineering/Chemistry • Math • Computer Science • Accounting Areas of acti~ty • Device Design • System Design o Failure Analysis • Product Engineering • Process Development • Device Testing • Process Control • Quality Assurance • Device Engineering • Industrial Cm'ltrol Equipment • Strategic Marketing • Automotive & Custom Applications • Software & Development Systems • Applications • System Testing • Product Marketing • Production Planning • Manufacturing Supervision • Cost Accounting • Financial Planning \ Test Programming Live in Texas Texas Instruments has more to offer in Texas where it costs less to live. And there is no - state income tax. Campus Interviews Oct. 21-22 For further information and to sign up for an interview, contact Placement Office, Placement Career & Resources Bldg., Bldg. 30. lF~ftyYears 1 If unable to schedule an !ntet•view at this 1 nn6'Jat1Dn I time, send your resume m confidence ~'~ , to: Lois Bullock/Texas Instruments 1 7J 1 1 Incorporated, U.S. MOS OperationR/ i ' P.O. Box 1443, M.S. 6980/ L_ J Houston, Thxas 77001. TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED An equal opjlortunity employer M/F Field Hockey 9-30 Union 2, Siena 1 1:0-3 Union 0., Smith 0 1'0-8 Oneonta 2, Union 0 1:0-11 Union 4, Sage 1 ( Record 6-1-1) Cross Country 10-1 HamHton 21, Union 37 Union 26, St. Lawrence 33 Union 21, Oneonta 34 10-11 Union 27, Al:bany 30 VoUeyba.U 4'\ 10-1 Union 15,· New Pa-ltz 4; Union 15, New Paltz 9 Union 15, Vassar 8; Union 15,. Vassar s 10-6 Union 15, Le·Moyne 10; Union 15, LeMoyne 6; Union 15, LeMoyne 5 10-9 Union 15, North Adams 12; Union 15, North Adams 10 Williams 17, Union 15; Williams 15., Union 2 (Record 5-2) T . eoms Hamilton 4, Union 3 Colgate 4, Union 3 Union 5, RPI 2 Union 7, Oneonta 2 9-29 10-1 10-4 10-8 10-10 Hartwick 4, Union 3 (Record 3-4) Soccer 9-29 Siena 4, Union 1 10-3 Castleton 11, Union 1 10-8 RP.I 3, Union 1 (Record 0-4} Tennis News After the month of Sep- tember, the no. 2 doubles team of senior Debbie Hofflich and junior Linda Sher boasted a 2-0 record for the Union College women's tennis team. The no. 1 tandem of sophomore Karen Gebhardt and senior Shelly Eckstein had a record of 2-1, and Randi Ribakove, a junior, held a 4-3 record. As of October 13, Sher and Hofflich are still undefeated with . a record of 4-0, and Gebhardt and Eckstein are holding a record of 6-1. Ribakove's record is currently 4-3, and the team as a whole is presently 3-4. The Dutchwomen host Skidmore today at 3:30, before heading to the New York States on October 24 and 25. Field Hockey Statistics Name pos. Yr. Hometown Debbie Downey R I SR Amenia, N.Y. Ellen Heininger Ll Butha ina Shukri Cl Emily Monosson RO Lorin Neenan ll Angela McCormick RB Mary MgGrath LO Holly Howard LL SR Penfield, N.Y. SR Schenectady, N.Y. SO Newton, Ma. SR Schenectady, N.Y. -FR Scotia, N.Y. F R Dorchester, Ma. SO Hart. , Conn. Record 6-1-1 Union 4, Middlebury 2 Union 3,,Rochester 0 ' Union 5, Wells o Union 1, Hamilton 0 Union 2, Siena 1 · Union 0, Smith 0 Oneonta 2, Union 0 Union 4, Sage 1 PARTY WITH CHET ARTHUR .AND DELTA CHI - On FRI., OCT. 17 after THE HENRY PAUL BAND CONCERT-THE BUD WILL BE FLOWlN 1 , and the BAND A PLAYIN'-COME ON UP! . I . 6J At ·This Athlete Debbie: Debbi• part of cessful team. 1 collectec a 4\'1 vic' Monday, strum en the .off Vassaril win. Th• shots on only foru Downe been not season .f< She lead notching far this l has been both on~ consist en .portant k team pr• selves at View] Pr By DO The hE weenMul Holmes g ·the cy professio1 true that a bit ove1 basically factors recent fig unanswer confused, topics an look at h< Joe Lot what Ali l He carrie• person ali standing seemed to for extem especially fans who • Louis's sonality. concerns l Bare. The for 8:00 at Louis wa: married : evening. I events am better pun night. He l could hav1 that night tried tom< his title in 1 Schmellin~ title again Rocky Ma1 Youth agai destroyed 1 did he? N ciano lived F

OONCORDI1!1N81S, October 16, 1980 Page, 15 eport Athlete of the Week ·This week's selection as Athlete ·of the week is senior Debbie Downey. of a New York State Tour- nament bid. trying to figure out why she was chosen she finally found the words to say \it has just been a great contribution by the whole team al:l season long and I just hope we can produce the same type of performance throughout the state tournament''. We certainly wish Debbie and the rest of the field hockey team the best of luck in the upcoming tournament. SPORTS HA\PPENlNGS Oct. 16 to Oct. 23 Varsity Football Varsity Soccer JV Soccer Cross Country Oct. 18 vs. Trinity 1:30 Oct. 18 vs. Trinity 11:30 Oct. 22 at Colgate 3:00 Oct. 18 vs. Trinity 11: 30 Oct. 22 at Hartwick 3:00 Oct. 18 vs. R P I 2: 00 Debbie has been an integral part of this year's highly suc· cessful wamen's field hockey team. On Saturday \Deb\ collected 2 goals to aid Union in a 4,.1 victory over Russell Sage. Monday, Deb was very in· strumental in helping to keep the offensiv.e pressure on Vassar in Union's important HI win. The Dutchwomen had 20 shots on net whi~ Vassar had only four. Downey's contribution has been nothing but consistent all season for the women stiekers. She leads the team in scoring,' notching 8 goals and 2 assists so far this fall. As cQ-captain she has been an inspirational leader both on and off the field. Deb's consistency has been an im- portant key to the field hockey team presently finding them- selvesat7-H and being assured Debbie has performed the strenuous feat · of playing 3 sports a year for the past 3 years and pl~ns to play 3 again this year. Besides .field hockey she participates in. basketball and softball. Coach .Marty Morrison and Coach Lynn Barta, both suggested the same general conclusion, that no matter what sport,, Deb is someone who is always there, someone you can really depend on. · When informed that she had won the award Debbie was quite shocked. For so long;'- in all sports she had been a very dependable player but never had received much recognition. But now, being the leading scorer, people are not only recognizing her present talents but her contributions over the past three years. As Debbie was Pro Roundball Round-Up View From the Stands: Pro Boxing By RICH BlEGEN Atlanta: Hubie's boys are ready for another stretch run to the NBA Finals. None of them have all•world talent, but_ no team has ever enjoyed making a trip to the Omni. One of the main reasons is Dan Round- field, the best power forward in division. George McGinness ... enough said. Detroit: The Pistons have the makings of a contender, but they're a few years away. Bob McAdoo may be ready to play defense this year, and offense is second nature. Greg Keiser and Terry Tyler ate a fine young pair of forwards and will be together for a long time. But the Guards are obscene. John Long and who? Next,year ... Maybe. Midwest Division world's best backup center who plays 35 minutes! The back- court hinges on the hinges of James Silas' knees. George Gervin should average 35 points and 35 shots a game. Marc Olberding and whoever (probably John Shumate) give the Spurs the worlds slowest cornermen. By DOUG SILVERSTEIN The heavyweight bout bet- ween Muhammad Ali and Larry Holmes gave clear indication of -,.. the league last year. He is well supported with John Drew at the forward spot, and at center with Tree Rollins and Steve Hawes. The guards are solid as long as Eddie Johnson keeps his mind on basketball. But the Hawks are short· in back-up forwards, and unless Tom portrayed that night. He always suffered from one thing, the claim that he beat an old man .. McMillen's knee is 100 percent, the Hawks may take an early Kansas City: This division has something in common with the American (baseball) League East. In both divisions, one team will qualify for the playoffs (end of comparison). The Kings are the same guard oriented team, (Leon Douglas and J. C. Meriwether count as subtraction by addition). Sam Lacey and point guard Phil Ford pass, everyone shoots, no one rebounds, and the Kings\ get shown to the exits. Second round. Denver: Starting power forward Kim Hughes and his 35 percent free throws could draw early circus fans, and his backup Glen Gondrezick·makes him look good. Anyone over 6'6\ is welcome to try out. Dan Issei is an offensive dynamo, and the rest of the- squad is offensive too. David Thompson will play 30 games again, picking his spots! Rookie James Ray, No.5 in the overall draft, didn't play in the exhibition season. - the cyclical nature of professional boxing. It may be true that the sport has changed a bit over the years, but it has basically been unscathed by all factors except money. The recent fight left many questions unanswered and many fans confused, but let's avoid those topics and take a comparable look at boxing's legends. Joe Louis was ln his time what Ali has been in our time. He carried with him a unique personality along with out- standing skills. He never seemed to bring it all together for extended periods of time, especially in the eyes of boxing fans who could not understand Louis's idiosyncrqtic per- sonality. One story I recall concerns his victory over Max Bare. The fight was scheduled for 8:00 at Yankee Stadium and Louis was scheduled to get married at 7:45 that same evening. He made it to both events and probably threw no better punches than he did that night. He later claimed that he could have fought forever on that night, a st~tement Louis tried to make a. reality. He lost his title in twelve rounds to Max Schmelling, only to regain the title again in 1941. Along came Rocky Marciano who pitted his Youth against Louis's age and destroyed the Louis legend. Or did he? Needles to say, Mar- ciano lived up to the potential he If this saga sounds all too familiar than you're on the ball. Replace the name of Louis with Ali and that of Marciano with Holmes and one can tell the story over again. Both Louis and Ali rose in a time of worldwide . turmoil, Louis during WWII and Ali during Vietnam. Both gained and lost their titles in dramatic and surprising manners. And lastly, both had the personalities that neither Marciano or Holmes compare to. Just as Louis and Marciano contrasted enor- mously, so do Ali and Holmes. Unfortunately for Marciano and Holmes, the cycle repeats itself and finds both of· those men supporting only modest legenqs. People attract to sports personalities not only because of ability, but mainly due to charisma, charm,. eloquence, and visibility. Marciano and Holmes will never reach the level of recognition that Louis or Ali have because people simply don't see them. It is as if Marciano and Holmes represent an ant waving a flag in front of an elephant, trying to be noticed. The fan is represented by the elephant, too big to notice. I'm not condeming the ad- miration that fans have for Louis and Ali. What I am saying is that it is time for us to put the skills of boxers in proper per· spective. The fight of a boxer's . career should be inside the ring, not outside. Sports Photographers Needed Call Tom Conway at .~382-9029 ~spring vacation. If it's healed though, the sky's the limit. Chicago: After 9 Pro seasons, Artis Gilmore finally has a team to support him. Dave Greenwood and Larry Kenon should make the corners tough and Ronnie Lester should compliment Reggie Theus beautifully. Watch out for Sam Worthen, a quality Rookie bail handler. Cleveland: Mike Mitchell is a superscorer, Randy Smith' is one of the swiftest guards of all- time, but the two of them are not enough to take the Cavs to the playoffs. Roger Phegley makes the guards respectable. Bill Robinzine should help at forward. Cleveland doesn't have a Center. The years highlight in Cleveland will be the all-star game. Indiana: a'he pacers will not be contenders in this shabby Houston: The Moses Malone show! See Moses. See Moses' team. See Moses' team shoot. (Pass off the glass.) See Moses catch the ball. Dunk Moses dunk, etc. Besides Malone, the only thing exciting this team has to offer is 5 '9\ Calvin Murphu, and 6'0\ Allan Leavell, trying to guard 6'8\ Magic Johnson and 6'6\ Mic)lael Cooper, when the Lakers come to town. San Antonio: George John· son, late ·of the Nets, is the Utah: Even · the cocaine is bad .. Rookie superstud Darryl Griffith will shine, but John Duren may be even better. The forwards, Adrian Dantle:r and James Hardy are matadors. Dantley is a superscorer though, and could team up with Griffith to win games. The Jazz don't have a center. Dallas: They have the best ninth man in the league. Actually, they have the 11 best ninth men in the league. The individualplayers are not worth running through (unless your on a fastbreak). To make matters worse, their No. 1 draft pick, Kiki Runaweghe, has enrolled at UCLA for another. You gotta feel for him though, he turned down a Rhodes scholarship. Without Kiki, the marvericks don't have a head case. In this league that should guarantee them last place. NEXT WEEK, THE WEST. BLOCK-U . MEETING THURSDAY, OCT. 16th 7:00 P.M. Block U Room in Alu_mni Gym

> .a 0 0 .c 11.. Page 16 OONOORDIEN8l8, O~~~ber 16, 1980 6port ·' RPI Upsets Gridders By ED LYNCH In retrospect, the players felt that they were mentally prepared for RPI. As the Dutch- men charged into Alexander Field Saturday afternoon, one could sense that they were somewhat determined :to win. However, it wa.s even more apparent that RPI had come to play. This psychological edge SJi>eHed the :diffe~ence as the Engineers took the meeting between the two· clubs; 14-13. Dana Johnston looked very good throughout the contest, hitting 15•24 for 167 yards. Billy Huttner picked up and fresh- man fuHback Art Anderson seems to be a hard-nosed ball carrier. However, in the trenches, where games are won and lost, the Dutchmen did not fare as Well. The offensive line did not execute the way .that they will have to if Union :is to be successful. The defensive front fotmd themselves out of position and disoriented a number of times. The defense as a unit, although much improved from years past, was again hurt by the big play. .The scoring opened in the first quarter when R?I's Alex Both- well blew arowui left end for a 34yardscamper, The point was good and .RPI was leading 7 ~­ The Dutchmen got on the board in the second quarter when JohnstDn called to his left man hit senior end ~enry Wright who had curled into the middle. Wright broke out of a pack of defenders and raced towards the goal post finishing off a 37 yard touchdown,passplay. Scott JohnstDn added the extra point. RPI broke out of the 7-7 deadlock early in the fourth quarter, as the Engineers drove BO yards in 17 plays.' The big play was the incomplete pass from Gary LaDuca to Mike Cory, Sophomore quarterback, George Oberstadt was called for pass interference, setting up - the Engineers on the Union 11. LaDuca then flipped to Both- well, who carried to the one for a third and inches situation. Finally Joe Johnson drove in for the score. RPI' s Tim Hoyt was wide on the extra point, but Union was off sides. On his second chance, Hoyt boomed it through. With 7 :43 .remaining, Johnstonand the Garnet offense took over and marched 66 yards in 11 plays. Billy Huttner did the brunt of the pall carrying; picking up 24 yards on four attempts. The big play came when Johnston found freslunen tight ead Marc Marro for a first and goal at the two. Huttner then took it up the middle and was thrown back by a corps of Engineers. On the next play, he Capital District Tourney Runne.rs Finish 3rd The Union cross-country team finished third in the Capital District Championships held Saturday in Central Park. Siena College easily won the team championship with 26 points, while Albany State edged Union for second by a score of 62 to 63. RPI was fourth with 84 points. Top finisher for the Dutchmen was Adam· hicht, who placed third in 32:01 for the 10,000 meter course. Ed Amheitrer, despite being bothered by a cramp, finished 9tn in 32:42, with Jack Connor and Denny Contois 16th and 17th with times of33:27 and 33:32, respectively. Rounding out the team scoring were John Casale, 26th; Dave Dellehunt, 31st; Duncan MacKeinzie, 36th; Joe Londa 37th; and Paul Palaszewski, 39th. 55 runners competed. Despite the one point lose to · Albany, coach Ted Bick felt the outlook for the remainder of the year was bright. Bick pointed out that the first four runners from Union averaged under 5:25 a mile and that four Union runners had beaten RPI's second finisher. Bick also noted that John Wiznewski, a member of last year's varsity, would be competing for the first time this year this week. Union competed against the Middlebury Panthers yesterday and hosts RPI in the season's most important meet this Saturday at eleven. Team member Denny Contois echoed the team's sentiments this week, saying; \After Satur- day's football game, I can't wait to get ahold of those guys from RPI.\ ~van Krinick passes ball up field. burst off right tackle behind the blocks ·of Symington and Dana and in for- the score. Coach Wirth again f()und himself faced with the decision of whether to go for the tie or the wtn. Wirth tends to .find these kind of decisions rather easy. He had brought his team to win this ballgame. Johnston rolled out to his rfght, facked as if to run and looked for Marro in the corner of the end zone. Unable to find. the freshman tight end, Johnston put his head down and drove toward the end zone. There he was met by three RP ~ defenders and slammed down short of the goal line. Union immediately recovered ari on-side kick, as Scott Johnston fell on the loose ball at the Union 45 yard line. On third and six, Huttner took a swing pass from Johnston and brought '- it down to the RPI 46 for a fourth ~ '- and one. Huttner again labored j for the Dutchmen and picked up the first down at the 44 with 3:09 ~ remaining. > ~ <J) > ..a o A~0,\;[!i'i;~1.ifA,£;~\i. ...... 0 .. .s::' n. '' On first and 10 with 1 :56 left, Johnston on a play action pass hit Wright on a down and .out putting the Dutchmen on the RPI 23. Johnston carried around right end to the 19 and quickly called time out. The following play crushed the Dutchmen's hopes of a last- minute victory. Johnston rolled to his right as he does on most roll out passes, and quickly stopped, set up and fired to Marro, who was breaking for the end zone. Wright open again Unfortunately, Johnston did not .See RPI's Dan Dtu1bar, who stepped in front of Marro and made the interception. Later, many questioned the call of a pass play. With second down . and five to go and more than a minute to play, the team could have stayed on the grolUld and moved closer, eventually at- tempting a field goal. However, RPI was expecting the run. The play was there, but Dunbar just recovered very well and made a super defensive play. - It is somewhat un- derstandable that Union wouldn't be sky-high for RPI. Shutout RPI After traveling to Colby in Maine and winning a big game, coming back to face RPI, which Union has dominated in the __past, was a natural let down. Although the players may have felt as though they were ready, down deep they probably weren't.. As· a result, the Engineers took the Dutchmen's Shoes back to Troy. Next week Trinity will invade Alexander Field. After travelling from Hartford, they will be determined to return home with a victory. If the Dutchmen come to play, it will be a super game. If they aren't ready, they will find themselves being pushed up and down the field on the 'YaY to their third loss of the season. HOMECOMING PREVIEW: For the first time since 1942, when the two teams played to a 19-19 tie, Union football will host Trinity College for the Homecoming showdown. Trinity will come to Union sporting a 3-1 reco1.1d. The elub's only loss was at the hands of the Colby Mules, who were shat out by the DutchmeiJ two weeks ago, 6-0. The Ttinity attack is led by quarterback Pete Martin, who has completed 41 of 88 passes for four touchdowns and 644 yards so far this year. rrinity, s offense gets additional punch from tailback Bill Holden, who has tallied 374 yards on 88 carries. Defensively, Trinity boasts linebacker Bill Schafler, who has 45 tackles to- date and was named ECAC player of the week after the Trinity-Tufts contest. , , In the eleven times Unioa has played Trinity, the Dutclunen have won five, lost foll).' and played to a tie twice. Soccer Rebounds ' The Union Soccer Team is not only back on the track of playing good soccer, but they are back on the train of winning as well. This past weeksaw the Dutchmen return to the calibre of play which brought them ·~1ree consecutive early season wins. On Wednesday, the highly ranked Danes of Albany State invaded Garis field and despite being_ outplayed, outhustied, and outshot {24-8), were able to pull out a 4-2 victory. Capitalizing on occassional lapses by the Dutchmen defense, the Albany sharp- shooters were able to score on .four of the eight shots they were able to get off. Union peppered the Albany goal throUghout the game but goalie Alberto Giordano turned most of them away. Bernie Zeifang, however, was able to bounce a shot off of a Albany defender and passed the sprawled Giordano. In the second half, Tim Agar drilled a shot just inside the near post and into the back of the nets, bringing Union within one goal 3-2, of Albany with thirty minutes still left. in the game. For the next twenty minutes Union struggled to get a tying tally. Hans Bukow' s head shot missed by inches. Brian Shea broke past the Albany defense and in a heaS. on collision with goalie Giordano, just missed powering the baH into the goal. Union, however, was not able to score a tying goal and Albany added a fourth scoce late in the game, nailing the lid shut on Union's chances. Union had played a good game despite coming up on the short end of the score. On Saturday the Dutchmen ended their 3 game losing streak with a convincing 4-0 . thrashing of the Engineers of R.P.I. Andy Dreher initiated the onslaught, taking a chip pass from Mike Canning and drilling it past the R.P .I. goalie. Canning gave the Dutchmen their second goal with a head shot off of a beautiful cross from Mike Lewis. Joining the SC()ring bandwagon were I>ave Sheridan and Evan Krinick, both scoring off of assists from Dreher. Union continu-ed its assault on the RPI goal and only some sharp goaltending saved RPI from further em- barrassment. Chris MoFl'ow, a freshman forward trying for his first goal, hit 3 beautiful shots which just missed.. Peter Cholakis, John Krum, Ben Levitan and Frank Skorina turned away any RPI scoring opportunities, giving goalie George Romas an easy sh:ut out. Soccer action continues this week with the Dutchmen traveling to Kings Point on Wednesday to play the mer- chant marines. On Homecoming Saturday, Union plays host to Trinity College at 11:00 on Garis Field. ' - 'I am ne~ cer loa Oc1 fine \F~ nev J. l aid T Op1 iilCl yea oq yea legi yea 'c · or f! wor she The foUI N edu ticii prGf less wag this takE be 1 The sidE: plan wag M stud the Bo, A On Mee weel ofth Old I Th pans open mair equa of t estin pect• Chri: Th heca prog cess Stud' ex:pa a ceo: cess

II October 23, 1980 Volume 110, Number 6 • Anderson Stresses Issues .... (I) .s:::. C() <i. \'0 .... ·tO .s:::. . ~ a::: >- .c 0 .... 0 .s:::. ll. ,,_.., ·. 1/. . . l. .-:<.· f .. .;· ~.,-.:':tt···\: :' ,.,,..~, \\f,'i:\ ,, ' '1 ·Union Financial Aid Director Robert J. Mass1a discusses financial aid changes that have already or are scheduledto take effect soon Aid Revamped ByGALEVANORE The · higher education amendments of 1980 will wit- ness several changes con- cerning student grants and loans. Congress, at the end of October, reauthorized federal financial aid for now until 1985. \For the most part, this is good news for students,.\ said Robert J. Massa, dir,ector of financial aid here. Tbe Basic Education Opportunity. Grant {BEOG) will increase <~ver the next five years from a present maximum of $1,800 per year to $2,600 per year in 1985. In addition, legislation eliminates· the four- year maximum eligibility. \If a student ha~ to stay five · or six years for undergraduate work,\ explained Massa, \he or she can get the money needed.\ There was formerly a limit of four years unless approved. New regulations require educational institutions par- ticipating in college work-study prsgrams to pay students not less than federal minimum wage. ''We do not know when this particular regulation will take effect. It is likely it won't be until July 1,\ said Massa. The College is currently con- sidering various alternative plans for payment of student wages, including work-study. Major changes were made in student loan programs. \With the smaller of the two programs-the National Direct Student Loan (NDSL)--the Federal government gives the College the money and we, in turn,. lend it to students,\ ex- plained Massa. Major changes within the program are an in- terest rate increase from three to four percent after graduation and a grace period reduced from nine to six months. This is in effect for the first time for borrowers after this Oct. 1; it does not effect students here now who already borrowed through the program. More than 1,200 students here have the second major loan, the Guaranteed Student_ Loan 1 (GSL). \The major change of interest for our students is that the GSL undergraduate maximum has increased from $7,500 to $12,500,\ said Massa. The annual maximum is still $2,500, which is unchanged. - \This means that senoirs who borrowed $2,500 a year for three years and thought they exhausted their maximum can now reapply after Jan. 1 for another $2,500 to help fund their senior year,\ said Massa. \This will be extremely good news for <i. . people who borrowed money \E and thought they couldn't ~ borrow more.\ . ii Changes were also made for students independent of their .Ei parents. A student independent .E . of his or her parents, beginning _g Jan. 1, may borr<;~w up to $3,000 a.. By JIM DAVIS Criticizing the two major presidential ·candidates for failing to address major issues, independent candidate John Anderson, in a Schenectady speech Monday night, reaf- firmed his support for the SALT II treaty and his opposition to development of the MX missile. ''On the issue of war, there has been a quicksand of fears . regarding man's feelings,\ Anderson said at Linton High School. ''But I don't think that Carter and Reagan, by ap- pealing to these fears, are going to find how to secure peace.\ The candidate noted President Carter's «total flip- flop on SALT II,\ adding that Carter \has decided to inake the election a referendum. on SALT II.\ ''An arms J.imitation C~greementy not a reward for good conduct,.'' he observed. \It is something that will serve both the Soviet Union's and the United States' goud. Arms control is too important a matter to bargain with.\ Anderson also stated his opposition to development of the mobile MX missile, supported by Carter and Reagan. Its production, Anderson said, would ' cost more tfian $100 million and bring. en- vironmental damage to the area where it is deployed, in the southwestern U.S. In supporting the MX's fur- ther developme·nt, Anderson said that Carter and Reagan · \seem to harbor the '·fatal issusion that nuclear wars can be limited and perhaps even won.\ The independent candidate also criticized President Carter for making a \political foot- ball\ of the debates scheduled for presidential candidates, by refusing to appear with him. ''Instead of providing an op- portunity for a frank discussion of the issues, they, too, have been manipulated by the president to his own ad- vantag~.!' To encourage future presidential candidates to concentrate on issues rather than personalities, Anderson proposed that each state distribute to voters a pamphlet outlining candidates' positions at least a week prior to election day. Likening himself to a rower trying to paddle against the current, Anderson noted that he has tried to introduce issues and \tell people the sometimes hard and unpalatable truths, not simply those things that are soothing and appealing.\ As examples of such proposals, the candidate cited his refusal to propose an election year tax cut and his support of gun control laws. On the issue· of the U.S.'s dependence on foreign oil, Anderson noted that Reagan believes domestic producers can be induced to produce more and that President Cartel' has tried to limit domestic con- swnption by encouraging a recession. Neither alternative is satisfactory, in Anderson's opinion. Instead, he restated his proposal for a 50-cent-a-gallon increase in federal taxes on gasoline, coupled with a corresponding reduction in Social Security tax rates. \Some people are saying that I ought to get out of the race because th~y say I can't win,\ Anderson said. Despite national polls that show his level of support dropping to about 10 percent, however, the in- dependent said that he is still confident of victory. \Many voters are not satisfied with the choice provided by the two major parties. On election day, they will break their party ties and vote for me.\ During his remarks, Anderson noted the presence of Union students in the near- capacity crowd of about 2,000. This acknowledgement was greeted by applause, one of a half-dozen times the speech was so interrupted. \I shall always carry a special affection for that very distinguished academic in- stitution,\ Anderson said, recognizing the contribution made by Union political science professor Clifford W. Brown, Jr., who has been a key Anderson campaign adviser. This comment was also met by applause. Board of Trustees Meet: Continued on page 9 Independent PresidenHal candidate John B. Anderson. speaks in Schenectady Monday evening Af)prove Old Chapel Dining By SCOTT ADAMS One result of the Trustees' Meetings held this past weekend will be the expansion of the Hale dining facilities into Old Chapel. The plan calls for the ex- pansion of the servicing area, opening into Old Chapel, and maintaining two separate (but equal) dining areas. Completion of the basic modifications, estimated at $22,000, are ex- pected to be completed over Christmas vacation. ·These changes are needed, because ''the food service program has . been too . suc- cessful,\ 1said Will Lloyd, Student Trustee. He adds, \This expansion will allow ~or the accommodation of this suc- cess.'' S.~nior Trustee Ed- Lonergan added: \This is only intended to be a temporary solution to the overcrowding problem.\ While this expansion will allow Hale House lower lounge to revert to its previous function of group meetings and the-like, it will also force the Glee Club out of Old Chapel into Memorial Chapel, and cause the relocation of some classes presently Using Old Chapel. The completion of the con- struction being done on Old Gym Hall, soon to be known as Stanley Becker Hall, is ex- pectedby Dec. 1. This will allow the Office of Financial-Aid and the Admissions Office to move into the building over Christmas break. The Trustees approved funding fQr a six-lane track that . will go around the already approved all-weather field, to be located at Daley Field. New lights were also approved for the field, though no action was taken on the proposed 3,000-seat staditUn. There will be a tem- porary, at least, relocation of the bleachers from Alexander Field to the soon to be (Sep· tember 1981) field at Daley. Thomas D'Andrea, the new Vice President for Academic Affairs, in his first meeting with the Board of . Trustees, ex- . pressed his personal goals. One of these goals is to make faculty salaries more competitive with schools of Union's caliber. \Though his goals for Union's academic future may be dif- ficult to: achiever, he appears confident,\ said Llo;vd. For Presidential Election: .... Poll. Set, Concordiensis is conducting a Presidential Preference Poll of the student body here today and Friday. Students can vote at a polling booth on the ground floor of Carnegie Hall, inside the side entrance, on the way to the Pub. The booth will be open today from 1 to 3 :30 p.m. and Friday froin 9 a.m. to 3:30p.m. To vote, students must present their ID's. Participants in the Poll will be asked to make two choices. First, they will have a chance to indicate their preference for either Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan or John Anderson. On the second line of the Poll ballot, .. they will be asked to select between only Carter and Reagan. \We're taking two different readings to see how much support Anderson has here, •· explained Concordiensis Co- Editor Jim Davis. \By limiting the choice to Reagan or Carter on the second line, We'll be able to find out who Anderson sup- porters' second choice is.\ Result:; of this week's Poll will appear in next Thursday's edition of Concordiensis, along with several other articles about the Nov. 4 general election.

'·, .. '\ - Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, October 23, 1980 --Editorial-- Carnegie Comforts Have you noticed that a large mole seems to have moved in right in front of the library? You can't possiW.y have missed the moat around Carnegie. As you walk around campus, it is hard not to notice the many renovations aml improvements being made right now. Everywhere you turn ther.e is something new going on. A few things you may have missed are the recently completed changes within Carnegie it- self. Lorraine Marra, Director of Student Activities, seemed notably excited and justifiably proud when she asked us if we would be interested in doing an article on the completed work this week. (See article, page 8.) Work, which has bee~JJ;,going on since early summer; is now complete. It started out as a simple idea, but has ended with some pleasing results. The improvements start on the second floor of Carnegie and work their way up to the top. strauss Lounge (across from Mrs. Marra's office) is now open continually as a meeting and relaxing area. It is designed to be a place to come and study or just to relax and chat. Less noticeable are the changes in Conference Room A on the third floor. This has always been a place to meet for clubs and activities. Now it has been remodeled by a set of new furniture. · Finally, fourth floor Carnegie has been completely redone. This place may seem to be in the far reaches of the campus, but actually it too houses a variety of clubs and activities--Ooncordiensis being one of them. This floor has undergone drastic changes since last spring. Its former wasteland appearance has been removed by the addition of a wall-to-wall carpet and a new coat of paint, along with a new conference room complete with interior windows, new furniture and curtains. It seems that simple idea has had quite a lot to say for itself. So the next time you think our resident mole is after you, run over to Carnegie for comfort. .. Subscribe to CONCORDIENSIS Parents, Alumni, Friends $10 Yearly Clip the coupon below and return to Concoriensis, Box 2517/ Union College, Schenectady/ NY 12308 r--------------------1 I Name I I I I I I Street I I I I I 1 a~ I I I I I I State. Zip · I L---~----------------~ Editors-in-Chief Jim Davis, Julie Isgro News Editor Gale Vanore Features Editors Jlld:iChervenak, FredFen~~er Arts Editors Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Photo Editor Richard A. Sher Sports Editors Bill Curtin, Rich Hope Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowicz Sports Phto Editor Steve Leiner Layout Editor Rachel I. Mandel Business Manager Lawrence C. Leavitt Advertising Manager Jeff Scardino Subscriptions Editor Ellen Burger Calendar Editor Maria Manfredonia Staff Claire Burchill, Charis Richards Photo Staff Kent Avery, Michael J;. Elkins, Charis Richards CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States . . CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. . ' · Hqm\e.cot;ttihg 'Ttn:~nt<s·\ ' .. - S] B The Me me annu; frater Sigm• HomE The durin Presi< Cou:m Klock preser John : The traditi preser Union troph~ Stever killed Railro Phi Si! longer died v. at Uni The fratert them Frater three intrarr Li B Itwa as Cir1 Hike fc Hospit; Sunda) women Union: walked route, Rosa AvenUE Road, returni The 1 througl wa~ tc Arthti· provid develo educati numbeJ Afflicti ages, among I ,

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, October B3, 1980 --Editorial-- Carnegie Comforts Have you noticed that a large mole seems to have moved in right in front of the library? You can't possilll.y have missed the moat around Carnegie. As you walk around campus, it is hard not to notice the many renovations and improvements belng made right now. Everywhere you turn there is something new going on. A few things you may have missed are the recently completed changes within Carnegie it- self. Lorraine Marra, Director of Student Activities, seemed notably excited and justifiably proud when she asked us if we would be interested in doing an article on the completed work this week. (See article, page 8.) Work, which has bee~ going on since early summer, is now complete. It started out as a simple idea, but has ended with some p~easing results. The improvements start on the second floor of Carnegie and work their way up to the top. Strauss Lounge (across from Mrs. Marra's office) is now open conti.nually as a meeting and relaxing area. It is designed to be a place to come and study or just to relax and chat. Less noticeable are the changes in Conference Room A on the third floor. This has always been a place to meet for clubs and activities. Now it has been remodeled by a set of new furniture. Finally, fourth floor Carnegie has been completely redone. This place may seem to be in the far reaches of the campus, but actually it too houses a variety of clubs and activities--Ooncordiensis being one of them. This floor has undergone drastic changes since last spring. Its former wasteland appearance has been removed by the addition of a wall-to-wall carpet and a new coat of paint, along with a new conference room complete with interior windows, new furniture and curtains. It seems that simple idea has had quite a lot to say for itself. So the next time you think our resident mole is after you, run over to Carnegie for comfort. ·· Subscribe to CONCORDIENSIS Parents, Alumni, Friends $10 Yearly Clip the coupon below and return to Concoriensis, Box 2517, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308 r---~--------------~-~ ~ Name~-------------------------- 1 ~ Street--------------- 1 I City _____________ _ I I State Zip------ L--------------~---~-~ ....... coa.,. • .. concoroienuas Editors-in-Chief Jim Davis, Julie Isgro NewsEditor GaleVanore Features Editors Jud.iChervenak, Fred Fen,tier Arts Editors Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Photo Editor Richard A. Sher Sports Editors Bill Curtin, Rich Hope Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowicz Sports Phto Editor Steve Lemer Layout Editor Racheli. Mandel Business Manager Lawrence C. Leavitt Advertising Manager Jeff Scardino Subscriptions Editor Ellen Burger Calendar Editor Maria Manfredonia Staff Claire Burchill, Charis Richards Photo Staff Kent A very, Michael J .. Elkins, Charis Richards CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. . ' Letters 'Homecoming Thanks ·To the Editors: Cindy Battiste '78 Homecoming Chairmen Karen Wytrwal Harry De '47 · rris Bob, ~$9 -,. N:atb;~ ~1lllfjney '7~ · · PamViglie1Ino '82 Landress~-37(}~6'627; Tammbaurn-37(),.6499. Rich- Sincerely Catherine A. Johnson Chairperson Committee on Committees 'they would discover that everything is not contaminated. In addition, if a greater number of individuals stopped buying food that contained artificial additives~ companies might think twice \'before putting saccharine in their drinks. Sherry Laitman Jfo the Editors: Frankel on i . I i j l i 1 l I l ' i i 1 - S: I Th1 Mem annu frate1 Sigrn Hom' Tbe durir Presi Court Klocl prese John The tradit prese Union troph; Steve1 killec Railn PhiSi longe1 died v at Un The frater them Frate three intran Lj I It w< as Cir Hike f, Hospit Sunda: wome1 Union walkec route, Rosa Avenu Road, return The throug was tl Arthri provic develc educat numbe Afflicti ages, among

OONOORDIENSIS. October B3) 1980 Page 3 Sigma Chi Wins Brown Cup By SUE BLOOMBERG The Steven P. Brown Memorial Cup Tr(lphy·, awarded annually to an outstanding fraternity, was presented to Sigma Chi at Saturday's Homecoming football gam·e. The winner was announced during half-time by the President of the Interfraternity Council (IF C), Tony Klockenbrink, and was presented by Union President JohnS. Morris.~ communities activities, each weighed evenly. Each fraternity is given a ranking from one to 16 for all three categories. The recipient of the award is the fraternity with the lowest number of points. Tau first in scholarship, Sigma Chi first in intramurals, and Phi Sigma Kappa first in activities. Sigma Chi was the overall leader, only one point ahead ef Phi Gamma Delta (Fiji) was followed by Phi Sigma Kappa, Delta Phi, ZBT and Phi Delta Theta. Any fraternity which receives the cup for three years is able to retire the cup. This has been accomplished by Sigma Chi four years ago and Fiji this past year. Congratulations, Sigma Chi! Old alue Gate honors fraternities founded at Union, the \Motliler of Fraternities.\ The award, which has been a tradition for over. 25 years, is presen~d in rnemotiam to a Union College student. The trophy is awarded in honor of Steven P. Brown, who was killed on the Long Island Railroad. Brown, a member of Phi Sigma Delta, a fraternity no longer in existence at Union, died when he was a sophomore at Union in 1950. The category of scholarship is determined by house cum- mtdative average, intramurals by win-loss ·record in in- tramural competition, and activities by on-campus ac ... tiviti~s . a~ . charity orgamzat10ns m which each brother is involved. These calculations were handled by a committe~ composed. of four IFC members; Tony Klockenbr.ink, Seth Men- delowitz, Church Dexter and SAC- Studying Areas The Brown Cup is given to the fraternity which accomplishes the most in the previous year. Fraternities are judged under three categories, Scholarship, intramurals, and campus and ·Kevin Farley. The colllihittee was able to determine the results for scholarship and intramurals with -he•p from the registrar's office and intramural office. Points for activities were calculated by the coillrhittee, with help from the' individual fraternities. The results placed Zeta Beta The Students Mfairs Council in its Monday meeting discussed the possihility of allocating new study areas for students. Overcrowded dor- mitories a'nd the nightly dosipg ~ of the Humanities and Social Sciences B uildi.ngs prevent students from seeking added study space. Like Bike/Hike Vern Wetmore, secretary of the council, explained that when security opened the buildings for students to study in, students often left the windows and doors open, causing the pipes to freeze during the win· ter. In addition, when students occupy the rooms to study, there is a tendency for students to put up a sign outside the door and use the room solely for themselves, thus preventing others from en- tering. By JOANN~ WHITE It was a beautiful autumn day as Circle K launched its Bike- Hike for Arthritis at Sunnyview Hospital on Rosa Road on last Sunday, Oct. 19. Forty men and women of all ages, mostly Union students, either biked or walked the scenic tern mile route, which proceeded along Rosa Road to Providence A venue, River ,Road, Rosendale Road, and Eastern Parkway, returning via Wendall Avenue. The purpose of the hike, held throughout New York State, was to 'raise . money for the Arthritis Foundation, which provides for research, development, and public education about the nation's number one crippling disease. Afflicting men and women of all ages, arthritis is prevalent among 20 to 45-year-olds, and strikes more women than men. Patticipimts in Bike-Hike raise money for the Foundation by . obtaining sponsors, who pay a set amount of money per mile travelled. Bike-Hike, which required an average of an hour for hikers, and three hours for hikers, proved to be an enjoyable, rewarding experience for all. Events such as this one testify to the success of Circle K as a \total organization,\ Its leaders said, which combines a. great time with meaningful service to the community. . All bike-hikers are reminded to return pledges early. In addition to a trip to Disneyland for the highest pledge, a ten- speed bike, windbreakers and T shirts, another ten speed bike will be awarded for; the earliest return. \A possible solution,\ suggested Wetmore, \is to allow a certain group of students to be responsible for monitoring the building bet- ween 8 and 12 p.m. They can then return the key to security. This could be done on a grant and aid basis.\ Other suggestions included the opening of labs and quiet hours in the dormitories. Another issue covered was the policy of transporting students in case of an accident. Cliff Wood, director of security, submitted a list of policies in Dutch Hollow. Pub This Week at the Pub: Friday and Saturday 5:00 - 7:30 p.m. Beef & Brew Seafood, Steaks and Burgers Free Salad Bar, Pitcher of Beer or Carafe of Wine wi.th each meal Tonight: 3 7 oz. Matt's Bottl·es $1.00 Remember: - HAPPY HOUR, Tuesdays 9:30-10:30 Most Drinks 75c ·Draft Beer 2 for 1 Presidential Poll! CONCORDIENSIS wants to know who YOU want in the Oval office for the next 4 Years When: This Thurs., 'Oct. 23 1 :30-3:~0 & Fri., Oct. 24 9:00•3:30 Where: Right outside of The Pub BE THERE! case of an accident. \The question is whether or not security can transport them,\ Wetmore said. A third important issue raised was the want of a health and ·safety committee. \People : are concerned about .asbestos ~nd matters of that nature,'' explamed W_etmore. Students have expressed a need for more such safety programs on campus. In other business, the Finance Committee has announced a new schedule of hours. It will be available: Monday, Wed- nesday, Fridayfrom3:30to 4:30 p.m. Drive Begins Union officially began its 69th Annual Fund drive last Friday, Oct. 17, with a class agents dinner. Annual Fund Chairman Richard W. Angle announced a goal for the 69th rund drive of $1.4 million, with $650,000 of that to be contributed by 7,500 alwnni donors. · At the same time, Angle, who served as chairman of the 68th Annual Fund, told the assem- bled volunteers that a number of new records were set last . year. Total contributions to the 68th Annual Fund drive, which ended June 30, reached $1,319,972, setting a record for the eighth consecutive year. Some 8,975 donors participated, Angle reported. Of the total, $621,417 came from Union alumni, whose , contributions set a record for the tenth consecutive year. For the first time in Annual Fund history, more than 55 percent of Union's alumni participated, Angle said. Records were also established by the Annual Business Campaign, the Parents Fund, and the cor- porate matching program. Volunteers in the 68th cam- paign included 63 head agents and 1,102 associate agents who contacted alumni and friends of Union around the country. About 173 students also par- ticipated last May in a four- night phonathon, raising more than $37,000 in pledges . With about 7,380 alumni participating in this year's campaign, Union remains in the top three percent of similar institutions throughout the country in terms of alumni participation, Angle said. Established in 1912 as the Graduate Fund, Union's Annual Fund is believed to be the oldest uninterrupted program of its kind in the country. 164 Jay St. _ Schenectady, N.Y. Phone 37 4-2803 Gifts Posters Cards Godiva Chocolates ' We will ship your gifts Hours: Mon. thru Sat. 10: 30 to 5 Thurs. nite to 8:30 . TENNIS- RACKETBALL- JOGGING CROSS COUNTRY SKIIS VISIT TRICITY'S ONLY RACKET SHOP We carry all brand name Clothing & Equipment Adidas- Ektelon- Fila- Trak Nike- K Swiss- Prince- Wilson Special NOW . Nlke Waffle II Reg. 33.25 · 26.25 24 HOUR RACKET STRINGING COURTSIDE TENNIS & SKI 1624 Upper Union St. 372-5558 Schenectady ' ~ • ' ~ ~ \\ • \' ._.., 10 _. ot T •- ~- •

I I I l i I i l I I I ' i OONOORDIENSIS. October $3~ 1980 Page 3 Sigma Chi Wins Brown Cup By SUE BLOOMBERG The Steven P. Brown Memorial Cup Trophy·, awarded annually to an outstanding fraternity, was presented to Sigma Chi at Saturday's Homecoming football game. The winner was announced during half-time by the President of the Interfraternity Council (IF C), Tony Klockenbrink, and was presented by Unien President John S. Marris. communities activities, each weighed evenly. Each fraterni,ty is given a ranking from one to 16 for aU three categories. The recipient of the a'-Vard is the fraternity with the lowest number of points. Tau first in scholarship, Sigma Chi first in intramurals, and Phi Sigma Kappa first in activities. Sigma Chi was the overall leader, only ene point ahead of Phi Gamma Delta (Fiji) was followed by Phi Sigma Kappa, Delta Phi, ZBT and Phi Delta Theta. Any fraternity which receives the cup for three years is able to retire the cup. This has been accomplished by Sigma Chi four years ago and Fiji this past year. Congratulations, Sigma Chi! Old Blue Gate honors .fraternit.ies founded at Union, the \Mother of Fraternities.\ The award, which has been a tradition for over 25 years, is preseQt~d in memoriam to a Union College student. The trophy is awarded in honor of Steven P. Brown, who was killed on the Long Island Railroad. Brown, a member of Phi Sigma Delta, a fraternity no longer in existence at Union, died when he was a sophomore at Union in 1950. The category of scholarship is determined by house cum- rnulative average, intramurals by win-loss record in in- tramural competition, and activities by on-campus ae- tivi ties anL-.-- charity organizathms fn which each brother i's .involved. These calculations were handled by a com~nUtee composed of four IFC me~nbers; Tony Klockenbrink, Seth Men- delowitz, Church Dexter and Kevin Farley. SAC Studying Areas The Brown Cup is given to the fraternity which accomplishes the most in the previous year. Fraternities are judged under three categeries, Scholarship, intramurals, and campus and The co:mrnittee was able to determine the results for schotarship and intramurals with help frem the registrar's office· and intramural office. Paints for activities were calculated by the ~ommittee, with help from the individual fraternities. The results placed Zeta Beta The Students Affairs Council in its Monday meeting discussed the possibility of allocating new study areas for students. Overcrowded dor- mitories and the nightly closing· of the Humanities and Social Sciences Buildings prevent students from seeking added study space. Like Bike/Hike Vern Wetmore, secretary of the council, explained that when security opened the buildings for students to study in, students often left the windows and doors open, causing the pipes to freeze during the win- ter. In addition, when students occupy the rooms to study, there is a tendency for students to put up a sign outside tbe door and use the room solely for themselves, thus preventing others from en- tering. By JOANNE WHITE It was a beautiful autumn day as Circle K launched its Bike- Hike for Artbritis at Sunnyview Hospital on Rosa Road on last Sunday, Oct. 19. Forty men and women of all ages, mostly Union students, either biked or walked the scenic tern mile route, which proceeded along Rosa Road to Providence Avenue, River,Road, Rosendale Road, and Eastern Parkway, returning via Wendall Avenue. The purpose of the hike, held throughout New York State, was to raise money for the Arthritis Foundation, which provides for research, development, and public education about the nation's number one crippling disease. Afflicting men and women of all ages, arthritis is prevalent among 20 to 45-year-olds, and strikes more women than men. Participants in Bike-Hike raise money for the Foundation by obtaining sponsors, who pay a set amount of money per mile travelled. Bike-Hike, which required an average of an hour for bikers, and three hours for hikers, proved to be an enjoyable, rewarding experience for all. Events such as this one testify to the success of Circle K as a ''total organization,\ Its leaders said, which combines a great time with meaningful service to the community. All hike-hikers are reminded to return pledges early. In addition to a trip to Disneyland for the highest pledge, a ten- speed bike, windbreakers and T shirts, another ten speed bike will be awarded for the earliest return. \A possible solution,\ suggested Wetmore, \is to allow a certain group of students to be responsible for monitoring the building bet- ween 8 and 12 p.m. They can then return the key to security. This could be done on a grant and aid basis.'' Other suggestions included the opening of labs and quiet hours in the dormitories. Another issue covered was the policy of transporting students in case of an accident. Cliff Wood, director of security, submitted a list of policies in Dutch Hollow. Pub This Week at the Pub: Friday end Saturday 5:00 - 7:30 p.m. Beef & Brew Seafood, Steaks and Burgers Free Sa lad Bar, Pitcher of Beer or Carafe of Wine with each meal Tonight: 3 7 oz. Matt's Bottles $1.00 Remember: HAPPY HOUR, Tuesdays 9:30-10:30 Most Drinks 75c Draft Beer 2 for 1 CONCORDIENSIS ·wants to know who YOU want in the Oval office for the next 4 Years When: This Thurs., Oct. 23 1 :30-3:30 & Fri., Oct. 24 9:00-3:30 Where: Right outside of the Pub BE THERE! ·.' case of an accident. \The question is whether or not security can transport tbem,\ Wetmore said. A third important issue raised was the want of a health and ·safety committee. \People : are concerned about asbestos and matters of that nature,'' explamed W:.etmore. Students have expressed a need for more such safety programs on campus. In other business, the Finance Committee has announced a new schedule of hours. It will be available: Monday, Wed- nesday, Friday from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m. Drive Begins Union officially began its 69th Annual Fund drive last Friday, Oct. 17, with a class agents dinner. Annual Fund Chairman Richard W. Angle announced a goal for the 69th rund drive of $1.4 million, with $650,000 of that to be contributed by 7,500 alumni donors. At the same time, Angle, who served as chairman of the 68th Annual Fund, told the assem- bled volunteers that a number of new records were set last year. Total contributions to the 68th Annual Fund drive, which ended June 30, reached $1,319,972, setting a record for the eighth consecutive year. Some 8,975 donors participated, Angle reported. Of the total, $621,417 came from Union alumni, whose , contributions set a record for the tenth consecutive year. For the first time in Annual Fund history, more than 55 percent of Union's alumni participated, Angle said. Records were also established by the Annual Business Campaign, the Parents Fund, and the cor- porate matching program. Volunteers in the 68th cam- paign included 63 head agents and 1,102 associate agents who contacted alumni and friends of Union around the country. About 173 students also par- ticipated last May in a four- night phonathon, raising more than $37,000 in pledges. With about 7,380 alumni participating in this year's campaign, Union remains in the top three percent of similar institutions throughout the country in terms of alumni participation, Angle said. Established in 1912 as the Graduate Fund, Union's Annual Fund is believed to be the oldest uninterrupted program of its kind in the country. 164Jay St. Schenectady, N.Y. Phone 37 4-2803 Gifts Posters Cards Godiva Chocolates We will ship your gifts Hours: Mon. thru Sat. 10: 30 to 5 Thurs. nite to 8: 30 TENNIS- RACKETBALL- JOGGING CROSS COUNTRY SKIIS VISIT TRICITY'S ONLY RACKET SHOP We carry all brand name Clothing & Equipment Adidas- Ektelon- Fi Ia - Trak Nike- K Swiss- Prince- Wilson Special NOW Nike Waffle II Reg. 33.25 26.25 24 HOUR RACKET STRINGING COURTSIDE TENNIS & SKI 1624 Upper Union St. 372-5558 Schenectady

Page 4 CONOORDIENSIS, October PJ3, 1980 Sister Joyce Counsels Here By JESSICA TRACIDEN This vear marks the third that Sister ·Joyce, of the Newman Campus Ministry, will be spending at Union. Sister Joyce has a two-fold capacity here: as a chaplain to organize and conduct religious services and events, and, as a counselor. H1•cently, she has moved frmn an office in Placement Services to one in first floor Da\·idson. Pleased with the move, she feels that her new office offers more privacy and :tecessibility to students. Her presence on campus and her availability to counsel is a point she stresses. She speaks not · 'nly with Catholic students, but with students of ·all reli~ions. Her experience at Union has been \very positive.\ She has .found students and staff to be warm, welcoming and frtendly. She is impressed with hoe politically informed and highly motivated st'l:ldents are. She does believe, however, that students are placed under too much pressure here. She believes that although the level of academic excel'lence is high, there is not enough time for sfudents to really absorb and reflect upon what they are taught. Sister Joyce is _in the process of organizing several com• mittees and discussicm gnmps for this academic year. One committee will deal with worship and religion. Another one, Group Growth, will discuss personality and growth. The Social Justice CommUte will be involved with current social and political issues such as nuclear power. This committee wHl be conducted on two levels; first, to meet immediate needs with fund raising projects, and,. second, to raise consciousness of studer:~ts in terms of effecting legislation. Also bein~ planned is a Chaplains Aid Program. Students involved with this would take a training session at EIHs Hospital on the art of listening to the ill. She feels this will put students in touch with sickness and death. \It makes students take a look at the importance and fragility of life.\ AMther project in the making is one in which pre-law >- .0 0 - 0 .J:: a.. Sister Joyce thinks het experiences at. Union have been \very posi.ti ve .'' students would work with the· Schenectady County probation office, Sister J oy.ce believes that women should be ordained as ministers. As a nan-ordained minister, there are a fe-w sacraments which she does not have the power to perform. He>wever, she does feel pleaseg by the overall student response. to religious activity on campus. Magazine's sales ~~slug~ish\ here: 'College Papers': Flunking Out? By HELEN CORDES College Press Service NEW YORK, NY -It was a magazine cover tailored exquisitely for college students: First there was the im- perative element of selling copies on a newsstand: the celebrity. This Ume it's Chevy Chase. Nestled about Chase, in a· none-too-subtle fashion, were the stock efferings to the 18-to- 35- year-old crowd: sex, drugs, and rock 'n' rolL A joint punc- tuated Chase's smirk, and a lacy-brassiere-dad breast was pressed against Chase's head, which in turn was wreathed in stereo headphones. Everything was there and, not surprisingly, it worked. Some 300,000 college students picked up that spring issue of College Papers, Rolling Stone's slick new college magazine. Furthermore, more than half of them passed along their copy to a friend. At the Campus Book Store, where the magazhte is on sale, employee Chuck Bosworth reported that the Papers have been selling \sluggishly.\ As with Rolling Stone, also sold at the store, most students buy CP on impulse. Usually displayed on a rack near the exit, the magazine sometimes catches the eye of a student who has just cashed a check and wants to buy something, Bosworth said. Yet Chase's blissed·out beam didn't work for everybody. Certarn \more conservative\ advertisers were \un- comfortable\ with the pull-out- the-stops cover and the spicey copy inside, says College Papers ad manager Billy David. The idea of a national student publication has come up before. \It's a natural idea,\ says Brenda Feld, a publications analyst on Wall Street. \The market is easy to identify, is lucrative, and has plenty of leisure time. It's alsy highly- educated.\ So many magazines have tried, and many have failed. They've been undone by the shifting tastes and attitudes of student readers, by the expense of selling to them, by com- petition from existing magazines that already go to part of the \student market,\ and, these days, by a sluggish economy. . Rolling Stone was probably the fittest and most innovative concern to face those perils when it announced plans for College Papers last year. The magazine was to be a quarterly, and then was re-cast as a three- times-per-year publication. By the time CP staffers were putting_ together the fall, 1980 tssue, they knew that plans for the spring, 1981 issue had already been scrapped. The editors are now shooting for a fall, 1981 issue. \We reaiize most college magazines fail,\ acknowledges CP editor Kate Wenner. Sitting in her small office on one of the four floors that Rolling Stone occupies in a Park A venue skyscraper, she ticks off some of the other ealities ofthe trade. Students are focused on their work and their own ce>mmunity. They don't have lots of Hme to read things other than text- books, or extra money to buy magazines.'' \ The verdict on College Papers' success in drawing student readers is still out. But the magazine's stiffest com- petition has come from another direction-CP's parent Rolling Stone. Rolling Stone) is a problem,\ admits Wenner, whose brother Jann founded and· still edits Rolling Stone. She says CP tries to differentiate itself fr!m its parent by the types of stories it tuns. \We don't, for instance, do many music stories or have a cover with music people.\ similarities are inevitable. CP has the same page size ami paper stock as Rolling Stone. Its .first two covrs-of Chase and Gilda Radner--were reminiscent of Rolling Stone's repeated use of former ''Saturday Night Live\ actors on its covers.· And, of course, Rolling Stone also garners a large college audience. \College is an insular time. \The competition (with Yet in view of the corporate, familial and artistic con- nections--CP gets some editorial and much production assistance from Rolling Stone- The problem shows up most Continued on page 8 If you're thinking a bout a technical position after gradua· tion, think about this. How many companies can offer you a nuclear submarine to operate? The answer is none. Equipment like this is available only in one place- the Navy. The Navy operates over half the nuclear reactors in America. So our training is the broadest and most comprehensive. We start by giving you a year of advanced technical education. In graduate school, this would cost you thousands, but in the Navy, we pay you. Once you're a commissioned Nuclear Propulsion Officer, you'll earn a top salary. Over $24.000 a year after four years. And you'll be responsible for some of the most advanced equipment developed by man. The Navy also has other opportunities in surface ships and aviationassignments. If you are majoring in engineering, math or the physical sciences. contact your placement office to find out when a Navy representative will be on campus. Or contact your Navy representative at 800-841-8000 (in GA call toll-freeS00-342-5855), or send in the coupon. The Navy. When it comes to nuclear training. no one can give you a better start. r----~---------, I' :\A '\'Y OPPORTl'N ITY (\ 185 I I INFOR:'I!ATION CENTER I PO. Box2000 I I Pelham Manor. N~w York 108o:! I I 0 Y~s. I d hkr more mformat1on I I on theN uclear Propulsion 1 ()ffu:-erProgram !(j)NI I I Sam• I ·I I, Addn~\ _______ _ I l'H\ Slate--Zip_ I :1 Agp_t('nllegc lnt\N'IIh ___ I l tGhduniOon lla1e _ OGradE> P01nr -· _ I 6 ~ID!or ~bnnr I Phnne ~ u mbf'T I CNI0/80 Thr r'\1ore Vrt Kn(m. The !\tore Vtc Can ·Help I Thr Pm a c.> Ac;-t under Tttlr 10. Section· 50:1 I 505. and fHOstatas thflf ... nu dn not lunp tn am\\-(>rthe.pPrsonal qupstJons we ha\-t\ osked I Howe\l'r, t,h(l more \H knov.. th(' mar(' aC\tU rllil'l\· wp t'nn dt'termme _\Our quah(Jcat_lons I f.:_~~=~o~~lon~=r~::::~_J NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST. ·. --~· ,q,.,~~\~ -~ ~~~,·~ ~' . .. ( €

OONOO}lDIENSIS, October $3, 1980 Page 5 roun am us 6125 This next week there will be a new source of informatian for Union students. You will be able to call a phone number (6125) and have a recording tell you about all the parties and events gotng on. This· new service is called Union College Info. Une. The number is 6125.· Although there are a lot of events that students would like to put on the recording, a few policies must be made at the onset- 1) The event must be ·open to the whole campus community. Announcements of parties will be allowed, but club meetings which are not open to thewholecampus will not. 2) No .personals will be allowed. 3) No off-campus businesses will be able to use the service for ad- vertising. 4) All messages will be edited, and the final decision to place a message on the tape Will be in the hands of an ad- ministrator in Student Activities. · The recordings will be made on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. If there is a great deal .6f demand, the tapes will be recorded more frequently. Forms for messages are available in Student Activities. The sooner sou submit the form, the sooner it will appear on Union College Info. Line- ·6125. This is your source of in- formation. USE IT! Have fun. Submit all suggestions for improvement of the system to David Stern, Box 772, or Mike Andolina in Student Activities. Debate Tonight The three seJilatorial can- didates of the state's recognized political parties, :Elizabeth Holtzman, Alfonse D'Amato and J·acob Javits, will meet tonight in a televised debate sponsored by the League of Women Voters of New York State. WMHT-TV, the Public Broadcasting Service channel in Schenectady, wiU televise the debate live from Albany at 8 p.m. from the Legislative Office Building, Rockefeller Plaza. Other Public Broadcasting Service channels . in the state are expected to carry the program simultaneously or at a later time that same night. . In designing the debate's format, the League decided to permit questions to be asked by members of the audience. In addition, the candidates ·will have an opportunity to question one another. Elizabeth Hub- hard, State League President, will serve as moderator. Volunteer Program The Union College Student Affairs office, in an effort to increase and better facilitate student voluntarism, is cosponsoring a program with the Schenectady County Human Services. Planning Council. The . program is designed to match Union students with volunteer openings in community organizations. Under the program, a representative of the Planning Council· will be available on GARY NUMAN IITELEKON\ INCLUDES • I DIE: YOU DIE 3.99 . THIS WRECKAGE/REMIND ME TO SMILE Album or tape 3.99 Album or tape \ autumn •• • muSIC from. •• SCHENECTADY 453 State St. 377-2802 ALBANY 211 Central Ave • 434-0085 campus to c;onduct interviews and supply information on volunteer opportunities and a Union students group will coordinate student involvement on campus. The Schenectady County Human Services Planning Cauncil is federally funded by the United States Department of Volunteer Action. The Councilkeepe up-to-date files on volunteer oppQrtunities, en- courages organizations to provide openings, and promotees programs to in- crease volunteerism. Mike Andolina, assistant dean of students, believes that \the Council's large resources wHI aUlow Union ta alleviate the coordination problems that have plagued Union student voluntarism in the past.\ The program will begin this Wednesday, Oct. 29, when Maggie Chessing, a representative for the Council will be on campus to interview students for volunteer openings and to provide general in- formation to students. Ms. Chessing will also be available the following two Wednesdays, Nov. 5 and 12. She will be in Student Affairs by Strauss Lounge between 3 and 5 p.m. Drop by or call Student Mfairs at 6061 to set up an appointm~nt. Physics Grant The Physics Department here has recently been awarded a $15,000 grant by the National Science Foundation to sid in the acquisition · of laboratory equipment for its junior-senior level Modern Physics course. The grant, administered under the NSF Instructional Scientific E q ull-ipmen t Prog;tam, will enable the department to develop a laboratory sequence for this course. The lab will be designed to provide ·physical science undergraduates with unique, \hapds-on experience,. in some of the more practical aspects of the physics of the soiid and liquid states. . The project's principal developers at Union will be Christopher C. Jones, associate professor and the project director; Jay E. Newman . . ' assistant professor; and W. Franklin Titus, associate professor and- department chairman. , -- A.rea Calenda.r - •. FILMS Oct. 27-Russell Sage College will present the film \2001~A Space Odyssey\ at the Schacht Fine Arts Center at Russell Sage. 'J1he film will be shown at 7 and 9: 30 p.m. For further informatioN, call 270·2344. Oct. 30-The Albsmy Public Library will sponsor tlie movie musical \Cover Girl\ starring Rita Hayworth and Gene Kelly. The £ibn will be shown at 1:30 p.m. at the New Scotland Branch of the Albany Public Library, 369 New Scotland Avenue. Oct. 30-The Albany Public \!-ibrary will present the films \Union Maids\ and \With . Babies and Banners: Story of · the Women's Brigade.\ The films will be shown at 8 p.m. in . the Main Library ,r 161 Washington Avenue. LECTURE Oct. 30--Dealing With Problem Behavior will be discussed as part of a series of Programs for Parents to be held at 7:30 p.m. in Conference Room No. 1 of Albany Public Library, 161 Washington Avenue. Counselor, Karen Mahar, will lead the program. For further information, call 449-3380. ~ r-----------~Coupon---~-------- ..... : · Silver Shears t I I ~ Unisex Salon § ~ ~ ~ ~ 374 EASTERN AVE. SCHENECTADY 5 ·; $2.00 Qff on any Haircut : I Offer expires Nov. 1 I Callforappointment372-7311 : !_ ___________ Coupon. ___________ .J I ECM I PAT METHENY 8.99 Album or tape IECMI ' 3.99w Album or tape 80/81 SARATOGA 446 Broadway 584 .. 8884 .JEAN·LUC PONTY ,.CIVILIZED EVIL\ 4.99 Album or tape INClUDES lllfi DEMAGOMANIA HAPPY ROBOTS/FORMS OF LIFE BB·7 0~ a asyum 8.99 Album or tape SALE ENDS SUNDAY 10/26 GLENS FALLS 234 Glenn St. 798-6055 HOURS Mon.-Fri. 10-9 Sat. 10-6, Sun. 12·

'I Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS, October ~3, 1980 cultur~ Henry Paul Band . Rocks Memorial Chapel By TED BEHAR Henry Paul Band Henry Paul-Guitar, Vocals I don't think that a concert in the Memorial Chapel cauld be too bad. Think about it, the band 1s in our backyard, it only costs five dollars and all of the audience is filled with either people we recognize or good friends. It's a big party. Bill Crain-Lead Guitar, Vocals David Fiester-Lead and Slide Guitars, Vocals Wally Dentz-Bass, Harmonica, Vocals Barry Rapp--Keyboards, Vocals Monte Y oho-Drums Bill Hoffman-Drums Performance: October 17, 1980,8 p.m.; Memorial Chapel, Union College Well, the Henry Paul Band eoncert last Friday was no exception. It was a party, even if it only lasted an hour and ten minutes. Songs Played: Feel The Heat Free-Born Man So Long I Can See It (In Your Eyes) Fun at ~ By LISA LIVSHIN Movies ... oh, I love movies - the great escape into technicolor. However, I have a tendency to get very annoyed with people in movie theatres. There are many kinds of an- noying moviegoers; maybe you've encountered them or (Heaven -forbid) .maybe you are one of them . . . Type A- This person has seen the movie before. He comes to the movie with someone who hasn't seen it, sits near you, and narrates. This person gives a play by play account of what's GOING to happen. You'll frequently hear this Type A person say things such as, \Now watch this\ \This is the best part\ or \Don't worry, he doesn't die\. I most recently encountered a Type A person while viewing Star Trek. The women on iny left believed she had been aboard the Starship Enterprise and acted as tour !.{uide for the audience. Type B- This person eats their dinner (or a near sub- stitute l during the movie. He consumes popcorn and pepsi during the previews, raisinets and sugar free Sprite throughout the movie and ice WRUC Album At Ten 10-23 Thursday Specials More 10-27 Monday Spyro Gyra Carnival 10-28 Tuesday Steve Reich Music for a Large Ensemble 10-29 Wednesday Bruce Springsteen The River Record one 10-30 Thursday Bruce Springsteen The River Record two listen to WR UC at 10:00 p.m. Monday thru Thursday for the latest releases Crossfire . Whiskey Talkin' Grey Ghost Knoxville Girl Shot to Hell Turn It Up With the Chapel almost packed, the band. showed up at 8:15, fashionably late for a rock band. They opened up with the title cut from their latest album, \Feel the Heat.\ This live version differed little from the the Movies cream during the credits. This Type B perstm chews loudly, makes a lot of wrapper noises, and gets up many times during the movie. This person sits next to you. You are between him and the nearest aisle. Type C- Type C people come to the movies in pairs. (With the exception of the grinRing men in raincoats). Yes ... these are the \neckers\ and sexual deviants. For the most part, the \neckers\ are on the young side and have learned that the price of two movie tickets is much more economical than a hotel room. Type C people make bedroom noises. They really mean no harm to anyone - but they can be very distracting. During the slow part of the movie- it's very easy to make them your entertainment. Type D- This person is tall. Very tall. Extremely tall. As a matter of fact, this person is the tallest one in the theatre. The Type D person sits directly in front of you. No· matter how strategically you seat yourself so as to get an uninterrupted view of the screen the Type D person finds you. When this happens, you might regress - feel very put upon, teary and whiny - or perhaps you play the • martyr. Your friends aU say, \Can you see? Can y.ou see? \or .· \Do you want to trade with me?\ You answer, \I'm fine, just fine.\ So you sit there and try to see over the tallgerson's shoulder orund.er their armpit . . . but tall people never have enough leg room so they ( \Oh no! not the shift - ers!.,) shift alot. Eventually you get a sore neck and give up. You watch the Type C people. Type E-Pity me! I grew up with a brother who was a Type F: person. This is the person who has to be tl1e first one out of the theatre. In fact, he has to be the first one out of the theatre parking lot. This Type E person does not wait for the end of the movie (you know, the part before the credits). This person has no idea that some movies are nonficti{)nai because he never gets to see the written epilogue at the end of such movies. Nor does he realize that the chara\cters eventually come out of their flashbacks - they don't wait long enough to find out. The Type E person always, without fail, sits in an aisle seat. TO BE CONTINUED NEXT WEEK: TYPE F THRU J October 23 presents: 1st Act: a skit by Kim Nogay 2nd Act: Beth Baumgarten & Deb~ie. Poletto Come see SDT's Finestl Shows at 9:00 and J J :00 Tickets on sale in Ca.rnegie on Thursday from 2:30 - 4:30 p.m. album versioFl. Highlights of the show included an amazing performance of \So Long,\ the title cut of their 1979 \Grey Ghost\ effort, which included an intoxicating distortion jam at the climax. The first encore- The Outlaws' tune, \Knoxville Girl,\ and the last encore, \Turn It Up,\ were clearly the white-hottest points in the show.· In general, the concert was rockier than their albums yet jazzier than most southern rock shows. The climaxes were dean and tight and the lead guitar licks precise and flawless . The band, however, should be called ''The Henry~ Paul, Bill Crain and David. Fiester Band \ . . ' since the lead guitarists con- tribute'd as much, if not more, than .Henry Paul. Henry Pau'l was the least enthusiastic on stage. H appeared he wanted to get the show over with and get back :to sleep. And get it over with he did. We were out of the Chapel by 9:30. The bass player, drummers and keyboard player were expendable, as I saw ·it. The few songs written by Barty Rapp were the least inspiring of the evening. · This is not to say that the hour and a half spent in the Memorial Chapel wasn't worth it. Due to the proximity of the band, the psyched crowd and the good songs, ~he evening was very well spent. Keep it up, Concert Committee. CQ:FFEEHOUSE presents: Peter Sears, a 1979' U.C. alumnus Saturday; Oct.--2-5 in the Cabaret Room of Casnegie Hall Peter is a ,great performer fYov may even have already ca·ught his act at the speci.ai orientation Coffeehouse last month, remem- ~er?}. The show begins at 8:30sharp. Admission 1s a mere dollar, and coffee, tea, and lots of fluffy donuts will be served (.for free)! · Crucible History By DARREN SAUNDERS · AndJOECRISTOFARO It is ludicrous to conceive of \witches\ in this sophisticated age. However, in the year 169~, such a notion was quite ac- ceptabfe. Consider the Puritans, a group of religious, sober, and pious people who were living in New England at that time. These people abided by every word of .the :Sible, and several allusions to witchcraft are made in the Old Testament. For example, in Exodus xxii, 18: \Tholl. shalt not suffer a witch to live.\ Aside from the religious implications, legal authorities in England were convinced of the existence of witchcraft, and executions for the crime had already been staged at Charlestown, Cam- bridge, Hartford, Dorchester, and Springfield. In 1692 the \disease... spread to Salem. Salem is an abreviation for Jerusalem and means \peace.\ The town of 1700 inhabitants is situated beautifully on the Massachusettes Bay, almost encircled by water. To the west there were vast forests and large plantations. Located a few miles from Salem was a place referred to as Danver's Center, home of Reverand, Samuel Parris, then minister of Dan- ver's small , church. In the winter of 1691-92, Parris' niece, Abigail, and his daughter Betty, shocked the Danvers com- munity with their absurd behavior. Sporadically, they would creep under tables, gesticulate in contorted motions, utter inarticulate cries, and fall into convulsions. - The children's actions were credited to their being tor- mented by specific people who allegedly had communication with the devil. for siK months, from the first · accusation in March to the last execution in September. Although no one was bumed for ·the ''cr1me,\ nineteen persons were hanged, and one man was pressed to death. In addition, hund11eds of innocent people were thrown into prison or forced to flee from their homes. The event could be considered an epidemic of mad fear, brought about by superstition, · an:xiety ~ and the social situation of the puritans. It scared all of the Bay Colony and was bitterly regretted by those who were involved. The phenomenom began abruptly,· became the focal point of everyone~s lives for six months, and then ended just as suddenly as it began. No matter now or when one looks back at 1he occurence, it is most fittingly described as bizarre. · One person who took an in- terest ill thts historical event was Artbur Miller. After doing a great deal of research on the subject, Mr. Miller wrote \The Crucible.\ .The .pl!=IY recreates the people, the mood, and the events - which took place in Salem, Massachusettes nearly 300 years ago. Why did a contemporary playvvright decide to write about ail event that occured so long ago? Mr. Miller claims that even today we can learn from what happened during those si:x months, and that it is pertine11t to today's social systems. - \Next month the Union College Arts Department will present \The ,Crucible.\ You need not have any special interests in history ()r drama to enjoy the show. When you enter the Nott Memorial Theater you will find yow·self in Salem in 1692, and the tragedy will unrold before '-----------------·~_,,_.--,..,·\:;; ·..;· ·-·· _.;;;.;; .. \; · •·• ·•<'Phe tragedy~ in Salem lasted your eyes. m By DAN Homecor:r been more I than it wast The acts th wild evenin , 1 f the b€st to. :\s usua show. the parents anc and enthu tirular Cal JIIO!II€1ltUS that profes~ and even h aAd it mark sint·e the cl to pretzels <: sure if Caba same withe nut-thrower was a lot eli that the c1: easier on tl ·the vacuum The late very owr ~ydegger,v some easy, the guitar. \The Unde1 up the temp written in t that ''no tenure wo1 public\. Th Etkin, Ken :vienken, we Charlie Ti companied Linholm on added his talent as th songs frorr \Little Da Sor There w~ anybody--<J Actually tb but only or other sat de the mellow The active around the beer, yellin Each tim1 mellow buc made it arc the two wo lumpy rna drooling, in What was I l After what like years . they flowec slept sound! it somethin! IF YC YC

CONCORDIENSIS~ OctO'ber B3~ 1980 .. . . ' . mecdm ing Cabaret By DANA HENDERSON Jive\. The kitchen . crew sup- plied some sideline, background vocals for a few of their golden oldies and it seemed like everyone was having a great tirne. Page 7 culture Homecoming couldn't have been rnore fervently celebrated than it was t.his year at Cabaret. The acts ~h1s_ week t?a.de for a wild evenmg and defuutely one ,>f the best Cabarets I've been 10 . :\s usual for our 11 o'cloc~ show. the crowd of alumni,· pan·nts and ~rieryds wa~ rowdy and enthusiast.rc. This par- ticular Cabaret marked two 111 omentus events: we learned that professors are real people and even have secret talents; at'ld it marked the first Ca:baret- sinl'e the change from peanuts to pretzels as munchies.· I'm not surt' if Cabaret will be quite the same without those nuts and nut-throwers but it certainLy was a lot cleaner. We're hoping that the change will make. it easier on the performers. (and the vacuums). The second act gave us the slightly mellower side of Cabaret with Jeff Battin on guitar doing rno~tly original tunes. Once again Battin held the ,audience with his tale11t and '8 sensitive music. Jeff Battin is ~ an alumnus and a familiar face '5 at Cabaret, and this week he oc surprised us with a newly f/) formed group called .. Zot\. ·~ After a few solos, he was joined 6 by Irene Bestrel, Mary Szot and >- Leslie Nadel .singing harmony .o and Steve Marks, the talented E singe~ and. guita~isL I .~ especrally liked \Ftrefly\, \Eternity''' and Battin's little rendition of \Just a Tune\ about S&M. I thought the two groups made for a nice change from the usuai Cabaret acts. It looks like there is going to be a wide variety of talent (both on stage and behind the scenes) this year and I'm looking for- ward to some great Cabarets. \Hoopa Hoopa, Hoopa\ sings Charlie \The Tid\ Tidma.rch (left) as Irwin Menken sets the pace at Cabaret - The late show emcee, our verv own Doctor Rudy ~ydegger ,war:I?ed us up with some easy, Ia 1d-back blues on the guitar. He was joined hy \The Undergrads\ and picked up the tempo with a song he had written in high school and one that ''no professor without tenure would have done in public\. The Undergrads, JiJ?l Etkin, Ken Carlson and Irwm Menken, were lead by Professor Charlie Tidmarch and ac- companied by alumnus Peter Linholm on guitar. Jim Etkin added his famous harmonica talent as the group did several songs from the 1950's like \Little Darlin'\ and \Hand Let's take a minute to recognize_ some of the back stage \acts\ and the force behind the show at Cabaret.. This year marks a few changes in the establishment which is affectionately known as \Sue's Place\ after our fearless leader, Susan Grey. Both Steve Marks and Mary Szot had a hand in the running of the Cabaret kitchen until it was eventually turned over to Mary, Nelen Hanson and myself. I thought I'd take this op- !llOrtunity to make my plug for the ever faithful and cheerful kitchen crew. Of course, we can't forget those efficient waiters and waitresses who bring you your generous ser- vings · of wine, beer or rmnalcoholic punch. So when you are enjoying those fantastic shows that Cabaret is famous for, vernernber the backstage crew and if you stick around some night, you might just catch our three part, inebriated rendition of the alma mater. All in all, it's a great way to spend a Thur- -sday night. Something -Fro~ Smythe Ther:e was a guy-not just anybody--out on the roof. Actually there were two guys, but only one was active. Tile other sat down and melted into the mellow yellow backdrop. The active guy kept jumping around the roof, choking on his beer, yelling \TURN. IT UP!\ Each time he yelled, his mellow buddy joined in ana made it a rousing chorus. 'I'heJ;I the two would collapse into a lumpy mass, laughing and· drooling, in complete hysterics. What was I to do? I turned it up. After what must have seemed like years to the two jokers, they flowed back inside and slept soundly until dinner. Was it something they ate? I think not. This behavior was the result of a post-examination excursion to the skellar. What are _normal Smythies (normal Smythies?) lik~ ourselves t~ do with social deviants such as the aforementioned? We could leave them to the vices of Frisbee and Ingy (Wow!), but they would never forgive us (Frisbee and Ingy, I mean). What's red and green and goes. Okay. It was really something they've been eating. Here's a pointer for. everyone. You should study, and remember, \it's not ,Jlow many classes you go to, it's how many you bag.\ (She'd have a great resume if they didn't ask for grades.) !he girl next door (she better -marry an engineer, or at least plan to have no shelves in her house) told me that Eustas can climp up on top of his wheel t() try and escape. Now doesn't that inspire you? Why aren't y()u studying? You know, in some courses eve~ybody in the class got together and did no work . . . what do you mean you haven't . cracked a book yet? It's getting late. It's later than you think. Eere's one for all you gam- blers. You cannot win , .. (If he misses this kick, I'm gonna stick you in the fireplace.) .. Don't you hate it when they say, \write a unified essay.\ Did that unify it? THE CAMPUS CHAPTER OF (Killing As Organized Sport) IS NOW FORMING IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN OUR SERVICES, PLEASE SEND YOUR NAME AND BOX No. TO BOX 832, or 1041 Cohoes Music Hall Season Announced After six years as the home of a professional theater company and several months speculation about its future as a performing arts center, Cohoes Music Hall will launch a new season on November 7 that not only puts it back inbusiness, but puts it back in the business for which it was originally intended-music. Under the auspices of the City of Cohoes and with financial support from the Morlite Company, a newly formed non- profit corporation called Spindle City Concerts, Inc. will · present -a varied musical calendar of four programs through next April. The renowned JuilliardString Quartet will open the season on Friday evening, November 7, with a program of three quartets composed by Mozart, Verdi and Brahms. On January 24, Dixieland group, the New Black Eagle Jazz Band will perform the venerable music of King Oliver, Scott Joplin, Jelly Roll Morton, Louis Armstrong, Sidney · Bechet and Duke Ellington. Virtuoso flamenco guitarist Carlos Montoya, who has entertained audiences for four decades with his innovative style, will perform at the Hall on March 6. Ragtime pianist Max Morath will close the season on April 24 with a blend of music, humor, history and satire woven into a unique interpretation of American life, from the Gay Nineties to the Roaring Twenties. Also scheduled at the Hall this season is a Sunday afternoon chamber music series sponsored and per- formed by the Albany Sym- phony Orchestra. Anxious to distinguish the Cohoes Music Hall facility, which· the City has always owned and maintained, from the now-defunct Cohoes Music Hall, Inc., the theqter company which formerly leased the Hall and ceased operation last April, Mayor Ronald Canestrari stressed that the newly-formed non-profit organization, Spindle City Conert~, Inc., has no relationship whatsoever with the_Hall's former tenants. programming. Canestrari, who himself is a member of the group's board of directors, said that it clearly sought to attract programs which \will com- pliment rather than compete with the Capital District's year- round calendar of cultural events.\ \Over 100 years ago, some farsighted Cohoesiers built this · wonderful facility because they wanted to bring music into their community and into their lives. Now we'd like to finish the restoration job we began almost ten years ago by returning musical programming for a substantial part of its season,\ the Mayor said. Cohoes city officials decision to bring back to the Cohoes Music Hall is laregly based on the advice of the New York State Council on the Arts, which su'bmitted two reports on the future uses of the Hall. Lately I have been tr>mking a lot about you, my friend, probably because you remind me of ferris wheels and laughter and sunsets. And lately my thoughts of you set me free · when it is raining in me, and the.y let me climb up the rain drops, and dance on the cl. uds, and laugh, and scream, and sing, and never get wet Lately I find myse seeing the s:ars probably because you are so car1ng, and so giving, fifferentfy. and so understandmg and i! shows in the gentle brigfltness of your friendly eyt'S. And lately I cry now and then, probably because you are so beautiful , that you make me feel beautiful and peacefu1 and happy-- but most probably because I love yoo so much. By Demefra M. Pontisakos He said instead that Spindle City Concerts Inc. was charged with mobilizing city efforts to revitalize the Hall as a _per- forming arts center. Mayor Canestrari said that the group would·be open to all reasonable proposals for Music Hall '-----------------------\\\\'\-~ .... --~--~--. \:\\\\~-\~=.~ .. ~-.,.,~. -~~-~-•w~. \:~.~.'!::!'- ·..:·~~ ... -. .._,, • ..,.... . ..,_,..._~~~...,-.:__..._.,..,ot. • • ,,..,_ .1'\\\ \ .... r;;..-,.~~.~

Page 8 OONOORDIENSJS~ October 23~ 1980 Big Broth·ers Big Helpers Union Jazz Ensemble plays on Jay Street two years ago Ensemble Swings By LENNY KIRSCH in mid-November. Loek for signs and announcements as to the exact date and time of the concert and plan to be there - it pro'mises to be one of the highlights of the term. Opinion: By JOANNEM. WHITE If you enjoy working with. children and getting toget~er with other Union students who share your interest, Big Brothers-Big Sisters may he the experience you are seeking. Big Brothers-Big Sisters of Union College is a vital, rapidly- expanding organization whose membership has tripled in the past three years. Partially responsible for the success of Big Brothers at Union is an executive board of five studertts, an of whom are big brothers or sisters: Neil Rosenbaum, Jeff Ince, Tip Simons, Debbie Baertschi, and Maria Manfredonia. These students formulate a buqget to be used for activites, and work to guarantee ita approval by the Student Tax Committee. Monies are used for planned activities a_nd for maintenance .of a car which was donated by the Schenectady Chapter of Big Brothers and may. be signed out in Fiji lounge for outings with little brothers and sisters. \ In recent years, Big Brothers- Big Sisters has sponsored trips to the Ice Capades and to River~ide Park for members. Special rates for movies and meals at West College, and free tickets for Burger King, which sponsors many events, have been offered. 'Lhis fall, an orientation picnic was held for all students in the program. Anticipated events include a Thanksgiving Dinner on Sun- day, November 23rd, a Christmas party, and free .films on campus.. Plans are also underway for ·obtaining tickets for college athletic events for Big Bvothers and Sisters on a limited budget. Highlighting fund ralSlng events wi:ll be a raffle for a two hour, 5,000 foot balloon ride. A once in ·a lifetime advanture the ride also provides a mean~ for students who don't have time to be a Big Brother or Sister to offer their support. Three people m1;1y ride in the ballaon, and a second one may be launched if enough students purchase tickets, around the second week in N:ovember. This year 100 students at. tended the Big Brother Big Sister orientation meeting including 48 freshmen. At thi~ · meeting, simulations of potential problems gave in- terested students insight into working with the children and handling difficulties that might arise. Neil rosenbaum noted that there have been no major · conflicts since the program began five years .ago. Although it is coordinated with the Schene_ctady Chapter, Union's Big Brother-Big Sister is essentially an indepenent organization. Union students · comprise 40 percent of the Big Brothers and Sisters in .Schenectady County. · The Union Jazz Ensemble has fast become a College tradition. Although the Ensemble is but five years old, it has centinually worked to improve its musical virtuosity, versatility, and repetoive. This year promises to be the finest yet for the band. For the first time, the Ensemble owns its own electric piano and amplification system. In ad- dition, the band has an ex- tremely talented new con- ductor, Michael Scott, a professional trombonist who teaches music at the Corinth Central School. Scott, who recently graduated from the prestigious Crane School of Music at SUNY at Potsdam, is Time to 'Co-op'erateHere? As Tip Simons noted, carefully :;creened interviews are conducted with all petential candidates in the· program to ensure successful matching of personalities and interests. Most children in the program are from: single parent families or have parent who work. What a little brother or sister needs most of all is a friend who he can depend on for com· panionship at least once a week. Tutoring is not a typical hap- pening, but, says Tip: \If a child wants help in anything, we will effer to provide it.\ · very excited to be conducting the Ensemble and feels that the band has a tremendous potential which will soon be realized in achieving new levels of excellence. The enthusiasm generated by Scott's leadership has caused the band members to look foward to the twice weekly rehearsals as well as the in- dividual sectional practices. Judging from this past ·satur- day's performance in the Alumni Gym for Homecoming, the excitement about the Ensemble is well justified. The band played a wide variety of songs by great jazz composers ranging from Count Basie and Glenn Miller to Maynard Ferguson and Sammy Nestico as entertainment for the President's Reception. The musicians in the Ensemble, both individually and collec- tively strive constantly to learn and improve their playing by exploring new areas of iazz. ' . The members of the- Union Jazz Ensemble include Hank W oiler, Rich Altman, Kevin Angus, Scott Buffington, and Laura Robin playing in the Sax section; trombonists Andy McNutt, Brad Fisher, Sean Seibert, and Pete Aleska; Lenny Kirsch, John Sciortino, Dave Bliss, Adam Arfa, Rich Klingler, and Andre Enceneat in the Trumpet section; and in the Rythym section, Paul Sabatino plays bass, Steve Larsen is on the piano, Larry Deutsch is the ~uitarist, Mark Klaiman plays the vibes, and Jason Brandt and Larry Kanusher are the per- cussionists. The Ensemble's manager is Tom Goldstein, who did a good job in organizing the band and in helping to get it off to a great start. The Jazz Ensemble is working hard for and very much looking foward to its annual Fall Concert. As is traditional, the concert will be free of charge and will be held in Memorial Chapel sometime By JEFF SCARDINO There are many tangible benefits to reap at Union while spending four years of your life here. There are other benefits which are extremely vital while others are results from mere pleasure. However, there is one benefit which could be had by many if only there were a means to channel such a con- venience as a food co-op. What is a food co-op? What are the benefits? What are the advantages and disadvantages? Could it survive at Union? These are just a few of the many of the questions which are at the surface which when answered could be the key rationale to embark on this lacking service which could provide a benefit to so many Union students. A food co-op for the purposes to serve such a constituency as Union is an organization which has the sole purpose of providing a service to other members by offering a select group of preferred groceries. There is a governing board which sets the policy and oversees the implementation of their policy in addition to seeing to the basic maintenance of the co-op. A co-op is not meant to compete With marKet giants such as our own Price Chopper. A co-op such as the one that could exist at Union would be quite small and therfore it would be limited to the in- - ventory that could be sold. But the inventory would most likely consist of the very extreme essentials needed by many. The benefits are numerous if you take the time to think about it. How many times have you realized that you needed a loaf of bread, or needed some milk or just wanted yogurt? And if you wanted these items in addition to others were you able to get to a grocery store or was there a hassle of getting a ride or it was too late or it was just very incomenient for you to fiod a way to the store? There have been many who have ex- perienced this or will ex- perience this at one point or another while here at Union. A Food Co-op could help alleviate this hassle and inconvenience. The Co-op would be located on campus which is the central focal point of all the college community which would prove to be accessible to all. In ad- dition, the co-op could offer . their items at quite a reduced cost to Union students, The main objective is not to make a sizable profit rather the main objective is to offer an alter- native for persons to purchase a select group of groceries. It also offers the convenience of saving time which for some at Union is vital. The cost to operating and to initially set it up could vary but the variance would not be to extreme nor would the costs be too high. This is !!11 relative to the location though. The Co-op would be a membership group comprised of students to serve students. These are just a few of the benefits and advantages. There are others. The biggest disadvantage is the amount of items that this co-op could stock. The answer to whether it could survive at Union lies in the interest and motivation generated. This project could blossom into quite a sophisticated operation, if given the chance. Food Co-ops have proved quite successful for a number of Universities a'nd Colleges across the country. The closest example of a suc- cessful one is right in Union's backyard~ at the State University at Albany. Theirs is approximately six years old and was a success right from its initial stage of development. Other institutions have their own version of a co-op, and in each case success has College/ Papers Continued from page 4 acutely in advertising. \Some of the accounts approached said they already use Rolling Stone or National Lampoon to reach college audiences,\ ad manager David laments .. Wenner, on the other hand, blames the slack economy for CP's failure to get more ads more quickly. \Money is tight,\ she says, shaking her head and explaining that it is \the biggest reason\ CP was forced to -drop its spring, 1981 issue. AdvertisiQg aside, industry reports are favorable. Although spring issue, sales were disappointing (only three-fifths of the press run was sold), a survey found that 77 percent of its readers would like to see more, and 60 percent said they would like to see monthly issues. prevailed. The co-op could provide employment for a few students. :The bottom line of success has been quite good for all of the institutions which have chosen to embark on this project. The necessary capital equipment for a food co-op isn't that much. Refrigeration (preferably mobile), a meat slicer (optional), a cash register, shelving and a scale. The success group of products offered are the following. Bread, eggs, cheese, yogurt, milk, juices, bagels, cold cuts, nuts, coffee, tea, fresh fruit, butter, margarine·; peanut butter, cereals, cottage cheese, tab, decaffinated coffee, and Freighofer's bakery goods. Why hasn't . this been proposed before? Maybe it has been and the idea was buried due to a lack of interest. 'l'he important matter at hand presently is whether there is an adequate amount of interest for a project of this sort to get of the ground at Union. This is just a little food for thought. What hapens to a relationship· when one's college days are over? \Some continue friend· ships,\ notes Jeff Ince. \But after graduation, most find a . young friend to take over. Some poeple do keep in touch. A guy from Poughkeepsie· with IBM still contacts his little brother.\ Big Brother-Big Sisters in Schenectady now has over 150 children still in need of Big Brother and Sisters. Ther.e are no restrictions based on sex; for example, . women may adopt little brothers if they choose. Anyone interested in the program is encouraged to contact a member of the board as soon as possible. Carn~gie Improved By FRED FENTER Several o'f Carnegie Hall's lounges and conference rooms have recently undergone renovation, and are now ready and waiting for meetings and other social functions of the College community. Highlighting the aiterations are the recently completed Conference Room A and the Student Activity Lounge. Conference Room A, found on the second floor of Carnegie, can accommodate groups of about 25 to 30, while the Student Activity Lounge, located on the fourth floor, has facilities for ·five to ten additional group members. Students, faculty, and staff are all encouraged to utulize these rooms for meetings, small parties, wine and cheese gatherings, and similar functions. For larger gatherings, or for meals of other than snacks or pizza, the Banq11et Room located on the first level of Carnegie would be appropriate. Any group meeting in the Banquet Room can enlist the aid of the College Food Service and Maintenance. However, these departments must be. notified one to two weeks in advance of the scheduled meeting to allow for preparation. The policy concerning Strauss Lounge has also changed. The lounge will now be'\>pen all day for general use by Union students, faculty, and staff, and will contain current magazines and game sets such as backgammon. Strauss Lounge can now be utilized for such activities as meeting friends, reading mail, or just relaxing between •classes. Should an impromptu meeting of an organization in Strauss Lounge be necessary, a placard outside the lounge will be available to announce .. the meeting. The Student Activities Office urges all campus groups to use these new facilities. To schedule for a conference room, call Diane Winkler at extension 6098 well ahead of time and specifY · the preferred facility. If your organization has decided to call a meeting at the last minute, a College Center Assistant will be at the desk in the lobby of Carnegie Hall, and he will schedule a meeting in anY facility that has not alreadY been reserved. These hand· sornely refurnished rooms will be availal!lle for use October 27, so plan now on taking ad· vantage of these recent ad·. ditions to the Union College community. - BULLE All s1 applying 8io1ogy meeting 23, 1980 Genetics encoura! jllniors < Secretar Anyont filling U voting rr Forum, recordin1 minutes meeting, Chairpe: Catherin• 6914. OnThu at 8:00 meeting c Council. held in Library Posters 4E L; I 0 z -l I m L ,0 {l) I m >< \'0 m ;;o m z () m I -MI Jus poir Hur ro shi1 me No bri bri Tl Sh $1 nt nt M;: Nar A de Cit) Stat

, . have er or pport. the may the at- Big . tais · of in- into and · · Big in . to of ests. he hap- If a we are a guy IBM in 150 Big are ; for dopt the to The daY and as nds, an an side e to use call cifY call be of will anY 27, ad· ad· ege \ OONOORDIENSIS) October ~9. 1980 clasSifieDS BULLETIN BOARD All students interested in applying to Graduate school in ; · Biology should attend the • meeting on Thursday, October 23, 1980 at 4:30 p.m. in the Genetics Lab CS301). All are encouraged to, attend including jWliors and sopomores. Position Open Secretary of theStudertt Forum Anyone who is interested in filling this position as a non- voting member of the Student Forum, whose duties include recording and distributing the minutes of each Forum meeting, shoiJld contact the Chairperson of the COC. Catherine Johnson, Box 888, 370- 6914. On Thursday, October 23, 1980 at 8:00 p.m. there will be a meeting of the Union University Council. The meeting will be held in the Medical College Library on- the fifth floor. Posters ~ir~cting you to the 464 State St. we deliver room will be posted in con- spicuous places. Topics ofthsis meeting: -University Housing Coun- cil's organization charter and current policies. -Report from film program Ombudsman. -Report from Development Committee. -University Tax Discusl!ion. -Treasurer's Report. If you wish to place aiiy issues or requests before the Council please contact me at 482-9077 or leave a message in the University Association mailbox. ATTENTION: SENIOR- S!!!!! The following are sign-up changes in your recruiting schedule: Sign-ups for Singer Link Div, Burroughs, FaJnir Bearing -have been changed from November 24 at ,1: 15/· to November 20 at 1:15 p.m. Sign-ups for. G.eneral Electric Company have been changed from November 24 at 10:30 a.m. to November 20 at 2:30p.m. The U.S. Marines will be available to talk with students on October 29 and 30 in CAR- Schenectady 374-1888 -MEET NEW PEOPLE-HELP OTHERS- .. I 0 z -1 I m L ,0 .OJ m >< \\0 m ;:u lnfonnation on Volunteerism. OJmes to Union ' ' -BEGINNING OCT. 29- m - 3 p.m.-5 p.m. in STUDENT AFFAIRS OFFICE I ·~ )> 7': m < )> r c )> to r m n 0 z -1 z Just stop by or ca II 6061 for a persona I n pointment with a Representative from l Human Services Planning Council.· ap-)> then -1 en HAVE TOLl LYASON ro get those great. green, . ortable, cotton doctor's. shirts or pants;you don't have t~ spend a fortune on medical school and your whole life as a doctor an~more. _ Now juS:i-$10 buys the shirt, Sl2 the pants, They may not bring you a doctor's life of comfort. But they're sure to bring you some comfortable living. The original comfortable cotton doctor shirt Shirt$10. Pants$12. S,M,L,XL. $1.50 postage per order. number of shirts _______ size~--- numb~rofpants. _______ size ___ _ Mail to: Surgical Wear 21200cean Avenue· Brooklyn, New York 11229. Name ________ ~-------~- Address ___ \\\'\_~---------- City·---------~..:...... ______ _ State _________ ZIP ______ _ I NEG IE HALL from 11:00 to ·2:00p.m. . ON NOVEMBER 15, 1980, the National Security Agency will · again administer an aptitude test known as the Professional · Qualification Test (POT). For more infarmation stop by the Placement Office. IBM--Burlington VT., General Technology Division, Seini Conductor & Development and Manufacturing Laboratory · will be on campus on NOVEMBER 7,1980. SIGN-UPS WILL BE· ON OCTOBER 24 at 1:15 p.m. The Photo Club is sponsoring · a seminar on \Use. of •Low . Sensitivity Ftlrns'' on Thur- sday, October 16th at 4 P.M. in the Carnegie Conference Room (3rd Floor, Across from WRUC). All are welcome to attend. Mr. Robert Patraw, .a fully qualified teacher of the Tran- scendental Meditation technique will give a lecture on the benefits of the Tran- scendental Meditation program for college students. He will speak on Monday, December 1, at 8 p.m. in Strauss Lounge, in Carnegie Hall. There will be a $1 admission fee for adults who do not work on campus. ATTENTION: There is a tutorial sess·ion · scheduled Sundays at 8:00-9: 00 p.m. and Wednesday at 8:00-9:00 p.m. for those needing help in Introductory Economic> courses. These sessions Will be held in Lower Hale House. A step-by-step self- assessment workshop designed primarily for, but not limited to, the liberal arts student .. ·The session will focus on identifying .transferable and fuHctionai skills, work and life values, anu will lay the groundwork for .establishing a tentative career direction. Also included will be a discussion of liberal arts education and its relationship to careers. Wednesd,ay, October 29, 6:30- 8:30 p.m. Limited to 10 participants (additional workshops will be run if there is enough demand). Sign up in the Office of Placement and Career Resources. - Addressers wanted immediately:! Work at home - no experience necessary - excellent pay! Write:· Nati,onal Serv~ce 9041 Man•fi.eld Suite 2004 Shreveport, L.ouisiana 71118 ATTHE RAT Thur. Oct .. --23 9 - close Matt's 7 oz. bottle 3-$1.00 Fri. Oct. 24 4- 7 p .. m. Attitude Readiustment Period Pabst & Matt's 25c Drafts $1.00 Pitchers Tue$. Oct. 28 Rathskellar October/est lowenbrau 2 D $1.00 Thurs. Oct. 30 Come French at the Rat wi.th French Colombard Wine .14 oz. cup $1 .00, ......_ __ ._ ... 'for PRESIDENT UNION COLLEGE CAM·PAIGN WE NEED VO.LUNTEERSI For lnforma.tion, Call .Chuck Breln 785·1408 785-8585 P_age 9 Two Public Lectures: -\Alice Paul: The making of a feminist'' -Christine Ltlnardin- Wednesday, Oct. 29, 7:30 p.m. SS 115. \The Wipping Post for Wife Beaters 1882-1906\ Elizabeth Pleck-Thurs., Nov. 6, 7:30p.m. SS115. Prof. Nancy Jo Delaney will speak on the future of Data Analysis: Robust Procedures. Thurs., Oct. 30, 3:45 p.m. BH 207 . One Roommate sought for 3 bedroom apartment, two blocks from campus, Winter and Spring Terms. Rent and utilities approximately $90 pef' serson. Call 372-3226. (Seniors pr~ferred) Sunday, Oct .. 26 Rev. Kenneth Doyle, Editor of The Evangelist, Albany wi:U be here for Campus Ministry Mass. SENIORS!! The Photographer will be here in Strauss Lounge on Friday 10·24 from 9-12:30, Tuesday, and Wednesday 10-28-10-29 from 9- 12:30 and Thursday and Friday 10-30-10-31 from 9-4:00. Check your proofs and if you wish to take them with you a $10 deposit is required. Union College Schenectady County Committee for JAVITS urgently needs your help! Call 372-3226. WILL YOU BE DRAFTED? Steve Hyman, lawyer and draft counselor, will speak on the constitutionality of Draft Registration. Thursday, October 23,8:30 P.M. in Strauss Lounge. Sponsored by the International Relations Club. You don't have to be normal to like normal music. Listen to the \Free and Easy\ radio show every Sunday from 11:30 A.M. to 2:00 P.M.It's only on WRUC 90.9FM in Stereo. PERSONALS to J-1 like you even if you're sick. Feel better. S. Kel-1 love you! Cory-Jill Fuzzy and Canadian: Thought you would escape the personals, huh? Thanks, brothers! Love, Cory. Chuck-1 just think you're so cute, when you play frisbee in your white bandana. Love, De me Aid Revamped Continued from page, I per year, for an aggregate undergraduate total of $15,000. A student who is independent can apply for $500 more for a guaranteed loan after Jan. 1. Tne Parent Loan Program 1 PLP l is a new loan program effective next July 1. ''Any parent of any dependent studenl may .P9rrow up to $3,00Q pet year per child,\ explained Massa. \This is a 'cash fl0\1 aid'; tuition payments are spread out over a longer period of time.\ A nine percent in- terest begins two months after the parent negotiates the loan. It must be paid irrunediately, but the parents are given more flexibility in helping finance their children's education. \If the interest on federal treasury notes drops below nine percent, the interest on the parent loan goes to eight per- cent automatically,\ Massa explained. Any student who has a question about his or her eligibility for any financial aid programs mentioned above should see Massa in the Financial Aid Office.

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, October 23, 1980 6port Women's So·ccer /Kicks Off' Wom·en's Update By GINA PERSICO The Union College Women'S Soccer team is off to its first season this year, and with it comes Margaret Simmons,. who is well on her way to becoming the team's most valua.ble player. The first three games of the season, although bringing defeat to Union, found Simmons the sole scoredor her team. An inflamed tissue in her foot prevented her from playing in the fourth and fifth games, but she came back two weeks later, to resume playing. Although the claims \I am not quite 100 percent yet,\ she feels op- timistic about the rest of the season. A sophomore at Union, Simmons has been \an avid soccer fan\ and player since her junior high days. Originally from Schenectady, Simmons spent her high school years at~ ·Fayetteville-Manlius High School in Syracuse, where she played on the Varsity Soccer team all four years. \Soccer is big in the Syracuse area,\ Simmons explains. \Our women's team in high school was section champ three out of the four years I was there.\ Although she was disap- pointed that Union did not have a soccer team during her fresh- man year, this fact did not keep Simmons from :playing her favorite sport; she and others played'games of their own. ''l was very excited when I heard there was to be a Women's Soccer club,\ says Simmons. It was mainly the work of Dedee 'Fisher, Vice President of the Women's Network, who began the formation of a w.omen's soccer team. Although it has one more year before it advances from a club sport .to a varsity team, Simmons says she sees a favorable future for the girls. \Once the team is more. organized, we'll hopefully attract good freshmen players and our upperclassmen will be more experienced :by then.\ Considering the club plays against teams that have been in existence for several years, . Simmons remarks, \I don't think we do that badly.\ According to the girls' coach,~ John McNamara, Simmons is \the most experienced player the team has,\ and he sees her as one of the strong points for Union for the next 2lh years. \She can do more with a soccer ball because she runs faster than anyone else on the team, · \McNamara says, \She is definitely an athlete.\ Simmons attributes her soccer skill to being an avid -In Practice For ••• Field Hockey Oct. 24--States Tennis Oct. 24--States Cross Country Oct. 25--Aibany Invitational Nov. 1--NY States 12:00 A Volleyball Oct. 24--Wheaton College Tourney Oct. 29--Aibany, Russell Sage Nov. 1--NIAC Tourney Nov. 4-- Russel I Sage, Oneonta- Nov. 14--NY States ,A 7:00 A A 7:00 H ENGINEERS· GO FULL SPEED Electric Boat is the world's foremost designer and builder of nuclear submarines- one of the great engineering challenges of this century. With a $3 billion backlog and long-term contracts, Electric Boat offers career opportunities in nearly every engineering discipline (including electrical, mechanical, civil, etc.), top pay and benefits, long-range stability and an unmatched lifestyle on the southern New England seacoast. US Ctltzenship requ~red- an Equal Opportumty Employer M&F. HC GENERAL DYNAMICS Electric Boat Division The Best Shipbuilding Team in America Electric Boat Division will be interviewing on campus October 30, 1980. Please contact the Placement Office for time and place. runner and bicyclist during off- season. She finds the college club to be more relaxed than what she was used to in high school; with the more relaxed atmosphere Simmons says,. ''I can think more on the field, and thinking is ~essential during a game.\ While Simmons enjoys soccer for the sport's sake, she also finds it to be a definite release from studies, which she says \can be very intense sometimes, and take up a lot of my time.\ The engineering major is quick to add, however, \I don't seem to miss too many parties on weekends, though.\ Once out of college, the 19• year-old athlete says she. knows her soccer enthusiasm'\will continue. \I would like to become involved in soccer organizations in the 'area I'm living in. \ she says. As for the immediate future, Simmons says she hopes to improve her playing, and to \always get the feeling that I'm playing the best I can.\ Although she has experienced what she claims is \the most painful injury I've ever had;\ she is excited to. have resumed playing, and is optimist_ic that her team will -wili. Margaret Simmons is 'back on her feet' once again. ' Field Hockey 10-13--Union 1, Vassar 0 10-15--RPI 6, Union 0 (Union B Team) l0-16--Union 4, Skidmore 2 (Record B-1-1} Volleyball 10-13--Un:ion 15, RP-1 8; Union 15, RPI 10, 10-13--Union 15, Siena 10; Union 15, Siena 11. 10-15--Aibany 16, Union 14; Union 15, Albany 13; Union 16, Al:bany 14; Albany 15, Union 8, Albany 15, Union 9. 10-18--Union 15, HVCC 11; Union 17, HVCC 15; Union 15, HVCC 6 (Record 9-3). Tennis 10-13--Union 3, Vassar 6 10-15-- RPI 6, Un·ion 1 10-17--Skidmore 7, Union 2 (Record 3-6)~ Soccer 10-13--Hartwick 12, Union o lQ-16--Hamilton 2, Union 0 (Record 0-7). Stickers Go To States By KELLY LIESE The Union C_oUege Field Hockey team ended its regular season last Thursday with a 4-2 victory over Skidmore College. This game gave the Dut~ chwomen a final-record of 8-1-1, enabling them to compete for the State championship at SUNY Cortland this weekend. Although the last home game of the season was played on a damp, gloomy autumn af- ternoon, the stalwart Union fans were anything but disappointed with the fast moving, skillful display of stickwork demon- strated by the Union eleven. The contest was even at half- time with both teams scoring two goals apiece. Union scored two more in the last half, to win the match. Outstanding of- fensive players were senior center link Buthaina Shukri, with sensational plays including a go,al scored off the rebound of her deflected shot; sophomore wing Emily Monosson, who slapped in a hard drive of her own for the final goal; and freshman wing Mary McGrath, who showed a lot of hustle, and outmaneuvered the Skidmore defense~ Worthy of defensive honors were sophomores Bernadette Albanese and Holly Howard, who with aggression and hustle, smothered any of skidmore's serious offensive threats. Unfortunately, next year Union will be missing the talents of seniors: tri~captains Nancy Colt, Debbie \Puffer\ Downey, and Buthaina Shukri; Ellen Heininger; and Lorin Neenan, all of whom con- tributed an integral part to Union's successful season. After finishing their season on a clean note, fourth-seeded Union takes to the road Thur- sday, Oct. 23, for a chance at the state championship, a chance they were denied last year due to a clerical error in· the roster. Center City Plaza 433 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. 12.305 (518) .393·0.317 Their first game is at 9::30 a.m., against fifth-seeded Potsdam State. The finals will be held Saturday, the 25th, at 9:30 for the championship. Coacll Marty Morrison feels the team has an excellent chance of winning; judging from their past per- formance, the Dutchwomen have the ability to take tlle state ~rown. The best of luck to you, Union! also in: Mon. - Sat. 10:00 A.M. - 5:30 P.M. Thurs. Eve..J:o 9:00P.M. Robinson Square 301 Hamilton Street Albany, N.Y. 12210 (518) .434-1709 Closed Sundays .) . . ·: - To1 By, Tom Co tramural basketbal replacing I now assis College. AI the summ1 Collette \\ University Joseph, an al Union 1 Collette ·Springfield Physical E an emph basketball Collette basketball captained t record. Bud wei, AthJ This w Athlete of Dreher, a player fn necticut. 1 outstandin Andy is al player. He the Union spring. HE basketball e a member 4 Soccer coac Dreher is athlete and athletes in j Dreher ~ weighs in Magee feet~ the fastest ( 15( Ne> Rar

OONOORDIENSIS, Qctober S3, 1980 Page 11 ~porte Tom Collette': Keeping Students Active By JIM MCGHEE Tom Collette is the new in- tramural director and J .V. basketball coach. He is replacing Bill Carmody, who is now assisting at Providence College. After spending part of the summer in South America, Collette was offered' jobs at University of South Maine, St. Joseph, and then landed the job at Union early in September. Collette graduated f:r;om 'Springfield last year with a Physical Education degree and an emphasis on CO'aching basketball. At Springfield, Collette played varsity basketball all four years, and captained the 1980 club to a 20.:7 record. In Collette's ·junior year at Springfield he won the Stietz Award, in honor of his desire and effort in basketball. Senior year he was picked for the Bunn Award,. reflecting leadershi,p qualities and ethical living. Since Tom has been at Union, he has organized the intramural program a great deal. With students helping to run different sports and employing stricter consequences for teams for- feiting, there seems to be greater participation and in• terest in intrarnu.ral activities. Torn is trying to 'build up the girl's activities program. A pro·gram is being developed where .girls can get toget~er one or two nights a week and play a sport they enjoy. Toxn re(erred to a gym class where the sports Athlete of the Week Andy Dreher Budweiser: Athlete· of the Week This week's Budweiser . Athlete of the Week is Andy Dreher, a sophomore soccer · player from Mystic, Con- necticut. Besides being an outstanding soccer player, Andy is also a. fine baseball player. He played left field for the Union baseball team last spring. He also excells in basketball even though he is not a member of the Union squad. Soccer coach Magee says· that Dreher is \an oustanding athlete and one of the finest athletes in the school.\ Dreher stands 6' 2\ and Weighs in at 190 and Coach Magee feels that besides being the fastest man on the team, Dreher's presence on the field alone is quite. intimidating. An~ is a midfielder, a position that is half offensive and half defensive, and he still has a total of five goals as well as five assists. Dreher had a fine week last week, receiving player of the game in the Dutchmen's 6·1 win over Trinity. In past weeks, he has won player of the game against RPI, Albany · and Binghamton and Coach Magee says that Dreher, \is the player of the week almost any week.\ The son of a minister and one of seven children, Dreher is a economics major and a brother at Sigma Chi. Go Young Restaura_n.t Chinese food Take Out \ 1501 Maxon Rd. 382-8977 Next to Ramada Inn would change . . Tom Stated, \We are willing to set up activities to get girls active during the week.\ Ideally, he would like to keep students active daily throughout the week. Tom likes Union because \It's a small school wltb good people, and the kids are nice.\ He feels 'it's toe bad that students don't \- ma·ke time to relieve the ~ academic pressure by spending ·a; an hour a day playing a sport ..J because, \it makes you more a:i alert and you feel better about ~ - yourself.\ V) Tom is interested in any £ questions students have con- 0 cerning activities and programs o .c: and encourages everyone to get a.. involved in an important aspect of sthoel sports. Intramural Director Tom Collette Union vs. WiUiams: Football ·Preview By DOUG SILVERSTEIN Towards the end of the 1975- 1 1976 football season, a writer for Concordiensis reflected,on a 1-7 season under new head coach Tom Cahill by ·stating that it seemed as if Union needed more than just a quality coach to emerge from the dreads of defeat. People may claim \deja vu\ with the omens of a losing season under new head coach Joe Wirth but the contrast is obvious. This is a different group of athletes coached under a totally different philosophy. In addition, from all iiJdications, the Dutchmen seem to be more spirited than previous years. The word not used so far but seemingly applicable is op- timism. However, Union's .1-3 football record still lends itself to criticism and therefore this weeks game against the Williams Ephs carries great significance. . Statistically, one cannot find . any reason to justify the poor Dutchmen record. Union's top rushers;· Huttner, Marino, McMorrow, and Anderson all support averages of over 4 yards per carry. In addition, Junior quarterback Dana Johnston has completed 55.8 percent of his passes for an average of over 8 yards per pass, compared to last years 31.1 percent completion rating for a mere 4 yards per pass. Henry Wright, the split end who caught 22 passes in all of 1979, has already caught 15. Tight end Marc Marro has ac- cumulated six receptions while supplying adequate blocking. Defensively, the Dutchmen have lived up to all ex- pectations, let alone the Trinity disaster. Tackle Mark Palomba, linebackers Jenkins and Audino, and defensive back Scotto have all been out- standing. Two problems have caused the poor record. One is the Dutchmen's inability to score during the second and third periods, and the other is the over reliance on a few players to carry the rest of the team. These are the problems that the Dutchmen must attend to this weekend when they travel to Williams College. The Ephs are 2-2-1, a rather disapp9inting record for a fine quality team. Quarterback John Lawler has completed only 40 percent of his p~sses for a meager average per pass, and one indication of his problems this year is the fact that he has thrown more interceptions than touchdown passes. He is supported by fullback Bill Novicki and halfback Jay Wheatley, the two leading rushers for the Ephs. Since they beat Rochester early in the season, Williams has not been able to sustain the con- sistent drives that they need to control the tempo of the games. Two of their previous losses, have been to Division Three standouts Trinity and Tufts. The leading receiver is Micah Taylor who has snagged eleven passes for a sixteen yard average, and has been on the receiving end of the two Lawler TD passes. The Ephs may very well proceed to pry into the weak Union secondary as did RPI and Trinity. Only John Scotto, the free safety, has shown any .consistency in the defensive backfield, although one could cite the inability of the defensive line to pressure the opposing quarterback as part of the reason for the poor per- formances. The defensive line, lead by v·eteran Mark Palomba, has held its own against the run, but the absence of nose guard Weldon Turner reveals itself each week. Once again, the Dutclnnen must contain ·the running game of Williams and force the often inaccurate Lawler to the air. If the line could sustain a formidable rush, linebackers Jenkin and Audino will he more free to key on the backfield instead of · simply covering for other players. Lees not forget one thing. The defense as a whole has played well and simply needs more time and familiarity with each other. Tbe Union offense, as has tieen said, statistically gives little indication to bE!' faltering, however, the points have not yet been tallying on the board as much as Coach Wirth expects, or prefers. The Dutchmen have failed to score at all during the second and third periods of any game this .season. This in ad- dition to the jolting injury that quarterback Dana Johnston suffered last weekend leave.s the potency of the offense in serious doubt. However, not . mariy people can remember when Union had so many talented running backs: on one team. If Johnston cannot 'play, the job will go to sopllom.ore Steve Nowak, who has shown the ability in the past to perbrm well. Billy Hutner continues to nag opposing defenses, IJut seems to be losing hls ef- fectiveness as teams begin ·to key on the pesty running back. His services may be better used, along with the other three, in the form of swing or screen passes out of the backfield. So far, the Union offense has been less than complex, and this nay be one reason for the inability to score points despite adequate statistics. Most passes have been directed to the terrific Henry Wright, however, tllis cannot continue if Uni()n EX- pects to confuse the opponent, let alone keep them honest. 'L'he agile offensive line, ancllor-ed by veteran Bill Egan, has provided ample pass protEction ibut has not seen much activity setting up and executing screen plays. The talent is there, the coaching is there, but it seens as if it may take a while for the two to jell completely. Thish:.ad to be expected and is one <Jf the pains of a young football sqtLad under a new coaching staff. 'Mie best defensive player on the Ephs is defensive back Erhm Benedict, who already has three interceptions. His presence may force Union to keep tile hall on the ground, and when fon~.ed to the a~r. deploying short screens and outs. This is where tight end Marc Marro must excel. He must continti€ to catch the short passes up the middle, something he SllC· cessfully did in all games ~u! the Trinity game. In short,. tile Dutchmen 'must control tile tempo of the game, not let it control them. They may 'he better off \playing co11· servatively, allowing Wrigllt to elude the double coverage and split the outstanding Williams secondary. As cliche as it may be,. tl:lis game is more than just a gam:e. The Dutchmen must begin to shed the losing tradition that haunts the players, coaches, and fans. The only resemblance that this team has to Cahill's is the fact that they play on Saturdays, otherwise, they're in a whole new quarter. AlllJnion must do to prove it, not necessarily to the fans or be coaching staff, but to thein· ,selves.

Page 12 OONCORDIEN.SIS, October B9, 1980 &port Soccer Wins Pair By MIKE CANNING Sheridan pounded in two goals, team's recent performance. \I assisted by Dreher and Hans · am pleased with the - team's Bukow. Freshman · Chris . play,\ he said. \Not only Morrow also added a goal, the because we are scoring but first of his young career. because we are playing well as The Dutchmen defense reJected any scoring attempts by the Merchant Marines. Goalies Goerge Romas and Mike Huckrow could have enjoyed a full seven course meal without being interrupted by King's Point's inoffensive offense. Only a screened shot past Romas prevented a shutout. a unit. The whole team is playing well together.\ U.nion must keep up· this high calibre type of play if ther are to make the national post season tour- nament. Currently ranked in the top ten in New York State, the team must win its next four games to merit consideration as one of the four New York schools selected for the NCAA tournament. Sports Happ-ening Oct. 23~ct •. 2·9 . . Va·rsity Football Oct. 25 at Williams Varsity Soccer Oct. 25 at St. lawrence Oct. 28 at Oneonta JV Football Oct. 29 at RPI JV Soccer Oct. 25 vs. Siena Cross Country Oct. 25 at Albany Union swept a pair of soccer games this week by scores of6-1 against King; s Point and Trinity College. Coming off a four goal outburst last week against RPI, the Dutchmen scoring machine continued to rqll in high gear. The last th~ee games have been ones of · pure offensive devastation as Unior;t has out- scored its opponents 16-2, outshot them 75-18, and in general, simply demoHshed them. In running its season goal total to 27, the Dutchmen have already surpassed last year's total of 23 with five games still left to play. Union claimed dominance from the opening minutes of the game against King's Point on Wednesday. With a thundering barrage of scoring shots, the Dutchmen sunk the Merchant Marines with relative ease. Initiating the assault was junior Tim Agar. The powerful for- ward with good speed and a hard shot took a pass from Ben Levitan and slammed the ball into the goal. The onslaught continued as Andy Dreher and Mike Lewis added first half goals, giving the Dutchmen a 3- 0 lead. The second half con- tinued in\ the same mold as Union continued their attack on the King's Point goal. Dave Saturday's game against Trinity was a virtualreplieation oftJ:leKing's Point game. When it rains it pours and as the rain fell on Garis Field, Union powered in six goals past a flustered Trinity goalkeeper. Andy Dreher produced two goals to pace the Union attack. Midfielder Brian Shea scored his first career · gaal and later assisted on Chris Morrow's second goal of the season. Rounding out the scoring were Mike Lewis and Dave Sheridan. Sheridan leads Union in goals for the season with six and followed closely by Andy Dreher with five goal~. Gridders Downed Coach Bob Magee has been obYiously pleased with his By JA ¥MCDERMOTT This past Saturday the Union College foot ball team ran into a stubborn opponent in the person of Trinity College. Trinity, coming off a disappointing defeat at the hands of Colby a week earlier, proved to be too much for the Dutchmen to handle as the Bantams emerged 41-7 victors. The Dutchmen, who had been very impressive up until Saturday, despite their 1-2 ledger, started the game where X-Country Wins Two The Union cross-country team turned in a pair of banner performances last week, mauling Middlebury 16-44 on W1!dnesday and nipping rival RPI on Saturday, 26-30. The Middlebury meet, in terms of overall team per- formance, was perhaps the team's finest performance to date. The Dutchmen's third through seventh runners turned in their best times of the year, with only 60 seconds separating the finish of the first six run- ners. . Union runners Ed Arnheiter and Adam Licht tied for first in 26:38 with team captain Jack Connor third in 26:48. Denny Contois added a fourth place finish in 27:03, with Joe Londa completing the romp with a sixth placefinishin 27:22. Rounding out the varsity were Duncan MacKenzie, seventh in 27:38, and Dave Dellehunt, tenth, in 28: 23. Contrasting the easy win over Middlebury was a tooth and nail struggle with RPI. The Engineers are regarded by. many observers as a \jinx team\ for Union; the Dutchmen consistently beat RPI in invitationals only to be upset in the annual dual meet. But the \Troylites\ seven year win ) ... Q. > <( > ..c 0 0 & string appeared in danger after Union beat them by 23 in the Capital District meet two weeks ago. Barely one mile into the race, Union's chances of winning dimmed considerably when Jack Connor, running in third place, was pushed and fell into a course marker. By the time he had regained his footing he had faded to 13th and RPI held five of the first seven positions. At the three mile mark, Union's talented duo of Ed Arnheiter and Adam Licht moved into the lead and ap- peared headed for an easy one- two finish, but RPI's overall depth seemed to have assured them the win. With less than 400 yards to go, RPI still had a slight lead. Race observer Elissa Sanchez, standing at the 4% mile mark, said, \From where I was standing, RPI had a slight lead. On my card, I had the meet scored 27-28 in favor of RPL'' But over the last quarter mile the meet took a strange turn. Union runners Licht and Arnheiter finished first and second, with RPI runners ap- parently assured of the third and fourth positions. But at the last entrance Mark Zaffuts, RPI's second runner, missed the gate a.o.d headed off the course down Nott Street as Union's Denny Contois moved to finish fourth in 27:03. Jack Connor came back to finish eighth, passing an RPI runner in the final 200 yards, with Joe Londa holding onto eleventh to complete the scoring. RPI coach John Hudson initially protested the race because Contois had .failed to warn his runner after he ran off in the wrong direction. After being reminded that his runners had been specifically warned about the entrance, Hudson removed his protest. Overlooked in the controversy were the fine performances of Licht and Arnheiter. Licht covered the five mile course in a brisk 25:43 with Arnheiter adding a 26:03. Both times rank among the ten fastest times ever turned in on the course afid mark both as state meet threats. After the race, the team took a victory lap around campus and was interviewed by radio WG Y. The Dutchmen, now 4-4 on the year, participate in the Albany Invitational this Saturday. they had left off. On the third play of the game Dutchmen Quarterback Dana Johnston threw a pass across the middle to senior end Henry Wright. Wright continued upfield until the Trinity secondary appeared to have him stopped, but ·a lateral to trailing frosh running back Bill Butner put Union ahead 7..() as Hutner scampered 30 yards into the end zone un- periled. Only mi.nuteslater Union was 28-7. The afternoon was not a very impressive one for Union defense as the Trinity rushing attack slashed through the Dutchmen defense for over 200 yards. . Trinity held ~n and scored twice more to ensure their victory. After the game, Dana Johnston summed -up the af· ternoon event as such, \They capitalized on our errors and big plans and we didn't.\ Johnston suffered an injury Coach Wirth looks on again knocking on the door. The Dutchmen had driven to the Trinity 10 yard line only to be . foiled by penalties and a fierce Trinity defense. After this point, Trinity took over, gaining momentum. The Bantams scored three times in the second quarter taking a 21-7 lead at halftime. The second half began with Trinity once again maintaining the momentum. The Bantams blocked a Dutchmen punt on the Union 15 yard line, and later marched it in to up the score to early in the game and will be out for a week. His absence was sorely missed S!lturday as the Union offense was unable to mount a suitable attack after the first quarter. Union will now embark on the toughest part of their season, facing such foes as Middlebury, Williams and Rochester. The big question is will the Dut- chmen be ready for Williams this Saturday? Defensive nose guard Mark Palomba's · reply was, \This one's behind us now and we will be ready for Williams next week.\ Union students with ID will be admitted to Williams Football Game for $2 f • t: () . .. ... c :s A Inde.p~ candidat wonaml in a stra last Thu Concordi Runnir against Carter ~ candida AndersOJ the vote. percent Reagan This o similar 1 conducte conjung elections received Catter.r• Reagan· Howe' supporte did not, i much en Many, the inde pear on t for the Tuesday. State, m chance G election public Andetso1 percent 1 Ander~ high mat mtelliger dictates. received general < pair w •·preside White H1 Thougl Maz:z NE By~ When College· the.re i~ mediat< That is i. director Angel1 1976 has to Dean Kellett, missed 1 Novemt by the a his de presentl and m; replace director The 1 Nov. 10 t;reat ell progtar 1\ngelo'l his pure rlowntov will req Althoug 1 this new <~greed Food S~ days a \ of the sc Kellett, experie1 time.\ Kelle1 :-~reas of been. m years b' director

ms a the · 200 and af- and be the to fter the for • October 30, 1980 Volume 110, Number 7 • Anders~n Wins Campus Poll Independent .presidential candidate John 13. Anderson won a majority of the votes cast in a straw poll conducted here last Thursday and Friday by Collcordiensis. Running in a three-way race against President Jimmy Carter and Republican Party_ candidate Ronald Reagan, Anderson re-ceived 65 percent of the vote. Carter finished with 22 percent of the votes, and Reagan received 13 percent. This order of finish is very similar to that of a straw poll conducted here last spring, in conjun~tion with student elections. In that pollt Anderson received 69 percent of the vote, Carter .received 19 percent and Reagan polled 12. H<>wever, students who supported Anderson last week did not, in many cases, express much enthusiasm. Many of those who voted for the independent, who wi!l ap- pear on the Liberal Party's line for the general election next Tuesday, Nov. 4, in New York State, notes that he has little chance of winning the national election. ~ (Recent national public opinion polls show Anderson drawing . about 10 percent of the vote.) • Anderson did, however, draw high marks for being. tbe most mtelligent of the three can- didates. His wife, Keke, also received similar praise, and the general consensus was that the pair would be the most '·presidential,\in occupying the White House. Though he is a ten-term RepU:blici:uJ Congressman from Illinois, Anderson appeared to draw little of his support as a result of his past performance or the policies he and his nm- ning mate, former Wisconsin Governor Patrick Lucey, a Democrat, have proposed ~in this campaign. · . Primarily, Anderson sup- porters here said that .their support is attributable to their dissatisfaction with the two major party candidates. Those participants in the straw poll who did support Carter and Reagan also often did so with little enthusiasm. \I held .m,y nose and voted for Ca1·ter ,\ said one. Another Carter supporter said that he had turned to the Democrat because he thought Ronald Reagan's economic policies weren't sound. \Reagan said that he'll reduce unemployment by controlling inflation. From what I've learned in Economics 10 (elementary macroeco.mmics) that's not the way it works.\ In general, Reagan was faulted for a basic lack of in- telligence and inability to gra$p issues. Some of those who did vote .for him expressed their disappointment with Carter's record, especially in foreign affairs. · · \Russia's been pusning us around,\ said one Reagan voter. \And we've been letting them. We've got to be prepared militarily to strike back. With Reagan, we will.\ A second question in the poll removed Anderson from the Mazzone to Leave in November ballot, forcing participants to choose between Carter and Reagan .. When this was done, 'Carter received 71 percent of the vote and Reagan 29 percent. However, the number of votes registered in this contest, 265, . was substantially lower than in the three-way race, where 297 votes we1·e recorded. This drop- off is traceable to voters' not pulling a lever in this contest - . either because they believed Student Government: they could. not support one of these candidates, er because they did not see the second ballot line. Several voters complained that minor partY candidates, such as Libertarian candidate Ed Clark, were not iJlduded on the ballot here, and indicated --that because of that, they didn't vote in either the three-way or two-way race. A third par:_t of the poll asked participants if they planned to vote or already have voted by absentee ballot in the general election. Eighty-three percent of those who answered the question said they did or would, while 17 percent said they did not expect to vote. In all, 323 undergraduate students, slightly more than 15 percent of Union's enrollment, took part in the poll . How It Works Here By SCOTT ADAMS 'Fhe purpose of the Student ·· Forum, besides overseeing the various clubs and activities, is to hear students' complaints, suggestions, and various opinions, and to be the students' voice, according to Dave 0 'Connor, President of the Forum. The Forum and its two ad- vising committees, the Com- mittee on Committees (COC) and the Finance Committee rFC), are designed to oversee the expenditures of ap- proximately $200;000 per year on the 46, and ever increasing, clubs and activities. \As of now, only ten of over 40 clvbs and activities have constitutions approved by the - Forum,\ explained Cathy Johnson, vice president of administration for Student Forum, and Chairwoman of COC. However, the COC plans to go through the constitutions of all the clubs and activities this yea1·, and eventually have recommendations for the Forum to approve or disap- prove each constitution. The major purpose of the COC, according to JDhnson, is to appoint students to government positions other than elected <;mes. The COC is also respon- sible for making sure the people appointed do their jobs and that the . clubs and activities are active and achieve the goals of their constitutions. The Forum-a body of 16, the president, two vice presidents, three representatives from each of the upper classes, a representative from the Intertraternity Council, a student from the Academic Affairs Council, the Senior and Junior Trustees-will be ex- _ panding to 18 in the winter with the addition of two freshmen representatives to be elected. Said O'Connor of the new system, \There is Il).ore direction now. Student representation has been ex- panded. This allows for more of a variety of representation.\ New Food Director .Na-lned. The FC makes t·ecom- mendations to the Forum on the approval of funding for. the different clubs and activities. The FC. consists of seven members: the vice president of finance for the Student Forum; three class representatives ( one from each upper class) ; and three members from the student body, appointed by COC. This year, according to Jim Fisher, vice president of finance, the FC is working to set up a system of guidelines to af>sure some continuity in budgeting of the different groups. The FC is responsible for keeping \close tabs\ on the groups and \making sure they stay within the guidelines,'' said Fisher. The Forwn is a tool for the improvement of Union by the students. Explained O'Connor; \We need suggestions.\ Some projects O'Connor would like to work on include improving alumni-student relations; more interaction between Union and the town of Schenectady; and increasing Union's ties with Union University. O'Connor feels students should be con- cerned about and aware of the possibility of interaction with Union University, as it may result in a greater availability of facilities and the use of Union's facilities by others. By SUE BLOOMBERG When speaking of the Union College Food Service Program, there is one person who im- mediately · comes to mind. That is Angelo Mazzone, acting director of food service. Angelo's work at Union since 1976 has been superb, according to Dean of Students, Robert H. Kellett, and will be greatly missed with his resignation this November. It has been decided by the administration that upon his departure, Jan Grey, presently the assistant director and manager of West, will replace Angelo as ~citing director. The resignation, effective Nov. 10, will definitely bring ~reat change to the food service program. The reason for Angelo's resignation this fall is his purchase of a restaurant in rlowntown Schenectady, which will t·equire his full attention. Although he will be busy with this new investment, Angelo has <~greed to be a consultant to Food Services at Union a few days a week, for the remainder of the school year. According to Kellett, \The benefit of his experience is necessary at this time.\ ..__, Kellett emphasized many nreas of improvement that have been, made over the past few Years by Angelo; as the acting director of food services. For example, the Dutch Hollow Pub was opened under his super- vision in 1976. Since that time, he has been aole to expand the Pub's business to the point where it exceeded $1, million last year. \Through business and food skills, Angelo has been able to cancel outside contracts and run the whole thing hlmself,\ said Kellett. These skills have allowed Angelo to take over food services at Hale,. West and the Rathskellar, which were all previously under contract. For 17 years, the entire food service was under the Saga Contract. As a result ·of a student-faculty committee, which revealed dissatisfaction, the Saga Contract was can- celled at the end of the 1977-78 school year. In the place of the eontract, the Pub, Skellar and Hale were all taken over by the school. West's Contract was given to the RSVP food servic~ in hopes that this would be an improvement over the Saga food service. A survey in 1978 revealed that the RSVP food service was poor. Consequen-tly, last year, the RSVP contract was cancelled, and Angelo and the Union College Food Service decided to take over all food services at Union. Dean Kellett, in reference to Angelo's ability, said, \What has been done ·to this school's food servir.e is a credit to his lead.ers~ip. Directing food service 1s a seven-day-a-week job and Angelo has performed well. He is highly competent and has made enormous con- tributions to the school.\ The pizza pub and the catering service now provided are in- novations made by-Angelo in the past few years. ~ .. Jan Grey, who came to Union in 1978 to run Hale House, will replace Angelo as the acting director of food service, for at least the remainder of the year. Another major change will be the employment of Richard Williams, or \Piedmont as the acting director of West. Ms. Grey was chosen on the basis of her professionalism and hard work in food services over the past few years. The job of acting director, which requires managerial skills, will be quite different from her previous job as assistant director and manager of West. While the job ~... will be substantially different, ~ Kellett stated, \I have a lot of Vl confidence in Jan's abilities.\ <( Angelo· Mazzone will be 't:l greatly missed at Union. He has ~ created an operation with 42 -5 full-time employees and 150 a::: student employees and has .5 greatly enhanced the food 0 service program at Union. As o Kellett expressed, \Angelo has tf supplied Union with the greatest single contribution between 1976 and 1980.\ .,~.·· ,., ./' Forum meeting are held every Monday at 7:30 p.m. in Carnegie. usually in Strauss Lounge, otherwise on the fourth floor. Student Forum members meet

. '· Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, October 30, 1980 --Editorial-- . 15· Percent After last week's presidential poll run by the Coucordiensis, it appears that the political opinions and voting patterns on campus are quite predictable. Political involvement among students, on the other hand, seems to vary greatly. The tabulated results we received from our poll were somewhat expected. There were two ballots to be case and one question to be answered. John An· derson won on the main ballot with 192 votes as compared to Jimmy Carter's 65 and Ronald Reagan's 40. The second ballot, which considered! only Carter and Reagan, showed Carter over Reagan 187 to 78 votes. Lastly, the question asked if the person was planning to vote in this year's~lection. 225 out of the 323 people who voted said that they were. 45 said no. (See related stery on Page 1..) These results closely parallel those of a similar poll taken by Concordiensis last spring. Most students would still rather see Anderson in office for the next four years. Our results also show that most of us would rather see Carter in a second term than Reagan in a first. Our purpose was to show the main preference and then a second one between the two strongest candidates. Many students wished to see a full presidential ballot. A few reminded us that we were living under a two-party system, but there are other alternatives. Several among this group refused to vote at ali or just voted in answer to our first question. A few students refused to vote on the general premise that they wouldn't be voting in the November election. They stressed that this was a rational decision made by informed citizens. You might have noticed, however, that 323 people is only about 15 percent of the Union undergraduate population. The rest of the students obviously just didn't have the time or couldn't be bothered to vote. Many hurried by the booth promising to come back. (They never did.) Some laughed and others just walked by. One student refused to answer anything other than \No!\ to anything we asked about his reason for not voting. It is embarrassing that a majority of the students here can't take the time to vote. Part of the reason mayverywellhave been that some didn't know about the poll. That still leaves a large percentage of the community who just couldn't take the time. The only question left is Whether or not these people will take the time on Nov. 4. We hope that they will. Forum Cuts Budgets 10%. Subscribe to CONCORD I ENS IS Parents, Alumni, Friends $ 10 ya-iu Clip the coupon below and return to Concordiensis, -·r Box 2517, Union ~ollege, Schenectady, NY 12308 --------------------------------------------- Name .............................................................................................................................. . I I l ~::~~:~.:·.·:.:~.·.·::::::::~::::::~~:::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::·~;~;~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.··~i-~ .............................. ! By BRUCE KAPLAN At the Monday night meeting of the Student Forum, the budgetary proposals of the Finance Committee were passed unanimously. Voting in closed session, the Club, Organization and Committee appropriations for this school year were approved with an across-the-board of 10 percent. According to Finance Committee member Mark Zukowski, this reduction, in addition to the adjustments already built into the various budget requests, reflected the desire of the Finance Com- I I ---------.---------------------------------~-- mittee and the ·Forum to !'promote fiscal austerity and responsibility.'' Ul1lon ~ . .. concoroi~oo•o Editors-in-Chief Jim Davis, Julie Isgro NewsEditor GaleVanore Features Editors Jwti.Chervenak, FredFen~tier Arts Editors Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Photo Editor Richard A. Sher Sports Editors · Bill Curtin, Rich Hope Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowicz Sports Phto Editor Steve Lerner Layout Editor Rachel I. Mandel Business Manager Lawrence C. Leavitt Advertising Manager . Jeff Scardino Subscriptions Editor Ellen Be1rger Calendar Editor Maria Manfredonia ~taff Claire Burchill, Charis Richards :Photo Staff Kent Avery, Michael J~ Elkins, Charis Richards CONCORDmNSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-7151. Entered in tile Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONOORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. ' The overall amount of budget allocations totalling $199,756 of Student Activity Funds, was cut to an amount of $179,966 reflecting a 10 percent cut. Elaborating, Zukowski said, \The budgets in the past, and even the current proposed budget, had really gotten out of hand. Various organizations were .requesting monies far in excess of their needs, and contribution . to the campus community. We adjusted the budgets in Committee to put them in a more realistic framework, and further proposed the 10 percent reduction as being beneficial. to the student body at large. · The budget cuts, no doubt ' refreshing to some of the members of the campus community who were annoyed at the often gross abuse of student funding, are, moreover, reflective of the general sen- timent of the country. \After all,\ Zukowski pondered, \This is the era of Pil'oposition 13.\ As of Oct. 27, the Student following clubs, organizations, Forum Government has ap- and committees: proved the budgets f()r the Clubs Amount Finance Comm. 10 Percent Requested Recommendation Cut Figure Amnesty International $ 755 Big Brothers-Big Sisters 4,025 Biology Club 785 Black & Latin All. 14,800 Cabaret 3,064 Ceteris Paribus 2,800 Cheerleaders 1,555 Chemistry Club 225 Chinese Student Assoc. 1,591 Circle K Club 798 Coffeehouse 3,980 Concert Committee 29,380 Concordiensis 16,835 Curling Club 341 Dance Club 8,178 Electronic Music Club 75 ·Fencing Club 826 Film Committee 12,260 Frisbee Club 258 Garnet 10,108 Idol Magazine 8,555 International Relations 5,232 Jazz Ensemble 3,016 Men's Glee Club 19,100 Outing Club 3, 738 Rugby Club 1,711 Philomathean Society 985 Photography Club 1,427 Political Forum 2,420 Pre-Health Society 750 Scuba Club 5,328 Ski Club-Ski Team 2,285 Social Committee 22,450 Speaker's Forum 21,320 Stone Boat Club 885 Student Forum 665. Union Views 3;000' When Diplomacy Fails 153 Women's Glee Club 7,000 Women's Network 4,170 WRUC 26,903 W2UC (Amateur Radio Club) 645 Volleyball Club 499 Yacht Racing Assoc. 2,005 .'700 3,753 785 3,080 3,064 750 565 195 1,261 765 3,815 24,530 11,035 342 3,537 75 760 12,260 258 8,711 6,985 4,612 2,856 15,100 2,997 2,709 945 1,427 2,120 600 3,410 2,285 16,600 21,320 885 665 3,000 143 6,200 2,745 18,981 645 499 1,787 $ 199,756 630 3,377 706 2,772 2,757 675 508 175 1,134 688 3,433 22,077 9,931 306 3,183 67 684 11,034 232 7,840 6,286 4,150 2,570 13,590 2,697 2,438 850 1,284 1,908 540 3,069 2,056 14,940 19,188 796 598 2,700 128 5,580 2,470 17,082 580 449 1,603 . Pr 1 By 0 apf' Eitl Car poli for wou bit Rea toot Caf'l fillil aga w beer deal choi TUrJ fron of 1! vote the , drea sem Pre~ c E WA .Jimr: Reag as so candi segm to big to m• Aln belt-! unive as ne Iong-1 the e educ~ At candi quiet are t natio1 si tie~ spoke of a1 sidizi Jot A ByCl Visi Wir Unit~ Andel tn.ajol have futuri Om Luce~ of sp fronti Anotl impa• howE bepa first Peop camp a star be h futurc Pta all th: atten consi: to c propo Nevel been -each impac the b1 packll ThE paign basic ex ere. a stat ter~IU3

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, October 30~ 1980 --Editorial-- 15 Percent After last week's presidential poll run by the C'oncordiensis, it appears that the political opinions and voting patterns on campus are quite predictable. Political involvement among students, on the other hand, seems to vary greatly. The tabulated results we received from our poll were somewhat expected. There were two ballots to b(• case and one question to be answered. John An- derson won on the main ballot with 192 votes as compared to Jimmy Carter's 63 and Ronald Reagan's 40. The second ballot, which considered only Carter and Reagan, showed Carter over Reagan 187 to 78 \'Otes. Lastly, the question as]{ed if the person was planning to vote in this year's ~lection. 225 out of the :~23 people who voted said that they were. 45 said no. ( See related story on Page 1. l These results closely parallel those of a similar poll taken by Concordiensis last spring. Most students would still rather see Anderson in office for the next four years. Our results also show that most of us would rather see Carter in a second term than Reagan in a first. Our purpose was to show the main preference and then a second one between the two strongest candidates. Many students wished to see a full presidential ballot. A few reminded us that we were living tmder a two-party system, but there are other alternatives. Several among this group refused to vote at all or just voted in answer to our first question. A few students refused to vote on the general premise that they wouldn't be voting in the November election. They stressed that this was a rational decision made by informed citizens. You might have noticed, however, that 323 people is only about 15 percent of the Union undergraduate population. The rest of the students obviously just didn't have the time or couldn't be bothered to vote. Many hurried by the booth promising to come back. (They never did.) Some laughed and others just walked by. One student refused to answer anything other than \No!\ to anything we asked about his reason for not voting. It is embarrassing that a majority of the students here can't take the time to vote. Part of the reason may very well have been that some didn't know about the poll. That still leaves a large percentage of the community who just couldn't take the time. The only question left is whether or not these people will take the time on Nov. 4. We hope thattheywill. Subscribe to I I CONCORDIENSIS Parents, Alumni, Friends $ 10 y......L. Clip the coupon below and return to Concordiensis, \'-•r Box 2517, Union ~ollege, Schenectady, NY 12308 --------------------------------------------- Name ............................................................................................................... . : Street ................................................................................. ·-······--·············· ................... . 1 I I I I : City ............................................................... State ............................ Zip .. ............ I I '---------.---------------------------------~~ 'll1lon colLar • • concol'Oien615 Editors-in-Chief .Jim Davis, Julie Isgro News Editor Gale Vanore Features Editors JudLChervenak, Fred Fen~tier Arts Editors Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Photo Editor Richard A. Sher Sports Editors · Bill Cw'tin, Rich Hope Women's Sports Editor Cory Lewkowicz Sports Phto Editor Steve Lerner Layout Editor Rachel I. Mandel Business Manager Lawrence C. Leavitt Advertising Manager Jeff Scardino Subscriptions Editor Ellen Berger Calendar Editor Maria Manfredonia ~taff Claire Burchill, Charis Richards Photo Staff Kent Avery, Michael J. Elkins, Charis Richards CONCORDIENSIS is published every ThW'sday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Serv~ce. ttl Nightclub This Saturday L . . : :, :- .. ·. ' .. etters yom money's. WQrth. \Tnat is had no. official clu? Qr why the Social Committee organization to spc>nsor hun, he exists. · t()Ok it upon himself to run the We have spent $3,000 to race unofficially for Union provide this night of en· · College. . To all Union College students: tertainment for you. We do not Wearing .a garnet Un~on WHA 'f DO YOU wANT??? enjoy begging students to corne College T-shirt t~at I gave hlm, · . · · · and have a good time at a very. Rudy finished ln the upp¢r We on the Soctal Comrmttee feel entertaining social event ... rf UJ:qt>O fini~hers in the over~2fi.. that we have extended ~mr ~st_ these functions are not af the mile race. On behalf of the efforts to p~esent a spectal mght type that you want, we would College, I w~uld H~e to of entertamment. for y~u. On like to lmow. All suggestions are congratulate Rudy Dubm, my S?turday, N~v. 1, there ~Ill be a welcome and wanted (these can dad, for running in the New mght~lub m Al~mm Gy.m be left with Mrs. Marra in York Marathon. Needless to featurm& the amazmg hypnotist Student Activities). And if this say, I am very proud of him. John Koltsch, who has been o~ sounds like a good timer() you, Johnny Carson, as well as please come to Carnegte a11d locally popular ?and--Act n.r. buy your tickets now. They play a vanety of :nusw Sincerely, Sincerely, Nevin Dubin '31 that you can dance to. T1<:kets CindHiurley are on~y $3-this includes one Betty Dwoskin Vandalism at free drmk, popcorn, cheese and Social Committee Chairmen crac~et·s,. gard~n vegetabl.es Lorraine Marra Homecoming and dtp, dried frmt and nut m1x, plus au this great en~ Marathoner tertainment! Prinks are only 50 . J d To the Editors: cents,which is what it costs us Congratu ate · tn make them. It sounded like a In what was otherwise a tremendously successful · Homecoming Weekend program, two events occurred which should be of concern to all of us. Sometime Friday night,. Lamont House was broken into and the new \Welcome Alumni'; banner was stolen. On Saturday night, serious damage was done t() the tent on Lamong House lawn. pretty good deal to us. To the Editors, However, ticket sales have been awful, even though they have been on sale for a week. Also, the date was given to central planning last spring., hut a few fraternities decided to compete with , us anyway on ~·Saturday. This past weekend there was only one fraternity party, while on the Saturday of the nightclub there will be two. We all have heard th€ com~ plaints that there is nothing different to Q.o except to go to the fraternity parties or the Skellar or the Pub. Not that we are knocking fraternity parties at all. They provide the majority of the social life on campus at no expense to the students. But every student here pays a $99 activities fee and we would like to see you get The 1980 New York City Marathon was held this past Sunday. Over 14,000 lunatics participated this year in chilly weather. The majority of· them finished; one of these finishers happened to be my father-. Rudy started training: .for \New Yotk't about five months ago. During training he ran frnm50to60 miles per week. He went through all the . pre· marathon rituals, including an all-protein diet, and then car· bohydr.ate }(lading, the week before the race. Rudy finished with a time of 4 hours, 20 minutes-2.0 minutes le$5 than the time of his first marath()n. Next year he plans to break tbe 4-hour mark. Rudy turned -46 in July. Be told me that sin&e be The replacement of the banner-is $100 ana the monetary damage to the-tent is in excess of $3;500. , Anyone furnishing information on these two acts which leads to the apprehension and conviction of the person or persDns responsible will be entitled to r~ceive a reward of up to $100 from the Alumni Council. Harrison G. Demgen '47 Secretary Forum Cuts Budgets 10% . By BRUCE KAPLAN At the Monday night meeting of the Student Forum, the budgetary proposals of the Finance Committee were passed unanimously. Voting in closed session, the Club, Organization and Committee appropriations for this school year were approved with an across-the-board of 10 percent. According to Finance Committee member Mark Zukowski, this reduction, in addition to the adjustments already built into the various budget requests, reflected the desire of the Finance Com~ mittee and the Forum to \promote fiscal austerity and responsibility.\ The overall amount of budget allocations totalling $199,756 of Student Activity Funds, was cut to an amount of $179,966 reflecting a 10 percent cut. Elaborating, Zukowski said, \The budgets in the past, and even the current proposed budget, had really gotten out of hand. Various organizations were requesting monies far in excess of their needs, and contribution to the campus community. We adjusted the budgets in Committee to put them in a more realistic framework, and further proposed the 10 percent reduction as being beneficiat to the student body at large. The budget cuts, no doubt refreshing to some of the members of the campus community who were annoyed at the often gross abuse of student funding, are, moreover, reflective of the general sen- timent of the country. \After all,\ Zukowski pondered, \This is the era of Proposition 13.\ I As of Oct. 27, the Stud.ent following clubs, organizations, Forum Government has ap- and committees: proved the budgets for the Clubs Amount Finance Comm. 10 Percent Requested Recommendation Cut Figure Amnesty International $ 755 Big Brothers-Big Sisters 4,025 Biology Club 785 Black & Latin All. 14,800 Cabaret 3,064 Ceteris Paribus 2,800 Cheerleaders 1,555 Chemistry Club 225 Chinese Student Assoc. 1,591 Circle K Club 798 Coffeehouse 3,980 Concert Conunittee 29,380 Concordiensis 16,835 CW'ling Club 341 Dance Club 8,178 Electronic Music Club 75 ·Fencing Club 826 Film Committee 12,260 Frisbee Club 258 Garnet 10,108 Idol Magazine 8,555 International Relations 5,232 Jazz Ensemble 3;016 Men's Glee Club 19,100 Outing Club 3,738 Rugby Club 1,711 Philomathean Society 985 Photography Club 1 ,427 Political Forum 2,420 Pre-Health Society 750 Scuba Club 5,328 Ski Club-Ski Team 2,285 Social Committee 22,450 Speaker's Forum 21,320 Stone Boat Club 885 Student Forum 665 Union Views 3,000 · When Diplomacy Fails 153 Women's Glee Club 7,000 Women's Network 4,170 WRUC 26.903 W2UC (Amateur Radio Club)· 645 Volleyball Club 499 Yacht Racing Assoc. 2,005 700 3,753 785 3,080 3,064 750 565 195 1,261 765 3,815 24,530 11,035 342 3,537 75 760 12,260 258 8,711 6,985 4,612 2,856 15,100 2,997 2,709 945 1,427 2,120 600 3,410 2,285 16,600 21,320 885 665 3,000 143 6,200 2,745 18,981 645 499 1,787 $ 199,756 630 3,377 706 2,772 2,757 675 508 175 1,134 688 3,433 22,077 9,931 306 3,183 67 684 11,034 232 7,840 6,286 4,150 2,570 13,590 2,697 2,438 850 1,284 1,908 540 3,069 2,056 14,940 19,188 796 598 2,700 128 5,580 2,470 17,082 580 449 1,608 P: 1 B ap Eil Ca pol for wo bit He too Cm fill age: v bee de a cho Tur fr01 of : VOtl the dre sen Pre c w. .Jim Real CIS Sl ranc segn to hi to rr AI be It univ as n long· the educ At cand quic1 are natic sitie spok of < sidiz Jol By( Vi! Wi Unit An dE majc have futm On Luce of SJ front Anot imp~ how be PI first Peo1 cam] asta be 1 futur Pl1 all tl atte1 consi to prop' NevE been each impa the t pack Th paig1 basic exer• a sta term

OONOORDIENSIB, October 30, 1980. Page 3 ~·.:. Presidential Election: Time for a Check-Up? tunately, the mass media have made a relatively serious effort in recent weeks to focus public attention upon the more sub- stantial issues in the cap1paign, aft~r spending incredible amounts , of time and energy managed to piece together once more the traditional Democratic coalition in the northern urban-industrial states and the southern states where there is heavy black voting. Should he \luck out\ an.d take California, you can safely turn your TV sets off by midnight (assuming a desperate early projection of the California winner by ABC). My hunch is, however, that the vote will be exceptionally close in several of the populous battleground states, and thl:l.t the final verdict will not come before breakfast on Wednesday, Nov. 5. If John Anderson ex- ceeds 10 percent of the .popular vote in most of the key states, Reagan will win the election. If Anderson fails to reach five percent in these states, Carter will prevail. By CHARLES M. TIDMARCH Associate Professor of Political Science Our great national · dental appointment draws near. Eitber Dr. Reagan or Dr. Carter will be performing political root canal work on us for the next four years. They would approach the .procedure a bit differently, of course. Reagan will say that a tooth is a tooth and any tooth will do. Carter will keep drilling and filling the same tooth again and again, hoping to get it right. Who can blame us ff we have been unable to muster a great deal of enthusiasm for the choice facing us on Nov. 4? Turnout promises to decline from ,its scandalously low level~ of 1976, and many prospective voters are preparing to enter the voting booth with a sense of dread barely subordinated to a sense of· citizen duty. A President seemingly incapable of inspiring confidence and who h;:ts achieved the distinction of scoring the lowest approval ratings in the· history of the Gallup and Harris Polls seems to be on the verge of rebuffing the chaHenge of a man whose notion of the way the world works dates from 1927. A worthy independent candidate, John Anderson, may end up with less than half of the popular vote percentage received by the inimitable George Wallace in 1968. · As depressing as the choice and the likely outcomes may seem to be, it could actually be. worse. In the Jkst place, Richard Nixon is not a can-. didate, which is always good ne~S. · Secondly, console yourself with the recognitic:>fl that Messrs. Carter and Reagan won their nominations fair and square (well, almost) in the most elabor~te and protracted series of primary elections, caucuses, and conventions ever held in any nation. Obviously .Jots of your fellow citizens really pref-erred these guys; Thirdly, no matter which candidate is electect, he will be in no position to effect drastic ... changes for the worse in the nature of American society, the economy, or the international: scene. Contrary to what some pessimists are saying, I tend to believe that President Carter can't possibly do worse than he has done since January 19.77. Furthermore, Mr. Reagan can accomplish virtually nothing on hi<> own, absent congressional approval or at least in- difference. And a Democratic Congress wHI neitber assert nor look the other way. Although Mr. Reagan may be the most skilled communicator in the -realm of presidential politics since FDR, his skills are less crucial than partisanship and issues in shaping the final results of the contest. For- reporting poll results strategies, logistics, travels' and trivia for most of the first nine months of 1980. If you have been watching and reading a lot recently, ~ou have probably been learnmg more than you !'eally want to know about the candidates' views. If Reagan wins, the rhetorical ante in the liberal-conservative struggle will be upped con- siderably, and even if he loses, his ideas and slogans will not soon fade away. Whether liberals like it or not, the agenda of American politics is coming increasingly to be shaped by the right. Conservatives are no longer in a reactive posture waiting to counterpunch against liberal initiatives. (I note with some apprehension the shenanigans of the Moral Majority and related groups. J If Carter achieves re-election, it · will be because he has My fearless prediction is a Carter popular vote plurality of less. than a million votes and hair-breadth Electoral College majority, but I would not be surprised to see a Reagan Electoral College victory to go with his popular vote loss. r Please destroy this paper after reading the above prediction.) Carter. Reagan Vague on, College Aid By MICHAEL AKRUSH College Press Service WASHINGTON, D.C.--Both .Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan seek a balanced budget as soon as possible, but neither candidate will specify which segments of government's aid to higher education would be cut to meet that goal. Almost certain victims of any belt-tightening, colleges and universities are still in the dark as neither man has designed a long-range strategy to cope with the escalating costs of higher ·· education. At the same time, the two candidates have been waging quiet campaigns. claiming they are the closest friend of the nation's colleges and univer- sities. The president's spokesmen point to his long list of accomplishments in sub-, sidizing college education for John Anderson: many lower and middle-income youth. Ronald Reagan's team makes it sound like no other former governor ever did as much for the students of his state. \Jimmy Carter has done more for students of higher education than any other president,\ says Anne Wexler, special assistant to the president. ''Over a four-year period, he has increased aid to the system by more than 72 percent. Our focus wlll continue to be to help students make it into college.\ \Ronald Reagan boosted state loans and across-the- board scholarships by 900 percent during his two terms,'' counters Mary English, a Reagan press aide, \and he raised state expenditures for state schoo-ls and community C'Olleges by several times.\ Wexler, though admitting 'there would have to be budget cuts somewhere to achieve the promised balanced federal budget, refuses to speculate where they would be. Instead, she says, the American people should leave it up to the better judgment of Jimmy Carter to decide what is necessary and what is fat in the budget. ''Reagan wants to restore the integrity of our higher education system, especially the student loan program,\ English adds. \Most of aU, he believes that if we fix the economy, that would be the best solution for the colleges.\ Yet Reagan's record in dealing with higher education was highly controversial in the past. As California governor during the turbulant protests of the sixties, at tirnes he became very impatient. · And it is said that many of the massive student aid programs he signed into law were stuffed down his throat by a liberal- minded legislature. He, it is alleged, was personally against those programs. Carter, on .the other hand, raises some doubts about his future plans for higher education. Even Wexler con- cedes that the president has developed no concrete overall plan to deal with the upcoming problems of colleges during the next four years. Despite the certainty of difficult financial conditions, neither .aide could promise that the federal government would be there to pick up the slack. \Everybody has to learn how to tighten the belt,'' said Wexler, implying that colleges and universities would have no choice but to reduce or even eliminate specific programs of departments. \The role of the federal govermnent will be what is has always been,\ she adds, \and that is to help the students as much as possible. If we do our part and the states do theirs, there shouldn't be any problem.\ English said that other than Reagan's firm corrunittment to repairing the economy~which he believes would automatically solve most of higher education's problems-the governor has no specific programs to insure the stability of many institutions. But, considering his belief that states and localities should have more control over education, it seems likely that he would reduce the involvement of the federal government. Either candidate's position can hardly Q.e a source of op- timism for college ad- ministrators and faculty members across the country. A Cand.idacy With Lasting Impact? - By CLIFFORD W. BROWN JR. Visiting Associate Professor Of Political Science Win or lose, the National Unity Campaign for John Anderson can boast a number of tnaj or achievements, which will have a lasting impact on the future of American politics. One of these is the Anderson- Lucey platform, a detailed set of specific proposals for con- fronting the nation's problems. Another is a detailed budget impact statement that shows how each of the proposals can be paid for-and when. This is a first in American politics. People associated with the campaign hope that this will be a standard to which parties may be held accountable in the future. Platforms generally promise all things to all people, with no attempt to reconcile in- consistencies and with no effort to demonstrate how the proposals can ·be paid for. Never before has an attempt been made to state the cost of -each program, tbe revenue impact oLeach proposal, and the budget impact of the entire package. The Anderson-Lucey cam- paign has gone far beyond this basic \truth-in-campaigning\ exercise •. Mr. Anderson has set a standard .for campaigners in te~ of addressing the Issues . . . . ~ ...... 1 • ,. .. ~ \ ' • .. ... .. .. .. • • A' • .. • • • with candor and specificty. Beyond the question of issues, the national unity campaign has achieved a number of political breakthrough and has simultaneously rais.ed a number of question.§- about the current campaign laws. It has a demonstrated that it is possible for an independent to achieve ballot access in all 50 states. To the best of my knowledge, this has never been done before. The campaign has also demonstrated \that a centrist candidate can become the focus .of a :rpajor political effort. Leaving aside the . Roosevelt campaign in 1912, virtually all non-major party efforts have representeq an extreme segment of the voting population. Mr. Anderson is threatening to major parties from the middle, not from the ·wings. The financial difficulties of the campaign demonstrate quite clearly the need for reform. Both major parties receiVed $29 million to finance their campaigns. Mr. Anderson received nothing. He did, however, receive the promise that if his candidacy attracted more than five percent of the vote, the government, after the election, would pay his debts, up to an amount :governed by the size of the vote he received. (Five pert:ent would yiercl about $3 million; 10 percent would vield about $6 million, etc.) The problem with this arrangement has been, however, that no entity {person or corporation) may lend a campaign . more than $1,000, unless that entity is a com~ mercia! bank. The commercial banking laws, however, make it difficult to loan money to campaigns, unless those loans are secured by something, more than a Gallop Poll rating. The campaign finance laws, therefore, are in serious need of revision· to escape the Catch-2:1 implications of their current language. It is to be expected that the Anderson campaign will result in such a reform. But beyond the political a.c· complishments of this cam- paign, beyond whatever im- provements may emerge in electoral process, there is something else, something more fundamental that the campaign has accomplished. It has given a large nwnber of people something to believe in. With its insistance on honesty, integrity, and openness, the campaign has been an in- spiration to millions, precisely because it has been conducted as a campaign ought to be conducted, in a modern democracy. This is its lasting legacy, and it is -upon this legacy that the future of Jolu; Anderson-win or lose-will bt· built. Editors' Note: Prof. Brown has worked on the Anderson campaign this year, as a research director. Movie Star for President His films were never box office blockbusters. They're not even included- in most .film directories and encyclopedias. But now, almost two decades since he retired from feature films, Ronald Reagan movies are in high demand among colleges and universities that rent films. Several booking agents report being flooded with rental requests since Reagan was assured of the Republican nomination for President. They report that IllOSt of Reagan's films are all booked .up through the middle of November. \We've had so many calls it's been just amazing,\ reported Leslee Scamahorn, a ~rketing ~ \ . . , representative at Universal Studios in Hillywood. Ms. Scamahorn says her company gets many of the calls because it owns \Bedtime for Bonzo\ a 1951 film in which Reagan co-stars with a chim- panzee. Last spring,.....the film committee here presented \Bedtime.\ \That's the one everybody wants. It's the one thay (students and ·otbers) like to make fun of,\ she added. Many booking agents believe making fun of a candidate is the main reason for the large in- crease in r~ntal requests. Screening a Ronald Reagan film, Scamahorn said seems to be the hottest idea for certain entertainment. People just want to use the films .at a party or any kind of special gathering. They can't believe this could be our next president,\ she says. Bee Herman, a sales representative at Audio Brandon Films, Inc. of Mount Vernon, N.Y., is also surprised by the interest in Reagan films from the campuses she helps service. Just after receiving another inquiry from an Oregon school, she noted, \I have worked here for 14 years, and never once received a call for any of Reagan's old films. Now hardly· a day goes by when someone doesn't call about Reagan.\ ' . ' ~ -. ·' - • • ' ...... - • ~ j, f ...... 4 • \ - ~ .. \\' ·~ .'( ....... ' ~· ...... 4 .. - •• • .~ .\

OONOORDIENSIS, October 30, 1980 Page 3 Presidential Election: Time for a Check-Up? tunately, the mass media have made a relatively serious effort in recent weeks to focus public attention upon the more sub- stantial issues in the campaign, aft.er spending incredible amounts of time and energy reporting poll results, strategies, logistics, travels and trivia for most of the first nine months of 1980. If you have been watching and reading a lot recently, you have probably been learning more than you really want to know about the candidates' views. managed to piece together once more the traditional Democratic coalition in the northern urban-industrial states and the southern states where there is heavy black voting. Should he \luck out\ a11d take California, you can safely turn your TV sets off by midnight (assuming a desperate early projection of the California winner by ABC!. My hunch is, however, that the vote will be exceptionally close in several of the populous battleground states, and tha.t the final verdict will not come be~ore breakfast on Wednesday, Nov. 5. If John Anderson ex- eeeds 10 percent of the popular vote in most of the key states. Reagan will win the election. If Anderson fails to reach five percent in these states, Carter wHl prevail. By CHARLES M. TIDMARCH Associate Professor of Political Science Our great national dental appointment draws near. Either Dr. Reagan or Dr. Carter will be performing political root canal wark on us for the 11ext four years. They wouldapproach the procedure a bit differently, of course. Heagan wiB say that a tooth is a tooth and any tooth wiH do. Carter wiH keep drilling and filling the same tooth again and again, h@ping to get it right. Who can blame us if we have been unable to muster a great deal of enthtisiasm for the choice fadng us on Nov. 4? Turnout promises to decline from its scandalotisly low level of 1976. and many prospective voters arc preparing to enter the voting booth with a sense of dread barely subordinated to a sense of citizen duty. A President seemingly incapable of inspiring confideNce and whe has achieved the distinction of scoring the lowest approval ratings in the history ef the Ga:Uup and Harris Polls seems to be on the verge of rebuffing the chaHenge of a man whose notion of the way the world works dates from 1927. A worthy independent candidate, John Anderson, may end up with less than half of the popular vote percentage received by the inimitable George W al'lace in 1968. As depressing as the ch0ice and the likely outcomes may seem to be, it could actuaUy be worse. In the _first place, Richard Nixon is not a can- didate, which is always good news. Secondly, console yourself with the recognition that Messrs. Carter and Reagan won their nominations fair and square 1 well, almost) in the most elabora,te and protracted series of primary elections, ca~:~cuses, and conventions ever held in any nation. Obviously lots of your fellow citizens really preferred these guys. Thirdly, no matter which candidate is elected, he will be in no position to effect drastic · changes for the worse in the nature of American society, the economy, or the international scene. Contrary to what some pessimists are saying, I tend to believe that President Carter can't possibly do worse than he has done since January 1977. Furthermore. Mr. Reagan can accomplish viduaHy nothiHg on hi'i own, absent congressional approval or at least in- difference. And a Democratic Congress will neither assert nor look the other way. Although Mr. Reagan may be the most skilled communicator in the realm of presidential politics since FDR, his skills are less crucial than partisanship and issues in shaping the final results of the contest. For- If Reagan wins, the rhetorical ante in the liberail-conservative struggle wiU be upped con- siderably, and even if he loses, his ideas aAd slogans will not soon fade away. Whethet liberals like it or not, the agenda of American politics is coming increasingly to be shaped by the right. Conservatives are no longer in a reactive posture waiting to counterpunch against liberal initiatives. (! note with some apprehension the shenanigans of the Moral Majority and related groups.) If Carter achieves re-election, it wi.Jl be because he has My fearless prediction is a Carter popular vote plurality of less than a million votes and hair:.breadth Electoral College majority, but I would not be surprised to see a Reagan F: lect0ral College victory to go with his popular vote loss. 1 Please destroy this paper after reading the above prediction. l Carter. Reagan Vague on, College Aid Bv MICHAEL AKRUSH College Press Service WASHINGTON, D.C.--Both .Jimmy Carter and Rmwld Reagan seek a balanced budget as sooN as possible, but neither randidate will specify which segments of government's aid to higher· education would be cut tc1 meet that goal. Almost certain victims of any belt-tightening, colleges and universities are still in the dark as neither man has designed a long-range strategy to cope with the escalating costs of higher education. At the same time. the two candidates have been waging quiet campaigns claiming they are the closest friend of the nation's colleges and univer- sities. The president's spokesmen point to his long list of accomplishments in sub-, sidizing college education for John Anderson: manv lower and middle-income youth. Ronald Reagan's team makes it sound like no other former governor ever did as much for the students of his state. \Jimmv Carter has done more for students of higher education than any other president,\ says Anne Wexler. special assistant to the president. \Over a four-year pe1·iod. he has increased aid to the system by more than 72 percent. Our focus wiU continue to be to help students make it into college.\ \Ronald Reagan boosted state loans and across-the- board scholarships by 900 percent during his two terms,\ counters Mary English, a Reagan press aide, \and he raised state expenditures for state schools and community ('olleges by several times.\ Wexler, though admitting there would have to be budget cuts somewhere to achieve the promised balanced federal budget, refuses to speculate where they would be. Instead, she says, the American people should leave it up to the better judgment of Jimmy Carter to decide what is necessary and what is fat in the budget. ''Reagan wants to restore the integrity of our higher education system. especially the student loan program,\ F:nglish adds. \Most of all, he believes that if we fix: the economv, that would be the best solution· for the colleges.\ Yet Reagan's record in dealing with higher education was highly controversial in the past. As California governor during the turbulant protests of the sixties, at times he became \'ery impatient. And it is said that many of the massive student aid programs he signed into law were stuffed down his throat by a liberal- minded legislature. He, it is alleged, was personally against those programs. Carter, on the other hand, raises some doubts about his future plans for higher education. Even Wexler con- cedes that the president has developed no concrete overall plan to deal with the upcoming problems of colleges during the next four years. Despite the certainty of difficult financial conditions, neither aide could promise that the federal government would be there to pick up the slack. \E\'erybody has to learn how to tighten the belt,\ said Wexler, implying that colleges and universities would have no choice but to reduce or even eliminate specific programs of departments. '\The role of the federal government will be what is has always been,\ she adds. \and that is to help the students as much as possible. If we do our part and the states do theirs, there shouldn't be any problem.\ English said that other than Reagan's firm committment to repairing the economy-which he believes would automatically solve most of higher education's problems--the governor has no specific programs to insure the stability of many institutions. But, considering his belief that states and localities should have more control over education, it seems likely that he would reduce the involvement of the federal government. Either candidate's position ean hardly l:)e a source of op- timism for college ad- ministrators and faculty members across the cotu1try. A Candidacy With Lasting Impact? By CLIFFORD W. BROWN JR. Visiting Associate Professor Of Political Science Win or lose, the National Unity Campaign for John Anderson can boast a number of major achievements, which will have a lasting impact. en the future of American politics. One of these is the Anderson- Lucey platform, a detailed set of specific proposals for con- fronting the nation's problems. Another is a detailed budget impact statement that shows how each of the proposals can be paid for-and when. This is a first in American politics. People associated with the campaign hope that this will be a standard to which parties may be held accountable in the future. Platforms generally promise all things to all people, with no attempt to reconcile in- consistencies and with no effort to demonstrate how the proposals can be paid for. Never before has an attempt been made to state the cost of each p~ogrann, the revenue impact of each proposal, and the budget impact of the entire package_ The Anderson-Lucey cam- paign has gone far beyond this basic \truth-in-campaigning\ exercise. Mr. Anderson has set a standard for campaigners in terimJ of addressing the issues with candor and specificty. Beyond the question of issues, the national unity campaign has achieved a number of political breakthrough and has simultaneously rais.ed a number of questions about the current campaign Jaws. It has a demonstrated that it is possible for an independent to achieve ballot access in all 50 states. To the best of my knowledge, this has never been done before. The campaign has also demonstrated that a centrist candidate can become the focus of a major political effort. Leaving aside the Roosevelt campaign in 1912, virtually all non-major party efforts have represented an extreme segment of the voting population. Mr. Anderson is threatening to major parties from the middle, not from the wings. The financial difficulties of the campaign demonstrate quite clearly the need for reform. Both major parties received $29 million to finance their campaigns. Mr. Anderson received nothing. He did, however, receive the promise that if his candidacy attracted more than five percent of the vote, the government, after the election, would pay his debts, up to an amount governed by the size of the vote he received. (Five per:!ent would yield about $3 million; 10 percent would vield about $6 million, etc.) The problem with this arrangement has been, however, that no entity (person or corporation) may lend a campaign more than $1,000, unless that entity is a com- mercial bank. The corrunercial banking laws, however, make it difficult to loan money to campaigns, unless those loans are secured by something, more than a Gallop Poll rating. The campaign tmance laws, therefore, are in serious need of revision to escape the Catch-22 implications of their current language. It is to be expected that the Anderson campaigr. will result in such a reform. But beyond the political ac· complishments of this cam paign, beyond whatever im- provements may emerge in electoral process, there is something else, something more fundamental that the campaign has accomplished. It has given a large number of people something to believe in. With its insistance on honesty, integri~y, and openness, the campaign has been an in- spiration to millions. precisely because it has been conducted as a campaign ought to be conducted, in a modern democracy. This is its lasting legacy, and it is upon this legacy that the future of Joh1 Anderson-win or lose-will bo built. Editors' Note: Prof. Brown has worked on the Anderson campaign this year, as a research director. Movie Star for President His films were never box office blockbusters. They're not even included in most film directories and encyclopedias. But now, almost two decades since he retired from feature films, Ronald Reagan movies are in high demand among colleges and universities that rent films. Several booking agents report being flooded with rental requests since Reagan was assured of the Republican nomination for President. They report that most of Reagan's films are all booked up through the middle of November. \We've had so many calls it's been just amazing,\ reported Leslee Scamahorn, a marketing representative at Universal Studios in Hillywood. Ms. Scamahorn says her company gets many of the calls because it owns \Bedtime for Bonzo\ a 1951 film in which Reagan co-stars with a chim- panzee. Last spring,. the film committee here presented \Bedtime.\ ''That's the one everybody wants. It's the one thay (students and ·others) like to make fun of,\ she added. Many booking agents believe making fun of a candidate is the main reason for the large in- crease in rental requests. Screening a Ronald Reagan fihn, Scamahorn said seems to be the hottest idea for certain entErtainment. People just want to use the films at a party or any kind of special gathering. They can't believe this could be our next president,\ she says. Bee Herman, a sales representative at Audio Brandon Films, Inc. of Mount Vernon, N.Y., is also surprised by the interest in Reagan films from t;ie campuses she helps se1vice. Just after receiving another inquiry from an Oregon school, slle noted, \I have worked here for 14 years, and never once received a call for any of Reagan's old films. Now hardly a day goes by when someone doesn't call about Reagan.\

Page 4 OONOORDIEN81S, October 30, 1980 MBA Syndrome Faced .Vl >- ..0 0 ... 0 ~ .!l. Abbie Hoffman, fugitive' and radical, will speak in the ·Memorial Chapel on No¥. 5 at B: 30 p.m. T~kets will be sold at the door · $1:00 f.or Union students, $1.50 for a II others. By JEFF SCARDINO This is the time of year when seniors are getting - ready to complete four years of course taking and partying. At thesame time they are preparing to enter the open world of reality. However, there _are many c-ollege seniors who elect to delay this entrance .by seeking a post-.graduate degree. There are many to choose from. The most popular include a M.D., a .1.D. · and a Phd. These have been the most:sought after post- :graduate degrees in the last two decades. However, there is one ;post-graduate degree which has .grown from emense obscurity: this is the MBA. College Acts on1 Hazing By ROBERTA RUBINSTEIN Fraternity hazing has existed for many years with relatively little notice. It was not until the recent tragedies that occurred at Ithaca College and Alfred University that New York state legislators began their attempts incorporating this act here. He has a list of regulations which each student will be receiving, and he has sent detailed letters to the presidents of all organizations informing them of their responsibilities. \at passing an act which prohibits the practice of hazing. This act was signed this sum- mer by Governor Hugh Carey and went into effect Sept. 1. The National Inter-Fraternity Council (NIFC) has been contacting Andolina and assuring him that the chapter houses here have incorporated the regulations prohibiting hazing into their by-laws. The difficulty remains in determining what are \reckless\ endangerments and what are ''harmless\ practical jokes. Often initiation into fraternities and sororities has involved ceremonies which may have been along the line of ''recklessness,\ .but no one in the practice of hazing can be said to hav,e intentionally wanted to <:ause a tragedy. \Hazing has not been much of a problem here at LJnion, '' -explained Andolina, \probably because Union is relatively small and any incident of hazing would be difficult to go un- noticed.\ The College has always been responsible for the occurances on campus. It should be noted that the College as well as the violator, will be held responsible for any in- cidenced of hazing. The new law prohibits: \by any action of situation which recklessly or intentionally endangers mental of physical health or involves the forced consumption of liquor or drugs for the purpose of initiation into or affiliation with any organization.\ .. The law also requires the colleges to have a written document prohibiting this practice and insists that the presidents of all organizations make their members aware of this prohibition. Michael Andolina of the Student Affairs Office has been working since the summer on If any individual is found violating these regulations, he can be penalized by expulsion, suspension or other disciplinary actions that the dean of students feels is in order. If the violator is in an organization, \recession of permission of the organization to operate on campus can be enforced.\ \Any college- dis.cipliriary proceedings taken against a violator is in addition to any applicable provisions: of the penal law.\ One an incident of hazing has been cited and reviewed by conduct committees, it is not likely that it will be ignored. Hazing, although defined as ridiculous, ,is a very serious lllatter. The practice of it will no longer go unnoticed in the hope of preventing any future in- necessary tragedies. Dutch Hollow Pub Specials Every Thursdqy is \Speci.aJs Night\ This Week's Special is Banana Daq11iris, $ l .25 Every Friday is \Buffet Night\ This Week: Olinese Food Buffet .. all you can eat $4 .. 00 Won Ton Soup Shrimp Chow Mein Vegetable Stir Fry Chinese Tea (5:30- 8:00p.m.) Chicken and Snow Peas · Egg goUs Fortu11e Cookies Every Saturday is \Beef and Brew\ from 5:30-8:00 p.m. Free pitcher of beer or carafe ot wine, and salad bar with every meal Every Tuesday is \Ha.ppy Hour\ from 9:30 ~- 10:30 p.m. Draft /Jeer 2 for 1 Most Drinks 75c The popularity of a MBA appeared on the horizon as early as 1950 .. Historically, there were schools which offered and conveyed a MBA long before 1950. The Amos Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College was the first graduate school in business. It was a pionet!ring step when Dartmouth established a graduate department and later an entire graduate complex for students to forge highly advanced in- tellectual skills for 'the business world. Illitially it was ~een as an experiment. Today, many MBA graduates see it as a dream come true. · The business world is also pleased with the results. In fact, many Fortune 500 COII:J.panies will swallow up most of the graduates from a blue-chip program this year or at least they will make them very tempting -offers. The business world is full of ambitious and bright managers. In many fields of business, the possession of a MBA is a prerequisite to being hired. There is a slight dilemma with obtaining a MBA and getting hired. Many of the top graduate business schools require that an applicant have some sufficient full-time working experience prior to applying. At the same time, most of these· same programs require that an individual have sufficient academic credentials which presents . a catch -22 situation, although many do not place any minimum admission standards; they do supply an abundant amount of statistical information of past or quite recent accepted eandidates. The results are quite im- pressive and present a problem for College and University seniors who are giving a lot of thought to applying for a position for the fall term of 1981. · Many of the top . graduate business schools will defer the acceptance of an individual from anywhere from on~ to three years. Their rationale for doing this is to give the ap- plicant a chance to acquire an adequate amount of working experience and for the ap- plicant to acquire a keener and more developed business mind. After this. period of time . the school feels and they hope that the individual feels ready to embark in the MBA experience. These institutions have placed _ the common goal of providing ~heir students with the best tools possible in becoming a professional manager in their curriculum. They like to have the best possible candidates to reflect the excellence of their program. The result of all this provides the average age of an entering MBA student ' at SOIIlewhere around 24 or 25. There is, however, a .large amount of entering MBA students who are younger and those who are older. Why is an MBA so important and popular? The obvious reason, which was mentioned previously, is · that the MBA is highly regarde~ by many top level and mid· level companies in the United States and in foreign CoWltries. These. companies' main ob- jective is to make a profit in the most efficient way as possible. In order to accomplish this, they need highly qualified in- dividuals to serve as managers. Therefore, many of these companies encourage anyone who wants to obtain and attain a top level position in management to comp~ete a MBA program especially one which is highly respected. Businessescol)centrate more on this type of applicant to fill a · vacancy in their management structure because they find that business school graduates seem to possessthe a btlity to adjust to any situation and have the extreme ability to catch on fast while being an example for others to adhere to. Therefare, many firms are willing to hire and compensate such an iri'- dividual with a sizable .salary who answer these seemingly basic qualifications. This is from the employer's point of view: The student's point of view is equally as important to con- sider when making the decision to apply for a MBA. What does a MBA have to offer? The very basic criteria that a business school provides is a broad background and training in various business skills. In a highly competitive job market the individual who possesses...an MBA will usually get hired, and their starting salaries are usually $3,500 to $10,000 more per year than an individual who does not have an MBA. For minorities, the MBA provides an important in- vitation to get an interview and it also provides the opportunity for a top level job in an American corporation. Hence, many graduate · programs encourage minorities to apply. Also, the market for female managers has increased in the last fifteen years. The result has been an increase in females applying to many of the most prestiges graduate business schools and ·programs. The percentage of females to males in many of the MBA programs ranges from 5 percent to 38 percent. The above represent many enticing and encouraging reasons to seek a MBA after graduation or after working for. awhile. There is not any par- ticular individual that a business school looks for. Most respected business programs seek a diversity of age, education, and business ex- perience in an applicant. Liberal arts as well as engineering majors are ac- cepted. There is not one perfect undergraduate major that is suitable for admission into a MBA prograin. Anyone possessing a four year degree is eligible. However, in a few rare cases the four year degree requirement has been waived pending the outstanding ac- complishment(s) of the par- ticular individual applying. In addition, there is other basic criteria that an institution considers when it reviews an application. These include letters of recommendation, the applicant's G~P.A. GMAT scores and any thing else that the applicant feels is relevant to their acceptance. There are many good reasons to apply for a MBA. No longer can a mother or aunt say, my son (or -daughter) the MBA as a novelty. A MBA is a very prestigious degree for an in- dividual to possess. Many things can blossom from ob- taining this degree. There are many reasons, to •apply and there are many individuals who do apply. As an applicant now or in the near future, there is one important item to keep in mind: an institution cannot make something out of you, such as a manager if you do not possess various managerial qualities in the first place. - ar Die when ever were no re man} the c tuck Colle! Thi estab in SE rnonE Accm Davie be gar Davi1 suggt: good been 1 the c1 the choco in a and tt forth ValE man relaye tuck i there Three reps bathrc bears. gave 1 other carrot famou the t freque anima with n out. le N In S1 became the l Depart: cham be structi amazec sitivit) abilitie: of the not yet meet P sketch terests hopeful Union ( Prof. small tc that· is many Inciden the onb Wales;· Preside miles f Prof. T Prof. began i abroad United l

OOl\J.OORDJENiiJS October 30, 1980 Page 5 Tuck-In -Now • Itt Service By KEVIN SNOVER . and CARYN OPENGART Did you ever get tucked in when you were little? Did you ever get tucked in when .you were grown-up? If so, there is no reason to stop now because many college campuses around the country are instituting a tuck in service and Union College is no exception. This is the general procedure used by the tuck in service. While the cost is 25 cents, it is very ·much worth it. As fresh- man Glenn Kurtoff commented, \It makes going to bed a lot more fun,\ official statement of the oc- casion (along with a chocolate kiss). If you or anyone you know is interested in being tucked in, the number to call is 6791. Don't be concerned with the distance between your dorm and Davidson, because, as Eric Peterson put it, \Have teddy bear, will travel.\ II) c::: .!r. w QJ ro .c u ~ Members of Davidson's Tuck-in Service demor~strate their .fine technique This year Davidson dorm has established the Davidson Tuck- in Service in order to raise money for dorm activities. According to Rob McHugh, Davidson North's H. A., the idea- began when \John Pietrangelo, Davidson's head R.A., suggested the service to be a good dorm activity. It's never been done before at Union, and the cost covers the expense of the teddy bears and the chocolate kisses. To get tucke(l in a person cans the nmnber and the service can be arranged for that person or a friend.\ The real question is, \Will the tuck in service catch on at Union?\ According to Eric Peterson, a Davidson ''tucker,\ the answer is yes. ''We are willing to tuck in anyone on campus. Females tuck in males; also .. Although there is a standard procedure we accept any requests such as a special story--even Xaviera Hollan- der.\ Union Attends Harvest Nipper Val~~ie Gutterman, a fresh- man resident in · Richmond, relayed her experience. with the tuck in servic.~. \At 11 p.m. there was a knock on my door. Three male Davidson tuck in reps entered wearing their bathrobes and carrying teddy bears. After tucking me in, one gave me a back rub while the other told me the story of the carrot seed. And then came the famous carrot seed song, which the tuck in service uses frequently. After all my stuffed animals were tucked into bed with me, they turned my lights out. left, and locked my door.\ In order to gain more ex- posure on campus, the tuck in service plans on advertising themselves, and has already availed itself to Nancy Raismon's {commonly known as \Nightingale\) radio show_ on WRUC. ''They called me up while I was .on the air one Saturday night,\ recalled Nancy, \and sang their carrot seed song on the air. Since I have an open request line, they also described what it is that they l;lctually do.\ When asked if .he recom- mended the service, one client stated, \Although they come on time, there is a problem in getting them to leave. But all in all. it's a lot of fun.\ In addition to the enjoyment and security offered by the tuck in service, all clients also receive a certificate with the signatures of the tuckers and an · By JOANNE WHITE Last weekend, nine Union students traveled to the University af -Massachussetts for the annual Harvest Nippe.r Weekend. Hosted by the University's 300 member Outing Club, the event attracted several outing clubs throughout New England and New York at Farley Lodge for three lively days of fun.filled activities. Upon arrival on Friday evening, campers were greeted by U. Mass students who led them on a mile hike up Mount Holyoke, from which they surveyed the Pioneer Valley and five colleges: U. Mass, . Hampshire, Mount HolY,oke, Smith, and Amherst. Cold but happy, hikers returned to the lodge for hot chocolate and gathered about the fire, con- versing with students from Babson,. Harvard, Central Connecticut, Brooklyn, Yale, and U.-Mass. Tents and lodge ac- commodations were provided New Music Prof. Arrives By FRED FENTER In September, Hillary Tann became the newest member of the Union College Arts ' Department. As a member of a chamber group under her in- struction, I am frequently amazed by her musical sen- sitivity and interpretive abilities. However, sin.ce most of the College community has not yet had an opportunity to meet Prof. Tann, the following sketch of her background, in- terests, and thoughts will hopefully serve to introduce Union College to Hillary Tam1. Prof. Tann was born in a small town in Wales, in an area that is now revegitating after many years of coal mining. Incidentally, Prof. Tann is not the only Union notable born in Wales; the birthplace of President Morris is just a few miles from the town in which Prof. Tann was raised. Prof. Tann's higher education began in Wales, and continued abroad in both England and the United States. She first studied at the University of Wales at Cardiff, where she received a degree in 1968. Her subsequent studies have taken her to Southampton University, where she worked on an analytical biography of Roberto Gerhard (a student of Schoenberg), and Princeton from which she received her M.A. After spending four and a half years at Princeton as a teaching assistant and graduate student, she taught at Bard College for three and one half years before finally moving to Union College in September. Her interests in music range from conducting small en- sembles on campus to com- posing pieces for a new form of music, known as computer music. Prof. Tann explained that she particularly enjoys instructing chamber music groups at Union because the students are \non-conservatory musicians\: Archetypal in- strumentalists often have an overwhelming concern with technical matters that can prevent their full individual Hillary Tann is the n~w addition 1o the participation in the shaping of a musical line. I enjoy being able to work with people whose main interest is not music, developing with them an ap- preciation of music they can use for the rest of their lives.\ Along with her work at Union as a musical instructor, Prof. Tann composes. She outllined for me some very particular ideas concerning how her compo~itions are sbaped: \I try not to write music which. is difficult for performers to play, and I have no desire to shock audiences .• Rather, I am con- cerned with creating a quiet, sustaining warld for the listener to inhabit while participating, that is hearing, the piece.\ Recently, she has composed for a new musical form called computer music. The basis of computer music is to use a computer to realize the in- strumental timbers of the composition-to perform it. One of the Prof. Tann's computer music compositions has been chosen fm· performance at the First International Conference on Computer Music, which will be held at M.I. T. As for her future goals, Prof. Tann believes that she has .found an ideal academic situation here at Union. She stated: \This is an incredibly fertile time to work at Union. The music program is being re- shaped to accommoqate more performers, inclu.ding per- formance of contemporary works, and the emphasis through the department is on the student's individual creative expression. As a faculty, we work together very well. We feel optimistic and excited about the possibilitiea that lie ahead fo:r Union Arts;_ and under Daniel Robbin's chairmanship even the Arts building itself is being redesigned!\ for visitors, and the Union group retreated to the lodge basement. On Saturday, all arose to a breakfast prepared by U. Mass students, then dispersed in various directions far canoeing, hiking, kayaking and caving. Despite inclement weather, rock :climbers hiked into the mountains, where U. Mass trip leaders demonstrated belaying and securing ropes. While some people climbed rocks, others sought shelter from t.he rain beneath a cliff, where they built a fire with dry twigs. Satlll\day· afternoon an op- portunity to get better acquainted and enjoy the traditional autumn activities of pumpkin carving, cider- pressing, and popcorn popping, as well as playing checkers and cards in the rush ~lodge. In the evening, groups convened at the Student Union for a con- tradance, a typical happening in the Pioneer Valley. Fast- paced, lively, and similar to the Virginia Reel, the dance was accompanied by a fiddling, foot- stomping country band. On Sunday morning, guests awoke to a brunch of homemade granola, toasted buttered bagels with cream cheese, and fresh fruit salad. Union cam- pers departed at 10 a.m. amidst plans -for another afternoon of whitewater canoeing, hiking, and caving. President J,on Jameson remarked on the overwhehning hospitality of the University of Massachussetts Outing Club, and stated that \a good time was had by all.\ Many students were surprised to meet old friends from other schools. A camaraderie developed bet- ween the Albany State club and Union members, and plans are now underway for a snowshoe softball game in the winter. Other club members suggested get-togethers with clubs from RPI, Sienna, St. Rose, and Skidmore. Suggestions are encouraged from interested students. Union's outing club meets a:t 7:30 on Tuesday evenings in Carnegie Hall, and new members are urged to join. The club presently consists of 70 members. The outing club of- fers an inexpensive opportunity to travel, get outdoor exercise- regardless of experience levels and meet people from other schools, as well as to get to know other Union students in a non-academic setting. Equipment and transportation for trips are included in the $2- term $5-year membership fee and costs such as the $6 all- inclusive fee for the Harvest Nipper, are suprisingly low. GARNET ' is now taking orders in Carnegie 12-4:30 $_10 -seniors $13- all others 164JaySt. Schenectady, N.Y. Ph: 374-9455 Phone 374-2803 Gifts Posters Cards Godiva Chocolates We will ship your gifts Hours: Mon. thru Sat. 10:30 to 5 Thurs. nite to 8:30 ' Riggi's Pizza Hot & Cold Sandwiches & Subs 2155 Van Vranken .Ave ' • 4 minute walk · To Girling Center L.J RIGGI'S Mohawk L Bank ·Alexander St. 'Field ·House I Union 1 Nott. St.

Page 6 OONOO'RDIENSIS,. Octo'ber :J0,-'-1980 ~ . • • . . ' cultur~ Arthur Miller Interviewed By DEMETRA PONTISAKOS Editor's Note: All comments by Arthy.r Miller, except for in- cidentals, were extracted from various articles written by Miller himself, a truly ex- traordinary man. Arthur Miller, author of The Crucible, which will be produced in November here at Union, answers some basic questions about the nature of the play. DEM: My first question, Mr. Miller, is: What stroke of genious compelled you to choose the Salem witch hunt of 1692 as the basis of a play'? I mean, there are very relevant human themes, and social themes, brought out in The Crucible, but why did you pick Salem as the medium to communicate these themes? ART: Well, the idea ef dramatizing the Salem witch trials had been in my mind for a considerable time, in fact, as far back as my student days at the University of Michigan in the thirties. Salem is one of the few dramas in history with a beginning, a middle and an end. The drama is complete because the people saw the error of their ways quite soon after the tragedy occurred. I was dealing with people very canscious of an ideology, of what they stood for . .. the revolution they had lived through was still in their minds . .. They were special people and could voice the things that were buried deep within them. Today's writers describe man's helplessness and eventual defeat. In Salem you have the story of a defeat because these people were destroyed . . . but they understood at the same time what was happening to them. They knew why they ~struggled . . . they knew how to struggle . . . they did not die helplessly. The moral size of these people drew me. They did not whimper. DEM: You seem to be ex- tremely attached to these characters . . . they seem almost tangible to you. ART: Well, yes, The Crucible is taken from history. No character is in the play who did not take a similar role in Salem in 1692. The basic story is recorded, if briefly, in certain documents of the time. It will be a long time before I will be able to shake Rebecca Nurse, Jobn Proctor, Giles Corey and the others out of my mind. They are people more real to me than the living ever will be. It gives me a sense of terrible marvel that people could have such a belief in themselves and the rightness of their consciences as to give their lives rather than to say what they thought was false. They knew who they were. So, tell me, as a member of the cast here at Union, how do you feel about the character you portray? About those people being recreated around you'/ DEM: Well, I've done some research on the situation and the reality of the whole thing just overwhelms me with-1 don't know-horror, anger, pity, respect for some-a •barrage of strong emotions. As director, Barry Smith pointed out to me today, I utter the exact words which sent Martha Corey to the gallows in 1692. The exact words! And they had seemed so harmless laying there in the script! When you realize the reality of what went on, the words all of a sudden aren't just words anymore: they are cries of apology from the graves of these people, or pleadings for personal justice, or the fossils of stoic truths. I guess that I'm saying that I'm quite attached to these people, too. I wish I could journey to Salem in the near future. · ART: I went to Salem for the first time early in the spring of 1953. I already knew the story and had thought about it for a long time. I had never been to Salem before,.and, driving alone up the brand new superhigh- way, I felt a shock at seeing the perfectly ordinary, steel sign reading, \Salem: 3 Miles.\ I confess it-something in me had expected to see the old wooden village, not the railroad tracks, the tactories, the trucks. These thin~s were not real, suddently, but intruders, as tourists are in the halls of Versailles. Underneath, in the earth, was the reality. DEM: That'.a deep, Mr. Miller, especially the thought that the people who whiz by Salem in their automobiles everyday and even the people who live there, for the most part, are oblivious to the fact, to the hard, evil reality, of Salem and ... ART: ... and to the evil (and the bravery) of Salem that lurks in their own hearts, Demetra. DEM: Oh God, yes! ART: That's why I wrote it. That's what I saw in Salem. I ask of a play, first, the dramatic question, the carpenter- builder's question-What is the ultimate force? How can that force be released? .Second, the human question-What is its ultimate relevancy to the survival of the race? I am asking for the world to be brought into the stage family, to be sure, but I begin and I end from the viewpoint of the dramatist, the dramatist seeking to intensify the power of his plays and his theater. There is something dramatically wrong, for instance, when an audience can see a play about the Nazi treatment of a group of Jews hiding in an attic and come away feeling the kind of- I can only call it gratification- which the audiences felt after seeing \The Diary of Anne Frank.'' Seeing this play I was not only an audience or even a Jew, but a dramatist, and it puzzled me why it was all so basically reassuring to watch what must have been the most harrowing kind of suffering in real life. As a constructor of plays, I had nothing technical of con- sequence to add. And I found myself putting to this play the question I have put to you-what is its relevancy to the survival of the race? Not the American race, or the Jewish race, or the German race, but the human race. And I believe the begin- ning of an answer has emerged. It is that with all its truths the play lacks the kind of spread vision, the over--vision beyond its characters and their problems, which could have illuminated not merely the cruelty of Nazism but something even more terrible. We see no Nazis in this play. Again, as w1th the plays I have mentioned, it is seen from the viewpoint of the adolescent, a poignant and human viewpoint to be sure, but surely a limited one. The approach of the Nazi is akin to the approach of a childhood Demon. What was necessary in this · play to break the hold of reassurance upon the audience, and to make it match the truth .of life, was that we should see the bestiality in our own hearts, so that we should know how we are brothers not only to these victims but to the Nazis, so that the ultimate terror of our lives should be faced-namely our own sadism, our own ability to obey orders from above, our own fear of standing finn on humane principle against the ebscene power of the mass o r.g ani z a ti on. Another dimension was waiting to be opened up behind this play, a dimension covered with our own sores, a dimension revealing us to ourselves. Once this dimension had been unveHed we could not have watched in the subtly perverse comfort of pathos; our terror would no longer be for these others but for ourselves, once that part of ourselves which covertly conspires with destruction was made known. Then, for one thing, even tragedy would have been possible, for the issue would not have been why the Nazis were so cruel, but why human beings- -ourselves,. us-,are so cruel. The pathetic thing is the refusal or inability to discover and face ultimate relevancy for the race; it is therefore a shield against ultimate dramatic effect. In my opinion, if · our stage does not come to pierce through affects to an evaluation of the world it will contract to a lesser psychiatry and an inexpert one at that. We shall be confined to writing an \Oedipus\ without its pestilence, an \Oedipus\ ·whose catastrophe is private and unrelated to the survival of his people, an \Oedipus\ who cannot tear out his eyes because there will be no standard by which he can judge himself; an \Oedipus in a word, who, on learning of his incestuous marriage, instead of tearing out his eyes, will merely wipe away his tears thus to declare his loneliness. Again, where a drama will not engage its relevancy for the race, it will halt at pathos, that tempting shield against ultimate dramatic effect, that coun- terfeit of meaning. DEM: So, The Crucible is relevant not only to the era of McCarthyism which everyone suspects was your sole in- spiration for recreating the Continued on .page 7 Rocky Horror Live After a seven year run on London's West End, the in- ternational entertainment phenomenon, \The 'Rocky Horror Show\ hassetits Albany engagement for Nov. 2 at the Palace Theatre. Alive and onstage, the production plays a single engagement here during its tour of North America. Written by Richard O'Brian, who also wrote the show's music and lyrics, the production is designed by Brian Thomson with costumes by Sue Blane, both repeating their original London stage and film assignments. Julian Hope is directing the show for its North American tour. An hilarious science fiction parody and romantic satire, \The Rocky Horror Show\ combines original rock and roll music with spoofs of American apple-pie innocence and an outrageous cast of stereotypical characters from Hollywood films of the 1950's. \Rocky\ became an unprecedented smash when it opened in London and was heralded as \Best Musical of the Year,\ con~ tinuing its run for seven con- secutive years. Its fibn version, \The Rocky Horror Picture Show,\ was released in 1975 and currently continues its late- night stint ih over 200 cinemas around the U.S. alone. Set in the heart of Middle America, the tale of Rocky's creation by his seductively decadent mentor, Dr. Frank N. Furter, has bred ~ fiercely loyal following throughout the world. The \Rocky Horror\ phenomenon is well known for its audiences and their offstage garb and participatory antics, as well as monthly. fan club puqlic~tions circulated in- ternatiOnally and several soundtrack albums from the film and from stage presen- tations around the world. \The Rocky Horror Show\ comes to Albany for a single engagement on November 2nd at the Palace Theatre. JOBNVALBY GIVES PIANOS , GRIAT B.I.NDJOBS!- COMING: TUESDAY, NOV. 11 8:00p.m. MEMORIAL CHAPEL , TICKETS: $2.50 before with Union to., $3.00 at the door A a c St c 7, a B w ir w il le 01 C< aJ M V! m di fo w: th '\•) se he h:J In N1 hi: lh RE th Ti of fir an tht se1 hh Gr wt art deJ lig co· pa: of Ar An Cit Bo: Mu Ma Ca Ins COl Ph Hi1 Wa SW< Ma the Fr:: Ke1 sbt pai

n ;t 1- 1- 1, ·e d ~- s e s y r. tl l. '' r e ' ,, b 1 e 'OONOORDJENSIS, October 30; 1980 Page 7 li,brary Exhibit · \Rockwell Kent, Artist and Adventurer\ will be the topic of a presentation by Linda Champagne VanDyke, spon- sored by The Friends of Union College Library, on November 7, 1980 at 8:00 p.m,, in the auditorium of the Social Science Building. An exhibit on Rock- well Kent will open at that date in Union's Schaffer Library and will include books written and illustrated by Kent, lithographs, letters and other memorabilia on loan from private and public collections. He was the youngest living artist to be represented in the Metropolitan's collections. collection of Kent material in a public institution. In the Soviet Union are over 80 .paintings and hundreds of drawings at the Hermit(!ge Museum in Leningrad and the Pushkin Museum in Moscow as well as regional musetirns. 1/) From Kent's life of adventure 'E flowed a series of ~ u a:utobiographical books; his ~ first in 1920 was \Wilderness a tl) Journal of Quiet Adventure in :0 Alaska,'' which he wrote and .c illu~trated in a blend of Jiterary ~ and illustrative art that makes .o all editions of it sought by .S collectors. _g culture Kent's life of travel and ad- venture, sometimes leading to n,ear-disaster, resulted from his desire to find remote settings for his paintings; his travels will be traced by VanDyke through the work he produced. \Loving the mountains and the sea, and feeling more at ease, at home in unfrequented places; I have travelled far/' he wrote. In 1914-15 he lived in Newfoundland; in 1918 he and his nine year old son Rockwell lived in a cabin on Fox Island, Resurrection Bay, Alaska; in the 1920's he went to paint in Tierra del Fuego and the Straits of Magellan; in 1928 he took the first of three trips to Greenland and during the 1930's he lived there in the small Eskimo settlement of Igdlorssuit with his 14 year old son, Gordon. The Greenland paintings, some of which will be shown in slides, are a culmination of his style, demonstrated by his control of light on 'the majestic snow- covered landscape. Kent's paintings are in the collections of the Philadelphia Museum of Art; the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York City; the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston; the Bowdoin College Museum of Art in Brunswick, Maine; theFoggArt Museum in Cambridge, Mass; the Ar~ Institute of Chicago; the Cor- coran Gallery of Art, the Phillips Collection and the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington, D.C.; the Farn· sworth Museum in Rockland, Maine; the California Palace of the Legion of Honor, San Fran6cisco; and the Rockwell Kent Gallery at SUNY, Platt- sburgh, which contains 20 paintings and the _largest Slides in the lecture will in- a. elude those on loan from Dan Burne Jones. Some materials in the library exhibit are articles and prints from Jones's vast collection. Other slides show work in the collection of Kent's fatnily. Durmg the past s~­ mer, VanDyke visisted the Monhegan Island home and studio of Kent, now owned by Anne and Edgat Hubert, who have retained Kent's original furnishing. Andy Weitzman reads from a script at Cabaret, while Dave Handler ... Greek Night at Cabaret Kent executed murals for the United States government in public buildings in Washington. He designed a mural for the General Electric Company for display at the 1939-40 World's Fair in New York City and at that time worked closely with Schenectady resident Walter Reagles, formerly director of G.E.'s commercial art department~ Reagles recently reminised with VanDyke about those years and the friendship he had with Kent. On a map made for his book \Salamina\ he playfully named a small , · Greenland peak for Reagles and called the land near-by the \General Electric Company Ice · Cap.\ VanDyke met Kent in the 1960's, first photographing him and writing a feature about him for the Lake Placid News. She reviewed his major exhibit in 1969 at Bowdoin College Art Museum while working for the Albany Times Union. Using correspondence supplied her by Kent, she wrote for the Maine Times of Kent's problems with Maine's Farnsworth Gallery during the political repression of the McCarthy era of the 1950's. Her personmd letters to the editor of the Maine Times following a devastating fire in By GILLE ANN RABBIN Last Thursday was S.D. T. night at Cabaret. Letters S.D.T. stand for \Sigma Delta Tau\ in Greek. I think however, they Kent's Ausable Forks horne in 1969 were·later printed as a feature in the paper. At the 1980 Winter Olympics, as a writer for the I LOVE NEW YORK campaign, she did a feature for distribution to the world press on Kent paintings displayed at the Olympic Village in Lake Placid. In February she ac• companied seven members of the Russian press delegation on a tour.of Kent's home in near-by AuSable, where his widow Sally oversees the Rockwell Kent Legacies. In the Kent exhibit at Schaffer ·Library from November 7 until December 12 will be letters from Kent to VanDyke as well as books and lithographs that were gifts from the .artist to her. Films taken by Kent during his 1935 trip to Greenland, on loan from Kent's family, will be shown during the evening as they show the artists going for a day of painting out-of-doors with his sledge and a dog team. A short Russian film on Kent-'s work will give the perspective that another country has of this American realist painter. VanDyke, a native of the Adirondack Mountains, now lives in Niskayuna where she is a Town Historian. The Union College Social Committee Presents NIGHTCLUB An Evening of Entertainment\ and Dancing Saturday, November 1 sf 9:00 p.m. Alumni Gym Featuring The Amazing hypnotist John Kolisch And the Band Act Ill Tickets are $3.00 SPECIAL GROUP RATE \' 10 Tickets for $25.00 One Free Drink included in the price Drinks. only soc Semi- Formal Tickets on Sale Now! in student activities Get Yours Now! really should stand for \So Definitely Talented.\ The first act was Beth Baumgarten and Debbie Poletto. Debbie and Beth sang, while Debbie played the guitar. Their performance was lovely, and I especially enjoyed Cat Stevens \Father to Son,\ and \Teach Your Children,\ by Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young. Debbie and Beth's har- monization was beautiful-· imaginative and pretty. The second act was quite different than the first, but nonetheless enjoyable. It consisted of a series of comedy skits, which were written and organized for the most part by Kim Nogay. This act reminded me of a collegiate \Saturday Night Live,\ complete with a ''Point-Counterpoint,'' which probed the pros and cons of the trimester as opposed to the semester system. Not to be forgotten was the \News Update,\ which had Roseann Roseannadanna trying to deal with the absorbencies of various brands of tampons. (What could you expect from R.R.?) One of the funniest skits was con- cerned with the dangers of fraternity hazing, and another one portrayed the trials and tribulations of a student at Confession. I enjoyed last Thursday's Cabaret. It was a change of pace from Cabaret•s usually more mellow bill of fare. However, I did miss the peanuts which seem to have been replaced by crllnchy little circular pretzels. Congratulations to S.D.T. sisters Kim, Debbie, and Beth. If becoming a sister at S.D.T. will make me as talented as you guys, I'm pledging today. Smythe History Many years ago, when Eustas P. Smythe was President of Union College, the lQcal papers were often full of stories about him. Banner headlines declaring another of Smythe's disgusting escapades were commonplace.. One article may have dealt with his lust for dead bodies while another would find him unfit for such a high position in our society. Why? Because his spreading of herpes was becorning an epidemic. All ended well for Eustas; he was honored by having Smythe House named after him. However, a few years later, the Smythe tradition was being carried on by Eustas' grand- nephew, W.T. Smythe. In a nearby town of Clinton, N.Y. W. T. Smythe attended Hamilton College. It was there that Smythe continued his granduncle's interest in social diseases. In fact, in his four years at Hamilton, W.T. Smythe contracted various types of social diseases and enjoyed spreading tllem to the girls of Kirkland College. After being graduated from Hamilton W. T. Smythe returned to his granduncle's alma mater. He can often be found wandering around the Union College campus searching for innocent females, especially freshmen. So beware!! Arthur Miller • • • Continued from page 6 Salem, drama, but to the witch hunters, urgent hystericals and- or martyrs in all of us today. We can't say, \That's not me,\ or \Boy were they stupid\ when considering The Crucible. It is not something we are not above. As frightening as it may be, it is something that is within us, that is an integral part of us. ART: Everyday of our lives! I would be interested to see how the Union community views the play. DEM: Well, we've got a month to persuade them that they have to look at it with a \That's us\ attitude, and that truly will influence what they get out of it. ART: Well, in the words of John Proctor, \Aye that's the truth of it.\ And indeed it is, Demetra. DEM: Well, Mr. lVIiller, I thank you for your time and comments, but mostly for your Crucible. We promise to do it justice in November! ART: Okay! Thank you and good luck with the production. I'll be there! I know you will . . . (and so will the nineteen that hanged). Happy Birthday Grace Slick

Page 8 .New Resource Staffer Named Pat Matteo is the newest staff member of the Office of Placement and Career Resources. Her work at Union is geared specifically toward the job opportunities and positions available to liberal arts students. As Career Advisors, Pat Matteo, and her assistant, Jane Wood, are currently running workshops in Resume Writing and Interviewing Skills. They have already seen ap- proximately 160 students through this workshop. Several workshops intended for the liberal arts students are being planned. These workshops will explore alternative job search strategies, and help identify functional and transferrable skills. Career seminars will also be held. Pat Matteo hopes to con- siderably expand .the outreach of the program. She would like to be able to see all classes of students, not only seniors. Her plans to do this will be carried out around December, it is hoped. Ms. Matteo believes that students do not see the liberal arts education as a whole. One of her goals (which she plans to attain through a planned workshop) is to \dispell some of the myths concerning liberal arts education (majors dictate careers, for example), and to center on using creative thinking as a tool in expanding career options.'' She feels that a liberal arts education gives a student flexibility and tran- sferrable skills in the job market. Prior to her arrival at Union, Ms. Matteo worked in the office of Career Services at St. Michael's College. Before this, she worked in the admissions office at Widner College and with the Residence Life office at the University of Vermont. JESSICA TRACHTEN WRUC Covers Election This Tuesday night will be a \party\ night on campus in \ more ways than one. The WRUC newsteam will broad- cast up-to-the-minute live coverage of the Presidential, Senatorial and Congressional races from 10 p.m. until 2 a.m. The informative and en- HIGH EARNINGS FREE TRAVEL BENEFITS National Travel and Marketing Co. seeks Highly Motivated Individual to reprosent its Collegiate Travel Vocations on your Campus. No ~Kp. nee. Will train. Call (212) 855·7120 or Write Campus Vac.ation Associations 26 Court St., Brooklyn, N.'.'. 11242 . OONCORDIENSIS, .October ~0, 1980 roun am us tertaining covera.ge, which inside sources say could rival Walter C., will stress the Union perspective in its presentation of the election races. In-depth editorials concerning the candidates and issues, as wen as exclusive interviews with Union students and student polls, will be broadcast con· tinuously throughout the night. Intri.gui.ng facts and trivia concerning the elections as a whole will ,be sent ,over the air waves in addition te the WRUC live coverage @.f election results. News director Jane Cavalier and assistant news director Michelle DiSimone .believe that, presQJ.ting the election from a ''Uniori point of V.iew\ will g.jve the campus community the chance to relate to the elections in a more pefsonalized manner · than that offered by other stations. A night like this happens only once every four years, so remember to press your buttons and turn your knobs to WRUC for election night coverage with a Union twist. Registrar, Room · 2, Administration Building, beginning Monday, November lOth. Stud~nts are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the winter term, except for graduating seniors, must im- mediately give notice of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. Potential December graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of fall term, if they have not already done so. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the week of November 10-14. Some departments may a11nounce special arrangements for ad- vising. Please be alert for such announcements. Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, November 17th. A ten dollar ($10,IK)Iate fee will be assessed thereafter. German Film BARBARA PLOTKIN ·Series Continues • Pre-Registration Dates Set · Tuesday night, Nov. 4, at 7:30 in SS 016 Werner Herzog's film Stroszek will be played. Herzog is the young director of other well received films like \Aguirre the Wrath of God,\ ''The Mystery of Kaspar Hauser,\ \The Great Ecstasy Pre-registration materials for winter term 1980-81 will be available at the Office of the I 0 z -i ::J: m '- 0 OJ m >< \'C m :;;o WE INVITE YOU TO PREVIEW THE EXCLUSIVE COL· LECTION OF CRABTREE AND EVELYN SOAPS, TOILETRIES, AND COMESTIBLES FROM SWITZER- LAND, AND I'RANCE, ENGLAND AND GERMANY NOW AVAILABU: AT CENTER CITY PLAZA. Crabtree & Evelyn LONDON 433 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. (518) 393-0317 10:00 am-5:30pm Mon.-Sat., Thurs. Eve. to'9 pm Closed SUndays 4/..ron • Boston •' (har/eston, S,C. • Ccmcord, CA. • Coral Gables - Costa \1esa • (irmse Point • Houston • l.ake Gene~·a • Miami • New York \orth I.J.il/e.~ • Palo .4/to • Pr01·incetown • Rochester • Toronto Tj·stm 's Comer, \\1lJ. • I.J.ashington, D. C. • Westwood -MEET NEW PEOPLE-HELP OTHERS- lnfonnation on Volunteerism Comes to Union -BEGINNING OCT. 29- 3 p.m.-5 P·~· in STUDENT AFFAIRS OFFICE I ·$: )> ;;t:: m < )> r c )> OJ r m () 0 z -i m Just stop by or call 6061 for a personal ap- )>' z then n pointment with a Representative from -i m Human Services Planning Council. fl I AIRLINE JOBS-FREE INFO' Nationwide Write Airline Placement Bureau 4208 l98th SW No. 101 Lynnwood, 'f!A 98036 Enclose a self-addressed stamped large envelope of the Sculptor Steiner.\ sweet natured elderly eccentric who suggests all three of them start a new life in America. The . adventures of these three contemporary pilgrims as they ·settle into what they believe is the American way of life are both bleak and funny. The performances · of the three characters are extraordinarily compelling. They are touching, improbable heroes in this haunting film about un- dermined hope, tenaciausness and spiritual exile. . Stroszek, described by Herzog as a ballad, is the ta:le of three misfits who set o1:1t from Berlin to find El Dorado in Northern Wisconsin. There is Stroszek, the Berlin street m1:1sician, just released from prison, whom life keeps kicking in the shins, but who remains. cheerfully un\ disturbed by it aU. There is Eva, a buxom but non~too-bright Berlin streetwalker, who moved in with Stroszek and there is the upstairs neighbor, a fragile, Skellar Specials 10-30.-80 Ladies French Nite French Colembard 04oz.) $1.00 10-3'1-80 Attitude ReadJustment 4-7 (Pabst) .25draft $1.00 pitcher 11-4'-80 Election Day Special .25 draft $1.00 pitcher CGer:my) Campus Events: Fri., Oct. 31 Hockey, Union vs, Colgate ADPhi All-Campus Party Film \Kramer vs. Kramer\ Sat., Nov. 1 Rugby Game FootbaH Game Stress Workshop c-O Graduate Studies Nightclub· ZBT Band Party Mon., Nov. 3 8 p.m., Achilles 'Rink 9 p.m., Chapter House 8, 10 p.m., SS 016 1 p.m., Library Field 1 p.m., Alexander Field 8-5 p.m., Strauss Lounge 9p.m.-2a.m.,Aiumni Gym 9 p.m., Davidson North Oriental Art Exhibition 10 a_m,-5 p.m., Strauss Lounge Tues., Nov. 4 Politicai.Forum Party Minerva Film Series: 9 p.m., Strauss Lounge \Stroszek\ . Phonathon 7:30-9:30 p.m., SS 016 5-10 p.m., Banquet Room Wed., Nov. 5 Pho_nathon Film \Dirty Harry'' 5-10 p.m., Banquet Room 8, 10 p.m., SS 016 -----~---------Coupon---.:...~--\-----~ I -· 1 1 Silver Shears :. c 0 a.. :::l 8 Unisex Salon 374 EASTERN AVE. SCHENECTADY $2.00 Qff on any Haircut Offer expires Nov. 1 • Call for appointment 372-7311 I I c 0 a.. ::J 0 u I I I I L----------- Coupon------------J CONSIDERING AN MBA? An admission representative from Vanderbilt University will be on campus !·JED. , NOVH~BER 5 to meet with men and women interested in management careers. Please contact: PLACEMENT & CAREER SERVICES for more details and to sign up for a student information session. Alls~dents, regardless of undergraduate maJor, are ~VANDERBILT· - • - BUL Pol holdi.J PAR1 Nov. electi fun at be lol TV's. raffle at9:0 are ir Put they E rate Me as lmkec increc 40 yr. The Emba No, .i1 ten de Sllilda spoke Surge1 Econt~ were· taken. The1 every 12:30 enjoy lunch wine. I an the fir Colloq1 provid to hea1 our c1 engagE Tuesdc David Profes: Anciei Chairn Classic Histori Thur (co-spc Colloqt Richar of Mec \EngiiJ Tuest Kaplan Sociol< Commt Factor: Allie 016 at • 4:00. Biolo1 helpisc Tuesda from 7:' Room ( office). c FILMS Nove Public \Battle on the violenc1 1973 elE shown Libr'ar Avenul fonnati LECTU Octo I College lecture Phenon be pre Preside Horror' Club ar p.m. in· Campu formati

BULLETIN .S.OARD Political Forum will be holding AN ELECTION NIGHT PARTY in Strauss Lounge on Nov. 4th.. Come· watch the election retlirns and have lots of fun at the same time. There will be lots of beer, munchies and TV's. We Will also be having a raffle and prize. The fun starts at 9:00. All students and faculty are invited!! .;......_---\\\'--------~--- Public Hea'lth officials say they are concerned .because the rate of Rubella (German Measles), which has been linked to birth · defects, has increased among those in the 20- 40 yr. old age group. ' The Union College Embalming Club is not dead. No, .in .fact, another well at- tended meeting was held Sunday 10-26 when Dr. E. Borer spoke on the subject of Heart Surgery In The Home As An Economy Measure. No dues were paid. No attendance was taken. No one left dissatisfied. There will be a Fench table every Tuesday at the Pub from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. Come and enjoy French conversation and lunch and peut-etre, a glass of wine. · I am delighted to announce the first annual Union Faculty Colloquium, a series which provides us with an opportunity to hear formal presentations of our colleagues' work and to engage in a discussion of it: Tuesday, November 18, 1980. David :Reece, Frank Bailey Professor of Greek, Latin and Ancient Languages and Chairman of the Department of Classics ... \Some Problems of a Historian of Imperial Rome.'' Thursday, January Z2, 1981 (co-sponsored with- IAM ... EAS Colloquium) the speaker will be Richard Shanebrook, Professor of Mechanical Engiileering-- \Engineering a Better Heart.\ Tuesd~y, April 21, 1981-Ilene Kaplan, Assistant Professor of Sociology--\Family Life and Community Planning: Social Factors of the Design Process.'' All lectures in Social Science 016 at 4:30. Coffee and Tea at 4:00. Biology Majors-Don't forget help is available if needed every Tuesday and Thursday night from 7 :00 until 9: 00 in the Ryon Room (Across from Dr. Roth's office). Upperclassmen please Area Calendar FILMS November 6--The Albany Public Library will p~esent the \Battle of Chile\ which fo~uses on the escalation of right-wing violence following the March · 1973 elections. The film will be shown at 8 p.m. in the Main Libr\ary 161 Washington Avenue. For further in- formation, call 449-3380. LECTURE October 31--The Junior College of Albany will present a lecture entitled \Cult Phenomena.\ The lecture will be presented by Hal Pero, President of the \Rocky Horror\ Motion Picture Fan Club and will take place at 1 p.m. in the New Seminar Room, Campus Center. For· in- formation, call 270-2344. · CONOORDIENSIS~ October 30~ 1980 classifieos check schedule for November. Seniors, Juniers and Sophomores from all majors are invited to hear about Union's legislative internship program for winter and spring terms, ''Legislative Obser- vers,\ PS 76-78. The meeting is to take place at 4: 15 on Thur- . sday, October 30 in Social Sciences 113. Attention French Speaking Students and Professors. There will be a table in the Pub, this Tuesday reserved .for those who would like to converse in French. So,. for thoS'e who would like to practice their French, anQ. meet some other French speaking people, in a relaxed atmosphere the French Lunch Table is for you. 12:30 PM, and ·wine will be provided. ATTENTION: There is a tutorial session scheduled Sundays at 8:00-9:00 p.m. and Wednesday at 8:00-9:00 p.m. for those needing help in · Introductory Economics courses. These sessions will be held in Lo:wer Hale Hoose. We meet every Thursday at 12:30 in the Pub for lunch and conversation. No matter how elementary your knowledge of German is, come and speak, come and listen. · Applications are now being accepted for the spring term in Schwabisclt-HaU, Germany. Students must fulfill a prereausite in German, Ger- man 10 and 11 for Track I and · · ·German 133 for Track II or their equivalents. Professor Kellenter will be the Union College Director in Residence. Students interested in this term should come to the Terms Abroad Office, Humanities 211 for application blanks and in- formation. Sunday, November2, Campus Ministry Mass: Rev. David Berberian Marriage Tri'bunal, - Albany. The 1981 GA,RNET, the Union College Yearbook, is now taking . orders in Carnegie frem noon to 4:30 p.m. The price is $10 for seniors and $13 for all others. So, come to Carnegie, order a copy, and let Garner preserve your memories of your years at good old Union! ! Attention Seaiors . . . IBM Armonk will be recruiting on campus on November 13-for any major for computer Programming. Knowledge of a language helpful but no_t necessary. \'SIGN-UP ON ·. NOVEMBER 3 at 10:30 A.M. DATA COMMUNICATION, INC. 425 Broad Hollow Road,. Melville, L.I., N.Y. is interested in enlarging their staff of Engineering Technical Writers. To be considered for these positions, an applicant must have a BSEE or equivalent degree, a thorough un- derstanding of the basics of digital electronics, and a facility with the written English language. If a student · is in- tereste<J, please call Gerard Cardillo, Operations Mgr. at (516) 293-5800. HEY-The Rugby Team will be playing its last game this Saturday at 1 :00 p.m. on . Library Field. Free beer and blood~Be there-Get your rocks off- FOR SALE For Sale: Girls high leather boots, Size 7, Only worn a few How fast Page 9 times. Elly Pratico may be reached in the Personnel · Department, Silliman Hall or by calling 6137. PERSONALS Paul-Thanks for the support. There is a lot of love in you. I'm glad-RIM. We love you Tamie-L&J To all you inconsiderate people in the Library basement- -we're sorry but we're going to have to enforce stricter silence rules-Love E and K Allah-We PhD's have got to stick together!! Your main Disciple D.H.-Darnn glad you made it. Hope it goes well. Love Bert Margo-You're one hell of a woman-Your secret admirer. can a cken go? ·' (Iuick as you can say Super Chicken. the Hale store for folks on the go. \II prk<·~ dfl'din· thru \owrphrr 9. JWm. SUJl<•r chicken. II;,Jt.lnck filld. I )eli item~ an~ donuts al\ailuhk u(.our \an\ runk<'n stun· onlr. 1 lpcn li a.m. thru mit.lnilolht- i days a week. ..

P~ge 10 6port ·sheila O'Donnell make.s the serve IN PRACTICE FOR ... Cross Country November 1--New York States Volleyball November 1--NIAC Tournament November 4--Russell Sage, Oneonta November 14--New York States 7:00H OONOOR!JIENSIS, D_ctober 30, 1980 ' Spikers Take lnvy ritle By COREY LEWKOWICZ The Union College women's volleyball team captured the charnpionship this . _ past weekend at the New England Invitational Tournament at Wheaton College. Union faced only on~ defeat in a well played group of matches on their way to taking the tournament title. Union slid into the lead during the lastgameof tltematch, and managed to edgeth!l scoreup t() 14-8. Union faced some dif- ficulty in getting the fifteenth point,. but the DlltchwGrnen pulled through and captu.red the title. Barta felt that overall, Union played quite well. She went so· far as to say that ·this was the best they had played all seasGn, and that everything \just clicked\ for her team. The spikers went through the tournament with a 4-1 record. Senior Sheila O'Donnell earned special honors at the tournament,' as she was one .of six people chosen ~~r the all tournament team. She .played extremely well, although Barta is quick to note that the entire team played well. Although this tournament will not count towards the state record, it will give the Dutchwomen the self confidence they deserve. The spikers currently have a record of 11-3, and based on past performance, they should do well in the States. Union travels to the NIAC tournament at Mt. Holyoke on November 1, before hosting Russell Sage and Oneonta on November 4. This will be their last game before heading to the States on Nov. 14th. · On Friday, Nov. 24th, Union first fourid themselves up against a strong Bates team, and, lost the first game, 9-15. They soon recovered, and won the match by taking the next two games, 15-7 and 15-5. Union then played Wheaton, and beat the hosting team, 15•11 and 15-4. ..Coach Lynn Barta played Amy Hinshaw as the_middle hitter, a position uncommon to her; Barta commented that-Hinshaw did a ·\super job.'' Another major .position change during this game included moving Alicia Grandlund from the middle position to Lynn X-Country, Ends LeBlanc's position of right :ay TRISH MO.RIAR1'Y front, to help with blocking maneuvers. , This p8'st Saturday,. the Union spent the whole time Women's Cross-Country Team Staurday playing Wellesley, a competed ·in their final race of team that Coach Barta the year, · the Albany described as \tall but in· Invitational. 'l1his meet was the consistent. Although Union lost largest the women ran in, with .the first match to them, the 34 schools represented, 21 Dutch women soon rose up to the fielding full teams, and ap- challenge and showed their true proximately 16() runners abilities. Heading into the present. The large number of finals, bothUnion and Wellesley runners, as well as inclement had one loss; ironically, the loss weather, proved difficult -ob- faced by Union was to stacles for Union's women. Eut Wellesely. Coach Barta ex- • they pulled through,. finishing plained this loss by weak serve 11th overall, beating such reception and serving on the schools as Albi;~ny State and part of the Dutch wom.en. In the Syracuse. first game of the final match, Led by Joan O'Connor (28th) Union was down, and h~d to and Polly Wheeler (44th), the hustle to defeat Wellesl~y. team was able to capture 78th, with Colleen Morris l05th, Trish Moriarty i13th, Laura Kronk 126th, Audrey Lewchik and Donna Morris, 130th. Men's team member Denny Contois said, \Those women sure can move their feet. It looked like they were dancing.\ Men's captain Jack Conner congratulated the women on their performance, saying, \I'm sure glad you all got out of the kitchens and ran.\ The team wishes to thank those who ~upported them throughout their season, especially Coaches Bick and Barbanel, and hopes to convert more of the campus community · into \cross-country groupies\ for next fall. more music for ·l.ess • • • Grateful Dead WORKINGMAN'S DEAD Conta1ns Uncie Johns Band Casey Jo~s New Speedway Boog•e Cumberland Blues UITLEFEAT Dixie Chiclwn Includes TwoTmlns Roll Urn Ea&yOn Your'Mly Down Fat Man In The Bathtuh EAGLES Indudes the Hits Fire and Rain CountryRoad ' Sunny Skies Blossom these albums ~r tapes $2.99 SCHENECTADY 453 State Sf. 377-2802 . \-. ~ ... ~ .. '\ ~ ... _..,~··.-~~.· --~·~\-·_.-._ .. - ... ( ALBANY 211 Central Ave 434..0085 FOUR LOCATIONS SARATOGA 446 Broadway 584-8884 SALE ENDS SUNDAY 11/2 GLENS F AI:LS 234 Glenn St. 798-6055 HOURS Mon.-Fri. 1 0-9 Sat. 10·6, Sun. 12-5 ¥ r. • ' ' ... ~ • • .. • ,. .- ~ .-: • .., .. -~ , • •• • • -• .., • • • ... ·~·...,.. r .- -. .: • ~· ... ,. .•.• ~ .. • •· • ~ .. . ~ •· ~.. .... . . A Tl Athl Butl: Won Butt wim also the< tearr capt< last , Th leadi hock, six < strm Dutci in th In was stick~ first 1 PotsG AV By One and J sports hocke In a· Bouch Dave: penalt millio1 was fi due t< avoid 1 key w and Tl forme1 Clev Joe C known accom little 1 sonalit had a called one oft ever t bone au beer w nose, e the ha telling native an im cowbo} feet in Studi contim results. brass J game Steeler their w Super Angele~ since J< Evert, ranking mid-20': Maur became •Marine! Darrel. is no in concern against !'lanage tntervic \Earth Ad We ne1 ~ 9( s•

I ed ta re tis mt rill elf he •rd 1St do c Ill tg ill ir te >h lk ld 's is m lk m 11, td rt ty ·\ I OONCORDIENSIS, October 30, 1980 Page 11 Athlete of the Week This week's Budweiser Athlete of the Week is senior Buthaina Shukri, captain of the Women's Field Hockey Team. Buthaina is a four year letter winner in field hockey and she also excels in lacrosse. She was the captain of the .field hockey team this fall and she was captain of the lacrosse team last spring. This year, Buthaina was the leading scorer for the 8-3-1 field hockey team with six goals and six assists. She was very in- strumental in the women Dutchmen being seeded fourth in the state tournament. In the tournament, Buthaina was in on every goal the stickers scored. Union won the first game, 2-{), on Friday over Potsdam State advancing them to the semi-finals. Buthaina scored the winning, goal and assisted on the insurance goal. In the semi-final game Shukri · assisted on the lone Union .goal as they lost 2-1. Buthaina ended her career in the consolation game with a sterling one goal and two assist performance. Coach Marty Morrison states that \Buthaina is the best field hockey player that Union has ever had ski'll-wise'' and Coach Morrison also believes that \Buthaina could definitely play for a Division I . .field hockey team.\ Ceach Morrison states that \Buthaina is an extremely quiet person but a very good leader both on andoffthe field.\ Buthaina's teammates also praise her skill and desire. They say that \she plays sideline to A View from the Stands: Sports Shorts By DOUG SILVERSTEIN One of the most important and ironical court cases in sports history involves former hockey player Henry Boucha. In a game January 4, 1975, Boucha was hit by Boston Bruin Dave Forbes as the two left the penalty box, Boucha filed a 3.5 million dollar lawsuit which was finally settled after delays due to the league's desire .to avoid using the testimony of two· key witnesses, Marcel Dionne and Thommie Bergmahn, both former teammates of Boucha. Cleveland Indian outfielder Joe Charboneau, who was known for his heroic rookie accomplislunents, has shed a little light on his unique p..er- sonality. The dynamic Indian had a song named after him called \Go Go, Charboneau\ one of the biggest punk rock hits ever to hit Cleveland. Char- boneau has been known to drink beer with a straw through his nose, experience a stabbing at the hands of a Bic pen after telling a Mexican he WM . .a native Californian, and owning an incredible collection of cowboy hats that exceed three feet in length. Studies on sex in sports continues to draw mixed results. The Pittsburgh Steeler brass favor the idea of pre- game sex and allowed the Steeler players to sleep with their wives before the Steeler's Super Bowl victory over Los Angeles in January. However, since John Lloyd married Chris Evert, his international tennis ranking has fallen from the mid-20's to above 200. Maury Wills, who recently· became manager: of the Seattle · Mariners following the firing of Darrel Johnson,. said that there is no indication as far as he's concerned of racial prejudice against prospective black managers in baseball. In an interview on Lou Erwin's \Earth News\ Wills expressed the hope that his hiring may turn around any prejudice that does exist.· San Diego placekicker Rolf Nenirschke won a competitive battle with Mike Wo()dfor a spot on the Charger team, but is no stranger to uphill battles. Benirschke suffered a rare colon disease and was very close to losing his life when his weight decreased to 125 pounds. When he did regain a little strength, .he appeared at a Charger home game and was the San Diego representative as team captain. L()uie Keleher, Charger lineman, literally carried Benirschke off the field. After a request was made to the home crowd· for blood con- tributions for Benirschke, 1800 fans responded by donating about 70 pints ()f blood for Benirschke's cause. This year, Benirschke has been in a fight for the league lead in scoring. The J.ones Review on the Jets now has Lam .Jones (Jolmny), due to his homet()wn of Lam- pasis, Texas, .and Cam Jones (Bobby), named because of his experise in the garage, Ham Jones (from Hallllin Texas) and Jam Jones are two college players who may too eventually join the I ones Review ... Tony Dorsett has the opportunity this year to become the first player in NFL history to gain 1,000 yards in each of his first 4 seasons ... The best athlete of the century as voted by a French newspaper was Pele, with Ali no. 4, Ruth no. 11, and Pete Rose included in the top 100. Elliot Maddox failed to make the top 100 , . • As was ... previously written, the presidential election can be easily predicted from the Wodd Series. In the last seven, elec- tions corresponding to a World Series year, each · time a National t'eam won the Series, a Democrat took the election. · Looks like Jimmy Carter, if the theory holds. Addr~ssers wante,d immediately! Work at home .. no experience necessary - excellent payl Write: National Service 9041 . Ma.nsfield Suite 2004 Shreveport, Louisiana 71118 sideline and never gives up/' Her teammates also say that if they feel tired they look at Buthaina and they are inspired by her ,drive and energy. Buthaina is a senior from Newton Centre, Ma-ss~. where .she attended Newton South · High School. She was an ex• cellent high .school athlete as well as a junior high school ,gymnast. Now that the field hockey season is over, we woul~ like to wish Buthaina the best of luck on the lacrosse field. ' Athlete ot the Week Butbaina Shukri - O.T.: Song Remains the Same By DAVE RUDEN We are now eight weeks into the present football season and New York's finest, the Giants and the Jets, have a combined record of tpree wins and thir- teen losses. While the reasons for these dismal records differ, the song remains the same: New York football teams are again headed for losing seasons. In the Meadowlands, faithful fans are growing accustomed to watching/a pathetic offense (the usual run-run-pass-kick) only tnis time it is coupled with a shalty defense. In the past the Giants defense would usually keep the team in a game, but not this year. The blame for this must go to Coach Ray Perkins. He has taken a solid defense built up by Bill Arnsparger and J()hn McVay (the last two Giant coaches) and has allowed it to deteriorate. Injuries have been a factor, but Perkins has not patched up a once promising secondary nor has he built up any depth on the defensive line. He has traded away some talented players (John Men- denhall and Ray Rhodes) who are helping other teams. His attention has been on the of- fense and here he has done absolutely nothing. The Giants game is worse than it used to be if that is possible. Billy Taylor is an adequate running back, but behind him we have Scott Laidloaw and Larry Heater. At fullback we are blessed with castoff Bo Matthews who- does his best blocking on the food Ii_ne. Part of the running problem is due to an offensive line that has problems opening up any holes. Perkins has not done anything to strengthen this area, usually seeking to patch together a line each week. Other Football Preview Continued from page 12 offense of the Panthers forces Union to play a wait and see defense in an attempt to hopefully force a mistake that will create the break that Union has not been able to get this year. The Dutchmen offense may baffle some because it has gained more yards, more first downs, and more offensive plays than the opponent. The inability to score points (41 in 5 games and none during the second or third . periods) is , directly a result of nwnerous Union penalties and turnovers. Union's offensive drawbacks will hopefully eliminate themselves as the team becomes better acquainted with the offensive system of Coach Joe Wirth and more familiar with each other. Quarterback Dana Johnston is expected to return to the Dutchmen offense this week. He will be joined by this year's Division III find, halfback Bill Huttner, who has .gained 397 yards rushing for a 4.4 average. He has given Dutchmen fans and coaches some incredible shows but still has not been utilized as a pass receiver enough this year. Johnston again looks towards Henry Wright as a primary receiver, but the emergency of Walt Fredericks at the other end is an added benefit. One play that Coach Wirth seems to be using· with more frequency each week is the quick-out to Wright, typically the kind of play that fails miserably or is a game breaker. Union has lacked the big play that op- • posing offenses have taken advantage of. Union faces a small but very quick Panther defensive lille anchored by veteran nose guard John Underwood. The linebacker crew, good but not as good as the 1979 squad, is headed by Bill Genovese. The defensive backfield was one of Coach Heine·ken's biggest concerns during the pre-season, however, he has seen quicker development there than possibly any other area. Peter Price, the backbone of the back- field crew after intercepting seven passes during the 1979 season, has not been as for- tunate this year though he continues to supply quality support on pass defense. This is the only real vulnerable region for Union to exploit since the rest of the crew on defense is more e·stablished and ex- perienced. It is simple logic, Union must exploit the Panther weaknesses, as few as there are. The Panthers will un- doubtedly key on Huttner, although this did little benefit for Hofstra and Williams. A win thiS week for the Dutch· nien gives them a viable chance at a 4-4 season. A victory for the Panthers guarantees another winning season for Middlebury. This is by no means a giveaway, it is an uphill climb for the Dutchmen. The clue to this game is Union;s ability to execute in the second half. So far, the Dutchmen have scored but two touchdowns during the second half of their contests this year. This is the best team Union will play this year and guaranteed is the fact that the Dutchmen sorely want to win this one. than Earnest Gray the wide receivers are more castoffs. Phil Sinuns has great potential, but it will never be realized unless Perkins finds him a supporting crew. The Giants have to be thankful for punter Dave Jennings; their best of- fensive weapon. He is the best in the league. The Jets problem was created by the media. Draft Johnny \Lam\ Jones and go to the playoffs and win the Super Bowl. Someone forgot to mention to Jet fans that Jones cannot play defense. While the Jets are probably not as bad as their 1-6 record indicates, they are no better than a .500 team. Part of the offensive problem has been the injuries to Wesley- Walker. Once he returns op- posing teams secondaries will ·not be able to double team Jones and this will open up the passing game. This is needed to 1 establish a ground game. Coach Walt Michaels needs help in all aspects on defense. There is no pass rush to speak of and opposing offenses can run at will. The linebackers are good, but the secondary is a sieve. Opposing teams have amassed great sums of yardage through the air. The Jets will have to completely rebuild their defense if playoff talk is to be taken seriously. These problems in New York are not new. In fact they are each about a decade old. If real excitement is to be stirred up in the Meadowlands, Ray Perkins is going to have to do a much better job in assessing talent. Some resemblence of a defense will have to be built if playoff talk is to be heard from Shea Stadium. In the meantime the song remains the same. Block - U Meeting Thursday night at 7:30 Block-U Room

-. - Page 12 OONOORDIENSIS, October 30, 1980 Hope .for ECAC Bid: Booters Split By MIKE CANNING SPORTS HAPPENINGS - Octe 30-Nov. 6 It was an up and down week for the Union soccer team. Wednesday's game against Division I opponent Colgate resulted in a come-from-behind 4-3 overtime victory. The win stretched Union's winning streak to four games. In their attempt for a fifth straight win, the Dutchmen travelled the long distance to St. Lawrence, only to come away with a 4·1 pasting. Against Colgate, the Dut- chmen had to come back from a 2-1 deficit with less than 15 minutes remaining in the game. , Playing with only ten men (Dave Shendan had been eiected from the game for fighting), Union was not only able to hold off the Colgate offense, but to tie the game up and send it into overtime. Brian Shea received a pass from Bernie Zeifang and deflected a shot into the goal, tying the game at 2-2. In overtime, the Dutchmen drew first blood. Zeifang followed up a rebound of his own shot o~f of Middlebury: the sprawled Colgate goalie, and after waiting for what seemed forever for the ball to r land, headed it into the goal. Tim Agar added an insurance score to give Union its fourth goal. It proved to be the deciding goal, as Colgate scored in the last minute for the finalS. 4 margin. Senior Captain John Krum accounted for Union's itfttialtally with his first career goal. Union's offensive machine, which had scored 20 goals in its four-game winning streak, was stuck in low gear by the shores of the St. Lawrence Seaway. The Dutchmen controlled the game for the first fifteen minutes of the game but an impressive St. Lawrence goa~e was able to turn away aU of the Union shots. Then lightening struck again and again and &gain. St. Lawrence scored on their first four shots. The Dutchmen's long trudge to St. Lawrence was to be all for naught. Only a Dave Sheudan Football Preview By DOUG SILVERSTEIN - standing runners in the persons of wingback Jody O'Donnel and halfbacks John Brennan and Nark Conroy, all of whom have gained over 300 yards on the ground this year. What is- unique about the Middlebury offense is the uncanny ability of Coach Heine ken to use most of his players in various roles. One may call the offense role oriented. Two of Caputi's best receivers are Beau Coach and Ted Virtue. The latter enjoyed ari excellent game against Colby a few weeks ago which saw the split end catch 9 passes for 182 yards and a touchdown. The problems in the Middlebury offense are basically in the offensive line which is relatively inexperienced as compared to the rest of the ID offense. There is no real threat E at tight end and one tackle and ~ guard are newcomers to the c starting lint!up. %! How the Dutchmen will ~ defend against Middlebury is a (/) very interesting question. The £ second-half score preventing Union from a shutout. Union was able to outs hoot St. Lawrence 31-16, but was unable to climbbut of the four-goal hole they had.fallen into. Chances for a berth in the NCAA tour- nament were drastically reduced with the disappointing performance. Still, strong showing against Oneonta and Rochester, Union's next op- ponents, should enable the Dutchmen to qualify for a third consecutive post season tour- nament. I· Varsit,y Football Varsity Soccer Cross Country Nov. 1 vs. Middlebury l :30 Nov. l vs. Rochester 11 :00 Nov. 5 vs. Mo!rist 2:30 Nov. 1 NY States, at Fredonia Gridders Bow in. Downpour By ED LYNCH · Although Saturday's loss to the Ephman of Williams did not come as a total surprise it was noneth,eless a major di,sap- pointment in what has been a terribly frustrating year for the Dutchmen. The 14-0 set back leaves the Dutchmen with a dismal 1-4 record and serves as a reminder that dreams and aspirations of late August have been all but dashed. This realization is particularly difficult to accept after wat- ching Saturday's battle in the torrential downpour at Williamstown. The Dutchmen actually played rather well. The defense was superb in holding the Ephmen to a mere 45 yards on 45 carries. The offensive line looked strong in opening holes for Billy Huttner who sloshed his way to 183 of Unions 154 yards. The unit however could have afforded QB Steve Nowak more time in the pocket. Nowak who Williams struck early, when halfback Jay Wheatley hauled in a pass at the Union 24 setting up Tom Casey's touchdown reception 3 plays later. Early in the 2nd period Union's Tom Glynn took a bad snap and subsequently dropped the wet football and bad his punt blocked at the Union 19. Williams QB John Lawler picked up 10 on a keeper and Jay Wheatley drove across for the Ephmen's second score of the day. Union's only serious bid came early when the Garnet found themselves knocking on the door at the Williams four yard line. Nowak rolled to his left. Unable to run, he flipped to Billy Huttner who was swinging out of the backfield. Unfortunately Nowak did not see the Williams cornerback who was about to step in front ·Of Huttner to kill the Union drive. The differences in Saturday's game was the way that Dutchmen. Without the junior quarterback at toe helm, the offense has not been able to put ~ny p~ints on the bo.ard m their last seven penods. Nowak, who is a capable quarterback with a classic drop back style, bas not been as effective as the more mobile and experienced Johnston. It is Johnston's sprint out passing that best utilizes Henry Wright and at the same time opens up the running games of Huttner, Marino, Anderson and McMorrow. Next .Saturday, Union will face another tough opponent when Middlebury comes rolling down from Vermont. However, Joe Wirth's biggest challenge will not be in defeating the Panthers but in maintaining his team's fading confidence and enthusiasm. A lesser club would write the season off. With quality people like Audino, Leff, Egan, Polumba, Wilbur and No cliches can be used to describe the Dutchmen eleven. Last week' s 14..() defeat at the hands of Williams was not unexpected, nevertheless it was a heartbreaking loss. A costly turnover deep in William's territory accompanied by the excellent execution by Williams quarterback John Lawler prevented what might have been a Union victory. Do not misunderstand the situation, the Dutchmen rightly lost the contest, but one must commend the shutout ball the defense played in the second half. Once again, the outstanding in· dividual effort by halfback Bill Huttner was nullified by the inability of the rest of the of· fense to mount any consistent support throughout the game. This week's clash against Middlebury, a team which retains most of last year's ex- cellent squad, represents a clash between one of the most successful Division III teams of the 1970's, Middlebury, against a Union team that has suffered from virtual obscurity during the previous decade. However, both teams are similar in that they are looking towards the 80's with optimism and en· thusiasm. This week the at- tacking Panthers bring their 4- 1-1 record to Alexander-Field against the revengeful 1-4 Dutchmen; three down linemen led by _g ,, Mark Palomba, and the outside _g linemen lead by Dan Leff, have a. played well as a unit. They will have a difficult task in con- taining the powerful Panther running game. The linebackers may be able to roam a little· more than usual since Caputi prefers to throw to his outside receivers than his backs. The defensive line may benefit from running frequent stunts in addition to the possibility of frequent linebacker blitzes. Middlebury can easily counter Middlebury coach Michael G. Heineken boasts a Wing- T of- fense that is averaging around 400 total yards per game. More impressive• though, is the balance that the Panters por· tray between their passing and rushing games. Senior quar- terback Dave Caputi emerged from a successful and com- petetive pre-season to grab the starting spot and has since shown good reason for Coach Heineken's decision to hand him the job. Caputi has completed nearly 45 percent of his passes almost equaling last years total passing yardage, although his record indicates more in- terceptions than touch-down passes. Middlebury's Wing-T offense features .. three out- both of these tactics by running an occassional draw play. The play of George Oberstadt at cornerback has shown signs of improvement during the past few weeks despite what the statistics show. He will be tested by the swift outside Panther receivers. The Pan- thers run twice as much as they pass, however, the ability of the receivers to shake the defense puts added pressure on safety John Scotto. Statistically, Middlebury has outscored their opponent by a 2: 1 margin while also accummulating nwnerous first downs. The ball control Continued on page 11 was filling in for ailing Dana Johnston was unable to establish any passing attack whatsoever. Although the· in- clement weather conditions had much to do with Union's of- fensive impotence, the several fumbles and numerous bad center-QB exchanges were inexcusable and very costly. Scott Johnston kicks off Williams was able to avoid mistakes. The Ephmen did not 'fumble which is rather amazing considering the adverse elements. Union's inability to establish a con- sistentoffensive attack was also a factor in the loss. The absence of Dana John· ston has taken its toll on the Come Watch Wright, the Dutchmen will hang - tough until the very end. They have the players to .Peat Mid- dlebury if they are able to pull themselves up- by their boot- straps both mentally and ..physically. Middlebury will have a long ride down and the Dutchmen will have one helluva Saturday night. _ The Skating Dutchmen Spook Colgate ~um:versity In a Pre-Season Benefit Hockey Game l0-31-80 at 8:00p.m. An Tickets are General Admission -$2.00 General Public $1.00 with UC. I D All proceeds to benefit U.C. Block U M.V.H.A., A.i=.S.C., S.Y.H.A. Goblin Special First 200 U.C. Students , Dressed in Halloween Attire will Receive a 25c coupon off on any Mixed Drink after the Game at th.e Dutch Hollow Pub - - I T MoJ the Stu' me1 dis< wei Ph~ Wol Vie· \ resE abo exp sen \Hi test corr. dar Gui reg! wor of r1 sam spri ina ''1 sonr cont rela cap~ stat• men Boa1 Hop4 and deci mit a eithE A com mon fin a mon' a fix Loyc club: musl mak, DavE It, Stude want The frate hoste were lot o said · to € Coun what time, .over AJ i thept relig exar PresE ask in

