ISSe, in- ield, 1ted, 1ary ions 1 be The , for size use ~ces The to 1t of lace fall >aly reen iing in- and :une ~.for ·.the ·ack the that tion in oot· inst on tase turf · of 1st 1 wil1 und tase per- for the ; of ave 1 at tble .uld I by in in- ) the by 'erg ike laiD ark and !Ch, ard me ter. nal 10. its :tst. S~­ cA FitzHugh Lud~g~~ Section Inside <t / • \!.· College 1877 Vol. 110, No. 22 Schenectady, New York Thursday, May 7, 1981 De,an Submits Resignation· It is with regret that I am aimouncing the resignation of Robert H. Kellett from his positionasDean of Students. He will b~ going to Columbus, Georgia to. pursue personal business interests located there. Dul\ing his tenure at Union he has proved to be a very ef· .fective · Dean of Students and was responsible for the development of a solid Student Affairs program. I will make an early an· nouncement about procedures for Dean Kellett's replacement and any interim measures that might be· necessary. President Morris By PAUL GROSSMAN Ul 't'l children, he _felt, were at just the right age so that a move of this natlU'e woUld be most beneficial to their social and educational development. ·Dean Kellett regarded his resignation as \a long term change in lifestyle.'' \I like to fish, I like to golf,\ responded the Dean. The nature of the job of Dean of Students presents many obstacles for any individUal to Last Friday, May 1, Dean of :U Students Robert Kellett \5 resigned his position here at iE Union. The resignation was ·~ accepted by President Morris. ID arrived at Union. There were problems in food service, in housing, and with many ·of the facilities that students use on campus. Many of_ these problems still exist, but most have been dealt with to one degree or another since Dean Kellett arrived here. An example that the Dean cited was that when he arrived here, only twenty-five. up- Dean Kellett's. resignation 5 evoked a variety of responses >-- from many members of the ~­ college community. Students 'S were surprised, happy, and '5.. • unsure about who may replace him. Faculty were generally unsure as of Friday whether the Dean had, in fact, resigned or Robert H. Kellett, Dean of Students not. overcome. Many students have perclassmen signed up for the been critical of the Dean, meal plan at Hale House. The . believing him to be \out of problem that is being faced by toueh\ with the needs of the administration is how to ac- students. The nature of the job comodate the hirge number of prevents this in ma 0 y ways. students that are now taking The positionof Dean of Students meals at Hale. · had its origin -on campuses One of the solutions that is being considered in the loag range Policy and Planning Committee of the Board of Trustees is the building of an ·extension to Carnegie Hall. Financial and ather con- siderations have to be carefully examined before the idea can be set into any kind of motion, but the point is that it is the job of the Dean of Students to determine and evaluate the need for such changes that will affect the lives of the students pn campus. Similar to this is the need for renovation of the Nott Memorial, Alumni Gym, and many of the housing facilities on Dean Kellett did resign. He had \been thinking about it for a long time., fifteen years.\ His decision to leave Union was purely for pers9nal reasons. Dean Kellett cited the age of his children as being an important factor in his decision. Dean Kellett has wanted. to make a major change in the life of the Kelletts and felt that this was the opportune time to do so. His across the country in the volatne 1960's when students and administration were at odds in a way that shaped the era. As well as acting . . • Dean Kellett faced many important problems when he Students Lauded . Union honored outstanding students Saturday (May 2) at traditional Prize Day ceremonies on campus. More than 50 prizes recognizing student , achievement in academic, athletic, and per- sonal endeavors were awarded. Among the students honored Saturday was Janice A. Fischer of Teaneck, N.J., who was awarded the George H, Catlin Prize, given to a graduating senior deenned n1ost prorr.dsing for graduate study and eventual service in the field of college teaching .. Fischer, who com- pleted her undergraduate work in biology and chemistry in January, recently received- a National Science Foundation fellowship for predoctoral study in the field of molecular biology-. Of the nearly 3,500 ap- plications received for Natiunal Science Foundation fellowships this year, 450 awards were made nationwide. And of those 450, 33 were given for. study in molecular biology. The National Science foundation fellowships are the most competitive national awards given for predoctoral study. Fischer is currently a laboratory assistant for Henry M. Butzel, Jr., professor of biochemical genetics at Union. She will enter Harvard Graduate School in the fall. The George H. Catlin Prize was also awarded to Michael J. Rooks of Jamesville, N.Y., a senior-physics major. Mary Joann Mazur, an electrical engineering major from Burlington, N.J., received both the Frank Bailey Prize, given to the senior who has rendered the greatest service to the College in any field, and the Warner King Prize, presented to the senior who has con- tributed most to the traditions and ideals of the College. The Joseph Daggett Prize, a warded to a senior for exemplary conduct and character, was presented this y-ear to Nancy J. Gaglia~o, a biology and computer sc1ence major whose hometown is Greenlawn, N.Y. Gagliano also won the Lee and William Wrubel Memorial Pri~e, Continued on page 2 Actor Speaks on By SUE BLOOMBERG Robert Walden, after finishing his fourth seifson of \Lou Grant\ spoke at Union this past weekend. As an actor and occasional journalist, Walden .hoped to \give some insight into people, events and conditions.\ The success of the ''Lou Grant\ show, according to Walden, is a result of many factors. The characters and situations in the show become identifiable to many people. \Lou Grant\ has made it, Walden stated, \because it is a show more about bureaucracy than journalism and this has held the audience well because they deal with this everyday.\ Young people, who are trying to carve out their own identity, \identify well with the character, Rossi.'' Walden stated that he has gained \a sense of responsibility from the character\ and \developed affe.ction for this sometimes lonely and loveless role model.'' The character Rossi, has made Walden more aware of his own and societies values. · · Walden has, many values which are quite similar to Rossi's. He has rejected many - roles he feels are \overly • violent, malign women or give no insight for learning.\ Acting is not a recent trade for Robert Walden. In one of bis various ancedotes, Friday night, Walden relayed a story about his acting b~ck\groWld beginning at the age of four. In college he became involved in musicals, which led him to summer-stock and then off- I I I I I I ) . campus. Dean Kellett has had only the best interests of the students in mind when presenting these issues to the Board of Trustees. It is therefore easy to see why Dean Kellett might be con- sidered \out of touch\ with the students. He acted as he saw fit, given the responsibilities of his job. Dean Kellett was refused faculty position and this made things difficult for him. How could a non-faculty member argue with any real authority about the need for a specific lfuld of lecture room? How could an administrator un- derstand the problems . regarding course loads and the need for additional study space during mid-terms and finals? The teaeher-student relation- ship that can be considered the strength of Union College did not play a role in the interaction that Dean Kellett had with st~dents here. He was, as President Morris said, \a very effective Dean of Students,\ despite this laok of direct in- teraction with students. Dean Kellett always had the interests of the students at heart when he formulated what has proven to be an effective Student Affairs program. When asked about problems that he feels that he is leaving behind, Dean Kellett said, \Well I don't Continued on _page :2 Writing Broadway. Walden, as most other actors, was not an instant success, but was able to succeed after a few breaks in his career. Walden explains his recent involvement in journalism as a result of his insecurity as an actor portraying a journalist. Not only has he spoken at many high schools and colleges a bout Continued on page 2 )i ·' ' i: ... <ll \0 >- c 1.11 a:: ttl Ill :J >- .D

?age 2 OONOORDIENSIS, May 1, 1981 Kellett is Leaving Dean Kellett cited personal reasons as affecting. his decision to step down. Student Forum: ConUDued from page 1 think I'm leaving them (problems) behind, I think that the institution is faced with them ... The decisiQn of finding a replacement for De;,m Kellett's position rests in the hands of President Morris. As of yet, the President has not decided on the steps that he will take regarding Dean Kellett's replacement. He has indicated, however, that he will form a search committee that will be responsible for finding possible replacements for the vacant position. President Morris has not yet decided what exactly the characteristics are that he is looking for in a new Dean of Students. He did .say though that the position will be filled by an individual who will contribute in educational and intellectual as , Election Plans The Student For-um, at its Monday meeting, discussed the May 12 Student Forum elec· tions. Joe Christofaro, chair· man of the elections committee, explained the new guidelines that exist in conjunction with the new government system. The Student Mfairs Cowtcil unanimously passed its proposal for the stated policy on alcohol sale and consumption. on the Union College campus. The policy must he approved by President Morris before it will be fully implemented. Mike Andolina explained, however, that these guidelines will be implemented during-, the orientation week in 1981. The Inter Fraternity Council (IFC) has elected its' four positions for the 1981-82 school year: President: Dan Logue, Vice-president: Mike Rogers, Treasurer: Marc Ziskind, and Secretary: Duncan McKenzie. The Resident Life Committee informed the Forum of a proposal regarding \bad housing\ on campus. The student body will vote on the · proposal during Student Forum elections. Senior Gift to Aid Nott well as administrative ways .. While Dean Kellett!s resignation has been accepted, he will remain in bis post until the end of the academic year. No immediate replacement, even interim, bas. been suggested by the president. President Morris will be leaving the campus on business .for a few days and willtake the time to plan carefully hb immediate course of action. Dean Kellett has been seriously contemplating his resignation fQf many weeks and made this fact known to the President. It wa's on the President's suggestion that Dean Kellett resigned when he did. The Dean has just recently finalized basic living arrangements for him and his family in Georgia, and agreed that this was a good time to announce the decision. Dean Kellett is not certain exactly what it is ttlat he will be doing once he leaves Union. He has indicated that' whatever it is, it may not be in the college world. Said. Kellett of his position here, ''One of the strange things a bout doing the kinds of things iou do as Dean of students is that you get a lot of experience in a variety of things, you're in hotel services and food services, you're in . personel and employment Services; you've _got career advising and me:ntal health counseling services, you've got, laundromats, and booze _and restaurants; you get a little experience with all of that, so there's a whole variety of things that I might do.\ When asked if there was anythiJlg that he would like to .,.. . -· • state given the cirumstances surrounding. his resignation, . Dean Kellett stated, '''Not really. It's not like I'm leaving because there's some great philosophical difference bet- ween myself and the institution. I think that Union is a fine liberal arts college, I think that the students are highly motivated. What must be maintained is the balance between intellectual and academj.c development.\ Dean.. Kellett was quick to include accolades for the people that have ·helped and worked with hin1 While he was here, crediting them with many' things for which they might not have otherwise received credit. What Dean Kellett essentially stated was that the Office of the Dean of Students could not have been totaily filled by one in- dividual; indeed, the scope of the job confirms this fact. On the people who worked with him, Kellett said, ''they are going to remain here and continue to do a very capable job.\ · Dean Kellett is leaving behind a very admirable record. His Student Affairs. program has gone far towards improving student life here. Many of the misunderstandings that• resulted between Dean Kellett and tne students here were a result of the Administrative restrictions of the job. Dean Kellett was an integral part in, the process that brought about many of the important and necessary changes that affect students here at Union. He deserves thanks and best wishes from all of the members of the Union community. · Seniors can begin making contributions to this year's Senior Gift to the College next Monday, May 11, when the fund raising drive formally kicks off. Donations will be accepted for the remainder of the academic year by the Senior Gift Com- mittee. come from. Each incoming freshman pays this fee. Upon graduation, it is used to cover outstanding library fines and the like. Any remaining money is returned to the student. collected will be invested in an endowment fund. The interest earned from these investments will be available for work at the Nott. Eventually, according. to Handler, when the endowment becomes large enough, the principle will also be used. CE's Honored Gift money will be put in a fund for the restorati()n and preservation of the N ott Memorial. This cause was selected by the members of the senior class in a vote two weeks ago. The gift committee bas set a goal of $12,000 in contrlb11tions, according to chairman Dave Handler. \A lot of seniors will donate all or part of their ($100) matriculation fee,\ he said, to explain where the money will \Some people don't even remember that they paid a matric'ulation fee,\ Handler noted. \And the Senior Gift is a good place to put it.\ Contributions from all sources are encouraged, however. They don't have to be limited to the unused portion of matriculation fees. Next week, seniors can obtain · solicitation cards, in which they can enclose with their con- tribution from committee members, who will visit them. Last year's Senior Gift also went to restorin_g the Nott. As happened then, the money In Health Profession Studies: Minority Attrition Efforts to recruit mim>rity students into the health professions must be concerned not only with admitting students, but also with retaining them, according to 1Jnion College researchers Terry Weiner and Eugene S. Schneller. The retention of minorities in the professions will involve being al>le to identify those individuals most likely to complete their training, Weiner and Schneller say. Reporting in the April issue .of the American Journal of Public Health, Weiner and Schneller note that black students are less likely than 'their' white classmates to complete physician's assistant training programs. What is equally significant, they point o11t, is that traditional predict()rs of academic success may 11ot be relevant; i.e., the best prepared and most mature mi11ority students often failed to com- plete their professional education. Weiner, associate professor of sociology and chairman of the Union College Sociology Department, and Schneller, associate professor of ad- ministration and management and director of Union's Health Studies Center, recently completed research on the problems of attrition in health occupations. Data for their article on black attrition in physician's assistant training programs was gathered as part of the Physician's Assistant Career Study, sponsored by the U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. Schneller was the study's principal investigator. Weiner and Schneller report in the Journal article that whereas the vast majority of white males (88.7 percent) graduate from physician's assistant training programs, only 59 percent of their black counterparts complete training. Although women seem to fare slightly better, with 91.9 percent Coutlnu~a '/)n page 3 At this point, much work must 'be done in the building. Designated national historic landmark, it is protected from demolition. But its interior has suffered severe decay, Fire law violations have hampered the sta_ging of the last two theatrical productions in the building, Theater Director Daro Beninati said. Because of the uncertainty involving permissable oc- cupancy, dramatic productions in the theater this term have been lblllted to just one, the Parents' Weekend per- formances of \Noah's Nott.\ Several shows have been staged in the Nott during the past several Spring Terms. \To stage \Noah's Nott,\ we had to put in additional aisles between the seats,\ Beninati said. This limited seating to 108. In the past, the Nott theater has seated as many as 175. ... Before it housed a theater and the bookstore, the Nott, con- structed in 1878, was used as a multiapurpose meeting area and housed the College's art collection and library. The building was renovated in the early 20th century to become the College library. It continued~in-this role until19Gl, when the present\Schaffer Library was completed. At this time, the·-Nott was. transformed into a theater. Complete renovation of the building would reqpire \~illions\ of dollars, in Beninati's estimation. While such a project is probably a long way off, the money from this year's Senior Gift will add to the base of supportthat last year's gift provided. It is also hoped that this contribution wiU en- courage other people and . groups to make donations for the Nott' s refurbishment. On Saturday, April 25, 1981, six Civil Englneer'ing seniors and one faculty member were inducted into the RPI Chapter of Chi Epsilon, the National eivil Engineering Honor Fraternity in ceremonies held in the Student Ullion. To be admitted into the Fraternity, the student must be in the top one-third of his class, be of good character, be active in service to his department and school, and be recommended by his faculty. This year's initiates were Tom Sheahan, David Bradley, Henry Woller, Donald Leffert, Mark Scardino and Michael Miller. In addition, Dr. Thomas Jewell, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, was ac- cepted into Full Membership in the Fraternity. This nucleus of Honor Students wil[ be striving to bring to Union a program Prize Day .... Continued from page 1 awarded to a senior preparing for dentistry of medicine, based upon both academic achievement and character, and a meritorious service award, given to a senior for service above and beyond the normal requirements of duty in any field. Athletic honors included the William B. Jaffe Atllletic Medal for the outstanding athlete of the year, awarded to Joseph T. CardanyofPlattsburgh, N.Y. A senior political science major, Cardany is the College's all- time leading basketball scorer. • Frederick F. Fenter, Jr., of Centereach, N.Y., a· sophomore science major, bas been selected to attend the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, Switzerland, next year. which is in keeping with the ideals of Chi Epsilon. These are the ideals of scholarship, ser- vice, and dedication to the profession of Civil Engineering. Dr. Frank Griggs, Chairman of the Civil Engineering Depart- ment, is acting as advisor to the Union Branch. Walden . • • Continued from page 1 journalism, but has also done some reporting himself. This involvement, · according to Walden, has allowed him \to gain appreciation for the contemporary jolllilalist.\ One of his journalistic ven· tures took place at the Democratic Convention, where over 14,000 reporters bargained to enter. Walden was ama~ed at the Convention when reputable journalists were ''treated like illegal aliens. Facilities offered to reporters were So poor and many reporters were totally dlsreg arded.'' Dealing with these conditions, along with the pressures of deadlines, has led Walden to acquire a great deal of respect for journalists. \A chance in j.ournalism,\ ac- cording to Walden, \means so much more to me than acting at this time.\ A newspaper's desire to get the story first has become a major problem in journalism, according to Walden. This was seen recently with the shooting of Press Secretary, Brady. This incident was misrepresented because of the over anxious press. It is because of this time of distortion that ''the , newspaper isn't shining the way it did a few years ago.\ After becoming involved with acting and then journalism, Walden concluded that \acting is not just a profession, it's a way of life.\ • s1 ( B: s fan rell int be Wit wil SUJ ca1 wr .pi~ 1 ult SUI be It gr: fa: sti af1 ffii bu ca se stl aJ: pi dE Sll pi til d~ C( th Tl AI a si t~ pt b1 g n a t:

e e y CONjJQBDIEN-818, May .\1 11 1981 feature Spring 'Shape Up: Catching the Rays By JUDI LEE CHERVEN:Al{ withollt burning than if you hail no sUilscreen at all. When you begin your sun- worslli.p rituals, Y9U should stailt 'With :products with an SPF of eigbtor ten, which offer extra protedi()n and let you tan gradually. A ~graduaHan is bOth the·best looking tan and also the one kindest to your .skin. and cut into 3 /4 inch cuoes. It2 medium .zucchini, cut crosswise into lf4 inch slices. 1 medium tomato, peeled and chopped salt and pepper. In frYing pan coated with Pam, .saute onions, peppers, and garlic. Add all other ingredients. Cover and simmer . 25-30 minutes untll vegetables are cooked but remain crisp. Eat alone or over broiled fish. PageS Some students expose themselves to the sun·s rays 1ess than others Spring term offers us the fanta$tic opportWlity to relax., read, or study outside-baslting in the sun's rays. Although we'll ·be able to impress our f.riends with our fantastic tans, our skin will also be seriously damaged. Sun exposure is the primary cause of most skin cancers, wrl'lkles, lines, and uneven,. .pigmentation. . There are two types of ultraviolet rays given off by the sWI: AandB. tntravioletAmay be considered the tanning ray. It is the:- ray responsible for gradual tanning in all but the fairest skin. This ray is' strongest before 10:00 A.M. and after 2:00 P.M. Ultraviolet B may be referred to as the burning ray. If you're not careful,. you can really get a Even after you have_ become tanned, you should never stop. using sunscreen altogether, since tanned skin does not prevent sunburn or further SWl dam~ge. Finally if y()ur ~kin gets too dry from sun exposure, a creatn based sunscreen may Rona Weitz to Lecture help. . l Diet Recipe l Ratatuoille--serves (approx. ·125 calories). serious burn from this ray. It is ~gredients: strongest between 10:00 A.M. one-- and 2:00 P.M. 1 small onion _ \\ While they can be effective in o/4 {Jledium green pepper, preventing the short term sliced thinly. . damage and pain of sunburn, lf4 clove of crtished garlic. SWlScteens offer only limited lf4 medium eggplant, peeled Much public attention has been focused on human rights violations in EI· Salvador. However, Guatemala, a country reported by Amnesty Inter- national to have the worst long- term human rights record of any Latin American country is presently in a state of in- creasing turmoil. Since President Garcia took office in ·1978, there have been an estimated 5,000 murders. The Government denies having made a single political arrest, yet strong evidence exists connecting many of the killings with the army and the police, both of which are directly under government control. The majority of the victims have been associated with social, religious, or labor organizations. Since 1980, oc- cu;pational groups such as pri~sts, educators and j()ur- nahsts have systematically been abducted, tortured and killed. In retaliation for this oppression, guerrillas have increased their anti- government activities. This rapidly growing conflict may indicate that Guattemala · is headed toward a state of violence as intense as the present situation in El Salvador. protection to the above men- tioned, . serious, long term damage. Choosing and using the correct sunscreen correctlxare the key to sunburn protection. The Food and Drug Administration has established a sun protection system con- sisting of six categories of.skin type. These are determined by a person 1 s history of tanning and Blue SkieS Over Union Despite the Guatemalan Government's continued abuse of hwnan rights, President Reagan is considering resuming U.S. military aid. According to the May 5 issue of theN ew York Times, this would be contingent on the ter- mination of the Government's human rights violations. Past evidence indicates that -such a cessation is unlikely. In 1979 President Garcia compared th~ violence to an ''alergy\ stating that the \Guatemalan people must learn to live with it!\ burning: - · ' . 1. Sun Sensitive-This skin type never tans, and always burns with exposure. 2. Sun Sensitive-Skin that burns easily and tans minimally. 3. Normal-Skin that tans gr-adually and burnS moderately. 4. Normal-Always tans well, ·· and burns minimally; . · 5. Insensitive-This skin type tans deeply and rarely burns. 6. Insensitive-Skin that tans · profusely and never burns. After you have determined your skin type, match it with one of the following five categories of· ~un screen products, which are based on the amount of protection they provide in SPF's (suntan protection factor). 1. Ultra-protection-SPF 15 or greater. 2. Maximum protection-8PF 8-15. 3. Moderate Protection-sPF 6-8. 4. Moderate Protection-8PF 4:-6. 5. Minimum protection-8PF 2-4. If you reapply sunscreen every hour or two, using a product with an SJ?F .of six, for . example, means that you can stay in the SWI six times as long When the sun gqes Domino's Pizza gets busy preparing the most convenient fast food you can get. Just pick up your phone, dial the number, and a Domino's pizza·is onlY 30 minutes awa,y. Thars ali It takes, a11d we . never charge for delivery. Give us a call. Domino's Pizza will make your Late Night ... Special. Our drivers carry less . than - :By :0. BOOTH In the past several weeks I have received several com- plaints, strangely enough from women, .claiming that my ar- ticles have been somewhat bi~sed. They claim that these arti~les are . doubtless quite helpful to men, yet women are still [eft in a lurch searching for a way to make that certain man notice. Although I have the equi:pm:enf requisite to manbo()d, I must .confess to such readers that my particular expertise does not lie in the areas of , which they request · infonnation. Nonetheless, this week I shall attempt to explain the nature of men without setting myself up as the finest specimen of existing manhood. It ·has been said. that it is a woman's privilege to change her mind. However, it is ac- tuany the male sex which is the more protean of the two. Men a).'e as changeable as night and day, tog and bottom, passionate and passive. Under thi~ light, a wo!Ilan's approach to man, the man, must adjust to this pro~an ability. It is perhaps easiest to deal witll a man's passive side. There are several hints that a man is in a passive mood. There may be a far-away look in his eyes, a look which seems to herald a pensive dream, but which in reality is dream of adventures and foreign ex- citement unknown to the gentle suburban mind of his girlfriend. A kiss does not seem to interest him; he is too far gone into his own world. There are two ways to deal with the passive mood of a man. The first is to act as disirt· tetested in him as he is in y()u. Quietly sitting nell: to him,. you stare· off. into space utterly disinterested. Gradually he will become interested in why you are disinterested. At which point there is no rule which says that you can't become suddenly interested, if you understand my point. This is,. of course, an example of pulling him from the passive mood. The other way is to go with his passive mood. Let him relax, let him be laid back. In this sort of a mood a man likes to be babied; he occasionally enjoys having done to him what he always does to you. A hot baby oil massag.e, a spectally prepared hot fudge sundae with lots of whipped cream, perhaps even a bubble bath are all realxing activities for the passive male. It is amazing what a flower tucked behind his ear will do. Of course, the passionate man is another matter entirely. Instead of attempting to in- terest him, you may wish to run away. But if this is your mood in men, beware, for the passionate man is a more delicate type than the passive man. The . passive mooded man can simply say \well it's been that sort of day'' when his girlfriend, hysterically laughing, asks him if his mommy brought him the $1.QO.otl any 16\ pizza . with 1 or. m.ore item · One coupon per olzza. Offer expires May 14 , Fast •. Free Delivery Address: i27 Noit Terr Phone: 372-4441 uc $1.00 off any size thick crust pizza . One coupon per pizza. Offer expires May 14 Fast, Free Delivery Address: 127 Nolt Terr Phone: 372·4441 uc ........ [ ............ .. boxers with the leaping whales. The passionate man will be crushed. This is the mood of man who one has to be prepared to let one's hair down for be prepared to dance away the night to wild reggae. Listen to his mood, hot and smoky, ready to b11rn if touched. / Men are not the same as women (vive le differance) and their moods -a·re just as changeable and important. Women have, as their first responsibility to men, a primary understanding of these moods, and the accommodation thereof. On Thursday, May 7, at 7:30 Rona Weitz will speak on \Guatamala: A government program of political murder\ in Strauass Lounge. She is the Amnesty International USA Washington staff expert. Her talk, sponsored by Amnesty International, the International Relations Club, the Latin American Studies department, and PBK, will be the fourth in a series of discussions on Latin America. The talk will be followed by a reception. He,alth Studies • • • Continued from page ·~ of white women aad 73.3 percent of black women graduating, the differentials, by race, remain important, according to the researchers. In a discussion of educational attainment, Weiner and Schneller note that black males in physician's assistant training programs who have 15 to 19 years of education have higher . attrition rates than those with less schooling. And while enrollment in a college preparafory tract is significantly related to success for whites, tracking has a much reduced effect for blacks. \The assumptions generally made about the potential for students on the basis of educational achievements and aspirations may not translate into increased recruitment, retention, and desired distributional patterns for graduates,\ Weiner and Schneller note. \We are only beginning to understand the dynamic aspects of success for minority students and their needs during the period of professional education.'' Their findings, argue the two researchers, are particularly important .for the staffing of health facilities in urban and rural areas. In an earlier work reported in. the Journal oi Medical Education, they presented data indicating that minority students are more likely than others to make contributions to medically Wlderserviced comunities. \If we cannot successfully recruit such students into the health professions, and following recruitment provide them with the necessities for successful educational ex- periences, we will do little to reverse long-standing inequities in the distribution of health manpower,\ Weiner and Schneller conclude. Weiner, a member of the Union College faculty for the P?st seven years, received his doctorate from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. In addition to his previous work with Schneller, Weiner has published research on the relationship of education and political party preference. Schneller received his doc- torate from New York University in 1973 and joined the Union faculty two years later. He is a former assistant pr?fessor of community health sc1ences at Duke University Medical Center and assistant professor of sociology at Duke University. Schneller is the author of The Physician's Assistant: Innovation in the Medical Division ot'Labor (D.C. Heath, 1978).

Page 4 OONOORDIEN8IS~ May '1~ 1981 Forum Election Candidate Sta·tements President Joseph Marla Maneen Shore Joseph Maneen On the night of April 30, 1981, a historical event occurred. A new political party was born. The AMERICAN NATIONAUST PARTY came into being. The ANP has two main goals: 1) The realization of American Manifest Destiny - It is our divine right to control every parcel of land in the Western Hemisphere - from \pole to ice-capped pole,\ and 2) The total destruction of Communism - We must wipe these red demons from the face of the earth. You may be wondering what this has to do with the Presidency of the Student Forum of Union College. Well, it has everything to do with it. By being in control of an organization such as the Student Forwn, it gives us (every red-blooded American student of Union) a perfect bargaining position with the Administration. Unless they form their polfcies in ac- cordance with our goals a considerable amount of student support can be withdrawn. This is what America is all about, the bargaining process. If you consider yourself an American, then your support would be greatly appreciated in helping me to stop the flow of the red tide of Communism. Marla Shore My name is Marla Shore and I am running for President of the Student Body. The President must be a hard\working and dedicated individual. Being involved with the founding of the new sorority has shown me what real dedication and hard work are. The President should be easily accessible and con- cerned with representing student interests to the faculty and administration. I have been on various committeees, in- cluding Athletic Committee, Committee on Committees, and Finance Committee, along with serving as Junior Class Representative. I have also senred on Dormitory SOcial Councils and was an Orientation Advisor. No college is perfect, nor is any student government perfect. After all, we are students - here to learn. As a representative to the StJtdent Forum, I have seen and un- derstood how this. structure works, and perhaps more im- portantly, how it fails to work. 'I will use this . knowledge in handling problems that are brought before the Student Forum in the future. I feel that since I have the experience, the desire, and the enthusiasm to be elected, I can try my best to put Rich Tanenbaum Weldon Turner my all into the office for which I would serve. Please vote .for me en Tuesday, May 12. Thank you. ' Weldon Turner My fellow students, I need your support in becoming your next· Student Forum President. Presently, I am a Junior Representative to the Student Forum, a member on the Student Affairs CoWlcil and am a member to the Sub-Council on Fraternity Mfairs. During this past year I have gained valuable experience through these various com- mittees with which I have been associated. These experiences, as well as the relationships that I have developed with the various interest groups on campus, will enable me to become an effective President. I believe it is our duty as a concerned student body to vote for that individual who would be a capable and assertive leader. Let we as students move into a new era with a diligent and effective leadership in student government. I believe that I fulfill the aforementioned qualities and am cap~ble of bringing the student body and the administration in a COJllr' bined effort to ma~ our.Ji~at Union more enjo.yat:tM: Rich Tanenbaum Although I can't promise you that they'll reopen Jack~in-the­ Box or that West will be serving filet mignon, I can offer you a more efficient- student govern- ment for the coming year. This past year was one of transition for the Forum. We have anplyzed the constitutions of each group and have devised a new plan on how to set their budgets more efficiently .. My experience as Junior Representative , to the .. Forum has made me aware of the responsibility of the allocation of $200,000. With the assistance of two other students, I have been working on an Information Line which will bring added con· venience to the Union College conununity. This will be a telephone service whereby you can dial a set number and hear a recorded tape of weekly events on campus. I plan to have this service in effect by next fall. Another top priority next year will be-c.the institution of Student Forum By Laws. Besides my involvement on the Student Forum and on Committee on Committees, I have also been an active member of the Concert Com- mittee in the past, a disc jockey at WRUC, and I am presently on the Fitzhugh Ludlow Com- IJ.littee. - - Mark Landis The major responsibilities of junior Trustee lie in two basic areas. The first entails serving on the Union College Board of Trustees. Here, the student representative is required to be the influential link in attainir)g solutions that will mutually benefit both the college and the individual student. The second responsibility is sitting on the Student Forum. Through knowledge of Forum activity, hard work, and keeping a good rapport with the students,. the trustee will be able to clearly voice the woblems and affairs of the college to the Board of Trustees. I feel that my role within the Union College community, along with a strong interest and dedication to Union College itself, makes me the best candidate for Junior Trustee. Mark Rich Landis Mintz Rich Mintz Union is a great college academically, socially, historically. It is; however, not without its ,problems. Pressing problems have gone neglected for too long. Vital areas of in- terest to us, the students, have gone unrepres.ented on the Board of Trustees and in the Student Forum. We must push the College's decision-making Gary Chadick Bill DlC9nza Gary Chadick I am a candidate for Vice President of Administration in the Student Government Association. One of the most important responsibilities.of the Vice President is being the chairperson of the Committee . on Committees. As a Sophomore Class Represenm tative . this year, I was a member of the Conrinittee on Committees and worked very hard reviewing and approving the constitutions of all student- run clubs and organizations. This provided me. with valuable experience that will help me in the position of Vice President. Next year, the main objective of the Vice President should be to oversee the activities ofthese clubs and organizations. Al~, it Junior Trus·tea -- elites to consider, among other things, in the next two years: -the resto11ation of the Nott -- increasing support, financially and structurally, for the Arts of ·Union .... hiring a new Dean of Students who is· approachable, personable and open to our ideas, criticisms, and suggestions - making money available to fraternities-sororities for the restoration and upkeep of tpeir houses -- repair and maintaining all dorms on campus. convincingly. My main goal is to reach as many students as possible, to let them know that they can have an active voice in . detennining the priorities of Union College policies. Please get out and vote, Tuesday, May 12. ~aren Schick Peter' Schlessel Peter Schlessel- These goals are not unat- tainable. They can be had · thnugh a combination of good, clear leadership and .. mutual · cooperation among the Board of Trustees,. the Administration, the faculty, the Student Forum and us, the students. The position of Junior Trustee has two dimensions. One is to report to the Board of Trustees the feelings prevalent among the campus community. The other is to be a responsible voting member of the Student Forum. The position of trustee requires a person capable of effectively conununicating the feelings of the conununity to the Board. He-she must make decisions that· are best for the entire c·ampus. We need a person willing to put in the time necessary to formulate the intelligent opinions concerning the best course for Union. I am willing to make the com- mitment to be an effective trustee. Through discussions With both faculty and student trustees I have been made aware of the . t•f;jsponsibilities and duties of the position. I am abreast of the issues currently before the Board and am confident of my ability to best ·serve Union's needs. I ask for yo'llr support. Approachability. Commit· ment. Determination. Enthusiasm. These and. your demands I will bring to the Board and Forum as trustee. For trustee: A Clear Voice. Karen Schick My name is. Karen Schick and as a transfer student I have had the·opportunity to compare and contrast student government structures. Therefore, I realize the importance of having student representatives serve on the Board of Trustees. In electing a trustee, it is im- portant to look beyond im- mediate concerns. The trustee should be selected according to his or her ability to function as the liaison between the student body and the Board of Trustees. This requires a responsible, · dedicated person who is able to express the attitudes of ·the entire student body clearly and Continued on page 5 -V.P. of·. Administration- is important that the Vice President be able to make correct decisions when ap- pointing members to various Student Forwn Committees. I feel my involvement with Committee on Committees this year will help· me make the right decisions. One must consider that next year, we will need experience in Student Government and I believe my involvement_ with the Student Forum this year has given me the experience necessary to be a good Vice President. I will perform my responsibilities with enthusiasm and to the best of my ability. First, however, I need your support. So please vote for Gary Chadick for Vice Presiden,t of Administration on May 12. Thank you for your attention. Bill DiConza Should the Student Forum simply sit to disburse student activity funds? Sometimes. Should they initiate new, progressive ideas affecting all Union students? Again, sometimes, but not too often. Should they fill spare hours misdirecting cr,iticism towards such independent and integral parts of Union as fraternities and student . service organizations? No, for then the government becomes the problem rather than the ~lution. The time is now for us to reassess the values of the student govemment. The Forum cannot afford to alienate any faction of the student body, for once it does it becomes the mandated voice of no one and can thus accompliSh little. By functioning quietly and diligently, the Forum can best secure those goals the students hold important. As Vice President of AdminiStration my efforts will be towards keeping the Forum wallQng with the students rather than over them. Only together can we hope to achieve success. - Vice President of Finance - Peter Mccaffrey Throughout the year various issues have been brought to the attention of the Union College Community. Developing· strategies for dealing with these issues is not a simple task. It requires a great deal of dedication and experience. As a · former Co-Chairperson of the Finance Committee I possess the experience and ad~ ministrative ability necessary to ensure proper handling of the issues as well as the monetary responsibilities entrusted to the Vice President of Finance. My past experience with various members of the administration would ensure continuity bet· ween the new Dean of Students and the Vice President of Finance. The future of the Finance Committee is promising although some improve,ments are necessary. Communication between student organiZations and the committee has suffered in the past due partly to the lack of a written set of by•Iaws. The question of dues as an alternate source of revenue for some organizations has risen on many occasions. Is this a viable alternative to raising the student activities fee? A~ Vice President of Finance I can assure you that these issues and others will be addr~ed in the future in a smooth and orderly manner. Thank you. · Barton levine The major responsibility of Peter Barton McCaffery Levine the position of the Vice- President of Finance is to Continued on page 6

- ·~'. '.-.. ·- OONOORDIENSIS, May .1' 1981 Page 5 Junior Trustee - -Sen:ior RepresentativP-C'-- Continued from. page 4 Jeff Steinberg. Currently, Union College faces problems notably dif- ferent from those encountered in years past. Tuition is con- stantly rising while financial· aid is becornitlg less available. Jeff oav.id Joseph Laurin aob Pavacic Kim Nogay Many small colleges, including steinberg Wollin I have taken part in many one makes of it. This means introduction of new ideas, reintroduction of old ones, receptiveness ·to students, enthusiasm, devotion to im- provement of student life and most of all a lot of hard work. I want to make these com- mitments and am qualified for this position. Please, next week get out to check your mail and on the way vote for someone who wants to do more than just the job - Kim No gay. Thank you. Union, are struggling to sur- activities in my three years at Vive. Despite this, Union is thi's, ga· m· m· g· for students a union because I get a lot of Joseph Laurin aetively upgrading its satisfaction from them, and I · · · . academic standards, as well as chance to get to know their feel that involvement in ex- Something that surprises me to pay dues? When are Forum meetings and what is discussed at them? How many people even read through the new constitution before voting on it last year? The point is, it is very difficult to understand student govern· ment and it takes someone with a lot of interest and motivation to understand it and the issues involved. Even without being a formal member of a governing body I have kept up with issues. I have the interest and the motivation to work well in student government. Bob Pavacic its facilities. These specific professors and receive a higher tracurricular organizations is a about Union is how little the n .-... quality of instruction. - bo t · ptGblem~aa we', ,w; ,p..,.e:rs are part of the \total educational\ average student knows a · u Presenting myself to you m what Union's students, ad~ spirit of Union. Involvement in the student governing syste~ 1 l50wordsisliketryingtojam25 ministrators, and trustees must If 1 am elected to the position . Student FDrum is also the most andthe issues brought before 1t. people into a Volkswagon. It face. .of Junior Trustee, 1 Will try to eff~cti:ve means of ac- How many people could draw a gets to the point where there's In order for the Board of present these and other ideas of . compliflhment. diagram of the hierarchy of our confusion, people get hurt, Trustees to continue to make yours to the Board of Trustees The J. ab .of rep·· resentative government? Where do . corn- people get mad - a foot in the 'bl d · · st d t to help create a better academic ., H k . h respons1 e ec1s1ons, u en as Well as social environment at requires a knowledge of com- mittees fit in. · ow are mem- face is ta en m t · e wrong way - sentiment must be clearly rnittee .proceedings, attendance bers chosen? There-has been a and, in the end. everyone can't understood. It is imperative Union College.. at :meetings and awareness of lot of talk about clubs lately; fit anyway. then that we elect leaders , . student affairs. After these how should monies be given out One hundred fifty words is· capable of reflecting the Thank you very much. · criteria. are met, the job is what to them\! Should members have just about long enough for me to students' views. In these past ----llllljoao-------1------------------------, give a flowery, trite exposition two years I have gained ex- on ''why you should vote for perience as a member of J n·or R·epresentat·ive me'' or \why rm better than various committees, and ex- - U· I . · • . · . • . · · . they are\ ... I'm-not going to. do 'tracurricular activities. This that- I'd be lying to myself and involvement has afforded me James Hoffman leadership qualities as a I'd be lying to you. the opportunity to gain a strong staunch advocate for issues of In short, there are a few sense of student needs and I am a candidate for the office primary importance to the things (attitudes, policies) that interests. Union needs more of Junior Class Representative student population. I can help I care about, that I'd like to than a \doer we need of the Student Government the student body become more change for the better on this someone who can comfortable Association. I believe that I am powerful, and as a whole we can campus. If you are interested, if interact with students, ad- the best candidate for the work more closely with the you CARE too, you can ask me ministrators, and trustees. ' position be~~use I have ~he administration to realize the what they are and I'll be happy Please vote on May 12. Thank Ilene James time,. tile ability, and the desrre potential of Union. · to tell you BUT I'm not going to you. Landress Hoffman to do a great job. The respon- Thank you for your an- expound on them here - there . Dav:id Wollin Q: What is a Junior Trustee? A: A Junior Trustee, for which the entire student body votes, acts as a liaison between the Board of Trustees and the student body in an effort to solve many of the college's problems. Ilene Landress One of the many respon- sibilities of the Junior Representative is to effectively convey the sentiment of his or her classmates to the Student Forum. To carry out this task properly, one must first be ready to solicit opinions from members of the class, and then be willing to present and act on these views. As yout representative, I will carry out Q: Why am I running? . these duties to the best of my A: The ideal way to decide ability. This past year, as a who is the best candidate is to member of the Student Forum's look at their involvement in Committee on Committees, I Union's problems before have not only gained a working they're running for the position. knowledge of the student I have been very active in government system, but have pushing for the reJ,lloval of the had the opportunity to work asbestos, and I am co-creator of with a variety of student-run a health committee which is · organizations. This experience looking into providing in- should aid me in corn- tramural insurance. Moreover, municating with both my as Editor-in-Chief of Union classmates and the Forum. Views, I have investigated such Unfortunately, the word limit problems as black-white placed on this sta:tement does relations at Union and the not allow me to touch upon the deterioration of Hickok. These many important issues that will are just some of my ac- be taken up by the Forum in the complishments without an coming .year. Please feel free, elected position - as Junior however, to contact me and ask Trustee I can do more. · · any questions you might have. Finally, regardless ot whether I am elected or not, I will still fight to solve the college's problems. Robert Taylor Union College is a good school, but it has the potential to become a great academic in- stitution. It needs to change some of its policies in order to achieve its greatness. A more diverse student body should be sougbt, through a nationwide . recruitment program. T~e athletic facilities and vars1ty . teams could be improved substa.ntially while st~ll maintaining the academic excellence here. I ··strongly feel that more permanent positions for professors should be made available, even if higher costs will be incurred. The student body would benefit greatly from Thank you. Duncan MacKenzie Steven Larsen Duncan MacKenzie The position of Junior Representative is a link bet- weenthejunior class as a whole and the student forum. Being a representative means putting in the time to find out and voice th.ose ideas, problems, and suggestions that members of the junior class have that in- volve the student forum. I realize that this position requires a lot of time. I do, however, have both ~he willingness and desire to g~ve this time to become an active and aware representative. sibilities of the Junior .Class ticipated support. just isn't enQugh room! Representative are threefold. ------------.L-------::---- First, I will solicit opinions on So.p·homore R·epresentatives issues from the members of my _ class. Second, I will be ac- ·Matt Nankl·n· cessible for proble~s and suggestions from the members I feel in order to be effective, of my class. Third, I will speak a Student Forum representative my mind at meetings and vote must be in touch with the according to my constituent's feelings .of the students about interests. Before I can un- the issues and have the personal dertake these responsibilities, motivation to see that these however, I need the support of ideas are carried out for the this year's sophomores at benefit of all. In adhering to the election time. first point, I plan to be ac- Steven larsen My name is Steven Larsen and I am running for Junior Representative, Class of 1983. Communication between the government and the student body is an integral part of an effective and competent system. I feel by strengthening the bridge between the two, both g()vernment and students will benefit. Better com- munication means better representatives. My - in- vQlvement with a variety of campus activities qualifies me to act as a well informed link between you and the Forum. It is essential that the views of our class be heard. I urge you to vote next Tuesday. Your sup- port will be greatly ap- preciated. John Scotto My name is John Scotto and I have a strong desire to r.epresent the Student. Body as Junior Representative. My interests in Student Govern- m..ent are derived from · my fascination ln the political process. My activities in this area include: active in- volvement in high school government, member of the r~ electi()n committee for Governor Hugh Carey of New V: ork Stat.e and coordinator for a volunteer task force at the 1980 Democratic National Convention. • At Union I have participated in many activities: varsity football, Block·U-8ociety, and social chairman at Chi Psi, just to mention a .few. As your J'lUlior Representative, I will make every effort to com- municate with my fellow students and to use my cessible to every student in our class. I believe I· already have the second prerequisite, which requires something from within oneself to fulfill. No matter who you decide on May 12, please show that you care by voting. It is only through the participation of all that true representatives may be chosen. Ken Adler 1 know from experience in high school government, making campaign promises is inane: Consequently, I'm not going to raise any issues in this statement. One of the reasons· I am running . for re,presentative to the forum is; during my first year here at Union I have felt virtually no effect of the student ,government. I knew it existed because people asked me to vote for them. I would like to change this condition. The representative should be a responsible, intelligent person who you can trust. He or she should act in accord with the majority of the students. I feel an important, currently neglected, responsibility of the representatives is informing the students of their government's affairs. Resolving this flaw will strengthen the government. A stronger government can ac- complish more for the student body. So, next Tuesday, don't vote for your friends of today, but vote for your future as a John Scotto Matt Nankin Ken Adler Christopher Morrow I am interested in becoming involved in the Union Com- munity by helping make decisions for Union students. This can be accomplished by becoming a Sophomore Representative in the Student Forum. I have the deter- mination required to control the responsibility of this position wisely. My goal is to help make Union College ·· a better and happier place to get an education. Judy Beth Greene Caryn Opengart JudyBeth Greene My name is Judybeth Greene and I'm running for Sophomore Representative because I'd like to see more efficient com- munication between the Forum and the majority of the students. I feel a more cen- tralized and organized in- formation system would keep students up to date on campus activities .. I would also like to see the new budgeting process go through to subsidize as many clubs as possible. As a member of the soccer and ski clubs, dorm co\Ulcil, Tri- Delt and Mountebanks, I am very involved on camp'ils, and therefore - I feel I could ef- fectively represent the up- coming Sophomore Class~ Continued on page 16

Page 6 Contm~ed from page 5 Caryn Opengart Student Forum is an im- portant aspect of Union 'College. It is given a certain amount of · money each year, as well as a responsibility to allocate this money as-it sees fit. As a result, the Forum has a great deal of influence over deciding which clubs will receive the funding that is necessary for 'its success. It is, therefore, very important that the members of this organization .be both ex- perienced and able. Last year it was decided that the position of Freshman Representative should be established. This position gave two freshmen the opportunity to participate in the government and to learn its procedures and methods. After serving several months as Freshman Rep, I have gained .a great deal of knowledge about our govern• ment. With this experience behind me,. I will be much more confident and assertive in my role as Sophomore Represen- tative and will have a greater influence in the workings of our government. Jared Squires Hello, my name is Jared Squires. If you don't know who I am, look under the ''Better Late Than Never\ section of the Record (it's a really bad passport photo). I feel commuriication with students is the key to being a good representative of any student government. A representative must know what issues most strongly affect the students, ang by com~ municating with my fellow classmates, I could understand their opinions, and therefore best represent them. Also, Union is constantly moving in different directions. For example, Admis~Jions is becoming increasingly 01ore selective in accepting students, .and the new athletic field will add a new dimension to Union extracurricular life. A good student government will try to OONOORDIENSIS, May 7,. 1981 -Sophomore Representativ..-..e ..... attempting to afford· strong representation of these views. In short, I hope more than adequately to represent you and urge you to participate in the choice of YOUR represen,. tatives. Nia Cholakis Jared Squires Gary lehr While serving as your representative this year, I feel I have learned a lot about what it takes to be a good Student Forum member. Confidence,. the ability to speak one's mind, and a knowledge of past and current issues can only be obtained through experience and participation. Several issues which the Forum has dealt with this year will un- doubtedly appear again in the future. In addition, many of the deCisions we have made thus far will have a large impact on the activities and events of next year. I would like to be given the chance to follow up on the things which I have voted for as Fresh- man Representative. One of my goals is to improve the com~ munication between the Forum, Forum committees, and the Student Body. If elected sophomore representative, I promise to serve to the best of my ability. Vote for experience. Re-elect Gary Lehr. Ban Brooks served as Student Council President in both my Junior and Senior years. I was also active on the student newspaper. Athletically, I played football, hockey and baseball. This year at Uhion I played for the varsity hockey team and next year plan to become more involved in student government, hoPefully as sopho01ore class representative. The major reason why I am running for sophomore representative is because I would like to continue the en- joyment I bad in high school, being involved in politics. Also, I think I have a lot to offer the student government, as well as individuals in the sophomore class- who may have any problems or suggestions. A small issue., but one of importance, I think, is tbat a debating society should be . established here at Union, and hopefully next year, I would like to see this accomplished. Last of all, I have really enjoyed meeting people while campaigning and look forward to meeting more people next year, as your sophor:Pore class representative. Karen . Greaves For the past two terms I have held the position ·Of student forum secretary. I feel that through this position I have gained a complete un- derstanding of the forum, and realize its strengths and weaknesses. As sophomore representative I would enter office already familiar with the current system of government here at U~ion College. Entering the office with this experience would enable me to start in- stituting ideas without having to waste valuable time learning ··the system. As well as holding the position of forum secretary, I am involved in various ac- tivities at Union, which afford me a broadened view of campus life. I am a responsible and enthusiastic individual Who will spend the time necessary to represent the sophomore Class. I run also receptive to new ideas, which I f~l is a necessary quality to represent the sophomore class to its ut• most potential. Winthrop Thurlow It has become cliched to say that apathy is the biggest problem at Union, un., fortunately it is true. The Student Forum is just what its name implies, a fonun where students have a chance to make decisions concerning what goes on here in the way· of academics, atbletics, and social events. If elected, my primary goal would be to .include more people in the decision-making process. Increased awareness and interest in the Student Forwn can only bring about an Karin. Greaves Winthreip Thurlow· improvement . in the services and functions of the organization. I believe I can bring to the Student Forum a fresh and aggressive approach. to solving Union's problems while at the same time help to continue the valuable service it has provided. In this day of increased costs and tighter budgers, a keen awareness of the needs of Union students is vitally important. I feel that I have the ability and enthusiasm . needed by the Forum. · Photos taken by Charis Richards & Mindy Broser ... Elections Tues., May 12, 9-~ Run-offs Thurs., May 14, 9-5 If weather permits, the voting booths will be JocateEI in front of Carnegie. Otherwise they will be located on the ground floor of Carnegie by the Banquet Room. Only full time, undergraduates, paying student activity fees and currently attending classes at the Schenectady campus will be allowed to vote. Students will be required to state name and J.D. number when voting. Doing Our Part· Due to the large amount of space being devoted to the Student Forum Election Candidate Statements, we were unable to include the usual editorial, and th~ two Letters to the Editors that we received. Both of the letters slated for this week will appear next week, in their entirety. As for the statements presented in the preceding pages, we-were quite pleased at the response ·Of the candidates and their responsibility in getting that~. material to us on time. Once again we must stress the importance of voting make these changes as ____________ _. beneficial to students as · possible. As a representative, I would try my best to see that students' interests are taken · into consideration when . changes are made at Union. Finally, I urge you to visit me at 218 West to discuss any issue or just talk. Hi, my name is Bart Brooks. I am from Newmarket, Ontario, and attended. high school at St. Andrew's College in Aurora, Ontario. During my high school years I was active both politically and athletically. I Michael Rogers in the upcoming electi_on. The student government is only as good as the interest that the student body shows in the election process. It is essential that every student on this campus play an active role in voting, and take an interest in the results and subsequent actions of the elected officers. This is our student government, help make it work. Vote. Nia Cholakis Next year we, the members of the class of '84, will be sophon1ores, as such vve will have three representatives to the Student Forum. On Tuesday, May 12, we have the responsibility to elect these representatives. In this selection process, it is essential for you to be aware of the in- tentions of each of the can- didates. Through the class representatives, students are able to express their interests and ideas. As a candidate for this position, I am eager and willing to deal with . the goals deemed important by the class. Because of my involvement in high school government and sports and in college in· tramurals, I believe that I will be able to communicate ef- fectively with the members of my class as to what im- provements should be made, V.P. of Finance Continued from page ~ oversee the operation of the Student Finance Committee. It serves to ensure the efficient and judicious allocation of the Student Activities monies. In my past two years ex- perience as an active member of the Finance Committee, we have been involved in a con- certed effort to abolish the slipshod deficit spending practices of the past and instead to restructure the ad~ ministration of committee policies. The reforms required were so great that even after passing last year's budgets through a series of rigid budgeting criteria, we were forced to institute a 10 percent across-the-board cut. I am seeking election to see that our policy goals are achieved and in this way to ensure that it will not be necessary to levy cuts in the future. As I have the most experience dealing with the Finance Committee's operations, I feel I am best qualified to lead the transition into next year's committee. I would like to take this op- portunity to announce my candidacy for Finlilncial Vice- President of the Student Forum. I am currently a sophomore majoring in industrial economics. The position for which I am running requires a great deal of hard work and an ability to deal with people. The holder of this office must also be able to analyze - impartially - the needs and want~ of the student body. I feel that I am qUalified in these respects. · · My experiences and activities at Union have been diverse enough that I've come in con- tact with most, if not all, of the student body. I have been a member of the varsity and junior-varsity hockey teams for two years. I was a member of the .stage crew for the recent play, WORKING. I have been a disc jockey and newscaster at WRUC throughout this year. I am currently Vice-President of the Inter~Ftaternity Council and a member of the Psi Upsilon fraternity. I feel that it is essential to elect someone who realizes the needs of the whole college community. Elect Mike Rogers and make sure your interest$, are represented in student · g()verrunent. Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor ·Associate Editor 'Business Editor- News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Women's Sports Editor Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Subscriptions Cartoonist . Staff Photo Staff Paul Grosstn.an, Rachel I. Mandel Julie Isgro Donna Creeley Jeff Scardino Joe Maguire Naomi Blank Dan Booth, Judi Chervenak Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Maria Manfredonia, Charis Richards Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Cory Lewkowicz Mindy Broser Steve Lerner EllenBerger Lisa Snyder · Dan Rosenfield, Cindy Tenner Charis Ric~ards, Kent Avery, A.J. D'Angelo, Cindy Tenner· CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student · body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schene~tad_r, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Pubhcatlons, Inc., ~1 Division Street, Sidney, New York 1~8, (607) 563-7151. Ente~~ m the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscr1ptlon rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 peF year, delivered anywhere in the . United States. oncordiensis subscribes to the Coliege Pre,ss S~r_vice (CPS) .. F - - A T S; Lud reh yea est4 coli eith ori~ him deb trac oth Whl Whl aftE yea tak: tasl WOI and T Un] one pri' WO! beE por Uni tra1 bee nar gre geiJ thi~ F gr~: Pr< \U: A J J 185 an4 An pr4 wr Th Th em to ye; of i

OO?fOORDIEN8lS,-· May 7, 1981 Page 7 .W~at's BappeJllllg Psychology Department Picn~c, 4:30 p.m., Jackson's Gardens Wednesday,May 13. Men.'s Lacrosse vs. Albany, 3: 30 p.J,ll. Eco Cl,ub Party, 3~7 p.m., Jackson's Garden C·a.reer Warks))op Update Tb_urs., May 7, 3:30 p,m.- \How to Survive After Union,\ Fri~Y, May 8 seminar. Seniors Only (Strauss Delta Phi Suitcase Party ·- LQunge) Filin, \Airplane 8, lCl p.m., Frl., May 8, 10 a.m.-Careers SS016 in Personnel Seminar-- Saturday, May9 Chi Psi Charity Pariy DG Olympics Men's Tennis vs. Bingham- ton, 1 p.m. Film, \Airplane 8,. 10' p.m., SS016 Sunday, May 10 Film \Ai l . .,, 8 10 ·, rp ane, , p.m., SS016 Monday,May 11 Intellectual Cabaret, 9 p.m., Cabaret Room Hillel Presents \Best Boy,'' 8:30 p.m., SSOl~ Tuesday, May 12 Film, \Fun with Dick and Jane,\ 8:10 p.m., SS016 Presenter: William Kuchta '72 · (Career Center) Mon., May 11, 3:30 p.m.- Career Info. for Underc~assmen (Career Center) Tues., May 12, 6:30 p;m.- Resume Writing (Career Center) Wed., May 13, 6:30 p.m.- Decision-Making Skills (Career Center) · Tues., May 19, 6:30 p.m.- ·Career-Life Planning (Career Center) Thurs., May 21, 7 p.m.- F amUy and Career Choice - Can there be a balance? (Strauss Lounge) Workshops open to all· unless . otherwise specified. Please sign up in advance for all workshops at the Career Center! • • Ices Ge11eral Ncttic~s .Gay discussion group. Monday, May 11, 8:30 p.m., Hu Lounge (second floor). Furnished apartment for lease-Summer and Fall 1981. Four bedroom, full kitchen, bath and living room. Less than · one block from campus, near Mohawk National Bank, 1583 Avenue A. Call Jeff or Rob at 6757 or 6727. Peter A. Sawchuk, currently W!lrking in new product development for the Garden Way Mfg. Co. of Troy, will presentthe various aspects of a ''Push'' . Distribution System and detail key problems associated with its installation. The discussion will be on May 7 at 3:45p.m. in 207 Bailey Hall. Rona Weitz of Amnesty International, an authority on Central America, will !fu!cuss • \Guatemala: A Government Program of Political Murder\ on Thursday, May 7 at Union College. Her talk will begin at 7:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall, and the public is welcome to attend. FOR SALE: 4-harness Le.Clerc floor loom with bench, $350. Call Peter Blankman, Public Relations Office, 370- 6171. Applications for the Saxton, Porter, and Speir scholarships (for Union students who .have been accepted and plan to at- tend Albany Law School) are' available from Professor Board, Dept. of Political Science (SS 216). Deadline for application is July l. A symposium on the \Development and Use of Cost - and Wrought Iron in the 19th Century Structures\ will be presented by Margot Gayle on May 27 at 7 p.m. in the Nott Memorial. Several weeks ago, in moving into Fox Dorm, I lost a poster cannister containing many posters from my term abroad. These posters have incredible sentimental value, and I'm offering a SUBSTANTIAL reward .for their return or in- formation leading to their return. Call Rich, 382-9688. Volunteers needed to serve as ushers for coiiimencement. For more information, contact Mike Andolina--6061 or Student Affairs Office. 3 Bedroom apartment to sublet for summer. Gelles pie Street! For information, call Stephie 377-8322. NEEDED! Four people to sublet beautiful spacious apartment for summer months. Fully furnished. Rent is negotiable. Please call Pam 6551 or Debbie 6891. O:q T~e Greek fro:qt ~ - Sigma Chi Clambake Sigma Chi's 13th Annual Clambake and Derby Day will be held on Sat., May 16 from 1 p.in. to 6 p.m. at the Girting Center. . Tickets are $6 and $3, Marra'.s office until Thursday. Any remaining tickets will be available at Delta Phi. on Friday. For ·any information, call 382-9159. AT THE RAT Psych. Dept. Pienlc everyone attending must have a Jackson's Gardens from 4:00' ticket. All money raised will go p.m. til qark. Beer, soda, to charity· We proudly announce the total amount of the money raised for Muscular Dystrophy during our Spring Fling Weekend. The annual Psychology Picnic will be held on May l2 at 4:30 in Jackson's Gardens. 'I'his picnic is open to all psychology majors and friends. Admission is only $1 for all you can eat. Don't miss this good time\! Political Fontm DiscllSsion for Trustees Political Forum would like to inform the campus of a discussion to be held for all candidates running for the- office of Junior Trustee. This discussion will be held on May 7 (Thursday) in the~ 4th floor lounge in Carnegie at 4:30p.m. All interested students are encouraged to attend. Mandy Phillips will be moderating tbe discussion which is sponsored solely by Political Forum and has nothing to do with any of the candidates. Thank you, .Biology C~ Picolc Everyone is welc~med to the Biology Club Picnic on May 8 ~ hamburge:fs, hotdogs, and . ·~· · · salads willbe served. There will be music by WRUC. Admission ·is $1.00, 50 cents for seniors. Rain date is May 9. Pbllosophy Dept. Colloquium On Friday, May 8 at 3:30p.m. in Hwnanities 213, Professor Stanley Kaninsky will speak on the topic: \Is Water Necessarily H20?\ All are welcome to attend. Refresh- ments will follow the colloquium. B.L.A.S.~ounce01ents B.L.A.S. is sponsoring an all campus bus ride to Riverside Park, Agawa, Mass., for Sat., May -23. For information, see Mrs. Marra. Also, B.L.A.S. would like to extend its thanks to aU those who donated to the Atlanta Children Fund. Because· of your support we collected $175. Featuring, B A D G E Delta Gamma Olympics Twelve teams will compete in the Delta Gamma Olympics this Saturday. The events include: Pyramid Building, Tug-Q-War, Jello Eating, Water Balloon Throw, Relay Obstacle Course and a Mystery Event. Come and watch the fun, beginning at 11 a.m. The teams have been selling Raffle tickets because this is a double event in the Olympics (i.e., it counts for two events). The winners of the Raffle tickets will be announced during the Olympics. There are many prizes to be awarded. The success of the Olympics is due to the donations from many business firms. The following firms deserve par- ticUlar thanks: Kenneth R. French & Co., Inc. Auctioneers- Appraise rs:Liq uidators, Mercedes Benz Sales & Service, Americana Inn, Zip Instant Press, Luigi's Restaurant, Jwnpin's Jack's Drive-In, Turf Inn and Yred Grimaldi's Ristorante. IFC:Panhellenic Workshop There will be an IFC- Panhellenic Kitchen Management Workshop on Tuesday, May 12 at 7:30 p.m. in the 4th floor Lounge, Carnegie. Union College Food Service personnel will discuss co-op food buying and the futute of a Fraternity Managers Association at Union. All stewards and-or house managers should attend. Contact Michael Andolina, 6061, for more information. Suitcase Party Tickets There are still tickets availablefor Delta Phi's Fourth Annual Suitcase Party, to be held Friday, May 8. Tickets are $13and will be available in Mrs. _$456.52_- GRAND TOTAL We would like to thank our patrons for their support for our effort. Also we thank our distributors for their contributions: Bud's Music Service, Crisafull Bros. Sysco Foods, E&D Beverage, R. Pusatere Inc., Aiello and Sons and a special thanks to James M. McNearney for their help in organizing the benefit and their contribution. Finally a very special thank you for all the little people who donated their time: The WRUC Disc Jockeys, SOT, The Rathskellar workers, the Cabaret crew, and our Sunday afternoon entertainment: Woodchucks & Babylon, Kevin Gavitt, and the Martin Bros. Another thank you to the Union College Campus Security for their understanding of the whole situation. 13TH ANNUAL CLAMBAKE Saturday, May 16th 1 -6PM Sigma Chi Spring Fever Tickets on Sale 8 pm at Carnegie Act 1': Beth Baumgarten and / Delbbie Poletto Act II: \Richmond Revi·val\ · MC~s: P~ggy O'Rourke /Katie Martin

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, May 71, 1981 ~rts & Culture Brooklyn's Shirt Mosie 'We're the Shirts, from Brooklyn,'' is how Annie Golden, lead singer for the Shirts, introduced the rock band on the\Live at CBGB's \album before one. of their songs on that anthology. She does not really have a \Brooklynese\ accent to which those who have see~ her in the movie Hair can attest. The Shirts have already released three albums on Capitol Records, their most recent one being \Inner Sleeve.\ \Street Light Shine \ their second album, was one ~f WPLJ-FM's top 95 albums sold in the New York City area for 1979. However, their popularity does not confine itself to New York. They have been well recieved in New England and Florida, and experienced a very successful summer concert tour in Europe, where they even reached the number one position on the Austrian record charts. ~n ~971 Art La Monica, a gmtarist., !and Robert Racioppo, the bassist, played together in a band called Lackeys and Schemers, which was also a B r o o k 1 y n • b a s e d ba n d . LaMonica explained how he m.et Golden at a bar in Bay R1dge. \We were singing together, and I thought she had a good voice, so I said, 'You should get yourself in a band.' · Not MY band, of course, because I was already in a band,\ he said with a grin. Lackeys broke up, bat another band with 'Golden as lead singer was formed soon after. They also added another gllitarist Ron Ardito, changed drummer~ to the present John \Zeeek\ Criscione . and later included John Piccolo for their keyboard player, to round out the band. Sfuce they did play a great deal at CBGB's, which is ·commonly known for its \punk\ bands, one might get the im- pression that the mllSic they play would probably be \new wave,\ but they disagree. \We're not really new wave, we're just the Shirts. We're just a band and we just happened to be there (CBGB's), and that was the place to play,\ Ardito pointed out. La Monica then added, \In about '75, '76, when Patti Smith and Television were playing there, that's when it was really new wave, if you're going to call something \new wave\ ... now, new wav~ is tarning into a phase like disco.\ At the present,. the Shirts have decided to break many of their ties, and become; as they like to think of themselves, \free , agents.\ (They are some of the Yankees' biggest fans.) Recently, however, all their ties with Capitol Records were severed, partially because of the overall decline in record sales and tl1e monetary losses resulting from this. There was very little financial support given to them during their European tour. Also, no song was released as a single from their most recent album 1 and the decision on whether or not to release one was delayed several times, thus causing much anxiety. However, the Shirts feel that with their nex:t record company, they would have a better chance Qf making sure that things could get done faster and more efficiently. Ardito stressed this, saying, ''It's probably the best thing for. us, because it didn't make any sense for us being on a record company that was acting that way.'' One major observation of this band is that they are very close knit, on stage, in the studio, and in the street. In performance, they have a great rapport with their aadience and have fun With ·their music. Their concerts reveal how personable they are. Their closeness leads to a lot of joking. In discussing their music, LaMonica revealed with a laugh that \actually all our riffs are Jethro Tull played backward.\ . ;\\it,.., . . ~ f, i ...... M!).ti ol'*..._ '\'<S>' More seriously, they are, as Rontng Stone said, a \democratic\ band. All of the members write songs, and even though this means that there is no one. distinctive style, they would have it no other way. Ardito pointed out, \there are different styles ... It just gives us the chance for all of us to grow independently, and it's good for us to do it that way; we like it.\ Rock and roll from Brooklyn:The Shirts Basically, their music cannot be classified as anything other than just \rock\, since as Piccolo stated, \We're all street musicians; we're not ac- complished musicians who went to school. We've learned through the years, and our learning has become our teachers, with the Beatles, the Stones and Bowie; we've learned from them.\ Although they play all their own material on stage, they will, once in a while, play their rendition of the Rolling Stones' song \Jumpin' Jack Flash\ as a final encore, showing that they like other bands, too. They have grown up listening to these bands, and that can subconsciously in- t1uence them. (\Hey we buy their albums, too.\) Good RocKihn Roll Music The Shirts greatly enjoy other rock groups, and have developed their own styles from these others. The Shirts are a group from Brooklyn who love rock music and lo~e to play it. There will be an interview with the Shirts on WRUC, May 12, at 9:00 p.m. and the following morning at 8:00 a.m. By TREND and ROCKY This past Sunday night The Greg Kihn Band performed at\ J.B. Scott's in Albany. The San Francisco based band took the stage and opened the show with a cover version of Springsteen's Rendevous. They followed this with most of their latest album, \RocK.ihn Roll:'y Kihn on twelve string guitar and vocals, was backed solidly by lead guitarist Dave \the slave\ Carpender, Steve Wright on bass, Larry· Lynch on drums, and ''the mysterious\ Gary Phillips on Keyboar¢;. The mellow, but enthusiastic audience was most receptive to Sheila and Can't Stop Hurting Myself, both of which have received airplay ·recently. After a run of the new album, the band agreed to do an earlier request, and · played Madison Avenue off the \Greg Kihn Intellectual Cabaret What is art? A picture of sunbathers on Richmond beach? A production of \Noah's · Nott?\ A Picasso print? The layout of Concordy'? A perfectly executed double play? A canvas by Rembrandt? Viewing their final touch with delight, pranksters, painters, and even pledges have ap- praised the newly painted Idol as a work of \art.\ But, it is a safe bet that the man who donated it so many years ago would not agree with this ap- praisal of the florescent Idol. So, what is art? Leo Tolstoy wrote that art is an attempt \to make that un- derstood and felt which, in the form of an argument, might be incomprehensible and inac- cessible/' Then again, we must sympathetically note that Tolstoy never saw the Idol, or a .picture of sunbathers on Rich- mond beach, etc. If you've read this far, you probably will enjoy the topic of the next Intellectual Cabaret: what is art and its purpose? Professor Robbins, (Chairman of the Arts Department), and other members of i:he faculty will be on hand to discuss their Views and those of the audience. Whether you have ideas to express, or you just want to sit back and listen, you are invited to attend. The Cabaret will be held Monday, May 11, at 9:00 p.m. in the Cabaret room. As always, refreshments will be s~ed. Union College Concert Committee Presents the 2nd Annual '~NIGHT OF COMEDY'' TUESDAY, MAY 12th AT 8:00PM Union College Memorial Chap.el 1 Tickets: Wnh College I. D. $1.{)0 Tickets Available at Carnegie Hall Student Activities Office · . I . Again\ LP. This classic rocker brought the audience to life and soon the area in front of the stage was filled with dancers. The auQience was not ready to be let down at this point, so the band kept right on rocking with Valerie. It was easy to see how important Kihn's band is, as he stepped out of the spotlight to let Larry Lynch sing The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence, from the \Glass House Rock\ album. This song, and Lynch's per- formance in general were high points of an evening that turned out to have very few low points. The brief rest was all Greg Kihn needed as he came back with two more cuts from the new album to end the set. The. audience rushed the stage and demanded more. - Kihn responded with. a version of Summertime 'Blues, and one 1 more song, but that was it. The aadience was reluctant to let ,, Kihn leave, but after playmg at an outdoor concert in New Paltz that afternoon, the band couldn't take any more. The Greg Kihn Band came to J .8, Scott's to play rock and roll, and they did it well. The energy that Kihn performed with was at times too much for the small crowd at the show. It is disturbing that a· band ·with such strong rock roots did not draw a larger audience. One has to wonder why Kihn doesn't have a larger appeal and why his records don't sell well. ~aybe he is too serious about his music to be invoived i.n the music industry's commercial rat race. (After talking to him, this seems doubtful.) -On the other hand, maybe the reasons lie in the promotional problems. In any case,. if you want to hear some great rock and roll, try picking up some Greg Kihn albums. You won't be disap- pointed. . ' AT THE PUB FRIDAY: Beef & Brew 5-7 pm Happy Hour 6-9 All House Drinks $1.00 EVENING All one shot Amaretto Drinks SATURDAY EVENING: ·Outlaw BeerBa.nd 90~ ~tarting 1 0:.30 TU~SDAY: Mitch Frazier appearing 9:00-1 :30om COME ON DOWN ------~---------------~------, Dutch Hollow Pizza Shop Special--SOc oH every 8-cut cheese pizza on deliveries e~nd pi~kups. I I I I I I I I 1 Valid May 7 thru May 14 L - - . I ----- ... - ... ---- --- ~-- --- ~·-- ..... - .... _ ...._-- o- Cab< the u stituti~ where for so tertai within andR: many than tl havec perfo1 Tburs' was, Cabar beauti The: DiCon one c perf or • Bill ·>- .Q 0 -a .c: 0.. Vice eageri E

at to and The for not One why bout the the bear try I -- OONOOBDIENSIS, May ,\f 1981 Page 9 ~rts & Culture Our Last Hope (and Decker) ByPLG Cabaret has Qecome one of the most entertaining of in· stitutions on campus. l rnean, where else. can you get so much fot· so little in the way of en· tertainment. As institutions within an institution, Rich Hope and Rich Decker have provided many Cabaret-goers with more than their money's worth. 'l'hey have delivered consistently fine performances, and last Thursday was no exception. It was, unfortunately, their last Cabaret performance but it was beautiful. They had as their emcee Bill DiConza, who rnay himself be one of the consistently best performers that Cabaret offers. ~ Bill DiConza's impressions are at th.eir worst, good,. and at their best, unbelieveable. His repitoire is very well rounded, Bill being able to incorporate . many characters from television addition to the wonder.fully satirical political impressions. Not only are Bill's mimicking skills highly polished. but the material that he comes up with ts as well. Rich Hope and Rich Depker in many ways epitomize the kind of acts that Cabaret is best known for.· Their own com· positions, Praying Mantis and Don't LetThem Get Your Heart were both amusing and moving .a11d very well received by the audience. Tpeir opening number was the Beatle.'s Back in the U;S.S.R. The fact that they would lead with suclt a well known song is a good reflection of the confidence and professionalism that they exude in their act. The Grateful Dead is the source for many of their songs. Particularly enjoyable were the renditions of Brown Eyed Women and a personal favorite, Tennessee Jed. Their voices and guitar skills did both of the songs justice and were the high point ·Of the show. While both Mr. Hope and Mr. Decker have. promised to appear in other campus functions before the year .is out, it was nonetheless .their last appearance at Cabaret and was one that will contribute to the long list of excellent performances that they have provided for those of us who were fortunate enough to have seen them perform. Thanks Rich and Rich. Compost Cooks One of the more popular Parent's Weekend events is Cabaret. Parents and students were treated to one of the hottest new musical groups on campus: Compost. Compost is composed of Irwin Mencken on bass, John Sciortino on trumpet and french horn, Prof. Tid- march on guitar, Prof. Rosen on piano, and Vice-President D' AI1drea on drums. They were hot. They cooked. Their selections were well chosen, Rich Decker and Rich Hope put on a great show between beers ... or did the beers put on a show between them? .from Take the A Train to St. Thomas, the numbers were relatively well known and were executed majestically. The strength of the group lies in the twofold ability of its members to blend together beautifully on a particular theme and then to take off on their own respective solos. The only time that this so, so, solid jazz group broke their pattern was for their encore. At the insistence of the audience, Compost was requested to play one more song. Falling back on a rock and roll classic, Prof. Tichnarch led the group in a rousing rendition of Johnny B. Goode. The audience ate it up. Lets hope that this is hardly the last thaf\ we'll see of this group. Demetra Pontisakos, Tom Farrell and Carmen Martinez provided the second_ act of the evening. The audience was immediately responsive to their efforts, due largely to the nature of their material. They were singing show tunes. The best interaction between the three performers was seen in the number from the show, A Chorus Line, entitled \Nothing .. \ Their voices, well versed in theatrical. music, handled that and the other songs with ease. Also amusing and enjoyable were the displays of personality on the part of the three performers. They can best be described as colorful individuals who have a lot to offer any audience. Emcee for the show was Dan Lacoff who provided a great atmosphere of class for the evening. His singing and rap- port with the audience exem· plified exactly what it is that an emcee should do. Even though he couldn't get Dean Kaplan to sing, he set the tone for the show and contributed to a show that provided a good time for everyone present. ·>- .Q 0 ... 0 .c: a. Dance Club Delightful ' ~ - < .' { 0 f I , : By DEMETRAPONTISAKOS Vice President D'Andrea and Professor Tidmarch wait eagerly to take the stage. The parent's weekend dance club concert on Saturday was a tremendous success. The en- thusiasm of both the dancers and the audience overwhelmed me the minute I took my seat in the Memorial Chapel. Early in the concert a relaxed and in- formal family atmosphere was estab,oshed and between this atmosphere and the actual talent displayed on stage, everyone seemed to be enjoying himself. 464 State St. wedeliwr Schenectady 374-t81Ul .. The concert opened with \Prokofieff Maidens\ danced to Prokofieff's \Romeo and Juliet\ and choreographed by Union dance instructor Darlene HAVE A SP·ECIAL TIME AT. • • Bon Ia Patisserie is a French Pastry Shop aod prides itself on fine quality and a distinguished product line of baked goods. There are assorted Danish, cream· puffs, sticky buns, tortes, cookies, assorted cheesecakes in addition to other fine. pastries. In addition, Ia Patisserie offers table service at our. • • PASTRY CAF! 1 ' Enjoy slices of cheesecake, cream puffs, tortes and other cakes, Danish and croissants complemented with a cup of coffee, tea or milk. Ia Patisserie also prepares cakes, Appefi f U • _tortes, etc. for your special occasion. · naon Open Tues. • Sat. 8:00 a.m. • 5:30 p.m. open for all 'Just off Brcte~dway' shows at Proctor's Myers. The choreography and the costuming (bright red and bright blue aprons over white) communicated all the sweet- ness and gaiety of an early spring day, and brougfit smiles to the faces in the audience. The next piece was \Studies\ - an invitation into the classroom. Here, the dance club established an intimate relationship with the audience, sharing with us their creative tradition. \Studies\ was (were- there were several studies demonstrated) derived from improvisational exercises from class, and, above all, demon- strated a dancer's need for concentration: the need for an almost ritualistic com- munication between the dan· cers, a pr~cision, an expert muscle control, and a knowledge for one's own and each other's abilities and limitations - a sensitivity - all in relationship to · the music or rhythm (impressively per· formed here by Annette Genovese) which accompanies them. I don't know whether or not it was intended, but \Studies\ seemed to flow right on into the next piece, \ICarus.\ This free- spirited dance preceeded by \Studies\ - this juxtaposition • seemed to suggest to- to remind • the audience how much work and sweat, control and con· centration it takes to produce a work of art that can look so spontaneous, so vital. Again, I was pleased to see that the dancers were used to their fullest abilities, but were not forced far beyond their personal limitations. Therefore, the work was clean and impressive. Following \I Carns\ was a solo work, \Prayer to Aphrodite\ danced by Union senior, Halina Gajewski. It is apparent that Halina has been dancing for a long time: with a 'COnfident and poised air and a piercing warmth in her manner, she combined delicacy with regality in a beautiful solo ballet piece choreographed by Darlene Myers. Highly skilled, Halina danced her way into the hearts of all of the audience members. In contrast to \Aphrodite\, the concert closed with \Collideascopic\, a moder· nistic piece choreographed by Guest\ choreo g·rapher, Jeanette Stoner, from New York City. The piece - first performed at New York University is the choreographer's reaction to the work of Emile Nilde- a Gennan abstract expressionist painter whose art work is similar to that of Wassily Kandinsky. Ms; Stoner's attachment was to Nolde's use of bright colors on a bright background, and how these colors interrelated. The dance was introduced as \whimsical and bizarre,'\ and whimsical and bizarre it was! The dancers, in their brightly · colored leotards, created a dynamic, positive tension • a tension the audience seemed to relish. Nolde's painting came alive on stage - the bright colors confronted each other, clashed, fought with one another, and yet \danced\ with each other, made peace, conununed - tbe same way they would in tbe twist$ and turns of paint in an abstract expressionist painting. The atlJlosphere was eerie, illusionistic, and the Judirnce was left in awe as the ~.:olors disappeared off the pallet one by one, seemingly vanishing into thin air before our very eyes, as the concert came to a close. I commend the dance club on a job very well done. All aspects of the concert were impressive, including the smooth-running tech (i.e. the presentation of musical accompaniment) Thank-you, dance club, for a phenomenal spring afternoon. .t\nd, yes, you have proved in· deed that dance exists at Union College. Bravo!

... Ill c ... Ill .J Ill > Ill +- IJ) ~ 0 0 .J:. n. Page 10 OONOORDIENSIS, May 7. .. 1981 Nine Beat UCC By LINDA GUTIN The Union College women's softball team has qualified for the New York State Tour- nament to be held this Friday and Saturday (May 8 and 9) at Albany State. It will mark the first appearance for the Dut- chwomen in the event since the program was started in 1975. \I'm very pleased,\ safd an excited Jane Hopkins, who is in her second year· of coaching at Union. \The girls worked very hard all year long and it has paid off.\ Union, which is seeded fourth in the event by virtue of its 5-3 record, will play · host Albany State in a 9:30 a.m. contest on Friday. Union already shows a 1D-4 victory over the Great Danes and will travel to State on Wednesday for its 1981 regular- season finale. The Dutchwomen, who finished with a 5-6 record last year, are currently riding the crest of a four-game winning streak. In the last four contests, Hopkins' team has· outscored its opponents by a 54-17 margin. Union began the year with a heart-breaking 8-7 nine-inning loss to Russell Sage before beating R:PI, 16-10. St. Rose captured a 13~ win before Union beat Albany State, lo-4. Siena's &-2 triumph set the stage for Dutchwomen wins over Skidmore (28-8), New Paltz (a 7-.o forfeit win), Oneonta (5-3) and Ulster CC (21-6). The game against Ulster did not count in the team's record as far as the state tournament was con- cerned. Sophomore Dina Pliotis has been the entire pitching staff for Union this season. She has pitched all but two and two- thirds of the team's 53 innings and owns a 5-2 record with a 3.46 ERA. Junior first sacker Carol Wrenn currently leads the team with a .523 batting average (11 .for 21). She has belted two homeruns (including a grand slam) and has driven in ten runs. Junior catcher Lynn Leblanc is second in batting at .500 (13 for 26) with 10 RBI's. In all, Union has a team batting average of .3~8 (90 for 251) with six of the girls batting over .400 and eight of the players over the .300 mark. UNION C.OLLEG.E SOFTBAll STATISTICS. Player Carol- Wrenn Lynn LeBlanc Ka.ren Roth Kelly Liese Linda Gl!.ltin Carolyn Bigda- Bar-b Bailey Kirsten Peterson • Debbie Downey Dina Pliotis Brenda Hug ick Sheila O'Donnell Lynne Wright Mary Bonk-Vasko TOTALS Player Dina Pliotis Kirsten Peterson TOTALS RESULTS: AB 21 26. 2 24 22 31 9 19 27 24 26 6 12 2 251 IP 50 1-3 22-3 53 H R 11 13 13 l2 1 0 11 10 10 13 13 8 3 3 6 6 8 13 6 6 6 8 1 3 1 2 0 .. 0 90 91 H· 72 7 79 RB·I 10 10· 0 6 8 13 4 2 2 5 6 2 1 0 69 R 51 9 60 AVG. .523 .500 .500 :458 .454 .419 .333 .315 .296 .250 .230 .166 .083 :000 .358 ER 26 4 30 BB 25 3 28 HR 2 1 ·0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 so 17 0 17 Russell· Sage 8, Union 7 (9) -uNION 16, .R PI 10 UNION 28, Skidmore s- UN ION 7, New Paltz 0 (forfeit) UN ION 5, Oneonta 3 St. Rose 13, Union 8 2b 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 i 1 0 0 0 0 0 3 3b 0 1 o· 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 3 ERA 3.64 14.00 3.96 W-L 5-2 o~ 1 5-3 UN ION 10, Albany 4 · Siena 8, Un ien .2 UNION 21( Ulster CC 6 REMAINING GAME: 5-6 at Albany 3:3() Lax Finishing Strong Women's Softball: States-Bound The 1981 edition of the women's lacrosse team enters this afternoon's season firiale as host to Hamilton secure in the knowledge that they have the best record EVER .in the brief, seven-year history of the sport at Union. Coach Marty Morrison, who guided the team to its first winning season last year with 6-5 log, is very pleased with her team's success and eager to end the season with five-game win streak and a &-3 mark. \ I'm very proud of all the girls,\ said Marty. \They have all worked very hard to improve themselves both individually and as a team. At the season- ending banquet last season I told the girls that I thought we could achieve an 8-3 record for '81; now that goal is well within reach. \We have just three seniors on the team (Buthaina Shukri, Mary Beth Burnett and Nancy Colt) and though their loss will be felt next season, I expect that ·~ <'it Women's laxter Nancy Schuster we can equal this year's record of 8-3 and possibly improve to 9- 2. I'm also looking· forward to competing in the New· York State Tournament in 1982.\ Why would 8-3 he good enough to qualify for States in 1982 when Union was not invited this year? Coach Morrison ex- plains: \I felt bad for our seniors that we didn't make it, but to be perfectly honest, I didn't think · that we were ready for them as a team this year. At the time of selection, we were only 2-2 against qualifying teams; that is, teams that are members of the Association of Inter- collegiate Athletics for Women (AlA W). In two of those games, Skidmore and Wells, we only won by one goal and did not play well in either game. IIi the other two games, Army and Hart- wick,· we lost by eight and two goals respectively. Taking all things into consideration, we were ranked lOth, two short of qualifying. \It is probably better for our program that we did not get invited this year,\ Marty continued. \Next year we will have the depth to play com- petitively. I don't think we would have gotten killed by anyone this year if we had gone, but I don't think..we would have won our opening-round game.'' The women's lax team can tune up for next season and next season's state tournament starting tonight. Hamilton, which will be on Library Field for the 4 p.m. game, was the third ranked team for this year's state event. Despite the fact the Continentals lost both their games, coach Morrison feels that a win today will give the state selection comimttee something .to think about for next year. \If we can beat Hamilton this afternoon, it will help for next year's states. Besides it wo_uld be nice to end with five-straight wins and it would show people around the state that our program has reached a solid level of competitiveness. · To equal this season's record next season will be a challenge for the Dutchwomen. Next year's schedule will have th.e University o( Rochester on 1t and possibl;y Williams to go along with powerhouses.. Hart- wick, West Point, Middlebury and Wells. Uniorf will have its top four scorers of the last two years returning next season. Sophomore Holly Bowar? h~s a Uni.on record 42 goals gomgmto the finale. Junior Sheryl Katz bas netted 22, while sophomore Emily Monosson has 17 a_nd Junior Liz Garcia s1x. Sophomore Debbie Goldberg will be looking to add to her season total of four. Also back next year will be sophomore netminder Sue Bloomberg, who has given up 71 goals while making 136 saves. \Sue has put in a lot of extra practice time trying to improve herself,\ said Marty. \She had never pla·yed Varsity goal 1>e£Me tms year and has come a long way this year.\ So has the women's lacrosse pcp.gram here at Union. The Union College women's varsity softball team.continued its winning streak by beating Ulster :Community College 21.;() on Friday. Although. the final score doesn't show it, both Union and Ulster played a very tight game until the fifth inning. The score going into the fifth inning was 4-3, in Ulster's favor. But then, shortly after a tremendous spirit-raising cheer given by the boisterous . women's lacrosse team, Union's bats exploded. The team had a total of 17 hits, in~ eluding a grand slam homerun by centerfielder Carolyn Bigda (3-5), and a 2-run homerun by catcher Lynn LeBlanc (1-3). other hits were contributed by shortstop Deb Downey (3-5), first basemen Carol Wrenn (2- 4), designated hitter Linda Gutin (2-4), third basemen Kelly Uese (3-5), and right fielder Kirsten Peterson (1-4). Pitcher Dina Pliotis was 2 for 4, coming out of her hitting sltunp in style by driving in 3 runs. Defensively Pliotis pitched another great game, and now has a very impressive 3.64 earned run average. In the outfield leftfielder Brenda Hugick proved her fielding prowess again by throwing out a TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 runner at tpe plate. Anotber highlight of.the gam~ was when right fielder Kitsten Peterson made an outstanding shoestring catch. And yet another highlight of the ,game was when the field umpire mi~akenly called a not- too-easy pop up an infield fly, and caused a lot of confusion on the field. Union coach Jane Hopkins then showed her stuff by yelling at and pestering the umpire. After the game he admitted that he might have made a mistake.and that he was glad that the two runs that we lost weren't crucial to the outcome of the game. Through a series of Sunday night phone calls the members of the team found out that the team had made the states and was seeded fourth. The entire team is looking forward to the state championships being held at Albany State. Union plays its last season game away against Albany State, and then plays Albany State again Friday morning in the first round of the tournament. The Union team has never played any of the three teams seeded above it in the. tournament. As of now the team has a .358 average and is expecting to make a strong showing in the championship. Call Days Evenings & Weekends Albany Center 163 Delaware Ave. Delmar, N.Y. 12054 439-8146 For InformatiOn About Other Centers In More Than 85 Major US Cities & Abroad Out.side NV State CALL TOLL ·FREE: 100-223•1782 - D Tt com ThUI Gyn eacl min the Me! Dea Johl V4 to f chaJ divi was and the the mOI Car Sou Bef, tha1 Air spr~ sta1 the: sho the jab birr De! ex}J finE AH Ail! mu um '1 dec 180 pit1 Wa inl l t Ad raJ m( to Co As ] ba foi

en fS p. ... Ql c: ... j Ql > . II) a; ~ 0 0 ,, OONOORD{ENS(S, May .·7, 1981 Pagen Sluggers Notch Two Victories By GEORGE OBERSTADT During the past week the Dutchmen used powerful hitting to take two out of their three games. The Union bats scored 12 runs twice in beating Colgate 12-7 and,Middlebury 12-0 while coming up on the short end of a 6-5 gam~ against. Middlebury . captain and catcher,. sophomore George Oberstadt, was lost for the season with a broken leg. _They used a powerful 8-run second inning and the pitching of Glenn KinDs to set. back ·their division III rival. Ahead by a score ·Of 3-2 -a On Tuesday, Union paced Colgate and came away with a 12-7 triumph. ln the first inning, however, Union- suffered a serious blow, when the .t~am going to batinthe second, Union exploded for 8 runs, blowing the game open with big hits c_oming from Tod F obare, Steve Goll, Dan Thompson, Ed M()riarity, and Joe Weed. Colgate at- tempted a late rally, but the superior pitching of Glenn Kinns kept them in check, giving up just 2 earned runs. Having big days for Union were Joe Wood with 3 hits, and Ed Moriarity and Steve Goll with two hits each. Dan Thcmpson and Tod Fobare blasted triples defense wasn't solid in this game committing 5 costly errors. It appeared that Tod Fobare had come up with the game-winning hit by breaking a 4-4 tie in the bottom of the sixth with a towering solo homerun. But, the Dutchmen couldn't hold the one-run lead giving up two runs in the bottom of the seventh on a clutch double by Middlebury's Tom Laughinghouse. Tod Foba·re also added a single to his efforts and Ed Moriarity added· two hits and 2 RBI's. Dellbero doubles up Middlebury runner. Intramural Boxing Finals The nightcap was all UniDn as tbey jumped out to a 4-0 lead in the first at bat on Joe WDod's grand slam homerun. This was more than enough runs for Glenn Kinns who pitched a sparkling one-hitter which included two strikeouts. The win was Glenn's second in a I.\OW. Union went on to score eight more runs, led by clutch .performances from Al Dilibro and Andy Dreher. By DAVE PACE The finals of the men's box:ing competition took place last Thursday night in the Alumni Gym. There were three bouts each consisting of three, two minute rounds. The judges for the evening were: John McNamara, Tom Fashouer. Dean Kellett, and Bob Driscoll. John Montanile was the referee. Vern Wetmore was supposed to fight Dave Zaltas for the championship' of the .flyweight division. However; Wetmore was unable to make the fight and Dave Zaltas was declared the champion. In order to give the capacity crowd , their money's worth, Zaltas faced Carl Aikens from second floor South in an exhibition match. Before the fight, rumors saying that Aikens had fought for the Air Force Academy were being spread. As soon as the fight started, it was obvious that these rumors were true. Aikens showed very good boxing form the entire fight. He used a left jab very effectively which set him up for a right hook delivery. Despite this disadvantage in experience; Dave Zaltas did a fine job of blocking most of Aikens' punches. However, Aikens' expel'ience was too much to handle as he won a unanimous decision. The second fight of the night decided the , lightweight (160- 180) champion. The match pitted Brian Walck against Jeff Walber. Walck, who is training in the martial arts, used these skills to great advantage. Both fighters came out strong early in the fight. Walck used his quickness acquired·from karate to block a nwnber of Walber's punchesand was able to counter with devastating combinations. He won the first round easily. The second round started out evenly. Near the end however, Jeff Walber seemed to come on very strong. He won the round . according to three of the five scorers. Early in the third round, Walck put together a couple of beautiful com- binations and was able to hold on for th~ victory. The final fight of the evening matched Jeff Feigleson against Bob Hawkes for the lightheavyweight champion- ship. '!be first round was a close ·one. Hawkes stuck to his strategy which was to charge at Feigelson and use his strength to pound away at his opponents body. He did not want Feigelson to have the opportunity to use his tremendous reach ad~ vantage. Feigelson did connect on a few occasions in the first round and was able to draw a little blood from Hawkes' nose. After consulting with trainer Mitch Zuckoff inbetween rounds, Feigelson' decided that he would back peddle when Hawkes charged and use his reach to hit Hawkes' un- protected head. Jeff did just that and connected on numerous occasions. This continued in the third round. About midway through the final round, Hawkes' nose started Licht Ranked Second Union College sophomore Adam Licht is the second· ranked runner for the 5,000 meters in Division II according to the latest New York State . Collegiate Track & Field Association poll. Licht achieved his ranking based on his 14:48.8 per- formance in the Penn Relays on . ~ ~~ $1NCE J937 -April23 in which he set a Union College school record under extremely poor weather con- ditions. Paul McGovern of Fitchburg State College is currently the No. 1 ranked Division III 5,000 meter runner with a time of 14:41.4. 1115 BARRETT ST • SCH~NECTAD Y PHONE 377-2642 or 382-8684 Homesfyle Ita I ian Cooking Salad Bar Included with All Pasta & All Dinners Reasonable prices · Pl11s a, 10% Discount to Union College Students with IDs Banquet Facilities bleeding worse. By this time, he was very tired. Feigelson took advantage of this and continued to land .punches to his opponents head. With 31 seconds remaining in the fight, -Bob ·Hawkes was finding it difficult to breath through his bloody nose. John Montanije noticed this right away and stopped the fight. Feigelson was awarded a TKO and won his second championship in two years. Everyone involved in this event would like to thank Tom Collette and Gary Wennar for all of the time they spent in organizing this successful event. in the game. · On Saturday, Union split a doubleheader against Mid- dlebury College, losing the firli!t game 6.0 but coming back to win the second game 12..(). In the first g'ame Wayne Riker pitched well but came up with a sore arm and a bit of a tough decision. The Dutchmen Union closes out the season With 7 games in 7 days. They must not lose any if they hope to obtain a birth in the E.C.A.C. tournament. Support Union Sports Game of the Week: Intramural Softball By DAVE PACE This weeks men's softball game of the week was played Sunday afternoon under blue skies on Union's library field. The game matched the Beavers (7-0) against ZBT a (5-0). Both teams are leading their respective divisions in the A league. The Beavers went down quickly in the top of the first inning. In the bottom of the same inning, Bob Zinnershine hit a long triple with one out for ZBT. However, the Beavers were able to get out of the jam as Wayne Penazek and. Andy Resnick both flew out. It seemed as though it was going to be a close battle · for the number one spot in A league but the Beavers soon proved this prediction wrong. They put together six hits and took ad- vantage of a ZBT err·or to score six runs in the top of the second. There was not any more scoring until Joe Clinton led off the ·fourth inning with a long home run to right-center field for the Beavers. The visiting team scored two more runs in that inning to take a 9.0 lead. Paul Rieschick, the Beavers' pitcher, lost his hid for a shutout in the fifth inning. After .a single by ZB'l' first baseman Brian Bouck, Maury Storch hit a deep fly ball to right field. With the help of an embarrasing blunder by the right fielder (who has requested to remain nameless) , Maury 'Was able to round all of the bases. The Beavers' added one more run in the last inning and ~went on to win their eighth game without a loss. The MVP award was given to Joe Clinton for his outstaJ:J.ding performance. Joe went three for four with two runs scored and two RBI's to go along with his fine defensive play in left field. Dave Popp, the ZBT left fielder and Paul Rieschick were both named the defensive players of the game. Popp made eight putouts in left incl11ding two towering fly balls by John Montanile which sent Dave back to the left field wall. Rieschick did not allow any earned runs, allowed only five hits the entire game, and made a few spectacular stops of blistering shots hit back up the middle. Athlete of the Week By MIKE SHARP Glenn Kinns, ace pitcher for the Union Dutchmen, has been chosen as Miller Athlete of the Week. His recent outl!ltanding performances against Colgate and Middlebury have insured him thiS honor. This season Glenn leads the Dgtchmen with six starts, five of which he .has gone the complete distance. He has pitched an inlpressive forty-six and one third innings, giving up thirty-three singles, six doubles, and one triple, for . seventeen earned runs. His talented pit- ching has resulted in thirty- eight strikeouts and only thirty walks, while also an impressive 3.32 ERA. This week Glenn demolished Middlebury with a one hit and ten strikeout complete game performance in the twelve to zero Union win. Recently, he went the distance in a twelve to seven victory over Colgate, anowing only six. hits and striking out eight, wbile only giving up two earned runs. Glenn is a biology major from -..Burnt Hills, N.Y. where in high school he was an ace hurler for two years. Glenn had an impressive 5-4 record for the Dutchmen last season and we wish hinl the best of luck in continuing his out- standing performance. Athlete of the Week Glenn Kinns

SPORTS HAPPENINGS May7-l3 Varsity Lacrosse May 7 at Hobart May 9 at Colgate May 13 Albany St. May 8 Albany St. J..V. Lacrosse Varsity Baseball Men's Tennis Outdoor Track Women's Lacrosse Varsity Golf May Bat Rocheste.r May 9at Hobart May 9 Bing.hamton May.B & 9 N.Y. States at Alfred May 7 Hamilton May Bat Middlebury Ruggers Score Victory By MICHAEL SHARP This Saturday, in front of an avid Parent's Weekend rugby crowd, the Union College Rugby Club won a startling upset victory over the heavily favored Schenectady Reds. ·The Reds, coming off a first place finish in the Upstate Rugby Union tournament where they won five games in two days, were expecting an easy victory. But, the Garnet Ruggers came onto the field hitting hard, forcing the Reds to make many mistakes. The serum led by co-captain Craig Bell and seniors Jim Heminway and Andy Audet, kept tremendous pressure on the Red scrummies. The result was an early -Union score, by wing forward Jody Karbin. Soon after, Eric Serrilli doing an excellent job filling in at the injury ridden serum half position, fired the ball to the line and wing Paul Cunningham scored on a seventy yard touch- down run. Andy Audet handily kicked the point-after for two t more points, and the half ended ~ with Union ahead 10-o. .... c: prevented the Reds from scoring. Playing superb rugby, the line of Tom Conway, Jack Snapkowski, and Joe Cardino executed several dazzling passes to tally the final Union score with an eight yard dive by Cardino. The final whistle sounded with a 14.{) Union victory. While downing the post game beers both sides agreed that it was a great game. Union looks for- ward to an easier win next Saturday against arch-rival RPI. The confused and angry Red ~ ruggers mounted an early £ second half attack, but a combination of smart kicking ~ by fullback Tommy Glynn and -5. hard hitting by scrummers Wayne Godlin and Kevin Taylor Battle for the ball in the Serum. Sports at Union: Contentment or Corrlm:ittm,ent ByDANLEFF and RICH HOPE In the 1930's and 40's, colleges and universities existed for a smaller percentage of this country's population. Tran- sportation. was . at a less sophisticated level than it is now, consequently, more people attended local colleges. These were fewer problems associated with attracting well rom1ded students to institutions of high academic standing such as Union College. Since then, -the number of colleges and universities has grown, the number of people attending schools has in- creased, transportation has become more sophisticated, more students travel from home to attend school, and therefore, the competition for applicant pools has increased among many of the colleges and universities in the country. Different institutions- exist and operate for varying reasons but they all desire essentially the same things. These are mainly, a large and diversified applicant pool. An enthusiastic college COinll1unity, a high level of facUlty and alumni support, good academic standing, and good graduate _ school placement. Union College exists as a high standing academic institution that bas excellent graduate school placement. It is also a school that is not very well publicized in the high schools throughout this country and draws a majority Df its ap- plicantsfrom New England and New York. Also, many people apply to Union as a safety valve from the Ivy League Scllools. These circumstances result in the situation that currently exists at Union. A relatively homogerous applicant pool and student body, a low level ·Of school enthusif;lsm and pride, poor Alumni interest and more importantly, at the base of these problems, losing athletic teams. If losing athletic teams are in part. a cause of the aforemen- tioned problems, then what is the reason for the poor athletic programs? This may be an- swered simply by the fact that the school is either unwilling or incapable of making the total commitment to ensure solid athletic programs. This . tut- willingness or incapability le!!ds many people to believe that the infLuential people -associated with Union College are content with the current situation at this school. These attitudes cause many problems that range from the lack of sufficient facilities, to a poor recruiting system, and even- tually to poor athletic representation. ·coaching staff ·to wor~ -with, poor public relations. to high schools, and eventuallY the loss of excellent. student•atbletes to schools, .of ·equal academic standing, thathavemade atotal commitment to athletics. We simply cannot compete with these schools that have excellent facilities, terrific alumni and faculty support, amazing school spirit (since the students have a point around which they can rally their en- thusiasm), an administration that is helpful _to the athletic staff, and eventually, winning and prosperous athletic programs. It is a perpetual cycle th~t feeds on itself. A winning athletic program at- tracts more people of every type. Stick~men Crush Hamilton Recruiting is a serious problem that confronts everyone associated with Union. · It is essential to the building of successful athletic programs but we must realize the neccessity to retain a diversified group of students. There are two ways in which a strong athletic program can be built. Firstly, we can prostitute ourselves and the school by admitting athletes who are not academically suited to be at Union, or secondly, we can admit a larger number of student-athletes to Union; the latter of which is the only feasible solution to our problem. Let us suppose that the Union Administration were to make thJs important commitment. After some very hard work, Union would have winning athletic teams. The students would have- something in common with which they. could share, school\spirit would rise at an ever increasing_ rate, and student's enthpsiasm ·for \their\ Union College would be carried with them for their entire lives. Alumni would· become more concerned with increasing the standards of the people coming to Union, they would donate more money to every aspect of the school, and most importantly, they would be more genuinely concerned with Union College and what goes on here. The school's publicity would increase and so would ,the applicant pool, not only in size, but in diversity as well. A winning .athletic program is an extremely ipexpensive form of first class publicity. These increases could only benefit the school and the college community as the ad- ministration would have a larger and more diversified group. of applicants to choose from. Lastly, the school could support winning atbletic programs while maintaining its high academic standing and excellent graduate school placement. As mentiQ:ned, Q:r:tce started, this is a cycle that Would perpetuate itself and create a more enjoyable at- mosphere to live within. By STEVE MYERS This past week, the Union lacrosse team hosted teams from Williams and Hamilton Colleges. On Wednesday, the $trong, talented Ephmen from Williams came in to Schenec- tady to tally another victory. The Dutchmen, however, thought differently, due to last year's bitter loss 15-14 by a deflected shot in overtime. With the loss of captain and lead scorer, Sean Durham, the team needed to find strength elsewhere on the team. Having their familiar starting problems, Union fell behind by several goals, as Williams went ahead 8-2, a~ halftime ap- proached. Determined not to lose hope, the Garnet team struck back with a few goals but could not prevent Williams from running up the score. Even though John Mercer did a good job, in the goal and of- fensive success in the form of solo goals from Mike Maluccio, Mark Sockerson, James Bono, Larry Salberg and Don Beal, sparked the Dutchmen, Williams strolled to a 15-5 victory. On Saturday, it being Parent's Weekend, the Union laxmen were determined to show that their still existed high potential on the squad before the concerned and waiting crowd, as they entered the game against Hamilton Colleg~. Union jumped out to an early lead of 3.{), until Hamilton finally delivered their first goal. The Dutclunen continued to dominate as the halftime score read 10-1, in favor of Union. Riding high, the Garnet con- tinued to exhibit exceptional play in all aspects of the game. The defense, composed of captain Rob Fischmann, Dana Johnston and Marty Sands, and a specialized defensive midfield unit managed to protect John Mercer, in the goal, all day, minimizing HamUton's li; possession of the ball. Strong E face\'()ff ability allowed Union's j offense to go to work. The (I) returning Sean Durham ~ managed to tally four goals into en the scorebook as well as pairs of ~ goals by each of Jim Wright, o Steve Myers and Larry Salberg. o Several other solo goals as -5. well as smart, heads-up play with and without the ball, allowed Union to grasp its first victory since returning ·from the spring trip down south. As the final seconds ticked off, the scoreboard . read 15 Union, 4 Hamilton. The team rE!joiced unendingly as high accolades were presented for a game well played. Admitting a larger number of student-athletes would be a nice solution io the problem, but there are many road blocks to pursuing, this course of action. ·At the bottom of these, once again, is the lack of com- mitment. Lacking this, we create a situation that is characterized by-poor facilities, -a low level of faculty and alumni involvement, near impossible conditions for the Jim Wright scoops up the loose ball. In conclusion, Union is a school that is, not very well publicized and therefore, it lacks the drawing power for a diversified student body. Once at_Union, many students enjoy themselves but there is no common rallying point around which the students can draw closer together. This tends to leave many students with an empty feeling about Union that remains with them throtighout their lives. The school seems to have taken a step towards this commitment through _the in- stallation of the multi.,purpose playing field, but it is necessary to carry it even further. l?Ublic relations, recruiting -processes, athletic facilities, and student, faculty, and alumni support must be on the increase so that we can ensure a brighter future for Union College. SUPPORT UNION ATHLETICS 1.. 4l ifJ 0 1.. ill >- 1l c ~ >- .0 0 ..,_ 0 .J: a. - Vo - - --- '.'\~ ·. liJi Weh l CN Uni< film rece Cow and Was anm hon1 are• van1 Unii awa film ~ Rot mo' 1 AU lec1 \E Go' to Me CUI Dii Pl~ the lob Sta '] iSS I dis Lel br< as fev tic1 wil tali sh de'

FitzHugh Ludlow Strikes Again! . . Alma Mater Author Makes Third Annual Appearance Saturday, May 9th, FitzHugh Ludlow makes his third annual return to Union ,College. Each year FitzHugh honors an esteemed graduate of the college. His first year, due either to conceit or Jack of originality, FitzHugh honored himself. Last year, after much debate, he decided to be more traditional and honor $0meone other than . himself: Squire Whipple, designer of the Squire Whipple Truss Bridge (named after Squi.J.:e Whipple). This year FitzHugh outdid himself in taking upon himself the great task of honoring two . Union worthies: William H. Seward and Robert Augustus Toombs. my idols; I have hardly seen the time, even when my prospects in a worldly point of view were most flattering, when I would not have abandoned them to the pleasantest home of my life.\ But certainly it is not Fit- zHugh's love for Union which makes him such a great person; it is what he did for Union that makes him worthy. Among the many poems and songs he wrote for and about Union College ise the Alma Mater, '.'Ode to Old Union.\ that, again according to Niemeyer, ''College food was poor, and digestive ailments were common\ (that should certainly give one a better appreciation for the quality cuisine available today). Basically, although an average student at Union, FitzHugh Ludlow always remained tremendously loyal to his college and he left his eternal mark here ('''Ode to Old Union\}. It gives one a sense of pride to realize that in having an annual FitzHugh Ludlow Day the wish of the man who wrote, \I should have been very glad [f Union had ever appeared to care for my connection with her as much as I did,\ is being fuHilled. - Artist and Critic : FitzHugh Ludlow, class of 1856, on Union: \The pleasantest home of my life.\ To have an annual day at Union College named after oneself is certainly a great privilege. Why, you may wonder, has FitzHugh Ludlow been given this great op- portunity to honor deserving Union graduates? Well, con- trary to popular belief it Is not because he has such a common name, or is it because he looks great on T-shirts. FitzHugh is a gentleman who truly deserves this honor. During FitzHugh's two years at Union (he transferred from the College of New Jersey) he lived with his 'Kappa Alpha Brothers on the fourth floor of North College. It's probable that living in North was somewhat problematic in that the security guard downstairs must have been reluctant to let men through the electronically locked doors past 8 p.m., but that did not detract .from Fit- zHugh's love for the college. To an · extent, FitzHugh was not unlike the students of today. Says Carl Niemayer in \Fit- zhugh Ludlow and Union College\: \It was not un- common to arise at 5:00a.m. for a little study before chapel and breakfast.\ But, FitzHugh did have things a little tougher in William J. Stillman - 1848 Five years after FitzHugh's graduation he wrote to Professor Jonathan Pearson: \Union has always been one of Actor and Writer: John H. Payne John Howard Payne (1791· to Europe, where he wrote' more 1852) was a notable playwright plays-.one of which was Clari, and actor from the school of or, The Maid of. MOan, which American playwrights. A included the famous song, precoCious actor and writer, he ''Home, Sweet Home.'' wrote his first play, Julia, or, As you enter Union College, The Wanderer when he was 15. you will notice the words, This play was successful \Home Sweet Home\ inscribed enough to cause hlm to be sent on the gates. Now you know to Union College. But after two why-it is a lasting tribute to one years, he had to leave because of the many famous Union of family finances. . ' College students. After leaving Union he sailed . Home Sweet Home JOliN uow:.um P.\YNE, Union 1812 A charm- from tho ski~s seems to hal low us ,;,;-_with e!se • whore. 2, I Knzo oll·tbo moon as 1 &re11!\ tho drear ~lid, An !I reel t.bat ml' ·motbcr now lblu1n or her eblld; As ~he took on that moon from aur oWD cottag-.o, door, Tbrough th~·woOdbfno ·whose rragr~nte nha.lL' cheer me no mou~ _cliO. :t, An ex ltd rrnrn home, splendor daoz:&lcs In valo, Oh, gi\·t: me, my lowly thatthcd cotli&c .acaln; Tbu birtls slngirJg gail)•• thn.t t.•omc ae my call, • Oi\•c m\J thcnl, and lhal poftcc t!l m.tnll~ode:arer thalta.U ·- CUO. In June of 1848, William J. Stillman graduated from Union College. After he was \finally liberated,\ as he put- it, he went on to make a contribution to the art world that has been un- paralleled by any Union graduate. It was not Stilhnan's desire to attend Union College; however a collective decision made by his family overruled his wishes. Yet, Stillman did not harbor ill feelings for \Union for he stated · that \Union was, at this epoch . . . the third university in the United States, immediately after Yale and Harvard being then, as always, first.\ The only true fault that stillman at- tributed to his alma mater was that it did not give hhn a technical education in the arts. Indeed, Stillmanmay have been better .prepared for his chosen career had be been exposed to the study e>f Art as an un- dergraduate; however, such courses were not commonly fowtd at any American college at that time. Although Stillman blamed UniC>n for not teaching hiin to draw \correctly\ it seems that his true talent was not drawing and painting but rather writing and criticism, and in this area Union prepared him well. While at Union, Stillman became a favorite of President Elipbalet Nott, whom he ragarded as \the greatest teacher of yDung men of his .generation.\ Stilbnan said that Dr, Nott \tried to make usthink and thus bro11ght up every ina tellectual facility I possessed.'' Stillman also noted that Union \was the only American university of importance not under some form of denominational control,\ and added that \the intellectual freedom of movement I acquired, I never lost.\ Having learned to \write effectively, think freely and explore ideas and attitudes,\ Stillman left Union with a new sense of in- tellectual freedom which he applied throughout his career and his life. Following graduaUqn from Union, -stillman went to New York City. In New York, he studied with Frederick E .. Church, - the greatest naturalistic painter of the 1850's. Stillman pursued painting as bis \expression of / .. ' t . . -. t ·,til'' f/1 .· ''f.t. William Stillman, daughter class of 1848, from a drawing by his the love of the beauty of nature.\ \The straight thrust for truth\ was Stillman's phrase for the kind of painting that came naturally for him. Today, Stillman's paintings do not ba!lg ill any American museum. He is known almost exclusively by his painting \The Philosophers' Camp in the Adirondacks\ which is now housed in the Concord Free Public Library in Concord, Massachusetts. Union College o~s one of Stillman's paintings entitled \View of the Dolomites.\ Stillman's merit as an artist is a subject that contin11es to be 1 debated today. However, he is not · a man who will go unrecognized. An energetic, idealistic mm who was aware of the disparity that sometimes existed between his ideas and his work as a P.ainter ~ it is no wonder that Sti11man began to utilize his great fluency for the written word. In 1855, Stillrruul a11d John Durand began the first American art magazine, \The Crayon,\ as a \jol11'1l81 of the arts and literature.\ It proved to be a well-respected, quality publication. Such weD known veterans of American art as Asher Durand and Rembrandt Peale subscribed to the magazine. Also, younger men of Stillman's generation like the l)()ets Bryant and Lowell, the scholars Tom ~ppleton, Charles Elliot Norton, and John Ruskin, and artists like William Rossetti contributed to \The Crayon.\ However, within two years, Stillman was forced to leave the magazine due to exhaustion and overwork. While working for \The Crayon,\ Stillman wrote the majority of the original matter, the editorial articles, and the criticisms as well as essays, correspondence pages, poetry, book notices and a few pages of sketchings. After regaining his health, Stilhnan returned to painting, and the magazine was soon discon- tinued due to lack of funds. Yet, \The Crayon\ remains \one of the periodicals one turns to for insight into the vitality of American intelligence in the mid-nineteenth century.\ Stilhnan was a remarkable critic with extraordinary natural taste. He was a lover of nature and a pioneer in the field of art journalism. It is these accomplishments. which rank William J. Stillman among Union's most worthy.

Page B FITZHUGH LUDLOW DAY, May 71t 1981 For the Union: Secretary of State William Se~ard As· Secretary cumstances. 'l'he situation was There is another aspect of _ •• ·• And Union College - a critical one. To deal with such Seward's secretariat that · By DEXTER PERKINS a _situation successfully deserves some emphasis. Seward came to the great req111red not .only courage but Seward was by temperament an By DOUGLAS W ·CAMPBELL office which he held from 1861· adroitness as well. The e~ansionist. His Qptimism and 1869 without a scintilla of ex- Secretary was equal to the his democratic faith set no perience in the field of in· occ~sion. He favored in the bounds to the growth of the tetnational politics. It is not cabmet the surrender of the United States. His anti-slavery technical excellence that the commissioners. On this po~t he principles came in conflict with country needs most in the was clearer than was the this side of his character in the direct1on of the complex President himself. But when it fifties, buti once the Civil War problems of international life. It came to writing the note in was over, the situation changed. is, on the contrary, that quality which the surrender was con- It was due to him, of c.ourse, that can best be described as ceded, he managed to put the that in 1867 Alaska was pur- political wisdom. It required a matter on .grounds that flat- chased from the RussiaB gift of political mterpretation tered ~me~ican pride, and government. It is to be noted and understanding of the made his actton seem a defense that he was able to secure the popular mood, tJ:te popular of vital American interests. acceptance of the trea~y which aspirations, and the popular There was, perhaps, more brought about this cession from will. Seward knew how to deal · ingenuity than forthrightness in a Senate that was in bitter with politicians, and to know the argument that he managed o.pposition to the ad- how to deal with politicians is to make. He contended that the ministration, and from a not a baa trammg tor dealing United States, in seizing the chairman . <>f the Foreign with diplomats. Indeed, once commissioners, without taking Relations Committee who was again, it has often been a better the Trent itself before a prize by no means of the same mind training than any other. court, was violating the fun- as the Secretary with regard to Seward, · it is true, made dain t 1 Am · · · · · 1 f b- f · mistakes at the outset of his . en a ertcan prmcip e o the pro lems o reconstructiOn. the freedom of the seas. \If I It is also to be noted that at the service in the State Depart- decide this c~e in favor of my time to many people Alaska ment. The fantastic idea of own government,\ he wrote, \I seemed of very little value, and provoking foreign com- must disavow its most was derisively described as plications in order to unify cherished principles, and \Seward's icebox.'' Time has, American opinion at home, and reverse and abandon its however, vindicated the perhaps prevent the coming of a essential policy. The country wisdom of his action. By the civil war, an idea embodied in cannot afford this sacrifice.\ · year 1900 Alaska had yielded fu his ' 'Thoughts for the Con- sideration of the President,\ was -quashed by President Linc()ln in the early days of his tenn. After the first few months he made very few mistakes indeed. He learned quickly how to deal with the great problems which came before him, and the momentous issues of the war period were handled with rare skill after only a .short ap- prenticeship. ·· It was with Seward that there first began the publication, the systematic publication of a large part of the correspon- dence of the State Department, either contemporaneously with the course of policy, or only a little while after policy had been fonned. The great series which was first put forth under the name of \Diplomatic Correspondence of the United States,'' and which later became known as \foreign Relations of the United States,\ begins With his administration. In this correspondence in the years 1861-65 one fact stands out above all others. One of Seward's salient charac- teristics was optimism, and faith in his country. Never was such a quality more badly needed than in the days of the Civil War. Grim as the struggle was, Seward's faith in victory never faltered. His despatches at an times breathed a lofty confidence in the outcome of the struggle. He was never appalled at the thought of a possible European intervention. He was never frightened by European protests at the blockade, or by European flirtations with the representatives of the Southern states. He cast his diplomatic correspondence in such a mold as to elevate and solidify Northern public opinion. Many of his most important state papers ere aimed at the maintenance of morale at horne as milch as the accomplishment of some specific result abroad. We cannot measure their effect in any scientific way, of course, but it seems fair to say that they were an important factor in producing that hopeful view ·of the whole struggle that even- tually conducted to victory. A Secretary of State must deal with practical issues rather than with the issuance of national manifestoes~ Seward met the practical issues of the war period with the greatest skill, and one of the most . striking examples of this skill is to be found in his handling of the case of the Trent. You will remember the essential cir- There is, no doubt, much bom- bast and much doubtful argmnent in Seward's note. But from the practical political point of view it was a document of the first rank. It suited very well the necessities of the situation. And it put an end to the danger of a serious clash with Great Britain. Seward saw in a very sound perspective the importance of the slavery issue in its relation to European opinion. When the question of Emancipation. was first brought forward in the cabinet by President Lincoln in July of 1862, it was the New Yorker who pointed out that the freeing of the slaves at just that time might well be regarded .as a maneuver of despair on the part of the North. It would be well to wait, he argued, for a Northern victory. And wait the administration did. The First Emancipation Proclamation was issued after Antietam. Once it was put forth, the Secretary never ceased to emphasize the significance of what had been done. \The in~ terests of humanity.'' he wrote to .Adams, ''have now been identified with the cause of our country.\ fish, furs, and gold nearly $150,000,000, and the revenue tax on her seal-skins had brought in a sum larger than the purchase price; and, on the strategic side, no one today will doubt the importance of this great outpost towards the Orient. How shall we sum up what we have just been saying? Seward carne to the State Department untried; . his }lolitical gifts soon enabled him to adjust himself to his new post; he was able to sense the feeling of the nation, and to make confident appeal to it; at the same time he knew how to guide and control it; he was aware of American political ideals, but he was also intensely practical; he was capable of decisive action; but he knew, too, when to temporiZe and even concede. He had faith in the future of America, and in the future of democracy~· He justly mingled the appeal to reason and the appeal to feeling. It is by the arts that he practices, by the balance that he maintained, by the high purposes which he pursued, that the people of the United States will be best served in the field of diplomacy. On a September evening in the year 1816, a red-haired lad of fifteen, rather pale and un~ dersized for his age, boarded a steamboat for Albany. Never before had he seen one of ,these new contraptions. Arriving at Schenectady, he \alighted on the bank of the Mohawk River.\ He ate break- fast at Givens' Tavern before walking ''up the hill\ to Union College. The choice of Union College for William's further education had been made by the lad's father, Dr. Samuel S. Seward \on account of the great and growing reputation of its president,\ Dr. Eliphalet Nott. LeaviBg the Tavern and directing his steps toward the college, William.felt doubts and misgivings. What kind of school life was he to expect here? What kind of schoolmasters? Once in the · \office of the register'' at the college, William was ''immediately introduced into the presence of\ the Reverend Thomas McAuley, Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy, for an examination to determine his f:itness. - Professor McAuley found that, while young William had qualified himself to enter the junior class, his age made it necessary to enroll him as a sophomore. The college rules made sixteen the lowest per~ missible age for entering the junior class. Of that day and that decision, Seward writes: \I did not regret the decision. Life at college seemed very at- tractive; and my previous excess of preparation would make my studies easier. Long before night my 'chum' was chosen, my room supplied with the cheap furniture which the college regulations required, and I sat down to meditate, with self-complacency, on the dignity of my new situation.\ His favorite studies are said to have been rhetoric, moral philosophy, and the ancient classics. Whatever his love for the classics, however, it did not prevent his going to his class in Homer 'with a \book of amusement,\ instead of the textbook, on the days whe1i he felt sure that he would not be called upon to recite. In fact it was this schoolboy practice which led to the first of his two withdrawals from college. When William found hinlself called upOn unexpectedly, he refused to recite~ left the classroom, and the college, until the professor should apologize for having changed his procedures without \public notic~\ in advance! Presently the issue as to whose ap()logy was to come ~first, that of the professor or that of Seward, was resolved by the personal in• tervention of Dr. Nott. William returned to college, and Dr. Nott remained his respected friend and counselor long after he entered public life. In later years, Seward spoke highly of the ''sound and wise\ .principles upon which the college rUles and discipline were based, but he said that he could not de> the same for the system of in· struction. He attributed this to the prevailing practice at Union and elsewhere, of giving both the dull and the bright the same mental menu. Toward the end of his junior year, Seward was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. In his autobiography he recounts the arduous road which he and his roommate supposedly followed to win election to this new, secret society which had been chartered during his first year at Union. '''We rose at three o'clock in the morning, cooked and spread our own meals, washed our own dishes, and spent the whole time which we could save from .prayers and recitations, and the table, in severe study, in which we unreservedly and constantly aided each other. 'The fruits of this study were seen in otlr work ... Need I say that we entered the great society without en- counterirlg the deadly black~ ball?\ · According to the calendar, Seward should have finished his work at Union with the class of 1819, a few weeks after his· eighteenth birthday. On January 1, 1819., Seward again left the college suddenly without notice to anyone (including his family). He set out with a classmate for Georgia, where both of them hoped to get jobs in an academy which was being opened there .. In Georgia, Seward took up the directorship of the new academy. Concern for his· mother and sister, however, soon caused a change of heart, with the result that he returned to his family at the end of the winter semester. During the several months which elapsed between his return home and the opening of the second semester at Union (in 1820), he busied himself in a law office. Upon his return to college he was able, despite .some student resentment, to resume_ a fairly prominent position in the student body. He finished his .college career with. highest honors. As evidence of his high standing with his fellows, he was named by the Adelphic Society as one of its speakers and as one of the class managers at the Com- mencement festivities. In concluding this brief ac- count of William Seward's stay at Union College during the tender years from fifteen through eighteen, the point need not be labored that the boy had not yet become the man. His two dramatic withdrawal$ from Union demonstrated that, though docile, he was also determined. His range of ex• perience remained rather limited. His .interest in politics and public issues was already apparent, but his judgments were immature, so that they underwent drastic changes as he moved from \academic retirement'' more directly into the flow of experience as lawyer (he was admitted to the bar in 1822) and as politician (he was elected state senator at the age of 29 and Governor of New York at 37). \His formal education,\ says Professor Edward Everett Hale, Junior, late Professor of English at Union, \was not remarkable, except perhaps insofar as it brought forcibly to mind his inability to speak. in public ... It is a testimony to his determination and ability that in after years he was able to speak, if not with the eloquence of Webster and Clay, at least so as to command the closest attention and keenest interest.\ Elsewhere Professor Hale writes: \Seward probably received from Dr. N ott something of the stamp of character that remained with him through life--the com· bination of practical man and idealist. The two were not unlike in possessing this double character and were further alike in that neither of them could quite manage the com- bination.\ Fo An Arne Wliqt boas1 conc1 State note who StatE PQWE in hi also To atte1 than und~ both expc chie that dist acac insti 1804 belie Rc tran men 1828 avai crec com betv feel sur~ Too1 Tc Fra Geo pref Uni· biO€ Phil the sugl at 1 mm cell stit1 rigc disc bar car pro- the the birr. left esc• and enr Uni coli nat attc wit Ind tim mo Ha1 tril Pre A wa de I are Thl wa, dis the ag1 cla r Pr1 lea wh Ch CaJ the thE sec no1 tin thE ._ Hi: yo1 wi1 sec Crl Ol'l dif l thl de, ral fac Pb

I '~ FITZHU(jH LUDLOW DAY., Ma,y *' 1981 Page.,C For the Confederacy: Secretary of State Robert TOombs By FRED C. COLE Among all the colleges of America, Union College is wtique. No other college can boast of two alumni who served concurrently . a~ S~cretacy of State .. It is indeed interesting to n()te that WUliam H. Sewar~, who as Lincoln's Secretary of State e::x:cerCis~d vastly more power t}lan was ·open to Toombs in his Confederate office, was also a son of Union. President Nott's wiSe intention that \reason and the rules of debate\ sho~d attend these s~ctional. discussions. The split wtdened to the extent that the Delphians, or ''Southerns,\ sat apart f~om the Northern group on tbe commencement plat- form. It is interesting to reflect upon the portent for the future that this divisive gesture suggests. It is not too difficult to draw a parallel between what happened at Union among men . of different sectional heritages and that which occurred on the national scene. At first, there was the mingling of factions, the realization that there weFe differences . of attitudes and beliefs, but a general ac- .ceptance of things as they were. Then the differences grew in Toombs and Seward did not attend Union together, but less than a decade separated their undergraduate careers and both were in large measure exposed to the same influences, chief among them, perhaps, that of Eliphalet Nott, the distinguished· scholar and academician who served the institution as .president from 1804 to 1866, an almost un- believable span of 62 years. Robert Toombs was one of 28 transfer students among the 63 members of Union's class of 1828. If President Nott had had available the vast array of credentials that often ac- company the academic traveler between schools today-and I feel certain he did not-he would surely have accepted Mr. Toombs with some misgivings. · importance, and the .lines of debate and argur.nent were drawn. And, finally, the · secession itself, if you will, of the groups to their ~pecial-area of the graduation stage oc- curre~. Communications, a,rgument, and debate with resulti11g understanding and resolution, were thus impeded. Toombs carne to Union from Franklin CQllege in Athens~ Georgia, an institution that presently was to evolve into the University of Georgia. Toombs' biographer, Professor Ulrich B. Phillips-himself a graduate of the University of Georgia-- suggests that Franklin College at that time was deficient in most areas of collegiate ex- cellence. But what the in- stitution lac}ted in academic rigor, -it made up for in disciplinary stringency, and a hard and fast rule concerning card-playing by students proved Toombs' downfaU-or so the story goes. But displaying the foresight that would serve him well in the future, Toombs left Franklin so swiftly that he escaped an official reprimand, and withhiS guardian's consent, enrolled for his final year at Union. If he could not attend the college of his choice within his native state, he could at least attend the college of his choice within the United States. Indeed, Union College at that time was the college choice of more undergraduates than Harvard or Yale, again a tribute to the leadership of President Nott. Apparently, Toombs at Union. was a model student in deportment, if not in other areas of academic endeavor. The practice then, .I am told, was to levy fines for breaches of discipline. To Toombs' credit, there is only a three-cent mark against him for missing a single class recitation. ln the words of Union's Professor Hislop, \In 1820 the leading edge of that shadow which was to darken into the Civil War crossed the new campus.\ This was the year of the Missouri Compromise, and there was a focus of attention on sectional differences that had not disturbed Union until this time. Seward was a member of the senior class, and Professor , Hislop says that the budding young politician and statesman witnessed the creation of two sectional college groups, \In- creasingly at odds, and soon organized to demonstrate their differences.\ President Nott, anxious that these differences not degenerate to mere student rabble, permitted the Southern faction to divorce itself from the Philomathean Soci_ety .. It was . Perhaps it was the existence ofjust such an atmosphere that attracted Robert Toombs to Union where, of course, he was a member o£ the Delphian Society. Certainly he ·had much to offer in behalf of the Southern argument, for even at this early age of 18 he is reported to have possessed uncommon abilities of speech and reason. As the son of a well-to-do planter, Toombs accepted slavery and the sovereignty of the states simply as the way of social and political life of his region, although later he would .champion the system with logic missing from the persuasions of many of its supporters. From Union, Toombs went to the University of Virginia to prepare ftlr a career in law, and in this career, begun at the age of 20, he found wealth, prestige, and, characteristically then as today, a stepping stone to public service. Toombs was a good lawyer. He could call upon his great gift of persuasive oratory to im- press judge or jury, or sensing that this. tactic would fail, he could display a talent for vital conciseness in his argument. All of his cases were carefully prepared, and he sought to represent only those whose petition .he deemed just. It was natural that he gravitated to politics. At age 27, he became a member of the state legislature from his native Wilkes County, which normally elected Democrats, not Whigs, as Toombs bad become. As a young legislator, Toombs showed an early concern for sound finance in government, a thread as strong as any that binds his political philosophy to the various stages of his career. Toombs the Congressman was at the outset of his Washington · service a loyal, conservative Whig, dedicated to the prin- ciples and policies of the national party. Toombs won many friends in Congress. He is described as a man of terse phrasing, robust eloquence, and great familiarity with current business; and his conviviality, salty comments, and hearty laughter, . according to Professor Phillips, \warmed his . welcome in a widening circle.\ As 'his experience increased, as he became inore at ease as a member of a national legislative body, Toombs came to realize that he could not identify all his activity with that of the national Whig party, but that the road ahead indicated a broadening and deepening involvement in the affairs of his South, and ,that these· issues would be ·influenced by sharply defined sectional allegiances and interests. In late 1849, Toombs finally emerged as a leader ,of all the Southern States. He seemed the logical successor to the failing Calhoun, whose views he often opposed. Great moments of Toombs~ aggressive leadership stand out to label him in the eyes of many as a man of passionate submissions to bis own emotions, a man ()( quick temper and quick-tongued eloquence, a man of incendiary qualities with the potential to fan Southern embers into real, anti·Union flame. He was, in short, a man to contend with for those who would overlook the views of the s·outh. Yet, in 1849, throughout the decade of the 1850\s and through 1860, Toombs remained, in the final test, · a compromiser, a politician in the best sense of the term. He labored long in behalf of the Compromise of 1850 that brought a measure of quiet to the sectional 'discord. And he returned to Georgia where he and Stephens and Howell Cobb stumped heroically for their state's ratification of the measures of that agreement. From this activity there emerged in Georgia a Con- stitutional Union party, from which Toombs was elected a 'United States senator, and he sought, unsuccessfully., to broaden its. geographic scope and influence. When response failed, he then turned, with reluctance, to the Democrats and was identified with this party henceforth. In the rise of the basically sectional Republican Party to power, Toombs saw ()nly strife and persecution for the South. Even when Lincoln was elected, Toombs still tempered the defiance ,of his public ut- terances with a desire to determine once and for all whether the Republicans in- tended to impose ~n un- compromising decision upon the South. Toombs was one of a Senate Committee of Thirteen which made a. last effort to seek areas of compromise, and this failing, the Georgia senator reluctantly gave up his hopes of keeping GeGrgia witllin the Union and of preserving the Union itself. Even then, Toombs continued bls work Witb the Co:minittee of Thirteen, but it was to no avail. On January 7,1861, be made llis farewell speech in the Senate, and several days later jour- neyed south. Back in Georgia, Toombs helped draft the ordinance of secession for his state, and then went to Montgomery as a member of its delegati()n to help form the basis of a: new, slave- holding, nation. He was responsible for the drafting of many of the clauses of the new Constitution, again exercising his talents for dealing · with financial matters. But for the most part, his service to the South as a re~ion was ended. When Toombs. entered Army service as the commander of three regiments of Georgia infantry, he e:q>ected to achieve a measure of the acclaim in military circles that he so shortly before had commanded in civil life. llut such was not the case. His military career was brief and somewhat stormy. At Antietam, or as we say in the South, Sharpsburg, he did distinguish himself, won Lee's praise, and was wounded. But he never returned to active · coimnand in Lee's Army of . Northern Virginia after his recovery, and Toombs is not honored today because he was a great general. Toombs ne.ver serve(l in the Senate of the Confederacy, although in 1861 he was duly elected to that body. Toombs decided that the margin of his victory in the legislative voting was not large enough to provide him with the mandate he thought he needed, and be declined the seat. Again, in 1863, he was a candidate, but his announced drastic policies-- were his undoing. It was the only time in his long career that he failed to win an office for which he was an avowed can- didate. There followed. a brief J)eriod of service with the Georgia militia during Sher- man's invasion, but in the end, Toombs retired to his horne at Washington, Georgia, to see what the Confederacy's defeat would bring. He was, in turn, a fugitive from the Federal government, an exile abroad, and finally an unmolested but unreconstructed rebel. Toombs renewed his law practice with great success, and within the borders of Georgia he again exercised strong in- flqence. He was a \tribune of the people\ in opposition to the Carpetbag regime of the Radicals and to the growing threat of corporate domination of business and government. His last great act of service to Georgi~ was his work with the convention of 1877 which framed a new state constitution and wisely heeded Toomb's _ counsel to \establish a few fundamental principles and leave these other matters to the legislature and the people, in order to meet the ever varying affairs of human life.'' The last years of Toombs' life were largely unhappy years. Physical infirmities forced him to give up the active political life he loved. A devoted and loving husband for more than 50 years, Toombs lost his wife in 1883, and this undoubtedly hastened his death two years later. Like all men of public - affairs whose capabilities, achievements, shortcomings, and failures must stand the scrutiny of history, Toombs will have those who warmly defend him, others who just as ardently denounce him. What is im- portant is that any evaluation of his life and service be made in context of the period in which he lived. That he stood for slavery, and later for secession, will win him no friends today, for both of these institutions, one social, the other political, have been properly and irretrievably descredited. But in Toombs' day, he was champion for many who were willing to die for their beliefs, and he was also the antagonist of as many others or more, dedicated to the death to oppose that for which he stood. Like Robert E. Lee, Toombs set his course by an over-riding sense of duty. So long as there was the hope of an undivided Union, Toombs' greatest efforts were expended in the preser- vation of the Union and peace. He felt it was his duty to explore the by-roads of compromise, yet at the same time this same sense of duty and responsibility might compel him to prepare his constituents at home for the eventuality he dreaded. When, at last, it became apparent that he could no longer sustain hope for a Union that would allow him no compromise, Toombs became the rebel. His real \lost cause\ was that of peace within the Union,.and it is for this role in our history that we call him worthy today. _,

PageD FITZHUGH LUDLOW D.AY 1 May ?'~ 1981 I FitzHugh Ludlow Day 1981 A Message From President Morris Two years ago today I came to Union College to visit as the new president-elect on Accepted Candidates Day. As it turned. out, on that day there was something elSe going on-the first annual Fit- zHugh Ludlow Day. As well as helping me learn the name of the celebrated author of the \alma mater\ that day also helped me understand something of the temper of Union College. It. was a spring day, mild and clear, the scars of a very nasty winter healed by sunlight and warmth. But the manrelous weather was only a backdrop to a wonderful festive spirit that pervaded the campus that day. There was a kind of joyousness in the air that was in• fectious. The playful spirit joined with the pleasures .of a TJeautiful spring day gave the visitor to the campus a very special welcome which is not to be forgotten. What a marvelous introduction to the college that was. What makes FitzHugh Ludlow Day so very special is its un- pretentious spirit of fun and good humor. The day that honors the name of the author of some elusive verse, and last year honored the designer of bridges must appeal to the esoteric in us all. While it is important that we remember Chester Arthur, it is good that we pay homage to FitzHugh Ludlow and Squire Whipple. The preten- tiousness of so much in institutional life needs the corrective of the gentle knowing smile of FitzHugh Ludlow Day. It bodes well for us that we keep this memorial. Happy FitzHugh Ludlow Day! The Way We Have At Old Union a. Por we think U Is no !In, boys, To tat:e·theJreahmen ln,boys, And ease tbcm ortbeir Un, bo)o\S To drln dull cAre away, cue .. 4.0-· _Is a bore, boys, And slrllle4 ht Grecian Jore, boyll, Wbo always pile• Oil more, boye, To dfin .duU ca.re away. C HO. } li.Now we think it r;o harm in tho 1tasl, bc.:rs, To h~ve AD occaslon•l r~•~~~ boY•· And curter 11 n• beuh bOJ'IIt To drt\e dull a&tfl away. cno-, t;\ GoP'or We think ll l• \ut right, boys, AI>GUI ..,orr Saturday niKbl, boys. '1'0 Itt mOst. 110tlotxll7 UsM, OOya, To drtve dull .ca.rc lt'W':\.)\ CliO. Saturday May9 11:00 a.m. 11:30 12:00 p.m. 12:30 1:00 1:30 2:00 2:30 3:00 3:30 4:00 4:30 5:00 ,;<\ \ Library Library 'Chet Fr-o11tof Between Field Plaza Arthur 5th &9th Arts Building ' Sides of Nott • Coffee and ·Do huts D.G. Olympics Jazz Ensemble Volleyball and Other Activities Jazz Band Beginning Compost of Barbeque Apachee Intramural Relay s.oftba.ll Southern Rock Band Badge FITZ HUGH LUDLOW DAY North Country Rock with BADGE 3:30 in Library Pl11za Front of Carnegie . Soft Ice Cream T-Shirts Pie Throw.i·ng Piftures . - ; Badge has appeared in concert with Linda Ronstadt, Commander ,Cody, NRPS, Pure Pra:rie League, John Hall, and Jon Pousette-Dart. Thanks I WOULD UKE TO THANK THE STUDENT FORUM, · PRESIDENT JOHN MORRIS AND DEAN ROBERT KELLETT FOR THEIR MORAL AND FINANCIAL SUPPORT OF MY DAY. I WILL SPEAK WITH YOU . AGAIN NEXT YEAR. FHL These two songs, one of. wldcb was wriUen by Fitz- Hugh Ludlow, were fotmd In the Union College Song :Book, 1923. The Song :Book was published by the Graduate Conncn of Union College \for the purpose of combining in one book the words and music of songs with which all graduates and undergraduates should be familiar/' Bring Your MEAL CARDS NOTE: Mueh of the Information m these pages appears in volumes of the publication Union Wor- thies from the archives of Union .. College's Schaffer Library. Special recogulflon goes to. the distinguished authors Freel C. Cole, Dexter Perkins and. Douglas W. CampbelL Tlumk you, FilL. . 'rerrace Song llvr, 'I Ju..r· Jl, Wi~11t P. B. LVDLO\v,'GI!i - t 'Yc V...IMMJi......,.,_ an 111,0.. ~ Ia .-r-rr~ V,- .. .,.._1._..._ Utt •• t.. .• •tau. ... ,._.,..if ,.... .\1111 bere•• to t~e r.rpt tha~II~Jelr 1Ul!- 1. ~ ·t:.,t-'1 httt•• nu ~~ ,iaa_l•l• ate•• • to• II•.!' ~~er•, &Hit. h)'1l -. .,m tv ~..,e .... .U lt~tk U•llWa._ 4~u~ AA.t WM• dt 'l'ltK hn k'l lha 11 1 OU 1nra.ot,l~tll Qall.uio ---,...,. dnlla: nn .. lMit ..,, blre kl-.. •a•·•~ u-,_. '~\· CJIOJ.Utl: t... ..,....,I. '*'-'tr-llw/ PM PIIJ' til M\ tf •t .. r, r. ,,.., •••tt t.. i:•u.l..-a.et tM .,,_.,,. ''~' u •r.u. (. AD4: '1\ts· Wt all INII lllolit tn••\'\l• ..S•III .-.111 It lito IAI ••- wUII. llln~r•M u,..,.Uillt ~-«aNte til. A \Uin .. mel!, I ll'fii:,J?M<H ... ..,.,_.~ \' JnllfiJ :rtll ••• ••••· '\' tfri'\f•·•~ \ ........ ., aar w. ... u,rt.. CJ;OI11~·~ nft 1\1 o\ ••1!'1 d Ita••, 1'Ma ••u •Jhca.UI l&onw 1 Jlay PNll• ull _., tJt.a&io•n \'-1111 fttl ... fU'IIJtU'\dtla~ b .... .l • . ,. \ '-''-4 .. v~,..~ Delta Filin, SS016 ChiP DGC Men': ton, 1 t Film, SS016 Film, SS016 In tell Cabare Hillel 8:30 p.l Film Jane,\ P1 The Picnic v 4:30inJ picnic i! majors is only Don't rr Politi Politi1 inform discussi candid; office <J discussl (Thurs( lounge l All int encourc: Phillips discuss solely 1 has notl candid< - E Ever: Biolog~

1.. Ql U1 0 1.. Cil >- -o c: ~ >- .0 0 ..... 0 .J:. a. 1877 Vol. 110, No. 23 Thursday, May 14, 1981 Turne·r Wins/ .Rem~aiin ing Run-offs Today Forum President Elected Weldon Turner, Student Forum President, 1981-82 By JOE MAGUIRE Weldon Turner will serve as president :of the Student Forum for the academic year 1981-1982. Turner was declared the winner of Tuesday's .student elections after receiving 50.1 percent of the votes cast.After the victory, Turner expressed his hope that he would be able to establish \a greater camaraderie and rapport among myself, the Union Movie Wins Award (News Release)-- \A Union of People,\ an 18-niinute film about Union College, has received top honors from the Council for the Advancement and S11pport of Education, Washington, D.C. As part of its annual recognition program, honoring superior work in all areas of institutional ad- vancement, CASE has given \A Union of People\ the grand award in the electronic media- film category. ~ Union received the grand award, the highest award given fo• films, from a field of 30 entries. Harvard and Oregon State were cited for exceptional achievement. \A Union of People\ was produced by Anthony Stewart of Seven:Seas Cinema. New York City, under the direction of Union's Office of College Resources. The film W'l'!S made to reacquaint Union alumni and friends with the College and its Robert Rasmussen, whose office helped coordinate the Union movie programs. It focuses par- ticularly on Union's faculty and students and their close working relationship. Union College President Dr. John S. Morris said of the award, \On behalf of the College community, I am delighted at the recognition given 'A Uilion of People.' I think the film clearly shows that while the campus may hav(ta ' different physical appearance than it did 10 or 20 years ago, the essential character of the College, as embodied in the excellence of its academic programs and in the com- mitment of its faculty, its students, and its alumni, has not changed.\ Vice President for College Resources · Robert B. Rasmussen thanked all members of the College com- munity who helped make \A Union of People,-a su_cc:~s. ';~ think the fact that the •sense of community felt on the Union campus was so evident to the filmmakers is a tribute to all members of our campus family,'' -Rasmussen said. The College will officially receive the award in standard check form at an awards ceremony in Washington, D.C., on July 16. The $1,000 award will then be used as general support in the Annual Fund of Union College. SEA to Sponsor Lecture The Student Environmental Alliance will be sponsoring a lecture and discussion entitled, \Environmental Issues and Government Decision-Making'' to be given by Bernard Melewski. Melewski is currently the Executive Director of the Environmental l?lanning Lobby (EPL) and is the only full time environmental lobbyist group in New York State. The talk will center on several issues which are now being discussed in the New York State Legislature and .. will provide a broad overview of these issues as well as an in depth look at a few of the problems in par- ticular. Among the topics that will be covered are acid rain, tax credits for people who in- stall solar or win·d power devices in their homes, toxic waste sifting and the \Bottle Bill\- The \Bottle Bill\ as the piece of legislation concerning the recycling of bottles and cans has become known, bas been argued over for years. In the past several years, the ''Bottle Bill\ .of other states such as Connecticut and Vermont have proven to be remarkably successful in reducing ·roadside pollution. Because of .. this, in New York, the \Bottle Bill\ has recently gained a great deal .of support from the .general public on Long Island and from such political leaders as Mayor Ed Koch .of New York City. The sifting of a high- technology hazard waste disposal facility in New York has caused much controversy. It has already been decided that such .a facility is essential in New York, but the question is, where'? The politicians throughout the state, private citizens and the Department of Enviromnental Conservation are fighting a bout which town will be so unlucky as to have this facility built within its . borders. Concerning all of these issues, the EPC has been foremost in the government lobbying process in New York. The EPC represents over 100 separate environmental organizations and has more that 1000 mem- bers. Melewski, as the EPC's director and chief lobbyist, is an expert on environmental issues and government formation of public policy. He will be speaking on Wednesday, May 20, at 7:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. members of the Forum, and the student body in general.\ The only other winners of .the elections were the senior representatives. They are Joe Laurin, Kim Nogay and Bob Pavacic. The student r.eferendwn on housing was also passed, .receiving 70~8 percent votes in favor, and 29.2 percent opposed. The raees for all other Forum seats were not decided Tuesday, and there will be runoff elections today. The following races are pending: Vice president of ad- ministration: Gary Chadick, Bill DiConza Vice president of finance: Barton Levine, Peter McCaf- fery Junior Trustee: Karen Schick, David Wollin Junioi Representative: James Hoffman, llene Lan- dress, Steve Larsen, Duncan M:acKen?;ie, John Scotto. Sophomore Representative: Nia Cholakis, Gary Lehr, Caryn Op.epgar.t, .- .Jar,ed, Squires, Winthrop Thurlow. The list below tabulates the spring 1961 election results. The first column lists the votes, the second, the percentage of votes received. PRESIDENT Weldon Turner 396 50.1 Marla Shore 182 23.0 Rich Tannenbaum 152 19.2 Joseph Maneen 60 7.6 V.P. for ADMINISTRATION: Bill DiConza 370 50.0 Gary Chadick 370 50.0 V.P. for FINANCE: Peter McCaffery 312 45.1 Barton Levine 204 29.5 Mike Rogers 176 25.4 JUNIOR TRUSTEE: Karen Schick 175 22.8 David Wollin 156 20.3 Rich Mintz 149 19.4 Peter Schlessel 129 16.8 Jeff Steinberg 53 6.9 Robert Taylor 41 5.3 Mike Landis 66 8.6 SENIOR REP.: KimNogay 126 37.6 Joseph Lauren 113 33.7 BobPavacic 96 28.7 JUNIOR REP: Steve Larsen 141 26.1 ilene Landress 133 24.6 John Scotto 114 21.1 Duncan MacKenzie 106 19.6 James H()ffman 47 8.7 SOPHOMORE REP.: GaryLehr 115 17.3 Winthrop Thurlow 88 13.3 Jared Squires 80 12;0 Caryn Opengart 78 11.7 Nia Cholakis 70 10.5 Matt Nankin 68 10.2 Karen Greaves 44 6.6 BartBrooks 36 5.4 Christopher Morrow 36 5.4 Ed Adler 31 4. 7 JudyBeth Greene 18 2.7 If you are a sophomore who 1. has been forced off campus 2. is an independent living in Greek housing 3. is living in Hickok House AND you receive one of the last 50 nwnbers in the Junion Lot- tery you may subtract 100.5 from that number. HOUSING PROPOSAL: YES- 329 votes, 70.8 percent. N0-134 votes, 29.2 percent. The Student Election Com- mittee Guidelines for deter- mining a winner or run-off candidates are as follows: A. For each of the positions of President of the SGA, Vice- President for Administration of the SGA, Vice-President for Finance of the SGA and Junior Class Representative to the Board of Trustees: 1. A winner shall be declared if one (1) candidate receives a majority of the votes cast. 2. If no candidate receives a majority of the votes cast, then a run-off election will be con- ducted between the two (2) candidates who received the greatest number of votes, unless three (3) candidates each receive 30 percent or more of the vote. 3. If three (3) candidates each receive 30 percent or more of the votes cast, then a run-off election will be conducted between the three (3) can- didates who received the greatest number of votes. In all run-off elections a winner shall be determined by plurality. B. For each of the positions of Sophomore, Junior and Senior Class Representatives {three (3) each): 1. A Winner (or winners) shall be declared if a candidate (or two or three candidates) receive(s) 30 percent or more of the votes cast. a. If no candidate receives 30 percent or more of the votes cast, then a run-off election will be conducted between the five (5) candidates who received the greatest number of votes. b. If only one (1) candidate receives 30 percent or more of the votes cast, then a run-off election for the two (2) remaining positions will be conducted between the next four ( 4) candidates who Continued on page 3 NOTICE Beginning with fall term pre\registration later this month, : ~equired permission cards for designated courses will not be available from departments until the Thursday morning of the week of pre-registration. Copies of the fall term course schedule ·and other materials will be available at the Office of the Registrar ·on the Monday of that week, as in the past. The Student Affairs Council has advised the Registrar that a delay between the · avaHabillty of the course schedule and permission cards will allow students to pre-register for courses In a more orderly maoner. For fall term pre-registration, the coW\se schedule will be available on Monday, May 18th, and departmental permission cards on Thursday, May 21.

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS. May 11,, 1981 The Time is Now By PAUL GROSSMAN The Nott Memorial needs to be fixed .. You hardly needed a newspaper article to let you know that. But a question has arisen: .. does anybody really care? The reason that this question is being asked now.,-.i6· that real steps are being taken to investigate the future of the Nott. Professor Griggs, Chairman of Clvn Engineering People ob:Viously care. Both the Class of '80 and the Class of '81 chose as their Senior Class Gift a financial contribution to be put towards the recon- ditioning of the Nott Memorial. It is a building that serves as a source of pride for many of us who proudly state the uniqueness of its sixteen sides, WRUC to Upgrade News By GINA PERSICO On October 14, 1920; WRUC broadcast for 27 minutes in what is believed to be the first radio broadcast in the country. Now, over 60 years later, the Union College Radie station can be heard seven days a week, 24 hours a day. Run solely by Union College students, WRUC has under gone numerous changes since its first airing. Any listener within a ten mile radius of the station's Carnegie Hall location can turn to FM 90.9 for 44 different music shows, two daily news broad- casts, as well as a number of public service announcements. The Public Service an- nouncements include the Ride Board, to facilitate travel, the Job Line, as well as the Com· munity Calendar which infonns the listening audience of events occuring in the local com- munities. The Record Hop is also a way WRUC helps the College Community by offering all night disc jockeyed music at a low cost. For sports fans, in additi()n to the nightly national sports wrap-up at midnight, there is live coverage of all home football games as well as select hockey and basketball games. Extensive coverage is also given to all away basketball, football, and hockey games. Live coverage of Union Soccer and Lacrosse are in the future J>lans of the WRUC sports :department. According to Programs Director Al Goldberg, one of WRUC'smain goals is to create a . \better sounding\ radio statien. DJs are being more carefully selected and their time slots are being increased so that constant switching of music styles is eliminated. According to Goldberg, WRUC, which has a potential listening audience of 35,0()0 is trying to involve as many people on the campus and in the local conununity as it can. \And this means not just with music~\ Gold.berg adds. The telephone system has enabled WRUC to air live -in· terviews over the phone with musicians performing in the area. Past radio interviews using this system have included James Taylor, Billy Joel, Blotto, and the Henry Paul Band. The staff is expecting to increase such type of interviews next year. The telephone interview technique is also used by the News Department to make listeners aware of community events they may be unable t<J attend. This was evidenced this past March during National Library Week when . nightly speeches at the Schenectady Public Library were given live coverage over the phone. other regular special news programs aired over WRUC for the first time this year are the once a term 3600 seconds show, which entails four extensively researched topics related to the campus as well as the outside community, and the one on one debate show Point•Counter point which airs every Tuesday night at 10: 00 and involves controversial topics also related either to the campus or com- munity. Major national events are also covered. This past winter, WRUC news aired \Election Night\ with an array of editorials, background reports, and up-to-the-minute election results. In order to involve the community dwellers more directly with the station, WRUC gives tours of the studio and is presently allowing a few Schenectady Boy Scouts to have a DJ show on Saturdays in order to earn their merit badges. In the future, Goldberg and others plan on visiting local elemen- tary schools and high schools to discuss radio and the WRUC radio station. Presently a 10 watt station, WRUC has a petition before the Federal Communications Commission to increase the Continued on page 3 Phonathon Sets Record In four nights last month, 127 local Union College alumni participating in this year's Schenectady phonathon raised a record $49,834.50 for the College's Annual Fund - a nearly 50 percent increase over last year's Schenectady phonathon total and more than $8,000 better than the best previous year. Records were also set in the Boston and New York City phonathons this year, College Annual Fund Director Paul Rieschick said. The record for the best single night of a phonathon was broken when $18,006.50 was raised in one evening in New York this year. The 1981 Schenectady phonatbon total is up $16,030.50 or 47.4 percent over last year. The best previous phonathon total was set in Schenectady seven years ago, when $41,913 was raised in eight nights of calling. \I am tremendously pleased with the support we received from our local alumni, and I want to say a special thanks to Kevin Crawford for his many hours of hard work as Schenectady phonathon chairman,'' Rieschick said. Crawford, a 1975 Union graduate, is an attorney with the NewYorkState Department of State.. He resides in Loudonville. Overall, Union's 69th Annual Fund is currently running about $70,000 ahead of the total at this time last year. The 1981 goal is $1.4 million, and with May and June traditionally being the two best months for Annual Fund giving, Rieschick said he is confident that goal will be met. THE STUDENT ENVIRONMENTAL ALLIANCE Presents 11 Environmental Issues and Government Decision-Making'' Wednesday, May 20 at at 1:30 in Strauss Lounge a lecture by Bernard Melewski, Executive Director of the Environmental Planning Lobby Topics to be discussed are: . Acid Rain . Toxic Waste Siting . Solar Power Tax Credits . The \Bottle Bill\ the interesting use of the building materials, and the varied statements of its par· ticular characteristics. The Nott contains four floors. The basement now houses the Campus Store. On the first floor is the tMatre; the second floor is used for theatre storage and work space.. The uppermost gallery of the Nott is unused as of now. Certain corrections have to be made in its structure before it can be fully operational. Prof. Griggs, Chairman of the Department of Civil Engineering, has been actively interested ifl the future of the Nett. In the letter .printed below, he asks for suggestions from members of the· Union com- mllfi.ity regarding the future of the Nott, l'b~ ulthn:~te solution will not be simple. There are manx factors, primarily economic, that are involved in renovating the Nott. What must be established is the Q.emon· t$tf$\,~On of enough interest . to warrahhigniftcant action of the part of the Priorities and Planning Committee and the Boa·rd of Trustees. We all must show active interest in the Nott Memorial's future so that we speakout loudly to the people in the Union community who hold the ultimate solution to the problem. Below is Prof. Griggs' lettt-r to the Union community. He1·e is an excellent opportunity t,? have a suggestion carefully evaluated and possibly followed through. The Nott Memorial deserves at least that much attention. As a member of the Union family, I am sure you are well aware of the fact that the Nott Memorial is in need of extensive repairs. Over . the years the Administration and Board of Trustees have been reluctant to put a great deal of money into the structure, as they did. not have a clear idea of a future use of the building. Many studies of the Nott and its role have been made; the most extensive being the 1973 Historic Structure Report conducted by John Mesick. I would encourage anyone who is interested in the architectural heritage of Union to read this excellent report. The report recommended that the building be utilized as a combined Meeting Hall, Exhibition Gallery, Admissions and FinanCial Aide Office. With the latter functions now in the renovated Becker Hall, only two of the original ~unctions remain. This letter and questionnaire is to ask that you put yolll' mind to work en a recommendation for the future use of the Nott. We will CClmpile all of your recommendations and report back to you in a future issue of the Concordiensis. As you make your recommendation, bear in mind that an estimate of required modifications to the building in 1973 came to a total of $1,500,00(). In today's dollars that is equivalent to ap- proximately $3,000,000. We hope to have your suggestions in time to compile the results by May 27, 1981, the date of the symposium on Cast Iron which is scheduled t() be held in the Nott. The keynote speaker of this symposium will be John Mesick whose talk is entitled, \The Nott Memorial; Past, Present, and Fut!.!fe.'' Your show of concern for the Nott will hasten the day when it can resume its rightful place as living, functional, focal point of the Ramee Campus. Please return your recommendations to the Civil Engineering Department. UNION COLLEGE'S OWN Rich and Rich - Single Shot Amaretto Drinks j '· . 90c Iced Teas $2.00 Featuring: Rich Hope and Rich Decker AMATEUR NIGHT Friday, May 22 · Starting at 10:00 pm We need acts for entertainment at the Dutch Hollow Pub Prizes Awarded- Specials Sign up for auditions by May 20 Call Sharon at 370-6051 .-~--~--~------~-------~~---r PIZZA AND BEER NIGHT AT THE DUTCH tiOLLOW PUB F.RIDAY, MAY 15 I I I I I 1-8 cut pizza-and a pitcher : ofbeers-n p.m . I . I ------------------------~---- - ( T rna Sov Ga1 f<Jr har an< pro ( pol tbe or, fiel \V(J 'lbl Ea nu: ter thE . ..'l sit' te1 del Co w~ wi St< Y« co di m in V< ai C< w ir li s1

OONOOBD:LENSIS, May 14, 1981 Page 3 Commentary: AWACS for Arabs By DANIEL ROSENFIELD The E 3-A Airborn Warning and Control System (AWAC) is one of the most sophisticated electronic systems that the U.S. has flying. This plane can track all aircraft and navel vessels, in any weather, within a radius of 250 miles. Naturally, being a sharp, perceptive, intelligent and intellectually stimulated reader,. you are saying right about now, Sooooo What? (yes, those immortal words!) Gati Speaks on Poland The so what is that currently, the President of the United States is trying to conclude the sale of five AWACS to Saudia Arabia. This presents a problem: do we, the United States sell our most sophisticated armament 'Tbe ongoing crisis in Poland may signal a weakening of the Soviet bloc, Charles Gati says. Gati sees \no winning options\ for the Soviet Union in its handling of problems in Poland and feels the conflict may be a protrac._ted one. Gati, a specialist in the politics of Eastern Europe and tbe Soviet Union, is the author or editor of severaLbooks in his field, including Blue Collar Workers in Eastern Europe and The International Politics of Eastern Europe. He has given· numerous lectures and in- terviews in recent months on the current situation in Poland. . .The current revolutionary situation in Poland is charac- terized by ever increasing demands for change .... demands made by the workers, the peasants, the students, · and most .significantly, Gati says, by members of the Communist Party. While Moscow is not opposed to every. one oi the changes, lie says, \what the Soviets find least acceptable is the fact that there is too much spontaneity. No one is really in charge in Poland~\ The Soviets have stepped back, for the time being, to give the Polish leadership \tilne to cool tempers and bring the situation under control.\ But to Moscow, Gati says, ''a 'Polish solution' means that the leading role of the Polish Communist Party will have to be reestablished and the problem with that is that most Poles now are looking for a more open and w.R.u.c·. • • • ContinUed from page 2 wattage to 100. This upgrading will stretch the radius of the station's listening audience. Yet, the managers of WRUC contend that regardless of the distance the station is aired, the ma:in goal is to capture the interest and increase the in- volvement of college students and members of the local community. The staff feels the college radio station has come a long way since 1920 and that with increased programs and listener participation, the station can go even farther. WRUC is staffed by: Jeff Mitchell-General Manager, Alan Goldberg-Program Manager, Gene· Sawa- Business Manager, Bill Singer-Technical . Manager, Julie Wildman-Promotional Manager, Larry Lieberman- Music.Director, Andy Nevas- Music Director, Jane Cavalier-Special Program- ming Director, Gina Persico- News Director;. Marc Pifco- Sports Director, Nancy Raisman-Executive Secretary and Ted Behar-Production Director. JOIN US 'IBIS· atUNIOR At Union C~llege, we've been helping people learn for more than 1 85 years. · This summer you can participate In this tradition. Select graduate and undergraduate courses In a )larie~y of subjects from Art and Politics to Math and Computer Sc1ence. Whether to further your education, or simply to enrich your life, call us today at 370•6288 for complete information. Day and evening sessions of suA'lmer school at Union College begin Wednesday, June 17. You can learn something new every day- this summer at Union c·ollege. Term I tO weeks June 17 - August 25 Term II Sweeks June 17 - J~ly 21 Term Ill &weeks June 17 - July _28 Term IV 5weeka July 22 - August 25 Term V 6weeka. July 29 - Final dates vary Register in person or by mail. Academic advisors are available from e-ap.m. on Wednesday, June 10, or by appointment. A TRADITION OF EXCRI.I.ENC;E 185~ .a more pluralistic society.'' Addressing the question of U.S. involvement, Gati notes, \While we ultimately . won't make the diff~rence in the outcome of the crisis, we do .play a role and we've played it very constructively.\ By drawing world attention to Soviet · preparations for a possible military intervention in Poland, Gati feels the U.S. has played a small role in con- taining the Soviets thus far. \It's not in the Soviets' past pattern to do things when world attention is focused on them,\ · he says, Gati feels the Soviet Empire is an \anachronism\ and adds, \I think we're goirig .to see its end in our lifetime.\ President Elected Continued from page 1 received the gre~test number of votes, following the one (1) candidate who received 30 percent or more of the votes cast. c. If only ~wo (2) candidates receive 30 percent or more of the votes case, then a run-off election for the one ( 1) remaining position will be conducted between the next two (2) candidates who received the greatest number of votes following the two (2) candidates who received- 30 percent or more of the votes cast. 2. In all run-off elections a winner (or winners) ·shall be determined by plurality. C. For the two (2) positions of Freshman Class Represen- tative: 1. A winner ~or two (2) win- ners) 'Shall be declared if a candidate (or two (2) can- didates) receive(s) 40 percent or more of the votes cast. a. If no candidate receives 40 percent or more of the votes cast, then a run-off election will be conducted between \the three TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 systems to other countries, especially third world nations, or, do we keep them for our- selves on the theory that if' it is sold to others it will eventually fall into the hands of the enemy? The argwnents in ·favor of selling the Saudis the planes are twofold; First, some argue that by selling these planes; we will make the Saudis like us better, they will be our friends because we were nice to them. This is a nice theory; I wonder if those who put forth this argument somehow, magically, skipped childhood where most of us learned that buying friends does not insure enduring friendships. Buying the Saudis will work only so long as they want what we have - for the price that we demand, and so long as we are the high bidder. Most of you sharp, perceptive, intelligent and intellectually stimulated readers can probably guess who else could get into the game. This is not .a cost ·effective policy. The second argument is that these planes would help protect the poorly defended oil fields because the warning time would be increased from the current four minutes, with ground radar, to 15 minutes with AWAC. This argument asswnes that the Saudis have sufficient aircraft to fight back with. Just to make this even more com- plex, the fighters that the Saudis have and hope to get more of, the Pentagon claims are not equipped with the (3) candidates who received the greatest number of votes cast. b. If only one (1) candidate receives 40 percent or more of the votes cast, then a run-off election for the one (1) remaining position will be conducted between the next two (2) candidates who received the greatest number of votes following the one (1) candidate who received 40 percent or more of the votes cast. 2. In all rWl-off elections a winner (or winners) shall be determined by plurality. Albany Center .163 Delaware Ave. Delmar, N.Y. 12054 439-8146 For Information About Other Centers ln More Than 85 Major US Cities & Outside NV State CALL TOLL FREE: 800·223·1782 necessary electronics to be tied- in with the AWACS. They also claim that this equipment will never be available to the Saudis. If that is so, then what good are the AWACS? This :brings us to the arguments of those opposed to the sale of the AWACS to Sandia Arabia (note how subtly this has been done). If the Saudis have AWACS, and if they have the planes that can potentially operate with them, (in this case the F-15) then the next step is to get the electronics to tie the two together. Originally, the F·15 was not supP.QSed to be sold to' the Saudis for security reasons, now it has been, and the AWACS · are in corttension for sale. Those who are against the sale of the planes feel that the necessary tie-in electronics will be next, because eventually, in order to keep the Saudis on our side, we will have to allow them to buy the tie-in electronics. The faction against also argues that like Iran, Saudia Arabia m~y not be the most stable country in which to en- trust secret military equip- ment. There is no telling who will be in control of the country five years from now or even one year £rom now. There certainly is no guarantee that the next government would be interested in helping to protect our military secrets. Iran serves as a perfect example of this. Further, this sale will upset the balance of power, thus in- creasing the arms race in the Middle East that everyone is trying to avoid. As with any complex equipment, the AWACS will require tremendous amounts of support equipment. This means that it will not be a matter of just a few planes, the list will be never ending. Remember, it was just a few F-15's ... Secrets' are best kept by telling only those who have to know them. If they are so valuable, then do not tell those who do not need to know, especially when they are not trustworthy. Friendship should be earned, not bought. By buying it we only delude ourselves into thinking that we have an ally that we can rely on ·· one that may not be there when we need them. WRUC Presents: \An Evening's . Entertainment\ featuring live concerts and interviews with today's top artists KAREN LAWRENCE Sat., May. 16, 10:00 former NY Doll SYLVAIN SYLVAIN Tues., May 19,11:00 DAVID BOWIE Sat., May 23,10:00 Don't miss WRUC's presentation of JOHN LENNON'S LAST CONCERT PERFORMANCE Sun., May 17, 5:00 WRUC90.9 FM Union College America's Oldest Radio Station

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, May 14, 1981 feature Croquet Hits By STEVE MONOSSON Delta Chi Croquet for Cancer Day 1981 was a . smashing · success. The Fraternity wishes to thank everyone who par- ticipated, don a·ted prizes, watched, and-or did anything else to make the day what it was. The overall enthusiasm for . the event heralds the very strong possibility that the Tourney will be an annual one. Three hundred fifty dollars was raised for the cause; and Delta Chi is proud to have assisted in such a worthy cause. rolled. past the Parents Pride in the first round, but was knocked out by a drunken but strong Beta squad. Such was the manner of ,play throughout the afternoon, as one deserving, highly skilled team after another bowed out gracefully in the course of the stiffly ·com- petitive play . So, to make a long story short, the final match was battled out by Dan Booth's Malleteers and the gentlemen of Phi Delta Theta. Phi Delta Theta lost. Dan Booth and his worthy crew were presented with the victor's trophy and a croquet set for their own personal use. Dan Booth leads his team to victory Spring Shape Up: The day began with 30 odd teams squaring off against one another in a ladder type com- petition. The best dressed and highly t-outed Hot Sub Dwarfs were quickly and unexpectedly knocked off by a smooth shooting First Floor Richmond- -Delta Chi Extras team. The well-hyped and disappointingly underdressed Murphy's Law At day's finish, most everyone went horne satisfied with what they'd done, and anxious for next spring's op- portunity to stroke the day away. Again, Delta Chi woufd like to thank everyone and everything involved; and ... er ... well, tl}at's enough. Counting Calories~ Boat Club Triu1nphs place victory. The same thing happened to Doug Macfadden and Earl Stokes halfway through the men'S final. Overall Union took 4th place behind Univ. of Akron, which took both 1st and 2nd places, and NJIT. This week's column is going to list the calorie counts of some popular foods: Apples, raw, 1 medium, 70 cal. Bacon, 2 short slices, 90 cal. Beans, green, % cup, 15 cal. Beer, 8 ounces, 100 cal. Bologna,- 1 slice, 82 cal. Bread, white, 1 slice, 70 cal. Brownies, with nuts, 2\x2\x% \ 146 cal. Catsup, 1 tablespoon, 15 cal. Cheeses American, 1 ounce, 105 cal. Cheddar, 1 ounce, 115 cal. Cream, 1 tablespoon, 60 cal. At Psi Chi: Swiss, 1 ounce, 105 cal. Chicken, 1 ounce, 47 cal. Chocolate milk, 1 ounce, 145 cal. Chocolate chip cookie, 1114\ 50 cal. Doughnuts, 1 ounce, 125 cal. Frankfurter, 1 ounce, 85 cal. Gin, 1 Jigger, 110 cal. Grapes, % c,up, 48 cal. Honeydew melon, lJ4 small, 33 cal. Ice cream, 1 h cup, 165 cal. Ice milk, 1 .cup, 200 cal. Lemonade, 1 cup, 110 cal. Nectarine, 1 medium, 32 cal. Nuts Almonds, 14 nuts, 94 cal. Cashews, % cup,· 393 ca1. Peanuts, 1h cup, 420 cal. Orange juice, % cup, 60 cal. Pickle, dill, 1 large, 15 cal. Pizza, cheese, lfs of 14'' pie, 185 cal. Potato chips, 10 pieces, 115 cal. Potato, French Fried, 10 pieces, 155 cal. Spaghetti, plain, %<»cup, 78 cal. Strawberries, raw, 1 cup, 55 cal. Vodka, 1 Jigger, 110 cal. Watermelon, % cup, 26 cal. Vl 1... ID ..1:: u ;::.., .c 0 - 0 ..s::: a. The Stone Boat. Club entered one of the largest races of the year at New Jersey Institute of Technology, May 2, after a triumphant previous weekend at Penn State. Echo Lake was the meeting ground for the 17 schools entered in the race sponsored by NJIT. Union qualified for .. the finals in the men's, faculty and mixed divisions. In the women's division Robin J. Kilmartin and Jane A. Webb were off to a great start when they were pulled off course by a strong current from a waterfall. Union brought home a second. place trophy by the great efforts of Prof. Thomas Jewell and Sharnir Pasha. Ron LaBerge and Jane Webb were in first place when the boat was overcome by waves from nearby boats and sunk three feet from the finish line. But Jane and Ron did not give up, they pulled the submerged boat across the finish line for a third At Penn State the club took 1st place overall with 4 firsts and a second. Gary Morris and Ron LaBerge set a meet record in their first place victory in tlle men's final. The other first place victories were brought in by Jaen Webb and Tom Webb in the mixed division, Shamir Pasha and Mark Ingals, faculty division, and finally by Jim Houston and John Hartnett in the mile race. The second place was won in a close race for first by Kathy Tessier and Cathy Good. Even with the mishap- penings at NJIT the club still proved that it can build one of the better boats. New Students Named Anyone interested in canoeing or just having fun talk to Prof. Jewell6262 or Jane Webb 6819. Union~s' chapter of Psi Chi was established in 1978. Students who have completed three upper-level psychology courses are eligible, and they Kutchukian, Williams to Perform Soprano Sylv)a Kutchukian and pianist Isabelle WUliams will present a recital at Union College Frida_y, ~Y 15, in the Arts BuilMng, room 202 .. Sponsoreg by the College Arts Department, their performance will begin at 8 p.m., and the public is welcome to attend. The program will include works by Gluck, Poulenc, Faure, Brahms, Strauss, and Menotti, as well as Armenian songs. Kutchukian, who is currently on the voice faculty at Skidmore College, was born and raised in Alexandria, Egypt, and began her musical studies in Swit- zerland. She is a graduate of the Eastman School of Music, and she has appeared with leadi\lg regional opera companies and symphony orchestras around the country. Kutchukian SP.eaks and performs in six languages. She has appeared on National Television and has shared the concert stage with such in- ternationally renowned artists as Rudolf Serkin, William Warfield, Lukas Foss, and Howard Hanson. Williams, chairman of the Music Department at Skid- more, received a master of music degree in piano and a doctorate in musicology from the University of Michigan. She has presented piano concerts in the Capital District area, as well as in Michigan and Florida, wnere she appeared as soloist with the Tampa Symphony Orchestra. Concordiensis Needs Staff If You are Interested Contact Paul at 64 77 or Rachel at 6552 are selected on the basis of outstanding achievements fu psychology and overall academic excellence. Seniors named to Psi Chi this year are: Terry L. Dobbs, Beth Allison Dorognsker and Lawrence L. Fallek. Juniors include Stewart E. Bober, 464 State St. we deliver ~ f!f!4 Shar~m Camins, Neil B. Eisenstadt, Marcus J. Gold- man, Nashwa Horesh, Sally F jacobs, LISA Y. Livshin, Seth F. Oringher, Maryann J. Popiel, Lyssa H. Schwartz, Phyllis Sternberg and Steven Jay Tuck- man. Schenectady 374-1888 1115 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY PHONE 377-2642 or382-8684 Homestyle Italian Cooking Salad Bar Included with All Pasta & All Dinners Reason11ble prices Plus a 10% Discount to Union College Students with IDs ·Banquet Facilities I

<II \'C ,_ ,o ..c u !l: <II ,_ ttl ..c:: u >- .0 0 - 0 ..c a. OONCOBDIENSIS, May .14 .. .1981 Page 5 s & Culture Poet Jordan Stnith to Join F acuity The English department is pleased to annou.11ce that next year poet Jordan Smith will join the Union College faculty. Professor Smith, who is earning an M.F.A. from the University of Iowa Writers' Workshop and has earned an M.A. at the Johns Hopkins University in 1978, has published poems in The Ardis Anthology of , American Poetry, Antaeus, The Kenyon Review, Georgia Review, The Ohio Review, Shenandoah, and other journals. The feature poet in, the forthcoming issue of the Agni Review, Professor Smith has been hailed as ''exceptional\ by poet Marvin Ball and comes to Union College to share his energy and insight . Professor Smith's poetry answers the question put forth in \Notes Toward A Translation,\ where he asks, \What remains of a dying~tongue?\ He answers this question in the discovery of the richness of an everyday world: w I p N H N 0 I T N 0 G The winning entry in the recent Parents Weekend photography competition was submitted by Nancy Raisman. First prize was a thirty dollar gift certificate, generously donated by Berns Camera Stores and two free terms' use of the photography club's ' . darkroom. Ken Adler and Amanda Phillips received hDnorable mention for their prints. Both will receive a ten dollar gift certificate, courtesy of Berns, and free use of the club darkroom for a term. I, . . . The sun through her win.dow Showed her more respect than I With these easy inventions. It caught her hands, her bracelets, Hairpins, her low work table, Patched dress, her fine attention As she smoothed the yellowed sheets. Who, without shame, could ask more?\ (Hotel Major) A poet of clarity and compassion, Professor Smith often brings the past to us in the musical forms wher_e These gestures of grace carry us, and are gone, Our movement so reflected in the eddying Distances of the marsh, we seem always To have just fallen still. As a melody_ Repeated on itself becomes the ground Of silences, . . . (For Dulcimer & P9ubled Voice) .. Professor Smith will be teaching three creative writing workshops next year, and they will range from beginning to ad- vanced study. In addition, he will be teaching such literature courses as \Writers on Writing\ where he examines the relation of the artist to the artifact. _ Professor Smith's own work addresses questions of this nature when he gives voice to our history and our desire to find a place through language. In Joseph Brant: Niagara, 1804,\ Brant declares . . . This was home: not the heart· of the world, but the world itself, emptied of desire, waiting for me to create it anew, to braid its stiff fibers and feel my own strand passed around the spindle. So our homes find us, my friend, when our spirits dwindle, when our shadows no longer quicken the earth's reticence. If you are that tired, you have earned your passage. There will be no. need to seek it. Congratulations! Coffeehouse Presents Mark Rust The English Department is pleased to announce the win- ners of the 1980-81 writing competitions. The Academy of Ameri~an Poets prize was awarded to Mary M. Richardson, with honorable mention going to David Tarbay. In the Allen Essay Prize contest for seniors producing the best non-fiction essays, first prize went to Catherine D' Amato, and second prize to Lori Barth. The winner of the Yudis prize for the best piece of prose fic- tion in any class is Michael M. Scott. There are no winners <Jf the Van Orden Prize for fresllman. All entries may be picked up from the English Department Secretary, Hllinanities 212. The English Department thanks all students who submitted their work. 7th ANNUAL POETRY CONTEST A $1000 grand prize will be awarded in the Seventh Annual Poetry Competition sponsored by World of Poetry, a quarterly newsletter for poets. · Poems of all styles and on any subject are eligible to ~ompete for the grand prize or for 99 other cash or merchandise awards, totaling over $10,000.00. Says· Contest Chainn!'J1. Joseph Mellon, ''We are encouraging poetic talent of every kind, and expect our contest to produce ex- citing discoveries.\ Rules and official entry forms are available from the World of . Poetry, 2431 Stockton, Dept. B, Sacramento, California 951117. The key part of Mark~s performance is energy. In the course of an evening he gives out an incredible amount! llis fluency on many instruments ·(guitar, banjo, piano, fiddle, dulcimer), along with his refreshingly clear vocal abiliiy create a varied and exciting evening of music. He draws on many comm()n life experiences and reflects them in songs and stories ranging from the wide-eyed fascination of a child to tlie cynicism of an old bum. He'll sing of social outrage, and later, weave a beautifully lyricallo\Ve ballad. He believes in the music and possesses the magic to let you believe too. His musical background bas covered traditional folk, rock and roll, commercial jazz, songwriting, classical, and .all are drawn in over a night. And after it's all over, you're left with that rare and pleasant feeling that you have received something very Special 8lld lovingly given! Mark's early performing was with his family. With his parents, brother and sister, and occasionally his grandmother who is a fine yodeler., he per- formed at concerts, festivals, coffeehouses, and benefits. They sang Swiss yodeling songs, American and English folk songs, some of Mark's songs, and other contemporary songs the family enjoyed. He later joined with Columbia recording artists Eric and Martha Nagler plus North American Fiddle .Champion Graham Townsend to form the group \Larkspur\. Try to \catch him if you can\! Come to this Friday's Cof- feehouse (May 15th) in The Cabaret Room and experience Mark Rust's show for yourself. Doors open at 8:30 p.m. and tickets are available then tor only one dollar. Mark Rust

J Page 6 OONOORDIENSTS} May 1~~ :1.9g1, Editorials Letters Grappling With Issues at Hand Students at a school with trimesters might find it difficult to find time to devote to othe,r activities, other than studying and extracurrlculars that directly affect the stud~nt population. As a result, the students may become apolitical. This is a disease that afflicts the individuals who either don't have the time or the motivation to care about and act on issues of a national or international nature. Contrary to popular belief, this is not the case at Union College this spring term. Surprisingly. amid all the cries of apathy and student disinterest, many on campus are getting involved in issues not specifically Union College related. For example, the area outside of the Student Activities office, at the top of the steps of Carnegie, has been occupied by students trying to gain campus support for various causes. These students have been sited more in the past few weeks than during either winter or fall term. They are trying to sway the masses and encourage interest ln their chosen con- cerns. Union College community members have seen students concerned with environmental issues, the plight of the Polish workers, El Salvador and education budget cuts. We applaud these students, and their motivation. In line with this, Concordiensis would like to take note of an issue that has achieved popularity on campus, in an attempt to entice other students to join the ranks. By this action we hope to increase the political and social awareness on the campus as a whole. An issue that has peaked the interest of students at colleges all across the nation has been the Nestle boycott. We picked this particular subject since the boycott has a large following at Albany State, and is just starting to organize here. This boycott is directed at a few organizations and corporations that neglect health factors in order to make a profit. Specifically, Nestle (along with other companies), is promoting the use of infant formulas in third world nations. They are telling the mothers that bottle feeding is better for the health of their babies, which in fact it may be. The promotion of these formula products causes two major problems. First, the women are spending a large portion of their income on the formulas. This is money they cannot afford to spend on such ''luxuries.'' Second, the water used to make the formula is impure in a good .number of the villages, making transmission of disease to the infant easier than it already is in these nations. This disease factor is multiplied by inadequate sterilization of the bottles and equipment. The corporations have to be approached in a manner that will make them take responsibility for their actions,and products. They must be concerned about the repetition and elimination of this problem in the future. Perhaps more important than this specific boycott is the underlying issue of corporations putting profit before people and their health. This extends to mahy of the issues of today including the drug market, food products and all sorts of consumer products that could potentially endanger the health of the user. This affects all of us in a very direct manner. The Nestle boycott is a small reminder, and just one approach to the problem. In :this issue is an article that appeared in the Albany State newspaper, The Albany Student Press (ASP) on April 24, 1981. It is important to read ar- ticles of this nature to try to get a perspective on certain issues, and to keep in touch with the world outside of Union College. Even if you do not believe in a cause, at least be informed. It is a critical part of our education: (See page 3.) . Read the article, discuss the issue with your friends and decide. It takes very little time. After all, if we don't care enough to acton the issues at hand, no one will. Take responsibility--it is our right and duty. \Political Society Exists for the Sake of Noble Action and Not of Mere Companionship.\ - Aristotle or Dutchwive$ liS. If else th~y should each, and . f>f broken men be properly publicized.· ·· and·· seroe~· ··fiver··· ebri&ttnas -vacation ~> tnp · was· replaced; Sint!evely; Due . to ·: · op~ · stuftitig . the Claire Marie Butehlll'OO: · ·. ·.· p09kets ·. · · f<Weign~materials, D~ar Sir: I a:ro sure- that most pee»ple 'SkeUar Brenks will agree that I am mnNa than tolerant (tf the women ·11~ types (ll'l campus on just about. ev.-Er,r · · Add U\p · issue. But when they spell the fine tradition of Union Ccllega;- then I believe it is time to take a stand. The point I object; to is 'To the campus community: the constant reference in ytlur publication tc -Union sports This letter may not apply to teams as Dutchwomen, wllen all of you, but just to those who everyone knows that the scho@'l ~re · immature, · and frustrated , nickname is the Dutcbm;(ln. :aoout·their 'own inability to be The term \Dutchmrm\ is . 'Coordinated. Yest rm talking defined in Webster's Thif\'(j New about the individuals who insist International Dicti()J11U.'Y as upon abusing the· Rathskellar either A} A rru:mbeor d the games. I've. seen students kick, Gennanic peoples of Gi!Mna-ny, pound and slwve the games Austria. Switz-erland, Qr tiile low ·around. The usual result is the countries, or B) A native or . calling nf a servic-e man, to fix inhabitant of the Netherlands<' the machines; Wetve b-een lucky Notlee that the term .is !iefmed to hav~ a good repairman who without reference to ~nder. can be anbe 1 SkeUar within an Just as wpmen are considered 'hour alter the call. 'His records part of mankind. so can tlley be show that this year bas been the considered Dutehmen and their bigh~st number. of service c:alts, sports teams should be 11amed most of which are connected as suen. Needless to s~y. the with abuse of the machines. term u-nutchwoman' ~ is n()t The games are not owned by defin-ed by Webster, althffllgh the Rat, but are contracted in the term .. Dutcbwife\ is. by a private concern. The Perhaps the women's teams on replacement cost of the· pinballs campus could be renanted the is $2)700 . to $3,500. The Dute'hwives if they object m. the repi;acement costs of the video present name. . machine is $3,:000 to $3,900. The I realize, of course, ttt~t tbis repair of .the jukebox, due ·to l~ter w:_ill put me in bad strut- damage · by a stndent is ding WJth the Women's Net.. estilnated at $126. Parts do not work, the Ladies Auxiliaf.\Y and Cl)nte cheaply, so do not abuse other women's on Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor . Associate Editor Business Editor he has just been able to keep up with the· .. eplaooment costs, · from the illoney taken in. This will prnbably be the first maChine to·· go if peo-ple k~ep stuffing. thte,poekets~,. because\! know be ean't run his busin&ss with game&- that dgp,tt make money. If he takes games out. God only knows what they will be replaced with. So the dext time you are frustrate& with your own inabilitY';\'&nd. ltieklng, or hitting a game, kick a brick instead. We have plenty of\tbem and they don't cost that. much. Sme~ely, The Head Rat Opposing the '. To the Students of Union College: The women of the United States are dangeroUSly close to losing our abortion rights if nur voices are not heard. Pro-lifers are well and making to reoeal Paul Grossman, Rachel I. Mandel Julie Isgro Donna Greeley Jeff Scardino News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editor Joe Maguire Naomi Blank Dan Booth, Judi Chervenak Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Maria Manfredonia, Charis Richards Bill Curtin, Jay McDennott . Cory Lewkowicz Mindy Broser Steve Lerner Ellen Berger Lisa Snyder Steve Auerbach, Dan Rosenfield, Cindy Tenner Charis Richards, Kent Avery, A.J. D'Angelo, Cindy Tenner Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Women's Sports Editor Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Subscriptions Cartoonist Staff Photo Staff CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., ~1 Division Street; Sidney, New York 13838, .(607) 563-7151. Entered m the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription· rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Concordieosis subscribes to the College Press Serv'ic~ (CPS). ~ ! j I '1 ' Cont: . .: .. , . ..,,'*\ ,,rewt~ ding Devi prc-4 arth aath1 nnW: wJ''ll, Tb worn cam gym use ser:v Plar, the 1 care will Tt tQVI aoot tQ y ab01 USel ser'li you abol ret» to 11 doo the! let: be1 T D Off Mal N.V u Pat Al£1 Bu: 205' s Fa1 903 All Co 1 Ec com last unal autl writ it il piec prm app1 mig an tun: rep• the run- tim I witl aut! it a \\ stuc the: stu SoiJ nev aff Ag: Oft I sp~: cri1 eff det Un stu No dOJ go~ it c pr1 pre ] COl va Stl th;

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, May 14, 1981 Editorials Letters Grappling With Issues at Hand Students at a school with trimesters might find it difficult to find time to devote to other activities, other than studying and extracurriculars that directly affect the student population. As a result, the students may become apolitical. This is a disease that afflicts the individuals who either don't have the time or the motivation to care about and act on issues of a national or international nature. Contrary to popular belief, this is not the case at Union College this spring term. Surprisingly. amid all the cries of apathy and student disinterest, many on campus are getting involved in issues not specifically Union College related. For example, the area outside of the Student Activities office, at the top of the steps of Carnegie, has been occupied by students trying to gain campus support for various causes. These students have been sited more in the past few weeks than during either winter or fall term. They are trying to sway the masses and encourage interest in their chosen con- cerns. Union College community members have seen students concerned with environmental issues, the plight of the Polish workers, El Salvador and education budget cuts. We applaud these students, and their motivation. In line with this, Concordiensis would like to take note of an issue that has achieved popularity on campus, in an attempt to entice other students to join the ranks. By this action we hope to increase the political and social awareness on the campus as a whole. An issue that has peaked the interest of students at colleges all across the nation has been the Nestle boycott. We picked this particular subject since the boycott has a large following at Albany State, and is just starting to organize here. This boycott is directed at a few organizations and corporations that neglect health factors in order to make a profit. Specifically, Nestle (along with other companies), is promoting the use of infant formulas in third world nations. They are telling the mothers that bottle feeding is better for the health of their babies, which in fact it may be. The promotion of these formula products causes two major problems. First, the women are spending a large portion of their income on the formulas. This is money they cannot afford to spend on such \luxuries.\ Second, the water used to make the formula is impure in a good number of the villages, making transmission of disease to the infant easier than it already is in these nations. This disease factor is multiplied by inadequate sterilization of the bottles and equipment. The corporations have to be approached in a manner that will make them take responsibility for their actions· and products. They must be concerned about the repetition andeliminationofthis problem in the future. Perhaps more important than this specific boycott is the underlying issue of corporations putting profit before people and their health. This extends to mahy of the issues of today including the drug market, food products and all sorts of consumer products that could potentially endanger the health of the user. This affects all of us in a very direct manner. The Nestl~ boycott is a small reminder, and just one approach to the problem. In this issue is an article that appeared in the Albany State newspaper, The Albany Student Press (ASP) on April 24, 1981. It is important to read ar- ticles of this nature to try to get a perspective on certain issues, and to keep in touch with the world outside of Union College. Even if you do not believe in a cause, at least be informed. It is a critical part of our education. (See page 3.) . Read the article, discuss the issue with your friends .md decide. It takes very little time. After all, if we don't care enough to act on the issues at hand, no one will. Take responsibility--it is our right and duty. \Political Society Exists for the Sake of Noble Action and Not of Mere Companionship.\ - Aristotle Dutchwomen or Dutchwives Dear Sir: ..... I am sure that most peQple will agree that I am mme than tolerant of the women lib ty~s on campus on just abaut every issue. But when they spoil the fine tradition of Union College, then I believe it is time to take a stand. The point I object to is the constant reference in yol.lr publication to ·Union sports teams as Dutchwomen, when everyone knows that the school nickname is the Dutchmen. The term ''Dutchman\ is defined in Webster's Third New International Dictionary as either A} A member of tlle Germanic peoples of Germany, Austria, Switzerland, or the low countries, or B} A native ()f inhabitant of the Netherlands.~ Notice that the term is defin-ed without t\eference to gender. Just as women are considel.\ed part of mankind, so can they be considered Dutchmen and their . sports teams should be named as such. Needless to say, the term \Dutchwoman\ is not defined by Webster, alth~ugh the term ''Dutchwifen is. Perhaps the women's teams ()n campus could be renamed tbe ·. Dutchwives if they object w tlle present name. I realize, of course, that this letter will put me in bad stan. ding with the Women's Net- work, the Ladies Auxiliary, and other women's groups ()n campus. I would like to remi11d the gals that while Unhm College has had a decade of doing it Dutch. this instituti()n has been doing it like a Dtlt· chman for the past 186 :rears. Proudly a Dutclnnan, Jack Comrer ~81 Same Honors Due to All To the Editors: The April 30 issue of Concordiensis contained tbe names of the 1981 Orientation Advisors as well as students named to Phi Beta Kappa. I realize that the position of O . .A. is an extremely important c;ne that demands a lot of time and energy. However, I find· it difficult to appreciate the fact. that their names appeared on . tbe front page i:n a shaded oox while those students wbo received \one of the highest distinctions to be gabled by • academic achievementu ap· pear on .page 3. If C&ncorditlnsis · is going to outline the names of students who deserve recognition then I feel that it · must be consistent in sach a presentation. I am sincerely pleased tl:lat the O.A.s received such won· derful recagnition, but I think that those students such as Phi . Beta Kappa~ R.A.s, Gateamen, elected representatives, to mention a few, should be hoMrt;Jd similarly. After all, each one of these students had to apply, be interviewed or elected. Above alll they each devoted an immeMe anlPilllt of time, energy and sacrifice t() a Letters caus€ they de€med worthwhile. They S>erve the college com .. mWiity and, in turn, each one of us. If nothing else they should be properly .publicized. Sincerely. Claire Marie Burchill '8~ 'Skellar Breaks Add Up To the campus community: This letter may not apply to all of y{)u, but just to those who are immaturE, and frustrated about their OWl inability to be coordinated. Yes, rin talking about the individuals who insist upon abusing the Rathskellar games. rve s~en students kick, pound and shove the games aroUlld. 'l'he usual result is the calling of a service man, to fiK the machin~s. We've been lucky to have a good repairman who can be an:he 'Skellar within an hour after' the call. His records show that this year has been the highest num~r of service calls, most Qf whicll are connected with abuse of the machines. The gamts are not owned by the Rat, but are contracted in by a private concern. The replacement cost of thepinballs is $2,706 to $3,500. The replacement tosts of the video machine is $3,000 to $3,900. The repair of .the jukebox, due to damage by a student is estimated at $120. Parts do nQt come cheaply, so do not abuse the macbines. The owner of the games~ after seeing the abuse they take, is pretty discouraged. He haS' ·always made sure th~t the Rathskelli.tr has had th() best machines just as they come .()ff the assembly line. Usually they come to tlle Rat before anybody in the area has them. F!e' could just , as easily give us second-rate machines instead Gf the best. An example of a game he has wanted to remove. but left in Editors·in·Chief Managing Editor Associate Editor Business Editor only at my insistence, is the foosball table. This year we have had five broken rods at $32 each, and dozens of broken men and screws. Over Christmas vacation a top wa.s replaced. Due to people stuffing the pockets with foreign materials. he has just been able to keep up with the replacement costs. from the money taken in. This will probably be the first machine to go if people keep stuffing the pockets, becaUS(;l I know he can't run his business with games that don't make money. If he takes games out, God only lmows what they will be replaced with. So the riext time you are frustrated with your own inability, and feel like kicking or hitting a game, kick a brick instead. We have plenty of tllem and they dDn 't cost that much. Sincerely, TbeHeadRat Opposing the Pro-Lifers To the Students of Union · College: The women of the United States are dangerously close to losing our abortion rights if our voices are not heard. Pro-lifers are well organized and are making gains not only to repeal abortion laws r which includes the repeal of &J:ne kinds of contraceptives}. but to have vital agencies - specifically Planned t>atenthood- rern(}ved ·from the federal budg~t .. ln an article in the Saturday} M~y 2; issUe of the Sc~hectady . Gaz¢tte, it was sttlted that Donald J. Devine, Dfreetnt; of the Office of Personnel Management (formerly the Civil Service Commission}; is - COntinued on page 7 Paul Grossman, Rachel I. Mandel Julie Isgro Donna Creeley Jeff Scardino News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editor Joe Maguire Naomi Blank Dan Booth, Judi Chervenak Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Maria Manfredonia, Charis Richards Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott . Cory Lewkowicz Mindy Broser Steve Lerner Ellen Berger Lisa Snyder Steve Auerbach, Dan Rosenfield, Cindy Tenner Charis Richards, Kent Avery, A.J. D'Angelo, Cindy Tenner Arts & Cultrue Editors Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Women's Sp<Jrts Editor Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Subscriptions CartoQllist Staff Photo Staff CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schene~tadr, New York 12308· Publications Office: Susquehanna Pubhcatwns, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Ente~e~ in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscnptlon · rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Concordieuls subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS). ' Conti revie ding De vi: .pro-1 arth auth• nnw' will Th worn cam gym use serv Pla11 .the c care will TI tO VI abot to y abo1 use• ser\i you abo1 rep1 to p doe: thet let : be 1 T D Off MaJ N.V u Pat Al£1 Bu: 205' s Fa1 903 All Co 1 E( com last una I aut) writ it il piec prm app• mig an tun: rep• the run- tim• witJ autl it a \ stm the: stu Son nev aff Ag: oftE sp~ cri1 eff det Un stu No dOl go~ it c pr1 pr< ] COl va· Sb th:

... ding to Parenthood. Devine has been called· a '\good. pro .. lifer' 1 and, according to this article~ t(Devine has sole authority -to make. the ,fleeision on whe.thtr Planned Parentbood m11· .eoutinue to get .funds.\ This. issue directly affects the wnmen on the Union College campus. Since there is no otr gym care\hereJ many.students use Planned Parenthond's services. ·If. all funding to Planned Partl(lthood is cut off, the quality and cost of medical care - Union students' care - will be seriously affected. This is a critical time in which to voiee yo.uF· opinion to Devine about Planned Parenth<lod. and to yooo representatives on tbe abortion iS$ue. If you have ever used Planned Paren.th<Jod's services\ iti& yo-ur duty to voice your opinlon. And·, on· the abortion 1ssue. many .. of your re}Wesentatives vote· a~&.rding to public .opiniotkY'.our: .opinion does. malte a diffe-rence - let them· know hQW yoa~-feel. Dorlt let apathy enable your rights to be take:n·away. Their addresses are: Donald J .. Devine~ Dir-ector, Office · of Personnel Management, 1006 E Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 2041a. U.S. Senators; Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan .and Senator Alfonse D' Amato, Senate Office Building, WashingtGn, D.C. 2061(). State . Senator: Rugh T. Farley, State Capitol, Room 903, Legislative Office Building, Albany, New York 12247. Commentary: OONOORDIENSIS, May 11/J 1981 Page 7 Representative: Samuel Sti'atton, 220S Rayburn House Office Building, Washingt()n, D.C. 20515. Sineerely, Deborab Gray . All- Must Vote for Trus1ee TQ the Editors: I would like to take this op- portWJity to thank those members of the student body who took the time and effort to vote in Tuesday's electhm. However, as a candidate, I remind many ()f Union's students that the election is not over, but rather tliere will be a ·~mn-<>ff'' election on 'firursday . (today) between the top vote- · getters in each election category. Furthermore, I remind the students that the position of · Jtmfor Trastee is elected by the eatire student body~ including seni().rs, and· it is important that there is a huge tu. rn-out for 'Ihursdats elec- tion. Finally, I would like to wish the candidates, for election to all positions, the bes~ of luck and I bot)e thtt_ student body chooses. carefUlly who ·-they want tf> repr~sent them in next year's college governt'.Mnt. Thank you, A Candidate . Letters £ditorials To the Editor, 'The swastika is a sign of hate and antis~rnitism. In this aeademic community I was appalled to see this symbol written next to my son's campaign pnster ;-· · · I address this letter to the campus and to all cuncerned in an attempt to make you all aware of tbis sentiment. 1'his institution is fowtded upon the principles of liberal education designed to foster liberal attitudes - where does this type nf attitude e-ome fro-m? Respectfully Submitted. Mr. & Mrs. Allan J. Levine SOT Makes· a Plea for Photo To Whom It May Concern: ., The Sisters of Sigma Delta Tau W()uld like our umo com~ posite returned to take it, as a joke, and return it a few days later is funny. However, after 5 weeks the joke wears a little thin. The ·composite is very expensive and has a lot\ of sentimental valu-e. No questions will be asked, we, would just like it returned as soon as pOBsible: Thank You. Formula for Malnutrition By SCOTT M. SOMMER, Reprinted from the Albany Student Press 4-24-81 Malnutrition, brain damage, death. Ten million third~world · babies a year are destined to meet this fate as a result of the proliferation of \Bottle Baby Disease\ throughout Latin America, Africa and Asia. Three American companies; Abbot-Ross, American Home Products and Bristol Myers; along with the Nestle Company, a totali'y Swiss-owned multinational food processing conglomerate, have engaged in marketing practices of formula which advance \Bottle Baby Disease.\ For over a decade these companies-primarily Nestle, which has over a 50 percent share of the infant formula market-'have made it company policy to convince third·world mothers that bottle feeding their babies will lead them towards healthier, happier lives. For the overwhelming majority of mothers in the third-world, breast feeding is the most economica, convenient and nutritional method of nourishing their new born babies. Doctors and nutrition experts throughout the world have found mother's milk to be . superior to infant formula as a source of nourishment. Research has also shown that an undernourished mother can produce healthy mother's milk, without causing further damage to the mother's health. monetary and material. in exchange for support of their product. Columnist Jack Anderson has charged that Nestle has been \laundering\ money to the government of Guatemala which in turn has assassinated advocates of breast feeding, !The Guardian, February 25, 1981 ). In addition, Nestle has em- barked on a high powered media campaign in order to sell its product. This campaign includes, billboards and product labels with happy smiling babies, cheery songs and slogans, i.e. \Give Your Baby Love and Lactogen,'' trying to convey the underlying message that their babies will be like the upper-class, healthy, white babies which are bottle fed. The major problems which occur for the mothers include having to spend over 50 percent of their ·income to buy the formula; this in turn results in women having to over dilute the formula, and not being able to afford the equipment and fuel to sterilize the bottles and nipples. Also a large amount of the women live in rural villages which have impure water supplies, thus the bottle becomes the carrier of disease. They Serve to Unite One method which Nestle has adopted, is sending women in nurses' uniforms into hospitals to convince new mothers of the \virtues\ of bottle feeding. These women are company- paid employees, who use the authority that a uniform represents to manipulate the minds of these third-world women. From day one of a new- born's life, these \milk-nurses\ give the mothers free samples of formula, i.e. Lactogen, prepare the formula properly and \hook\ mother and child on the bottle. If a women doesn't breast-feed from the start, she can stop lactating inside of a week and have her supply of milk dry up. Finally there is a general lack of understanding among the women concerning proper use of the formula. There have been attempts made at putting picture instructions on the label, however as shown in the CBS documentary Into the Mouths of Babies, (1978 ), Nestle has ordered many stores to remove the label from the tins in order to avoid any re-sale ofi the black market; e.rgo many formula tins have no in- structions on them at all. In 1977, the Infant Fonnllla Action Coalition, (INFACT), launched a boycott of Nestle products as a direct action against the company~s policy concerning the marketing of infant formula. INF ACT's maiii demands are that there be a halt to \all promotion of infant formula in areas where their misuse is predictable and dangerous,\ and that· all infant formula producers adhere to the World Health Organization (WHO) code on marketing practices, which will be voted on this week. The American companies have declared a :•war on babies\ by pledging to Ignore any code which is adopted by WHO. Editor's Note: Tile following commentary was written for last week's issue. We were unable to print it with the author's name because the writer was a candidate. We felt it inappropriate to allow the piece to appear, considering the proximity of the elections. The appearance of this commentary might have given the candidate an unfair advantage. Unfor- tunately the sitllation has repeated itself this week since the candidate is in one of the run-off elections. The article is timely, and worthy. Therefore, with the permission of the author we have decided to print it anonymously. What is the purpose of a student--government? Should they simply sit to disburse student activity funds'? Sometimes. Should they initiate new, progressive ideas that will affect all Union students'? Again, sometimes, but not too often. Should they fill their spare hours misdirecting criticism and unconstructive efforts towards such in- dependent and integral parts of Union as.. fraternities and student service organizations'? No, this is out of their elected domain of concern. When any government enters this realm, it ceases to be the solution to the problem and becomes the problem itself. I believe that the time has come for us to reasses the true values of such a body as the Student Forum, remembering that the students created the Forum and not the other way somanythingsintoday's world, around. By functioning quietly the time to act on this important and diligently, the Forum can issue is now. May 12 is election best secure those goals which day on campus. If we are lucky, the students hold most im- there will be a large turnout and portant. For only in this the new Forum will know manner, can the Forum hope to ex:actly what the students want bring all the diverse factions of accomplished. If we are very Union together. No elected body lucky, the new Forum will can afford to alienate its realize that their true power lies electorate, for once this occurs, in the students themselves, and the goverrunent becomes the will proceed through the new mandated voice of no one but year remembering not to reach itself and can thus accomplish beyond the consent of the little. governed but to concentrate The new student government efforts towards building a that we elect on May 12 should · greater harmony within the Another practice engaged by Nestle is to give hospitals, doctors and other health professionals \gifts both try to remember that the basic '' Union community. function of the Forum is to work ~~~~-••••••• ---~~••••••••••llllll with us and not over us. to stand ,. by out sides and not on our backs. Once this is realized and a new perspective generated, stronger bonds can begin to re- exist between the students and the Forum by which we are represented. The students too, however, must recognize a sense of responsibility. The fact that less than one-third of the student body voted in last year's elections meant that only minimal support was needed for victory, and thus people could assend to high seats of power and speak for \all students\ when he or she might only have secured three or four hundred votes out of two thousand, a mere 20 percent. We can let this happen again and again if we wish, or we can let th()se willing to give .of their time t() sit on the ForUJ:il know that we are con- cerned about. what happens to Union and to ourselves. As with \NE\RE 2>HARING \ffiE BURDEN. -u:tE'< GET T~EIR PRoGRAM5 CUT; W£ GET OUR TA~E~ CuT. Nestle has decided to resort to a high level media-propaganda campaign in order to combat the growing international boycott of its products. Last year, they contributed $25,000 to the Ethics and Public Policy Center in Washington to research the infant formula controversy and have the ar- ticle published in Fortune magazine, (June 16, 1980). Besides being inaccurate, the article had a very pro-industry slant. A well written expose of this affair is in the Januar.v 28. 1981 issue of the Village Voice. It is clear that Nestle and the other companies have put profits before the lives of the new born. This struggle for corporate democracy and responsibility is growing rapidly here at SUNY and in the Capital District. If you have any question or would like to join the boycott, please contact Capital District INFACT, 39 Philip Street. Albany, 12207, 463-4411. . .

OONCORDIENSIS, May 14, 1981 Page 7 COIQIIl e:qtary - Letten Contmued fNm page 6 reviewing a cut-off of aU fun- ding to Planned Parenthood. Devine has been called~ \good . pro~lifer\ and 1 accor~ to this article, \]levine bas sole authority to make the c!edsion on whether Planned Parenthood will continue to get funds.'' This issue directly affects the women on the Union College campus. Since there is no olr gym care here, many ~tudents use Planned Parenthood's services. If all funding to Planned Parenthood is cut off, . the quality and cost of medical care- Union students\ care - will be seriously affected. This is a critical time in which to voice your opinion to Devine about Planned Parenth()od and to your r~presentativ~~ on the abortion issue. If you h.ave ever used Planned Parentho()d's ·. services, it is your duty to voice your opinion. And on the abortion issue, many of your representatives vote a.c<lording to public opinion. Your opinion does make a differettce - let them know how you feel. Don't let apathy enable your rights to be taken away. Their addresses are : Donald J. Devine, Director, Office of P~rsonnel Management, 1900 E Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20415. U.S. Senators; Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Senator Alfonse D' Amato, Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510. State Senator: Hugh T. Farley, State Capitol, Room 903, Legislative Offke Building, Albany, New York 12247. Commentary: Assemblyman: Clark C. Wemple, 602 State Street, Schenectady, New York 12307. Representative: Samuel Stratton, 2205 Rayburn House Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20&15. Sincerely, ])eborah Gray All Must Vote for Trustee To the Editors: I would like to take this OJ>\ portunity to thank those members of the student body who took the time and effort to vote in Tuesday's election. However. as a. candidate, I remind many of Union's students that the election is not over, but rather there will be a \run-off\ election on Thursday (today) between the top vote- getters in each election category. Farthermore, I remind the students that the position of Junior Trustee is elected by the entire student body, including seniors, and it is important that there is a huge turn-out for Thursday's elec- tion. Finally, I would like to wish the c.andidates, for election to all positions, the best of 1uck and I hope th~ student body chooses carefttlly wh.o they want to represent them in next year's college government. thank you, A Candidate Letters Editorials Appalled by Racist Action To the Editor, 'l'he swastika is a sign of hate and antisemitism. In this academic community I was appalled to see this symbol written next to my son's campaign poster. I address this letter to the campus and to aU concerned in an attempt to make you all aware of this sentiment. This institution is founded upon the principles of liberal e<lucation designed to foster liberal attitudes - where does this type of attitude come from? Respectfully Submitted, Mr. & Mrs. Allan J. Levine SOT Makes a Plea for Photo To Whom It May Concern: The Sisters of Sigma Delta Tau would like our 1980 com~ posite returned to take it, as a joke, and return it a few days later is funny. However j after 5 weeks the joke wears a little thin. The composite is very expensive and has a lot .of sentimental value. No questions will be asked, we would just like it returned as soon as possible. Thank You. Formula for Malnutrition By SCOTT M. SOMMER, Reprinted from the Albany Student Press 4-24-81 Malnutrition, brain damage, death. Tem million third-world · babies a year are destined to meet this fate as a result of the proliferation of \Bottle Baby Disease\ throughout Latin America, Africa and Asia. Three American companies; Abbot-Ross, American Home Products and Bristol Myers; along with the Nestle Company, a totally Swiss-owned multinational food processing conglomerate, have engaged in marketing practices of formula which advance \Bottle Baby Disease.\ For over a decade these companies-primarily Nestle, which has over a 50 percent share of the infant formula market-have made it company policy to convince third-world mothers that bottle feeding their babies will lead thern towards healthier, happier lives. For the overwhelming majority of mothers in the third-world, breast feeding is the most economica, convenient and nutritional method of nourishing their new born babies. Doctors and nutrition experts throughout the world have found mother's milk to be superior to infant formula as a source of nourishment. Research has also shown that an undernourished mother can produce healthy mother's milk, without causing further damage to the mother's health. monetarY and material. in exchange. for support of their preduct. Columnist Jack J\nderson has charged that Nestle has been \laundering\ money to the government of Guatemala which in turn has assassinated advocates of breast feeding, fThe Guardian, F'ebraary 25, 1981 ). In addition, Nestle has ern- barked on a high powered media campaign in order to sell its product. This campaign includes, billboards and product I abels with happy smiling babies, cheery songs and slogans. i.e. \Give Your Baby [ AJVe and Lactogen,\ trying to convey the underlying message that their babies will be like the upper-class. healthy, white babies which are bottle fed. The major problems which occur for the mothers include having to spend over 50 percent of their income to buy the formula; this in turn results in women having to over dilute the formula, and not being able to afford the equipment and fuel to sterilize the bottles and nipples. Also a large amount of the women live in rural villages which have impure water supplies, thus the bottle becomes the carrier of disease. They Serve to Unite One method which Nestle has adopted, is sending women in nurses' uniforms into hospitals to convince new mothers of the \virtues\ of bottle feeding. These women are company· paid employees, who use the authority that a uniform represents to manipulate the minds of these third-world women. From day one of a new· born's life, these \milk-nurses\ give the mothers free samples of formula, i.e. Lactogen, prepare the formula properly and \hook\ mother and child on the bottle. If a women doesn't breast-feed from the start, she can stop lactating inside of a week and have her supply of milk dry up. Finally there is a general lack of understanding among the women concerning proper use of the formula. There have been at tern pts made at putting picture instructions on the label. however as shown in the CBS documentary Into the Mouths of Babies, (1978 ), Nestle has ordered many stores to remove the label from the tins in order to avoid any re-sale on the black market; ergo many formula tins have no in- structions on them at all. In 1977, the Infant Formula Action Coalition, (INF ACT), launched a boycott of Nestle products as a direct action against the company's policy concerning the marketing of infant formula. INF ACT's main demands are that there be a halt to \all promotion of infant formula in areas where their misuse is predictable and dangerous,\ and that all infant formula producers adhere to the World Health Organization !WHO\ code on marketing practices, which will be voted on this week. The American companies have declared a \war on babies\ by pledging to ignore any code which is adopted by WHO. Editor's Note: The following commentary was written for last week's issue. We were unable to print it V\'ith the author's name because the writer was a candidate. We felt it inappropriate to allow the piece to appear, considering the proximity of the elections. The appearance of this commentary might have given the candidate an unfair advantage. Unfor- tunately the situation has repeated itself this week since the candidate is in one of the run-off elections. The article is timely, and worthy. Tllerefore, with the permission of the author we have decided to print it anonymously. What is the purpose of a student -government? Should they simply sit to disburse student activity funds? Sometimes. Should they initiate new, progressive ideas that will affect all Union students? Again, sometimes, but not too often. Should they nll their spare hours misdirecting criticism and unconstructive efforts towards such in· dependent and integral parts of Union as fraternities and student service orga11izations? No, this is out of their elected domain of concern. When any government enters this realm, it ceases to be the solution to the problem and bec~mes the problem itself. I believe that the time has come for us to reasses the true values of such a bocy as the Student Forum, remembering that the students created the Forum and not the other way around. By functioning quietly and diligently, the Forum can best secure those goals which the students hold most im- portant. For cmly in this manner, can the Forum hope to bring all the diverse factions of Union together. No elected body can afford to alienate its electorate, for once this occurs, the government becomes the mandated voice of no one but itself and can thus accomplish little. The new student government that we elect on May 12 should try to remember that the basic function ofthe Forum is to work with us and not over us, to stand by our sides and net on our backs. Once this is realized and a new perspective generated, stronger bonds can begin to re- exist between the students and the Forum by which we are represented. The students teo, however, must recognize a sense of responsibility. The fact that less than one-third of the student body voted in last year's elections meant that only minimal support was needed for victory, and thus people could assend to high seats of power and speak for \all students\ when he or slle might only have secured tltree or four hundred votes out of two thousand, a mere 20 percent. We can let this happen again and again i.f .we wish, or we can let those w1llmg to give .of their time to sit on the Forum know that we are con- cerned about what happens to Union and to ourselves. As with so many things in today's world, the time to act on this important issue is now. May 12 is election day on campus. If we are lucky, there will be a large turnout and the new Forum will know ex:actly what the students want accomplished. If we are very lucky, the new Forum will realize that their true power lies in the students themselves, and will proceed through the new year remembering not to reach beyond the consent of the governed but to concentrate efforts towards building a greater harmony within the Union community. Another practice engaged by Nestle is to give hospitals, doctoes and other health professionals \gifts both v-Jt:'RE ~HARrN0 Ti-n:: BURDEN. *'EY GET THEIR PROGRAM~ CUT; W£ GET OUR TA't.E~ CuT. Nestle has decided to resort to a high level media-propaganda campaign in order to combat the growing international boycott of its products. Last year, they contributed $25,000 to the Ethics and Public Policy Center in Washington to research the infant formula controversy and have the ar- ticle published in Fortune magazine, (June 16, 1980 l. Besides being inaccurate, the article had a very pro-industry slant. A well written expose of this affair is in the Januarv 28. 1981 issue of the Village Voice. It is clear that Nestle and the other companies have put profits before the lives of the new born. This struggle for corporate democracy and responsibility is growing rapidly here at SUNY and in the Capital District. If you have any question or would like to join the boycott, please contact Capital District INF ACT, 39 Philip Street, Albany, 12207, 463-4411.

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, May 14, 1981. • tees W~at's Happe~Jlll\f Friday May 15 Fox-Davidson all campus party SDT aU campus party Film: \The Tin Drum''-10 p.m.-ss016 Saturday May 16 Sigma Chi Clambake Israel Independence Day extravaganza--8:30 p.m.-- Cabaret room .ULAS Children's Day Men's Lacrosse and alurnni-1 p.m. Film: \The Tin Drurn\-8- 10:30-ssOlG Sunday May 17 Fibn: \The Tin Drurn\-8- 10:30-ss016 Tuesday May 19 Fiom: \A Hard Day's Nigb.t\- -8:00 p.m.-ss016 \Yellow Submarine\ Get a Job The Academic Opportunity Program (AOP) needs 4 peer tutor-counselors for its 1981 Summer Program. The Summer Program will be from July 5 through August 17, 1981 at Skidmore College. Applications now available and interviews are being arranged in the AOP Office, Bailey Hall, Room 101. For more information contact Mitzi Glenn, Director, at 370- 6115. Application Deadline: May 15, 1981 Young's Shoes, Latham Circle, Latham, New York has a Manager Training Positions available with good potential for advancement. For more information, please apply at the store .for appl~cation or bring your resume. Contact Mike Desautels. ATTENTION SENIORS: PLEASE LET THE PLACEMENT OFFICE KNOW HOW YOU ARE COMING ALONG WITH YOUR JOB OFFERS. St. John The .Evanglest, 806 , Union Street, Schenectady, N.Y., has an opening for a Math & Science Teacher for the 7th and 8th grades. No .certification is necessary. Please contact Kathleen Carney on 393-5331 if · you are interested. ~ Dunham & Marcl:lS, 950 Third Ave., New York, N.Y. 10022 has an a,pening for a MODERATOR- Consumer Qualitative Research. Full-time position, tra:vel involved, headquarters in N.Y .C: $12,000-$14,000 to DG Raffle Winners Scott Adams--Peter Pause--$5 gift certificate Marian -Oritz--Gepetto's Restaurant--S cut pizza Lori Favata--Dunkin's Donuts--2 doz. donuts S. Lavahan--Domino's--large cheese pizza N. Magliato--Mother Ferro's--buffet lunch for one AI Kercado--F ireside--8 cut pizza Mark Scardino-- Budweiser mug Paul Aronson--Budweiser mug Halina Zyczynski--Pub Pizza--8 cut pizza Barbara Moskal nick--Pub Pizza--S cut pizza Sue Stolzar--Pub Pizza--8 cut pizza Pete Weishar--Pub Pizza--a cut pizza Lori Kennedy--Coke--cooler with six pack Kevin Tooke--Coke--cooler with six pack Charles Bouchard--Coke--cooler with six pack Tom MacKay-.:Coke.--cooler with six pack L. Masztak--Pub--dinner for two (Steak & Brew) Carol Eernan--Park' V. Cafe--$10 gift certificate Tod Lewis--Sunday's--lunch for two Win Thurlow--Barnsider--dinner for two Liz Lysogorski-·Ground Round--dinner for two M. Frederlck--Moffet's--bottle of champagne Lovett--Pumkin Patch--dinner for two Jan GoldsteiA--Prlce Chopper--$50 cash If you are a prize winner, please come up to Delta Gamma with your I. D. so that the sisters may congratulate you and give you your prize. start. For further infonnation, ,please contact placement. Owner of a resort on Great Sacandaga Lake is willing tor:' .. {. • . trade housekeeping cottage 1 ~'. ; ; -- ~. o ~ •• • {Memorial Day-Labor Day) for L '- ': \~-- :,. 0 a ;,. , ~ :'·~· caretaker work. B-eautiful · ·\\- ~-.. J' · beach and woods, ideal for · Please enquire through afamily with up to three either: Mrs. O.V. Perkins, 518- children. Work load minimal 1842-9403, Apt. F4 Highland during July and August, pre· Gardens, Amsterdam, N.y., season maintenance during 12010 or John E. Perkins, 212- June. Can be combined with 244-5084, 484 W. 43rd St., No. summer courses or research. 28C, N.Y., N.Y., 10036 1st Act: Mike Zanta 2nd Aet: Mike Dellario M.C. Bill DiConza's last Cabaret for the year! Shows at 9 and 11:00 TUES., MAY 19 MILLER NITE AT THE ELECTRIC GRINCH 154 ERIE BLVD. SeeN. Y. State's Largest Miller Bottle- Over 30' tall Bill Tanner in liquid form Live Irish Music Free Irish Hors D'Ouevres· Special Miller Prices Noon-12:00 Door Prizes up the Wazoo! Clocks-Mirrors- T -Shirts-Hats Worthless Items Galore! ' 13TH ANNUAL CLAMBAKE Saturday, May 16th 1 ~6PM Sigma Chi Fever • - He Nis~ calm Pad $60's Dan Ave. Ap~ subh bedrc kitct nego1 Sven M1 of LeaJ be s Ma Prol 14 ~ Bail _I Tl: woul tear ticip Delt mak theE $500. nati Conf Blin1 Pa toth Ray perf1 of 51 race outs1 forte tean Trar Des1 Vise Born Fan Rocl

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS} May 1 4> 1981 Wqat's Happertillg Friday May 15 Fox-Davidson all campus party SOT all campus party Film: \The Tin Drum\-10 p.m.-ss016 Young's Shoes, Latham Circle, Latham, New York has a Manager Training Positions available with good potential for advancement. For more information, please apply at the store for application or bring your resume. Contact Mike Desautels. ATTENTION SENIORS: PLEASE LET THE PLACEMENT OFFICE KNOW HOW YOU ARE COMING ALONG WITH YOUR JOB OFFERS. l / • Ices St. John The Evanglest, 806 Union Street, Schenectady, N.Y., has an opening for a Math & Science Teacher for the 7th and 8th grades. No .certificatimt is necessary. Please contact Kathleen Carney on 393-5331 if you are interested. Dunham & Marcus, 950 Third Ave., New York, N.Y. 10022 has an opening for a MODERATOR- Consumer Qualitative Research. Full-time position, travel invelved, headq~:~arters in N.Y.C. $12,000-$14,000 to start. For further information, please contact placement. .A::--~q~~~~~ '\~ r, Owner of a resort on Great .;,< Sacandaga Lake is willing to?,~\' trade housekeeping cottage l~'_ ~ ~· ·_ ·. ~' . -1..,• (Memoria'! Day-Labor Day).for \- ' . .__::._~ .:;. o--. :_t.,• . 9 • • caretaker work. Beautiful ~ beach and woods, ideal for Please enquire through afamily with up to three either: Mrs. O.V. Perkins, 518- children. Work load minimal 1842-9403, Apt. F4 Highland during July and August, pre· Gardens, Amsterdam, N.Y., season maintenaace during 12010 or John E. Perkins, 212- June. Can be combined with 244-5084, 484 W. 43rd St., No. summer courses or research. 28C, N.Y., N.Y., 10036 ers-a Saturday May 16 Sigma Chi Clambake Israel Independence Day extravaganza--S: 30 p.m.-- Cabaret room Car and Susie Q.-Congrats on Fearless, Glad to see that you the house! ! Vannee prochaine survived WRUc-WQBK avec vous, yuu guys 1 t Mike artd Paulle-·What B · equple of niC\) guys!! With love, your pal, Jue) just one ~f the guys Rocko-What type {)f stallion are you? BLAS Children's Day Men's Lacrosse and alumni-1 p.m. Film: \The Tin Drum\-8- 10:30-ss016 Sunday May 17 Film: \The Tin Drum\ -8- 10:30-ss016 Tuesday May 19 Fiom: \A Hard Day's Night\- -8:00 p.m.-ss016 \Yellow Submarine\ Get a Job The Academic Opportunity Program (AOP) needs 4 peer tutor-counselors for its 1981 Summer Program. Softball Game-Nightingale &ogart-Here's looking at you. can I drink diet champagne? Little One. Maryanne, Jill and Anne---· Welcome to the suite. Nancy Sue-rm psyched! t Andy, Howie, Bret; and Eric: Rangers no longer the Big Appl~ they bite it! Islamiers reign supreme.-Devoted Islander Fan HAARRY! 600 days yester.- day, 20 years tomorrow, and · pizza for to on ,Mondar. Yuur week is filled With excitement. FBB NYAH,NYAHJNY~1 To all the Deltoids: C<ln.gratulations <Jn your initiation!! I l<lve you all. Much love always, Joe. ODETOFOSS FOSSWHERED OYOUD Mindy & Baclleih-N<~, l ditln't · wakeupintliecreek, buttbanks for checking up on me. ' Oaks...,.Great PaTty. Wish I coUld remember mure aof it. GDI. RA WTHELINE · . · . , .. . . ... , FOSSBLYTHESPIRITBEW.., ~ Nyls-rm happy that. youre ARETHINERETORT happy. Love, Little Cindy lhu· fosapureaspunksubtleas.slat~ Hoo. terns ~ ........... -. -· .--...---.,...-.,...._ fossbewarethinereward I miss lris·and 'Ferry I f.! ·Love, bbitohandtbephallicsymbols their ,kid, Cinderella. Ness-The next time Lena Sharon-! love it when you If Ma is Ma does that make ytlu Pa.? Dear Bambs-H~ppy Hoppin' Dear Paxrl~a-so f:tow does It feel? When :tuu.go tl:rAtlanta, will roll. p~ ·.·me .in . toll!' . suit~ case 1 Please. 1 pronu~e not to breatbe . ....:R~M. · Nevin-you,e been. an an!ijel the past couple Qf w~ek:s. Thaitks. 'Clare Booth Luce Bernstein-Where are you? comes to visit, don't let her go smile-Eric {a helluva ni.ce guy} out to get diet soda. ;_ ____ .....,. __ ~~-......,. ...... __.......,......,........,. ...... __ ..._. Arth-We know that you'll , make it. Good luck! .. Love~ Cin Tonucci-Yau tool Love always~ · your pally The Swnmer Program will be from July 5 through August 17, 1981 at Skidmore College. Wackat Wacka, Waeka. Eat You.-know .. whos; Hasn't been 1st Act: Mike Zanta 2nd Act: Mike Dellario th d t t tl rttt too much excitement latel'y. e o s, II\'U •• Applications now available and interviews are being arranged in the AOP Office, Bailey Hall, Room 101. For more information contact Mitzi Glenn, Director, at 370- 6115. Application Deadline: May 15, 1981 See the chicken section at Chiee Popper lately Cindy? Narf-Pm suing you t ! ! Get well soon~ Bo!! We love you!! Let's gol ! Love, Us Geoff-Happy favorite EIC 22! Your Hey!! Did you know that you should be proud to be calle{f an asshole? Love. Me DG Raffle Winners Scott Adams--Peter Pause--$5 gift certificate Marian Oritz--Gepetto's Restaurant--S cut pizza Lori Favata--Dunkin's Donuts--2 doz. donuts S. Lavahan--Domino~s--large cheese pizza N. Mag liato--Mother Ferro' s--buffet I unch for one AI Kercado--Fireside--8 cut pizza Mark Scardino--Budweiser mug Paul Aronson--Budweiser mug Hal ina Zyczynski--Pub Pizza--8 cut pizza Barbara Moskalnick--Pub Pizza--8 cut pizza Sue Stolzar--Pub Pizza--8 cut pizza Pete Weishar--Pub Pizza--8 cut pizza Lori Kennedy--Coke--cooler with six pack Kevin Tooke--Coke--cooler with six pack Charles Bouchard--Coke--cooler with six pack Tom MacKay--Coke--cooler with six pack L. Masztak--Pub--dinner for two (Steak & Brew) Carol Eernan--Park V. Cafe--$10 gift certificate Tod Lewis--Sunday's--lunch for two Win Thurlow--Barnsider--dinner for two Liz Lysogorski--Ground Round--dinner for two M. Frederick--Moffet's--bottle of champagne Lovett--Pumkin Patch--dinner for two Jan Goldstein--Price Chopper--$50 cash If you are a prize winner, please come up to D~lta Gamma w.ith your I.D. so that the sisters may congratulate you and g1ve you your pnze. M.C. Bill DiConza's last Cabaret for the year! Shows at 9 and 11 :00 TUES., MAY 19 MILLER NITE AT THE ELECTRIC GRINCH 154 ERIE BLVD. See N.Y. State's Largest Miller Bottle- Over 30' tall Bill Tanner in liquid form Live Irish Music Free Irish Hors D'Ouevres Special MillerPrices Noon-12:00 Door Prizes up the Wazoo! Clocks-Mirrors- T-Sh irts-Hats Worthless Items Galore! 13TH ANNUAL CLAMBAKE Saturday, May 16th 1 -6PM Sigma Chi Fever H< Nisl col OJ Pad $60'~ Dan Ave. Apl subl~ bedr~ kitct nego' Sven M of Leal be ~ Ma Pro I 14 ( Bail I Tt wou: tear ticip Delt mak theE $500 nati Con1 Blin Pc: to th Ray perf, of 51 race outs' fortE tear. Trar Des1 Vise Born Fan JRoc:

CONCORDIENSJS, May 11,, 1981 Page 9 · TheStudent Philsophy Forwn will meet at 9:00 on May 20 in the Humanities Lounge. All .are welcome. Geil~ral ·Nottices Home for sale in Old Niskayuna. Four bedroom colonial in excellent condition. Park-like setting. Price in the $60's. For more .infor contact Dan Singal at 1537 Grenoside Ave., Tel. 377-8918. Apartment for Summer sublet-fully furnished, 2 bedroom, living room, bar, kitchen, bathroom. Rent negotiable. Contact: Rich or Sven at 37Z-4262. Mr. Simon Majaro, President of Strategic Management Learning, London, England will be speaking on \International · Marketing~the Main Problems,\ on Thursday, May 14 at 3:30 PM in room 207, Bailey Hall. Two freshmen-sophmores with poor lottery nwnbers are looking for people to share a suite. Please ca'l:l Karyn (6706) or Mary (6500). Gay discussion group .. Monday; May 18. 8:30p.m. For place and information call: Chip-374-8237 or 370-6207 Or Dana: 37().6592. There will be a brief in- formational meeting for next year's seniors interested in ·applying for a Watson Travelling Fellowship Thur- sday, May 21, at 4:00: p.m., in Strauss Lounge. Because of Union's late start in the fall, students must begin to plan ' their proposal over the summer and fall. This meeting should not be missed. Rooms available-Phi Delta Theta, next fall. Great location (above new field), flexible meal plans, Call John W. or John M. at 382-9730. Applications for the Saxton, Porter, and Speir scholarships (for Union students who have Delta Gamma 01 ics Eggmen, 8; and Homogeneous ... -· ... ·~:...---:.ro•;.- _ .. ~P-. ~~--~ --Heroes, -4-. - :. The sisters of Delta Gamma would like to thank all the . teams, sponsors, and par- ticipants of the third annual Delta Gamma Olympics for makin~ it a success. Through the efforts of all, approximately $500.00 was raised for our national foundation, Sight Conservation and Aid To the Blind. Particular congratulations go to the first place team, Gamma Ray, for their outstanding performance by scoring a total of 51 points. There was a close race for second, and Repus Duts outscored the Southern Com- forters 35 to 34. The remaining teams scored as follows: Transylvania Ten, 29; Duval's Destroyers, 26; Victorious Viscosity, 24; Butterfield Bombers, 21; Barney Rubble Fan Club, 17; Southern Rockers, 16; Hondo's, 11; ZBT~UMOC The Brothers and Pledges of ZBT are proud to announce that over 800 dollars has been donated to the United Way of Schenectady as a result of UMOC. They would also like to thank all students and faculty members who participated in the event to help make it a great success. Sigma Chi Clambake Sigma Chi's 13th Annual Clambake and Derby Day will be held on Sat., Mahy 16 from 1 · p.m. to 6 p.m. at the Girting Center. Tickets are $6 and $3, everyone attending must have a ticket. All money raised will go to charity. This Weekend t ACADEMY AWARD WINNER ©~~~.t Foreign language Film 1979 ~ •• l..· ~ • - ;. ... . ' Ices been accepted and plan to at- tend Albany Law School) are available from Professor . Board, Dept. of Political · Sci.ence (SS 216}. Deadline for · application is July 1. A symposium on the \Development and Use of Cost ' and Wrought Iron in the 19th Century Structures\ will be · presented by Margot Gayle on May 27 at 7 p.m. in the Nott .· Memorial. ... There will be an informal seminar-recital of modern music this Friday, May 15, at · 2:30 in Arts 202. Twe members· of the New York New Music • Ensemble, Alan Feinberg and , Curtis Macomber, will play .five • pieces of 2oth century music and discuss it with members of • the audience. Included will be works by Stravinsky,. Debussy, · and Schoenberg. Those at- · Camp Union! HELP WANTED! Anyone who is interested in helping at Camp Union, please contact Cindi at 6840, Betty at 6554 or Mrs. Marra at 6118. Chemistry Club Picnic Attention all Chemistry students! The chemistry club's student-faculty picnic is going to be held the Sunday from 12:00-6:00 at the Girting Center. There will be a bar beque, beer, · salads, and desserts. Among the· afternoon e i'ents, a student- faculty softllall game is plan- ned. In the event of rain Prof. tending are encouraged :to ask questions and -to make ob- servations. Senior woman looking for an apartment for fall term. If you have a friend that will be on a term abroad this fall, that will need a place to stay during the winter and spring, CALL ME! I promise I'll go peacefully. Please call37();.6552 if you have . a place available. ' NEEDED! Four people to sublet beautiful ·spacious apartment for summer months. Fully furnished. Rent is negotiable. Please call Pam 6551 or Debbie 6891. Fre.e Love!!! Four beautiful grey kittens need homes. Call Julie at 6577 or Sharon at 6603. Furnished apartment for lease-Summer and Fall 1981. Four bedroom, full kitchen, Scaife has agreed to call a square dance. Psych Picnic The Psychology Department picnic has been changed to May 19th at 4:30 in Jackson's Gar- dens. Only $1.00 for ham- burgers, hot dogs, beer, fun and beer All who are interested are welcome . . . See you there! Fox Davidson Party The Fox-Davidson all campus party is this Friday afternoon at 2:00 between the two dorms. There will be a bar beque, lots of beer and soda, and the campus band \Quick Fix.\ The 50-50 \\ . ' bath and living room. Less than one block from campus, near Mohawk National Bank, 1583 Avenue A. Call Jeff or Rob at 6757 or 6727. Volunteers needed to serve as ushers for commencement. For · more information, contact Mike Andolina--6061 or Student Affairs Office. 3 Bedroom apartment to sublet for sUiruner. Gellespie Street! For information, call Step hie 377 ..:S322. raffle drawing will take place at the party. This is one party you won't want to miss! Thespians! There will be a general meeting of the .MollDtebanks at 7:30 pm tonight in the Nott Memorial Election of officers and next fall term's project are to be discussed. B.L.A.S. Announcements B.L.A.S. is sponsoring an all campus bus ride to Riverside Park, Agawa, Mass., for Sat., May 23. For information, see Mrs. Marra . · · ~\~G·· CAMP ,'\'s c.o WESTERN UNION , .. Friday. May 22 _ - Saturday, May 23 Food - Beer - Music - AND MUCH MORE DON'T MISS IT!! Mark Rust Amazing Folksinger, & Songwriter from Ithaca, New York Friday, May 1 5th 8:30 in Cabaret Room Carnegie Hall Coffeehouse only one dollar at the door • > ~...t~ .. \~-~ .... ·~<:.r.~WJ.J'¥.t.l.\'~ . .-.1-....~W..\'~~~~M~:~;i~~~~~~~~i.if'1 ... t.r.,.~\: . .--~~.;.•1'!fii~\--_

nd it to CONCORDIENSIS, May 14, 1981 Page 9 '. .. ~ . \-\ .L .. ~ ~,... Jo 0 \_ .-\\[!.\\\.q Ge:Qeral N~ttices Home for sale in Old Niskayuna. Four bedroom colonial in excellent coNdition. Park-like setting. Price in the $60's. For more infor contact Dan Singal at 1537 Grenoside Ave., Tel. 377-8918. Apartment for Summer sublet-fully furnished, 2 bedroom, living room, bar, kitchen, bathroom. Rent negotiable. Contact: Rich or Sven at 377-4262. Mr. Simon Majaro, President of Strategic Management Learning, London, England will be speaking on \International Marketing-the Main Problems,\ on Thursday, May 14 at 3:30 PM in room 207, Bailey Hall. Delta Gamma Olympics The sisters of Delta Gamma would like to thank all the teams, sponsors, and par- ticipants of the third annual Delta Gamma Olympics for making it a success. Through the efforts of all, approximately $500.00 was raised for our national foundation, Sight Conservation and Aid To the Blind. Particular congratulations go to the first place team, Gamma Ray, for their outstanding performance by scoring a total of 51 points. There was a close race for second, and Rep us Duts outscored the Southern Com- forters 35 to 34. The remaining teams scored as follows: Transylvania Ten, 29; Duval's Destroyers, 26; Victorious Viscosity, 24; Butterfield Bombers, 21; Barney Rubble Fan Club, 17; Southern Rockers. 16: Hondo's, 11; The Student PhHsophy Forum will meet at 9:00 on May 20 in the Humanities Lounge. All are wei came. Two freshmen-so}lhmores with P<>er lottery nambers are looking for people to share a suite. Please cal'l Karyn (6706) or Mary (6500). Gay discussion group. Monday, May 18. 8:30p.m. For place and information call: Cl;}ip-374-8237 or 370-6207 Or Dana: 370-6592. There will be a brief in- fermational meeting for next year's seniors interested in applying fo·r a Watson Travelling Fellowship Thur- sday, May 21, at 4:00 p.m., in Strauss Lounge. Because of Union's late start in the fall, students must begin to plan - their proposal over the summer and fall. This meeting should not be missed. Rooms available-Phi Delta Theta, next fall Great location (above new field), flexible meal plans. Call John W. or John M. at 382-9730. Applications for the Saxton, Porter, and Speir scholarships (for Union students who have Eggmen, 8: and Homogeneous Heroes, 4. ZBT-UMOC The Brothers and Pledges of ZBT are proud to announce that over BOO d-ollars has been donated to the United Way of Schenectady as a result of UMOC. They would also like to thank all students and faculty members who participated in the event to help make it a great success. Sigma Chi Clambake Sigma Chi's 13th Annual Clambake and Derby Day will be held on Sat., Mahy 16 from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. at the Girling Center. Tickets are $6 and $3, everyone attending must have a ticket. All money raised will go to charity. This Weekend i ACADEMY AWARD WINNER ,,~~~,t Foreign language Film 1979 Roger Corman the 'P~senl!<t Tin Drum R \\.'\' 0 '\\ - © 1979 Franz Seitz Film·Bioskop Film· u~:~~:~.~,u~·::L~c,'J~~::~~ Artemis Film-Argos Films • Ices been accepted and plan to at- tend Albany Law School) are available from Professor Board, Dept. of Political Science (SS 2~6 ). Deadline for application is July 1. A symposium on the \Development and Use of Cost and Wrought Iren in the 19th Century Structures\ will be presented by Margot Gayle OR May 27 at 7 p.m. in the Nott MemoriaL \' There will be an Lnformal seminar-recital of modern music this Friday, May 15, at 2:30 in Arts 202. Two members of the New York New Music Ensemble, Alan Feinberg and Curtis Macember, will play five pieces of 2oth century music and discuss it with members of the audience. Included will be works by Stravinsky, Debussy, and Schoenberg. Those at- Camp Union! HELP WANTED! Anyone who is interested in helping at Camp Union, please contact Cindi at 6840, Betty at 6554 or Mrs. Marra at 6118. Chemistry Club Picnic Attention all Chemistry students! The chemistry club's student-faculty picnic is going to be held the Sunday from 12:00-6:00 at the Girling Center. There will be a barbeque, beer, salads, and desserts. Among the afternoon events, a student- faculty softball game is plan- ned. In the .;vent of rain Prof. tending are encouraged to ask questions and -to make ob- servations. Senior woman looking for an apartment for fall term. If yeu have a friend that will be on a term abroad this fall, that will need a place te stay during the winter and spring, CALL ME! I promise I'll go peacefully. Please call 370-6552 if you have a place available. NEEDED! Four people to sublet be a utihl spacious apartmeRt £<i>r summer months. Fully furnished. Rent is negotiable. Please call Pam 6551 or Debbie 6891. Free Love!!! Four beautiful grey kittens need homes. Call Julie at 6577 or Sharon at 6603. Furnished apartment for lease-Summer and Fall 1981. Four bedroom, fuU kitchen, Scaife has agreed to call a square dance. Psych Picnic The Psychology Department picnic has been changed to May 19th at 4:30 in Jackson's Gar- dens. Only $1.00 for ham- burgers, hot dogs, beer, fun and beer All who are interested are welcome ... See you there! Fox Davidson Party The Fox-Davidson all campus party is this Friday afternoon at 2:00 between the two dorms. There will be a barbeque, lots of beer and soda, and the campus band \Quick Fix.\ The 50-50 bath and living room. Less than one block from campus, near Mohawk National Bank, 1583 Avenue A. Call Jeff or Rob at 6757 or 6727. Volunteers needed to serve as ushers for commencement. For more information, contact Mike Andolina--6061 or Student Affairs Office. 3 Bedroom apartment to sublet for summer. Gellespie Street! For information, call Stephie 377-8322. raffle drawing will take place at the party. This is one party you won't want to miss! Thespians! There will be a general meeting of the Mountebanks at 7:30 pm tonight in the Nott Memorial Election of officers and next fall term's project are to be discussed. B.L.A.S. Announcements B.L.A.S. is sponsoring an all campus bus ride to Riverside Park, Agawa, Mass., for Sat., May 23. For information, see Mrs. Marra. ~\~c;,\\ CAMP tO WESTERN UNION Friday. May 22 .. Saturday, May 23 Food - Beer - Music - AND MUCH MORE DON'T MISS IT!! Mark Rust Amazing Folksinger, & Songwriter from Ithaca, New York Friday, May 15th 8:30 in Cabaret Room Carnegie Hall Coffeehouse only one dollar at the door

Page 10 OONCOBDIENSIS, May 14) 1981 SB Sixth • 1n The Union College women's softball team traveled to Albany State last Friday and Saturday to participate in the New York State Tournament for the first time. Union was seeded fourth in the tournament, and emerged sixth in the state. The first game of the tour- nament was played against Albany, a team the Dut- chwomen have faced twice before. The Dutchwomeil lost their first game of the weekend, 9-5. Nerves played a big part in this game as Union committed five errors, including four in the initial three innings that led to seven of Albany's nine runs. The Great Danes, who had dropped a 10-4 decision at Union before winning a 14-1 verdict on the final day of the regular season, jumped in front, 2-0, in the first inning with the aid of a pair of Union miscues. Albany made it 4-0 after two frames with the help of three hits and an error. Four singles, a walk, a sacrifice fly and another Dutch- woman error helped the Danes build its 7-0 lead. The momentum swung to Union in the last of the fourth inning after Dina Pliotis had retired Albany in order for the first time in the top of the in- ning. Lynn Leblanc rapped a two-run single and Carolyn Bigda drove home a run to cut Albany's advantage to 7-3. Union tallied another run in the fifth to make it 5-0, but lost the momentwn and a chance for further runs when Deb Downey was cut down at the plate. Coach Jane Hopkins' team, which ends the season with an overall record of 7-6, came back in the second game of the double-elimination ·tournament with a 7-6 victory ov:er Brooklyn. A five-run second inning was keyed -by two Brooklyn errors and Carol Wrenn's run~scoring double. Kirsten Petersen, . Brenda Hugick, and Lynn Leblanc also contributed hits to the big frame. Softball Statistics PLAYER Leblanc Roth Wrenn Liese Bigda Gut in Petersen Hugick Bailey Downey Pliotis 0' Donnell Wright Bonk-Vasko TOTALS: AB 34 2 31 34 39 31 27 31 12 36 27 6 12 3 325 H R RBI 17 13 12 1 14 15 11 14 12 7 13 8 15 10 15 9 8 8 2 8 9 7 3 3 4 9 15 2 6 7 5 1 3 1 2 1 105 110 81 AVG. .500 .500 .451 .411 .333 .322 .296 .258 .250 .250 .222 .166 .083 .000 .289 HR 1 2 1 1 5 PITCHER IP H R ER BB Pliotis 64 1.3 92 66 34 28 Petersen 7 2-3 21 23 18 5 TOTALS 72 123 89 52 33 SO ERA 19 3.71 1 15.75 20 5.05 Games Forfeited: 1-1 2b 3b 3 1 1 1 \ - 1 1 1 1 8 3 w-·L 6-3 0-2 7-6 State Union was eliminated from the tournament as it forfeited a 7-0 decision to Queens following an injury to shortstop Deb Downey in the bottom of the first. Downey attempted a bunt against an unusually fast Queens pitcher, but a com- bination of the position of the bunt and an inside pitch caused -~ the ball to strike her in the face. E She left the field for the bench, j and a runner was sent to first Ill for her. The second Union t batter, Carol Wrenn, walked, ~ and Linda Gutin and Kelly Liese ~ · both struck out. Lynn Leblanc grounded out, sending the Dutchwornen out to the field for the second inning. Leading Lax scorer Holly Howard The Dutchwomen held ~two outs over Queens when the ambulance arrived to take DoWiley to the hospital and Coach Hopkins called a time out. The game was forfeited at this time, but it was decided to play a few more innings after switching the Queens infield around. The game was called after five innings~ due to a need for the field. Nthough the game was legally forfeited during the second inning, the Dutchwomen were ahead after five innings. Women's Lacrosse: New Record Set Coach Hopkins' Dutchwomen made an impressive showing in the state tournament, despite their losses to Albany and Queens. The softball team loses only two senior members of this year's squad, Debbie DoWney and Sheila O'Donnell. With the strength and skill they exhibited this season, there is no reason to expect that fhey won't do at least as well next season, if not even better. See you next year, softball team! Sophomore Holly Howard established a new Union .single- season scoring record as she tallied 44 goals to lead the Dutchwomen lacrosse team to · an 8-3 record, the best ever in the seven-year history of the sport atthe Schenectady school. Howard, who had 37 goals last year, tallied at least twice in every one of Union's 11 games. The Dutch women, under fourth- year coach Martha 'Marty' Morrison, outscored its op- ponents, 102-73 including a 54-32 margin in the second half. Junior Sheryl Katz and sophomore Emily Monosson finished second and third with TRY A FRENCH PASTRY AT ••• 24 and 19 goals respectively. Union, which won its final five games of the season by a 58-25 bulge, will graduate only three seniors: Mary Beth Burnett, Nancy Colt and Buthaina Shukri. Perhaps the biggest im- provement over the course of the season was that of sophomore Sue Bloomberg. The first-time varsity starter kicked out 145 shots during the year and allowed opponents to hit double ~igures only twice. Union, which is looking to strengthen its schedule next year, is optimistic. about qualifying for the 1982 New York State Tournament. Support Union Sports Ia Patisserie is a French Pastry Shop specializing in many fine pastries baked fresh daily in Schenectady just up the street from the Proctor's. Union Women's Lax Statistics Goals Holly Howard Sheryl Katz Emily Monos son Liz Garcia Debbie Goldberg Nancy Colt Mary McGrath Sue Ensel . Buthaina Shukri Nancy Schuster Total Score by halves ·saves 44 Susan Bloomberg--145 24 19 Results 6 Union 10, Skidmore 9 4 Army 13, Union 5 1 Union 13, Russell Sage 1 1 Hartwick 8, Union 5 1 Union 5, Wells 4 1 Middlebury 13, Union 5 1 . Union 12, Oneonta 6 102. Union 13, Castleton 6 UN ION 48 54 102 Union 13, Russell Sage 6 Union 14, .. Williams JV 6 Union 6, Hamilton 2 Opponents 41 32 73 RE COR. D: 8-3 In addition we offer complete table service where you can enjoy slices of our cakes, tortes, along with our variety of danish, cookies, fruit tarts, cream puffs, napoleans artd eclairs, along with an ever increasing product line. Ia Patisserie would like to invite all the Union College community to enjoy the aesthetics of our 11 Pastry Cafe\ as well as our production area. Merci Beaucoup for· your Patronage! Open Tues.•Sat. 8:00am • 5:30pm TE The Tennis season· disapp powerfi bringin wins ar The' continu College score. Lestin2 Katz a1 victori1 put 01 against the tea and rec of the~ won a straigh Moore were 1 beatin! ponent Agai team, deterrr rivals row,tb for rev and n single~ Union single mana€ Levim the fi Antile: pushe< sets b Unic back practi< 7-2. 1 Moore victor: Josh. Mean, Moon thre.e: Antile Esken straig Ne:x J. Thj lacro seasc victo SUN' chmj Elen a 5-f four To COIDJ awa~ the Dutc capi1 first fina1 sweE the P.Ost, ' seas suff lossj Mid, res~ D1 recc entJ (co~ tra' En~ if ' thet Uni, gan win fon Am pon wh< at

' CONOORDIENSIS, May 14, 1981 B:yS. BOVIER N. Y .S. Tllruway to visit Hamilton C()llege 1 whEre Barry The Union College Men's Rosenberg played one of the Tennis Team closed ·out their finest matches of bfs Union season this past weekend with a career .. After losing tbe second: disappoil'lting 7-2 loss to set.tiebreaker,. Rosenberg came powerful SlJNY -Binghamton, on strong to take the tllird set, 6 brirtgingtheir season record to 5 games to 3. Meanwhile, at 6th wins and /losses. singles, Dave Katz nanaged to The week before saw Union take the last two sets of his continue t<> dominate Skidmore match, as Union ·eatered the College by an impressive 8-1 doubles matches down 4 te 2, score. Barry Rosenberg, Tom needing to win two 'out of thr.ee Lestina, Dwight Moore, Dave doubles matches. Despite this, Katz and Bob Stratton were all only thetea:m of Dave Patalita victorious at singles. Union then and Dwight Moore ul.anaged to put on a powerful display come away ·with a three set against a weaker Siena team, as victory, as Union 14Jst 6 matches the team Jllayed flawless tennis to 3. and recortded their first shutout P,arents Weekend! saw Union ofthe year, a9-0 victory. Union visited by a powerful Colgate won all <>f their matches in team, and despite a winning addition, Howie Brodsky, Bob Stratton, Hank Hoffman, Paul Shaskan, Dwight Janerich, and Stu Bober will all be :t~eturning next year in hopes of seeing some tennis action. The only loss to this year's team will be Senior Captain and first singles player Barry Resenberg who is graduating. :V Resenberg played four good E years of Union tennis. j With experienced tennis Qj coach Al Bagnoli able to return ~ next year to guide the tennis tii team and make each player }; realize their potential ability, o Union should look forward to a o ;.c:: winning season next year. o. Page 11 \ . ' l ,./t '< (.· { l ( • ,. ,- l ~' .. ' ' , < • Tom Lestina hard at pradice straight sEts, except for Dwight performancE turned in by Josh Moore aad Tom Lestina, who Antiles at 5th singles, and the were pus'hed to 3 sets before team of Patalita and. Moore at beating their respective op- doubles, Union lost by a score of Ruggers Lose Close One ponents. 6-3. Against a tough Albany State Union's season -ended as team, although Union was Union faced its toughest op- determined to beat their arch ponents ()f ,tbe year. In the first rivals fo~ tile second year in a match ~:tgainst 'M id'dle bury row, the A.lbany_ team was eager College, althotigh Dwight Moore for revenge over last year's loss -. and Tom Lestina came up with and maaaged not . to lose a clutch singles victories, Union singles match as they defeated fell to the tough Middlebury Union 7 rnatches to 2. At first team by a score of 6-3. singles, Barry Rosenberg Union's last match was ma~aged to take a set off Ba:ry against SUNY - B-inghamton Levme of Roslyn, before losmg and a big crowd tUI'\Iled out to the final set 6-3, and Josh support the Union team. Antiles and Dwight Moore also UnfortUllately, only Dave Katz pushed their opponents to three was able b win at6th singles, sets before losing. · and he tea:med up -with Steve Union managed to bounce Eskenazi to win at do11bles, as back a~ter a tough week of Union lost its last m<~tch of the practice and drills to beat RPI season 7 mcatches to 2. 7-2. The consistent Dwight The teaii): wasgrac:ed with the Moore came up with a singles presence this year of such victory, as did Steve Eskenazi, talented fr-eshmen as Dwight Josh AntHes, and Dave Katz. Moore, Josh Antiles., and Dave Meanwhile. in doubles play, Katz, wbo all appear to have Moore aad Dave Patalita won m bright tenlliS futures at Union. thre.e sets, while Rosenberg and As luck would have it, all of this Antiles, and Dave Katz and year's starting playErs (except Eskenazi, both came up with one) will return 11ext year, straight set victories. including Tom Lestina, Dave Next, \Union traveled up the · Patalita., andSteve Eskenazi. In By MICHAEL SHARP An injury plagued Union Rugby squad suffered a close loss to the Engineers of RPI this Saturday in Troy. Missing from action due to injury were wing Paul Cun- ningham,. out for the season with a broken blood vessel in his arm and scrurnmer Jim Heminway, who retore the surgery in his ankle midway through the first half of the A game. Further weakening the squad was the absence of co- captain Craig Bell who couldn't attend for personal reasons. The Union club, full of anxious rookies, faced a fired- up Engineer team in the first half. RPI came out hitting hard, and by utilizing the speed of an exceptionally quick wing soon had two scores. The Dutchmen, confused by the early Engineer onslaught, made -several mistakes and had trouble working as a team. At the .half time break Union analyzed its problems and when second half play resumed they were able to significantly im· prove their game. Keeping the ball away from the engineer serum, thereby preventing the lineouts and serum downs that they had trouble controlling in the first half, the Garnet ruggers soon set up inside center Matt Blum for a score .. Heartened by Blum's tally the Garnet serum began crashing the ball and the line began hitting hard thus preventing RPI from gaining any significant ball possession. With the ball mostly in Union's hands throughout the second half, the Dutchmen kept up a tremen- dous amount of offensive pressure. Yet, they couldn't get the ball over the try line. dismayed to learn it had to take the field for a second game. The , Dutchmen, lacking the depth for a B squad had assumed there wouldn't be a second game. However, the RPI B squad had stayed a week after finals for a crack at the Dut- chmen and the Union ruggers had to take the field. Showing the team work displayed in the second half of the first game the Dutchmen destroyed the B Engineers sixteen to zero. Matt Blum and Jack Snapkowski scored try's while Danny May's lethal boot was responsible for a point after kick and two penalty kick scores. Contented with their B game performance the Union ruggers were finally able to do some serious. drinking with the Engineers. J. V. Lax Win S,eason Finale The final whistle sounded with RPI having eight points and Union having four. Looking forward to a little relaxation and post game drinking the Union squad was Union looks forward to a tough game in two weeks against the nationally reknown Albany Knicl(s. Come out and support the Union College Rugby team. :By ROBERT BASSIN The Men's junior varsity lacrosse team woWld up its season on Friday with a 8-5 victory ()Ver the Bulldogs from SUNY at Albany. The Dut- chmen~ coached by Keith Eleme111, finished the year with a 5-5 ()'VeraU record, winning four of their last five games. To recap the season, J.V. play cornme11ced on April 8 with an away game vs. Ablany State; the gune was won by the Dutchmen's rivals from the capital by a score of 13-9. This first gaii!e loss made the team's final game triwnph all the more sweet. Next the squad hosted the En.gineers from RPI and P.osted their - first win of the season,. 11-3. The team then suffered three consecutive losses to HVCC, Skidmore, and Middlebury, 13-4, 17-1, and 8-6 respectively. Determined to improve its record and sparked by the enthusiasm of captain Joe (coach) Bosco, the Dutchmen traveled to Troy to take on the Engineers for a second time. As if they hadn't embarrassed them enough the first time, Union came away from the game with an incredible 13-0 win, an outstanding per- formallce by goaltender. John Amab. The team's next op- ponent was Williams College, whom the Dutchmen defeated at bome 9-5. In the ensuing game on M:ay 2 it lo~ked like the Union rnea were in for a battle against the Ham.ilt()n Con- tinentals when at tlalftime the score read 2-1 in UBion's favor. ·However, in the second half Union came out fired u.p and the Continentals just couldn't contt·ol them. When the final whistle had been blown the score was 13-1, Union, stret- ching tbe J .V. winning streak to three tames~ Another crushing defeat by the Giants of Hudson Valley stopped the Union winning streak before they concluded their season with the win over Albany. While the whole team played a fine season, mention Should be made of those .individuals who made special contributions to the tean1, effort. On attack, Andy :KIL\\sch, Adam Brodsky, and Bob Taybr all had tremendous seas>Ons, Kirsch leading the team with 31 goals. On the ()ther end .of the field Mike CasteUa:no, Doug Ostrov~r .. and .Jeff Sears were all particularly effective in stopping the opposieion drive. Among the mid.fielders who had particularly good :Seasons were Joe Bos~o •. Tim J«lhnson, T. J. Bailey, Billy Bauer, and Fra_nk Skorina,. Rob Norton, e1th \Dick'' Dean and 'I'erryl Van Ingan. . Lookillg to the futwe. with a ymmg team a11d lots of spirit, next year's J.V. lacrosse looks to be-as promising and perhaps even team. more than this year•s Athlete of the Week By MIKE SHARP Mike Saccocio is the Miller Athlete of the Week. His out- standing performance at bat and in the field has insured him this honor. Nicknarn ed \Reggie Jackson\ by his teammates, Mike shows an incredible in- tensity while playing ball. In the last five games he batted fifteen times with nine hits, including six singles and three doubles, while knocking in ten RBis and scoring five runs. His batting average was an outstanding .600, and he was five for five in stolen bases. His season perfor~rnance was truly exceptional. In seventeen total games he had twenty-three hits for fifty-nine at bats, with seventeen RBis. His average was .390, the highest on the team. He was second on the team for RBis and second on the team for stolen bases, with thirteen. Without the five games rained out this season it's .probable that Mike would have had five more hits and broken the Union College hitting record. Next year Jax! On the defense Mike has twenty-five putouts for the season. He dispal~s a certain flair while fielding and has been known to ham up routine cat- ches, much to the consternation of opposing batters. Mike, a sophomore political science major, also excells in the classroom with a 3.5 academic cum. No surprise since in high school he was a Dean's list student and student council president. Mike is from Schenectady NY, where as a ballplayer for Schalmont High School he was Allo.Colonial Council. He was also captain of his soccer team and played varsity basketball. Congratulations Mike, and good luck for the future. Athlete of the Week Mike Saccacio

Page 12 OONCORJJIENSIS, May 14~ 1981 . ' .. · -· . .. • ' '. ' ' I ' \ . ' . . ' . . ,, . ' - . . ' ' Win 6 of la,st 7 Baseball Finishes .500 Ry GEORGE OBERSTkDT Ill' \ After a dbappointing <j.lJ stan, the Union nine turned arol!Ild the season by winning 7 of 9 to finish with a respectable 9-9 record. The Dutchmen were ~1 . .the past week with big wins cmning against Albany State and Univ. of Rochester. with 2 unearnedruns. Joe Wood ran his team leading RBI total to 20, with a 2-run single that knotted the game at 3-3. Andy ,_ Dreher contributed two doubles :g in the losing cause. ~· The writers of this article ..J would like to extend extreme ~ thanks and best wishes for the ~ future to the departing seniors,. >- Dan Thomson, Stever . Goll, ..o Wayne Riker, and Sam Sharp. .E The team will surely miss their ..§. services next year. Perfectly executed suicide squl;leze lJ nion opened the week with a 9-6 victory over Albany, who came into the game with a 13-2 record and hopes for an NCAA birth. Union jumped out to an early lead when Mike Saccocio doubled home 2 runs and scored on a triple by Joe Wood. Andy DFeher then singled to right, scoring Wood, and making the score 4-0. Albany came back to take a 6-5 lead but a 4-run sixth inning provided Union with the margin for victory. The big hit in the 6th was a bases.:loaded tri()le by Andy Dreher. The game's winning pitcher was Paul McGrath, who raised his record to 2-0. McGrath pitched 6 and. two-thirds innings allowing 5 earned runs and striking out 5 Alb~ny batters. Glenn Kinns picked up the save by pitching 2 and one-third scoreless innings. On Wednesday, Union defeated a t()Ugh St. Lawrence team in a well played 2-0 game. Senior Wayne Riker was the star of the garne, twirling a brilliant 5-hit sh11tout. Mike Saccocio provided Riker with the only run he needed with an RBI double in the 4th inning. Union addEd an unearned run in the 5th after a single !Jy AI DiLJbero. (ranked 3rd in New York - Division III) coming into the game. Glenn Kinns pitched superbly, allowing just 2 earned runs and striking out 11 in 10 innings. However the star of the game was catcher Ed' Moriarty, who with two outs in the top of the ninth and Union trailing by 2, blasted a 2-run llomer to right center sending tile game into extra innings. In the loth, Mike Saccocio singled, advanced to second on an error, and scored what proved to be the winning run when Steve Goll lined a single to ·left. Other Union RBrs came on singles by Mike Sac- cocio and Joe Wood. Union ended their road trip with a double-header sweep over Hobart. In the first game the Dutchmen scored 4 runs in fhe 7th inning to erase a 3-3 tie and provide Riker with all the runs he needed enroute to his 3rd victory. The big hitter of the game was Mike Saccocio who went 3-for-3 and drove in 4 runs. Joe Wood and Andy Dreher added 2 hits apiece as Union banged out 11 hits. In the second game, Paul McGrath raised his record to 3-0 by recording a 7-6, extra inning decision. The winning run was scored in the 8th inning when AI DiLibero laced a single to center. Lacrosse Drops Pair Traveling to Rochester, the Dutdunen came up with their biggest win of the year. The Univ. of Rochester was 14~ Union lost their final game of the year to a tough RPI squad, 4-3, snapping their 6 game winning streal<. Sam \Jam- mer\ Sharp started the game for the Dutchmen and pitched well for 2 and one-third innings, allowing just one e,arned run. Glenn Kinns relieved Sharp and checked RPI on just 1 hit in 6 innings. Errors were the team's nemesis as RPI won the game By STEVE MYERS Even though the season is nearing its end, tough op- ponents seem to arise everywhere, as Union travelled to challenge the Statesmen of Hobart College, currently ranked first in Division III. This old rivalry was to be rekindled, after having been set apart by the changes through the years. Facing this renowned powerhouse, Union strived to be respected as a worthy opponent. As the game proceeded, each team scored in succession, unt-il the Dutchmen netted a goal to take the lead 4-3 in the second quarter. However, Hobart rallied back to take the halftime lead, 5-4. The fiery Garnet team seemed to cool down after the halftime break, as the Hobart team proceeded to dominate and capitalize on Union mistakes. The Union team failed to revive its power of the Golf Plays Out at 5-3 By ED BERNDT Tile varsity golf team started and finished their season. in 2 weeks and 8 matches. Their first match was a tri-match against Utica College and Hamilton College at Utica's golf course. Being a rainy day, and the golfers' first match, they carne out of the day very well by~­ scoring a double victory. Uni(ln's score of 429, led by Jeff Peters' score of 83, was enough to bEat Hamilton by 7 shots, and Utica by an amazing 34 shots. The next match was against Sienna at Union's home course, the Mohawk Golf Club. The golfers again came out a winner with a total of 335 led by the low score of 80 shot by freShman Chip Hauser. Sienna came out of tile day with a 351, 16 shots shy of the Union golfers. The very next day our gold team played at Skidmore. Although ther-e was a small problem with gnats on the course, Union emerged victorious, again led by Jeff Peters and his score of 78. Skidmore came out 21 shots short of Union's tally of 420. The next match at Williams proved to be the toughest for the Union golfers. In last year's 8-1 recmd, Union's only defeat was at the hands of Williams powerful golf squad. This was to be another tri-match with the other team being the American International College. The pressure was too great for the Dutchman squad, and they ended up with a split for the day. Union's final tally of 436, led by Ed Berndt's score of 80, was not enough to beat Williams' 413 but was more than enough to beat A.I.C.'s score of 476. Very disappointed, the golf team knew that they could not better their last season's record. The last 2 matches were total disasters .for our golfers. They first lost to Hartwick on our home turf by 8 shots. It was a rough day for most of the golfers with the average score being 85. The last match was against Middlebury and proved to be even worse. Minus two of our top golfers, Ed Berndt and Gary Spector, Union's rusty team was far inferior to Mid- dlebury's extremely polished team. The loss was by a score of Union-443, and Middlebury-404, a difference of 39 shots. Watch·for: The Union golf team ended its season at 5-3, far less than they expected. Next year should prove to be much better, since none of Union's golfers will be graduating. Retw-ning will be·: Ed Berndt, Mark Loeffel, Jeff Peters, Tim O'Brian, Gary Spector, and Mike Anzen- berger. Also returning will be Coach Bill Scanlon, who did a '- fantastic job with this year's :g L teBUal. ~ This year, as opposed to last w year, the team was not blessed ~ with good weather. Sloppy t;; course conditions did indeed >- hamper the team's overall .c performance: Next year -5 though, with the attractive '§. Mohawk GolfClub as the team's home turf, the golf team should perforn1 up to their ex- pectations. Intramural ·Regular Seaso-n Wrap-up Coming Next Weeki first half, as Hobart· continued to score. Subsequently, the game ended in a Statesmen win of 17-5 over the Dutchmen, disheartened yet proud to have played a respectable game against this team. Previous to this match, Hobart had defeated convincingly several teams from both Divisions I and III. Their list of opponents in- cluded the Orangernen fiom Syracuse, from whom Hobart had to accept a 12·11 overtime loss. During the wekend, the U11ion laxmen visited another strong contender in Hamilton, N.Y., Colgate University. This year's Colgate team defeated colleges Union had failec;l. to beat, such as RPI, Geneseo State, and Hartwick to name a few. Nevertheless, it has been several years since the onset of a Colgate victory. Unlon, determined to match its play of the first half of the Hobart Sean Durham sprints down field game, took the field with strong desire to leave the field as the victors. The whole game was like a ping-pong match, both teams keeping eveen con- stantly, the score at halftime, 5- 5. Not until late in the fourth quarter did time mean so much to this Union team as Colgate led by one goal. Despite valiant effort, Colgate managed to hold onto the lead to grasp the win, 12-11. Even with the strong offensive, led by Sean Durham and Jim Wright with three goals each, Marc Marro and Dave Schumann each delivering a pair, Larry Salberg soloing, and solid defensive play, supported · by superb goal-tending by John Mercer, Union was unable to surpass the stubborn Colgate team. The Union team presently stands at 3-11. seeking to end up the season on a high note by subduing the team from Albany State this week at home. The. Block \U\ Society announces the following winners of their: benefit raffie held on April 13th. 1. $25 gift certificate from Cranberry Bog--Eileen & Geri, 1068 Wendell . 2. $25gift certificate fr.om Fox & Murphy--Tom McKibbin 3. $25 gift certificate fnmi Ritz Restaurant--Perky Francis 4. $20 gift certificate from Pumkin Patch-·Donna Sykes s. $10 gift certificate from Pare V Cafe--Brian Garfield 6. $10gift certificate from Pare V Cafe--Pam Meyer 7. $10 gift certificate from Barnsider·-M.B. Burnett 8. Dinner for 2 at Groun~ Round--Pamela Viglielmo 9. Lunch for 2 at Steak & Ale--Eve Somerstein 10. Electric Skate Palace--Ira Brvorkin--Fox 113 Winners m<w pick up their prizes in Marty Morrison's office in Alumni Gym. Thanks to everyone for their support. Vol. Mik Uni to s Ft Fo on tl have therr repr· In ThUI 65.5 Wolj posil defe for Pre~ defe 37.8: Prei Stev Johr foru rep rece wer• 20.0' 5.6): -~ Squi Thu: sea1 rep recE Ope Cho: Tl (WE posi tatb

Vol. 110, No .. 24 Mike Andolina will annpunce on Monday whether or not Union fraternities, sororities and co-ops accept his proposal to set up a food buying cooperative. Thu.rsday, May 21, 1981 Campus Co-op Considered By JOE MAGUIRE Manager's Association (RF- MA) in Troy. Brown's business The Dean of Students' Offic~ .serves 27 fraternities at Ren· is working to create a sselaer Polytechnic Institute cooperative food buying group (RPI) and nine organizations at -oncampusto assist fraternities, Union. Brown is aware of sororities and co-ops in saving Andolina's ·efforts and would money. prefer-.to maintain his b~iness 'the idea is Assistant Dean of ties to Union. Students Mike Andolina's. Andolina thinks his plan is Andolina feels that Union better than what the RFMA has fraternities lose most of their to offer. The Troy group money through ldtchen ex- charges one-half percent per penses, and that his proposed day interest against delinquent Fraternity Man age r 's ~-accounts. Presently, several Association (FMA) would h!;:!lp Union organtzations are losing alleviate some of these losses. money through this policy. Cliff Brown is president of the Andolina claims that the Union R ens s e 1 a e r Fraternity Association would not allow its members to become this Andolina wants unanimous support, but believes that \the organization woUld not .function with fewer than 15 members.\ At an introductory meeting on May 12, a vote was taken among the eleven ·organizations present. All eleven eKpressed an interest in the association. Three others which were not represented at the meeting later expressed interest. Foru·m Members Elected dellilquent. He says that \as soon as an account would develop a negative· balance, that group would be expelled from the Association until they got in the 6lack again. Everything would be COD.\ Ed Berndt, the st.eward of Phi Sigma Kappa, sees the ad- vantages that the FMA would offer to some Union organizations but feels that his fraternity stands to lose. He points out that Phi Sigma Kappa's cook has been with them for 19 years, and she has developed such a knowledge of the vendors that the house would lose more than they would gain by joining the FMA. By JOE_ MAGUIRE Fowieen of the eighteen seats on the 1981 ~2 Student Forum have been filled, but only four of them with experienced forwu representatives. In a runoff election last Thursday: - Karen Schick (509 votes, 65.5 percent) defeated Dave Wollin (266, 34.3) for the positi'on of Junior Trustee. - Gary Chadick ( 422, 53.5) defeated Bill DiConza (367, 46.5) for the position of Vice- President of Administration. - Pete McCaffery ( 447, 62.2) defeated Barton Levine (272, 37 .8) Jor the position of Vice- President of Finance. - llene Landress (165, 27.0), Steve Larsen (~59, 26.i), and John Scotto _(130, 21.3) won forum seats as junior representatives. Others receiving votes in this runoff were Duncan MacKenzie (122, 20.0) and James Hoffman (34, 5.6). -Gary Lehr (155, 24.7}, Jared Squires (125, 19.9) and Win Thurlow (119, 18.9) won forwn seats as sophomore~- repre.sentatives. Others receiving votes were Caryn Opengart (115, 18.3) and Nia Cholakis {114, 18.1). The position of president (Weldon Turner) and the positions of senior represen- tative (Joseph Lauren, Kim Nogay, and Bob Pavacia) were decided outright in the election of Tuesday, May 12. The four.remaining seats will not be filled until next year. Two freshmen representatives will be elected in winter of 1981, and Academic Affairs CouricH (AAC) and Inter-Fraternity Council (IFC) representativew will be appointed early neltt year. - . Student Trustee Will Lloyd is the only member of this year's forum who did not have to run for . re...election. Lloyd is guaranteed a seat next year because Student Trustees serve for two years. -. Lloyd feels that the forum may find itself \in trouble this year due to a lack of carry- overs from last year.\ He also feels thatthose students who did sit on this year's forum may not have gained as much from the experience as they could have. He said that this lack of ex- perience is caused by \the fact that things didn't get moving. this year, so that those who do carry over have not seen an active, well-functioning forum.\ Gary Chadick is one of the \carry-overs\ moving from the position of sophomore representative to Vice- President of Administration. Lehr, a freshman represen- tative this year, and TUrner, a junior representative this year, / ., .. ':~ c.i.;: .,.. ·.:.,· <\. -- .. Karen Schick was elected to serve as l)Tuaem trustee, one of the most prestigi.ous ;positions in ~tuaent gover.'lmcnt, r - are the others. Chadick thinks the problem \would be serious,\ and advised that the new members of the forum read ''procedural documents\ relating to the Student Forwn's responsibilities. The documents, which can be found in the Student Activities Office, will be helpful in acquainting new members to forum procedure, according· to Chadick. The forum's new president, Weldon Turner, hopes that that won't be necessary. He feels that he has worked out a plan, including summer mailings to forum members, . which will ease the transition from this year to next. Continued on page 2 The Assistant Dean is quick to emphasize that he will only do a certain amount of work to create the FMA. He is not ma·king membership man- datory, and if the organization does get started, he will only remain involved in an advisory capa(!ity.. T,ne organization will be \opera;ted managed and controlled completely by Union students.\ Union College will provide oookkeeping services forfree, if the board of the FMA asks for it. Including co-ops, sororities, and fraternities, there are 18 organizations which qualify for membership in the FMA. Andolina sees no reason why any fraternity cooks would need to break the ties with their vendors in order to join the FMA. Furthermore, he feels that having the association located in Schenectady would be more advantageous to the Union fraternities. Beside the geographic considerations, Andolina contends that the RFMA has had \some unhappy relationships\ With some Union fraternities. Andolina believes that his . FMA project offers an alternative which can eliminate this problem. Andolina's office expects to receive responses to invitations to join the association tomorrow. ·Weekend Exallls Eli~ninated By JOEY BECKERMAN and JOE MAGUIRE Vice President of Academic- Affairs, Thomas D'Andrea, announced in a May 15 letter to the faculty that the registrar's office has developed a new final examinations schedule. The new format, implemented at his request, will avoid holding any exams on Saturday, as well as Sunday. D'Andrea; with President Morris, called upon Registrar Calvin Schmidt to develop an examination schedule that, according to the letter, \eliminates conflicts between examinations and religious observances for a substantial portion of our community.\ The schedule, the Vice President writes, may result in \modest inconvenience for a few cases\. Thirteen students are hit hardest by the modest inconvenience, in that they will have three exams in one day. Associate Dean of Faculty Alan Nelson told Concordiensis Tuesday that each of those thirteen students can appeal to his office to make ·different arrangements. If none of the student's professors are willing to give the . student a re- exammation at another time, Nelson says that his offi~e ''might have to lean a little (on the professor).\ Tripling of exams became necessary only after realizing that exam week could not be extended to Thursday, bee~ use there are two deadlines that can: not be extended. The first is the due date for grades, and the second is the deadline for material to be sent to the printer that handles the programs, diplon}as, etc. for graduation. . D'Andrea expressed his conviction that the new schedule accomodates everyone as well as possible. No Saturday exams also insures at least three days of last minute preparation for every student. Another proposed solution was to allow students to s~hedule their own exams. Althollgh the faculty was . receptive to the suggestion, the student body was not. Dr. D'Andrea feels the initiative for this system must come from the students, because an honor system would have to be in effect for the exam period. D'Andrea has comniented that this system might be instituted in the future, but for now, student rejection of the idea makes it an undesirable alternative. Nelson is supportive of the new schedule, but is afraid that his offir'e may be overrun with schedule appeals. He regrets that he will only be able to alter the schedules of the thirteen students who have three exams in one day. Appeals of final examination· schedules shoo:d be registered with bean Alan Nelson's of.fice in the Science and Engineering Center.

Page2 OONOOBDIJiJNBIB, May 11, 1981 ·Peace Corps Term Described: Wittet Informs By NAOMI BLANK Scott Wittet, a 1977 Union College graduate, recently returned from Nepal where he was stati~med as a member .of the Peace Corps. On May 1, Scott spoke in response to a request by the Placement Office. Approximately 20 Union undergraduates interested in the two-year program attended the informal m~eting. As an English major, Scott applied for a job in the program in which his skills would .be appropriate. He was assignedto teach English as a foreign language (TEFL). He and eleven other Peace Corps representatives flew to Nepal after an intense· three-week training in the Nepali language and customs. At the conclusion of this training, each person makes a verbal commitment to complete the twD -year program. \The rewards,\ Scott ex- plained, ''begin with gaining a broader perspective in an en- tirely different world. You learn a lot. The learning is in- trinsically good and you become more adept at under.standing other cultures.'' Self-confidence in similar situations a$ well as in general applications are additional gains from the program. Working in the schools was a frustrating experience for Scott, therefore his ex- pectations had to change. He soon was able tq \get satisfaction from smaller things.\ \If you go there with the idea you will change the world, you Will get slapped in the face,\ Scott explained to the students. Learning to be broadminded about beliefs and understanding their origins made Scott realize that, \people aren't very different and are motivated by the same things.\ Scott was at ease with the students, joking about different ' customs and _ embarrassing situations as ari outsider. Many of -the students were concerned with the two-year commitment and asked about its per- manancy. Out of the twelve persons with whom Scott traveled for the two years, only four retw~ned With him at the completion of the term. Due to sickness, the realization that it was just too difficult and family trouble at home, seven returned prior to the term's end. Scott emphasiZed that during training you are promising \to do your best\ to complete the commitment, but should you choose to leave, you may. Due to the st~tus that women have in _ many third world nations, Scott said that it was \much harder for women to adapt to their (the nation's) standards.\ It might be in- teresting to note that almost all of the students present at the meeting were female. \We (Americans) are isolated and need to be exposed to a lot more. We tend to live for the future and choose to remain productive, whereas the people in Nepal live for and try to enjoy the present.\ Scott felt it was_ this hurried aspect of American life that was most difficult to adapt to. Scott, after attending two terms abroad at Union, chose to \Uve in a culture and un- derstand it. I wanted to ex- perience it, and have time for myself.\ He was not there in an official capacity, yet he hoped to \raise the consciousness about the Peace Corps and inform people who might be interested.'' Scott referred those students who wish to join to Professor Thomas for additional in- formation. He stressed that applicants should \continue to show interest and follow-up with the Washington office.\ Scott Wittet spea'ks informally with Union students about his Peace Corps term in Nepal. The Form of the Forum ' Continued from page 2 Karen Schick, the new Student Trustee, feels that the high turn-around .of forum representativ.es will damage neither her performance as trustee nor the forum'.s execution of its duties. All the new faces, she says, will \add a certain amount to the creativity\ of the forum. Creative or not, the Student Forwn has a job to do next year, and Ed Lonergan sees a need for a change if the· job is to be done correctly. Lonergan is the graduating Student Trustee, and he .cannot stress enough that the forum needs \someone who has been there before as a quieting influen.ce.'' Earlier this week Lonergan told Condordiensis about both the recent history of, and next year's outlook for, the forum. \This year,\ he said, \it hurt that there weren't people who knew the files perfectly . . . we didn't even get the by-laws completed, they are supposed to be the first thing done.\ He agrees with Uoyd in that this Student Trustee Will Lloyd is hopeful that enthusiasm will compensate for lack of experience among members of next year_'s Student Forum. year's forum may not have provided adequate experience for the returning members. Throughtout this year, Lonergan maintains, the forum \never had an agenda, never voted on meeting minutes- never once. They (the forum members) haven't seen good arliamentary procedure.\ Considering the recent preoccupation with revamping student government and the problems with President Bonner before that, Lonergan muses that \The Stude11t Forwn hasn't seen a year of normalcy since 1977!' Maybe next year will be different. Iron Works to be discussed in N ott: Symposium Scheduled Student Chosen With the rapid development of cast and wrought iron technology in the 19th Century, the architect, engineer, and builder was able to supplement wood, stone, and concrete, the materials of construction, with a material which enabled them to design and build light, ef- ficient, fireproof, and durable structures. The methods developed in the 19th Century led naturally into the era of steel which dates from the 1860's. This Symposiwn is being presented to tell the story of the age of iron by looking at the structures of that era, a large number of which are still functional and in the eyes of many, still beautiful today over one hundred years after their construction. · Emphasis on Cast Iron Building Fronts of America\; Charles Peterson, Architectural Historian, whose talk is entitled \Building With Wrought and Cast Iron\; John Kacharian, Historian and Deputy Director of Facilities Engineering, will talk on ''The Watervliet Arsenal Iron Building\; William- Chamberlin, Bridge Historian and Engineer with the N.Y.S. DOT, will talk on \The Iron Bridges of New York and Their Builders.\ Following these four ( 4) afternoon pr~sentations, a dinner will be held on the Union Campus with an after-dinner presentation by John Mesick, Architect, entitled \The Nott Memorial; Past, Present, and Future.\ All presentations will be held on Wednesday, May 27, 1981, on the Union grounds in the ·Nott Memorial, a fine example of an 1870 cast and wrought ir()n structure. The afternoon session commences at 2:00p.m. followed by a dinner at 5:00 p.m. The keynote presentation commences at 7:00p.m. Susan :McGovern, a sophomore psychology major, has been chosen to spend her junior year at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland. McGovern is a 1979 gi\aduate of Harrison High School. McGovern's selection as the 1981-82 St. Andrews exchange student was announced by Harry Marten, English Department chairtnan. McGovern, who has been active in the Women's Network at Union, will study history, philosophy, and English or anthropology at St. Andrews. She applied for the scholarship, she said, because she felt a year at St. Andrews would provide •'an opportunity to grow in- tellectually and emotionally.\ The St. Andrews .Exchange, begun at Union in 1937, is a You are cordially invited to attend a Baker Lecture Series Presentation Iron Works A Symposium on the Development & use of cast & wrought iron in 19th century structures May 27, 1981 · 2-9p.m. Nott Memorial on the grounds of Union College Schenectady,.N.Y. reciprocal exchange program for students and faculty \ members with the University of St. Andrews, Scotland's oldest university. College sophomores with a B or better average are encouraged to apply for the program, which includes a full scholarship. A,DDITIONAL STUDY SPACES FOR FINALS WEEK June 6-9 First Floor Classrooms-- Humanities Building (except 110) 9 a.m.-11 p.m. First Floor Classrooms-- SociaJ Science Building, 9 a.m.-11 p.m. The participants in the Symposium will be Margot Gayle, President of The Friends of Cast Iron, whose talk is en- titled ''Cast Iron; The Material and Its Early Use With Special Amateur Night at the Dutch Hollow Pub Looking for varied entertainment. Skits, dancers·, iugglers, singers wahted. Call Sharon at 370-6051 for auditions. Prizes Presented 'Specials Come in and see your friends perform Tuesday, May 26, 10 pm-? · -464 State St. ~deliver This Symposium is a part .of the Baker Lecture Series on \The Architectural Heritage of Union College.\ The public is invited free of charge. Reservations are required for the dinner. Schenectady 374-1888. Rock to Reggae with The Ulstrafarians at the Alpha Delta Phi Porch Party 4: 00 p.m.; Friday, May 22 -All the beer you can drink .-A \Knock Your-socks Off\ punch -COME AND ENJOY!.::... ·til 'tl ... ttl .c u ~ Ill 'i: ttl .c u >.. .0 0 .... 0 .c Q. Ex~ ,..;;i;;.i'i A B Eigl D'A:nc as sun: Presi< Heca exper: of Fa< in backg psych teacni cours D'An< the d only alrea Uuiol1 of con show. Vic takes \ thesh empt; Presic fill th the n1 jobh~ interi~ recen1 HOUSE famil' found tegra comn The attern of tt teristi trem~ Ours and acadE has a fee lin will c as he He r cordi mattE to the time feelill cares Thi inter1 co

OONOORDIENSIS. Ma;y B1. 1981 Pages features Exclusive Interview: . . . -- . . l Administrator, Teacher, Drummer iX By PAUL GROSSMAN Eight months ago, Thomas J. D'Andrea came here to Union to ass!liile the position of V:ice President of Academic Affairs. He came to us with eight years e1tperience as Provost and Dean of Faculty of Haverford College in Pennsylvania. His background is in the field of psychology and he is presently teaching the psycholoinguistics course offered here. Dr. D'Andfea also has a .passion for the drwns that is approached only by his talent. He has already performed for the Union community in a number of concerts and even a nightclub show .. Vice President D'Andrea takes his job seriously. Some of D'Andrea, you hold the position of Vice President of Academic Affairs. This being an academic institution, yours can be con- sidered the second most im- portant job on campus behind that of the President. You've been \here now for eight months, nearly a full academic year, can you say that your job has been what you expected? D'Andrea: Well, !think that it has been more than I expected. I knew that U would be a lot of work, but my calendar is more crowded than I would Uke it to' be. That is really a ·result of me trying to familiarize myself with as much of the institution as possible. The job has really exceeded my expectations on two levels in particular. One is the faculty. I feel that now I \There is a lack of serenity tQ the job\ on committees. Now that this- term I'm teaching, I've been able to get a better sense of the few students that I see regularly. They perform, and I am impressed with their academic ability on that level. C.: Will you continue to teach a course occasionally? D'A: As often as I can. Once a year at least, I hope. C: You. came here to Union after being Provost and Dean of Faculty at Haverford College in Pennsylvania. Seeing as how Union runs on what is basically a vice president system and Haverford runs on the dean system, can you briefly outline the differences as you perceive them to be in the context of your job? the shelves in his office are still empty, not · that the Vice President is lacking in books to fill them with, but rather that the numerous priorities of the job have taken precedence over interior decorating. He has also recently moved into Whitaker House (behind South) with his family and the D'Andreas have found themselves well in- tegrated into the campus have .a good sense of who they are. After having gone through the evaluation process this year, I am really impressed with the amount and quality of professionalism exhibited by the faculty.-on the student side, I have had experience with a few students that happen to be D' A: The athletics depart- ment did not report to me there. as it does here. I think that makes an important statement, that the athletic department answers ultimately to the Vice President of Academic Affairs. That says a lot about where the school places something like athletics in the overall scheme oftbings. It says that all aspects of the school contribute to the overall intellectual and academic growth of the student. At Haverford we also didn't have tlie graduate program or the corltinuing education, and there of course, everything was just smaller, smaller in size. Vice President 0' Andr:ea waits to get behind the drums at Cabaret ... co:rmimnity. , · The interview that follows attempts to bring to light many of the interesting charac- teristics of a man who has a tremendous influence on Union. Ours is an academic institution and it is he who .. oversees academic affairs. Dr. D'Andrea has already developed a strong feeling for Union; he has and will continue to learn as much as he can about the institution. He meets weekly with ConG cordiensis to discuss any matters that may be of concern to the students and also uses the time to determine student feeling on a particUlar issue. He cares. This is the first of a two part interview. CONCORDIENSIS: Dr. ... Sut finds himself more often than not behind his desk and paperwork. Here you just have more in sheer volume. The other big difference of this job is the involvement of the state. It is much more complex here in New York and reaches much farth~r into the private sector. At Haverford, the Provost also administered faculty housing; it was bad enough having to worry about salaries and promotions without having to worry about whose plumbing didn't work. I'm pleased to get rid of that. C: When President Morris was asked this question, he called it \leading\ but, what is it about your job that you like least, most and would like to change? D'A: What I enjoy most about the job is recruitment. You get to meet new, interesting people and that's the way that I think you can have the most direct and lasting influence. There are several ways that one can in- DO YOU WANT TO FLY? Face it .. you've always wanted to fly! Hany of us have had the feeling .. and for some it has never gone away • If you have that feeling, then youire in luck. The Air Force ROTC Detach- ment at RPI has two navigator slots available right now for Union sophomores. You may even be qualified for a full scholarship. This is all reserved for cadets who want.to get their life off the gnJund .. with Air Force silver navigator wings. Our two navigator slots won't last long and the application period is ending- So check it out today! Visit or call: Capt Doug Kewer RPI Armory, ~n 317 Tel: 270-6236 Gateway to a great way of life. fluence an institution. You can come up with some bold new innovative idea, and that usually gets a lot of press coverage. I'm basi-cally a traditionalist when it comes to education. I'm not out there looking for new innovations. There are a lot of problems to worry about now in higher education without spending aU of your time trying to come up with a new innovation. I find it interesting and a lot of fun to do the faculty evaluations, that's where you find out how really good most of them are, but actually having to make decisions and judgements based on the evaluations I find to be the hardest pati of the job. The smallness of a small college can also be a liability. It's nice to get to know the facu1ty and to feel that you will continue to get to know the faculty, but on the other hand, you have to make judgements about them. You're deciding on their raises, or whether or not they're going to be here. You're just not in- sulated; your kids play with their kids. I think that's the hardest part of the job. C: And what would you like to change? D'A: Well, what I would like to change is probably a change that would have to be made in my own nature as well as in the nature of the job. The change would be to figure out some way, in a job like this, to have ample time to reflect on things, do more reading, keep up on what's going on in higher education, have more time to prepare papers on policy direction and that sort of thing. If I had more time to do that, instead of rushing off to this committee or answering that phone call.· Part of that you do have in your own control. There are some people who simply reserve parts of their week when under no circwnstances will they do anything but the job at hand. I'm not like that, but there are many times when I wish I had more time to look at this issue or examine that question. There simply are times though when you have to Continued on page 11

Page 4 OONOORDIENSIS, M.Q/!1 B1, 1981 ~rts & Culture Play ... Directing: A Committment KOOL·JAZZFES'i'i\7 .AL NEW YORK (formerly Newport Jazz Festival) In saratoga Thiss-wnmerl ~turday, July 4, Sunday, July 5 By GLENNS. KRUTOFF A director's job, in the words of Professor Barry Smith is \to fit it (the play) together as a sustained; coherent, logical experience, so that the audience does not go off bewildered. They may not understand it, but they cannot deny the commitment.\ Commitment, according to Smith, is a vital factor in the direction of a play. This term, the students of the \Directing I\ class-Demetra Pontisakos, Andy Levine, Bambi Schlauch, and Michael Zelvin-will each direct a one- act play. Pontisakos will direct N. F. Simpson's \The Hole,\ an absurd play. The action of the play centers around an open manhole. The characters pass by and see personal visions in the hold. They see an aquarium, sports events, wars, capital punishment and cathedrals. At the end of the play, a workman comes out and shows them what is really in the hold: a junction box and some cables. The work- man destroys their beliefs. He destroys the pious way they feel about the hold. The play can be seen as a comment on religion and-or perception. The play will be pr.esented on May 29 and 30, in the Nott Memorial. These performances are free and open to the campus community. Michael Zelvin is directing Edward Albee's \The Zoo Story.\ This work deals with two characters, Jerry and Peter, who meet on a park bench in Central Park on a sunny Sunday afternoon. The action of the play continues th:rough conversation and conflict. According to Zelvin; \the play is about man's reduction to animal.\ \The play,\ he says, \is blatantly violent and has something in it for everyone.\ Jerry will be played by Rich Dubs and Peter, by Dave Fox. A date has not yet been set for the performance. \The Bald Soprano,\ an absurd play by Eugene Ionesco, will be directed by Bambi Schlauch. This play has no plot. The action occurs in the home of the Smith's who are awaiting the arrival of the Martin's. The central theme of the play is ''the breakdown of language, and the alienation of people through the lack of communication. The basic premise of the .pl(ly,\ says Schlauch, \is that assmned knowledge cannot be assumed. As emotion intensifies, language breaks down to a battle of syllables, vowels and consonants.\ The cast includes: Torn Farrell, Melissa Gold, Donna Creely, Steve Auerbach, and Judybeth Greene~ It will be presented on May 29 and 30 in the Cabaret room on a ,double bill with Andy Levine's production of Tennessee Williams \This Property Is Condemned,\ with Robin Scott and Dave Blakelock. Both are open to the campus. To prepare for this seemingly overwhelming task, Barry Smith requires the class to keep a director's book. This book contains the text of the play, all stage direction and other staging and technical notes. They must fully research the playwright and the social climate of the time the play was written. \The director must look at the play as a foreign culture. It takes an immersion of the director to enter the Ini1r(} of the playwright and to un- derstand it.\ Smith added, \the director is a re-creator, not a creator.\ The director must also research the themes of the play and must read what critics have written about it. They must cast, block and guide their actors through the whole process. Smith occasionally attends rehearsals, giving his opinions and ideas to the directors. Demetra Pontisakos said of Smith, \He irons out a lot of problems, gives me ideas and suggestions. He taps your senses and then lets you go to explore. He's really en- thusiastic. When you come up with an idea, he gets excited. It's nice to work with someone who is interested in what you're doing.\ She added, \He works At The Coll~g e Bookstore hard-with you and for you ... He really cares . . . He's com- mitted.\ Commitment, then is the key. The directors and their mentor are dedicated to ·their projects and their craft. Hard work, perserverance · and com- mitment are essential. The festival's weekend' at the Saratoga Performing Arts Center will offer fans an exciting innovation: an additional stage of music with artists performing simultaneously with those on the main .stage~ . Herb Chesbrough, Executive Director of S.P.A;C;, com- mented, \We are particularly excited about the return of the KOOL Jazz Festival New York to Saratoga Springs thiS sum- mer. Over the past three years, the audience response has been overwhelnting. With the addition of a . second stage and the diversity of the programming, this year's twcr.day Festival will be the best yet.\ Photo Corner This week's photo is by Adam Licht: untitled. It was shot with a Diana Camera which. is a toy camera that Adam is currently experimenting with as part of an .independent study project in photography this term .. When the sun goes down, Domino's Pizza gets busy preparing the most convenient fast food you can get.. Just pick up your phone, dial the number, and a Domino's pizza is only 30 minutes away. that's ail it takes,·· and we never charge for delivery. Our drivers carry less than $10.00; Tasty, Quick and Hot Pizza \ I l 'I bre fou aft4 rec wa: be< alb $8.! ins Pe1 is pri Wa F thi: we de] Da wa alt fol lik pe4 bel Da aU an' It an HE \' IDl ., WI:: co

\ I I I I I I I I •• I I I I I I I OONOORDIENSIS, Ma,y S1, 1981 P~ge 5 ~rts & Culture ~ Petty Delivers: .Hard Promises By MATTCOBEN Tom Petty and the Heart- breakers have released their fourth album, Hard Promises, after another dispute with their record company. The album was held up for over a month because Petty wanted the album to sell at the price of $8.98, while the record company insisted on a $9;98 list price. Petty succeeded, and the album is now available at the lower price~ with its first single, \The Waiting,\ soaring upthe charts. I .Waiting,\ already at the top of jJle charts; \Nightwatchman\ is much like the classic Petty rocker \Breakdown\ from the first album. There are also the mellow, ballad songs such as \Woman in Love,'·' and \You Can Still Change Your Mind.\ The band's style really hasn't changed much, which is definitely a plus, but most the songs are concerned with love of one kind or another as they were on Damn the Torpedoes. GirL'' The music is melodious rock and roll With a tough, rhythmic bite to it, and Petty's raspy voice locks it all together. The days when one could see The Heartbreakers in bars and small clubs are over. They are much too popular to do that anymore, a fact which will be apparent if the band tours this summer. If you like good rock and roH, pick up some Tom Petty, Hard Promises is just that. It may be \just the or'\ dinary noise,'' but coming from Tom Petty and the Heart- breakers, why would you want anything else? Dance at Union This Summer! Classes in beginning and intermediate ballet and modern dance will be held at Union College this summer. Modern dance classes will meet Tuesdays and Thursdays beginning June 16, and ballet in- struction_will be held Mond~ys and Wednesdays beginning June 29. Union will also offer a program entitled \Creative Movement for Children,\ beginning June 16, for youngsters ages 5 to 8. For more information on the dar~ce programs, contact the Union College office of Graduate and Continuing Studies at 370-6288. From a musical point of view this ~ew albwn may be very well titled. Hard Promises delivers on a promise to follow Damn the Torpedoes, which was .Q..ne of the best selling albums of 1980. 'I)le albwn follows up so well that it seems like a continuation of the Tor- pedoes album; it could have been sides three and four of a Damn the Torpedoes double album. This is not to take anything away from the album. It is a very stron~ guitar, rock and roll album: typical .,Hea~tbreaker music, good mUSIC. At the beginning -of the song ''Even the Losers\ on the Torpedoes album, we hear a girl's voice saying \It's just the ordinary noise,\ and that's just what we hear on Hard Promises. In this case,. it happens to work.· Often bands try to follow up a hit album with something that is strikingly different, and often it ends up in the cut-out racks. Petty and his Heartbreakers have stuck to their rock and roll tradition. The band's first album yielded the two hits \Breakdown\ and \American Girl.\ The second, You're Gonna Get It!, yielded For the People of Kampuchea . The album is full of hits that will in all likelihood fill the radio waves this summer. Side one contains the single, \The · \Listen to her Heart.\ Since then, Torpedoes has rockete.d the Heartbreakers into national prominence with hits like \Refugee \Don't Do Me Like That\ and \Here Comes My By RICH BlEGEN From the Atlantic Label, we receive the \Concerts for the People of Kampuchia\ LP; The album features live concert recordings of the Who, Pretenders, Elvis Costello, Rockpile (with and without Robert Plant), Queen, Ian Drury, the Clash, Specials, Paul McCartney and Wings, and a \Rockestra\ comprised of most of the above groups, all in all a veritable Who's Who of the British rock scene. These concerts took place over .a series of four nights in December of 1979, with the proceeds going to the people of Kampuchea {whose tragic plight is depicted on the inner album cover). Without going into superlatives to describe the benefit, the album falls short of expectations. First of all, the production of the album is yery THE UNTOLD STORY OF THE MAN BEHIND THE MASK AND THE LEGEND BE-HIND THE MAN. LORD GRADE and JACK WRATHER Present A MARTINSTARGER Production ~~THE LEGEND OF THE LONE RANGER\ Starring KLINTON SPILSBURY MICHAEL HORSE CHRISTOPHER LLOYD and JASON ROBARDS as PRESIDENT ULYSSESS. GRANT Executive Producer MARTIN STARCER Screenplay by IVAN GOFF & BEN ROBERTS and MICHAEL KANE and WILLIAM ROBERTS Adaptation by JERRYDERLOSHON Original Music by JOHN BARRY Director of Photography LASZLO KOVACS, A.S.C. Produced by WALTER COBLENZ Directed by WILLIAM A. FRAKER DISTRIBUTED sv UNIVERSAL PICTURES AND ASSOCIATED FILM DISTRIBUTION coRPORATJos \'The Man in the Mask\ Sung.by MERLE HAGGARD PANAvrsroN\ ©ITC/Wrother Production&l98l Original Soundtrack Available on MCA Records . ©1981 UNIVERSAL CITY STUDIOS. INC STARTS FRIDAY MAY 22ND AT SPECIALLY SELECTED THEATRES ' poor, especially for an album sixteen months in the making. One must remember that the album was decided upon before the concerts, and the taping occurred with the album In mind. Also, the selection of album space is ridiculous. The Who, and McCartney, take up two full sides while the other eight groups are jammed onto the other two sides. Finally, the choice of songs is equally poor. For instance, on the entire side of Who music {just four so11gs ), only one song, \Sister Disco,\ is not available as a live version on other albwns. The music is much better. Side one, the Who side, is filled with the usual high-energy and charisma that makes the Who one of the top live and studio artists in the world today. Ditto the three Pretenders' songs at the top of side two. But then ,comes a 130 second excuse for an Elvis Costello song, entitled \The Imposter\. This abuse of talent is followed by two Rock- pile songs, of which the second, \Little Sisters\ is a soQg by Robert Plant (late of Led Zepplin). It is a pity that one cannot hear more from this interesting, albeit talented, combination. Side three features four of the most popular groups of the last few years. On the Queen song, \Now I'm Here'', we have the only evidence of audience participation on the album. Then the Clash do a very powerful rendition of \Armegeddon Time''. Ian Drury and the Blockheads follow with their smash hit, ''Hit Me With Your Rhythm Stick\ ·which features some excellent jamming on t:11e horns. The best side on the album closes with The Specials and their \Monkey Man.\ Side four is McCartney's side, and it proves two things. First, P~ ul is everything John Lennon made him out to be. The other is that McCartney is a first class live act, and he does rock, particularly on \Coming Up\. Such a shame that McCartney shares the stage with so much talent in the Rockestra. only to dominate it. 'The listener ac- tually hears Paul McCartney and the greatest back-up band in the world. This is a fitting end for an album which could have been great but ends up merely very good. Thls becomes clear when compared to the only other work of this kind, \Bangladesh''. The final cut on K.ampuchia, \Rockestra Theme\ contains only two lines, \1 have not bad any dinner\ and \Happy New Year\. A tasteless tribute to the people of Kampuchia. If only George bad •

Page 6 · OONOOBD11i1NSIS~ May IJ1~ 1.981 Edito1·ial: We Are All c·o·mmitted to the New Forum The booths have been brought back to the Board of Elections and the Election Committe.e· is trying to catch up on their work. The Student Forum elections are practically fClrgotten. Or a.re they? The results of the elections cannot be- easily dismissed because we have committed ourselves a.nd the in· divid.Uals elected. There is no tumin.g back. We have given a small numb~r of students the power,- and our approval to make decisions that influence every aspect of our lives here at Union. The effect is more direct when we interact with the Student Forum on an individual basis. To give one example, many go before Student Forum with budget requests each ·year~ Since they are now our representatives for the next school year, we must be able to work with them, a.nd help them accomplish what is in the best interest of the , campus community. One way'· in which the students elected can begin, is to tr:y to preserve the integrity of the campaign. Campaign promises were made, ideas were presented and opinions were expressed. In many instances a student voted for a candidate on the basis of what was said about a particular topic. It would be a crime for a. Student Forum member to neglect the camp.aign promises and ideas that helped elect the student, just because it is '' ~fter the election'\'. In a school the size of ours, where everyone is familiar, not only by face but in many cases by name, it is essential for the student body mem- bers to feel that they can trust the student government. Starting a· term in office with a broken promise is not the way to fo-ster good feelings, and to build a sup.port base. We ask that the me·mbers of the Student Forum be sen- sitive to this, and con- sider their speeches of the past, as well as their actions of the future. More specifically, it is important for the in- dividual representatives, i.e. the Sophomore, Junior and Senior Representatives, to really understand the interests and motivations of their particular classes. Each class has it's problems and needs, unique to the year. These specific requirements are as important as the individuals themselves. The Forum members should keep this in mind when they discuss issues, and make decisions. Their responsiblllty to the constituents is not unlike that of the Senators and House Representatives, to their respective states. The students of the . campus must remember that the newly elected officials are students too. They are not paid to serve, and they are not given special con- sideration in ~Y man- ner. It is possible that· individuals might have disagreements with the Student Forum, and feel some of the Forum's decisions and approaches unfair :This is justified as long as it is understood · that the Forum is com- posed of people that are no different than the people it serves. This situation has Us ad- vantages and disad- vantages. The advantage is that the Forum members are our peers. As a result we can talk to them easily, in the most reasonable and productive manner. This aids the efficient operation of the student governmen.t. The disadvantage is that these peo,ple a:re students, just as we ate. They are not demi--gods and incapable of making mistakes. They can't do everything that everyone wants them to do all the time. This is impossible. All that can be asked of them is to do the best they can, and to give a:ll they have got, as they have promised. Once again, the question comes down to one of communication. The Student Forum is not ' an entity unto itself, but rather another organ in th-e student body. As such, there must be constant feedback bet- ween the students and the Forum. How can they intelligently decide for the campus when they have no idea of how the campus ·feels on a par· ticular issue. The cam_pus must speak to them. 'fhey, of course, must be available for - such discourse. The students elected last week are in office to serve, to serve you. Take advantage of their ser- vices and make your contribution to the well- being of the college. The Student Forum can't run properly without the input and support of the student body. Give it! Everybody w111 benefit. \We admit of no government by . . - .. Concordiensis is looking for p~ople interested in editorial positions of responsibility, in addition to st_aff. We need writers. typ~ists and photographers. Please contact Paul' or Rachel at 6155. divine right ... the only legitimate right f- · to govem is an express grant of power €on cor from the governed\ William Henry ~arrison , Inaugural Address March 4, 184 I Editors-in-Chief Paul Grossman, Rachel I. Mandel Julie Isgro Jeff Scardino Joe Maguire Naomi Blank. . Dan Booth, Judi Chervenak .Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos . . ·Managing Editor Business Editor· News Editor .Assistant News Editor · Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors CamptiS'\Page Editors Maria Manfredonia, Charis Richards Sports E\ditors . Women's Sports Editor Photo Editor Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Cory Lewkowicz Mindy Broser Steve'Lerner ~Snyder· Nevin Dubin, Cindy Tenner, Amelia Terhune Charis Richai'ds, Cindy Tenner Sports Photo Editor . Cartooni,st Staff I Photo staff CoNCORDIENSIS \is published every Thursday by the student .body o( Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York. 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter~ Subscdption rate·: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the. United States. · oncordiensb:l subsctibe~ to the College Press. Service (CPS). . - ---- Tbost DeaD mayJ IMP( courf cour~ alert three Ro..9n Ex811 build AB-.~ BH~l Bl.J-1 HU--: N-NI Fresl Libel La till Econ Eng I: Engl Hist<J Hist<J Histc Histc Fren Gern Rus~ span Span Span Phile Po lit Po lit Biolc Biolc Cher: Cher Matt Matt Phy~ Phyf Psyc Psyc E.L. E.L. Se; Se E.S~ C.E. M.E M.E Eco1 ECOI Hist~ 014 Phil Poli1 Poll' Poll' Soci Soci Am« Cult Mat Psy1 E.S. C.E C.E E.E App C.S. Fre: Art Mm Cl~ WOI Eco En~ En~ En~ His1 His1 His1 Rus Phi Soc Bio: Bio: ChE Sl S1 s, Ma1 Ma1 Ph3 Sci• Ph~ Ps~ Ps~ E.S C.E E.E

Page 6 OONOORDIENSlSJ May 11) 1981 Editorial: We Are All Committed to the New Forum The booths have been brought back to the Board of Elections and the Election Committee is trying to catch up on their work. The Student Forum elections are practically forgotte:n. Or are they? The resuJ.ts of the elections cannot be easily dismissed because we have committed ourselves and the in- dividuals elected. There is no turning back. We have given a small number of students the power, and our approval to make decisions that influence every aspect of our lives here at Union. The effect is more direct when we interact with the Student Forum on an individual basis. To give one example, many go before Student Forum with budget requests each year~ Since they are now our representatives for the next school year, we must be able to work with them, and help them accomplish what is in the best interest of the campus community. One way· in which the students elected can begin, is to try to preserve the integrity of the campaign. Campaign promises were made, ideas were presented and opinions were expressed. In many instances a student voted for a candidate on the basis of what was said about a particular topic. It would be a crime for a Student Forum member to neglect the campaign promises and ideas that helped elect the student, just because it is ''after the election\. In a school the size of ours, where everyone is familiar, not only by face but in many cases by name, it is essential for the student body mem- bers to feel that they can trust the student government. Starting a term in office with a broken promise is not the way to foster good feelings, and to build a support base. We ask that the members of the Student Forum be sen· sitive to this, and con- sider their speeches of the past, as well as their actions of the future. More specifically, it is important for the in- dividual representatives, i.e. the Sophomore, Junior and Senior Representatives, to really understand the interests and motivations of their particular classes. Each class has it's problems and needs, unique to the year. These specific requirements are as important as the individuals themselves. The Forum members should keep this in mind when they discuss issues, and make decisions. Their responsibility to the constituents is not unlike that of the Senators and House Representatives, to their respective states. The students of the campus must remember that the newly elected officials are students too. They are not paid to serve, and they are not given special con- sideration in any man- ner. It is possible that individuals might have disagreements with the Student Forum, and feel some of the Forum's decisions and approaches unfair.-This is justified as long as it is understood that the Forum is com- posed of people that are no different than the people it serves. This situation has its ad- vantages and disad· vantages. The advantage is that the Forum members are our peers. As a result we can talk to them easily, in the most reasonable and productive manner. This aids the efficient operation of the student government. The disadvantage is that these people are students, just as we are. They are not demi-gods and incapable of making mistakes. They can't do everything that everyon.e wants them to do all th.e time. This is impossible. All that can be asked of them is to do the best they can, and to give all they have got, as they have promised. Once again, the question comes down to one of communication. The Student Forum is not an entity unto itself, but rather another organ in the student body. As such, there must be constant feedback bet- ween the students and the Forum. How can they intelligently decide for the campus when they have no idea of how the campus feels on a par- ticular issue. The campus must speak to them. tpley, of course, must be available for such discourse. The students elected last week are in office to serve, to serve you. Take advantage of their ser- vices and make your contribution to the well- being of the eollege. The Student Forum can't run properly without the input and support of the student body. Give it! Everybody will benefit. '~We admit of no government by divine right . . . the only legitimate right · to govern is an express grant of power from the governed\ William Henry Harrison Inaugural Address March 4, 1841 • I ·-' ·~ lndepen;d:fln'i Doy P·a;rty. ~- .' Concordiensis is looking for people interested in editorial positions of responsibility, in addition to st_aH. We need writers, typists and photographers. Please contact Paul or Rachel at 6155. Editors--in-Chief Managing Editor Business Editor- News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors Paul Grossman, Rachel I. Mandel Julie Isgro Jeff Scardino Joe Maguire Naomi Blank Dan Booth, Judi Chervenak Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Maria Manfredonia, Cl:laris Richards Sports Editors Women's Sports Editor Photo Editor Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Cory Lewkowicz Mindy Broser Steve Lerner Lisa Snyder Nevin Dubin, Cindy Tenner, Amelia Terhune Chari.s Richards, Cindy Tenner Sports Photo Editor Cartoonist Staff ; Photo Staff CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of\ Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. oncordiensls subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS). i Tbos• Dean may• IMP< cour~ cour! alert three Roon Exar bui:ld AB-, BH-: BU-: HU- N-N Fresl Libel Latir Econ Engl Engl Histc Histc Histc Histc Fren Gem Russ span Span Span Phil< Po lit Po lit Biolc Biolc Cher Cher Matl Matl Phyl Phyl Psyc Psyc E.L. E.L. Se Se E.S. C. E. M.E M.E EcoJ EcoJ Hist 014 Phil Poll Poll Poll Soci Soci Am a Cult Mat Psy, E.S. C.E C.E E.E App c.s. Fre Art Mm Cia: Wm Ecc En€ En€ En€ His' His· His· Rm Phi Soc Bio Bio ChE s~ s s Ma Ma Ph~ Sci~ Ph~ Psi Ps~ E.S C.E E.I

OONCOBDIJDNSIS., May 11., 1981 Page 'l Final- Examination Schedule Spring Term I9Bo-si Those students wllo ·have. three exams on one day can ~ppeal their schedules to Dean Nelson's office In the Science and Engineering Center. ONLY these s·tudents may registef an. appeal. All other exam ·schedules are final. ' IMPOR'l'i\,NT: This exam schedule is primarily for regular, \day\ mdergraduate cours~. ~ separate schedule for Graduate studies ~d Continuing Education courses will be announced, and students in \Section 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the. announcement -of the exam time for those courses. Those who have three (3) examinations in one day and wish to seek relief may see Dean Nelson, R0_9mS100,.Science.and Engineering Bldg. before June l, 1981. Ex811).inations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. - ~- · AB-Arts Building BH--Bailey Hall Bl.J-Butterfield Hall HU--Hwnanities Building OC-Old Chapel N--North Wing, Science-Engr. Center PY -P~:~ychology Laboratory SS..Social Sciences Building SH-8teinmetz Hall CH-Carnegte11all Monday, June 8- 8:30-10:30 a.m. Freshman Elective 24-Perspectives of the Modem Mind-Tharsing-88313 Liberal Learning 22-Sound and Music-Branch-Bli 207· Latin 12-Latin I.teading-Reece-:.HU 116 Econoli).ics 11--Elementary Economics, Sec. 2-Wiese-SS Ot2 English 27 -Comedy-Heinegg--BU 204 EngliSh 51-Chaucer.-Murphy .... HU 112 History 17-Crisis, Conflict and Compr.omise: America 1815-1877..-clinton,-PY 102~ History 26-Th~ United States inthe World Arena...Jonas-ss 112 History 52-Modern France: The Paris Commune to de Gaulle-Hansen-88 010 History 71 .... The Modem History of the Middle Eash-CH 205-.oBerk French ll .... Basic French II-McDermott-HU 115 Gemian 12-Basic German III--Mache-HU 117 Rus~ian t36-Readiilgs in Russian Literature-Jernakoff-HU 016 Spanish 12;,...Basic Spanish III-I~e-88014 . Spanish 131-Introduction to Spanish-American Literatute-Ginsberg-HU 110 Spanish lU-The Spanish Language in Practical Use 11-Ginsberg-HU 110 PhUosophy 21:....Symbolic Logic-Ludwig-HU 114 Political Science 12--Contell,lporary International Politics-GaU-SS 117 Political Science 47-Law and Public Policy-Board-88 115 Biology 153-Advanced Ecology-Tobiessen.:..BH.104 · Biology t54-Chordate Embryology-B. Boyer-BH 205 Chemistry 40-Quantitative Chemistry-Wemer-N 116 Chemistry 150-Physical Chemistry I-Anderson-BU 106 Mathematics 30-Qrdinary Differential Equations, Sec. 2-Pappas-BH 203 Mathematics 33-Abstract Algebra 11--Rosen-BH 108 Physics 44--.Introduction to AstronomyppTitus-BH 20t Physics t25-Modern Computing Methods in Physics--Reich-88 100 Psychology 10-AFirst Course in Psychology, Sec. 3-Lipton ... PY 113 Psychology 33-Cognitive Psychology-Greenberg-PY 213 E.L.L. 12-Homes, Buildings and Engineering Principles-Harlow--8H 110 E.L.L. 30-Dilemmas of Physical Resources Sec. 1-Ketcbum-HU 014. Sec. 2-:Manin~:au 019 , .. ... •T ,·• E.S~ 42-Electtif Circuits If...;(Jrmg--BU 109' C.E. 131:....Strilctural Steel-Rapant-BU 300 M.E. 40-Introduction to Engineering Design-Eisenstadt ... N222 M.E. 40-Introduction to Engineering Design--Ul1man-N210 Monday, June 8 ·11:15-1:15 p.m. Economics 146...;Economic and Business Forecasting-Kershner-ss 117 Economics t49-Contemporary Economic Issues-Kenney-88010 . . History 49-Contemporary Britain: World War II to the Present--Fmkelstem-ss 014 Philosophy 30-Greek Philosophy-Taylor-HU117 Political Science 21-Methods of Social Research-Huggins-BH207 Political Science 51-American Foreign Policy-Gati-SS115 Political Science 70-Civll Liberties-Daniels-88112 Sociology· 10-Int(oduction to Sociology, Sec .. 2~chneller-BH201 Sociology 6D--Methods of .Social Research-Hug~ms-BH207 . . . . American Studies 162-Advanced Theory Semmar+ SeJmotics and Ainertcan Culture-Nye-HUU6 • . Mathematics 127-Numerical Analy_sis-Reynolds-BH203 . . Psychology 3g.....1ntroduction to the Study of Sex Roles-Bntain-PY113 E.S. 11-Engineering Grapbics-Eisenstadt-N116. . C.E. 20-Land Measurements: Theory and Application-Male-BU109 C.E. 17tl-Design Project-Griggs;-BU106 . . . . . . . E.E.l52-Microprocessors and Microcomputers: Architecture, Programmmg and Applications-Gajjar...SH101 · . . . C.S. 40-Machine and Assembly .Language., Sec.t & 2-Williams-BU204 Tuesday, June 9 • 8:30..10:30 a.m. Freshman Elective 4&-The Last Wilderness: The Hwnan Mind-Huntley-PY213 Art 51-Modem Architecture D: The 20th Century-Rohrer-AB104 Music 1&-Introduction to Music-Wilson-AB202 . . . Classics 42-8pecial Topics in Classics: The Archaeologtcal Renuuns of the Roman World-Ketterer-CH205 . Economics tO-Elementary Economics, Sec. 3-Klem-SSot2 English 40-Literature of the Bible-SS016-Freund English 47-Contemporary Drama-Ullmann-HU112 English 56-shakespeare after 1600-Murphy-HU115 History 42-Late Medieval and Renaissance ~~ope-Allen-88117 History 82-The Development of Mode~ Medicme-Dawson-~019 History 117-The American Economy smce the New Deal-Fmkelstein-8Sl15 Russian t2-Basic Russian III-Jemakoff-HU116 Philosophy 140-Epistemology-K~insky-HU014 . Sociology to-Introduction to Soe~olo~, Sec. 1-Huggms-SS112 Biology 158-Plant Morphology-Frohlich-N116 Biology 168-Cenular Neurophysiol~gy-Lambert-BH201 Chemistry 12-Fundamental CheiDlStry II Sec. t-8chaefer-BU204 Sec. 2-Hull-BU204 _ Sec. 3-Hull-BU204 . . . . . H2 5 Mathematics 21-Mat}lemat.!cal Meth~s for ~he Social Sc1ences II-Rosen-B 0 Mathematics t34-Differentlal Equatlons:-Seiken-~H102 . . • . Physics u-rntroduction to Physics I (B1ology, Sctence, Hmnanttles and Social Science Majors)-Newman-BH207 . Physics 142-Application of Quant~ MechanlCs~Peak-8H219 Psychology 24-Social Psychology-Lipton-PY102 . Psychology 70..Seminar in Cognitive Psychology-Greenberg-PY204 E.S. 20-Mechanics II-Panlili~H~10 _ . · .. c E 153-Environmental Engmeermg II:....Snow-BU300 E·.E·. 33-AnalysiS and Design of Electronic Circuits-Ch~g-BU109 Tuesday, June 9-11: l5-l:l5p.m. Italian 10-Basic Italian, Sec. 1 & 2-Dellario-HU112 Sociology 134-Sociology of Mental Health-Morrisey-:-88113 Sociology 158-Aging in America-Melick-88112 Mathematics 14-Calculus III Sec. 1-8eiken-BH205 Sec. 2-Rosenthal-BH207 Sec. 3-Pappas-BH108 Sec. 4-:Maddaus ... BH106 Sec. 5--Gillette-BH104 Mathematics 41-l.inear Algebra I Sec. l...Stone-BH203 Sec~. 2-Barbaneh-BH201 . Mathematics 170,...Topology l-Taylor-BH102 Tuesday, June 9 - 2:00-4:00 p.m. Freshman Elective 16-Health and Healing: Historical Perspectives on Current Medical Issues-Dawson-SS014 Art 146-Topics in History: Contemporary Ar.t-Rohrer-AB104 Economics 167:....Semin.ar in Labor-.Prosper:....SS115 English 57-Literature of the Seventeenth Century-8tevenson-HU116 English 61-Rise of the Novel-Tharsing-HU110 --. History 55-The Soviet Period-Berk.-.HU115 .. History 147-Topics in English Legal and Constitutional History-Allen-BS117 History 197'-Seminar: Analysis and Uses of Histoty-WellS:....SS112 Philosophy 6l ... Philosopby of Religion-Morris-HU117 Philosophy 162-Phllosophy of Language-Ludwig-HU114 Political Science u-contemporary American Politics-Underwood-88113 Political .Science 65-Urban Politics-Tidmarch-88012 Statistics 110-Introduction to Statistical Methods-Delaney--BH201 Accounting tO-Financial Accounting-Mercer-BH207 Biology 159-Plari.t Physiology-Birecka-N222 Physics 13-Introduction to Pbysics II (Physical Science and Engineering Science Majors) Section 1 and 2-Hall-BU204 · Psychology 66-Seminar in Social Psychology-Lipton-PY204 E.S. 32-'Electrical Circuits and Devices II Sec. 1-Kwnp-BH104 Sec. 2-Goodheart-BU109 Wednesday, June 10-8:30.10:30a.m. Comp. Lit. 44-Baroque, Enlightenment, and Romanticism-Freund-QC Economics 10-Elementary Economics, Sec. 2-Pahup-SS115 Economics 33-Public Policy and American Industry-Klein...SS012 Economics 42-Macroeconornic Theory and Policy-Kershner-88112 English 44-Humanities III: Enlightenment and Romanticism-Freund-OC English 78-Structure of the English Language: Linguistics-Nelson-HU115 & HUll? History 16-The New Nation: The United States, 1765-1815-Wells-88117 History 45-The Second World War Era-Hansen-88016 . History l(~t-The Catholic Church .in Latin America-Bristol..SSOt4 French 12--Basic French III-Thomas-HU116 American Studies 18-Docwnentary Expression-Nye-HU110 •• Accounting 11-li'inancial Accounting U-Hurley-BH205 Biology 22--Biology of Plants-Core ll-Frohlich, Tobiessen-BH207 Biology 23-The Cell-Core III-smith, Butterstein-HUOl9 Biology 134-Population Biology-J. Boyer-N222 Chemistry tO-Fundamental Chemistry I Sec. t-Hayes-BU204 Sec. 2-Brownlee-BU204 Sec. 3-Scaife-BU204 Chemistry t34-0rganic Chemistry III-Quaal-BH104 Mathematics 12-Calculus II-Muckenfuss-HU114 Mathematics 24-Geometry-Rosenthal-BH106 Mathematics SO-Ordinary Differential Equations, Sec. 1-Maddaus-BH 201 Physics 13-Introduction to Physics II (Biology, Science, Humanities and Social Science MAJORS( ++Schick-88101 Physics 14--Elements of Modern Physics, Sec. 2-Peak:....SHt06 Physics 124-Biophysical Research Techniques-Newrnan:....SH2t9 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 2-Calabria-PY213 Psychology 42--Psychological Assessment-Nydegger-PY102 Psychology 46-Introduction to PsychobiQlogy-Markiewicz-PY113 E.S. 19-Biomechanics-Bingham:....SHtOO E.s.33-Fluid Systems Analysjg...Ketchwn-8H 110 C.E. 41-Legal Aspects of Engineering-Harlow-BUH16 C.E. 150-Water Resources--8now-BU300 . C.E. 15t-Hyt:U'aulics and Hydrology-Jewell-BH102 C.S. 42-Numerical Methods-Craig-BU109 _ Wednesday, June 10-11:15-1:15p.m. History 24-History of Ute South-clinton-88112 French 130-Readings in Contemporary French Literature-Thomas-BUllS French 134-The French Language in Practical Use n Sec. t-McDennott-HU110 · Sec. 2-Ruthman-HU112 Mathematics 10-Calculus I-Fairchild-BH201 E.S. 16-Mechanics I-Weiss-BH104 E.S. to-Mechanics I-Ullman-N116 Wednesday, June 10 •.Z:oo-4:GOp.m. Freshman Elective 75-The Biology of Sex-Lambert-BH106 Economics tO-Elementary Economics, Sec. 1-Prosper-BS115 Economics 11-Elementary Economics, Sec. 1-Lewis...SS113 Chinese 12-Basic Intensive Chinese III-Lo-HU116 German 11-Basic German II-Mache-HU112 Biology 147-Innnunology-styles-BH 104 · Biology 166-Brain and Behavior-Markiewicz-PY204 Chemistry 16-Inorganic Chemistry I-Weick-N116 Chemistry 30-0rganic Chemistry I-.Martin--BU204 Geology 11-Historical Geology-Zimmerman-.BU109 . Mathematics 18-Introduction to Logic and Set Theory-Zwicker-BH108 Mathematics lOt-Advanced Calculus for Engineers-Stone-BH203 Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I (Pbysical Science and Engineering Science Majors )-Ohanian-8H106 Physics t4-Elements of Modem Physics, Sec. 1-Pilcher-SHUO l?hysics t36-classical Mechanics-Reich-8Ht00 Psychology 34-The Psychology of Language-D' Andrea-PY113 C.E. 160-Transportation Engineering-Griggs-;-BYl~ C.S. u-.FORTRAN Programming for the Soctal.Sctences-Branch-BH207 C.S. 12-Programming for the Sciences-Russ-BH201 C.S.l&-Introduction to Computer Organization Sec. 1-Goodheart Sec. 2-Gajjar-HU019 - . C.S. 34-COBOL and Infonnation Processing-Chadwick-HU117 Psychology 2o-8tatistical Methods in Psychomogy-Greenburg-PY213

OONOORDIENSIS, May ,1, 1981 Pa.ge 7 Final Examination Schedule Spring Term 1980-81 Those stltdents wbo have three exams on one day can appeal their schedules to Dean Nelson's office in tbe Science and Engineering Center. ONLY these students may register an appeal. All other exam schedules are final. IMPORTANT: This exam schedule is primarily for regular, ''day'' undergraduate cours~. A separate schedule for Graduate Studies l!Ild Continuing ·Education courses will be announced, and students in \Section 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam time for those courses. Those who have three (3) examinations in one day and wish to seek relief may see Dean Nelson, Room SlOO, Science and Engineering Bldg. before June 1, 1981. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. AB-Arts Building BH-Bailey Hall BU-Butterfield Hall HU-Humanities Building N-North Wing, Science-Engr. Center OC-Old Chapel PY -Psychology Laboratory 88-Social Sciences Building SH-8teinmetz Hall CH-Carnegie Hall Monday, June 8- 8:3&-10:30 a.m. Freshman Elective 24-Perspectives of the Modern Mind-Tharsing-SS313 Liberal Learning 22-Sound and Music-Branch-BH 207 Latin 12-Latin Reading-Reece-HU 116 Economics 11-Elementary Economics, Sec. 2-Wiese-SS 012 English 27-Comedy-Heinegg-BU 204 English 51-Chaucer-Murphy-HU 112 History 17-Crisis, Conflict and Compromise: America 1815-1877-Clinton-'PY 102 History 26-Th~ United States in the World Arena-Jonas-ss 112 History 52-Modern France: The Paris Commune to de Gaulle-Hansen-SS 010 History 71-The Modern History of the Middle Eash-CH 205-Berk French 11-Basic French 11-McDermott-HU 115 German 12-Basic German III-Mache-HU 117 Rus~ian 136-Readings in Russian Uterature-Jernakoff-HU 016 Spanish 12-Basic Spanish III-Ihrie-8S014 Spanish 131-lntroduction to Spanish-American Literature-Ginsberg-HU 110 Spanish 134-The Spanish Language in Practical Use II-Ginsberg-HU 110 Philosophy 21-8ymbolic Logic-Ludwig-HU 114 Political Science 12-Contemporary International Politics-Gati-sS 117 Political Science 47-Law and Public Policy-Board-8S 115 Biology 153-Advanced Ecology-Tobiessen-BH 104 Biology 154-Chordate Embryology-B. Boyer-BH 205 Chemistry 4o-Quantitative Chemistry-Werner-N 116 Chemistry 150-Physical Chemistry I-Anderson-BU 106 Mathematics 30-0rdinary Differential Equations, Sec. 2-Pappas-BH 203 Mathematics 33-Abstract Algebra II-Rosen-BH 108 Physics 44-Introduction to AstronomyppTitus-BH 201 Physics 125-Modem Computing Methods in Physics-Reich-SH 100 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 3-Lipton-PY 113 Psychology 33-Cognitive Psychology-Greenberg-PY 213 E.L.L. 12-Homes, Buildings and Engineering Principles-Harlow-sH 110 E.L.L. 30-Dilemmas of Physical Resources Sec. 1-Ketchum-HU 014 Sec. 2-Martin-HU 019 E.S. 42-Electric Circuits II-Craig-BU 109 C.E. 131-structural Steel-Rapant-BU 300 M.E. 40-Introduction to Engineering Design-Eisenstadt-N222 M.E. 40-Introduction to Engineering Design-Ullman-N210 Monday, June 8-11:15-1:15 p.m. Economics 146-Economic and Business Forecasting-Kershner-sS 117 Economics 149-Contemporary Economic Issues-Kenney-SS010 . . History 49-Contemporary Britain: World War II to the Present-Fmkelstem-sS 014 Philosophy 31}-Greek Philosophy-Taylor-HU117 Political Science 21-Methods of Social Research-Huggins-BH207 Political Science 51-American Foreign Policy-Gati-88115 Political Science 70-Civil Liberties-Daniels-8S112 Sociology 10-Introduction to Sociology, Sec. 2~chneller-BH201 Sociology 60-Methods of Social Research-Hug~ms-BH207. . . American Studies 162-Advanced Theory Semmar+ Seimotlcs and Amer1can Culture-Nye-HU116 · Mathematics 127-Numerical Analysis-Reynolds-BH203 . . Psychology 39-Introduction to the Study of Sex Roles-Bntam-PY113 E.S. 11-Engineering Graphics-Eisenstadt-N116. . C.E. 2&--Land Measurements: Theory and Applicatlon-Male-BU109 C.E. 170-Design Project-Griggs-BU106 . . E.E.152-Microprocessors and Microcomputers: Architecture, Programmmg and Applications-Gajjar-8H101 . . C.S. 40-Machine and Assembly Language, Sec. 1 & 2-Williams-BU204 Tuesday, Jtme9 -8:3&-10:30 a.m. Freshman Elective 45-The Last Wilderness: The Human Mind-Huntley-PY213 Art 51-Modern Architecture II: The 2oth Century-Rohrer-AB104 Music 10-Introd.uction to Music-Wilson-AB202 . . Classics 42-8pecial Topics in Classics: The Archaeological Remams of the Roman World-Ketterer-CH205 . Economics tO-Elementary Economics, Sec. 3-Klem-8So12 English 40-Literature of the Bible-SS016-Freund English 47-Contemporary Drama-Ullmann-HU112 English 56-Shakespeare after 16()()-~urphy-HU115 History 42-Late Medieval and Renaissance ~~ope-Allen-8Sl17 History 82-The Development of Modef!I Medicme-Dawson-~019 . History 117-The American Economy smce the New Deal-Fmkelstem-88115 Russian 12-Basic Russian III-Jern~koff-HU116 Philosophy 140-Epistemology-Kammsky-HU014 . Sociology tO-Introduction to Sociologr, Sec. 1-Huggms-8S112 Biology 158-Plant Morphology-Frohlich-N116 Biology 168-Cellular Neurophysiol?gy-Lambert-BH201 Chemistry 12-FWidamental Chennstry II Sec. 1-Schaefer-BU204 Sec. 2-Hull-BU204 Sec. 3-Hull-BU204 . · BH205 Mathematics 21-Mathematical Meth?ds for ~he Social Sc1ences II-Rosen- Mathematics 134-Differential Eq.uatl0ns~eiken-~H102 . . . Physics 11-Introduction to PhyslCS I (Btology, Sctence, Humanlttes and Social Science Majors)-Newman-BH207 . Physics 142-Application of Quant~ Mechantcs-Peak-SH219 Psychology 24-Social Psychology-Lipton-PY102 Psychology 70-Seminar in Cognitive Psychology-Greenberg-PY204 E S 20-Mechanics II-Panlilio-8H110 C .E. !53-Environmental Engineering II-8now-BU300 E·.E: 33-Analysis and Design of Electronic Circuits-Chan_g-BU109 Tuesday, June 9 ·11:15-1:15 p.m. Italian 10-Basic Italian, Sec. 1 & 2-Del1ario-HU112 Sociology 134-Sociology of Mental Hea1th-Morrisey-SS113 Sociology 158-Aging in America-Melick-88112 Mathematics 14-Calculus III Sec. 1-8eiken-BH205 Sec. 2-Rosenthal-BH207 Sec. 3-Pappas-BH108 Sec. 4-Maddaus-BH106 Sec. 5-Gillette-BH104 Mathematics 41-Linear Algebra I Sec. l...:Stone-BH203 Sec. 2-Barbanel~BH201 Mathematics 170-Topology I-Taylor-BH102 Tuesday, June 9-2:004:00 p.m. Freshman Elective 16-Health and Healing: Historical Perspectives on Current Medical Issues-Dawson-SS014 Art 146-Topics in History: Contemporary Art-Rohrer-AB104 Economics 167-Seminar in Labor-Prosper-88115 English 57-Literature of the Seventeenth Century-Stevenson-HU116 English 61-Rise of the Novel-Tharsing-HUUO History 51>-The Soviet Period-Berk-HU115 History 147-Topics in English Legal and Constitutional History-Allen-SS117 History 197-8eminar: Analysis and Uses of History-Wells-SS112 Philosophy 61-Philosophy of Religion-Morris-HU117 Philosophy 162-Philosophy of Language-Ludwig-HU114 Political Science 11-Contemporary American Politics-Underwood-SS113 Political Science 65-Urban Politics-Tidmarch-88012 Statistics 110-Introdllction to Statistical Methods-Delaney-BH201 Accounting 10-Financial AccoWiting-Mercer-BH207 Biology 159-Plant Physiology-Birecka-N222 Physics 13-Introduction to Physics II (Physical Science and Engineering Science Majors) Section 1 and 2-Hall-BU204 · Psychology 66-Seminar in Social Psycaology-Lipton-PY204 E.S. 32-Electrical Circuits and Devices II Sec. 1-Kump-BH1()4 Sec. 2-Goodheart-BU109 Wednesday, June 10-8:36-10:30a.m. Comp. Lit. 44-Baroque, Enlightenment, and Romanticism-Freund-OC Economics tO-Elementary Economics, Sec. 2-Pahup-SS115 Economics 33-Public Policy and American Industry-Klein-SS012 Economics 42-Macmeconomic Theory and Policy-Kershner-8S112 English 44-Humanities III: Enlightenment and Romanticism-Freund-QC English 78-Structure of the English Language: Linguistics-Nelson-HU115 & HU117 History 16-The New Nation: The United States, 1765-1815-Wells-8S117 History 45-The Second World War Era-Hansen-88016 . History 161-The Catholic Church in Latin America-Bristol-88014 French 12-Basic French III-Thomas-HU116 American Studies 18-Documentary Expression-Nye-HUllO · Accounting 11-Financial Accounting II-Hurley-BH205 Biology 22-Biology of Plants-Core II-Frohlich, Tobiessen-BH207 Biology 23-The Cell..Core III-smith, Butterstein-HU019 Biology 134-Population Biology-J. Boyer-N222 Chemistry !&--Fundamental Chemistry I Sec. 1-Hayes-BU204 Sec. 2-Brownlee-B U204 Sec. 3-8caife-BU204 Chemistry 134-0rganic Chemistry III-Quaal-BH104 Mathematics 12-Calculus II-Muckenfuss-HU114 Mathematics 24-Geometry-Rosenthal-BHlOO Mathematics 36-0rdinary Differential Equations, Sec. 1-Maddau.s-BH 201 Physics 13-Introduction to Physics II (Biology, Science, Humanities and Social Science MAJORS( ++Schick-SH101 Physics 14-Elements of Modern Physics, Sec. 2-Peak-SH106 Physics 124-Biophysical Research Techniques-Newman-8H219 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 2-Calabria-PY213 Psychology 42-Psychological Assessment-Nydegger-PY102 Psychology 46-Introduction to Psychobiology-Markiewicz-PY113 E.S. 19-Biomechanics-Bingham-SHlOO E.s.33-Fluid Systems Analysis-Ketchum-SH 110 C.E. 41-Legal Aspects Qf Engineering-Harlow-BU106 C.E. 150-Water Resources-8now-BU300 C.E. !51-Hydraulics and Hydrology-Jewell-BH102 C.S. 42-Numerical M:ethods-Craig-BU109 Wednesday, June 10-11:15-1:15 p.m. History 24-History of the South-Clinton-SS112 French 130-Readings in Contemporary French Literature-Thomas-HUllS French 134-The French Language in Practical Use II Sec. 1-McDennott-HUllO Sec. 2-Ruthman-HU112 Mathematics 10-Calculus I-Fairchild-BH201 E.S. 10-Mechanics I-Weiss-BH104 E.S. 1&--Mechanics I-Ulhnan-N116 Wednesday, June 10- 2:011-4:00 p.m. Freshman Elective 75-The Biology of Sex-Lambert-BH106 Economics to-Elementary Economics, Sec. 1-Prosper-SS115 Economics 11-Elementary Economics, Sec. 1-Lewis--88113 Chinese 12-Basic Intensive Chinese III-Lo-HU116 German 11-Basic German II-Mache-HU112 Biology 147-Irnmunology-Styles-BH 104 Biology 166-Brain and Behavior-Markiewicz-PY204 Chemistry 16-Inorganic Chemistry I-Weick-N116 Chemistry 3D-Organic Chemistry I-Martin-BU204 Geology 11-Historical Geology-Zimmerman-BU109 Mathematics lB-Introduction to Logic and Set Theory-Zwicker-BH108 Mathematics 101-Advanced Calculus for Engineers-Stone-BH203 Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I (Physical Science and Engineering Science Majors)-Ohanian...SH106 . . Physics 14-Elements of Modem Phys1cs, Sec. 1-Ptlcher-SHllO Physics 136-Classical Mechanics-Reich-SH100 Psychology 34-The Psychology of Language-D' Andrea-PY113 C.E. 160-Transportation Engineering-Griggs-BY106 C.S. 11-FORTRAN Programming for the Social Sciences-Branch-BH207 C.S. 12,...Programming for the Sciences-Russ-BH201 C.S.18-Introduction to Computer Organization Sec. 1-Goodheart Sec. 2-Gajjar-HU019 C.S. 34-COBOL and Information Processing-Chadwick-HU117 Psychology 20-Statistical Methods in Psycho]ogy-Greenburg-PY213

Page 8 ., c/\ . L'' ') . : \' ~·~ . . . Wqat's HappelliQg Friday May 22 AD Phi Porch Party North-South All Campus Party Film \Caddyshack\-10 p.m.- -SS016 Saturday May 23 Camp Union-Dallas Night Film \Caddyshack\-8 and 10 p.m.-SS016 Sunday May 24 Film \Caddyshack\--8 and 10 p.m.--sS016 Monday May 25 Intellectual Cabaret-'9 p.m.- Cabaret Room , _ OONOORDIENSIS. May j1, 1981 • Ices Tuesday May 26 •. justments. He will also suggest Film \Fiddler onthe Roof\-7 probable outcomes of the and 10 p.m.--sSOt6 · current budgetary cutbacks . GeQ~ral Nottices '!J\~<~:. Administrative and El){gfneering Systems Colloquium .presents Robert M. Crane, Deptuy Coirunissioner for Program and Policy Development New Y erk State Office of Health Systems Management who will be speaking on the relationship between Federal and State Health Policy on Thursday, May 28 at 3:45p.m. Mr. Crane wil1 examine the choices and tradeoffs confronting health care policy makers in the 1980's. He will deal with the interaction of .federal and state health programs and funding ad- Paernan~ Wacka. Wa-cka, Wow., Mao; Tung; ~r.in.da, Casablanca, Ellen , • . . ..... - , The Administrative and En.g in e e ring Systems Colloquim present_ Spencer Johnson, M.P.A., Executive Vice-President. Hospital Association of New York State who will be speaking on Health.\' . Care Policy from the Provider's Perspective on Thursday, May 21, 3:45 p.m. in Room 207 Bailey Hall. Mr. Jobnson . received his M.P.A. from the Sloa~ .Instit_ute of Hos:pital Adrmmstratwn at Cornell University. He was a professional Staff Member of . . the U.S. Senate Committee on Human Resources, .and ·.Associate Director of the Demestic CouncU for Health,- Social Security, Income ' Assistance, in the White House. . Summer Subletters Needed one block from Campus. Single .- .. ,. bedrooms. Call 370-'6499 Bob or Rich ' The Joint Colloquium of the Department of Electrical . Engineering and the Depart~ ment of Physics, Union College present Dr. Don Mac Lannan of General Electric Research and Development r'.aooratory. His .speech is entitled. \Very Large Scale Integrated Circuits\ ( \t.low Much can WE Expect to Pack Into How Little and Why?\). Wednesday, May 27, Steinmetz Hall, Room 106 4: 30 p.m. Refreshments at 4 in Steinmetz Hall, Room .219. All are invited to attend Fu:rnished apartment for ' lease-Summer and-or Fall1981. .. Three or Four bedroom, full kitchen, bath and living room. Less than one block from · campus near Mohawk-National Bank, 1583 .Ave. A. Call Jeff, Rob, or Dave at 6757, 6727, or 6970. An important informational ·meeting on the Union College Term in Washington for 1981-82 .. will be held on Monday, May 25 at 4:30 p.m. in Soc. Sciences Room 115 .. At that time ap- plications for the program will be available. The program will be. conducted in Washington during the Spring term of next year. Potential applicants who are unable to attend this meeting should pick up an application form in the Political Science Department office (SS 216). Questions should be directed to Prof. Charles Tid- march. Wondering about those little red light pins seen around campus lately? Well it's called the Nite Lite. IF you would like to buy one for yourself, or a friend, see Denise at 405 Rich- mond House or call 6879. \=-.-<\ • • -~--' ~---··kw· CAMP WESTERN UNION WRUC Presents: NIGHT II An evening of latin American Music -The Music of South and Central America- • featuring Special Guest DJ Prof. Martha Huggins Tuesday, May 26 · 11 :00 WRUC 90 .• 9 FM Union College America's Oldest Radio Station w L :M SE R ~t he ot b~ Y< yc m 0 w ac ac u aJ

Page 8 OONCORDIENSIS. May !1~ 1981 • Ices c • .. · ... \.. ·. ........._..._ .- .,;;c ............ , ,...., , \\\ ~ Wqat's Happeqir,g Friday May 22 AD Phi Porch Party North-South All Campus Party Film \Caddyshack\-10 p.m.- -SS016 Saturday May 23 Camp Union-Dallas Night Film \Caddyshack\-8 and 10 p.m.-88016 Sunday May 24 Film \Caddyshack\--8 and 10 p.m.-8S016 Monday May 25 Intellectual Cabaret-9 p.m.- Cabaret Room ATTENTION JEANETTE'S GRAVE\\ GIRLS: The Agents of the :Mu Empire (10-4), do hereby challenge you for the bragging rights on campus. We are willing to spot you 10 runs and play the field without our mitts. A ~erball for the win- ners! Sunday 11 AM? The 700 South A~O.T.M.E. Tuesday May 26 Film \Fiddler on the Roof\-7 and 10 p.m.-sSOI6 Geq~ral Nottices The Administrative and Engineering Systems Colloquium presents Robert M. Crane, Deptuy Commissioner for Program and Policy Development New York State Office of Health Systems Management who will be speaking on the relationship between Federal and State Health Policy on Thursday, May 28 at 3:45p.m. Mr. Crane will examine the choices and tradeoffs confronting health care policy makers in the 1980's. He will deal with the interaction of federal and state health programs and funding ad- Kel: Phenomenal. B-JO: Are you sure it was just the soprano that was balled? Pacman, Wacka. Wacka, Wow, Mao, Tung, L{)rinda, Casablanca, Ellen . . . Share--all: I NEED MY UP GLOSS!! Love always, the Myrna, I love you! 'l'.H. esq. husband stealer, Mrs. Flavius. Lake George Crew-·Bean Didn>t get TOO tuned at the sandwiches on toast? . Clambake. (Don't forget the B.C. If you leave I'm going to miss you-I need you to help maintain my sanity. CR Bo,l) ILY,2)Study,3) Youre an asshole, 4) See 2 above. Sue. Do asshQles and weirdos make good pairs? I can't deal. Dear O'Leary's-CONGRATS ON THE NEW MEMBER!! Love, thf:l Staff Jay--Here's a personal ·because I want you to love me · even though I won't type for you • anymore. Guess who! Disctl Bowling.) IT HAS HOOKS! p.s. The menu of macaroni and cheese, Sugar Daddys, Spanish olives, and orange peels didn't help any. ''I won•t fall out, Arth! I'll hold onF' Fran- Your art career was washed down the drain Friday, but we could always start from scratch.-Mr. Bill Look·alike justments. He will also suggest probable outcomes of the current budgetary cutbacks. The Administrative and Engineering Systems Colloquim present Spencer Johnson, M.P.A., Executive Vice-President. Hospital Association of New York State who will be speaking on Health Care Policy from the Provider's Perspective on Thursday, May 21, 3:45 p.m. in Room 207, Bailey Hall. Mr. Johnson received his M.P.A. from the Sloan Institute of Hospital Administration at Cornell University. He was a professional Staff Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Human Resources, and Associate Director of the Domestic Council for Health, Social Security, Income Assistance, in the White House. Summer Subletters Needed one block from Campus. Single To all the little, little, beautiful little smuts: I love you all, even though you give me many an A~squared. Love, Jo Francis Nelbach is a simulated asshole. Buy any leather hoods lately? Sorkie, Looking forward to an amazing year. H. and R. · Dear Pamela: I figure that the more personals I write to you, the more often you speak to me. I'd better stop writing personals. Danny-Don't let Pam visit you. Guess who will be in her suitcase? Do you really want to see her bad enough to risk a .. visit\ from me?-Love and kisses-RIM Lake George Midnight Bare- Assed Swim Club: How cold was it? Trouble: Remember that groupies do it while wearing their hats.-RIM Anybody for watching storms on rooftops? Humuray: How long has it been? Kim be: Are you sure you're getting enough to eat? We're really worried about you . . . Chip and Jim: Frank and Arlene send their regards and hope the lingu.ine is off the car. 356 D, ''Thanks for the memories'', and the great year M.K., I Love you-A ~ecret t th 1 T ~ H d R admirer. oge er. L!VVe · an MOO HA HAll We want Hilmer and his 11 inches!! CAMP WESTERN UNION vooD DALLAS NIGHT II bedrooms. Call 370-6499 Bob or Rich The Joint Colloquium of the Department of Electrical EngiHeering and the Depart- ment of Physics, Union College present Dr. Don MacLannan of General Electric Research and Development Laboratory. His speech is entitled. \Very Large Scale Integrated Circuits\ (\How Much can WE Expect to Pack Into How Little and Why?\). Wednesday, May 27, Steinmetz Hall, Room 106 4:30 p.m. Refreshments at 4 in Steinmetz Hall, Room 219. All are invited to attend Furnished apartment for lease-smnmer and-or Fall1981. Three or Four bedroom, full kitchen, bath and living room. Less than one block from campus near Mohawk National Bank, 1583 Ave. A. Call Jeff, Rob, or Dave at 6757, 6727, or 6970. Jonesey: Do you like head cheese? · Oh what a gaseous web u ~ - '.. 1.4 • .. g ... ~,...J.o·a~~,....,e-'\.Q ~ An important informational meeting on the Union College Term in Wasl:lington for 1981-82 will be l:leld on Monday, May 25 at 4:30 p.m. in Soc. Sciences Room 115. At that time ap- plications for the program will be available. The program wiH be conducted in Washington during the SpriHg term of next year. Potential applicants who are unable to attend this meeting should pick up an application form in the Political Science Department office (SS 216). Questions should be directed to Prof. Charles Tid- march. Wondering about those little red light pins seen around campus lately? Well it's called the Nite Lite. IF you would like to buy one for yourself, or a friend, see Denise at 405 Rich- mond House or call 6879. had to, rd rather not. Success walks hand in hand with faill.lttn-\HTYBO weave. Welcome Little Caitalin and CodfiSh. We love you!! SUe, Bo, Jo- You and all the Toi.ds are and Cow invited to the apartment Winter -------~-- term.-Derbs Lazelle-•Liek tho-se CREAMsieles good! Don't forget the PF's. Lov¢. 10-0 and The Mad Popsicle Bobbi-Blow your nose lately? Love, Us Love those dancing eggs! To all 'c(}ncerned-Disco bowling was a riot!M·The happy loser CAMP UNION! ! GET PSYCHED!! Dearest Toids: Looking forward to living next to you next year. By the way, Cheryl, nice ass!-a Concerned Tool Maddog-HQpe you have a wicked good birthday. Here's to Shitfaeedotnl Love, Ryntts - D.M.P.: Best one you'll ever get. Welcome to the family, Bork! ' D.W., You're a sweetje! I'm waiting for you! Love, me. Chuck E.'s in love!! ~--~--------~~ Maypole-Stop worrying you fool! You couldn't get rid of me if you tried-But don't try! Love, kisses, etc . . . Lori .... We lave that toothless grill! S & R Impeach the Wild Woman!! B. c.-You)re some dancer!! Signed by Fearless Sebastian Next time rube your partner, . J.S.-·You aintt no real instead of him! Love, C.:R. woman! A capital S all the way- -thanks fQt a great weekend. Sue-Do you think we'll sur- vive it? This is only the . • b tN igflt y t . Mark-You misinterpreted eo.nn n ·\ our par ner m · · \too long ..... I'd wait forever if I WRUC Presents: An evening of Latin American Music -The Music of South and Central America- • - Featuring Special Guest DJ Prof. Martha Huggins Tuesday, May 26 .. 11:00 WRUC 90~9 FM Union College America's Oldest Radio Station ·' • J>-' • I . ,.~~ /Vr- 'i,. 0' • . ...... ,.., . (. \ . w L M St R st he ot b~ yc yc m 0: ac ac 12 aJ

' ! (. OONCORDIENSIS, Ma,y, B1, 1981 Page 9 ' -~ ... l> l., .. \ ' t.:. .> . . l· • ·. . 'Jrl -' {.,•. ~ <.- .. \ LOST-A gold and black ring with a gold letter B in the front. Lost in Jal;kson's Garden on Monday May 16. Has great sentimental value. If found call Rich at 372-6137. Professor of Philosophy at the University of Michigan, will be on campus next week as the . visiting professor in the Spring Term Faculty Seminar, on Linguistics. Professor Kim is especially interested in how we are able to use language ''to talk about, or .refer to, ex:.. tralinguistic things, events, and processes in the world.'' According to him, ''This is also the question how our thought can 'hook up' with things out- side our minds,\ .and thus relates to ''some important problems in philosophy of mind and theory of khowledge.\ In connection with his visit, Professor Kim will deliver a public lecture on Wednesday, 2.7 May, at 8:00 P.M. in Strauss Attention! After June 15 all student mail will be sent to home addresses unless otherwise specified in writing by each student. If you want your mail to be delivered to your mailbox in Carnegie you must notify the Student Affairs Office prior to June 12. If you would like your mail sent to an address other than your home address please notify us by June 12. See Brenda Barnes to make arrangements. . . Lounge. The title of the lecture · is: ''Three Theories of Reference.\ In it Professor Kim will present some of his research in a manner suitable to a general audience. All in- terested members of the campus community are invited to attend the lecture, and the reception immediately af- Professor Jaegwon Kim, FLASH Bt.;LLETIN! Senior Fling Details The 1981 Senior Fling will be live at Lake George and Thatcher Park to officially celebrate that last thesis chapter, that last final, the last draft of your resume, the ntunerous rejection letters that paper your wall, another x years to be spent attending graduate school, or those final days before becoming another employment statistic. Given, too, that the balance in your checking account is dangerously low, this y~ar's events will be offered at a smgle digit figure of $6.00! Tickets are limited and will be sold ONLY during the tenth week of the term: June 1-5, from 1-3:30 p.m., at Carnegie. Included in the price of the ticket: a band and boat .ride at Lake George on Wednesday night, June 10 (rain or shine) AND Flowing Free Beer all day . Thursday, June 11, at Thatcher Park (rain date Friday). There will be a cash bar on the boat. . terwards. William and Renee Hoffert, Also you are encouraged to bring your own food .and play ground equipment to Thatcher Park. Buses will ·be provided on a first come first serve basis for a nominal fee of $1.00 (round trip to Lake George) and $.50 (round trip to Thatcher Park). You must sign up and pay for the bus during the week of ticket sales. Tickets will be made available to all students; but only during the above men- tioned dates. So get psyched for one last hurrah and buy your tickets early! The Moral Majority · Comes to Union Have you ever wondered what the Moral Majority was all about? Are you a member of the \Immoral Minority\? Do you · watch the Rever and Jerry Falwell on Sunday mornings? If so, you will be interested in the next Intellectual Cabaret, Monday the twenty fifth at 9:00. A representative from t~e Moral Majority will state the1r positions on a variety of issues. To provide a counter-argwnent, THE SNOBS AGAINST THE SLOBS. Caddy shack Presented by Film Committee Fri., May 22 - Sun., May 24 • Ices Capitol District Amway Distributors are pleased to announce their arrival on the Union College Campus Thur- sday May 21st at 4:30 P.M. Meeting . at the Placement Office, the Hofferts will discuss business opportunities and marketing on a national and international scale. The presentation is open to aH, with advance literature available in the Placement Office. A sign-up sheet will also be available to indicate intent to attend along with a career profile which the Hofferts request be completed in advance. We still need ushers for this year's commencement exer- cises. If you are interested, please see Brenda in the Student Affairs Office or call 6061 as soon as possible. Thank you. QUALITY carpentry, roofing and masonry work (patios, sidewalks, etc.) done. EX- PERIENCED in buil«;ling over 30 homes. Available for work June8, 1981, Free estimates and low rates. Call Thomas Cum- mings at 370-6580 or Daniel Professor Stanley Kaminsky of the Philosophy D~partment will also be present. Lively debate will be sure to ensue, so no matter what your position, go to the Cabaret for stimulating discussion, education, and entertainment. Engineering Picnic The Engineering Picnic will be held on Friday May 22 at 2 p.m. in Jackson's Gardens. Food, drink, and various ac- tivities will be going on all af- ternoon. WRUC will be sup- plying the music. Come on down and talk to the profs one on one, drink, eat, and enjoy. lloEnecOD1Umg'81 On Thursday, May 21 at 4 p.m. in the Banquet Room, Carnegie there will be a meeting of all interested students and administrators concerning Homecoming '81. People who have questions can call the Alwnni Office at 6168. Refreshments will be served. Typing Service Per Page Cheryl 399-7614 Plea.se have all nottices in by , 7:00 on Tue. Grnelecki at 382-2082 after 7 p.m. FOR SALE: TEAC A-107 ' Home Stereo Cassette Deck with Dolby noise re4uction, high-density ferrite head, 30-16 kHz frequency response, 0.08 per cent wow and flutter. Purchased new one year ago and was well maintained. Selling with head demagnetizer for best offer. Call' Dan at 382- 2082 after 7 p.m. . \Dr. C. P. Bean of the G.E. · · Research and Development Center will speak after the Sigma Xi Annual Initiation and Dinner on Thursday, May 28, at 9:00 P.M. in SS 016 on 'How the Sperm Meets the Egg'. The public is invited to attend.\ All seniors interested in planning a senior Ca.bare_t, there will be a meetmg m Strauss Lounge, Sunday May 24, 1981 at 9:00 p.m. · Gay discussion. group for men and women. All are welcome. Tuesday, May 26 at 8:30p.m. in Milano Lounge. Refreshments! For information call: Dana 370- '6592 Or Chip 374-8237 or 370-6207. Senior woman looking for an · apartment for fall tenn. If you have a friend that will be on a term abroad this fall, that will need a place to stay during the winter and spring, CALL ME.! I promise I'll go peacefully. Please call 370-6552 if y.ou have a place available. Monday, May 25, at 9:00, the Intellectual Cabaret will present the \Moral Majority.\ A representative of the Moral Majority and Professor Stanley Kaminsky will de bate the religious and political issues raised by the Moral Majority. The Philosophy Forum will have a lunch table Weds., May 27, noon to 1:30 in the Pub. All are welcome. FIJI ISLAND 'Sf ISLAND BAN.D PARTY! ALL ARE WELCONtE! Friday, May 22,1981 at 10:00 p.m. Free Beer & Punch Admission s1 .00 1 Day Until BLAST OFF ••• for the 1st Annual North-South College BECKER BLAST May 22nd at 4 p .. m. Behind Stanley Becker Hall Everyone's Invited- Molson's Beer Served! ~ f~~ 1115 BARRETT ST. _SCHENECTADY PHONE 377-2642 or 387-1684 Homestyle Italian Cooking Salad Bar Included with All Pasta & All Dinners Reasonable prices Plus a 10% Discount to Union College Students·with IDs Banquet Facilities

t l. OONCORDIENSIS, May S1, 1981 Page 9 '\ . Professor of Philosophy at the University of Michigan, will be on campus next week as the visiting professor in the Spring Term Faculty Seminar on Linguistics. Professor Kim is especially interested in now we are able to use language \to talk about, or refer to, ex- tralinguistic things, events, and processes iN the world.\ According to him, \This is also the question how our thought can 'hook up' with things out- side our minds,\ and thus relates to \some important problems in philesophy of mind and theory of knowledge.\ c LOST-A gold and black ring with a gold letter B in the front. Lost in Jackson's Garden on Monday May 16. Has great sentimental value. If found call Rich at 372-6137. Attention! After June 15 all student mail will be sent to home addresses unless otherwise specified in writing by each student. If you want your mail to be delivered to your mailbox in Carnegie you must notify the Student Affairs Office prior to June 12. If you would like your mail sent to an address other than your home address please notify us by June 12. See Brenda Barnes to make arrangements. Professor Jaegwon Kim, FLASH Bt:LLETIN! Senior Fling Details The 1981 Senior Fling will be live aL Lake George and Thatcher Park to officially celebrate that last thesis chapter, that last final, the last draft of your resume, the munerous rejection letters that paper your wall, another x years to be spent attending graduate school. or those final days before becoming another employment statistic. Given, too, that the balance in your checking account is dangerously low, this year's events will be offered at a single digit figure of $6.00! Tickets are limited and will be sold ONLY during the tenth week of the term: June 1-5, from 1-3:30 p.m., at Carnegie. Included in the price of the ticket: a band and boat ride at Lake George on Wednesday night, June 10 (rain or shine) AND Flowing Free Beer all day . Thursday, June 11, at Thatcher Park (rain date Friday). There will be a cash bar on the boat. In connection with his visit, Professor Kim will deliver a public lecture on Wednesday, 27 May. at 8:00 P.M. in Strauss Lounge. The title of the lecture is: ''Three Theories of Reference.\ In it Professor Kim will present some of his research in a manner suitable to a general audience. All in- terested members of the campus community are invited to attend the lecture, and the reception immediately af- terwards. William and Renee Hoffert, Also you are encouraged to bring your own food and play ground equipment to Thatcher Park. Buses will be provided on a first come first serve basis for a nominal fee of $1.00 (round trip to Lake George land $.50 rround trip to Thatcher Parkl. You must sign up and pay for the bus during the week of ticket sales. Tickets will be made available to all students; but only during the above men- tioned dates. So get psyched for one last hurrah and buy your tickets early! The Moral Majority Comes to Union Have you ever wondered what the Moral Majority was all about: Are you a member of the \Immoral Minority\? Do you ·watch the Reverand Jerry Falwell on Sunday mornings? If so, you will be interested in the next Intellectual Cabaret, Monday the twenty fifth at 9:00. A represen~ativ~ from t~e Moral Majority will state the1r positions on a variety of issues. To provide a counter-argument, TIIESNOBSAGAINSTTHESLOBS •. Caddy shack Presented by Film Committee Fri •• May 22 - Sun., May 24 • Ices Capitol District Amway Distributors are pleased to announce their arrival on the Union College Campus Thur- sday May 21st at 4:30P.M. Meeting at the Placement Office, the Hofferts will discuss business opportunities and marketing on a national and international scale. The presentation is open to all, with advance literature available in the Placement Office. A sign*UP sheet will also be available to indicate intent to attend along with a career profile which the Hofferts request be completed in advance. We still need ushers for this year's commencement exer- cises. If you are interested, please see Brenda in the Student Affairs Office or call 6061 as soon as possible. Thank you. QUALITY carpentry, roofing and masonry work (patios, sidewalks, etc.) done. EX- PERIENCED in building over 30 homes. Available for work June 8, 1981, Free estimates and low rates. Call Thomas Cum- mings at 370-6580 or Daniel Professor Stanley Kaminsky of the Philosophy Department will also be present. Lively debate will be sure to ensue, so no matter what your position, go to the Cabaret for ~timulating discussion, education, and entertainment. Engineering Picnic The Engineering Picnic will be held on Friday May 22 at 2 p.m. in Jackson's Gardens. Food, drink, and various ac- tivities will be going on all af- ternoon. WRUC will be sup- plying the music. Come on down and talk to the profs one on one, drink, eat, and enjoy. Homecoming '81 On Thursday, May 21 at 4 p.m. in the Banquet Room, Carnegie there will be a meeting of all interested students and administrators concerning Homecoming '81. People who have questions can call the Alumni Office at 6166. Refreslunents will be served. Typing Service 75~ Per Page Cheryl 399-7614 Please have all nottices in by 7:00 on Tue. · Grzelecki at 382-2082 after 7 p.m. FOR SALE: TEAC A-107 Home Stereo Cassette Deck with Dolby noise reduction, high-density ferrite head, 30-16 kHz frequency response, 0.08 per cent wow and flutter. Purchased new one year ago and was well maintained. Selling with head demagnetizer for best offer. Call Dan at 382- 2082 after 7 p.m. \Dr. C. P. Bean of the G.E. Research and Development Center will speak after the Sigma Xi Annual Initiation and Dinner on Thursday, May 28, at 9:()0 P.M. in SS 016 on 'How the Sperm Meets the Egg'. The public is invited to attend.\ All seniors interested in planning a senior Ca.bare.t, there will be a meetmg m Strauss Lounge. Sunday May 24, 1981 at 9:00 p.nn. Gay discussion group for men and women. All are welcome. Tuesday, May 26 at 8:30p.m. in Milano Lounge. Refreshments! For information call: Dana 370- 6592 Or Chip 37 Hl237 or 370-6207. Senior woman looking for an apartment for fall term. If you have a friend that will be on a term abroad this fall, that will need a place to stay during the winter and spring, CALL ME! I promise I'll go peacefully. Please call 370-0552 if you have a place available. Monday, May 25, at 9:00, the Intellectual Cabaret will present the .. Moral Majority.\ A representative of the Moral Majority and Professor Stanley Kaminskv will debate the religious ·and political issues raised by the Moral Majority. The Philosophy Forum will have a lunch table Weds., May 2i, noon to 1:30 in the Pub. All are welcome. FIJI ISLAND '81 ISLAND BAND PARTY! ALL ARE WELCON'E! Friday, May 22, 1981 at 10:00 p.m. Free Beer & Punch Admission $1.00 1 Day Until BLAST OFF ••• for the 1st Annual North-South College BECKER BLAST May 22nd at 4 p.m. Behind Stanley Becker Hall Everyone's Invited- Molson's Beer Served! MoU.t ~~~ 1115 BARRETT ST. .SCHENECTADY PHONE 377-2642 or 382-8684 Homestyle Italian Cooking Salad Bar Included with All Pasta & All Dinners Reasonable prices Plus a 10% Discount to Union College Students witb IDs Banquet Facilities

Page 10 OONCORDIEN818~ May 11, 1981 CAMP WESTERN UNION The Day~ Activities · SATURDAY: WEST BEACH 12:00 p.m.-6:00p.m. UNION ID's NEEDED to get wrist- bands for free beer and soda (all day and night) Camp Union Barbeque Bring your meal cards or bring cash. WEST WILL BE CLOSED AT THE REQUEST OF THE SOCIAL COMMITTEE. Barbeque will start at 12:00 p.m. Music Provided .by the Concert Com!mittee featuring · INNER CIRCLE (a Reggae Band) POUSETTE-DART BAND Dallas-Wild West Pictures Dress up in western costumes and have y.our picture taken Caricature Artist · Camp Western Union T-Shirts $3.00 each SATURDAY NIGHT: ACHILLES RINK 9:00p.m.-1 :00 a.m. Wristband or I D's needed for Admission MusicbyTHE TUMBLEWEED CONNE,CTION A Southern Rock Band There wii I be Square Dancing Between Sets WILD WEST CAS I NO Operated through the volunteer efforts of Tri-Delt and SOT. All proceeds to go to charity. $1.00 donation gets you $100.00 in play money. Prizes to go to the top play money winners .of the evening. DOOR PRIZE! Trip for 2 to the 1000-acre Dude ranch in Lake Luzerne. Every $1.00 donation to gamble gives you $100.00 in play money and a raffle ticket for the Dude Ranch Trip. Wild West Pictures-Caricatures FREE BEER AND SODA Friday N.ight at the· ./ D,utch Hollow Pub Sponsored by the Camp Western Union Committee s: oo~7: oo p.m. DINNER with JOHN WAYNE Choice of 5 entrees: Bar-B-Que spare ribs $3.50 Fried Chicken $3.15 Hot Chicken Wings $2.75 Duke Burger ( B~con-Cheddar Cheese) $3.05 Texas Burger (Peppers & Fried Onions} $2.85 {All entrees served with tossed salad, corn on the cob.and steak fries.) Pitcher of Beer of Carafe of Wine $1 extra. Salad Bar $1 extra. apple pie a Ia mode .. 95 choc. cake .85 9:30-close .Kahlua and Tequila Drink Specials $.85 Music b~Jhe .Martin Brothers Band : CAMP WESTERN UNION SPECIAL. THURS. and FRI. CARNEGIE HALL 12:30 - 4:30 Cowboy- Hats s1.00 GET THEM WHILE THEY LAST! UNION COLLEGE SOCIAL COMMITTEE * CAMP WESTERN. UNION * -1' SATURDAY, MAY 23, 1981- * West College Lawn 12 noon to 6 pm -1< A(hilles Rink 9 pm • 1 am Produced in association with Neer Associates (617) 247-1630 : ·en~ .__. \ (CI Crisi: has c ' third direc SUCCE say chan1 COIDI De: the c blarr fede1 misii fede1 ·worn now era\ Th dras1 least the r +1 strai spor1 stop base gym +~ Cali drop and +I to sa mov leag· trav' +: of C pay stud out dep~ At Bart shoe pro) athl Frru are futu red1 gyrr. \chi Rya has \( Rya Cc Edd \op· eve1 Cro pro swil alsc tra, sidE fee~ c Titl Am sou of fun disc sex fore ath WOI an< tre1 WOl OUJ per \ na~ BU Wa \It wit IX, tra 1 rw ou1 Co: rai pri thE wil foi

OONOORDIENSIS, May 81, 1981 Page 11 End oi an Era, ' NCAA Sports Crisis Game lntramura I Softba 11 1 ' A 1 ' League Pla.yoff Picture 1--Shoestrings vs. Dipstick 2--Faculty vs. Rookies (CPS) - The Great Money Crisis of. intercollegiate sports has deepened as it enters its third year, and ,now atbletic directors at even relatively successful sports departments say they see fundamental changes in the way colleges compete as inevitable. Despite NCAA contentions to the contrary, sports directors blame in,flation, state and federat budget cuts, fiscal mismanagement and the federally,mandated funding of women's sports for what they now refer to as \the end of an era\ in college atnletics. The maladies have already drastically altered programs at least a dozen campuses. Among the recent casualties: +The University of Colorado, straining under a $1.6 million sports department deficit, has stopped funding wrestling, baseball, swimming and gymnastics. +The University of California-Berkeley has dropped wrestling, volleyball, and golf from its sports list. +Michigan State, in an effort to save its hockey program, bas moved its team to a different league, which requires less travel. +Stadents at the University of Oregon recently agreed t1> pay an extra $20 per year student activity fee to help bail out tbeil' ailing athletic department. At Yale~ where President A. Bartlett Giamatti last year shocked the Ivy League .by proposing to de-emphasize athletics~ Athl~tic Director- Frank Ryan says no new cuts are planned in the immediate future. But Yale recently reduced volleyball, men's gymnastics and water polo to \club status,\ which means Ryan's department no longer has to fund them. \Out\ situation is stable,'' Ryan now says. Colorad() Athletic Director Eddie Crowder is similarly \optimistic we'll have a break- even budget.\ But to get there, Crowder has had to drop m~j!l::r programs like baseball, swimming and wrestling. It has also in.creased ticket prices~ cu:t travel allowances, and coll- sidered raising student activity fees. Crowder blames inflation and Title IX of the Higher Education Amendments of 1973 as the sources of his troubles. Title IJC, of course, forbids federally- funded institutions from discriminating on the basis of sex, and has had the effect of forcing schools to provide equal athletic opportunities f()r woman. c'The costs for travel and equipment are up tremendously, and the cost of women's sports have increased our expenditures about ZO percent,'' Crowder points ou.t. \We dropped men's gym' nastics·over the summer,\ adds Bill Cc>rds, athletic director at Washington State University. \It was a hard thing to do, but with the requirements of Title IX, inflation, and increased travel costs, we had to do it-\ The cutbacks also prompted rumorsWSU would have to drop out of the PAC-10 conference. Cord denies it. WSU will soon raise its basketball ticket prices, and then, Cords says, the univ~rsity sports pi'ogran~ will be '£in pretty good sb:ape\ for the time being. But ~he very idea of college athletic departments going through such rapid, involuntary changes would have been un- thinkable several years ago. Today, they're just a pr~muse of more changes to come. · \If costs continue to in- crease,\ says Jack Lengyel, associate, athletic director at the University ofMt$souri, \y()u , eventually reach a breaking point.\ others like Cords figure budgets can only be trimmed so much, ticket prices raised so high, and programs cut back so far before fundamental cnanges must be made. \We're going to have to change the concept of sports as we see them today;'' Lengyel predicts-. 1 'We must address the economics of the pr()blem on a national level.\ HE suggests \streamlining\ men's and women''\.teams. F()r ,example, he sees one tennis team with both men and women, instead of two separate teams.\ But the place m()st athletic directors look to for help \on a national level\ - the NCAA (National Collegiate Athletic Association) -- insists the budget crisis is more imagined than real. \We've seen a lot .of articles on programs being ellininated,\ says NCAA spokesman David Seifert, \but our survey results show that sponsorship bas actually increased.'' In 1980, ·the organization surveyed its members and \found increased sponsorship at all membership levels. We had expected to see growth in _ women's sports, but frankly were surprised to see increased men's sponsorship,\ Seifert explains. The survey shows 664 women's sports programs created since 1978-79, while ollly 285 were dropped. The survey reports that 238 men's sports programs were dropped in the same period, but that 369 have been added. While acknowledging budget problems, Serfert believes \the misperception (of their seriousness) is due to the publicity of programs dropped, while there is little coverage of programs that are added.\ In 1978, he adds, the NCAA changed its membership criteria, requiring schools to sponsor more sports to main- tain their divisi()n statuses. Some school officials say the . new criteria, not budgetary health, explain the NCAA survey results. Harvard, for iru3tance, met the requirements by adding two varsity sports. \Our volleyball and water polo teams were doing so well at club status that we decided to advance them,'' says a Harvard spokesman. ''But they are both partially self-supporting, and require very little assistanoee (form the athletic department).\ California State Univers1ty- Fullerton \added track and cross country to our sports program,'' says Athletic Director Mike Mullally, ''but it was out of necessity to maintain our Division 1-AA standing.\ Despite the added programs, \We're operating on an ab- solute shoestring budget,\ Mullally says. \It's been really tough. I just ho~ the NCAA changes that rule, which never has worked anyway.\ Mullally hints NCAA mem· bers may try to force the grOU:P to confront the budget crlSlS more directly. \The NCAA is nothing more than tbe ad- ministrative body that represents its members,\ he . summarizes. \We are .the NCAA, and- I think we need to remember that. It's up to us to help ourselves, to streamline things, and decide what needs to be done.\ 3--Chi Psi \A\ vs. Winner ()f Game 1 4--Sig Chi Blue vs. Winner of Game 2 5--Beavers vs. Winner of Game 3 6--ZBT ''Au vs. Winner of Game 4 CHAMP I.ONSH I·P Winner ·Of Game 5 vs. Winner of Game 6 Union Sports Ba~quet - Dancing Afterwards at the Edisoq Clu~.this Friday, May 22 For tickets contact Athletic Dept. Union Sailing Future Bright By GEOFF YOUNGMAN ~- The Union College Yacht Racing Association ended its second season of intercollegiate sailing on a positive note. They did well in the Engineer's Cup at W~bb Institute on Long Island two weeks ago, and at the Freshman Championships last weekend at Kings Point. At Webb, the four sailors~ Joe COsUlich with Jon ~tney as crew, and Geoff Youngman and John Manuel _trading off positions, hoped to improve their fourth place finish ()f a year ago. Upon arrival, they found a much different regatta than they had sailed in the previous year, with many more schools there this year. That Saturday proved to be a strange day of sailing with very light winds in the morning gradually giving way to a full blow by early afternoon. Thra inclement -~ 'V'\ Union Sailors in Competition weather drove the sailers to shore after only four races had been finished. On Sunday, Mother Nature was more generous, with a crisp breeze and sunny sides greeting the sailors._ Witll a backdrop of more than fifty sloops flying colorful spinnakers, the Union sailors £aired well against the heavy competitim. At regatta's end, the combined scores of the Aand B teams.f<lr Union placed them in another fourth place ·finish. This was seen as an improvement over last year, because of the fiercer com- petition. The four Union freshman who journeyed do}Vll to Kings Point this past weekend for the Fresh- man Champi()nships, :were virtually untested in in- tercollegiatE racing. Jon Whitney, who skippered for the A division was the only one with any experience, -and this was his D'Andrea . .• Continued from page 3 run off to give welcoming remarks to the local C()unselors or show the movie to the local alumni club. There is a lack of serenity to the job. C: What do you see as the biggest problem that you have \to face here at Union r D' A: Well, it's really Union's biggest problem and that is how are we going to manage in the 80's when v.re know things ar~ not looking good. In terms of students that are going to be available to us, inflation, energy costs, those things are frightening. If your goal is, as mine is, to see the institution improve, you. have to improve the quality of the faculty and student population. This is going to be difficult when more first attempt at skippering. Ge()ffrey Tyre was his crew, with Joe Bernstein crewing fDr Roberta Stein in the B division. De;Spite their inexperience the Union sailors did wen. ending in seventh after the first day of sailing. On Sunday they im- proved from seventh to sixth place out of a field · of ten schools. The sailors also logged up a few thirds and fourths on the second day of sailing to bring them up another place. This unexpected showing by the freshman added an unrealized depth to the team as a whole, and makes the picture for neld \ year very bright. · The sailors hope to start an instructional course in sailing and racing for the Union C9llege populous next fall, with the assistance of RPI. If interested, call Geoff at 346-2468, or Chris at 37~-6480. and more of the brighter people are going off into other areas tbat are more lucrative so that the number of high quality faculty available is diminished. And with students, if we try to ._wntinue to maintain a first rate 'ftude~ bod,y while the population is declining, that will I:Je·some trick. Those I see as the problems. >- J:: a. \.. ::;) ~ ttl fJ) fJ) a; ~ >- .0 0 - 0 J:: a..

Page 1.2 OONOOBD11i1N8IS •. May B1 1 1981 1.. C1l s::: 1.. C1l ..J C1l > C1l .... tl) >. .c 0 .... 0 -a .. ~~-~~ Loxmen Finish on Winning Note Laxmen battle in front of net. Upward Swing: By STEVE MYERS As the regularly scheduled season drew to a close, the Dutchmen faced their fin<il opponent upon home turf, the stickers from Albany State. Last year, the Union team visited Albany; however, with lethargic and poorly executed play, Union was unable to surpass State in the remaining moments of the fourth quarter as Albany captured the victory, 15-14. Now the -Gamet team wished to avenge that nagging loss and display a strong finish to a year blemished with Intramural Program at Union By KARL STEIDL AND KEITH DEAN The Intramural department has almost completed. its first year under head director Tom Colette, and as he has big plans for Union Intramurals, he has had to overcome some obstacles and changes, therefore leading to a change in the program itself. When Colette first came to Union, he felt that in order to improve the program, he should install a forfeit rule, which means that if a team forfeits two games, they lose. .. meir deposit of $10, and the 101lowing term, if member5 of the 'past forfeiting te3Wplay on another team that term, their deposit is doubled. A forfeit is considered one oftwo things. The first is if a team does not show up to a game without prior notice to the intramural department, the game is not played. The second is if the scqres are not reported within 2t hours, the game is forfeited by both teams. This is a problem though, for a losing team will not report the score, and if the winning team does not report it within jh'e set time, both te~·receive forfeits, even though the game was played and there was a winner. Next year Collete plans to have either the referee or wnpire report the score, or make it m~ndatory. for the winning team to report it. Again we run into a p..-oblem though, for most intranu1ral sports played do not have referees present, and the team.s have to make their own calls. Next year Collete plans to organize ·in advance, to rna}te sure referees are presf!nt. Arid also lie will have each frater- nity, sorority-, and independent team. havtJ an intramural director who will be responsible for tl:le scores, who Collete will be in constant contact with. other problems Colette has had to deal with, are the limited field, court, and ice space, time, equipment, schedule changes, and l~ck of information in the intramural office. \Vitll tbe problem of space, if games do have to be rescheduled, there usually is no OPEn field or court to make up the gcune, while in hockey and brCJomball, it was almost im- po~sii:Jle to reschedule a game. Equipment is also a problem, or shClul~ it be said the lack of eq:uiJ)ment. For example, in softball teams will often come outt() the playing fiel.d to find no bases C>r no bats, while in brClomball, there are no brooms given out by the department, an.d :111aybe there should be. Also there were many instances of ~caedllle changes resulting in prClblcems, forfeits, or make-up games if lucky, that were due to poor organization on the part of the intramural department. The main problem resides in organization. This winter 70 broomball teams and 10 hockey teams played their games on limited ice time, which' meant the games were 45 minutes long (instead of last year's one~hour games) and each team only played 4 or 5 games before the playoffs. Next year there will be only a fall hockey le~gue with a ten-game schedule, plus possibly a best two-out-of-three series play for the playoffs. The winter term ice play will be devoted entirely to broomball, with at least a seven-game schedule for each team, and a much more organized women's league evolving. Next year the intramural program will be 100 percent better, as there will be much more publicity, with ad- vertisements in ,concordy, WRUC spots, and an intraxpural bulletin board in Carnegie. As Tom Colette said, \I made a lot of mistakes this year, but I am going to put my time in. My goal is to upgrade the intramural prograin, and not to go through the motions.\ So, the in- tramural program does have some kinks, but some of the problems are being rectified, and if more events can be like the boxing tournament, Colette will fulfill his prophecy. defeats. The first half of the game, Union ·dominated. Excellent defense and goal tending, frequent ball control in. regards to face-offs and ground balls, and a well manipulated offense led to a Dutchman halftime lead of 10..1. When the two teams met after their btief rest,. Albany State appeared to be on the move as Union's lead shrunk by several goals. The Garnet team ·battled .hard to keep their lead at all cost, managing to __ hold it by five goals well through the third quarter and into the fourth. Time running down for the Albany State team, Union regathered its composure and continued to rule by five. The season's clock out of time, the Dutchmen celebrated, winning their last game, 15-10. Scoring throughout the game was led by Captain Sean Durham with six goals, flanked by several others with various contributions; Jim Wright with three, Marc Marro and Dave Schumann each with two, and Don Beall and- defenseman-captain Rob Fisch- mann with one each. The Union laxmen finished. out their season with a record of 4-11, · A non-seasonal grune,. played this past weekend, was technically the last time these laxmen would be playing .for Union College this year, the Ahunni- game. A strong showing. of returning alumni, along with the aid of the graduating seniors, Rob Fischmann and Mark Sackerson, challenged the remaining core of this year's team, minus a few players. Always a traditional' rivalry fought at the end of the season·, the participants enjoyed a pleasant game, with the alumni taking the win, 10-6. Next year, with hopeful recruiting prospects and experienced veterans, the stickers are looking to a more. promising season with smart and skilled play. U,pcoming Events Men's or Women's Cycle Race (circle one) Entries due: May 21 Name: Phone No.: Organization (if any): Play Begins: May 22 Men's or Co-reel Canoe Jousting {circle one) Entries due: May 28 Name·: Phone no.: Organization (if any): Play Begins: May29 Women's Jogging Meet Entries due: May 21 Play begins: May/22 Name: Phone no.: Organization .(if any): Women's Foosball Entries Due: May 27 Play Begins: May 28 Name: Phone no.: Organization (if any): Women's Horseshoes Entries Due: May 28 Play Begins: May29 Name: Phone no.: Organization .(if any): c P--------------------~----------------------------------~ Rookies player Jim Josephson even1ually bobbled this ball allowing Sig Chi Blue to secure the victory. Softball Standings A league Red Division WLG Zeta Beta Tau A 7 1 Chi Psi A 6 2 1 Shoestringers 4 4 3 Delta Phi A 3 3 4 Cliff Hangers 0 B 7 Delta Upsilon 0 9 7112 Alpha Delta Phi 0 9 7 1 12 Blue Division Beavers 8 0 - Sigma Chi Blue 6 0 Rookies 6 3 2112 Dip. Sticks 4 4 4 Fa<;ulty 3 2 5 Delta Chi Men 1 6 7 Theta Delta Chi A 0 7 8,.,. Beta Bombers 0 9 9 B League Ywllow Division Orange Division WFYL PSK Red 8 0 - Smythe B Paws 8 0 - Sigma Chi Gold Sigma Phi 8 1 1f2 FijiC Davidson 6 3 2 1 12 Zeta Beta Tau B Rangers 0 10 9 Happy Peop.le Beta Bombers 0 10 9 Trojans Sweatsox 0 10 9 Gleason's Funeral Kappa Sigma 0 10 9 Home Phi Delta Theta B 0 10 9 Delta Upsilon B Fiji S 0 10 9 Psi Upsilon Bush League Batters 0 10 9 Psi Upsilon Delta Chi Dogs Green Division Agents of Mu Saratoga T&L Fly Balls Holy Trojans Fiji B Third Floor Fox Southern Knights Chi PsiB PSKBeer Commandos 10 0 8 2 2 8 2 2 6 4 4 5 5 5 3 7 7 0 10 10 0 10 10 0 10 10 0 10 10 -- 9 1 7 1 6 2 6 3 5 3 5' 2 4 3 0 10 0 10 0 10 0 10 0 10 - 1 3 3 4 4 5 9 9 9 9 9 Vc - [ 1 A I of Ec co su be co an ho de ho St: w Bi at: M Ri so pr m to th Cc C< bE Sc Al si C( m c) u G PI fu ol aJ pt

VoL llO, No. 25 Don Spring will serve as Dean of Students for Academic Year 1981-82. At Commencement: 1877 Thursday, May 28, 1981 Interim Dean Appointed By PAUL GROSSMAN Last Tuesday President Morris announced that Prof. Don Spring will act as interim Dean of Students for the academicyearl981-82. Spring is a member of the psychology department and also works in Career Counseling and Placement. Prof. Spring will be replacing Robert Kellett who will leave office at the end of June. Prof. Rudy Nydegger of the psychology department will. act as the 'head of the search conimittee whose responsibility will be to look for possible candidates for the position of Dean of Students. President Morris has acted very deliberately following Dean Kellett's resignation. The President's decision to move slowly on replacing Kellett reflects the importance that Morris places on the position. Prof. Spring has been appointed presumably for the full academic year; a permanent replacement for Dean Kellett is not expected until the end of next year. President Morris feels that the selection process should be handled with care, something that might be sacrificed if the appointment of a new dean were rushed. There were two major reasons cited for the decision to fill .. the position only after long and careful review. One of the reasons was the President Morris feels that the nature of the position should be studied. It is not certain that the duties of the next Dean will be the same as those of the past Dean. By taking a full year to review the situation,. a careful .study of the .position can and will be un- dertaken. In the event that certain responsibilities of the job are shifted or altered, these changes would have to be dealt with prior to the selection of the new dean. The other reason cited by the President's office for the delay in naming the new dean is that the President feels strongly about student involvement in the procedure. Reiterating that it is a search, not a selection committee that was being formed, the Pt·esident's office pointed out the obvious dif- ficulties involved in having students on a search committee over the summer. The fact that the proposed process of finding a new dean may take some time apparently does not bother the President, who apparently feels that going through the process slowly and carefully will yield tn~ best results. Vice President of Administration and Finance John R. Hauser has been ap- pointed administrative representative to the com- mittee. Other members of the committee are to be announced. Educator to Address Grads Jack ·w. Peltason, president of the American Council on Education, will deliver the commencement address SUnday, June 14. Peltason will be honorary chancellor for the commencement ceremonies and will be awarded an honorary Doctor of Letters degree. The College will also award honorary degrees to New York State Senate Majority Leader Warren M. Anderson (R- Binghamton), former area athlete and coach Sigmund Makofski, surgeon and author Richard A. Selzer, and mezzo soprano Betty Allen. Union will award ap- proximately 631 bachelor's and master's degrees and 3 doc- torates in ceremonies marking the commencement of the College's 187th year. Th-e commencement program_ begins at 10 a.m. on the Schenectady campus. Peltason, president of the American Council on Education since 1977, has been both a college teacher and ad- ministrator. He is currently chancellor emeritus of the University of illinois at Urbana- Champaign, where he previously served as chancellor for 10 years, dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, and associate professor of political science. . He has also taught at the University of Missouri, Prin- ceton University, and Smith College, and he is a former vice chancellor for academic affairs at the University of California at Irvine. He is a graduate of the University of Missouri, receiving his doctorate from Princeton. A member or trustee of a number of educational organizations, Peltason is the author of eight books, including A Student Guide to. Campaign Politics (1970), Understanding the Constitution {1979), _and Government by the People (1980). He and his wife, the former Suzanne Toll, reside in Washington, D.C. They have three children. Warren Anderson, a native of Bainbridge, N.Y., was elected in H)52 to the Senate seat for- mel\ly held by his father, Floyd Anderson, who resigned to accept appointment to the State Supreme Court. Warren Anderson assumed leadership of the Senate in 1973, after serving seven years as chair- man of the Finance Committee. A strong supporter of higher edu.cation, Anderson was a principal architect of the Tuition Assistance Program and the new Tuition Tax Deduction Plan. A graduate of Colgate University and Albany Law School, Anderson is currently a partner in the firm of Hinman, Howard and Kattell, in Binghamton. He and his wife, Eleanor, reside in Binghamton, and they have four sons. The College will award Anderson an honorary Doctor of Laws degree. Sigmund ''Sig\ Makofski, a Schenectady native and a 1926 Union graduate, is one of the outstanding athletes in the history of Union College and a legend in high school basket- ball. He was an All-American football and basketball player at the College and was later named in a newspaper poll as the greatest all-around athlete in the history of the Capital District. A.s a basketball coach, :Makofski has compiled a record of 461 wins and 35 losses, included six undefeated seasons. He is an accomplished golfer, a former athletic director at Mont Pleasant High School, artd he served on the Schenectady City Council and on the city's Municipal Housing Authority. He and his wife, the fonner Barbara Reed, live in Clearwater, Fla. Makofski will receive an honorary Doctor of Pedagogy degree from Union. Surge~\'n and noted author ' Richard Selzer is a native of Troy and a 1948 Union graduate. He also received degrees from Albany Medical College and Yale University. Since 1960, he has practiced surgery in New Haven, Conn., where he is on the faculty of theY ale School of Medicine. Selzer's books, which have won critical acclaim, are Rituals of Surgery (1974), Mortal Lessons: Notes on the Art of Surgery (1977), and Confessions of a Knife (1979). He has also published numerous stories and articles and, in 1975, he received a National Magazine Award. Selzer and his wife, the former Janet R. White, live in New Haven. They have three children. Continued on page 9 -· Rudy Nyedegger, who will chair the\ search committee for the position of Dean of Students Freshmen Data Released The Admissions Office reports that as of Friday, ·May 15,517 students have enrolled in the class of 1985. For a class of 510 students, allowing for at- trition over the summer, it is estimated that about 540 students should enroll, ac- cording to Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid Kenneth A. Nourse. Forty students who have been accepted have yet to reply to the College . Information available on this year's admissions process includes the following: -The College received a total of 3,250 applications for the class of 1985. This is 100 fewer than last year, when Union received a record 3,360 ap- plications. Before that, the largest number of applications received was 3,044 in 1977-78. -To get a freshman class of 510, the College initially ac- cepted 1,330 students (about 40 percent of those who applied) and then chose another 70 from a waiting list of 340. Nourse says . he went to the waiting list \by design.\ Students on the waiting list are qualified to do the work at Union and by agreeing to remain on the list, ~ r ~,. they have indicated their desire to attend, Nourse says. -Of the initia11,330 accepted, Continued on page 2 Kenneth Nourse, Dean of Admissions, expects 540 students to enroll for the ~lass of 1985

Page 2 OONOORDIEN8IS, May 88, 1981 This photo makes it obvious that alcohol is aA accepted part of life at Union College. Campus Van dais Lots of alcohol was consllffied on campus this weekend. And somebody threw a car into Hans Groot's Kill. Those two facts may seem unrelated, but they may not be. Accprding to Cliff Wood, Chief of Security on campus, the campus lost \trees flowers, and many windows ... and we don't lose these during normal time.\ \Normal time\ according to Wood, is a weekend dllring which there \aren't so many parties within such a short span of time.\ From Thursday to Saturday there were no fewer than eleven all-campus picnics, ,parties, and beer blasts. The automobile which had been pushed into the creek sometime during the weekend belongs to a full-time commuter student. The owner of the car, which sustained $1,500 worth of Wood has called for .a \better scheduling system, something that. will prevent having three and four parties at a time.\ The Chief of Security would like . anyone who has any in- formation concerning any acts of vandalism this weekend to call him at 37()..6178., Chris Chadwick is a sergeant on Wood's force. He issues a word of caution to those members of the community who are likely · to conclude that alcohol causes vandalism. All that has been shown so far,. he maintains, is that a correlation between the two exists. At this point in time, howeve_r, the security force does not have the resources to conduct a study of alcohol and vandalism. Chadwick warns that we have to be \very careful\ not to con- clude that alcohol comsumption induces vandalism. A weekend like last calls for extreme care. Asbestos Finally Removed =~tw•• ~·•Uabl• for By NAOMI BLANK meeting, Environmental Jack J. Hill, Director of s e rv I c e H 0 n 0 red During the summer, the asbestos ceilings in Fox and Davidson dorms will be removed and replaced with tile at a cost of approximately $500,000. Following necessary guidelines, all work will be completed . by September 2, 1981. At the January Trustee Technology, Inc. (En Tech) Campus Operations explained \recommended removal over that work on the ceilings will encapsulation.\ EnTech wrote begin on June 17 and must be the specifications and selecte? a completed by August 26. Once group of contractors. Uruon inspected, the \final checklist\ then sent a copy of these must be completed by Sep- specifications to these con- tember 2. \All work,\ Hill tractors. A meeting about pre- added, ''is being done in full bidding was held Wednesday, compliance of the Environ- May 27, but bidding will not mental Protection Agency and begin until June 3. the Occupational Safety and Administration guidelines.'' Another Record Starting work on June 17 allows two days for the removal of most of the loose items in the buildings. Due to the work, Dave Wood has advised students to move all personal furniture from the rooms before summer. Both Fox and Davidson dorms will be closed to anyone wishing to enter during this time, and the work areas will be partitioned off. ., On the nights of May 4 -.May 7, 177 students manned forty telephones and secured 1,494 definite pledges. for $43,850.99, an all-time student · phonathon record. This broke the 'mark of $38,612, which had been set in the spring of 1979. Special thanks are extended to all the callers and especially to the Student Phonathon Committee which consisted of Bob Berlin '81, Rich Hope '81, John Jarosak '82, Seth Men- delowitz '82, John Montanile '82, Debbie Rudolph '82, and Karen Greaves '84. Individual prize winners were: Pete Conese, Roseann Miller, Bob Brewster, Andy Starkman, Barry Tils, Linda Ziman, George Romas, and Joanne Stein. Prizes may be picked up in my office (3rd floor, Lamont House). Team winners were: Brew's Crew (Captain, Bob Brewster) and The Third Dimension (Captain, Liz Catalano). Congratulations to everyone who participated and thanks very much for your help. The Class of 1985 Continued from page 1 . the breakdown by intended major is as follows: 41 in humanities, 225 in social sciences, 190 in science, 335 in engineering and computer science, 283. in liberal arts- undecided, 217 in premed, 29 for the six-year medical program, and 10 for the six-year law program. The admissions staff made a conscious effort to achieve a better balance among the College's four divisions, Nourse says, taking into ac- count the traditional \yield\- the percentage of accepted students who enroll-in each area. Nourse says he expects the overall yield for the class of 1985 to be about 37 percent; i.e., 37 percent of those students ac- cepted will enroll. This is about the same as last year. Two years ago, however, the College accepted 57 percent of those who applied and 31 .percent enrolled, while the year before that, 60 percent of those who applied were accepted and 28 percent enrolled. Nourse would eventually like the yield to be 40 percent. A higher yield, he says, \suggests that you're getting more selective. We're trying to take fewer students and get more of those we take, but this gets harder as costs go up and the number of students goes down.\ In attempting to select those students who have a strong desire to attend Union, Nourse continues to stress the on~ campus interview. From July 1, 1980, to February 1, 1981, the admissions staff interviewed about 3,000 students. While an interview is not required, it is \expected Nourse says. Another important part of the admissions selection process, according to Nourse, is choosing a diverse student body; diverse in terms of geographic distribution, high school background, special talents and skills, a.nd academic · interests. Nourse reports that while the majority of next year's freshmen will be coming from schools in the Northeast, for example, such states as California, Minneosta, Texas, Florida, Ohio, and Virginia will also be represented. , Looking to next year, Nourse says he hopes to enroll more early decision candidates- students who have made Union their first choice and who agree to attend if accepted-by moving the early decision deadline from November 15, 1981, to February 1, 1982, the final deadline for all ~p­ plications. Early decision candidates will still be notified within a few weeks of applying, but this way Nourse feels he may attract students who ex- press an interest in Union in December or January and who otherwise would have missed The ceilings· will be replaced by twelve inch square acoustic tiles. These tiles will be fire retardant.Foxand Davidson will not be painted this summer because of the removal. • • • the chance to apply under the early decision program. Nourse indicates he will also make more use of the alumni admissions network, made up of those alumni who have agreed to act as local admissions representatives. He hopes to add representatives in such cities as Philadelphia, Washington, D.C., Chicago, and Detroit. There are. currently alumni admissions coordinators in Dallas, Denver, Fort Worth, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami· Fort Lauderdale, Minneapolis- St. Paul, New Orleans, San Antonio, San Diego, and San Francisco. The Library hours from the last day of classes through Spring Term examination period and commencement weekend are: · Thurs., June 4- Fri., June 5-- 8:30 a.m.-11:·00 p.m. Sat., June 6-Sun., June 7-- 9:00 a.m.-11:00 p.m. Mon., June 8-Tues., June 9-- 8:3U a.m.-11:00 p.m. Wed., June 10--8:30 a.m.- 5:00p.m. Thurs., June 11-Sat ., June 13--9:00 a.m.-5:00p.m. Sun., June 14--Ciosed The Night Study will close when the Library closes, starting Thurs., June 11 at 5:00p.m. Members of the College community retiring this year and those who have completed 25 years at Union will be honored Friday, June 19, at the annual Employee Recognition Luncheon. This year's program will begin at noon at the Holiday Inn, Nott Terrace. All interested members of the campus community are invited to attend. The cost is $6.35 per person, and reservations should be made by June 11 with George Richards, director of personnel. This year's retirees include Irma Hamilton, Arts Depart- ment executive assistant for programs; Clarence · F. Goodheart, professor of elec- trical engineering and com- puter science; Edwin F. Gillette, professor of mathematics; Stanley T. LeRoy, engineering assistant; W. Loretta Walker, head of information services at Schaffer Library; Annie Sweet, History Department secretary; Joseph Choiniere, machine lab; Thomas Flynn and William Paszeski, security; and John Young, Madeline Bailey, and Helen Banasiak from the physical plant. Those who have completed 25 years at the College are Ennis Pilcher, professor of physics; Edward J. Craig, professor of electrical engineering and computer science and chairman of the department; and James Moore, William Zarzycki, and William Crandell from the physical plant. Final Examination Schedule Additions, Deletions, Changes Mon., June 8, 8:30-10:30 a.m.--Freshman Elective 24·- Perspectives of the Modern Mind-· Tharsing--SS113· Mon., June 8, 8:30-10:30 a.m.--Chemistry 40-- Quanti tative Chern is try .. Werner--SS016 Wed., June 10, 2-4 p.m.-- Psychology 10--A First Course in Psychology--Hunfley •. Py. 102 Wed., June 10, 2-4 p.m.--C.S. 18--lntroduction to Computer Organization--Sec. 1-- Goodheart--HU 115 Wed., June 10, 2-4 p.m.--C. E. 160-- Transportation Engineering-- BU 106 Mon., June B, 8:30-10:30 AM.. f!f.~ a.m.--ADD English 22--Major American Authors: The American Rena issahce-- Wineapple,,py Hl2 Tues., June 9--8:30-10:30 a.m.--ADD Economics 51-- Environmental Economics-- Kenney--QC; English 77--The American Novel 111-- Wineapple--HU 114 Tues., June 9, 8:30-10:30 a.m.--DELETE History 82 (The Development of Modern Medicine--Dawson--HU 019) No exam! Tues., June 9, 2-4 p.m.-- DELETE Freshman Elective 16 (Health and Healing: Historical Perspectives on Current Medical Issues-- . Dawson--55 014) No exam! 1115 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY PHONE 377-2642 or 382-8684 Homestyle Italian Cooking Salad Bar Included with All Pasta & All Dinners Reasonable prices Plus a 1 0% Discount to Union College Students with IDs Banquet Facilities I I - ] otl fot at EC: hil w~ no kn sh so th lel ju m to of gt Cll w: m R m st yc gl de de fr r1 is A J si jE a d a tl p g h n t

Education: A Shot By DAVKKA.PLAN 1 ran inte a friend of mine the other day who's now working for the Reagan Administration at the Department ' of Education. After· he brushed himself off, I .asked him what he was doing lately. \I'm worldng on handguns, now. Ws a big problem, you know, what with aU the shootings, 'trying to formulate some sort of plan to cut down on the violence without gun-control legislation.\ \It seems to me that that's just about impossible,\ I mused, resisting the temptation to ask just why the Department of Education was involved in guns in the first place. \How can you stop handgun violence without trying to reduce the number of guns at large?\ \It's obvious that you are not Reagan Administration material,\ he snorted, and shook his head. \If you were, you'd realize that taking away guns .is about the most hazar- dous thing you could possibly do.\ I was confused, and- I told my friend so. lie offered to explain. \The whole concept behind reducing the handgun violence is based on what we in the Administration call the Jellybean Dilemma. Quite simply, if A has a bunch of jellybeans and B can't afford any, but B has a rock and A doesn't, we have our basic armed conflict problem. Now, there are two ways to solve the problenl. One way would be to give B some jellybeans and hope he'll go away.\ . \That sounds fair,\ I said, ''and you'd also stop any un- necessary bloodshed.\ My friend's face turned bright red, and I could sense that he was valiantly trying to control his emotions. \It's talk like that that would put American industry out of business. Who's going to buy jellybeans if he knows ~hat he's just going to have to g1ve some up when some guy with a rock comes along?\ ''So what do we do?\ \Simple: we give A a rock, too. That way, he has an even chance to defend his beans. B either gets a rock in hiS skull or no beans. Either way, A wins.\ \But what if B hits A first,\ I asked not following his logic at all. At my question, he smiled - delightedly. \You've- hit precisely upon the major problem of the Jellybean Dilemma. Common crooks know how to handle guns CONCORDY NEEDS WRITERS! Anyone interested should contact Rachel or Paul Box 2517 OONOORDIENSJS, May 28, 1981 Page 3 features • the Arm I Students Assaulted l In better . tt)an iaw-a biding jellybean-~arning citizens. And that is where my job comes in. I'm part of a massive gUll educatiorr and distribution program.\ \Distribution! Wbat on earth f '?\ ' - or. \To follow our analogy,\ he explained patient1y, as if to a sligbtly retarded fox terrier, \what we want to do is to giveso many rocks to the A's of the country, -and show them Ute right way to throw them, that theB'sjustdon'thave a chance. So the Administration figuves that since children are the best learners, we start handgUll training in the elementary schools.\ , \But you can't give a loaded gun to a first-g.rader,\ I protested. \You'll have kids shooting each other over, well, jellybeans.\ \Of course not, we're not stupid, you know. The child doesn't receive ammunition until he or she has passed oar rigorous examination at tile completion of the third grade. Until then, the kid is just ,given blanks, to get a feel for tile weight of the gun. \The whole problem 'Witll handgun violence today is that the criminal relies on the fact that you haven't got a gun. It has nothing to do with social factors. Now, can you picture a potential child-kidnapper coming up to one of our trained kids? 'Little girl, you want to come witil me?' he'll say. 'I'll buy you lots of candy.' At this, the kid recognizes this pitch from class, pulls out a Saturday Night Special, and blows . the pervert away. Nobody will dare to mess with a youngster again,'' \Not even his parents,\ I mumbled, as I slumped in my chair. \Look he said, with not a little exasperation in his voice, \if we don't learn how to gun down outlaws, the only people who'll be a:ble to use guns will be outlaws. By the way, how do you think that would look on a bumper .sticker?'' \Terrific I said. \But what happens when parents start complaining that they don't want to extol the virtues of killing to their child?\ \Oh well,\ my friend sighed confidently, \most parents would buckle under if their precious one came home in tears, bawling, 'Jimmy has a gun; Bobby has a gun; even Jane has a gun! I got to have one, too, Mon!\' By BRIAN QUINT Four weeks ago yesterday, four Union College Washington Interns were robbed at gunpoint in their D.C. apartment com- plex. Among some of the Washington students, the burglary has raised some questions about the selection of- that complex, as well as the security measures inside the building. The incident occurred at about 10:50 p.m. on April29, at the W oodner complex, a group of buildings several miles from Capitol Hill. The four students, who have asked not to be named, were in the apartment of two of the interns at the time. According to one of the victims, there were three robbers who gained access to the room when the door was opened and one of the thieves pointed a gun at an intern and ordered her to let them in. The students were then tied up, blindfolded and ordered to reveal where their money and jewelry was. Several cameras were also stolen in the incident. In the words of one _of the involved interns, \both parties were nervous.\ The apartment was then ransacked for other items. After the thieves left, the interns were soon able to untfe themselves and call security personnel. Washington police · have not announced any arrests Blue Skies Ove·r ·Union By D. BOOTH Thus far in my articles I have avoided touching on the issae of seduction, nay, the art of seduction, only because it is a subject so delicate, an art S<l difficulty balanced, that any advice upon the subject migilt fall short of the incredible reality. It is important to remeiilber the definition of seduction; It is no less than the total subjection of mind, body, and soul to tile fantasy of another's creation. Each of these parts must be covered, first separately, then as a whole. The mind is really the crux of the matter. First th-e subject of one's advances must be titillated, excited enough to want to be seduced. The classical seduction has traditionally begun with a small intimate dinner for two in his bachelor rooms. To be sure, tile classical approach with can- dlelight, soft music, roving hands, · and climatic music is effective, yet I am advocating a slightly different approach. It is my cDntention that the best approach for a seduction is to amaze them with yo11r originality, remembering that it is the little things which count. For example, invite her over felr · some honey in the comb. Very few people have ever had hcney . in the comb, making it a new and exciting sensory e:x- perien~e. The honey is golden, dripping slowly away from tbe spuon as it is erected towards her waiting mouth. Honey in the comb is properly eaten by plunging the spoon into the comb and pulling out the sticky mess;-- wax and all. It is then placed in the mouth, and kept there until the wax is Sllcked dry. The taste from the comb is far richer- than from the bottle, its taste a well known erotic stimulant (I refer the reader to the etymology of honeymoon). The mind having had its curiosity excited, the body mwt be stimulated. For those-- who are at a loss for stimulating a body, I must refer you to those books concerning erogenous zones. It seems to me that such things go without saying. This brings me to that final point, the subjugation of the soul .• This is that moment when suddenly it seems the day is less bright withoat your presence. I might a_dd that it is also . the most dangerous part of a seduction, tile possessing and responsibility for a soul. This is a moment of great ser-iousness. . It might in fact be better to only complete parts A and B of the aforementioned formula, making a seduction only casual sex, which is often much more fun. In conclusion, it seems likely that certain clods will continue to attempt seductions without the least understanding of its fine art aspect. Of course, practice makes perfect. Summer Plans This summer, while we students work as camp counselors~ salespeople, lifeguards, maintenance people, etc., what will they, the faculty. be doing? A random sampling pr-ovided some an- swers to this important question! Said Professor Weick of Chemistry, \'I'll be here at Union this summer doing research.'' 'I'bis was a typical reply. Professor Hayes of Che · mistry : \I'll be writing publications of the works seniors did for their- theses. Also I'll be doing -work with a newly graduated student, Craig Williams, on Quantum Chemistry. And of course I'll be recovering from the school year.\ ·· Professor Baker of Philosophy:. ''I'll be on a National Science Foundation Grant, and will be living in the hospitals in New York City observing how physicians make decisions to discontinue live sustaining equipment, such as respirators.'' Professor Warde of Modern Lang11ages: \I'll be hard at work on two papers; one on Franz Kafka and the other on Goethe!' Professor Reece of Classics: \I will be trying to finish my book on the Flavian ·Emperors of Rome. \ Art Professor Bittleman said that he would \. . . be making prints, drawings, and paintings all summer from morning to night, seven days a week.'' ' Political Science Professor Board told us that he would \ ... be writing a chapter- of a book being compiled by someone else. I also plan to complete my own book on the limits of the welfare state in Sweden. I'm •tL<~o going to Sweden for three weeks to do further research, and also SQme trout fishing, which is really important. Chairman of Electrical Engin-eering and Computer Science, Professoi:' Craig told us that he would be\ ... teaching a math course, in pre-Calculus at Skidmore, and also a computer science course at Union-if it works out.\ . Professor Jewell, Professor of Civil Engineering: \I'll be giving two papers at two con· ferences. First at the Inter- national Symposium of Urban Storm Drainage at Ur-bana illinois and the second at the American Society of Engineering Education at their annual conference in Los Angeles. I'll also be starting to write a textbook on systems analysis.'; Have a good Sl111liiler! at this time. The intern group was then moved to a building closer to Capitol Hill, where according to Professor Clifford Brown, who is the faculty member with the interns, security is stric,:!tly enforced. All Union people involved noted that the college ..,was \very supportive\ and acted quickly to remove the students from the Woodner. The robbery has raised several issues. Some of the students complained that the security system in the building was dangerously lax. According to one intern, most of the rooms, including the one involved in the robbery, had no chain locks or peepholes, and that most anyone could enter the com- plex, due to lack of checking by the building management. The complex had many interns from many areas and the Union in- terns were not located in one spot in the building. Some of the students further charged that the neighborhood was unsafe and that monetary con- siderations played too much of a role in cho<>sing the complex for a residence. According to Charles Tid- march, the faculty advisor for next year's program, the Woodner was chosen from a list of several places and that the other choices were eliminated after it was apparent that a block of rooms for twenty students could not be found at all, or at an acceptable price. After a positive recommendation from the Washington Center for Learning Alternatives, another group who sends interns to D.C., Pr.ofessor Brown visited the complex and, according to Brown, it was found to be adequate. Tidmarcb contended that the area where the W oodner was located \was not one of the highest crime areas\ in Washington and that the location was \not a terrible neighborhoocl.\ He pointed out that buildings in the suburbs \may not have ready access to mass transit or willing to- ac- comodate twenty students.\ Amidst charges by some interns that the atmosphere was \tense \uninviting and \unsafe one student warned against ex:aggerating the situation, commenting that · \some people I've talked to made the neighborhood sound like the South Bronx.\ That same student, however, con- tended that ''-when you consider the kinds <>f people you saw in the building, you wondered why you were bere.\ Professor James Underwood, chairman of the Political Science department, acknowledged ''there's a certain risk, just like when you go to Greece and there are earthquakes, and that worries us,'' but that ''within the limits of cost considerations, we try to do the best we can do.\ ADDITIONAL STUDY SPACES FOR FINALS WEEK June 6-9 First Flo-or ClassroomS·· Humanities Building (except 110} 9 a.m.-11 p.m. First Flo-or Classrooms-- Social Science Building, 9 a.m.-11 p.m.

IENSIS~ May BB, 1981 College. Campus Vandals Lots of alcohol was consumed on campus tltis weekend. And somebody threw a car into Hans Groot's Kill. Those two facts may seem unrelated, but th~y may not be. Accprding to Cliff Wood, Chief of Security on campus, the campus lost \trees flowers, and many windows . . . and we don't lose these during normal time.\ \Normal time\ according to Wood, Is a weekend- during which there \aren't so many parties within such a short span of time.\ From Thursday to Saturday there were no fewer than eleven all-campus picnics~ parties; and beer blasts. The automobile which had been pushed into the creek sometime during· the weekend belongs to a full-time commuter student. The owner of the car, which sustained $1,500 worth of Wood has called for a ''better scheduling system, something that w,ill prev.ent having three and four parties at a time.\ 'The Chief of Security would like anyone who has any in- formation concerning any acts of vandalism this weekend to call him at 37()..6178~ Chris Chadwick is a sergeant on Wood's force. He issues a word of caution to those members of the community whe are likely· to conclude that alcohol causes vandalism, All that has been shown so far, he maintains, is that a correlation between the two exists. At this point in time, however, the security force does not have the resources to conduct a study of alcoltol and :vandalism. Chadwick warnsthat we have to be \very careful\ not to C<ln- clude that alcohol comsurnption induces vandalism. A weekend like last calls. for extreme care. d damage .• was unavailable for 0 v e comment. J. Hill, Director of Service Honored Operations explained on the ceilings will June 17 and must be by August 26. Once the \final checklist\ completed by Sep- 2. \All work,\ Hill 'is being done in full of the Environ- Agency and Safety and guidelines~\ work on June 17 days for the removal the loose items in the Due to the work, has advised to move all personal from the rooms before . Both Fox and dorms will be closed wishing to enter time, and the work be partitioned off. will be replaced e inch square acoustic tiles will be fire and Davidson will painted this summer of the removal. • to apply under the program. indicates he will also use of the alumni. network, made up of who have agreed as local admissions He hopes to in such as Philadelphia, D.C., Chicago, and There are currently coordinators Denver, Fort Worth, Los Angeles, Miami- Minneapolis- New Orleans, San San Diego, and San hours from the y of classes through Term examination and commencement are: , June 4-Fri., June 5-- p.m. June 6-Sun., June 7-- p.m. June 8-Tues., June 9-- :00 p.m. June 10--8:30 a.m.- June 11-Sat., June a.m.-5:00 p,m. June 14--Ciosed ght Study will close Library closes, Thurs., June 11 at Members of the College community retiring this year and those who have completed 25 years at Union will be honored Friday, June 19, at the annual Employee Recognition Luncheon. This year's progt·am will begin at noon at the Holiday Inn, N ott Terrace. All interested members of the campus community are invited to attend. The cost is $6.35 per person, and reservations should be made by June 11 with George Richards, director of personnel. This year's retirees include Irma Hamilton, Arts Depart- ment executive assistant for programs; Clarence F. Goodheart, professor of elec- trical engineering and com- puter science; Edwin F. Gillette, professor of mathematics; Stanley T. LeRoy, engineering assistant; W. Loretta Walker, head of information services at Schaffer Library; Annie Sweet, History Department secretary; Joseph Choiniere, machine lab; Thomas Flynn and William Paszeski, security; and John Young, Madeline Bailey, and Helen . Banasiak from the physical plant. Those wh() have completed 25 years at the College are Ennis Pilcher, pmfessor of physics; Edw?rd J. Craig, professor of electrical engineering and computer science and chairman of the department; and James Moore, William Zarzycki, and William Crandell from the physical plant. Final Examination Schedule , Additions, Deletions, Changes Mon., June 8, 8:30-10:30 a.m.--Freshman Elective 24-- Perspectives of the Modern · Mind-- Tharsing--SS113. Mon., June 8, 8:30-10:30 a.m.--Chemistry 40-- Quantitative Chemistry-- Werner--SS016 Wed., June 10, 2-4 p.m.-- Psychology 10--A First Course in Psychology--Huntley •. Py. 102 Wed., June 10, 2-4 p.m.-·C.S. 18--lntroduction to Computer Organization--Sec. 1-- Goodheart--HU 115 Wed., June 10, 2-4 p.m.--C.E. 160-- Transportation Engineering--BU 106 Mon., June 8, 8:30-10:30 MJJ.e. f!H9i a.m.--ADD English 22--Major American Authors: The American Renaissance-- Wineapple·-PY 102 Tues., June 9--8:30-10:30 a.m.--ADD Economics 51·- Environmenta I Economics-- Kenney--OC; English 77--The American Novel 111-- Wineapple--HU 114 Tues., June 9, 8:30-10: 30 a.m.--DELETE History 82 (The Development of Modern Medicine--Dawson--HU 019) No exam! Tues., June 9, 2-4 p.m.-- DELETE Freshman Elective 16 (Health and Healing: Historical Perspectives on Current Medical Issues-- . Dawson--SS 014) No exam! 111S BARRETT ST. SCH~NECTADY PtiO .. E 377-2642 or 382-8684 Homestyle Italian Cooking Salad Bar Included witll All Pasta & All Dinners Reasonable prices Plus Cl I G% Discount to Unio~ College Students with IDs Banquet Facilities Education: A· Shot By DAVE. KAPLAN I ran into a friend of mine the · other day who's now working for the Reagan Administration . at the Department 1 of Education. After he brushed himself off, I asked him what he was doing lately. \I'm working on handguns, now. It's a big problem, you know, what with aU the shootings,- trying to formulate some sort of plan to cut down. on the violence without gun-control legislation.'' \It seems to me that that's just .about impossible,\ I mused, resisting the temptation to ask just why the Department of Education was involved in guns in the first place. \How can you stop handgun violence withoUt trying to reduce the number of guns at large?\ \It's obvious that you are not Reagan Administration material/' he snorted, and shook his head. \If you were, you'd realize that taking away ,guns is about the most hazar- dous thing you could possibly do.'' I was confused, and I told my friend so. lie offered to explain. . \The whqle concept behind reducing the handgun violence is based on what we in the Administration call the Jellybean Dilemma. Quite simply, if A has a bunch of jellybeans and B can'f afford any, but B has a rock and A doesn't, we have our basic armed conflict problem. Now, there are two ways to solve the problem. One way would be to give B some jellybeans and hope he'll go away.\ . \That sounds fair.\ I said, ''and you'd also stop any un· necessary bloodshed.\ · My friend's face turned bright red, and I could sense that he was valiantly trying to control his emotions. \It's talk like that that would put American indu~try out of business. Who's gomg to buy jellybeans if he knows that he's just going to have to give some up when some guy with a rock comes along?\ \So what do we do?\ \Simple: we give A a rock, too. That way, he has an even chance to defend his beans. B either gets a rock in his skull or no beans. Either way, A wins.\ \But what if B hits A first,\ I asked, not following his logic at all. At my question, he smiled ~ delightedly. \You've- hit precisely upon the major problem of the Jellybean Dilemma. Cominon crooks know how to handle guns CONCORDY NEEDS WRITERS! · Anyone interested should contact Rachel or Paul Box 2517 OONOORDIENSIS, May 28J featur' • ID the Arm ~etter . than law-abiding Jellybean-earning citizens. And that is where my job comes in. I'm part ·Of a massive gun education: and distribution program.;' \Distribution! What on earth for?\ · \To follow out analogy,\ he e~plained patiently, as if to a slightly retarded fox terrier, ''what we want to do is to give so many rocks to the A's of the country,· and show them the right way to throw them, that the B 's just don't have a chance. So the Administration figures that since children are the best· learners, we start handgun training in the elementary schools.\ · · \But you can't give a loaded gun to a first-grader,\ I protested. \You'll have kids shooting each other over, well, jellybeans.' • · '\'Of course not, we're not stupid, you know. The child doesn't receive ammunition until he or she has passed our rigorous examination at the completion <Jf the third grade. Until then, the kid is just given blanks, to get a feel for the weight of the gun. \The whole problem with handgun violence today is that the criminal relies on the fact that you haven't got a gun. : has nothing to do with soci; factors. Now, can you picture potential child-kidnappe coming up to one of our traine kids? 'Little girl, you want t come with me?' he'll say. 'I' buy you lots of candy.' At thi: the kid recognizes this pitc from class, pulls out a Saturda Night Special, and blows tb pervert away. Nobody will dar to mess with a youngste again.\ \Not even his parents,\ mumbled, as I slumped in m chair. \Look he said, with not little exasperation in his voict ''if we don't learn how to gu down outlaws, the only peopl who'll be able to use guns will b outlaws. By the way, how do yo think that would look on bumper .sticker?'' \Terrific I said. \But wru happens when parents sta1 complaining that they don want to extol the virtues < killing to their child?\ \Oh well,\ my friend sighe confidently, ''most parent would buckle under if thei precious one came home i tears, bawling, 'Jimmy has gun; Bobby has a gun; eve Jane has a gun! I got to hav one, too, Mon! \' Blue Skies Ove·r ·1 By D. BOOTH Thus far in my articles I have avoided touching on the issue of seduction, nay. the art of seduction, only because it is a subject so delicate, an art so difficulty balanced, that any advice upon the subject might fall short of the incredible reality. · It is important to remember the definition of seduction. It is no less than the total subjection of mind, body, and soul to the fantasy of another's creation. Each of these parts must be covered, first separately, then as a whole. The mind is really the crux of the matter. First the subject of one's advances must be titillated, excited enough to want to be seduced. The classical seduction has traditionally begun with a small intimate dinner for two in his bachelor rooms. To be sure, the classical approach with can- dlelight, soft music, roving hands, · and climatic music is effective, yet I am advocating a slightly different approach. It is my contention that the best approach for a seduction is to amaze them with your originality, remembering that it is the little things which count. For example, invite her over for · some honey in the comb. Very few people have ever had honey in the comb, making it a new and exciting sensory ex- perien~e. The honey is golden, dripping slowly away from the spoon as it is erected towards her waiting mouth. Honey in the comb is properly eaten by plunging . the spoon into the comb and pulling out the sticky mess;- wax and all. It is then placed in the. mouth, and kept there until the wax is sucked dry. The taste from the comb is far riclter than from the bottle, its taste a well known erotic stimulant (I refer the reader to the etymology of honeymoon). The mind having had its curiosity excited, the body must be stimulated. For those-. wh are at a loss for stimulating body, I must refer you to thos books concerning erogenou zones. It seems to me that sue things go without Saying. . This brings me to that fim point, the subjugation of th soul .• This is that moment whe suddenly it seems the day is les b:right without your presence. might a_dd that it is also th most dangerous part of seduction, the possessing an Summer This summer, while w students work as earn counselors, salespeoplt lifeguards, rnainteilanc people, etc., what will they, tl faculty, be doing? A rando1 sampling provided some aJ swers to this importat question! Said Professor Weick ~ Chemistry, ''I'll be here 1 Union this summer doiD research.,; This was a typic: reply. Professor Hayes of Ch mistry: \I'll be writiD publications of the worl seniors did for their theses. All I'll be doing work with a new: graduated student, Crai Williams, on QuantuJ Chemistry. And of course I'll 1 recovering from the scho year.\ Professor Baker Philosophy: \I'll be on National Science Foundati1 Grant, and will be living in tl hospitals in New York Ci observing how physicians mal decisions to discontinue li' sustaining equipment, such . respirators.\ Professor Warde of ModE Languages: \I'll be hard work on two papers; one Franz Kafka and the other Goethe.\ Professor Reece of Classi1 \I will be trying to finish 1 book on the Flavian Emper1 of Rome.\

-- Page4 ''This • IS By R.ICHAR:D MAHLER CC PS )-You wouldn't recognize the face, but the voice is possil>ly the most frequently- heard one in the history of the world. It belongs to Casey Kasem, who's been corning at you over Ute radio with \The American Top 40,'' a weekly syndicated countdown of top-selling records on more than 9.50 stations aroundthe world, for 11 years now. A televised version of the show has been out for a year. ''Hollywood will always represent dreams to people,\ says Kasem in explaining why his countdown format, in which songs are introduced with colorful anecdotes about the recording artist involved, is so successful. \Our Show is about positive aspects of people's lives. We avoid anything that would shed a bad light on a group or individuaL\ Consequently, he's \very careful\ in .a voiding con- troversy and ''exploitation.\ He'll argue for an hour to prevent one word from running in the program that might in- sinuate something that I don't v.rant people to have in their heads about a person,\ he stresses. Kasem l>elieves the accent on the positive explains AT40's, as it's known among radio syn- dicators, wide appeal. \Our biggest fans are people in the business,\ Kasem says. ~'They know i.f we · say something it's going to be truth- ful and completely checked out.\ It's checked out by his staff of four writers, stationed in New York and Los A.ngeles. Kasem is deeply aware of the trials and tribulations· of rnaking it in the music business. Starting as an actor and sound effects man in the studios of his native Detroit, he worked at several television and radio stations before settling in San Francisco in the early sixties. One day the program director at KEWB there told Kasem, who had been using comedy and character voices on his Top 40 show, to forget the jokes and come up with something dif- ferent-fast. \I had no idea what I would do;\ Kasem recalls. \I saw a copy of Who's Who in Pop Music lying in the garbage can. It listedthings like the real names of artists and their home towns. And at the statt of the show, I started teasing.\ The \tease-bio\ concept was an overnight success, With Kasem using anecdotal in- troductions to the songs, followed by the \pay-off\ after the song is played. The approach took him south to KRLA, then the top rock station in Los Angeles. Between :1965 and 1007 he hosted a syn- dicated TV dance show called \Shebang and in July, 1970~ the first syndicated version of ~'American Top 40\ was released. \Jt was the wrong place at the wrorl!; time,\ Kasem reflects now. \Top 40 was a dirty word. It was passe. Everybody told rne that term was the death knell.\ .. But Kasem had faith. \I never believed that disc jockies or Top 40 would disappear. It's got deeper roots than any kind of music I can think of.\ Ile was correct. From the initial seven stations it played on, AT40 has grown to roughly $0 stations in the U.S., plus 400 :affiliates of the Armed Forces OONOORDIENSISj Mau !8, 1981 ~rts & Culture Casey Kasem'' Radio Network. The show is not only profitable for local stations - it is the top--rated show in some markets, and thus commands top advertising rates - but it helps clue program director~ into new music trends. ward to still more projects. \I think down the line I'll certainly be doing mor~ acting and producing.\ He hopes one day. w to portray fellow Lebanese- ~ American Ralph Nader lna film a; biography. VI AT40's countdown is obtained from Billboard magazine. Interviews and research, based on Kasem's guesstimates of which song will be most popular, begin ·even before the magazine arrives. The last three days of the work week are devoted to final production of the program, which is shipped by air freight each Saturday to its clients. But portraying someone like ~ Nader would let him \play the '- role of someone who feels o. strongly ~bout the forces of & goodness in the world,\ he says. ~ \I'd hope ultimately to do u something that would leave a message with humanity.'' At 48, Casey Ka.sem still thinks rock 'n roll has :,'deeper roots than any kind of music I can think of.\ How 'bout a Quick Fix? All of which gives Kasem a rosy view of the industry. \I By GINA PERSICO· Last year, the bands See ROCK.NROLL MENAGEIIE A Zoological Music Quiz The world of rock 'n roll j., filled with anim:1l'! lust give a Ji,ten to wh<H''- playing throughout the dorm:-.. The Beatie'-. arc a' alive a' ever. The Engle,· new album i'-. doing well. Even defunct group.., from the '(,().,, Jd.:e The An'imals, are going through a re ... urgence of popularity on 'ten:o., aero'-.'-. cmnpu'c\ every-where. Doesn't it <,trike you a<, :-.trange that a typical Jiq of rock band' read:-, like the lineup from Mutllal of Omaha's W1ld I<m:~.donL' It doe<,n't? Well then, you 'hou!J have no trouble matching the ten rock recording:-. !i'-.tcd below with the animal group<, that brought them to the charts. And ju'-.t to make it a bit more gnzzly. the editor., of Games magaz·inc have thrown in five mythical group ... to throw you off the track. Wolfman Jack, cat your heart out! I. Don't Fear 'The F. caper 2. Happy Together ,_ 3. I'm The Urban Spaceman 4. Dc.1perado 'i. Mr. Tambounne Man 6. Witch DDctor 7. Maybe Baby H. furth Ang,el 9. LLlst Tram To Clarksville 10. D1fferent Drum a. The Penguin... f. The Sheep b. The Lyons g. The Byrds c. The Monkee., h. The Stone Poncy<, d. The Crickeh 1. The Chipmunk... c. The Arachnid:, J.. Blue Oyster Cult k The Elastic Tadpole Band I. The Eagles rn. The Turtles - n. Bonzo Dog Band _.. o. The Larks (;A:\!FS maga~ine. ,\ Plavbov Publication. !'JL1 Madison Ave .. NYC. . • . ·l.!·or'J·6'u·ll'P·L'I·y'll·s 'r·t 'u·,·'tu·z'L·r \·'·\\'' don't hear the blandness or the Thru and Edsky's Choice broke up. With their music careers over, the members of the bands went off in their separate directions to play their instruments wherever and whenever they could, right? Wrong't Taking a couple of members from each of · the dissolved bands and adding a percussionist, were all the ingredients needed tG form a new band, Quick Fix. Guitarists Matt Sandler and Ken Kaufman, Bass guitarist Irwin Menken, drummer Scott Hilliard, percussionist Mark Hebberd, and lead vocalist and harmonica player Jim Etkin thinks \the band is great,\ but wishes ''we could play more often,\ has been playing bongos, cow bells, and wood- blocks since the sec()nd grade. Sandler has been a guitarist for 11 years. Since the band only caters to the college, Menlten says it can have great variety in the music it plays: \college kids are liberated and diverSified in their t-aste of music. This gives our band musical freedom.\ According to Hilliard, Quick Fix plays a mixture of progressive rock n' roll, and blues music. make up -five month old Quick As for the future of the band, Fix. Menken says that due to . . . ...._graduations, summer J?ebutmg this past wmter at vacations, and members Pht Delt, the band has also transferring schools, \You perf~rmed at the Pub, Fox and nevet know whether any band Davidson, and FIJI. will stay together. I've been Judging by the input from the Campus Community, the Union College student band is, ac- cording to Sandler, ''really very good.\ He adds that this is especially surprising since the members are only able to rehearse two or three times a term due to conflicting schedules and studying. The guitarist regrets, however, that the \tightness of the band is somewhat hurt by not being able to put in enough practice time.\ All members feel the ex- perience each Quick Fix musician has makes up a good deal for the band's limitations. Hilliard, vvho says playing in the band \is a blast'', b.as been playing drums since he was seven-years-old. Hebbard, who here four years and I've played in four different bands.\ Quick Fix exemplifies this transitory element of college bands. In the fall, Menken will be graduating and Hebbard will be tran- sferring from U~ion. According to Sandler, however, replacements will be made so that the band can stay together. Due to the constant changes and school responsibilities, Hilliard says, \We can't make_ Quick Fix a serious, money- making band. So, we just have fun playing whatever we want for our friends and the school.\ \It's a· great time,n Hebbard agrees. The percussionist breaks into a smile as he adds, \and anyone who wants to have a 'quick fix' in their living room shouldn't hesitate to call us.\ sameness in radio that some people say they do. I think radio is healthy/' he asserts. But Kasem doesn't shy away from other media. His ''voiceovers'' ~ broadcasting parlance for off-camera commercial or promotional narration - have been part of NBC-TV's nightly prime-time schedule for years. His \premium\ voice makes him a favorite of top ;:tdvertisers. He's the voice of Robin on the car- toon show \Super Friends,\ and Shaggy on \Scooby Doo.\ He's made audio appearances on ''Sesame Street,'' ''Mister Magoo,\ and \Battle of the Planets.'' Due to overwhelming response the WRUC DAVE EDMONDS giveaway has been expanded. His syndicated television version of A T40 can be seen in most parts of the country as well. But there's more. His production company is helping develop \Portrait of a Legend,\ a summer TV show on which actor-singer James Darren will host tributes to famous music figures. ''Fortunately, all my careers are going at full tilt,\ Kasem understates, as he looks for- DAVE EDMONDS has iust released TWANGIN', his brand new solo album, featuring the hot ,single, ~'Almost Saturday Night.\ To celebrate this event, WRUC will be giving away 25 commemorative DAVE EDMONDS buHons. as well as 10 copies of TW AN GIN'. F6r your chance to win, iust complete the entry blank. below, address it to WRUC, Box 1616, and drop it in the \Qn· Campus\ mail slot. Deadline for entries is Friday, May 29. GOOD LUCK! WRUC 90.9 FM ••• The Sound of Union College ---------------------------------------------- NAME BOX ·--~-~-----~-~---------------~-----~-----------· Promotional Consideration by Atlantic Records I D is fo or re th CC Sc \' rn di e:li cc re St in al ( so of at H he of a~ a~ Fl ar H th T( te p, Ci V< gt a fo bt rn rn \I g< G St

. OONOORDIEN818~ May BB~ 1981 Pa.ge IS ~rts & Culture ' , Artist, Come Home! DEMETRA PONTISAKOS,~Ed. The Schenectady Arts Council is sponsoring a benefit per- formance at Proctor's Theatre on June 7, to support the refurbishing of that grand old theater and to support the continued activities of the Schenectady Arts Council. The show, Artist, Come Home! A varied program of music, dance, mime and drama, wm be unique and · exciting in that the cast is composed of over twenty area residents who are now enjoying successful professional careers in concert halls and on stages all over the country. It is a wonderful opportunity for the entire community to come together to re.cognize the achievements of people who began their careers right here in Schenectady. It's also a wonderf.ul chance for the people of the community to come together to benefit the arts locally. It is of Special interest to the Union College community that our very own. Professor of mathematics, Ned Rosen, will be providing piano ac- companiment for several vocalists. Also, Michael Gillette, violinist for the New York City Opera, and son of Professor GHlette, will be performing as well,. as will be _ Amy Kriegler and her sister Cabaret Review By GLENN KRUTOFF Last Thursday, the sophomore lottery and the rash of \party feveru caused a small attendance at Cabaret. However, the absence of a full house did not mean an absence of talent. The MC for this Cabaret was Tom Farrell. Tom, who · was asked last minute to host, was as usual a fine performer. Farrell's mixture of comedy and music was very apealing. He spoofed country musiC, TV theme songs and commercials. Tom truly knows how to en- tertain an audience. The first act was Marisa Palasits, accompanied by Cathy Aversa, on piano and vocals, and Carol Jlanretta, on guitar and vocals. Palasists has a fine, big voice. She was in top form, but would have been better a.ff not using · a microphone. She sang various mellow tunes, for example: \Come in from the Rain \ \I've ' ' got a Name,\ and \Circle Game.\ and \Songbird\, a Streisand song, was her fiJ1est 464 State St. \N8 deliver , moment. The audience demanded two encores. The first, \Don't Cry Out Loud,\ was very pleasing. She was joined, on her second encore by her brother Da:vid. Palasits started the evening off with finesse. She is a pleasing per- former. The second act, this evening, --Was Melissa Gold ( ac- companied occasionally by McFarrell). Melissa possesses a beautiful full voice and is a talented pianist. She is a truly classy vocalist. She, too, per- formed mellow tunes. Some of the highlights of her per- formance were: JT's \Millwork; Billy Joel's \Souvenir\; \Sleepy Man,\ from The RBbber Bridegroom; and ''Will You Love Me Tomorrow.\ Gold's finest moment was \Desperado which has almost become her trademark here at Union. Melissa's musical gift and her dry wit make her an amazing performer. This was a truly entertaining evening. Schenectady 374-1888 ·This Weekend at the Pub Friday- Beef & Brew 5-7:00 Pizza Night at the Pub Saturd.ay 5-11 1 8-cut Pizza and Pitcher of Beer $4.50 Appearing Next Friday \Slip Knot\ Natalie (violin and flute respectively), who have played in various ensemble groups in New York City. Natalie teaches. violin for the Union College Department of the Arts. There is no reason .to miss this celebration of music, film, dance and drama at Proctor's Theatre on June 7th, starting at .3:00p.m .. , so· be there and share in Schenectady's (and Union•s) pride! Tickets are available through the Community Box Office: Adults-$5.§0, Students-· $4.50, Senior Citizens-$4.50. For more information call JoAnne DeVoe at 399-4991 or the Schenectady Arts Council in Proctor's Arcade at 374-3321. Professor'Ned Rosen will be playing his piano on June 7th at the Proctor's Theatre Celebration, Artist, Come Home. ,· ,. A Request From Mountebanks By MELISSA GOLD Because of the success of this term's production of \Noah's Nott,\ Mountebanks, Union~s theatre organization will be returning to the campus in full swing. After a two year lull, the student interest in and reaction to \Noah's Nott\ was exactly what was needed to show that theatre is alive and well and in demand at Union. Since the play was totally the work of students and since its success was unquestionable, there is no -doubt in anyone's mind that Mountebanks is and will be a capable and productive organization. With its recent meetings and election of new . officers {Ken Altman, moderator, Andy Levine, business manager, Melissa Gold--Secretary and Ruth Ewing, member at large), Mountebanks has gotten off to a fine start. In order to maintain the group, however, student input is A Weekend of One·Act Plays Friday and Saturday at 7:30p.m.: In the Nott Memorial Theatre: THE HOLE by N.F. Simpson Saturday and Sunday at 9:00 p.m.: In the . Cabaret Room: THIS PROPERTY IS CON- DEMNED by Tennessee WiiHams and THE BALD SPORANO by Eugene lonesco (per- formed on a double bill. Admission is free, first come·, first served1 For more information, please call Andy Levine at 382-9582. a necessity. Therefore, Mountebanks has two requests of the campus community. If anyone has a particular production they would like to direct next year, or would simply like to direct ,please contact any of the officers and come to the Mountebanks meeting on Monday, June 1 at 7:30 p.m. in the Nott. Ow second request is anyone who is interested in Mountebanks, i:n any aspect of theatre, please attend the meeting. We welcome you all. Yes, I know faces and many of their names We pass each other with smiling greetings and continue on our respective ways and sometimes, on rare occasion, one of those faces with a. name attached or not will lead me from the beaten path and we'd reveal to each other the beings beneath; the feelings within. -Christopher H. Gaynor THE UNION JAZZ ENSEMBLE Directecl by Michael Scott IN CONCERT·- SATURDAY, MAY 30 MEMORIAL CHAPEL 9:00 pm FREE ADMISSION STUDENT E'NVIRONMENTAL ALLIANCE A Clean-Up Fri. 29th 3:30 the featuring Gardens Party The Martin Bros. Band -Bring Yo~r Own Mug-

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS, May 28\ 1981 Edit~ rials Letters ~ COilllll\!Jltary Seek And Ye Shall Find The search will begin soon for someone to fUl a very important position on campus. It will be a position that affects the lives of aU of the students here. Previously, of course, this job was the position of Dean of Students. Now that the position is being filled by an interim Dean, we have a chance to scrutinize exactly what a position like that of Dean of Students should entail. President Morris has decided to take all of the time necessary te fill the position. He is no doubt confident in the ability of Prof. Spring to fill the position on an interim basis. The task that lies ahead is one that we believe should be handled slowly, methodically and with care. We ap- plaud the decision of President Morris to take the time necessary in deciding on an ultimate solution to the issue at hand. One of the criteria that the President used in deciding to take time before making the· decision was that he wanted students involved in the search procedure. This we feel should be commended. One of the major complaints on the student level was that there was little or no com· munication with the office .of the Dean of Students and the students themselves. Hopefully this situation wUI not repeat itself with the in· stitution of the new dean. Certainly the appointment of Prof. Spring is a step in that particular direction. He has much experience in the field of coilllseling and is apparently experienced in dealing with student problems. Prof. Rudy Nydegger is also very familiar with the office of the Dean of Students. A few years ago, he acted as an interim Dean of Students. This prior experience wm, no doubt, aid him in his leadership of the search committee. Both of these men, having taught here, are also familiar with students. They are sensitive to many of the problems that we as students tnust face here at Union and will be able to point the committee in the right direction when choosing a new dean. Vice President for Finance and Administration John Hauser is an in· teresting choice for the search committee. One might be inclined to think that the Vice President of Academic Affairs would be the voice needed most in the search process. Vice President Hauser is, however, familiar with the _intricacies of housing, food service, and many of the other areas of student life that typically fall under the responsibilities of the Dean of Students. One ought to s!op an~ question for a moment if what Union really needs is a Dean of Students. Why, when we have a Vice President for Finance, Administration, Continuing Education and Alumni Affairs, as well as a Vice President for Academic Affairs, do we have a dean of students. Typically, a vice president is higher in the administrative hierarchy than the dean. It is the implication of the present situation then that student affairs do not hold the same priorities as academic or financial affairs? Possibly what we should be searching for in the next few months is a Vice President for Student Affairs. Certainly it may be viewed as merely a title, but should the individual overseeing student affairs have to answer to the Vi~e President of Academic Affairs? If that be the case, seeing as how Union is first and foremost an academic in· stitution, should not everyone answer to the Vice Presid~nt of Academic Affairs? Such a situation is obviously not feasible. The responsibility is too great. Therefore, limitations on the role of the Vice President of Academic Affairs must be drawn. The director of athletics here at Union must report to Vice President D'Andrea. This makes an important statement concerning the role of athletics in an institution such as Union. The delineation between what is academic and what is not is not always clear. It is our op:Ll'lion, however, that there are times when student affairs are clearly out of the realm of \academia.\ Union is a place for social as well as scholastic growth. Ideally the two go hand in hand, buf there are times when problems arise. Union eXists for her students. The students should therefore have their ''affairs\ tossed around the same table as the financial and academic \affairs'' of the school. The resignation of Dean Kellett has made it possible to scrutinize this aspect of life here at Union. If the quality of student life here at Union is to be maintained and improved, careful study must be made of the place that student affairs holds in the administrative hierarchy of the school. More than this, the individual who will eventually assume the respon- sibilities of student affairs must be keenly aware of the needs of the students as well as have an exact understanding of the place that student affairs has here. It is our hope that with all of the time necessary, along with the correct guidance, the search committee will arrive at a sound group of candidates for this important position. It is also our hope that careful scrutiny of the responsibilities to be undertaken will yield con- structive suggestions that will lead to a cogent understanding of the importance of student affairs here at Union. People must be chosen on what they ~will not do, and then they are able to act with vigor in what they ought· to do. -Mencius 300 B.C. Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor Associate Editor Business Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Women's Sports Editor ·Photo Editor Spor.ts Photo Editor Cartoonist Staff • Paul Grossman, Rachel I. Mandel Julie Isgro Donna Creefey Jeff Scardino Joe Maguire Naomi Blank Dan Booth, Judi Chervenak BobFo~, Demetra Pontisakos Maria Manfredonia, Charis Richards Bill Curtin, Jay McDeriru>tt Cory Lewkowicz Mindy Broser Steve Lerner Lisa Snyder Steve Auerbach, Dan Rosenfield, Cindy Tenner, Amelia Terhune . Photo Staff Charis Richards, Cindy Tenner · CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College,. Carnegie Hall, Schenec:tady, New York 12308; Publications Off1ce: Susquehanna Publlcatmns, Inc., p Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563.-7151. Ente~e~ m the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Concordiensis subscribes to the College Press SeJ;\Vice (CPS). Concordiensis · is looking ·forward to working reiCitionships with' many of you. and serving all of you next year. IITITI\£1TI\£1fiTITI\fiTITI~Ili-£1.£1:LITITITill.fiTI·~ -\ /

Page 6 OONCORDIENSIS, May 28, 1981 Editorials Letters Seek And Ye Shall Find The search will begin soon for someone to fill a very important position on campus. It will be a position that affects the lives of all of the students here. Previously, of course, this job was the position of Dean of Students. Now that the position is being filled by an interim Dean, we have a chance to scrutinize exactly what a position like that of Dean of Students should entail. President Morris has decided to take all of the time necessary to fill the position. He is no doubt confident in the ability of Prof. Spring to fill the position on an interim basis. The task that lies ahead is one that we believe should be handled slowly, methodic-ally and with care. We ap- plaud the decision of President Morris to take the time necessary in deciding on an ultimate solution to the issue at hand. One of the criteria that the President used in deciding to take time before making the decision was that he wanted students involved in the search procedure. This we feel should be commended. One of the major complaints on the student level was that there was little or no com- munication with the office of the Dean of Students and the students themselves. Hopefully this situation will not repeat itself with the ih- stitution of the new dean. Certainly the appointment of Prof. Spring is a step in that particular direction. He has much experience in the field of counseling and is apparently experienced in dealing with student problems. Prof. Rudy Nydegger is also very familiar with the office of the Dean of Students. A few years ago, he acted as an interim Dean of Students. This prior experience will, no doubt, aid him in his leadership of the search committee. Both of these men, having taught here, are also familiar with students. They are sensitive to many of the problems that we as students must face here at Union and will be able to point the committee in the right direction when choosing a new dean. Vice President for Finance and Administration John Hauser is an in- teresting choice for the search committee. One might be inclined to think that the Vice President of Academic Affairs would be the voice needed most in the search process. Vice President Hauser is, however, familiar with the _intricacies of housing, food service, and many of the other areas of student life that typically fall under the responsibilities of the Dean of Students. One ought to s~op an~ question for a moment if what Union really needs is a Dean of Students. Why, when we have a Vice President for Finance, Administration, Continuing Education and Alumni Affairs, as well as a Vice President for Academic Affairs, do we have a dean of students. Typically, a vice president is higher in the administrative hierarchy than the dean. It is the implication of the present situation then that student affairs do not h.old the same priorities as academic or financial affairs? Possibly what we should be searching for in the next few months is a Vice President for Student Affairs. Certainly it may be viewed as merely a title, but should the individual overseeing student affairs have to answer to the Vice President of Academic Affairs? If that be the case, seeing as how Union is first and foremost an academic in- stitution, should not everyone answer to the Vice President of Academic Affairs? Such a situation is obviously not feasible. The responsibility is too great. Therefore, limitations on the role of the Vice President of Academic Affairs must be drawn. The director of athletics here at Union must report to Vice President D'Andrea. This makes an important statement concerning the role of athletics in an institution such as Union. The delineation between what is academic and what is not is not always clear. It is our opinion, however, that there are times when student affairs are clearly out of the realm of \academia.\ Union is a place for social as well as scholastic growth. Ideally the two go hand in hand, but there are times when problems arise. Union exists for her students. The students should therefore have their \affairs\ tossed around the same table as the financial and academic \affairs\ of the school. The resignation of Dean Kellett has made it possible to scrutinize this aspect of life here at Union. If the quality of student life here at Union is to be maintained and improved, careful study must be made of the place that student affairs holds in the administrative hierarchy of the school. More than this, the individual who will eventually assume the respon- sibilities of student affairs must be keenly aware of the needs of the students as well as have an exact understanding of the place that student affairs has here. It is our hope that with all of the time necessary, along with the correct guidance, the search committee will arrive at a sound group of candidates for this important position. It is also our hope that careful scrutiny of the responsibilities to be undertaken will yield con- structive suggestions that will lead to a cogent understanding of the importance of student affairs here at Union. People must be chosen on what they will not do, and then they are able to act with vigor in what they ought to do. -Mencius 300 B.C. Manifest Destiny Takes Hold To the Campus Community: think President Reagan •s · election solved the threat to our survival. HfJwever, this is not true. Because now the anti-defens lobby is wurking desperately t derail President Reagan's program f~r· a stronger, safe · The movement has begun. America. For example, on May The idea of the final and · 3rd, they marched on _the ultimate realization of Pentagon to protest \another American Manifest Destiny is Vietnam•• in El Salvador. starting to take hold. The sixty Also. I'm sure you've noticed votes that I, Joe Maneen, that the TV networks are using received in the recent student the same kind of advocacy forum election for president can journalism techniques to stop be considered a vote of con· our support Qf El Salvador that · fidence for the platfonn of the they did to stop us in Vietnam. · American Nationalist Party. ' Therefore, myself and the· These sixty votes turned out to members of the American · be 7.6 percent of the total vote. Nati~nalist P~rty urge you to Drop the decimal point from 7.6 take JUSt a moment right now to · and you get 76. You tell me, is it write a letter to President just mere coincidence that 76 Reagan. Let him know in your happens to be the year of the own words that you,re behind birth of our great nation? Or is_..... him. Tell him how you agree. j it an omen for things to come? with him that what Castro and It has also come to my at- · the C()mtnunists are doing in tention that more and more Central America must be people on this campus are stopped. After aU. if we eantt starting to come out and say, stup Communist expansion this \I'm proud to be an American.'' near home, where can we stop and \I believe in our govern~ it? The President's address is ment,\ and \I stand behind our The White House, 1600 Penn- president.\ Well, -we can do sylvania Avenue, N. W., something more than just utter Washington, D.C. 20500. these words. We can write the Please. Help America ·before President and tell him this. Tell there is no America to help. him that we support his programs, especially his foreign policy, and in particular his stand in El Salvador. Sincerely', JosephP. Maneen, Jr. American Nationalist Party P.S. To ANP Fan Club: Keep those letters coming. They're · Stdding fuel to the fire. Your action now is vital . because so many loyal Americans have relaxed. They Editors-in-<;hief Managing Editor J\ssociate ~ditor Business Editor News Editor A.ssistant News ~ditor Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Women's Sports Editor Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Cartoonist Staff , Paul Grossman, Rachel I. Mandel Julie Isgro Donna Creeley Jeff Scardino Joe Maguire Naomi Blank Dan Booth, Judi Chervenak Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Maria Manfredonia, Charis Richards Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Cory Lewkowicz Mindy Broser Steve Lerner Lisa Snyder Steve Auerbach, Dan Rosenfield, Cindy Tenner, Amelia Terhune . Photo Staff Charis Richards, Cindy Tenner ; CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schene'?tadr, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publlcatlons, Inc., ~1 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Ente~e~ m the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscr1ptwn rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Concordiensis subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS). IJ.IJ.IJ.lhiJ,l~l~IJ.I.~I~ILIJ.IJ.IJ.I~IJ.I.I.IJ.IJ.lJ .. IJ.IJ.I Concordiensis is looking forward to working relationships with many of you. and serving all of you next year.

,OONOORDIIQNSIS, May 88, 1.981 Page '7 Bes1 of wishes to the Graduates-of '81. ' - Look· not mournfully into the Past. It comes not back ag-ain. Wisely improve the Present. It is thine. Go .forth to meet the shad,owy Future, without fear, and with a manly heart. - Henry Wadsworth Longf~llo_w Letters Editorials Accolades with Gratitude It is very difficult to eJq>lain to people exactly what is Involved ih putting a weekly newspaper together, Most individuals who work on newspapers do so for a living, get paid, and devote aU of their time to the project. When one realizes this, one is hard pressed to call newspaper work Uke that needed for Concordiensis, easy. Over the past year,· the newspaper has appeared on Thursday, without fail. Con- cordiensls has tried to .infonn the campus community · about issues of importance, to the best of its ability. The time spent, and the dedication of the editorial board and staff is to be cornin.ended. · · A newspaper is a demanding child,. always looking for input, always demanding attention and never letting the ''parents~· have one moment's rest. The staff has been exceptional in its 4 ' b b • ! 6 d tv- 6 4 t 0 desire to devote their precious free time to the paper, despite the overwhelming workload that Union College students often find themselves carrying. Working for the newspaper is a job that receives very little praise, and practically no feedback fmm the campus as a whole. The st11dents who have worked With us have done their job without complaining about this general lack of }!)OSitive feedback and interest. This is a hard thing to do,· week after week. We would personally like to thank those individuals who over the past year have con- tributed to tile newspaper in one way or another, whether it be writing an article, typing an article, doing layout or counting words. Without. these .people the newspaper would not have existed, and a campus is not a true educational institution without a newspaper. They were upholding a fine jour- nalistic tradition. Next year, with the aid of many of our present staff members, and the help of new additions, we will strive to publish a newspaper that the entire campus can read and be proud of without exception. This year's staff has provided us with a good solid base to build on. It is our feeling that this year was a good one for the newspaper, and those involved have done a phenomenal job. We thank them, believe we .can consider them friends, and welcome working with them again next year. Have a good summer. Paul Grossman and Rachel Mandel With 80 degree weather can summer be far be.hind? Have a good one I \ ~. I ~ \ I \ '. I \ Union ~~Uege: The No-Work Fantasy

OONOORDIENSIS, May !8, 1981 Page 7 ·p :•:'W:''':' '.\?'~: .. : ' .. ,.,,<C _;:·/:>:··· i'' . • •• w , • ·.L .. '; {)_ .. · ·t ... t ... ()}.r· s. _--~ 0; ···:- • ,_... ~~- ' \'* -_ ..... . ··.:y-, --- - - ---· - -· . -- . Then ks for Being A friend Sentiments: Life ean be compared to a mountain of valleys and peaks nf decisions of which direction to take~ and of challenges When we chao~ a direction that is less than easy. From the time Qf our birth we reach for the top of thiS· ro.oUIJtain. We long for the time when we wUl reach at last our tmppy plateau. · Although we realize we may not make it there in this life, <Jur aim does aot change, . Ot)ler people ~nflu,ence our lives. greatly, whether we know them for out entire lives or just speak to them in passing along ()Ur. way. The$e people enrich our lives, be they friend or foe. Tbey mate the j~urney 'line of t~tl'ttn.g and gromli. and they give us the· stt~ngth to make it to the 1;op. !here are some tba:t we shall always remember for . ... ,. 4' what they have added to our lives, but there are only a vecy · few who will ever be -as special as you. Thank you fQr being a friend! RAB Graduating Thoughts To ~he College: June is rapidly drawing to a dose another year here at Union. Some of us shall return through Union's gates again in the fall, while others of us shall go on with our lives in other places. In any case, Union will'' always be a part of our lives and our memories. The friends and educatiM we have obtained here will be of great value to us for the rest of {)Ur lives. Union-may your gates be forever. open and y<~ur Dut~ cbmen, forever strong and proud. Best of wishes to the Graduates of '81. Look not mournfully into the Past. It comes not back again. ~ Wisely improve the Present. , It is thine. Go .forth to meet the shadowy Future, without fear, and with a manly heart. - Henry Wadsworth Longfellow Letters Editorials Accolades with Gratitude It is very difficult to explain to people exactly what is involved in putting a weekly newspaper together. Most individuals who work on newspapers do so for a living, get paid, and devote all of their time tG the project. When one realizes this, one is hard pressed to call newspaper work like that needed for Concordiensis, easy. Over the past year, · the newspaper has appeared on Thursday, without fail. Coo- cordiensis has tried to inform the campus community about issues of importance, to the best of its ability. The time spent, and the dedication of the editorial board and staff is to be conunended. A newspaper is a demanding child, always looking for input, always demanding attention and never letting the ''parents\ have one moment's rest. The staff has been exceptional in its desire to devote their precious free time to the paper, despite the overwhelming workload that Union College students eften find themselves carrying. Working for the newspaper is a job that receives very little praise, and practically no feedback from the campus as a whele. The students who have worked with us have done their job with{)ut complaining about this general lack of positive feedback and interest. This is a han! thing to do, week after week. We would personally like to thank those individuals who over the past year have con- tributed to the newspaper in one way or another, whether it be writing an article, typing an article, doing layout or counting words. Without these people the newspaper would not have ex:isted, and a campus is not a true educational institution without a newspaper. They were upholding a fine jour- nalistic tradition. Nex:t year, with the aid of many of our present staff members, and the help of new additions, we will strive to publish a newspaper that the entire campus can read and be proud of without exception. This year's staff has provided us with a good solid base to build on. It is our feeling that this year was a good one for the newspaper, and those involved have done a phenomenal job. We thank them, believe we can consider them friends, and welcome working with them again next year. Have a good summer. Paul Grossman at:~d Rachel Mandel With 80 degree weather can summer be far behind? Have a good one I . \ Union ~ollege: The No-Work Fantasy l r· • T . ' ., l

Page 8 · '.. 0 {_ \ . . W~at'~ H-app~IliQg Friday, May 29 WRUC B.and Party.....,9 PM Alumni Gym Film: Kramer vs. Kramer-8 & 10 PM...:SS 016 One Act Pla;y-.7 :30..-.The Nott Saturda:v, May30 Film: Kramer vs. Kramer-8 & 10 PM-8S016 One Act Play-7 :3.0 PM-The Nott One Act Plays...:~ PM-Cabaret Room Sunday I nay 31 Fiom: KramEr vs: Ktamer-8 & 10 PM-SS 016 One Act Plays\\!) PM-Cabaret Room Tban.ks! This past Timrsday, Fox and Davidson residence halls combined forces for an all- campus party. Tbe efforts of the many individuals who helped to get this event off the ground are greatly appreciated. We would like to personally thank . . . Dean Kellett, Dave Wood, Mrs. Bogar, Angelo, Jan, Liz, Piedmont, Bob at Gateway Beverage, \~uick Fix\ Sue Gray, Fox a.nd Davidson residence hall councils and Resident Advis{)crs, and special thanks to Lorraine Marra. Thanks for helping to make the party a success. Sincerely, John Pietrangelo, Doug Mahler Thanks fron Sigma Chi The brothers of Sigma Chi would like to thank all the people wh() contributed to the Clambake this yrear. Thanks to all of you who ·bought raffle tickets, shirts., or food tickets, we were able to raise over $2000 for charity. A special thanks goes out to tl:te Derby Day teams and the 1,100 friends, faculty and stucl:.ents who carne out to cheer them on. This ye~r's Derby Day Champions were Delta Gaiiliila, followed WRUC BAND PARTY. FRI., MAY 29 at 9:CJO In ALUMNI HALL OONCORDIENS1S, May !8, 1981 • Ices GeQeral Nottiees Two bedrooms available for summer sublet. WaH-to-wall carp_eting, paneled, porch, fully • furmshed apartment on Carrie St. One room also available for ' next school year. Call 393-3134. Robert M. Crane, Depty · Commissioner for Program and Policy Development, New York State Office of Health Systems Management will speak on the Relationship Between Federal and State Health Policy on Thursday May 28,. 1981 at 3:45 P.M. in Room 207, Bailey Hall. Summer Opportunity in Technical Writing With Digital Equipment Corporation A qualified candidate will . have three years towards a bachelor of arts degree, and a demonstrated interest in ex- pository writing and science. Graduating seniors will also be acceptable but this is o,nly a closely by Another Risk and Femme Fatals. These top three teams will have $200, $100, and $75 donated to the charity of their choice, respectively. The remainder of the teams 1 in alphabetical order: Delta Delta Delta, Derby Delinquents, Phi Chi Mu, Richmond Foxes, The Rodents, and Sigma Delta Tau) will have $50 donated to the charity of their choice. The remainder of the money will probably be split evenly bet- ween Big Brothers-Big Sisters, The Schenectady Boys Club, and the Sigma Chi National Charity-Wallace Village Center for the minimally retarded. Thanks again and see you next year! Thanks from Social Committee I would like to thank the students who helped ·out this weekend with Camp Union. There were so many of you that just pitched in when we needed it--selling T-shirts, cooking, pouring beer, punching meal cards, running the cast register, cleaning up, etc. You made the day much easier for the Social Committee and we really ap- preciate the help. • Activities Expo The Orientation Committ.ee swmner position. Contact the Placement quice for more information. · LOSt Man's silver ID with the name \Charles\. Possibly misplaced on Richmond lawn · last Saturday.. Please contact 6613 Anyone interested in working for Coffeehouse next year should contact Tammy 1382- 9303) or Megan ( 37~578) as soon as (}Ossible. Attention! After June 15 .all _student mail will be sent to home addresses unless otherwise specified in writing by each student. If you want your mail to be delivered to your mailbox in Carnegie you must notify the Student Affairs Office prior to June 12. If you would like your mail sent to an address other than your home address please notify us by June 12. See Brenda Barnes to make arrangements. TECHNICAL ILLUSTRA- TION-Charts and graphs done; call 399-4539 would like to invite all in- terested campus .organizations to participate in the Activities Expo tentatively scheduled for Tuesday, September 22. We would encourage you to create some type of display to make incoming students aware ·of your involvement in campus activities, what you have to offer, and the way in which they may become involved. We are aware that for your continued existence, you must generate interest within the campus community. For that reason we are sure that par- ticipation in the Expo will benefit your organization. We request your response by June 3 in order that we may contact you before the end of the school year. Thank you. ZBT-UMOC It has come to the attention of the editors that due to over- sights on the part of . Con- cordiensis, contributors to the ZBT-UMOC charity drive were not recognized in the newspaper. Though a bit late, below are the names of the top five vote-getters in the UMOC competition. Congratulations! 1. Bernie Bernstein; 2. Mike Hall; 3. Beth Meyer; 4. John \The Ghoul\ Jerwick; and 5. Charlie Phillips. Tne FUm Committee Presents: DUSTIN HOFFMAN Kramer vs. . Kramer· ~ ©ci979COlUMDIAPICIUAE!. A ~ INOUSTAIH INt ~ Attention Winter Term {\broaders! I 1 have a single to ! . sublet Fall term. Practically on campus, rent negotiaole, Call Jean 377-7793. Fox-Davidson 50-50 Raffle • Wj.nners who haven't picked up their prizes yet call 6739. COFFEEH-OUSE PRESENTS WALT ATKINSON Friday, May 29 at 8:30pm CABARET ROOM CARNEGIE HALL ONE DOLLAR Don't Miss the Last One of the Year! Educational Center TEST PREPARATiON SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 Albany Center 163 Delaware Ave. Delmar, N.Y. 12054 439-8146 For Information About Other Centers In More Thah 85 Major US Cities & Abro- Outside NY State CALL TOLL FREE: 800·223-1182 .·WRUC 90.9 fm *stereo THE·HAWKS RADIO SPECIAL Listen to the -HAWKS Radio Special this Friday and you could be a winner! At three o'clock this Friday aftemoon, the HAWKS debut album will be played in its After side one a lucky caller will have the chance to win this Rockin' and Po pin' album. Don't forget to tune in to WRUC this Friday at three o'clock. This will be brought to courtesy of Columbia records and the Magical ,.Musical Tour. .La;FftY*o'~Hue~~ human emttios wbat·4Q.xS!Jfn;;;,¥%< -~:.: IR~:~~~~~;~t;~~ :;;;v~adi® l)ewn.staiW:U<,·,,;J musieat. beds. ridieuluu.s,!,,..tfpsl .'J; .. ~;~ ,.,,~flb.ete!. W!DQU'j;;,;.,.,J,i.f&'\\\\ clioeolat~t .. M-elm -- f 111 • - , :YY Andrewshka; your- ·&,,)4,.,\ w • ·\ .. ~·· W-Hitttf!·11<m Lov~;tU\1~ MarkJr:· Is ... j sleeping. or w.ha _.,..,. . _; . . ·.~.:-····.:..w~ ,:. l~ ;:-···.• · P~Mlt\V1JU··a$~ ., •' ·· ... ,·. -.-·-. :-.--·- ---~- ~ .,. -··.·-*·-· ~- . ··.intie~J· ..• ,,. thdarr:l!t&~fo.w,-\': pamotr'· · Foxy; HI ya 1 Karen: ·no sbampoo? M~ Silver: Ha for you! D.1~t.-¥ou a~ \counselor/' Ptl mell. Lw.e alm Wh1 tb.e Hell damn Weird!! Kev,HappyA 'been tbr~ beil filled years. HE t:bree and maJ JohP: Continued froDl Not only do often excel i positions, bUI management 1' their careers tll with technical according to B 20-year AT & showed 43 perct liberal arts maj \midmanagem1 only 23 perce majors attaine1 Although libe: do make goo! tinie, IBM's T(): that such a · t ''may not help 1 his. first]ob.'' I of 562 business agencies by thE

Page 8 - l \\' v- ........ ..;.0 .. -\. r\'\.. \'q ' Wllat's H-apperpiJlg Friday, Ma)· 2!l WRUC Band Party-9 PM Alumni Gym Film: Kramer vs. Kramer--3 & 10 PM-SS 016 One Act Play-7:30-The I'iott Saturday, Mav 30 Film: Kramer vs.\Kramer-8 & 10 PM-SS016 One Act Play-7: 30 PM- The :'-l'ott One Act Plays-9 PM-Cabaret Room Sunday, May 31 Fiom: Kramer vs. Kramer-8 & 10 PM-SS 016 One Act Plays-9 PM-Cabaret Room Thanks! This past Thursday, Fox and Davidson residence halls combined forces for an all- campus party. The efforts of the many individuals who helped to get this event off the ground are greatly appreciated. We would like to personally thank . . . Dean Kellett, Dave Wood, Mrs. Bogar, Angelo, Jan, Liz, Piedmont. Bob at Gateway Beverage, \Quick Fix\ Sue Gray, Fox and Davidson residence hall councils and Resident Advisors, and special thanks to Lorraine Marra. Thanks for helping to make the party a success. Sincerely, John Pietrangelo, Doug Mahler Thanks from Sigma Chi The brothers of Sigma Chi would like to thank all the people who contributed to the Clambake this year. Thanks to all of you who bought raffle tickets, shirts, or food tickets, we were able to raise over $2000 for charity. A special thanks goes out to the Derby Day teams and the 1,100 friends, faculty and students who came out to cheer them on. This ye~r's Derby Day Champions were Delta Ganuna, followed WRUC BAND PARTY FRI •• MAY 29 at 9:00 i.n ALUMNI HALL OONCORDIENSIS, May ~8, 1981 • Ices Ge11~ral Ncttices Tw~ bedrooms available for summer sublet. Wall-to-wall carpeting, paneled, porch, fully furnished apartment on Carrie St. 0He room also available for next school year. Call 393-3134. Robert M. Crane, Depty Commissioner for Program and Policy Development, New York State Office of Health Systems Management will speak on the Relationship Between Federal and State Health Policy on Thursday May 28, 1981 at 3:45 P.M. in Room 207, Bailey Hall. Summer Opportunity in Technical Writing With Digital Equipment Corporation A qualified candidate will have three years towards a bachelor of arts degree, and a demonstrated interest in ex- positery writing and science. Graduating seniors will also be acceptable but this is only a closely by Another Risk and Femme Fatals. These top three teams will have $200, $100, and $75 donated to the charity of their choice, respectively. The remainder of the teams r in alphabetical order: Delta Delta Delta, Derby Delinquents, Phi Chi Mu, Richmond Foxes, The Rodents, and Sigma Delta Tau l will have $50 donated to the charity of their choice. The renainder of the money will probably be split evenly bet- ween Big Brothers-Big Sisters, The Schenectady Boys Club, and the Sigma Chi National Charity-Wallace Village Center for the minimally retarded. Thanks again and see you next year! 'Thanks from Social Committee I would like to thank the students who helped out this weekend with Camp Union. There were so many of you that just pitched in when we needed it--selling T-shirts, cooking, pouring beer, punching meal cards, running the cast register, cleaning up, etc. You made the day much easier for the Social Committee and we really ap- preciate the help. · Activities Expo The Orientation Committee summer position. Contact the Placement qmce for more information. LOST Man's silver ID with the name \Charles\. Possibly misplaced on Richmond lawn last Saturday. Please contact 6613 Anyone interested in working for Coffeehouse next year should contact Tammy (382- 9303! or Megan ( 370-6578) as soon as possible. Attention! After June 15 all student mail will be sent to home addresses unless otherwise specified in writing by each student. If you want your mail to be delivered to your mailbox in Carnegie you must notify the Student Affairs Office prior to June 12. If you would like your mail sent to an address other than your home address please notify us by June 12. See Brenda Barnes to make arrangements. TECHNICAL ILLUSTRA- TION-Charts and graphs done; call 399-4539 would like to invite all in- terested campus organizations to participate in the Activities Expo tentatively scheduled for Tuesday, September 22. We would encourage you to create some type of display to make incoming students aware of your involvement in campus activities, what you have to offer, and the way in which they may become involved. We are aware that for your continued existence, you must generate interest within the campus community. For that reason we are sure that par- ticipation in the Expo will benefit your organization. We request your response by June 3 in order that we may contact you before the end of the school year. Thank you. ZBT-UMOC It has come to the attention of the editors that due to over- sights on the part of Con- cordiensis, contributors to the ZBT -UMOC charity drive were not recognized in the newspaper. Though a bit late, below are the names of the top five vote-getters in the UMOC competition. Congratulations! 1. Bernie Bernstein; 2. Mike Hall; 3. Beth Meyer; 4. John \The Ghoul\ Jerwick; and 5. Charlie Phillips. ---~-~-·----------------~ The Film Committee Presents: DUSTIN HOFFMAN Kramer Kr vs. amer (C.J•91'JC.OlVMB••\'(1LJilf< A '\\\''\'\ \' ~ . Attention Winter Term Abroaders! I have a single to sublet Fall. term. Practically on campus, rent negotiable, Call Jean 377-7793. 0 f\' r ''·(I ~ .... ..,_ jo ~.. • f~ b • • ·, ~· Fox-Davidson 50-50 Raffle Winners who haven't picked up their prizes yet call 6739. .... CO'FFEEHOUSE PRESENTS WALT ATKINSON Friday, May 29 at 8:30pm CABARET ROOM CARNEGIE HALL ONE DOLLAR Don't Miss the Last One of the Year! TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 Albany Center 163 Delaware Ave. Delmar, N.Y. 12054 439-8146 . Fc.r trt . .>rr·.1toon Abnut Other Centers In '·'ore Trtan 85 'v'JtOr US Crtres & Abr Outside NY State CALL TOLL FREE: 800,223,1782 WRUC 90.9 fm * stereo THE HAWKS RADIO SPECIAL Listen to the .HAWKS Radio Special this Friday and you could be a winner! At three o'clock this Friday aftemoon, the HAWKS debut album will be played in its After side one a lucky caller will have the chance to win this Rockin' and Popin' album. Don't forget to tune in to WRUC this Friday at three o;clock. This will be brought to courtesy of Columbia records and the Magicai.Musical Tour. Larry: Here' human emotioll what to say .. , . Downstairs: : musical beds l · ridiculous! -Ups I _, i ! .; :• • 1 i J..C. There' wrong. rm chocolate! Mel RQb: Is Arub Andrewshka · your S.M. Willy and Tot . Love~ S.M. Marky: Is . sleeping or wh~ Paul: You as~ i t Jodes: Happ I thday! -Your l panion K I I l , I 1 l Melvin: Do y Watson, son Watson, Bobby what? Foxy: Hi ya Karen: Do shampoo? M. Silver: Ht: for you! D.M.-You al \counselor/' bt mell. Love alw Wh1 the Bel damn weird!! Kev,Happy} been throo bel filled years. HI three and ma Lovet Sharon Tom and M-a be the same wit luck-We love~ Dana, HelE Another great ~ are cburce! Lc Cory~ue-Eri1 Vive La Franc Staff, y()U Thanks-J}en a1 Job P Continued fron Not only do often excel positions, bu management l their careers tl with technica according to B 20-year AT & showed 43 perc< liberal arts rna. \midmanagem only 23 percE majors attaine Although libe do make goo time, IBM's Tc that such a 1 \may not help his first job.\ : of 562 business agencies by th

CONOORDIENSIS, May !8, 1981 Page 9 • Ices · .. ~.•.:eo§.;_ ,.: .: .. , .. w,m< :.;w.: .... ::q .. ,.w ·. ,;,. ' ..... • •• ·· · ,. ···0aks hi:Ol!S't ,f~ll'>·Miss,···Yar ····· Wh(l~··'fillt,····,the•c~•book~?····:·;2-.:r·'Wh.O·~· .... · Jit-egulatioM4lllObibi.t:J;h9-,,3@le f.lf · · :Kel•Ne.U: tim~ ?le .. gq (Qr LarJW•t··~Heverrk«to'\\'gt)(lli'·i!Old·· :~:Btl.· ~ .·.t ······.····\\''\'''·''' ..••. ···• ·••· ·wrote'tbe'per..aorudsli ., ...... , ..... , ..... · -~;.;b.rande<t.~ls \to .... people .. -- Chinese~- wear\the. brown,.su.lt. human emotion . .and . lm&wmg -- . . . . . . who wear alligators! · Dems ~~-~~:~~;;:: :~-- .. _, ::_ '\ ••••-~.,..On\'\1'0~-~-~-:.~\\\'-:'\\'!!:'m>';~..,:J\\\ •. ~.-.·,,;\\'< . ...,.,.,..., musical. beds .but ... .tbis Js . lL¥ Sbanda Lea .. ~We'.re gon.na . graduati~ .it!.s ... yours •.... ~TW() Glenn .... Cbria .. ridieulu.us-b-tipstaiJ!S,.\~·~ ...... w,, ..... \' ._, ..... · .. ,_, . .. ., \'\\ ..• ··mis&x\you drawl,, ... 0.-UNi·baa,.a ... we .. oa .. mo~~-.... .. Sabatinot.,., .... lti . .. .. . -'!'<l~·- . • · .. ·.· · · .. _.,,, ···:. ·: .... , .. ···· ····bave·,esked\··fo.r··more:·AftlankS\·····Sbannr .... :S.en··bikintl-·lat:ely· · ·· .· .· · .......... , ... _ ........... A.··.· ···· 1\etty- .. IlL.mlss the. rag Andr'ewshka;. Good Luek-· foralwaysbeingthere. Lov-e, B. with B.B.Ei. (Maybe he'll get a B.C. If you leave inf:4 don*t sessions. Dems your·S.M~···• · ... ~\'« , ... , . .,, __ , • .... · .. ·· ···· ·<'. . • .. '\\\' .. fl.a:ttire~~<Gootlluck,..Lov;e,.Anne-,.y, ... ev-er .... exp.ect.,anotb.er ..... pet30nal. ·· .· ~,. ,..,.,=~=~~~--::-~ ~iQ;;~;ie!~J;~~~!:';:::-,~~~ ~::;: .. , .~ .~F _ . w~F~~One~ Lovet S.M~ - \··· . .• wanted. ibovf!) A:TLI, ... , ,, . .. ... mde at .. t,be .. same.time,, ... ,.. S. .. ooial,,, CO.mmitt~ ..... W~, ~9ne sake: W .· acka. llJ,fP. --~--- .. ,..., --- good! (Fucktm if they can't Marley: Is,..ynur .. \ .. secretary ... : ....... ro.theJi!enthouse.-.Thanks for. Tinat Conm;atulatioos to .. m}t .. take a joke!..) Kelly ap.d P~ul: Birthday sleeping or what? -J.C. . .. . the best .4th floor ever.~AV ' bestest friend. Much happiness greetings from the hole. Moi. .,.,. . .• . ;· .... _ ••••...•. <-·· .... . • . - alway$ 1 AQ.e. .n. · Maibe · \ve .should have .. P~~ .• ·.-:_:'_.·\ .. ¥c. i<J_: .. u.· ··a.s ... ~_,k .. _ -~_.:_·. ~f--~~.L ~tl ·· , · . . Bey, ~--tl1'l·u$~~.-.v'Qu Iars · ... . ....... · .. . · . . ·· ~ stJ.tek t~ be~~ strictlY ~@~~ .. ·· ··are terrffiC':-CT:t. · J ···· ·· •• a-:V; mtFltn'iim,llO'v~y()tt~an<f · bttt£-canttsay\lbav{); ... an}t,maJ&r ·th=~~=~;:~=,;=·· ·.;-·~t·~;id~W~:,,,l~~-;~.~$~ittg~, . ==:~:=ve,atwayst tU~11. i~ ·· =~; .. • ~-,lt·w~.aninteresting Jay and B.C. ItJs so nice of · y&u guys to want:to take · · . · tt> . dinner! Pm available anytime!! LO:v~ YOUr CR partio'n ·· ' · ... -· · ytlu:. T!nmX· ·f<W th~' Nite.:llt:e-s; ·· ' · ' ' ,.;..;..._..._-.,:;.,.., ·\*'\ ·-·· _ ......... ....__ __ Love, The Penthouse. Ronnie and Tine, Yes, GirJs.! You did really see . . . love those little, little, wonderful little, beautiful little Karen: . Do .... y~ii use shampoo? · darol-Hey, midget~ is it true you wear Wonder Woman rl, tJnderons? ···· · ·· ·· pe_ .. . . . . Elissa-Is it still in your un- M. Silver: Have I got a story derwear drawer? Guess :who for you! ' knows? -------------~---- D.M•-¥ou a~e- my favorite · CL-1'11 give him a quarter for. . \counselor/' .Put please fail for the bubble. gum . machine and mell. Lov-e always, M.T.D. you'll get your ring, dontt wo-rry .. Wh}' the Hell is be so God .. damn wekdll _ Kev, Happy Anniversary! It>s been thr~ beautiful .and fun- filled years. Here's to- an~er tbree and many more after. Sue~ I think, so~ebow or another~ we've made it through ancther year. How have we managed to deal is what I want to know? I don't think I can survive another two like these .• Job Prospects • • • Continued from page 3 University Placement Service showed that on-campus recruiters were least impressed with the \preparedness\ of liberal arts students. Not enough of them . demonstrate their skills during the interview, the survey foUFld. rat\l-latiQnS. Love the HER with HTh:U t t'\i~r ' ··a·· 1-&ini}::· ·»Lriv~' ·.. . . ... , ., ,· . ~ p1 ' .·. livklttnex,t door to you guys. rn nllSSYa hO'th. Best Of' luCk! :Me The Pertfbouse '31-Noone tops us! Alicia-COngrats on PBK! Now we all know you're a closet nerd-Penthouse. J.S.F .W.-Happy Annivers- ary! Tbis year was greatt hope next year will be· be!ter. Lc>ve always, ted · R.JK- .. Now that your seperated, bow about a spring fling? WHW Secret Admirer~-Please ·identitY' yourself. I'm dying to know. M.K. Suzuki-l'm really glad that we're going to be neighbors next year. Love, Cindy . · Mikey- Tbis one's from me. rn always love ycu. Love, Me Welcome to the family, Bacon! (This Sl)unds like a rerun!} Hey •.. T-Good luck in the future. See ya at Beezer's sometime? Carlisle Also Teachers • • • elwome. analc:<l.)AlJs. Ness-Iiove you . • • .:.Narf Cindy-Let rne roll you in those chickens to make up for that little stropping cart in- cident. -Narf Robobins-C'mon over and see my \LIFTY~' women in 31\D. -Narf ODD- Oodles of boo . . . , sorry, I f()rgot! -Narf Hose'e-He's wen ..• See ya in September. Watch out for S's. Engineers to Work Sooner (CPS) - The most job offers for 1981 graduates will be in \those area~ quantitative in nature,\ that encompass \logical thinking, working with problems, and contributing toward their solution,\ predicts John Sofie, director of the University of Alabama's Career Planning and Placement Service. Sofie predicts that data processing, accounling, finance and marketing skills iii par- ticular will be in the largest demand this summer, in ad- dition to the seemingly ever- present need for engineers of all types. At the University of_ New Mexico, engineering students - who compose one-tenth of the school population ..... get about 60 percent of all the job offers made to UNM students. Moreover, the job market for engineers increases at a yearly rate faster than any -other profession. A March report by the College Placement Council estimates last year's increase in engineering hiring at 16 percent over 1979. The entire pet~;oleum and allied products industries hired 34 percent more individuals in both engineering and administrative management in 198p, adds Jack Shingleton of Michigan State. The newest wrinkle in the job market is that many experts predict an increase in demand for teachers within the next five years. The National Center for Education Statistics says the education colleges will be graduating less than one-half the teachers they were a decade ago. But in the meantime, however, the demand - which has dropped steadily since 1970 - - will start climbing as the products of the 1950s baby boom begin having children of their own. NCES estimates the supply of new teachers to be 780,000 in 1984-88, about 78,000 fewer than the projected demand. Even now, 37 states, mostly in the booming south and south- west, complain of teacher shortages, according to the National Education Association. Currently, the market Not only do such students often excel in managerial positions, but they reach management level earlier in their careers than those people with technical backgrounds, according to Beck. A study of 20-year AT & T employees showed 43 percent of the former liberal arts majors had reached \midmanagement level,\ while only 23 percent of business majors attained tbat status. Commencement Speaker . • • remains strong for students in all health-related fields, especially nursing. Agriculture and Science report a balance between new graduates and predicted openings, but job prospects are particularly bright for holders of advanced science degrees . Although liberal arts studen~s do make good managers m tinie, IBM's Tom Horton warns that such a ·broad education ''may not help an individual get his. first]ob.\ Indeed, a survey of 562 business and government agencies by the Michlgan State Continued from page 1 ..., Union will award Selzer an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree. Betty Allen, bailed as .\one of the mdst gifted mezzo sopranos of our day,\ is executive director of the Harlem School of the Arts and is on the faculty of both the North Carolina School of the Arts ii} Winston-salem and The Manhattan School. Allen's career began when she won a scholarship to Tanglewood; where she was selected by Leonard Bernstein to sing his \Jeremiah\ Sym~ phony. She has given concerts and opera performances around the world 1 sharing the stage with leadmg conductors and , opera companies. She has also appeared with the Union College Glee Clubs. Allen and · her husband, R. Edward Lee, reside in New York City, and they have two children. Allen will receive an honorary Doctor of Music degree at 'Union's commencement ceremonies. According to a survey titled \Recruiting Trends\ published by Michigan State, the market is tightest for communication, human ecology, liberal arts, and social science majors. In all categories, however, · prospects are slightly better for minorities and women.

I r' p • • . - ~ . ' ,, .......:.. ~ :;. 0 ·\\' :...t.'>,' l l j l f' ' Larry: Here's to good old human em{)tion and knowing what to say . . • ThaJlks...M . Downstairs: rve heard of musical beds but this is ridiculous l-U pstairs J..C. There's something wrong. I'm still craving chocolate! Mel Rob: Is Aruba still on? Andrewshka: Good Luck·~ your S.M. . Willy and Tom: Break a leg! . Love, S.M. Marky: Is your secretary sleeping or what? -J.C. Paul: You asked for it! -B. E. Jodes: Happy related bir- thday! -Your traveling com- panion Melvin: Do you mean Bobby Watson, son of old Bobby , . Watson, Bobby Watson's · what? Foxy: Hi ya stranger! Katen: Do you use pert shampoo? M. Silver: Have I got a story for you! D.M.-You are my favorite \counselor but please fall for men. Love always, M.T.D. Wht the Hell is he so God- damn weird! ! Kev, Happy Anniversary! It's been three beautiful and fun- filled years. Here's to anotQ.er three and many more after. Love, Sharon \ 1 Tom and MaryJ Union won't. OONOORDIENSIS. May !8, 1981 • Ices Oaks Seniors: I'll Miss Ya. Who sent the book? 2. Who G.D.L wrote the personals? Bo-Youtve almost made it through the first year! rm glad I was able to share it with you. ILY 3rdF's-·You've been great friends! You're each very special. Best to you always, B JRHA&H--A special year, with special friends; I couldn't have asked for more. Thanks for always being there. Love, B. To the girl with no ... , Sur- prise! Here's the personal you wanted. Love, ATL To the Penthouse-Thanks for tile best 4th floor ever .-AV Hey, Penthouse--You guys are terrific.-CTL · Hi David-We loved having you. Thanx for the Nite-lites. Love, The Penthouse~ If it wasn't for me, you guys would have roasted. I think I'll be a fireman. Carol-Hey, midget, is it true you wear Wonder Woman Underoos? Elissa-Is it still in your un- derwear drawer? Guess who knows? CL-·Pll give him a quarter for the bubble gum machine and you'll get your ring, don't W{}rry. Sue, I think, SGmehow or another~ we've made it through another year. How have we managed tc deal is what I want to know? I don ~t. think I can survive another two like these .• Cay and Dina-Congrats on M.V.P.-US Sbanda Lea·wWe're gonna miss your Southern drawl, woman! Love, The Penthouse Hey Fuzzy Cheeks, I lQ-ve ya! ! Sbroomin' lately? Sharon, .Been biking lately with B.B.B. (Maybe he'll get a flat tire! ) Good luck, Lov~ Anne Dorp, Can you read and bike ride at the same time? Tina, Congratulations to my bestest friend. Much happiness always, Ade. D. V. in Florida, I .love you and miss you. Love always, D.M. in Schenectady. Ronnie and Tine, Congratulations. Love the Penthouse. T-bar and T..Scrap, Loved living next door to you guys. I'll miss ya both. Best of luck! Me The Penthouse '81-Noone tops us! Alicia-Congrats on PBK! Now we all know you're a closet nerd-Penthouse. J.S.F.W.-Happy Annivers- ary! This year was great, hope next year will be better. Love always, Ted RJK--Now that your seperated, how about a spring fling? WHW Regulations prohibit the sale of x-branded materials to people who wear alligators! Su-z.Q-We hid 50,000 dollars i.n. your room, find it before graduation, it,s yours. Two Guys has a sale on shovels. Rickles-Beware llf the green balloons they have their sights .._on you and they're looking for a mate. Maybe they are on route 7. B.C. If you leave me, don't ever expect another personal from me! Social Committee-We done gooo! (Fuck'm if they can't take a joke! ) D. Maybe we should have stuck to being strictly friends, but I can't say I have any major regrets ... It was an interesting year. C. Yes, Girls! You did really see HER with HIM! t \1''-llap-py 11 months!-\M\ Secret Admirer--Please identify yourself. I'm dying to know. MJ{. Suzuki-l'm really glad that we're going to be neighbors next year. Love, Cindy Mikey-This one's from me. I'll always love you. Love, Me Welcome to the family, Bacon! (This sounds like a rerun!) Hey ... T-Good luck in the future. See ya at Beezerts sometime? Garlisle Lynne,·Good luck next year. Also Teachers . . . Page 9 . ~- ....,. ~ . \ Kel-Next time we go for Chinese,. wear the brown suit. Dems Kel-No, don't. I lied. Glenn-Chris Gaynor:, Paul Sabatino, Keith Feltman, Steven Lief, Kelly Liese, and Cory Smith. Hey Gang, Where's the soap?? Betty--1'11 miss the rag sessions. Dems Usa, Tom, Ellen: One last · Wacka-Wacka for old time's sake: Wacka-Wacka. OMP. Kelly and Paul: Birthday greetings from the hole. Moi. Jay and B.C. It's so nice ()f you guys to want to take me out to dinner! I'm available anytime! ! Love you, CR . . . love those little, little, wonderful little, beautiful little chrome anal balls. Ness--I love yGu ..• -Narf Cindy-Let me roll you in those chickens to make up for that little shopping cart in- cident. -Narf Robobins-C$mon over and see my ''LIFTYH women in 3-D. -Narf ODD- Oodles of boo ... , sorry, I forgot! -Narf Hose' e-He's well ... See ya in September. Watch out for 3's. ! . be the same witllmrtyuu~ Best of luck-We love you! We're gonna miss you I Love, Us above you. Dana, Helen and Mary, Ronniet your taste in rJngs is Another great year, You women afl. lovely as your taste in are churcet Love1 Ellen. w-omen. Love, A Friend. Engineers to Work Sooner Cory~ue-Erin Go B~agb and J.V.-8leeping and Calculus Vive La Francel-ClariSa go together well-Believe me. · Love~ A.L. Staff, y()U were great. Thanks·~n and Clare. But, is it OIL?? To the Penthouse and anyone else involved-Two questions: 1. Job Prospects ... Continued from page 3 University Placement Service showed that on-campus recruiters were least impressed with the \preparedness\ of liberal arts students. Not enough of them demonstrate their skills during the interview, the survey found. (CPS) - The most job offers for 1981 graduates will be in \those areas quantitative in nature,\ that encompass ''logical thinking, working with problems, and contributing toward their solution,\ predicts John Sofie, director of the University of Alabama's Career Planning and Placement Service. Sofie predicts that data processing, accounting, finance and marketing skills in par- ticular will be in the largest demand this summer, in ad- dition to the seemingly ever- present need for engineers of all types. At the University of New Mexico, engineering students - who compose one-tenth of the school population- get about 60 Not only do such students often excel in managerial positions, but they reach management level earlier in their careers than those people with technical backgrounds, according to Beck. A study of 20-year AT & T employees showed 43 percent of the former liberal arts majors had reached \midmanagement level,\ while only 23 percent of business majors attained that status. Commencement Speaker • Although liberal arts students do make good managers in time, IBM's Tom Horton warns that such a broad education \may not help an individual get his first job.\ Indeed, a survey of 562 business and government agencies by the Michigan State Continued from page 1 Union will award Selzer an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree. Betty Allen, hailed as .\one of the most gifted mezzo sopranos of our day,\ is executive director of the Harlem School of the Arts and is on the faculty of both the North Carolina School of the Arts in Winston-Salem and The Manhattan School. Allen's career began when she won a scholarship to Tanglewood, where she was selected by Leonard Bernstein to sing his \Jeremiah\ Sym- phony. She has given concerts and opera performances armmd the world, sharing the stage with leading conductors and percent of all the joiJ offers made to UNM students. Moreover, the job market for engineers increases at a yearly rate faster than any other profession. A March report by the College Placement Council estimates last year's increase in engineering hiring at 16 percent over 1979. The entire petroleum and allied products industries hired 34 percent more individuals in both engineering and administrative management in 1980, adds Jack Shingleton of Micbigan State. The newest wrinkle in the job market is that many experts predict an increase in demand for teachers within the next five years. The National Center for Education Statistics says the education colleges will be graduating less than one-half • • opera companies. She has also appeared with the Union College Glee Clubs. Allen and her husband, R. Edward Lee reside in New York City, and they have two children. Allen will receive an honorary Doctor of Music degree at ·Union's commencement ceremonies. the teachers they were a decade ago. But in the meantime, however, the demand - which has dropped steadily since 1970 • - will start climbing as the products of the 1950s baby boom begin having children of their own. NCES estimates the supply of new teachers to be 780,000 in 1984-88, about 78,000 fewer than the projected demand. Even now, 37 states, mostly in the booming south and south· west, complain of teacher shortages, according to the National Education Association. Currently, the market remains strong for students in all health-related fields, especially nursing. Agriculture and science report a balance between new graduates and predicted openings, but job prospects are particularly bright for holders of advanced science degrees. According to a survey titled \Recruiting Trends'' published by Michigan State, the market is tightest for communication, human ecology, liberal arts, and social science majors. In all categories, however. prospects are slightly better for minorities and women.

Page 10 OQNOORDIENSJS, May £8, 1981 A Success: D'Andrea Concludes By PAUL GROSSMAN regarding Union's commitment to the performing arts? They know We're there. Living on campus has its benefits for us. It's already become com- mon for us' to run down to the Skellar to get some hamburgers and french fries, Salt Talks This is the last of a two-part interview with Vice President of Academic' Affairs Thornas J. D'Andrea. The interview at- tempts to show something of the man that affects so much of what happens here at Union. The first part of the interview · concentrated on the respon- sibilities of the job, the problems and the headaches, as well as the enjoyable aspects of the job. The rest of the in- terview is an attempt to show some aspects of the man outside the administration building. C: Turning away from your headaches, after just a few appearances, people are regarding you as one of the best drummers here at Union. It appears as if it serves as a great release from the pressures of your job. Is t~at accurate'? D'A: Well of course I'm biased on the music side. From the dramatic productions I've seen since I've been here, the talent is there and seems to be drawn out well. The in- strumental program I'm a little disappointed in. I mean, there is none. I'm not too worried about the clubs. They have systematic rehearsals and that sort of thing, But the liberal arts colleges in the east have generally been slow in this area. They have of course em- phasized the academic side of the performing arts, but not so much the performing side. C: You now live in Whitaker House behind South Donn. Was that a conscious decision, to live so close to students? C: Is there anything that you'd like to add to the in- terview, Dr. D'Andrea? D'A: I think that we've been very thorough. I've en)oyed this very much. I've found that you start to get patriotic very rapidly about this. place. I caught myself last week when I was out in Minnesota speaking at a University and' some people asked me where Schenectady was and started ribbing me about Union. I soon · found myself giving them the whole spiel about the history of Schenectady and Union. I think that the college grips you that way. ·- Last week, the thirty-fifth SALT talk was concluded at 1:30 p.m. in the Physics lounge at. Union College. SALT, or· Scie.ntif.ic American Lunch Time. discussions are the Phy~ies department' s- answer to keeping prc;>fessors abreast of the latest developments in the field. Since the regu}ar work day occupies most of the professor's time, they are hard pressed to keep up with the latest research that is written up in the journals. What has been done to alleviate this problem is to ask each professor to pick an article or report; and to make a presentation _of it at the SALT meeting that occurs every week. Last -week, Professor Newman discussed the phenomena of the Rideborg . L~beral Arts Majors: atom. This . is an artificially created, highly excited atom that demonstrate.s a number ·of special pro~rties. Throughout the presentation, the professors present discussed the significance and technical details of the experiments that had been carried out to illustrate the point. To.pl~s that have been discussed· have run the gamut from ast'ronomy to sub-atornic particles. The topic is the. choice of the professor who is to do the presentation. So far, the program has been a success, helping the facUlty to keep in touch with what is happening elsewhere in the field without eXhausting what little time they have left after their normal work load. D' A: Yes, I guess ·you could say that it is a release. I .really enjoy it. I get a great deal of satisfaction from it. I really enjoyed playing under Hugh Allen Wilson in the King David D'A: Well, the decision to li've on campus certainly was a conscious one and I knew that -Whitaker House was the place available to us. We have al:ways Job Prospects ,Better I soon found myself giving them the whole spiel about the history of Schenectady and Union. I think that the college grips you that way. concert. For one thing, it was a chance that I won't get too of- ten, ·to play the concert repertoire. I went off the other night in Saratoga to play a session with some very good players that I met. And I play with Charlie Tidnlarch and Ned Rosen and both of them are really good. · C: Are you going to continue to make those public ap- pearances? D' A: I hope so. I would like to do that on an even more regular basis. Some of them are leaving, but I'm sure there will always be someone who we can find to play. I wouldn •t mind playing more often. C: How do you feel as both a performer and as Vice President of Academic Affairs lived on a campus. The children were raised on campuses and we like it. At Haverford we were more on the perimeter. I would say that Last night was the first time that I cam close to making a phone call. I got into bed at about 12:30, and someone turned on their stereo very loud. But it only lasted about twenty minutes, one side of a record. I guess whoever it was came home and wanted to hear his favorite record and that was it. We hear the other noise on campus but it comes from all sides. My daughter practices the piano and the flute, sometimes at 7:00 in the morning. We haven't heard any complaints, yet. Saturdays and Sundays too. The relationship that exists now is very good. (CPS) -- D efy1ng recent trends and statistics, job prospects for .liberal arts majors may be improving as businesses and industries begin to look for people to populate \the other side of the field;\ according to career placement ex:perts. Moreover, observers find that although liberal arts graduates have a harder time getting their first job, th~y usually are promoted .to management positions faster than graduates from technical fields. Gerry Phaneus of Texas Tech's placement office says that liberal arts majors, with their \broad base of knowledge\ and \strong communication skills,~. are increasingly considered best for most kinds of entry-level positions. Phaneus speculates that the trend will continue despite last year's grim statistics, which showed a decrease of 11 per.cent in the number of job offers to 1980 liberal arts grads. The reason, he says, is that even highly technical companies now need people for the ad- THIS COULD BE YOUR LUCKY DAY ·An Air Force ROTC scholarship canmean a lot when you need help with college finances. It pays tuition, books and lab fees .. and gives you $100 a mo~th for other college costs. The Air Force ROTC Detaclunent at RPI has one. Scholarship .J..eft to give to a Union College sophomore. If you are majoring in engineering, math, physics, or computer science and have at least a 2.5 Cum GPA, then this really is your lucky day. See what we offer, then show us offer in return. It just might be what you can our lucky day ·too! Call: Capt Tel: Doug Kewcr 270-6236 RO'TC Gateway to a great way of life. ministrative sides of the fields. The \ability to synthesize ·information\ may be the liberal arts grad's most marketable skill, notes · Robert Beck of American Telephone & Telegraph. It makes the grad a- good candidate for man positions. A Devc Elvis Costell-o PbH Collins \Dave.Edm.ood$.. . . Greg,.Ktb.n .. ianc.. .. .. . . ..~.· .. · ... \ti,tr.;j~)\U!.J,M:ti;$.1$., recent study of 6,000 . 1980 graduates presently employed at AT & T graded liberal arts scholars as _having the greatest .potential in interpersonal and administrative skills, in- tellectual ability and motivation. Continued on page 9 liveEP Trust Face> Value. -- H :rwangjn~, .. ,., •. •· '\'···· ••••..•. u. . \'\\Y\·R.P¢tiMt.QU ... ~, · Union athlet the decade of t hopes of SUCCI that the rect year proved stepping .stone future. Despit football (1~7) a 1) suffered seasons, we m1 total of eigl graduating J squads; six fro: freshmen sta1 head coach J€ dozen others third year I Morrison. Witt seasons behint looking forw tougher sche< with improved .. Q! c 1.. Q! .J c: Q! > Qj ..... <ll >- .0 0 .. 0 .>::. a. 1- «J c:: 1.. «J ..J c:: «J > <1.1 - IJ') >- .0 0 .... 0 -a .... <II c:: 1.. Q) ..J ID > 2 Vl >- ..0 0 - 0 .c: Q. All year two play This YE many' I This yec season. t season·'s

Page 10 CONOORDIENSIS, May $8_, 1981 D'Andrea Concludes By PAUL GROSSMAN This is the last of a two-part interview with Vice President of Academic Affairs Thomas J. D'Andrea. The interview at- tempts to show something of the man that affects so much of what happens llere at Union. The first part of the interview concentrated on the respon- sibilities of the job, the problems and the headaches, as well as the enjoyable aspects of the job. The rest of the in- terview is an attempt to show someaspectsofthe man outside the administration building. C: Turning away from your headaches, after just a few appearances, people are regarding you as one of the best drummers here at Union. It appears as if it serves as a great release from the pressures of your job. Is that accurate? regarding Union's commitment to the performing arts? D'A: Well af course I'm biased on the music side. From the dramatic productions I've seen since I've been here, the talent is there and see~ns to he drawn out well. The in- strumental program I'm a little disappointed in. I mean, there is none. I'm not too worried about the clubs. They have systematic rehearsals and that sort of thing. But the liberal arts coUeges in the east have generally been slow in this area. They have of course em- phasized the academic side of tae performing arts, b1:1t not so much the performing side. C: You now live in Whitaker House behind South Dorm. Was that a conscious decision, to live so close to students? They know we're there. living on campus has its benefits for us. It's already become com- mon for us' to run down to the Skellar to get some hamburgers and french fries. C: Is there anything that you'd like to add to the in- terview, Dr. D'Andrea? D'A: I think that we've been very thorough. I've enjoyed this very much. I've found that you start to get patriotic very rapidly about this place. I caught myself last week when I was out in Minnesota speaking at a University and some people asked me where Schenectady was and started ribbing me about Union. I soon found myself giving them the whole spiel about the history of Schenectady and Union. I think that the college grips you that way. A Success: Salt Talks Last week, the thirty-fifth SALT talk was concluded at 1:30 p.m .. in the Physics lounge at Union College. SALT, or Scientific American Lunch Time discussions are the Physics department's answer to keeping professors abreast of the latest developments in the field. Since the regular work day 0ccupies most of the professor's time, they are hard pressed to keep up with the latest research that is written up in the journals. What has been done to alleviate this problem is to ask eac:b professor to pick an article or report, and to make a presentation of it at the SALT meeting that occurs every week. Last week, Professor Newman discussed the phenomena of the Rideborg atom. This i:s an artificially created, highly excited atom that demonstrates a number of special properties. Throughout the presentation, the professors present discussed the s~i.gnificance and technical details of the experiments that had been carried out to illustrate the point. Topics that have been discussed have run the gamut from astronomy to sub-atomic particles. The topic is the choice of the professor who is to do the presentation. So far, the program has been a success, helping the faculty to keep in touch with what is happening elsewhere in the field without exhausting what little time they have left after their normal work load. D'A: Yes, I guess you could say that it is a release. I really enjoy it. I get a great deal of satisfaction from it. I really enjoyed playing 1:1nder Hugh Allen Wilson in the King David D 'A: Well, the decision to live on campus certainly was a conscious one and I knew that .. Whitaker House was the place available to us. We have always Liberal Arts Majors: Job Prospects Better I soon found myself ~iving them the whole spiel about the history of Schenectady and Union. I think that the college grips you that way. concert. For one thing, it was a chance that I won't get too of- ten, to play the concert repertoire. I went off the other night in Saratoga to play a session with some very good players that I met. And I play with Charlie Tidmarch and Ned Rosen and both of them are really good. C: Are you going to continue to make those public ap- pearances? D' A: I hope so. I would like to do that on an even more regular basis. Some of them are leaving, but I'm sure there will always be someone who we can find to play. I would.n 't mind playing more often. C: How do you feel as both a performer and as Vice President of Academic Affairs lived on a campus. The children were raised on campuses and we like it. At Haverford we were more on the perimeter. I would say that last night was the first time that I cam close to making a phone call. I got into bed at abQut 12:30, and someone tur-ned on their stereo very loud. But it only lasted about twenty minutes, one side of a record. I guess whoever it was came horne and wanted to hear his favorite record and that was it. We hear the other noise on campus but it comes from all sides. My daughter practices the piano and the flute, sometimes at 7: 00 in the morning. We haven't heard any complaints, yet. Saturdays and Sundays too. The relationship that exists now is very good. (CPS) -- Defying recent trends and statistics, job prospects for liberal arts majors may be improving as businesses and industries begin to look for people to populate \the other side of the field,\ according to career placement experts. Moreover, observers find that although liberal arts graduates have a harder time getting their first job, they usually are promoted to management positions faster than graduates from technical fields. Gerry Phaneus of Texas Tech's placement office says that liberal arts majors, with their \broad base of knowledge\ and \strong communication skills,\ are increasingly considered best for most kinds of entry-level positions. Phaneus speculates that the trend will continue despite last year's grim statistics, which showed a decrease of 11 percent in the number of job offers to 1980 liberal arts grads. The reason, he says, is that even highly technical companies now need people for the ad- ministrative sides of the fields. The \ability to synthesize information\ may be the liberal arts grad's most marketable skill, notes Robert Beck of American Telephone & Telegraph. It makes the grad a good candidate for management positions. A recent study of 6,000 1980 graduates presently employed at AT & T graded liberal arts scholars as having the greatest potential in interpersonal and administrative skills, in- tellectual ability and motivation. Continued on page 9 WRUCTOP2:0 The Who Warren Zevon Santana Various Artists The<:lash , Steve Winwood FTetenders Devo Elvis Costello Phil CoHins Dave Edmunds Greg Kihn Eland Various Artists Garland Jeffries James Taylor Face-Dances Stand In the Fire Zebcp! Concert for Kampt~cllea Sandinista Art of a Dlv~r Extended Live EP Trusi Face Value Twang in' Rockihnrolt Secre1 Policeman's Ball Escape Artlsi Dad Loves Hls W<Jrk The above is a Jist of the most played albums at WR.UC dur the few • j '' c • • • ~ ' - • • > • ' \; • \ • • • • ' \ THIS COULD BE YOUR LUCKY DAY ·An Air Force ROTC scholarship can mean a lot when you need help with college finances. It pays tuition, books nnd lah fccs .. and gives you $100 a month for other college costs. The Air Force ROTC Detachment at RP I has one. Scholarship left to give to a Union College sophomore. If you are majoring in engineering, math, physics, 01~ computer sc icncc and have at least a 2.5 Cwn GPJ\, then this really is your lucky day. See what \vc o ffcr, then show us what you can our lucky day of fer in return. It just too! BOTC might be Ca11: Capt Tc 1: Gateway too great way of life. Doug Kcwcr 270-6236 • •• Union Union athleti the decade of tl hopes of succe , that the recE year proved stepping stone future. DespitE 1 football (1-7) a I 1) suffered · seasons, we mt total of eigh graduating f squads; six frox freshmen star head coach J o, dozen others third year n Morriscm. With seasons behinc looking forw tougher sched with improved ... (]) c .... (]) .J c (]) > (]) - <f) >- .0 0 0 .c 0. All year I two playE '~ J .... Q) c ... i ~ c Q) > Q) - V') >- .0 0 - 0 J: Q, .... Q) c .... QJ .J c: QJ > .2! ll) ::.. .Q 0 - 0 J: 0. c ' ~ ' : •': This ye many\ This yea season. !- season sl

OONOORDIENSIS. May 28~ 1981 Page 11 ,Union Athletes Begin a New 'Decade , Union athletics stepped into the decade of the '80s with high hopes of success and we feel that the recently concluded year proved to be a solid stepping .stone toward a bright future. Despite the fact that football (1~7) aQd hockey (6-21- 1) suffered through tough seasons, we must realize that a total of eight seniors are graduating from the two squads; six from faotball. Seven freshmen started for rookie head coach Joe Wirth while a dozen others saw action for third year mentor Charlie Morrison. With solid recruiting seasons behind them, each is looking forward to facing tougher schedules in 1981-82 with improved won-lost results. ... Q) c: ... Q) J ..J c: Q) > Q) +- !JI >- .Q 0 .. 0 !:, a.. Bob Magee is ~enuinely ex- cited about his chances for an NCAA soccer bid in the Fall. Only two players will graduate while Magee claims to have had an exceptional recruiting year. The soccer team won the ECAC Upstate New York Tourney in 1980. As previously mentioned;, the women's programs appear to have taken off in virtually every sport and all have a small amount of graduation losses. Bill Scanlon's basketball team finished second in Upstate New York and will graduate only one starter and a total of three seniors. Heigth, which was a major drawback this season, Will be less of a problem ,next year with the recruitment ' of a ·part of 6ft. 6in. freshmen to go along with those 6ft. 5in. underclassmen who gained va'luable playing time this year. Aside from won-loss records will be the new Astroturf multi- purpose athletic field and surrounding 400 meter resilite track. This facility will not only provide a fine playing area, it will also be a great recruiting tool for the future. New faces, both in the coaching ranks and on the playing fields, will keep Union in the limelight as the Dut- chmen and Dutchwomen teams continue to strive . for com- petitive excellence that has long been a part of Union's proud history. ~ :'\ ~ ~·· ,, , ~' All year long the Skating Dutchmen just seemed to miss the goal. But with all but 1wo players returning, a better yea r:Js expected in '81-'82. ... Q) 1:: ... Q) ..J c:: Q) > Q) - ..,., >- .0 0 - 0 .c: c. ... (!) c: I. Q) ..J ID > 2 Vl >. .0 0 - 0 !:, Q. ., This year's baseball team came on strong to finish .500. Hopefully the return of many veterans should improve next year's team's record . f First year Coach Joe Wirth's football team struggled this year but hopes for the future look bright with young per- formers like Bill Huttner. · d~, ;;: .,.foo This year's soccer team performed brilliantly and copped the ECAC tournament (,)§;;\.:~iii;;\'' ,.i This· year's lacrosse team went through a, disappointing season. However, with only 3 seniors grad~atmg, next years seasorf'should see some. improv.emen-ts. This year's womens softball team had a fine season culminating in a state playoff berth, the first in Union's history. ' _,_.. ·N ..... c:: m a: \0 ·:; m c A' 0 ... 0 J:: c. >- ... ell > <( .... c: ~ >- ..0 0 .... 0 ~ - .s::: ,g! ... s - m a.. >- ..0 0 - 0 -a ·Q

OONOORDIENSIS. May 28, 1981 I j Union Athletes Begin a New Decade I ' I t c I.. ~ OJ i .J :c:: (CLJ \ > i<IJ - rcn Union athletics stepped into the decade of the '80s with high hopes of success and we feel that tile recently concluded year proved to be a solid stepping stone toward a bright future. Despite the fact that football (1-7) aQd hockey (6-21- 1) suffered through tough seasons, we must realize that a total of eight seniors are graduating from the two squads; six from foot ball. Seven freshmen started for rookie head coach Joe Wirth while a dozen others saw action for third year mentor Charlie Morrison. With solid recruiting seasons behind them, each is looking forward to facing tougher schedules in 1981-82 with improved won-lost results. i>. !.a •o Bob Magee is genuinely ex- cited about his chances for an NCAA soccer bid in the Fall. Only two players will graduate while Magee claims to have had an exceptional recruiting year. The soccer team won the ECA.C Upstate New York Tourney in 1980. As previously mentionelt, the women's programs appear to have taken off in virtually every sport and all have a small amount of graduation losses. Bill Scanlon's basketball team finished second in Upstate New York and will graduate only oRe starter and a total of three seniors. Heigth, which was a major drawback ~his season, will be less of a problem next year with the recruitment of a part of 6ft. Sin. freshmen to ge along with thoSe 6ft. 5in. underclassmen who gained valuable playing time this year. Aside fvom won-loss records will be the new Astroturf multi- purpose athletic field and surrounding 400 meter resilite track. This facility will nat only provide a f.ine playing area, it will also be a great recruiting tool for the future. New faces, both in the coaching ranks and on the playing fields, will keep U Rion in the limelight as the Dut- chmen and Dutch women teams continue to strive for com- petitive excellence that has long been a part of Union's proud history. IQ !.c io. I All year long the Skating Dutchmen just seemed to miss the goal. But with all but two players returning, a better year is expected in '81-'82. \- Cll c: ... Cll _J c Cll ::. Cll - U) >- .0 0 - 0 .c 0. 1.. Cll c:: I.. QJ .J c Cll > 2 U) >- .0 0 - 0 .c c. '\ '' ., '': .. ;- '• This year's baseball team came on strong to finish .soo. Hopefully the return of many veterans should improve next year's team's record. . ( ; . ' I •{. Page 11 First year Coach Joe Wirth's football team struggled this year but hopes for the future look bright with young per- formers like Bill Huttner. ·_..~-' ·' .ft . ~ •'-:.~->;-).,:',:·.,..' 0<---~ . .. II\ .w:;,{(,j;~ This year's soccer team performed brilliantly and copped the ECAC tournament I . ~.o \ ,· ~,~i~ ~.\': ,.,_:•+·: \ This year's l~cro~se tea~ went through a disappointing season. However, with only 3 seniors graduating, next years season should see some improvements. This year's womens softball team had a fine season cui minating In a state playoff berth, the first in Union's history. _

Page 12 OONOORDIENSIS, May S8, 1981. . . '. . ' - ' - ., .. . '. ,\ - ' : ' . ' ~ . ' ' ' . Prize Day Winners: NOTICE Student-Athletes· Honored AH returns of any deposit money for intramural sports must be picked up in the intramural o.ffice Thursday, May 28 (today) between fhe hot:Jrs of. 10:00-12:00 a.m. and l:00-4:00 p.m. Several Union athletes were honored at Prize Day ceremonies on Saturday, May 2, at Memorial Chapel. The following is a list ol the awardS and the athletes who won them.: Eastern Colleges Athletic Conference Medal of Merit is given to an athlete who has combined excellence on the fields of competition with ex- cellence in the classroom, or outstanding service to Union College. The 1981 award was presented to junior Lynn LeBlanc. Lynn is a starter on both the volleyball and softball teams. William A. Pike Memorial Trophy is given to a junior for attitude, participation and achievement in intercollegiate sports. Junior John Montanile was· presented with the 1981 trophy. John helped lead. the basketball team to the ECAC Upstate New York. Tournament. Roilald F. Plumb Memorial Prize was awarded for the first time to a senior member of the varsity football team who best exemplifies the qualities and characteristics of Ron while a student-athlete at Union; an individual who embodies his joy of living and adventure or spirit. Dan Leff was honored with this award. Robert B. Ridings Award is presented' to a senior female athlete for her attitude, ability, parti.cipation and achievement in intercollegiate -sports at Union College. Sheila O'Donnell was presented this award for her four years of participation on the volleyball, basketball and seftball teams. WllUam B. Jaffe Medal is given to a student chosen as the outstanding male athlete >of the year, taking into account the character and motivation of the individual in addition to athletic excellence. Joe. Cardany was awarded this honor for his ·outstan~ing four-year career on the basketball: team in w~.·~ est~ blished a --:flew aU-time scoring record of 1 ,790 points. B l.,eague World Series Best of 5 Saratoga T & L ( 12-2) May 30 ~t 1 : 30 & 2·: 30 - vs. · _May 31 at 3: 30, 4:30,5:30 Sigma Phi ( 12~ 1) A League World Series Best of 5 May29 at 5:30 & 6: 3(:) May 30at 4:00, 5:00, 6:00 winner of Beavers (9-0) vs~ Chi Psi' A (7-2) vs. wirmer of ZBT (7-2) vs. Sigma Chi ~lue (8-1) lntram_ural Softball Game of t·he Wee·k By DAVEPACE This week's men's softball Jhtee singles for PSK Red and cut the lead to-one. However, They've Come a Long Way game of the week was a B league quarterfinal playoff game facing Phi Sigma Kappa Red against Sigma Phi. The game went into extra innings with Sig Phi scoring two runs in the bottom of the eighth to squeak by with a 9-8 victory. Sig Phi tallied two more runs in .the bottom of the fourth to take a 5-2 lead: PSK Red came back in the fifth iniling when. Pete DiGiorgio scored on a wild throw on Billy Haupt's single. HaUpt scored from third on a sacrifice flyby Andy Felice who was flown in from Washington, D.C.· for the game and Rich Klingler tied it up with a home run down the .right field line. Sig Phi scored two runs in the bottom ofthe sixth and took a 7- 5lead into the last inning. PSK Red was down to their final three outs but. last year's \A\ league champions were not In 1970, Union College became a coeducational institution. In 1975 women's varsity programs ·were started in volleyball, 'basketball, field hockey, soft- ball, lacrosse and women's flmnis. During the 1980-81 school year three ()£ those teams competed in New York. State tourtlaments and one other had its best record ever. Don't look now, but there's a lot more in store for next year as a total of only 15 women will graduate in June. Union College was represented in New York State tournaments by volleyball, field hockey and softball. ~·Coach Lynne Barta's volleyball squad will lose only one player 'Sheila O'DonneU) while coach Matty Morrison's field hockey team suffers the biggest loss with four graduates (Nancy Colt, Debbie Downey, Ellen Heininger and Buthaina Shukri). Coach Jane Hopkins' softball squad will lose only one, Downey. Cross country, which had a full women's team for the first time this year, will graduate three (Colleen Morris, Audrey Lewchik and Laura Kronk) from its 3-3 team while tennis loses two (Debbie Hofflich and Shelley Eckstein). Coach Morrison's lacrosse squad posted its best record ever at 8-3 and will graduate only three women (Colt,. Shukri and Mary Beth Burnett). Marty is very hopeful of qualifying for'. states next year for the first time in Union's history. Barta's hoop squad will lose only one (O'Donnell) and is expected to improve greatly on this year's 7-9 record. Soccer was 0-8 this year as a club sport, but will be given more attention as a varsity sport this coming Fall. Meanwhile, women's ,programs in both swimming and track will be expanded during the 1981-82 school year. The women's programs at Union pave certainly come a long way in a few sbort years, and they're not finished yet! PSK Red opened the scoring in the top of the third with one run but Sig Phi came back with three in the bottom of the third as Bill Singer, Dave Ginden, and Mike Maloney loaded the bases and scored on a three- base error 'by the ·PSK Red centerlielder .. In the fourth, Rich Klingler, James Danziger, and Chuck Dexter combined for. Ruggers Close With Tough Loss By MIKE SHARP The Union College Rugby Football Club took a tough loss to the Albany Knickerbockers Saturday; May 23 at home. The renowned Knick ruggers were not taking any chances against the Dutchmen and they came onto the field hitting hard and displaying the excellent offensive team skills that they are famous for. However, the Garnet ruggers were not wearing pink socks themselves and they returned ferocious blows with the Knicks. The resulting game was one of incredibly bard hitting. Enriching the Union squad were alumni l.tich Delaney and Tom Lamb, who _played superbly. Other standouts were Tom \Captain Cast\ Conway, The Dutchmen could not get who after an outstanding thirty through the Knick line for the yard broken field sprint was . remainder of the game and the brought down on his hand, - ·.final score stood · with the resulting in a broken thum:b.. .Knicks having 3 and the Dut- Neither squad dominated the game, as both teams' defense and offense played hard and made few mistakes. The closest the Dutchmen got to a score was the one-yard lin~ of the Knicks. However. Conway, visibly shaken over the possible ruination of his artistic career, comitted an offside penalty which the Knicks promptly capitalized on, scoring a three- point penalty kick. chmen having 0. The Dutchmen were . still proud of their per'- .formance· ~.against the tough Knicks despite the loss.. As a result the drinking after the game reached epic proportions. The club wishes to express its thanks to its departing seniors, Steve \Boogie'' Carter, Craig Bell, Andy Audet, Jim Heminway, and Matt Blum. Also, congratulations to new captains Tom. Conway 1 Eric Serrilli, and Dave Zaltos. Block \U\Awards Most valuable player awards for 1980-81 were handed out Friday, May 22, at the Block U sports banquet, held at the E.d.ison Club in Rexford. Those receiving MVP honors were: Fall: Henry Wright, football; Andy Dreher, soccer; Adam Licht, cross-country; Polly Wheeler, cross country; Sheila O'Donnell, volleyball; Buthaina Shukri,' field hockey; Shelley Eckstein, tennis. Winter: Joe Cardany, basketball; Don Beall, hockey; Doug MacFaddin, wrestling; Chris Meyer, swimming; Jaolt Connor, indoor track; Cay Lynch, basketball. Spring: Mike Saccocio, baseball; Sean Durham, Iac:t:osse; Jim Zalucki, outdoor track; Ed Berndt, golf; Barry Rosenberg, tennis; Nancy Colt, lacrosse; Dina Pliotis, softball. In addition to MVP awards, 21 seniors were honored for their four-year participation in a varsity sport. They incluqe: Andy Berquist, swimming; Joe Cardany, basketball; Nancy Colt, l~crosse; Jack Connor, track and cross country; Debbie Downey, field ilockey and softball; Shelley Eckstein, tennis; Bill Egan, football; Rob Fischmann, lacrosse; Steve Goll, baseball; Ellen Heininger, field hockey; Wes Jakovic, swimming; Jini Josephson, hockey; Brad Karp, >- golf; Dan Leff, football; Bill a; Mason, hockey; Sheila ~ O'Donnell, volleyball and. ..... basketball; Barry Rosenberg, - ~ tennis; Buthaina Shukri, field ~ hockey and lacrosse; Dan .5 Thomson, baseball; Henry o Wrtght, football and. track; Jim o Zalucki, track. a > The MVP awards were given - .outbythecoache1Jofeach sport. . Union Ru$Jger Jim Hemingway gains control ofthe ball • about to give up easily. With the help of a costly error by the Sig Phi right fielder, John Sam- marco and Rich Klingler were aole to score on Klingler's hit and tie the game once again. In the bottom of the seventh, Sig Phi left a man stranded on third base and the game went into extra inriings. It seemed .as though PSK Red's comeback attempt was complete when they scored in the tep of the eighth to take their first lead in the game since the third inning, However, Sig Phi was not to be denied the chance to advance to the semifinals that easily. Jack Snopkowski led off the bottom of the eighth by reaching first on an error. The next play was one of much controversy and turned out to be the turning point in the game. Bill Singer hit a hard line \\ drive in front of PSK Red left fielder Andy Felice. Felice dove for the ball and made what appeared to be a sensational catch. However, the view of both of. t)le umpire~ was blocked _bY. Feifue's sprawling body ~nd they couldn't see if he actually made the catch. After much deliberation, the umpires ~ecided that a replay was the only fair soluUon. Singer hit another shot to lefl; field but this one clearly fell in for a single. Dave Ginden . loaded up the · bases by reaching first on an error. Mike Maloney stroked a · single driving in Snopkowski for the tying run With the bases still loaded, Dan Lacoff worked out a walk forcing home · the winning· run. Mike· Maloney was named the game MVP. Mike had six putouts from his position. at .shortstQp to go along with four hits~ a run scored, and an RBI. Sig Phi went on to beat WFYL in the semifinals and will face Saratoga T & L in the finals this Saturday with the best of three · series starting at 1: 30 on .. Li~taJ;:yFi~lct , , .

Professor Sow a checks the control board of the UC-messer Card Rush Casualty This past Thursday, six students were brutally crushed and stepped on by swarms of anxious students queuing up outside of the Geology Department offices_ The \card\ in demand was the highly sought after one for Introduction to Geology. Department Secretary Myrna Klowski said, \There has always been a rush for Rocks for Jocks but my God! this year when they switched the card pickup date from Monday to Thursday, they don't know what a monster they created.\ The accident occurred at exactly 9:01 a.m. when Mrs. Klowski rose up from her seat, walked around her desk and opened the front door. The pressure released by this sent students flying forward into the office. Mrs. Klowski and five students were flattened on the ground amid cries of \out of my· way, throat\ and \drop that card or I'll break your hand.\ When the crowds finally dispersed, the thirty jubilant students who had gotten their cards helped pick up Mrs. Klowski and their fellow students. They were reported to be in stable condition in Ellis Hospital. The crowds were gathered to pick up their pre-registration permission \cards\ from the department secretary. Since Union College, a small nor- theastern liberal arts college, tries to keep their class sizes small, they limit the number of people allowed to enroll for certain courses by means of the cards. The first thirty people to arrive at the secretary's ,office will receive' cards and per- mission to take the course. This tragedy occurred in the early .morning hours of Thur- sday, May 2L The students_ began arriving outside the secretary's office as. early as GH Infects . 4:30 in the morning. By 8 a.m. the numbers of the crowd had grovvn so large that some students were forced to spill over onto the stairway. According to one eyewitness,\ I've never seen so many Poll- Sci majors together in one place.\ As a direct result of viewing, students' thoughts are un- consciously being manipulated after watching the Emmy Award-winning ''General Hospital.\ Non-viewers laugh, yet even they have noted changes in their friendss thOughts, attitudes and priorities. First, students, instead of AT THE dUB The Last Supp.ar: Surf and Burp $.00 -· fish caught fresh from the Mohawk River - bottom of the barrel salad - slurp of the day At the Ba-1: - RE EB Drafts w-card $.00 - Delayed Orgasms - free Master Chagre/ Visa, Diners Club and Union Currency. Accepted taking weekend trips home, have been driving to secluded areas--mumbling something about Beechers Corners. Talk of left-handed boys brings smiles and sudden memory flashes. In· the recent weeks, ap- plications for law school bave increased. Studies have correlated the surge, to the day, with the recent acceptance to the bar by the soap's Joe Kelly. As studies continue, no direct causal relationship has been proven as yet. In addition, the credibility of mental in- stitutions bas decreased in the minds of polled v~ewers~ The . decrease in popularity of the name \Heather has been tied to the show as well. FolloWing the lines of the gain in popularity of Chuck Mangione's song last year, the show appears to have a profound effect on its viewers. No measures to prevent the symptoms have been taken, yet the growing number of cases and concern may prove further action necessary. UC-Messer: Shell Game The administration has confirmed that work on the Union College Underground Professor Messer is almost complete. The Project (UC- Messer), has been under con- struction for the entire year. It's purpose is to scatter the professors around campus so that it is harder to find them. The system will receive the most use during finals week, registration, before graduation, and prior to major class exams. Apparently the student population has been hounding the professors to the extent that action had to be taken im- mediately. The system bas been a secret project, started by the faculty and administration when it was realized that the students were gaining access to their offices too easily. It is feared that more time may be spent with students outside of the classroom than necessary .. As a result, the UC- Messer project was undertaken. The students have been kept in the dark about the true nature of the construction in order to insure that they would not start a counter measure, or find a- way to sabotage the con- struction. Supposedly, the digging was originally designed to improve the insulation of the pipes running underground. At least this is what the student body was told. Some students questioned the motive behind the construction, even daring to -comment that it might be another \real\ project, Wlder a different name. One even suggested that it was the college's attempt to be at the rush and dig war trenches, in case of invastion from neigh- boring powers, such as RPI. This rumor was qui'ckly dispelled. The scenario af how the system will be utilized is a simple and very effective one. A student with a problem con- cerning a particular exam will knock on the professor's door. If the professor does not want to be disturbed, he or she can slip doW11 a newly installed escape shoot, that will . deposit the fugitive professor on a conveyor belt. Theconveyorbeltis part of an intricate system of belts that now .operate under the campus, running to all parts of the grounds. The professor will be quickly transported to the portion of campus of his or her choice~ away from the com- plaining student. Special facilities have been installed for those professors who want to disappear .for hours or days at a time. Toilets, kitchens, cots and desks have been installed at strategic points within the system. For example, un- derneath the Nott Memorial is a .bowling alley and OTB outlet. It cannot be said that the college is not providing adeq11ate facilities for its staff. The final touches on the project, such as carpeting and painting, are almost completed, and once the grass has grown over the raw, hay-laden spots, no one will even remember why the ditches were dug in the first place. Except the professors who will gleefully ride from place to place in an attempt to confuse the student body with displays of disappearances. If the UC-Messer project is finished, and the insulation wasn't installed, why did they put in the storm windows'? This , question will be answered in next week's issue. Feces Tidbits Yes, it is time, once again, to let throaty students beat their own breasts; time to write about Senior Feces. Biology throat, Epi Glottis, has been studying how whore moans affect their \marks.\ Says Epi, \I have discovered that there exists a vas defrens.\ Good going, Epi. Political ·-science--Astronomy major, Terri Firma, has done an internship to discover if there is intelligent life in Washington, D.C. Art major, JoMo, has been studying the history and ar- chitecture of the Nott Memorial. Reports Jo, ~'oddly enough, the tit used to be more erect in past years, but recent neglect and fire hazards have resulted in premature ex- pectations and hence lowered interest. Mo concludes that \we need to jack-up our flagging interest in stimulating this historic landmark.\ Philosophy major, I. Can't,has determined that he doesn't exist and is therefove exempt from final exams. His advisor noted that this was fortunate since his diploma also did not exist. I. Can't replied \ .\ Sociology-Physics major Quark Kent has discovered that women in bars are quantized and that this has prevented an · Ultraviolet Catastrophe in Discos. Quark is still trying, however, to glu-one-on. American Studies major, Dawn Light, received depart- mental honors for her research on the rise and fall of the American Studies Program at Union College. English-Art major Hugh Allen Nillson studied our very own FitzHugh Ludlow. Hugh found that while Fitz was a majornortheast drug dealer, he is of no literary significance whatsoever. Biology-Religion major, Nun Holier, came back from his term abroad in Molson Country having discovered a new breed of Rodentia-the Skellar Rat. While performing experimental circumcisions he collected little tiny tips. Sociology major Homo Erectus has determined that primitive cultures do exist at Alpha Delta Phi's reggae parties (also noted in the survey was a large orange hwnanoid probably from the FIJI Islands). SOCIAL NOTES: Pre-Wed major Annie D~y Now. having completed her MrS degree and having graduated in sullied white, is looking forward t!l her future life with football defensive captain Nell Anderthal.

Pa.ge 02 Who is with me on a road trip to 'Toga? Would you finish the statue already, my pits are cold. The solution to the campus dog problem. -. -DI8'l'OB-BIEN'Sl$ 1 May 88, 1981 Please may I have just~ little beer and one or two pretzels? You people are taxing my patience. I may only be a statue, but you are taxing my patience. It's this way, Ot:' the other end. Take your pick. 1980 Union College graduate finds work close to her old alma mater. Give hirr I'm flatt thing. Union t So It's c ·cottage

Give him one drink and he starts singing Welsh folk songs I'm flattered by theoffer,~but Dean of Students just isn't my thing. Union to offer CPR course -i 51\--3~--~Uli I 101 So it's decided, three corn beef on rye, a pastrami, and s,ome ·cottage cheese for Bob over' here, .. \ Famous sports figure tells of locker room sights There are too manv books in this .goddamn librarv- Just tell'em you're Jerry Lewis and the money comes rot ling in.

Page D4· DI8TORDIENS18, May es, 1981 Spring· Spread Out: Butter Up Them Thighs By GLUTEUS MAXIMUS Well, it's springtime (for those of you locked in yow- refrigerators). Yet there's still time left to waddle on over to Price Chopper and restock on those essential dietary items like Oreos, Brownies, Peanut Butter, Ice Cream, French Fries, etc. You ·must un- derstand that it is crucial to consume these items in mass quantities in order t() attain those thunder thighs so necessary for the obese look that is so chic this year. Vitamin Y supplements are also popular for those on the hirsute diet. With swim wear fashions even skimpier this year, we need those extra bumps, bulges. and cellulite in order to overflow with that special radiance-so unique to the flabby person. If you have nqt yet gained. those 20, 10 or even 5 pounds before you reach your goal, you can maximize your flabbiness so that you will appear even heavier than you are. Yes, it's possible to achieve that gargantuan look by wearing too tight pants, shirts or blouses with hori2ontal stripes, bright clothing (especially pants)-just about anything that lets you ''all hang out.\ A special auditory benefit ensues when you wear cor- duroys ovec your new-found flab. Of course, as you gain those wanted pounds, just about any material will work in Science and Medicine: T~ght Jeans A Hazard Tight jeans may cause vaginitis, a health hazard af~ fecting one out of five women. And summertime increases the hazard. vaginitis include sexual con- tact, towels and washrag~ used by others, vitamin and diet deficiencies that weaken resistance, prolonged use of antibiotic and steroid medications-like birth control pills--irritating douches, and diabetes. · harmony with your thighs to produce the true cacophony of a herd of stampeding elephants. It.'s important that one not only consume immense quantities of food but also that one not exercise. l.f the urge to move your overweight body overwhelms yau--stop--t~ about how far this will.~you back on your road Ultimate flabbiness. Afte you realize that the · ate satisfaction of movinft..will not exceed the long-tenn effects of weight loss, you will no longer want to move. Instead, treat yourself to a chocolate cake. Remember, if all else fails and you can't count calories. multiply them. I. ~ ' ' This woman is well on her way to obtaining her goal of complete, total, sensuous flabbiness Tarts and Yogurt: John Blair Smith John Blair Smith. It hurts to write that name. Hurts my left nut to type it. I want .to tell you a story. No, it's not about a man named Eustas; but God knows he deserves more ink than this rag can afford. Unfortunately, the name of Smythe may drop out Want a laugh? Think of some seniors you know and what they're doing next year. Come to think of it, it's not so funny. Our number will be up soon, and by that time, we'll be so god- damn far behind we'll have to do extra lines. Who has extra lines? Hot weather, wet bathing suits, pantyhose, tight jeans, and synthetic underpants that don't \breathe\ all provide the incubating environment that causes vaginitis or in- flammation of the vagina. About half the cases of vaginitis are caused by monilia, a yeast infection; with symp- toms of itching, burning, and abnormal discharge. Head Lines of a few people's vocabularies, and even out of a few feeble minds. Not the minds of Smythies though. The average Smythie mind is not ~ simple thing. We're sharp. You laugh, \Ha about as sharp as puppy's puke.'' I bet Housing thought we got rid of that puppy. Wrong. He's in the basement. Been there for a while naw, you guessed it-he's dead. We had to keep him quiet somehow. He reeks something serious, and he's full of maggots. But he is still a puppy, and puppies are fun. The cat seems to enjoy him. Matter of fact, the cat needs. him. The cat needs · anything that moves and is hot; it's been a hot month. This is it. Some of us won't return. A few -of us never arrived. We all have to get a firm grip on reality and try to figure out w;hat it is and what it means. One more thing. What I said about the dog isn't true. I'm sorry. It's not nice to make fun of a blind puppy. Just in time for the vaginitis season is a new, quick, treat- ment for monilia. Treatment has been cut from 14 ... to 7: . . now to 3 days as a result of the FDA's approval of Mycelex-G 3- day therapy. This is especially helpful for the average woman who is apt to discontinue treatment when the symptoms subside, usually within three days, but before the infection is eliminated. The abbreviated treatment calls for insertion in the vagina of two 100 mg. Mycelex-G clotrimazole tablets for three consecutive days. With vaginitis so prevalent and the need for quick treat- ment in demand, it finally seems like science has come up with a treatment that is just what the patient ordered. Other common causes of 1.. <11 1:1 >- c V) / . By'DEEP THROAT {Untimely Press Ignorant)- Secretary of State Vague, in an effort to re-Machoize our foreign policy declared war on Lesotho. Vague pointed out how Lesotho endangers our merely authoritarian ally, South Africa, by surrounding it from the inside. Declared Vague, \We gotta keep the Red Tide away from our clams.\ Analysts feel this is a new ap- proach to shoring up the Clam Gap. ++Secretary What (in the hell is he doing) paved over Everglades National Park, in order to allow tour buses through. Orders also went out to cut down the Smokey Mountains in order to fulfill the . new Environmental Prevention Act. -On Capital Hill, Senator (nobody's at the) Helm declared war on the twentieth century. Jerky Feelwell, founder of the Mischievous Plurality, backed Senator Helms, declaring him a true American Patriarch in the tradition of \Bull\ Connor, Sheriff Clark, and J.R. Ewing. -scholars working at the Anal Roberts Seminary discovered that the Panama Canal and SALT II treaties, most of the Great Society, Charles Darwin and the Enlightenment Period are condemned in the New~y New Testament. -The House declared today that all eggs and sperm are United States citizens. The Consensus Bureau took ap- propriate action by awarding Burt Reynolds's · left testicle three Congressmen. -On a similar note, Phyllis Shapel; pr- •mised to shut up and just be a housewife. Anyhow, I was telling a story. It was a story about the cat, and I gave away the ending. The bottom line is this: we have this cat, a she cat, and she needs it so bad that she writhes on the floor and spreads her furry little legs while we're eating dinner. Sometimes it's disgusting, especially when a pair of burly tomcats get her cornered. ~ Another thing. Smythe is r never going to end. There is no cureior the kind of sickness we all have. Good luck. Oh, and one last thing. Barkity Bark. Social Note: THE PUB is proud to announce that WILL ROTH'S LONELY HEARTS CLUB BAND has agreed to a return engagement. Special guest artists include noted drummeri'Doc'' D' An-delion. Comestibles provided by Blades Butterstein. This issue was brought to you by ·• . .

