the of losses · eading game. 154 should at if he pace. is in for\ the 79, in ex- been uries a and be in a he is arne. will Jon a a 6 9 a 88 ould and a I James Taylor Concert Set Here Feb. 28 The Concert Committee has signed musician James Taylor -to appear in concert at Proc- tor's Theatre Saturday night, ·Feb. 28. Tickets for the event will go on sale to Union students next Monday, Fell. 9. They will be available exclusively to College students for $10 apiece through .Feb. 11, after which they will go on sale to the general public for $12 each. \Union students will get a choice of the best seats,\ ex- plained Concert Committee Co- Chairperson Seth Oringher. Proctor's has a . capacity of approximately 2,600, he added. The decision to schedule one Student Forum: weU-known hi-gh-paid per~ former, rather than several lesser-known and less- expensive ones, as has :been done in the past, was made this term in response to a student survey the Concert Committee to-ok at Winter Term registration. Slightly more than ,half the students answering the survey indicated they preferred one large concert this tenn. ·~James Taylor is touring now,\ Oringher said, \and we submitted the highest bid from this area.\ The 32-year-old Taylor released his first album, en- titled \James Taylor,\ in 1969. Distributed by the Beatles' Apple Rec.ord Company, it included the single ''Carolina in My Mind\ and Paul McCartney on bass backgrounds. Prior to this, Taylor had gone through bouts with mental illness and drug abuse. These experiences provided the subject matter for several of his later compositions. \Sweet Baby James,\ the singer's second album, ap- peared in the spring of 1970, to generally favorable reviews. One critic, in \Saturday Review,'' wrote that \the songs are delightful and enriching. Taylor remains at his best unraveling personal situations that are universal in ap- Considers Finals Schedules By SUSAN BLOOMBERG and NAOMI BLANK A proposal for self-scheduled final examinations was brought bef()re the Student Forum Monday night, February 2, by Thomas J. D'Andrea, Vice- President for Academic Affairs. Self-scheduled examinations are a feature of many college campuses and Dr. D'Andrea noted the success he has found under this system elsewhere. The vice president has found the faculty here receptive to the proposal and feels that the issue deserves some consideration. The issue has also been brought before the Academic Affairs Committee (AAC), and the Student Activities Council (SAC) for discussion. D~ Andrea explained various aspects and alternatives to his particular proposal before the Formn and concluded that if enough interest were generated, \the initiative for it and work behind it would have to come from the student body.\ The proposal, according to D'Andrea, can appear \deceptively simple.\ As it stands, the proposal suggests that there be a five-day examination period at the end of each term. There would be a sign-up for examination times near the end of each term. A stipulation might be that larger classes would he required to take the examination in the first three days of the examination period, in order to ensure the instructor sufficient time for grading. It is also suggested that in the spring term, seniors be required to take their exams in the first three days to meet all commencement deadlines. An important aspect of this system, according to Dr. D'Andrea's proposal, is that there is an \obligation not to discuss the' form, content or degree of difficulty of their exams during the examination period.\ This proposal would be ad- vantageous in many ways, he ·s·aid. It would eliminate scheduling problems because every student would schedule their own exams. It would be beneficial to the faculty, in that less time would be required for proctoring, and grading could start immediately. Most importantly, this option would give students an op- portunity to make more of their own decisions. This system would give students \control over their own education and a somewhat larger measure of the faculty's confidence in their ability to use such control.\ The proposal, as it stands, is only a general overview of ways Continued on page 4 Canipus Security: plication. He is endeavoring to solve his own problems and, in the process, to help lift the weight of ours.\ Among tne songs on that album, which received five Grammy nominations, was \Fire and Rain,\ whose lyrics express Taylor's pain in ac- cepting the suicide ef a girl he knew. By early 1971, \Sweet Baby James\ had sold some 1.6 million copies. Since that time, Taylor married singer-songwriter Cady Simon, in November 1972, and has recorded a nwnber of albums, most recently \JT\ in 1977 and \Flag\ in 1979. This past fall, the Boston native played a series of benefit concerts for independent presidential candidate John Anderson. Explaining his decision to enter the political arena, Taylor said that he supported Anderson because \ be's the closest thing to a populist we can hope fer. And he is open-minded.\ Taylor continued, \Two-party politics is dealing us really bad choices. If people don't get involved and find someone to represent them in this country, we will certainly not have a democracy, if we have one now.\ February 5, 1981 Volume 110, Number 13 • • - Vice President for Academic Affairs, 'Thomas J. D'Andrea, asked the Student Forum at its Monday meeting to investigate allowing students to schedule their own final exams. They Play It Safe VI ·;: ro .r: u >. .a 0 15 .r: Q, Union Security Sgt. Chris Chadwick discusses his job. By JIM DAVIS Cliff Wood is the director of campus security here. He says he and his officers have a one- in-100 job. \We can do 100 good things for a student, but if we do one thing they don't like-say, we give him a parking ticket- he '11 probably think of us un- favorably.\ Chris Chadwick is one of three sergeants on the security staff. He thinks his job has positive and negative aspects. \Positively he said, \we help students, by unlocking room doors they don't have keys for, helping them start their cars on cold days, and directing traffic at sports events. But we get into trouble when we have to start enforcing safety rules, because that's when we have to give out fines.\ Chadwick, who has worked security here for seven years, says the busiest time for the force, which includes two other sergeants and 14 officers, is on the 4 p.m. to midnight shift. Tuesdays, Fridays and Saturdays are the busiest nights. During the time he has worked -at Union, Chadwick says the security staff has become far more professional. Many of its present members, he noted, have prior experience on municipal police forces. \But being a campus security officer is completely different from being a police officer,\ said Wood, who was a member of th'e Schenectady police for 30 years before coming to Union some six years ago. \We try to maintain conditions here that will protect students' safety-at this time of year, for instance, by keeping the walkways free of ice. We also patrol the campus to make sure the dorms and classrooms are secure.\ These duties, Wood says, continue all year, even during vacations, when most other campus residents aren't here. In addition, security officers don't carry weapons and don't have arrest power. To do that, they must call the Schenectady Police Department. As a result of their role, both Wood and Chadwick believe that most security personnel quickly develop an affinity for the campus. \I don't think there's a man on the staff (which also includes two female officers) who wouldn't help a student more quickly now than when he came here,\ Wood said. In the instances where of- ficers \get a little short\ with students or otherwise violate this relationship, they're likely to be reprimanded. If they continue to act in such a fashion, they could be dismissed, although Wood did not recall this happening under his regime. To a large extent, Sgt. Chadwick said, a specific student's dealings with the security staff is determined by the experience he has had with them in the past, as well as what he has heard about security officers. \It's the same way with of- ficers,\ he noted. \They have set ideas about students. And these preconceptions, positive and negative, are difficult to break.\ Similarly, Wood observed that it takes time for new security rules and safety features to be appreciated. As Continued on page 5

Page 2 Editorials: Some Winter Excitement By themselves, a Schenectady winter's cold weather, often-cloudy skies and omnipresent snow cover are enough to send anyone into the doldrums. Possibly on account of the chilly temperatures, it seems that fewer of those spur-of-the- moment escapades college students are reknowned for occur during this season, at least on this campus. As this is the case, we're glad to see that the reduced spontaneity is being replaced by planned campus-wide social events. This past weekend's Blotto concert at Alumni Gym was a lot of fun, and WRUC and the Social Committee both deserve a pat on the back for arranging andstaging the event. It's really too early to congratulate the Concert Committee for arranging to have James Taylor perform at Proctor's Theatre, Feb. 28 (see sto:ry, page 1). But it isn't too soon to admire their willingness to provide the College w·rth something to get excited about. Simply stated, James Taylor is the highest-paid performer to visit Union in recent memory. And we owe it to ourselves to get our money's worth. · Aesthetic questions aside, we hope that lots of people in the campus com- munity purchase concert tickets when they go onsa1e. Of course, we don't expect and wouldn't want those who don't like Taylor's style to lead the rush, but by the same token we hope that students won't be scared away by the tickets' price. 'Granted, you can see equally well-known or bigger-named acts in large cities like New York or Boston for about as much as the $10 Taylor tickets will cost College students. But that really shouldn't matter. Such comparisons are meaningless because being a Union student offers a unique set of opportunities. One of the:m is the James Taylor concert. Responding to student opinion, the Concert Committee has enlisted the ser- vices of a class act. Now it's up to us to justify this action by spending the money we knew we would have to for such an undertaking to be a success. While the 2,600-seat theater won't 1:re sold out even if every one of Union's students buys a ticket, we remain the ones who should and will have to make up most of the crowd. If we don't show this kind of support, then the chances are events of this nature won't be attempted again in the near future. And that would be unfortunate. Tepid student interest caused the sharp curtailment of this year's Winter Carnival activities (see story, page 9). Let's make sure the future campus-wide social calendar doesn't under go a similar curtailment by giving the James Taylor concert the kind of enthusiasm and backing it deserves. We'd Like to Know More Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas J. D'Andrea has suggested that the appropriate campus governance bodies look into the possibility of restruc- turing the final exam schedule so that students can decide when they want to take their tests. (See story, page 1.) He's soliciting student opinions on the matter. Here's ours. While allowing students to take exams on their own, when they want to, would represent a sharp change from the way things are now,done here, the idea of \self-scheduling\ really isn't that new or revolutionary. It's done at a number of other colleges; Vice President D'Andrea cited Haverford College, where he worked previously, as an example. So while a change might, for a time, be somewhat unsettling, that, in itself, doesn't seem to be justification for disliking or opposing the idea. But the record shows that the present system works pretty well. Conflicts sometimes arise, but they are relatively few and usually easily resolved. If there are compelling reasons for this kind of transition, we would like to hear them. This isn't a flat-out indictment of Dr. D'Andrea's suggestion; before such a strong stand can be taken, either pro or con, much more discussion will be needed. At this point, though, as Junior Representative Weldon Turner noted, the cons seem to outweigh the pros. With students taking the same final at different times, the temptation to cheat, either knowingly or unknowingly, would appear irresistible. Unless there are overwhelming objections to the present finals arrangement why tamper with a successful format? Editors-in-~ief Associate Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editors Arts Editors Photo Editor Sports Editors Sports Photo Editor Layout Editor Business Manager Subscriptions Editor Calendar Editor Staff Photo Staff Calligraphy concoroien5itJ Jim Davis, Julie Isgro Paul Grossman Joe Maguire Naomi Blank Judi Chervenak, D. Booth Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Richard A. Sher Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Steve Lerner Rachel I. Mandel Jeff Scardino Ellen Berger 1\Caria Manfredonia Mindy Roser, Claire Burchill, Charis Richards Kent Avecy, MindyBroser, Charis Richards, Michael J. Elkins Claire Burchill CONCORDIENSIS is publishea every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Pu.blicati.ons Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13638 (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Sewice (CPS). prpg_r~m~,, stqd,ent:& to. . . . . . . · • . . · · · · · ·. · · · · · over the . .. . are not our .campus who· feel that it is mAAY. bEJtter W:aY,S to.J~ill· a \'their job··.···•t<JP'fl)l'ffi1l.'late···· 1 fall'. l:>~tter !Ul4er$~@lg, .... · ... ··· · -JMl.tm #migh~y <>pinions,~} instead' of ?WDJ.q§:d'?~U ~.§.f.pfiiign.d•:.ultur~s. --,transmit·tln;g-•actual· · · · · ·. · · tb~nt~> ~~rlenc,e and/oompUre sentiment;· · · them... . . .. . . .. . .. . . . .. .. .. Sineenely, . Last. 'Winter flt this time 1 was Nell Ros~nbaum,'tll . ~:~~a .. of~~~tt 10 w~:~! .Speakers Forum .t}l~is in . . . . . ... Yet, . I , . · · ~;: .. · Po~J'1cy E:x.pl·a:in:ed llav~ , .,, ., . ·To the s~;ud~~t eoflllriunlty: i)avidM.H:~~fKi ~~t~t~'r•' 1~.,~- t -~·jt.-·*a\' ... : · \~· .····p·~-1. ···c--·y··.· ·.·· · ·· 'Vi ,1;--.-.1.;-- \~\ln>G···: ···. · \J · · - . . -~-- .... ~- . ' .... wl pc: PI Ai se PI J( wl m cl 1M in cl ·fO w te a1 lo tl el tl PI tl fi 0' Cl lV j( c d fl VI p F d F q e tl e 0 Il c I ~ 11 11 I I -~ B - •

Page 2 OONCORDIENSIS, February 5, 1981 Editorials: Some Winter Excitement By themselves, a Schenectady winter's cold weather, often-cloudy skies and omnipresent snow cover are enough to send anyone into the doldrums. Possibly on account of the chilly temperatures, it seems that fewer of those spur-of-the- moment escapades college students are reknowned for occur during this season, at least on this campus. As this is the case, we're glad to see that the reduced spontaneity is being replaced by planned campus-wide social events. This past weekend's Blotto concert at Alumni Gym was a lot of fun, and WRUC and the Social Committee both deserve a pat on the back for arranging and staging the event. It's really too early to congratulate the Concert Committee for arranging to have James Taylor perform at Proctor's Theatre, Feb. 28 (see story, page 1). But it isn't too soon to admire their willingness to provide the College with something to get excited about. Simp,Jy stated, James Taylor is the highest-paid performer to visit Union in recent memory. And we owe it to ourselves to get our money's wo-rth. Aesthetic questions aside, we hope that lots of people in the campus com- munity purchase concert tickets when they go on sale. Of course, we don't expect and wouldn't want those who don't like Taylor's style to lead the rush, but by the same token we hope that students won't be scared away by the tiC'kets' price. 'Granted, you can see equally well-known or bigger-named acts in large cities like New York or Boston for about as much as the $10 Taylor tickets will cost College students. But that really shouldn't matter. Such comparisons are meaningless because being a Union student offers a unique set of opportunities. One of them is the James Taylor concert. Responding to student opinion, the Concert Committee has enlisted the ser- vices of a class act. Now it's up to us to justify this action by spending the money we knew we would have to for such an undertaking to be a success. While the 2,600-seat theater won't be sold out even if every one of Union's students buys a ticket, we remain the ones who should and will have to make up most of the crowd. If we don't show this kind of support, then the chances are events of this nature won't be attempted again in the near future. And that would be unfortunate. Tepid student interest caused the sharp curtailment of this year's Winter Carnival activities (see story, page 9). Let's make sure the future campus-wide social calendar doesn't under go a similar curtailment by giving the James Taylor concert the kind of enthusiasm and backing it deserves. We'd Like to Know More Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas J. D'Andrea has suggested that the appropriate campus governance bodies look into the possibility of restruc- turing the final exam schedule so that students can decide when they want to take their tests. (See story, page 1.) He's soliciting student opinions on the matter. Here's ours. While allowing students to take exams on their own, when they want to, would represent a sharp change from the way things are now. done here, the idea of \self-scheduling\ really isn't that new or revolutionary. It's done at a number of other colleges; Vice President D'Andrea cited Haverford College, where he worked previously, as an example. So while a change might, for a time, be somewhat unsettling, that, in itself, doesn't seem to be justification for disliking or opposing the idea. But the record shows that the present system works pretty well. Conflicts sometimes arise, but they are relatively few and usually easily resolved. If there are compelling reasons for this kind of transition, we would like to hear them. This isn't a flat-out indictment of Dr. D'Andrea's suggestion; before such a strong stand can be taken, either pro or con, much more discussion will be needed. At this point, though, as Junior Representative Weldon Turner noted, the cons seem to outweigh the pros. With students taking the same final at different times, the temptation to cheat, either knowingly or unknowingly, would appear irresistible. Unless there are overwhelming objections to the present finals arrangement why tamper with a successful format? Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editors Arts Editors Photo Editor Sports Editors Sports Photo Editor Layout Editor Business Manager Subscriptions Editor Calendar Editor Staff Photo Staff Calligraphy concoroienuia· Jim Davis, Julie Isgro Paul Grossman Joe Maguire Naomi Blank Judi Chervenak, D. Booth Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Richard A. Sher Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Steve Lerner Rachel I. Mandel Jeff Scardino Ellen Berger 1\Caria Manfredonia Mindy B~oser, Claire Burchill, Charis Richards Kent Avery, MindvBroser, Charis Richards, Michael J. Elkins Claire Burchill CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS). -~ . L .--~··tt . . ;a· ::~'-, : ··· <e::'·._ ..... ·-r.· s ... ··- ·~r· .. ,_ ... -. __ .. _.. -·-·· _, . - :. . . .. - -·. .. --. - ---- .. 1 Term Abroad Fees Questio-ned To Union College stud~nts, It is that time ot year again, when everyone starts to think about next year and the possibility of going on a term abroad. I feel that the term abroad program is one of Union's strongest attributes. We have a wide variety of good programs, which enable students to study in locations all over the world. There are not many better ways to gain a better understanding of your own, as well as foreign, cultures than to experience and compare them. Last winter at this time I was picking grapefruit in Israel instead of trying to write a thesis in Schenectady. Yet, I may have learned more in those ten weeks of picking fruit than I have in any single trimester here on campus. However, there is one thing that 1 would like to point out. I wonder about the cost of the Israel program. On other terms abroad, a professor ac- companies the group, and students take courses at a university of some sort. This is pot the . case with the Israel program. There is no ac· companying professor, and students take courses from a kibbutz-sponsored school. Basically the student is required to work about four hour~ a day in order to com .. pensate the _kibbutz for room. board, and classes in Hebrew. I have no reservations with • this system. Yet,. I see no reason why, in this case, a student should have to pay about $1,700 in tuition to Union. I am quite sure that I could have enjoyecf the same experience on a program planned myself, and at a savings of close to -$2,000. I bring this out. in an attempt to enlighten others who may wish to take advantage of my ex- perience. I also brought this problem to the attention of various \ad~ ministrators,., but it seems that the tangles of red tape are too much ft>r even them to handle. Sincerely, David M. Handler '81 Letters' Tone Condemned To the Editors~ My initial reaction to the two letters in last week's Con- cordiensis dealing with student tax was to bc~nne sarcastic and obnoxious to the manner which this question was answered by two members of our Student Forum. I then realized that this response would make it unfair for me to criticize their actions. The point is; that as members of our Student Governmentt these representatives have a responsibility to transmit .opinions and actions frt>m the students to the administration· Trustees and visa versa. · . Although the opinions ex· pressed in the two letters may be based on good paints, the manner in which this message was transmitted to the students was nothing short of irresponsible. If the writers feel that Con- cordiensis is able to stir student sentiment, then they should merely explain to the students ~eir position. The second letter talks about wasted space in the paper J when the author is ftom a residence hall which has a weekly article based on private jokes among the 18 people who live there. These two letters ·serve no purpose but to reinforce my belief that some members of our Student Government look at themselves as elite members of our campus who feel that it is their job to formulate \all mighty opinions,\ instead of transmitting actual student sentiment.· Sin 1 cere y, Neil Rosenbaurot '81 Speakers Forum Policy Explained To the student community: In response to a growing number . of people having questioned the procedure that Speakers Forum uses in in- viting guests to attend receP.:' tlons following lectures, we Will attempt to explain our former system} as well as. our new system, effective Jan. 1. In the past: The 14 members of the Speakers Forum com- mittee were each allowed to invite two people of their choice _to a receptiun. Due to an increasing number of students wishing to attend receptions, the. balance of the · invitations, 32) were sent to . sttldents at randomJ selected . from the College campus directory. In an attempt to allow ;Students to attend receptions that they have an interest in going to, our new policy is the follow'Wg: . Members of the Speakers . F()rum committee will now only invite one guest to a reception. For those students who ex- press an interest in attending a particular reception, there will be a sign .. ·up li$ ( &Jlllounced in Concordiensis) in the Student Activities office. The first 25 names on the list will receive invitations to that particular reception. The balance of tne invitations 21, will be sent to thQse selected at random fr001 the College campus directory. We hope that this new policy will be acceptable to the· :majority of the UniQn College community. If you do receive an invitation to attend a reception, please remember that dress is sem.i·iorroal. Our first speaker for thiS term will be Jim Bouton, former New . York Yankees pitcher and t-elevision sportscaster, ap~ pea:ring Monday, Feb. 16 at a· p.m.. in Memorial Chapel. Those wishing to attend the reception f()r Mr. Bouto-n should sign up inunediately in the Student Activities office. As stated · above, the first 25 names on the list will receive invitations to the reception. Cordially, Robin Cornich and Liz Weisser CoooChairpersons, Speakers Forum Letters Policy Cone()rdiensis welcQmes under the door and will be letters from all members of the directed. to the editors. All . campus community. They can lette-rs must he signed, typed be delivered to the newspaper and include the senderts office, on the fourth floor of telephone number, so that their Carnegie Ball. If no one .is in the validity can he V'&l'ified • . office, the letter can be slipped ..:- ..... v p I ) E t I 1 I

OONOO~DIENSIS, Febru,ary ~~ 1981 Page 3 Special Concordiensis Interview: ,, Office of the President By PAUL GRDSSMAN - A new man has just assumed what is considered the most powerful job in tlie world, President of the United States of America.· Last year, Union College searched for and found a new president. He is, as we all know, John Selwyn Morris. Anyone who has had the pleasure ·of · meeting him can attest to his charming and fascinating personality. I knew that the interview would be an enjoyable chat, but I was .hoping for more, .for an approach to the man that would uncover .genuinely in- teresting aspects of the man and his job. President Morris genuinely loves his job and every aspect of the Union community. The extent of this love is exuded by the President almost to the point of corniness. The only thing that keeps this impression from getting to that point is the overwhelming feeling of sin- cerity on the part of President Morris. what your job as President of Union College entails? President Morris: Well, of course, the basic responsibility that I have is to the Board of Trustees for the proper operation of the College, the - College in all .of its pspects: academic, physical and financial. That really is the basic obligation that I have as President. Arising out of that C: About how, much time do you devote to the office? PM .Thi . b? . : S JO • C: Yes. Is It a 24 hour-a-day job?· Seven days per week? PM: If you·- consider sleep? Yes, it is an aU-day and all- weekend job. Many social ac- tivltiesare also part of the job~ I represent Union College, at a variety of functions and a good deal of what I do is not private, York with the committee that I .serve on, the Commission of ·Independent Colleges and Universities (CICU). While a good deal of last week was spent in preparation for a trustees meeting, then the trustees meeting itself, there was also part of the week spent on preparing .for and attending a meeting of the Research, Policy and Planning Committee of CICU. C: Do you think that this is a healthy scirt .of oreakdown? Is there some aspect of your schedule that you wish could be different? that the best contact that we can have with students is the kind of informal meetings like when we have the more official student groups over to the house. That kin~pf informal setting is much better, and an occasional dropping in at a meal time where what we're doing is simply going through a line and sitting down with maybe only two ar three students. But we think that that is good, because it is unexpected. We also try to attend a smorgasboard of sporting events. We can't attend all, hut we do try to attend some. It is interesting to us and we also want to show our in- terest in sports. We intend to keep that up. C: Typically the biggest headache for a school principal is the ·P.T.A. What faction ofthe Union College community is your biggest headache? The interview focused on the job·of being President of Union College. The quesUons were designed to uncover the responsibilities of the office; what exactly it is that a college president does, and how President Morris feels about doing it. President Morris: The pomp ... PM: No, I think that they're all intertwined. If you look at what arises out of being tile bead of the executive branch of this institution then you have to see the other things as following from it. Look at today. This morning I was reviewing some of the issues that were brought up at the board meeting. At lunch I was acting as a member of the--board of the Schenectady Chamber of Commerce. I'm back here now doing an in- terview with you. Then, when you leave, I'll get the weekend's mail and wade through that a while. Tonight is rare, I think that it's a free night. All of this is not an unusual pattern, being involved with the board, with the· community, with the students in some way or another. Usually there would be some sort of event going on, a sporting event or something. Enid and I occasionally will turn up at Hale House or West for a meal. - PM: (Long pause.) Let me answer that by saying that there isn't a faction that is a big headache. Now that might seem smart, but what interests me so much is that the - various elements that come together to form Union College are deeply concerned about the same thing: that we try to maintain a high quality education. Each area of the college is profoundly proud of the college, and what I have found is that while there are headaches in the ad- ministration of the school, there are no headaches from any one group. I think that everybody is committed to the same kind of thing. I can't really say that anyone has thus far given me a headache. The kinds of problems that . a college president has these days is I arrived early at the President's office to review my questions. President Morris emerged arui offered to begin the interview early. I was then escorted into the office, turned on the tape r.ecorder, . and proceeded to have an hour-long conversation with the President. I left President Morris with what I felt were honest, sincere answers to all of my questions, but I left with more than a good tape; I left President Morris' office with a .good feeling. That feeling I attribute to having experienced set of responsfbilities are several others which folloW: First of all, of course, as President of Union· College, I am the Chancellor of Union University, which leads to one other group of responsibilities since Union College is in the city .of Schenectady and in the Capital District; and as the oldest chartered college in New York State, it is sacred within the context of ''private education\ in the state. This sets up another set of respon- sibilities. That, I think, would encompass the responsibilities \I can't reall)· say that anJ·one has thus far given me a headache.\ the energy, siiicerity, and genuine love for the school that President Morris exudes. Those are important qualities to possess when your name is on the door that says UNION COLLEGE: OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT. (Editor's note: an interview of this length represents a large amount of text. We feel that all of the interview is interesting and have therefore decided not ·to edit it. The interview will therefore be presented in its entirety In three consecutive installments.) Concordiensis: President Morris, could you please provide a' brief description of <I) 'i: ro 6 >- .0 6 0 -a that I have. C: When did your career as a college administrator begin? One doesn't simply say, \I want to be a college president when I grow up.\ PM: No, in fact, I've had sort of a creeping sack of respon- . sibilities. I was an Assistant Dean of the Faculty at Colgate. Then there was a hiatus and I became a director of the Division of Humanities, which was only a part-time ad- ministrative responsibility, and then as Director of the Division of University Studies, that was a little bit more administrative responsibility, then I ·was ap- pointed to the full-time position of Provost and Dean of Faculty. The President and the first. LadY consequently almost anything I go to I am seen as the President of Union College. C: I have no concept, and neither does anybody that I've asked. How much do you get paid for doing what you do? PM: Well, it is more than any other administrator in the College, naturally. It is a reasonable amount. C: What about any of the fraternities or sororities? C: Getting back to the time that you put in. What effect does the job have on your personal life? Are the two totally in- tertwined? PM: Because our son is in college, both Enid (his wife) and I are deeply involved in the College. We stand rather well together, while working for the College. We are able to make the separation, but always a: within the context of the College S5 community. 1:: C.: President Morris, could ro .c you try to assign percentages of .!::! your time that you find yourself ll:: devoting to · things like ~ academics, fund raising, ad- o ministration. . . :g PM: Well now, that's a hard o. one because it varies so much. There are weeks when it seems like all that I'm involved in is students, and then there are weeks when I'm only involved in budget, and still other weeks when all of my problems are academic. It is hard to pin down. If you look at my daily schedule, it could vary enor- mously. You see, I spend a lot of time away, doing things that are tangential and yet are deeply involved sorts of things. Only last week I was in New PM: Well, those we would ~~-,.--~ . .. and the circumsta·nce. only turn up to by invitation. Of course sometimes we're not able to come because the~ usually turn up at the last minute. But we welcome any means of talking with the students. making sure that the quality of this institution is maintained or increased. That's the headache. I think that everypody is now much more aware of our movement into a period of uncertainty in terms of the \It would be ve1y difficult for me to under. estimate her (Mrs. Morris) contribution.~~ C: Along those same lines, what do you do to really see what it is like to be a student at Union College? Things like visiting a science lab, that sort of thing. Something to bring your office a little closer to the student's level? PM: Well, I do teach a course. C: That is significant. PM: I teach a course and intend to keep on teaching that course. It's a little more dif· ficult for me to just appear in labs. Last year I did in fact meet with every department. A part of those meetings was a tour around their facilities. On occasion I did get a chance to peer into labs. So 1 felt last year · to be very important to me to talk with all of the departments to get a sense of things. I think economics of the country, the economics of higher education, and the headache becomes the administrative one of making sure that the College is ad- ministered well, is given a secure financial foundation, and that we are able to plan for the maintenance of our quality if not the increase of our quality . as we battle these uncertainties. C: There must be many people who would serve as a sort of buffer for you should you encounter \headaches.\ Could you provide a brief background on your closest advisers? PM: There are several groups of advisers, of course. First of all, the Board of Trustees is an important group, as you can imagine. My top Continued on page ,g

OONOORDIENSIS, February 5, 1981 Page 3 Special Concordiensis Interview: Office of the President By PAUL GROSSMAN A new man has just assumed what is considered the most powerful job in tlie world, President of the United States of America. Last year, Union College searched for and found a new president. He is, as we all know, John Selwyn Morris. Anyone who has had the pleasure ·of meeting him can attest to his charming and fascinating personality. I knew that the interview would be an enjoyable chat, but I was hoping for more, for an approach to the man that would uncover genuinely in- teresting aspects of the man and his job. President Morris genuinely loves his job and every aspect of the Union community. The extent of this love is exuded by the President almost to the point of corniness. The only thing that keeps this impression from getting to that point is the overwhelming feeling of sin- cerity on the part of President Morris. what your job as President of Union College entails? President Morris: Well, of course, the basic responsibility that I have is to the Board. of Trustees for the proper operation of the College, the · College in all of its .fiSpects: academic, physical and financial. That really is the basic obligation that I have as President. Arising out of that C: About ho~, much time do you devote to the office? PM: This job? C: Yes. Is it a 24 hour-a-day job? Seven days per week? PM: If you consider sleep? Yes, it is an all-day and all- weekend job. Many social ac- tivities are also part of the job. I represent Union College, at a variety of ~unctions and a good deal of what I do is not private, York with the coiiltnittee that I serve on, tbe Commission of Independent Colleges and Universities (CICU). While a good deal of last week was spent in preparation for a trustees meeting, then the trustees meeting itself, there was also part of the week spent on preparing for and attending a meeting oftbe Research, Policy and Planning Committee of CICU. C: Do yoll think that this is a healthy sort of breakdown? Is there some aspect of your schedule that you wish could be different'? that the best contact that we can have with students is the kind of informal meetings like when we have the more official student groups over to the house. That kind .of informal setting is much better, and an occasional dropping in at a meal time where what we're d(ling is simply going through a line and sitting down with maybe only two or three students. But we think that that is good, becawe it is unexpected. We also try to attend a smorgasboard of sporting events. We can't attend all, but we do try to attend some. It is interesting to us and we also want to show our in- terest in sports. We intend to keep that up. C: TypicaUy the biggest headache for a school principal is the P. T .A. What faction of the Union College community is your biggest headache? The interview focused on the job of being President of Union College. The questions were designed to uncover the responsibilities of the office ; what exactly it is that a college president does, and how President Morris feels about doing it. President Morris: The pomp ... PM: No, I think that they're aU intertwined. If you look at what arises out of being the head of t'he executive branch of this institution then you have to see the other things as following from it. Look at today. This morning I was reviewing some of the issues that were brought up at the board meeting. At lunch I was acting as a member of the board of the Schenectady Chamber of Commerce. I'm back here now doing an in- terview with you. Then, when you leave, I'll get the weekend's mail and wade through that a while. T<>night is rare, I think that it's a free night. All of this is not an unusual pattern, being involved with the board, with the co:mmunity, with the students in some way or another. Usually there would be some sort of event going on, a sporting event or something. Enid and I occasionally will turn up at Hale House or West for a meaL · PM: (Long pause.) Let me answer that by saying that there isn't a faction that is a big headache. Now that might seem smart, but what interests me so much is that the various elements that come together to form Union College are deeply concerned about the same thing: that we try to maintain a high quality education. Each area of the college is profoundly proud of the college, and what I have found is that while there are headaches in the ad- ministration of the school, there are no headaches from any one group. I think that everybody is committed to the same kind of thing. I can't really say that anyone has thus far given me a headache. The kinds of problems that a college president has these days is I arrived early at the President's office to review my questions. President Morris emerged and offered to begin the interview early. I was then escorted into the office, turned on the tape recorder, and proceeded to have an hour-long conversation with the President. I left President Morris with what I felt were honest, sincere answers to all of my questions, but I left with more than a good tape; I left President Morris' office with a . good feeling. That feeling I attribute to having experienced set of responsibilities are several others which follow: First of all, of course, as President of Union College, I am the Chancellor of Union University, which leads to one other group of responsibilities since Union College is in the city of Schenectady and in the Capital District; and as the oldest chartered college in New York State, it is sacred within the context of \private education\ in the state. This sets up another set of respon- sibilities. That, I think, would encompass the responsibilities \I t•au \t really say tlu:t anyone ha:-; thus far git·en me a headache.\ the energy, sincerity, and genuine love for the school that President Morris exudes. Those are important qualities to possess when your name is on the door that says UNION COLLEGE: OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT. (Editor's note: an interview of this length represents a large amount of text. We feel that all of the Jnterview is interesting and have therefore decided not to edit it. The interview will therefore be presented in Its entirety in three consecutive installments.) Concordiensis: President Morris, could you please provide a brief description of ~11 :0 ·~- ..c: u a:: U) 'i: ' 11), ..c: ' u >-·-- ~ ft4~ ..._ - . _g ll't\\ 0..~ that I have. C: When did your career as a college administrator begin? One doesn't simply say, \I want to be a college president when I grow up.\ PM: No, in fact, I've had sort of a creeping sack of respon- sibilities. I was an Assistant Dean of the Faculty at Colgate. Then there was a hiatus and I became a director of the Division of Humanities, which was only a part-time ad- ministrative responsibility, and then as Director of the Division of University Studies, that was a little bit more administrative responsibility, then I was ap- pointed to the full-time position of Provost and Dean of Faculty. The President and the 'First Lady consequently almost anything I go to I am seen as the President of Union College. C: I have no concept, and neither does anybody that I've asked. How much do you get paid for doing what you do? PM: Well, it is more than any other administrator in the College, naturally. It is a reasonable amount. C: Wllat about any of the fraternities or sororities? C: Getting back to the time that you put in. What effect does the job have on your personal life? Are the two totally in- tertwined? PM: Because our son is in college, both Enid (his wife) and I are deeply involved in the College. We stand rather well together, while working for the College. We are able to make the separation, but always within the context of the College community. 1: C: President Morris, could m ..t: you try to assign percentages of .~ your time that you find yourself a:: devoting to ~ things like E academics, fund raising, ad- o ministration. , . 0 ..t: PM: Well now, that's a hard a. one because it varies so much. There are weeks when it seems like all that I'm involved in is students, and then there are weeks when I'm only involved in budget, and still other weeks when all of my problems are academic. It is hard to pin down. If you look at my daily schedule, it could vary enor- mously. You see, I spend a lot of time away, doing things that are tangential and yet are deeply involved sorts of things. Only last week I was in New PM: 'Well, those we would . and the circumstance. only turn up to by invitation. Of course somethnes we're not able to come because theY. usually turn up at the last minute. But we welcome any means of talking with the students. making sure that the quality of this institution is maintained or increased. That's the headache. I think that everybody is now much more aware of our movement into a period of uncertainty in terms of the \It u~o11ld be t'er.Y difficult for me to unfipr. estim ole her (Mr.li. 1H ort·is) cou tribution . .,. C: Along those same lines, what do you do to really see what it is like to be a student at Union College? Things like visiting a science lab, that sort of thing. Something to bring your office a little closer to the student's level'? PM: Vf.ell, I do teach a course. C: That is significant. PM: I teach a course and intend to keep on teaching that course. It's a little more dif- ficult for me to just appear in labs. Last year I did in fact meet with every department. A part of those meetings was a tour around their facilities. On occasion I did get a chance to peer into labs. So I felt last year to be very important to me to talk with all of the departments to get a sense of things. I think economics of the country, tile economics of higher education, and the headache becomes the administrative one of making sure that the College is ad- ministered well, is given a secure financial foundation, and that we are able to plan for the maintenance of our quality if not the increase of our quality . as we battle these uncertainties. C: There must be many people who would serve as a sort of buffer for you should you encounter \headaches.\ C<>uld you provide a brief background on your closest advisers7 PM: There are several groups of advisers, of course. First of all, the Board of Trustees is an important group, as you can imagine. My top Continued on page .s

Page 4 OONdORDIENSIS, February 5, 1981 Ul \0 ... Ill .c: .~ 0:: t \ ! Forum Meeting • Continued from page 1. to formulate a system of self- scheduled examinations. Alternatively, a hybrid system, with some scheduled, along with some unscheduled examinations, has been proposed. Another alternative would be for an instructor to give an examination on the last day of olass, in lieu of an examination during finals week. These ideas need to be discussed internally before any experimentation could take place, D'Andrea said. If the student body decides to push for a self-scheduled examination system, much time would be needed before a trial run could be· considered. Experimen- tation could last anywhere from one to three or more terms, in order to test the effectiveness of the proposal. In another agenda item, the Foriun discussed its funding of \Union Views,\ the twice-a- term newsmagazme begun last year, with the publication's editors, Dave Wollin and Mark Valentine. The editors reported that editorial staffs of both \Union Views\ and Concordiensis met and had discussed the possibility of a merger, as well as the two publications remaining separate. Both editorial staffs agree that the format of \Union Views,\ without advertisements, should not be changed, whether or not a merger is put into effect. As it is presently funded, \Union Views\ will not have e~ough money to print two issues spring term, although it plans to print two this term. In requesiing addiWmal funding, Wollin said the Forum should consider \the merits of 'Union Views' alone and its benefits to the campus, and not whether we are combining with Con- cordiensis or not,'' explained Wollin. Rachel Mandel, current layout editor of Concordiensis, stated that \the current editors of both Concordiensis and 'Union Views;' through cooperation and com- munication are looking to provide the campus conununity with the best newspaper coverage.'' \Union Views,\ its editors said, acts as a .complement, not a competitor to Concordiensis. The.differences between the two publications were noted at the meeting as well. ''Union Views\ is able to provide more in depth and. in- vestigative articles because it does not have the limits of a weekly publication. ConD cordiensis, in contrast, is able to provide up-to-date weekly news and sports information. Should a merger take place, \Union Views\ would act as a supplement and news magazine with Concordiensis. The decision has not yet been resolved. Prior to making a firm fun- ding decision, Forum Vice President for Administration Cathy Johnson requested that the editors of the two publications m:eet with her to revise their constitutions at the earliest mutually agreeable date. In other business, the Forum unanimously approved allocating $150 for printing and promotional expenses related to the annual Senior Class Gift to the College. Gary S. Lehr, Caryn Opengart and Vivian Stern were announced to be the three top vote getters in Monday's election for the two Freshman Representative positions on the Forum. A run-off is taking place today in the lobby of Carnegie Hall. Once again, all freshmen are eligible to vote. Academic Affairs Council (AAC) member Steve Auerbach reported that the Council is reviewing the Freshman Preceptorial program and will begin reviewing the entire Liberal Learning program by the end of this term or the Lyle invites all you hungry Union students to LYLE'S ---- HOAGIES We're open to the wee hours. Let us make you oneofourfine Submarines. 460 State St. 370-2566 Women & Men It's Bee~n 10 Years Let's Get Together There's a Party focusing on a communtiy of Women. Tuesday,· February 1Oth, 4:00 Banquet Room Refreshments Provided · Sponsored by the Women's Network Associate Dean of Faculty: Kaplan Assumes Post 0 By.nLL BRYCE and JOE MAGUffiE nene Kaplan, in her third year at Union, has been named to one of three newly created administrative positions: Associate Dean of Faculty. Willard Roth and Alan Nelson are filling the other positions as Associate Deans · ·Of Undergraduate Studies. All three appointments were made • • beginning of the spring term. He also said that the AAC had voted to freeze faculty hiring and distributions ·at their present level for the duration of its campus-wide academic review. However, allowances will be made to replace tenured professors who retire. Interfraternity CouncU (IFC) President Tony Klockenbrink announced that prices for tickets to the annual IFC Ball, Feb. 21, at the Americana Inn in Albany, have been set at $6 a couple for fraternity members and $10 a couple for nom- members. Jack Maranville: by Vice President of Academic Affairs Thomas J. D'Andrea. Kaplan will be ov~rseeing faculty development, research, and teaching programs, and she will be working closely with Roth, Nelson, and D'Andrea. She admits that her ''ad- ministrative duties will be primarily concerned with faculty affairs, but this will not in any way lessen my interest in student life on campus.\ The new campus official is looking forward to the duties of her position. \There have been interesting. administrative changes at Union recently'', she said. ''The College is going through an exciting ·period of development and I would like to be involved with that development.\ And she has experience ~hlch makes her a qualified par- ticipant in that development. She was asked by Union President John S. Morris to serve on last year's vice- presidential search committee and was also ·elected a tnem.ber of the faculty review board. As dean, she still sits on the board, which is .responsible for faculty evaluation and salary promotion, but a re-election has taken place ~ the junior facu1ty, to eliminate any con- flict of interest. For three years Kaplan has been a .professor of sociology here, and she will still teach on a half-time basis. \l'm going to have to balance teaching in- terests and research ·interests with added administrative duties. I do not intend to lose the teaching and research part of my life.\ Her most recent ·research deals with family and community life. ''My work has examined the responsiveness of community planners to meet the needs of family members. My focus has been primarily on ar- chitecturally planned com- munities in the United States.\ She participated in a World Congress this summer on housing of families,. and has also coordinated a lecture series this term, which will feature a family court judge and a lawyer for the N.Y.S. Governor's Task Force on Family Violence as guest speakers. The lectures are sponsored . by the Sociology Department. The new associate dean of faculty remains an assistant professor of sociology, and sees her role in her new position as that of a \faculty advocate. I hope to help improve the quality of life of faculty at Union.\ Morris Names Assistant By JOE BECKERMAN President Morris has a new assistant, Dr. Jack L. Maranville, who was formerly the director of public relations at Union. Dr. Maranville's function is to assist President Morris in administration and help him to coordinate specific projects. Maranville's official title is \executive associate to the president.\ Maranville, in an interview, explained precisely what his job entails. Since all schools in the New York State Higher Education System must act within guidelines laid down by the Board of Regents, Jack is responsible for advancing the position of Union College to the board. If, for example, the Board of Regents wishes to enforce rules about the type of professors Union must hire, then Maranville would speak out as to how the college felt. One might think that a pt·ivate college like Union would not be concerned with the dictates of the state government. However, this is not true for two reasons. In addition to having received its charter from the Board of Regents, Union, like all colleges in New York State, competes for government aid. The money the college receives goes toward tuition assistance. Considering this, it is vital that Union's position be advanced among a select public, that is, the Board of Regents. Maranville pointed out that, \Since Union is a very prestigious college, we are responsible for establishing a 'posture ambng colleges'\ Maranville went on to say that he \communicates. Union's values on education. Being at Union gives me the opportunity to do this because Union has (GIVE OR TAKE AN INCH) ' ~:-. tl 1 ( ~ \ 1¥ THE INCREDIBLE . SHRINKING··:······· \ · \WOMAN .· .. credibility among colleges.\ Maranville's other role is that of an administrative aid to the president. This aspect of his job involves a wide scope, from representing President Morris at a meeting to ~answering a Jack Maranvi lie letter from someone inquiring about a specific aspect of the college. With the many Continued on page 11 Lll Y TOMLir>J • CHf\~LES GRODIN · NED BEATTY • A LlJA ProHu>tiQrJ ... THE INCREDIBlE SH~NKING WOt\'AN.. . · . Wri~ten by jANE WAGN~R • t\'1J~4 by Sl!iANNE c:JA,NI • .'Pr9~!1!\ld>~y HANK MO()NjEAN . Executove Producer JANE WAGNER · Dii'ecte<J by 'JOEL SCHIJMAC!iE\R · A .t:J ~RS URt Read the JOVE Boo!< · Cownght ® 19SO l>y Univoi>ill Oty Studio!, Inc. NOW PLAYING AT A THEATRE NEAR YOU _

y • OONOORDllJJNSIS~ February 5~ 1981 Page 5 Women's Network Explained around campus The Women's Network of Union College is not, as so many have been led to believe by the mere nature· of what a ''women's group'' should be, a radical, politically oriented group out to revolutionize the. world. It does not bite. It does not fold, spindle or mutilate. Rather:, it is a group of con- cerned women and men who believe in unifying the women of Union. These people wish to create a healthy, supportive atmosphere at the college, one in which women on campus can . feel secure both as individuals and as a group as a whole. They also .attempt to keep all in- terested women and' men in· formed of pertinent issues relating to women both locally and on a more widespread basis. The Network itself is com- posed of an Executive Board and three sub-committees. The three committees focus in on specific issues while the Executive Board maintains a. relative sense of calm and homeostasis within the group. It is a uniting factor for the group, especially .for the relatively independent committees. The Action Committee is the most political of the sub- committees, focusing in on the actual tangible needs of women on campus. In the past term, the Action Committee has gotten security to install more ef- fective lighting around the campus and is now in the process of drawing up and presenting a proposal to the Student Affairs Council to ob- tain a part time gynecologist on campus and the dispension of birth control through Union's Health Service. The Activities Committee is presently organizing a campus-wide cocktail party for both the female students and professors of Union. They are also involved in arranging for speakers, forums and workshops. Recently an abortion forum was held, celebrating the 1973 Supreme Court decision allowing all women the freedom of choice for abortions. The Women's Week Committee is currently in the process of setting up our annual Women's Week, a week in the middle of April that focuses in on and celebrates women through a series of speakers, workshops and sundry activities. are asking, so to explain briefly, The Women's Network is also it is a weekend that is being involved with the President's planned by and for the college Commission on the Status of students in the tri-city area. 'l'lle Women at Union College. Our idea came about when students representatives on the Com- from Union, SUNY A, and RPI mission attend their meetings gathered together in West and report back to us and keep College on a brisk autumn day us infonned on what is hap- in October. They felt that it was pening concerning women all time for Jewish students over the campus. (regardless if they were or- Union College's Women's thodox, conservative, refonn, Network is a dynamic nonreligious) in this area to get Qrganization which is con· together and. spend a Shabbat stantly out to better the status of away from all the campuses women on campus and to in- and discuss issues of concern to form both women and men of all Jews. what we are doing. An The Kallah, \The American organization ·such as ours Jewish Experience: Cultural, serves a vital purpose on any Religious, Secular, Zionist . . . college campus, but cannot How do YOU fit in?\ will take represent all Union women place Feb. 20 to 22 at Camp without knowing ther diverse Eisner in Great Barrington, needs and desires. See what the Mass., a beautiful place to Women's Network is about. spend a weekend. Attend the next meeting on What does one do at a Kallall? Wednesday, Feb. 11, at 7:30 The keynote addresse will be p.m. If you have any questions given by Professor Stephen M. prior to the meeting, call Amy Berk of the Union History at 393-9879 or Diane or Sonia at Department. . Throughout the 393~9303. The Women's Network weekend, there will be is a non-dis·criminatory discussion groups, panels, and organization and needs your other speakers dealing with the input to remain effectively American Jewish Experience operative. and how it all relates to you-the college student. In addition, Frosh Rep Results the~e will be Shabbat ex- periences, dance, song, a cof- A . d feehouse, and ample time to n n 0 U n C e enjoy the camp. Skating and The three top vote-getters in Monday's elections for the two Freshman Representative positions to the Student Forum were Caryn Opengart, Gary S. Lehr and Vivian Stern. They are facing off today in a run-off to determine who will fill the posts. Opengart received 21.3 percent of the 319 votes cast. Lehr finished second, with 18.8 percent and Stem third, with 14.1 percent. · Other candidates in the election were Thomas F. Gengo Jr., who received12.9 percent of the vote; Timothy J. Smith, who received 12.2 percent, Robert Bassin, who received 11.6 percent; and Jeffrey L. Berger, who received 9.1 percent. All freshmen are eligible to vote in today's run-off, taking place in the lobby of Carnegie Hall. Hillel Trip Scheduled \What is a Kallah? People toboggoning are available, but you must bring your own equipment. The group will leave Union early Friday afternoon and will be returning Sunday around 1 p.m. The cost for the Kallah is $20 for Hillel members and $3 for round-trip bus tran- sportation from Albany to Eisner. The fee includes all kosher meals and ac- comodations. The fee is $30 for non-members. Tomorrow, Feb. 6, is the last day for registration. Applications handed in after that time must be accompanied by a $5late fee. Applications are available in Carnegie, the library or by calling 346-3943. There is limited space available, therefore ap- plications will be handled on a first-come, first-served basis. On Sunday, Feb. 8, JSO- HILLEL Will sponsor a Bagel and Lox brunch, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Kosher Kitchen in West College. $1 for members and $2 for non-members. Come Call Days Evenings & Weekends CLASSES BEGIN 1/25 Educational Center TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 Albany Center 163 Delaware Ave Delmar, Ns Yo 12054 (518) 439·8146 For Information Abou~ Other Centers In More Than 80 Major US Citi&s & Abroad Outside NY State CALL TOLL FREE: 880·223·1782 : . :· . . ' . . . . ' . ' ·. : ~ . . ·: .. . .. by and enjoy! Rabbi Zimand is available for counseling every Wednesday from 2 to 4 p.m. In the clergy room near the Davidson Lounge. Massa Explains Financial Aid If you are frustrated by the high cost of your college education, there is one sure way to complicate yoor situation: submit a late application for financial aid. \While not everyone who applies for aid will receive assistance,\ says Union Financial Aid Director Robert J. Massa, ''those who apply late will be at a severe competitive disadvantage.'' The'deadline for submitting the Financial Aid Form (FAF) to the College Scholarsbip Service in Princeton is MARCH 1. The F AF must be completed by your parents if you will be claimed a$ a dependent on their 1980 federal income tax return. Union's own Financial Aid Application must he completed by you, with a deadline date of APRIL 15. Although the College in- creased the amount of money budgeted for financial aid along with the hike in tuition, Massa anticipates that more people will apply for and need financial aid than ever before. \With the total cost, including estimated personal expenses, hovering at around $9,500,\ he claims, \the competition for available dollars will be keen. We will not, and can not, hold up the awarding of aid to some needy student in anticipation of receiving late applications from students currently receiving aid.\ To help students complete the aid applications, and to provide general information on aid for next year, Massa and Financial Aid Counselor Gary Robinson are holding a series of workshops in residence halls during February. There will also be sessions for fraternity and off-campus residents later · this month. Students are en- couraged to pick up the needed forms as soon as possible from the Office of Financial Aid, second floor, Becker Hall. One final piece of advice from the Financial Aid .Office: \An early application will not necessarily assure ones assistance. But a late ap- plication will ahnost certainly result in less or no aid for 1981- 82. Pick up your applications now and submit them before the deadlines. 'TM' lecture Monday This Monday, Feb. 9 at 8 p.m. in Strauss Lounge a guest speaker, Robert Omansky, will be speaking on the \Tran- scendental Meditation technique.\ Robert Omansky is a trained and experienced teacher of the Transcendental Meditation Program who has lectured at numerous area Colleges and Universities as well as Adult Education groups on the topic of \How to Release Stress Naturally.'' Omansky, drawing from a volume of scientific research, will also discuss developing 100 percent of ones mental potential, in- creasing one's I.G., improving concentration and social relations as a result of the practice. The lecture is free and open to all interested. An opportunity for discussion will follow. For further information call 370- 4393. Service Vehicles cannot gain · access to the side (Pub) en- trance of Carnegie because cars are illegally parked. New signs will be posted in that area in- forming the campus that this is a DELIVERY ZONE and cars will be towed away in the future. Playing It Safe . • • Continued from page 1 an example of the former, he cited the fining schedule that was introduced several years ago for students expelling fire extinguishers, which begins at $25. \Upperclassmen didn't take it seriously and were penalized,\ Wood said. \But freshmen coming in the last few years have learned to respect the rules.\ As for safety improvements, Wood noted that Alumni Gym has been renovated and its maximum capacity increased from about 200 to close to 1,000. Without this work, he added, events such as last weekend's Blotto concert couldn't have taken place in the building. Barry Watkins, the campus fire marshall who was on duty Saturday night at Alumni Gym, said he's \met a lot of good people,\ in the month that he's worked here. \We all want students to like us,\ he added. \But they have to realize that, in doing our job, we have no choice but to come down hard if security and safety rules are broken. That's what we have to do if we're going to protect this campus.'' ------------COUPON·------------, I I f :0~~\\ BuY 1 GET 1 u\':&y : I 0 111 I : Op!~e~:ys \'f2 PRICE! Let. : I Us I : o;~r LYLE'S P~e:Uarre : : Submarines Dinner, 1 & Snack, Hot Brunch Sandwiches H Q A G J E s or Your Munchies Soda Ice Cream 460 State Street Shakes Soup (near Schenectady Savings Bank next door to Jake Lipstein's Liquor Store) Expires 2-12-81 ------------~OUPO~------------

Page 6 OONCORDIENSIS, February 5, 1981 ~ts ' < • ' • • • • 1 ·, • : I ' • - ' ' \ culture • ':, • • • ' • ' :- ; ' I • ·,. ' ' Introducing Guest Director Tom Briggs By DEMETRA M. PONTISAKOS You just can't imagine what Union Theatre has this term. Union Theatre has Tom Briggs - multi-talented, warm, funny, worldly Tom Briggs - as a guest artist responsible for the direction and choreography of Working which is being prepared in the Nott for a Feb. 20 opening. Originally from Waukesha, Wise., Torn entered the theatre world at the age of ten when he . ..;tarted studying and per- forming with a children's .Lheater group. He joined the actor's union and landed his first professional acting job at the age of twelve. A singer, actor and dancer, he played the part of Kurt in a Chicago production of The Sound of Music. And it's been theater ever since for him. Says Tom, \I never wanted to do anything but theater. In high school I would do any shows I could - area college productions, dinner theater in Chicago and Milwaukee,\ and even local television and radio com- mercials. How did his parents feel about all.this? \My Mom loved it - thought, 'fine, do whatever you want to do - whatever makes you happy.' But my Dad thought that I was closing myself to other possibilities and that I shouldn't just limit myself to the theater world so early in life. He made me play one sport a year, so I chose swimming and diving. I did well, I set county and state records -but I hated it. But I did it for Dad.\ So, throughout high school, Tom was doing a lot of in- teresting things with his talent. For example, he toured Wisconsin and other parts of America with \The Kids from Wisconsin'' for two summers (a select group formed through Governor Warren Knowles' Youth Power Program), and then he went to college at the State University .of Wisconsin. That didn't last long, college disappointed him. It wasn't what he had expected. During his first Christmas break, he auditioned for Doc Severenson's group, \The New Generation Brass\ and was accepted into the group. He finished his first term at the State University, and went on the road with in February with Doc. What a life! He did the Tonight Show with this group, he played the Condado Beach Hotel in San Juan - and oh, so many other exciting places. And when that affair ended, he became part of a group of 12 young performers under Mike Douglas called \The Fresh Collection.'' Boom- his first Las Vegas act - in the \Sahara\. After that it was with Tenessee Ernie Ford's group - \Brothers & Sisters\. After those few years travelling around, doing TV commercials and shows and industrial convention acts, our director decided to go to Los Angeles to get some work in T.V. and filming. Working out of Chicago, he landed a bit part in \Gaily Gaily\ a Norman Jewison film with Beau Bridges. He got an agent and then began doing commercials, (isn't he the guy in the Frosted Mini-Wheats commercial? Yes. ) and even appeared on a couple of episodes of Room 222 (remember that show?). But L.A. was lonely and depressing for Mr. Briggs and after all his singing and dancing and film work which doesn't make any creative demands on the actor, he decided it was time to go back to school to learn ''legitimate acting,'' stage acting. So, he returned to the State University -only this time in Milwaukee - to finish his studies - all the while still participating in area shows and touring groups: \I did most 'of my college wGrk on the road.\ Then, at the age of 22, he decided he'd like to try the directorial side of theater: he began choreographing and then directing-community theater, college theater, high school theater. And when he graduated from college, he went back to the children's group he began his career with at the age of ten, to direct a cast of children aged 10 to 15 in a most successful production of Li'l Abner - a show which he would like to direct on Broadway using children: \All kids- It works so well - It's like a real cartoon.\ Well, enough of this. It . was high time Tom moved to New York City where all the real stage action is. So, at the age of 25, he made the big step. Discouraged at first because he looked a lot younger than he was ami couldn't get directing jobs, and because what your past experience in theater has been didn't seem important to New York producers unless it was experience in New York, and because getting jobs seemed to depend on who you knew and not what you knew, Torn gradually began to meet new people and to get jobs - starting with stage managing in the O'Neill Theatre Center, The Kennedy Center, and the Musical Theatre Lab. Then in New York he got a job to choreograph an original musical in Chicago which has been picked up for Broadway, and which he may choreograph on Broadway. After choreographing a few shows, Tom decided that he no longer wanted to work with someone else's ideas, He ''didn't want to direct or choreograph something that someone else had already written and directed,\ so he began developing ideas of his own - he began writing. Be was first hired by the National Theatre of the Handicapped as a music and lyric composer for their premier production. Then, the National Theatre of the Handicapped (NTH) was commissioned by Doubleday to publish a work book of the group's development up through their premier production (a period of two years) whereupon the NTH's founding director com- missioned- guess who - yes, our friend Mr. Briggs - to do the job. The book will be released in May of this year. And it doesn't stop there. The excitement has just begun. Tom spent all of last year writing his very own musical entitled · Mickey and Judy which, after a backer's audition with Mike Nichols last week, is currently being optioned for Broadway. So, like hey, what did we do to deserve this overwhelming bundle of talent at little old Union College in little old Schenectady? Well, it's like this: Atone point when Tom had been working at the O'Neill Center in New York, he was asked by a friend to choreograph a show at the National Theatre Institute (NTI) in Connecticut - a place where college students can spend a term-taking courses in acting, stage design, choreography, singing, dan- cing, costuming, etc., and wovk on a touring production. Tom took the job: \I love wc:>rking with college students. There are no producers, .stars or agents breathing down your neck; you can do whatever you want wtthout all those pressures. Also, college students do theater because they love it, not because they need the money; and I find that the less ex- perieRce a person has in per- forming, acting, whatever, the less bad habits there are for a director to work through. At N.T.I., two df the students Tom worked with were Union's Sharon Ruben and John Rose, and so, when Union Theatre needed a director last minute two years ago to save a show ( a11d not only save it, made it sparkle real pretty), The Robber Bridegroom, Sharon ..._ and John asked Tom Briggs and ~ it was history from then on. The e ·· show was a smash. C!l Then, last term, drama ~ ·· '·~';,;J!' Professor Barry Smith decided ~ to cal'l on Tom again to see if he • would be willing to work at £ Union again on any musi~al he .E chose. Return to old friends? _g You betcha! Tom chose c.. /,-- Working, and so far it looks like Director-choreographer T0m Briggs d0ing his johand Iovin' it. the show is gonna be another crowd pleaser! Why Working, though? First of all, because it is a musical - not a classic, not a heavy drama which too many colleges get caught up in, and yet it has impact: \Working\, says Briggs, \is a show that proves you can entertain, and at the same time educate the audience and leave them with something important they can go home with. It is not all frivolity.\ \Also Working is an en- . semble show - there are no leading roles, and no only are the actors on the same level with each other· as far as carrying the production, they're on the same level with the technical people too. The technical devices are as im- portant and sometimes more important than the performers; if the lights don't come up at precise moments, we have no show. It is truly an ensemble effort - a communal effort.\ · Briggs says he's doing this particular show for \some selfish reasons too.\ The show was not a big one in New York City. It was perhaps poorly done. Doing it over again at Union gives Tom a chance tore- conceive the open-book show, to make it whatever he wants it to 9e, to create beyond what tbe script is. Working gives him a chance to explore all theatrical possibilities, \It's glitzy, funny, colored by laughs, love tears; and wonderful technical possibilities.\ And Union is a good place to do Working - Union is an audience who needs to see Working - an audience who needs to realize who sweated to build the building they're sleeping in, who picked the lettuce that sits in a pretty salad on their dinner table. Union is an audience who needs to stop and think about these things. And who needs to stop and think - do I have something to point to? Something I sweated for? A cause? A finished product? The people involved in this show will have that something starting Feb. 20. There's a good reason to be there -whether it be Briggs, or entertainment, or education, or ... be there. Elvis Squeezed Out ByMATTCOBEN On Sunday night, Elvis Costello and the Attractions headlined a concert at the Palladium in New York. Elvis was warmed up by the English band, Squeeze. Drawing mainly from their successful album, \Argy Bargy,\ Squeeze played a very strong hour set. The band opened with \There at the Top,\ and went right into \If I Didn't Love You.\ The band also went back to their previous albwn, \Cool For Cats,\ and gave a very receptive audience a taste of their new album, due out in March. Squeeze proved a true rock and roll band, which seemed to enjoy being on stage. The band was very tight and the packr-u audience was reluctant to kt them leave the stage. Squeeze was enjoyably in contrast to usual warm-up acts, which are frequently booed off the stage before they are through. Elvis and his Attractions had a tough act to follow, and un- fortunately, they failed to live up to expectations. The problem, as is sometimes evident on his albums, was that the lyrics were lost. Costello was brief; not a motion was wasted as he focused on his songs. As his fans know, Elvis rarely moves from his planted position in front of the- only microphone. The set, in which the band ripped off more than 20 songs in a little more than an hour, drew mainly from recent and new works. Classics were few and far between, being limited to \Allison \Radio Radio,\ \Red Shoes,\ and \Watching the Detectives,\ which came as the final encore. These few came off as quick \familiars\ to give the band a rest and to keep the fans happy. Costello's concert was brief Transcendental Meditation Program Lecture \Developing Your Full Potential Enjoyably\ Monday, Feb.9,Bp.m. Strauss Lounge Info. 382-0413 and to the point. What could have been a great show fell just short. Some people may have been offended by Elvis's out- ward arrogance, but The Attractions came to rock, and they did just that. Elvis didn't say much more than an oc- casional \thank you,\ and rarely diverted from the clean- cut sound, with the exception of one brief solo. The fans, however, were exuberant and responsive anyway. On this particular evening, the real attractions were the members of Squeeze. If you want to go away and study with Union Terms Abroad Plan to be there in 55016 today at 4:30p.m. - - Th out, agai this puril psyc Fre! Vegt pub€ rock forct Pistt origi ~nou feel criti bytl fit bl coul enjo and mal! liste \ \ ' \Cl phrl moe AN~ iinC D.K mar but pre< ima and outl let'~ decl of- belt soci w ami knit Rea exti SUp] Poo \Ct eith win pro I sue I is ~ Tru res· poli Wa1 farr the hal tes~ livi knc ten gas pla Clu Ca( A ver mit tim the

OONCORDIENSIS} February 5_, ,1981 Page 7 arts ' \ ' . ' \\ ' - ' ' .., ' - . ' I ' ' • t ' ' • ' ~ ' • '' ' • : culture Rot By STEVE MONOSSON The Dead Kennedys' LP is out, and it's good to ·be young again. A breath of fresh air is this vinyl viper, reeking in purifying qecadence and quasi- psychotic glee. The record, Fresh Fruit for Rotting Vegetables, reminds me of the pubescent glory days of punk rock where the sheer brute force of groups like the Sex Pistols, The Dead Boys, or the original Clash overwhelmed one ~nough so that he or she did not feel immediately compelled to critically take the album apart by the seams and hope that it all fit back together again so that it could be aesthetically O.K. to enjoy it. But times have changed and almost nothing REALLY makes one prick up an ear to listen hard. \It sounds like . . . \ \Reminds me of . . . \ and \Cliche!\ are often heard phrases used when discussing modern music or modern ANYTHING for that matter i including people). And yes, the D.K. 's album does sound like many of its punk predecessors, but unlike many of its predecessors it is funny as hell, imaginatively played, poignant, and presents a fairly ingenious outlook on a very screwed up let's-try-self-destructive- decadence-for-a change- of-pace(i.e. the election of our beloved President) modern society. What the D.K.'s do, in part, amidst \their jubilant, tightly knit, thrashing is to take the Reagan outlook to its logical extreme and boisterously mock support it. Songs like \Kill the Poor,\ \Police Truck,\ and \Chemical Warfare\ suggests either the \proper\ ultra-right wing solutions to America's problems or a result of taking such an action. \Kill the Poor\ is self-explanatory; \Police Truck'' posits the idea of a restriction free, potshotting police state; and \Chemical Warfare\ presents us with the familiar Jello Biafra (leader of the D.K.'s) persona of the happy psychotic, the quin- tessential victim of modern living, who here is seen knocking off Saturday af- ternoon golfers by way of poison gas at an unsuspecting, com- placent, upperclass Country Club. It is a (more) demented Caddyshack. A more important and often very funny point to their ad- mittedly derivative although at times very much rising-above- the-heap sound, is their On treatment of the modern \liberalism;'. Jane Fonda on the. screen today - Convinced the liberals it's okay So let's get dressed and dance the night away While they ... Kill Kill Kill Kill Kill the poor . . . tonite. -\Kill The Poor\ Today's \liberals\, say \the D.K.'s, are an ineffective, starry-eyed, for the most part fullashit, bunch. Constant dope smoking does not a true liberal make, although Jello and his crew certainly do not slight the process of self-:-intoxication itself. In fact they down right exalt it in the pleaful toetapper \Drug Me\ (HOW ELSE can you handle it all?). It's just that for the Dead Kennedys (and, incidentally, this writer) calling oneself a liberal because one meditates and eats health food is as bogus as is the behavior of the urban cowboy types who'd probably try to milk the first living horse they encountered. Empty slogans are the essence of contemporary liberalism. The D.K. 's sar- donically stress the need for -many of today's soi-disant liberals to face up to the idleness of their own rhetoric: It's time to taste what you most fear Right Guard will not help you here Brace yourself my dear ... It's a Holiday in Cambodia Where you'll do what you're told It's a Holiday in Cambodia Where the slums got so much soul -\Holiday in Cambodia\ If one is going to be truly liberal, it is time to quit shun- ning real progress and to take a good look at a calendar. Fifteen years have elapsed since your (or your older sister's) last original thought. In short, it is high time to quit ''rotting,\ being laughed at by the dominating right wing, and to get back into the swing of things. Finally, AND IF YOU'VE SKIPPED THE ENTIRE MIDSECTION OF THIS AR· TICLE (which you probably have) READ THIS LAST BIT IF NOTHING ELSE. The Dead Kennedys are exactly what you need to illwninate (double and triple entendres intended) your whole lifestyle. They make you aware and exorcise (tem- porarily, at any rate) you of Union College Concert Committee Presents: AN EVENING WITH JAMES TAYLOR Saturday, February 28 at S p.m. Tickets on Sale Monday, Fe'bruary 9, 1-4 p.m. at Carnegie Hall One Ticket ·per Union College I.D., Limit: 10 $10 w/Union I.D. $12 a·ll others Note: best seats have been reserved for Union College students for sale Monday and Tuesday .. So buy yours then. your hypocrisies, inadequacies, etc. as well as making you laugh so hard that you come close to choking on your granola bar. I mean, iook, I've been listening to this record for a mere two weeks and already I'm feeling ideologically fit as a fiddle. Seriously, folks, what it comes down to is that Fresh Fruit is a fine party record, and I don't use that term loosely. It gets everything out in the open as well as knocking you over with it's brute, comic force. Also you can dance to it. THURSDAy I FEBRUARY 5th ACTS: Rich Decker & Rich Hope MC 1 s: Bill DiConza & Robin Molella Another Hot Cabaret By BETH MEYERS Because I'm not too familiar with many of the musical aspects of Union College, and not having been to too many of this year's Cabaret per- formances, I walked into the Cabaret room last Thursday not knowing what to expect. Eric Rubin I've heard much about, but I figured I should see him to judge for myself. Then there was Dani Raphael and ''Friends\. That title didn't give me much to go on. I had no idea who or what to expect, but, fortunately, I was pleasantly surprised. The late show of Cabaret is known for its rowdier crowds. This week it was a type of \mellow-rowdy\ crowd, a group who responded well to the entertainers and helped them perform well. The M.C.-less .show began with the talents of Eric Rubin. I've heard other people perform Eric's first song, \Heart of Gold,\ but never any with the added touch of a harmonica. Its sound was just the perfect touch to a solo performance of the tune and made the song more complete. Eric's musical abilities were well displayed through his skilled guitar playing and the varied use of his harmonica. Also, his own compositions impressed me very much. \Back Home\ was a good finger-snappin' song. There was th9 \typical\ heart- wrenching ballad about an aspiring singer, but this one came from a point of view that everyone could empathize with. It was special. In \The Music Store\ the clerk who was wanting something more from life became someone who I got attached to, with whom I sympathized. During his song \Purely Platonic\ Eric was graced by handfuls of pretzels when Eric cleverly quipped, \Come on, girls! You know the words,\ and \I'm going out with a Union girl!\ Accompanying ~ric in \Damage Done\ was Judybeth Green. The two voices com- plimented each other well and with a little work, they could become a great act for a future Cabaret. Congrats to Eric for this performance and I'll be looking forward to more. The second act of the evening was well worth waiting for. Dani Raphael is a newcomer to Union who will be appearing in the musical Working along with Eric. She captured the audience with her strong, clear and altogether pleasing voice in renditions of \Don't Stop,\ \Please Come To Boston,\ \Heat Wave,\ \Blue Bayou,\ and an origianl song spon- taneously named \Jenny's Song\ after its composer Jenny Shaw. Dani, with her pretty, pretty voice did real justice to these songs. A lot is to be at- tributed to Dani's \Friends\ because as Dani herself said, without them this act never would have happened. Jenny, who was featured in \Four and Twenty,'' was on acoustic guitar, Jim Ward was on bass. During their perfonnance we were treated to a drum solo by Clint Sours which was preceded by a wild ride on the guitar by the talented Mike Zanta. For a HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Dave Davies February 3 group which had only been together eight, no six, days, they were phenomenal. If they were to play again, I would definitely be there to see them and would tell all my friends. We'll be looking forward to seeing Working, also! The evening was a great way to spend the Thursday of the fourth week of a chilling winter term. Cabaret was as warm as it was inspiring. Here's to the warmth and joy of future Cabarets! Attention Photographers: Starting this week, the Concordiensis will be affording student and faculty photographers a weekly chance to have their work presented on the newspaper's Arts & Culture pages. All are welcome to submit prints they have shot and developed~ ! ! Procedure: Submit your prints to the Arts department secretary or to Concordiensls with your name, telephone number, box number, and titlP of your print, and any other information you would like to convey about your print, either written on the back or attached to the print. Every week, the editors of Concordiensis will chose a print to use in publication. Yes- all prints will be returned to you whether they are used or not. We are not looking for snapshots! We are looking for the kind of art work that is being produced in Union's photography classes. This is a chance to improve your school newspaper-don't pass it up! Any questions? Call Demetra Pontisakos: 370-6869.

\ Page 8 . CONOORDIENSIS, February 5, 1981 ures Valentine's Personals will accepted for these pages be between now and next Tuesday. Slip them under the Concordiensis office door on fourth floor, Carnegie, and I Put a little Love in Print. Winter Takes All By JUDI CHERVENAK and SCOTT GR.EENBAUM Winter in the Northeast is cold and bleery, a season in which all activity creeps to a near halt as warmth is con- served. Four solid months of creeping to an impending halt can really wear on one's nerves. It's something like waiting for that second shoe to drop, and drop it does! At schools all over this frozen tundra, the begin· ning of February brings a temporary reprieve from tl1e slowed motion of winter long enough for one blast of spring, Winter Carnival·! Tulane has its Mardi Gras, U.S.C. its Rose Pageant, Penn its Mupliners Parade, and we of the Nor- . · theast, our festival of frosty frolic. Substituting ice sculp- tures for the flower ,petal floats of Pasadena, hockey games for the Rose Bowl, and fraternity bashes for the . . . well, some things are universal, and schools such as Dartmouth, Williams, and Amherst throw the party of the season. of beer on the basement .floor of Delta Tau Omega (''Animal Hou~e\). Alt~o~gh. many partres are by 111v1tatton only, such as the annual champagne flood at the Harold Parminton Foundation, Spirits flow freely enough for all partiers, native or not, to forget the worries .of midterms, the rigors of papers and the dreariness of winter and enjoy a carefree weekend of, as one favorite Hanover night~pot puts it, \Good friends, good victuals, and strong waters.\ Schenectady Walking At Dartmouth, preparation begins weeks in advance as a huge ice sculpture is ,carefully created on the central com· mons. In tribute to the Lake Placid Winter Olympics, last year's sculpture depicted the ninety meter ski jumper about to hit his takeoff. Even more imposing than this gargantuan welcome mat, however, is the party atmosphere that per- meates the entire campus. The Carnival officially begins with a concert (Harry Chapin ap- peared at Dartmouth last year), from then on the progress of the festivities is carefully recorded by the level Of course, when the beer at Delta reaches high tide and the first bus from Colby begins its trek home, laden with \random women,\ the books come out again and the winter winds are just as frigid. Any veteran of Winter Carnival will gladly swear, however (over a free drink), that the memories working on an ice sculpture, throwing the party of the weekend, or winning an amazing game of beer pong is enough to take a bit of the chill out of winter in the Northeast. ByDANRYAN I admit that when I first arrived in Schenectady, a nervous and impressionable freshman, I was unimpressed with the city. The next night, when my R.A. led a toast saying that \The only good thing about Schenectady is that it isn't Troy,\ I downed my glass of Genny Cream with the proper amount of scorn for the Electric City. Where were the crowded streets, the bright marquees, and booming business districts that I was used to driving through in my hometown. Like all big-city sophisticates, I knew that those were some of the necessary elements in making a town worth living in. All I saw when I first rode through the city were squalid little shops clinging like aphids to narrow and insignificant streets. It was when I first walked through Schenectady, though, that my negative impressions began to fade. Schenectady is a town for walking. You can't appreciate Schenectady if you are cut off from it by a car window. You have to walk. Sometime, take a walk down Gillespie Street to the corner where it meets Union A venue. But don't walk with your mind concentrated on getting to the corner. Walk alive. Hear the students cranking Neil Young in their apartments. Gillespie Street isn't a slick apartment complex where tenants rent units. It is a street with character, where students live in houses. Feel the wind as you are walking. The wind makes sure that the air in Schenectady doesn't get stagnant and polluted. Today you are breathing air that was somewhere in the countryside yesterday. When you reach the corner, you notice one of those dull, dingy grocery shops that infest Schenectady like fleas. As you walk in, though, you notice that the signs are hand-lettered. Coming from a \real city,\ you are surprised to see a sign that rtidn't roll off the printing presses in hundreds. The wood floor also catches your eye. \Wouldn't tile be more modern and convenient?\ you think. But you enjoy hearing your footsteps on the wooden floor, and you walk the short distance to the meat counter in the back. Here, you find that the cold cuts aren't in bright yellow cellophane packages with the weight in grams marked on them. They're in lang pieces, and the meats are fresh and colorful. Picking up a few things that look too good to pass up, you take your bundle to the cash register in the front of the store. The lady there is wearing a cardigan sweater instead of the ugly aprons they wear in the bigger supermarkets, and she is openly pleasant as she rings up your purchases. There are many walking tours of Schenectady. Walk up Rugby Road to the laundromat where I was able to get my suit dry-cleaned in an hour. Talk to the old lady who runs it. She'll tell you what she thinks about the President. She'll tell you what she thinks about Schenectady Mayor Duci. She'll tell you what she thinks about that Union student who thinks he knows everything. You'll walk out of the laundromat with a good memory and a clean suit. Walk to Jay Street when you've got an afternoon to spend browsing. You'll find people in the shops there who will help you pick out exactly what you want. Even better, though, they'll let you browse for hours. Take your time, and come back again. You don't feel. pressured to buy on Jay Street. And when you want to buy, you'll have a hard time finding better bargains then are available there. I could list many more places to visit. Places that you wouldn't stop at if you were driving past. Such as a certain cafe where the blueberry muffins are buttered and toasted to perfection. While you are walking through the Stockade (even people who don't like Schenectady like the Stockade! ) , let Miss Janey take \you for a tour of the Schenec- tady County Historical Society. You will definitely come out impressed with the history of this area. The point of this article is that Schenectady cannot be ap- preciated through car windows. Schenectady doesn't have the ~bustling crowds and gigantic stores of other cities to lend excitement. The excitement of Schenectady is in putting your feet on the sidewalk and ex- Apology The Features Editors apologize name in last week's paper in the to Coralyn Hertzberg for the article about women faculty. accidental misspelling of her perieacing some of the people who giv:e the town character . .A car is too fast to meet people. Schenectady is enjoyed by people much more so than by drivers. · Co·sts 'Evoke Comment By BRIAN QUINT \I think it's too bad. Some people will really have a hard time being able to stay in school ... but it's necessary to keep the school running.\ So said Diane Sullivan, a junior, in response to questions concerning the announcement by the Administration that a 13.6 percent increase in costs will occur for students at· tending Union next year. Most students interviewed echoed Sullivan's sentiment: \I expected it,\ said freshman Jim Steen burgh. \Everything is going up now.\ Michael Rock, a senior, although noting that the hikes will take affect after he graduates, agreed. \It's pretty expected. The cost of education nationwide and productivity is going to increase.\ He em- phasized that he feels that people should expect tighter times ahead. Some undergraduates were worried about the price hike's affect on making ends meet and getting adequate financial aid. \It seemed an awful big jump, all of a sudden,\ said Mike Klaiman. He added that it will make things more difficult and \not easy for a lot of us to take.\ Lori Favata, a freshman, felt . the increase will affect many people and that for some they will \seriously consider whether or not to come back.\ A freshman, who asked to remain anonymous, said the price hike was a real problem and that \on a personal level, it will make coming back here very difficult unless financial aid is raised quite propor- tionally.\ A major problem most American institutions are dealing with is deciding whether services should be cut back to keep costs down. Nearly all interviewed here were against drastic cuts in services provided to the Union student, but the answers ranged from those advocating no cutbacks to those wanting the elimination of courses containing a few students. Running concurrently to the services versus cost problem is the concern of how existing funds are ap- propriated. A .freshman: \We really don't know where it's (money) going.\ Two freshmen, who asked to remain anonymoas, agreed. \I'd like to see more about the distribution and I wonder where the extra 13.6 percent is going to,\ said one. The other was concerned with the building of- the Astroturf football field and \didn't see where they're ap- propriating\ current funds. Some felt money was being wasted. Jared Squires, a fresh· man pledge to Phi Gamma Delta, said that although there wasn't \that much waste,\ there were \some areas not all that important\ that money was spent on. He cited excess mailroom memos to students, leaky faucets and lights left on. Squires suggested that a pitch should be made to students to save whenever they can. Val Gutterman felt strongly that there \definitely is a lot of waste.\ She pointed out that the heat during fall term was left on during warm spells in her dorm and that paper is consistently wasted. Gutterman advocated an optional meal plan for fresh· men who don't eat breakfast, an aggressive policy by the College to obtain discounts on student phone bills and a Student Union to deal with assorted problems. In some sch'ools, such as SUNY at Albany, students have formed associations to protest and demonstrate against similar price hikes. Most of those interviewed felt that Union students should have the opportunity to protest. However, there was nearly a unanimous agreement that most of their colleagues wouldn't protest. \I don't think people will do it .because most here aren't paying for tuition ... It's not directly affecting them,\ said Ken Carlson, a Psi Upsilon junior. .. Diane Sullivan thought it would be \very hard to get people together to protest. I think students are afraid to get together, to get that close\ and they avoid this \by pretending not to care.\ A freshman girl summed up what most who were in- terviewed concerning a Union student protest said: \It wouldn't werk. A lot of students are a little too involved in their own goals and what they want to get out of lJnion. They don't care about the College as a whole. I wish students were more involved and caring.\ President Morris • • • Continued from page 3 administrative aides form an important group because they administer on behalf of the President so it is through them that I become aware of the basic problems and any advice must come from them. Also, a small group in the governance called the Conference Com· mittee. There is also the Priorities and Planning Conunittee Which is an im\ portant group especially con- cerned with long-term priorities. C: How close-important an adviser to you is Mrs. Morris? PM: I wotild say that Mrs. Morris is a confidant rather than an adviser. What Enid brings is her own particular kind of interest in the College. I think she does that well. Her involvement comes just from being herself. It would be verY difficult for me to un· derestimate her contribution. C: The proverbial \buck\ is going to stop here, at your desk. Does that make this what might be considered a \high· pressure\ job? PM: Yes, it's a high-pressure job, fortunately, the pressure comes at intervals, but the intensity is always there. Fortunately I've found ways of relieving this with a turn in t~d pool, though not as often as I like. Other ways, well, I read, of course in my field, and I find a good escape in what .. I call \detective fiction.\ That's pure escapist reading. . & - Un Fo1 old' t Wint canc4 dinnE activ onic4 willt• of a ,4 sculp mittE planr even1 unila even1 stud.: loss,. entht HowE artie: (see: of m scho< of 0 so cia inten point why SUCCI del vi by t: well. reas< Th estal Wint Unio trutll mitt4 the Bett: Hurl the varil and fact p.iva actu dane year that the s tern and invo enou loss appr of tt was then Ho inc or for < as ' Corn H M hav, soci plea and mm nin~ mor pro1 live ner1 SOr< uni' Sigr of tl Tl Sig1 Uni 188l ma1 at{ sec cha Am foUJ M:a Col M:a: 0

of mal any ·Of and as at the its out are of ure, the an is st. as of the a it not said it get I and ding up in· of they as a \ Her un· is the of the s I'd of call pure OONCORDIENSIS. Fevruary 5. 1981 Page 9 Union's Winter Carnival: Blue Skies Over Union: Behind the Scenes Hot~ Wet and Healthy ByD~BOOTH For the first time in a notaso- old' tradition, · the activities of Winter Carnival have been cancelled. 'There will be no dinner dance, nor any sports activities .such as the tug-of-war on ice. Only the snow sculptures will remain, with the added zest of a .cash prize for the winning sculpture. The Social Com- mittee, which does aU the planning and work for such an event, is responsible for. the unilateral decision to cancel the events, citing such reasons as student apathy, a monetary loss, as well as a small return of enthusiasm for their efforts. However, as cited in another article about Winter Carnivals (see story, page 8), this event is of major importance at other schools, breaking the monotony of their winters and exciting social life. Basically, it is the intention of this interview to point out some of the reasons why Winter Carnival is not a success at Union, by further delving into the reasons given by the Social Committee, as well as exploring other possible reasons. The first step was to establish, not only the fact that Winter Carnival is a failure at Union, but also, to establish the truth behind the Social Com- mittee's reasons for cancelling the Carnival Dinner Dance. Betty Dwoskin, '81, and Cindy Hurley, '82, Co-Chairpersons .of the Social Committee, made various replies. Ms. Dwoskin and Ms. Hurley explained the fact that Union's Winter Car- p.ival is a failure, not in terms of actual attendance at the dinner dance (considering that two years ago it was a sell-out, and that last year was 70 percent of the sell-out figure) but rather in terms of a return for the work and expense of the event. The involvement of students was not enough to justify the consistent loss of money and the lack of appreciation for· the hard work of the Social Committee which was particularly g~lling to them. However, there were several inconsistencies in the reasons for cancelling the event. Take as an example the Social Committee meeting, which ll' Concordiensis had stated would be an open meeting. ''The Social Committee meets Monday nights at 7 p.m. in Carnegie Hall, third floor. Anyone with suggestions or criticisms of the possible decision not to have Winter Carnival can attend.\ (Concordi~nsis, Jan. 22) The meeting in support of the Social Committee's statement concerning student apathy was devoid of non-committee members w:ith the exception of this reporter, one rather silent individual sitting in the corner and a representative of WRUC. However, there wasnodebate at that meeting about the \possible decision not to have Winter Carnival.'' There was, instead, a brief argument about the form of the prize for the best snow sculpture. The decision not to have Winter Carnival appeared to have been decided ·some time before; moreover, even had a large student contingent protested the move, it seemed that was already too late to procure a band and dance hall reservations. The amount of work and planning necessary for such an event necessitates far more planning than a couple of weeks. Ms. Dwoskin and Ms. Hurley stated they had made plans, even to the degree of reserving, but not confirming the Ramada Inn. Nonetheless, the decision not to have many of the ac- tivities of Winter Carnival had been made before this meeting. Ms. Hurley explained this oversight as being due to the fact that the Social Committee could not cancel Winter Car- nival Dinner Dance without first consulting the Student Forum. Even though the decision to cancel the activity had been made by the Com- mittee, it did not have tne ap- proval of the Student Forum, thus the word \possible.\ However,. it must be stressed that, in Ms. Hurley's words, ''Had 100 students come ,pounding at the door, we would have had the dinner dance.\ There was then the in- consistency that many ac- tivities of Winter Carnival were cancelled because, being held in the afternoon, few students could attend. Yet there was no Happy 93rd, PSK Men and women for centuries have banded together into small social groups, seeking mutual pleasure and association from and with one another. The. movement in America begin- ning shortly after the Civil War more than a century a_go, produced some of the longest- lived of such groups, cor- nerstones of the fraternity and sorority system on college and university campuses. Phi Sigma Kappa was-and is-one of these. The Beta Chapter of Phi Sigma Kappa was founded at Union University on Feb. 2, 1888. Thus, this last week marked their 93rd anniversary at Union. This chapter was the second of the present 136 chapters of Phi Sigma Kappa in America. The first chapter was founded on March 15, 1873 at Massachusetts Agriculture College--now University of Massachusetts. Originally formed as a double chapter of both undergraduates and graduate students from · Albany Medical Scheol, the fraternity here did not become solely an undergraduate organization until 1921, when the group was dissolved on the Albany Medical School campus. At this time, a local fraternity known as the Terrace Club existed at Union and came t{) comprise the original mem- bership of the Beta Chapter of Phi Sigma Kappa. Fraternities will continue to expand and prosper so long as they promote and support the same principles of higher education as do their hosts, the colleges and universities. In an expression of this, the Beta Chapter here will host a Con- clave of fourteen· chapters of Phi Sigma Kappa in the Nor- theast Provinces I and II next weekend. Ninety-three years and 967 brothers later, the Beta Chapter is still prospering. Happy anniversary Phi Sigma Kappa! mention of holding these events at night, after most class hours. Ms. Dwoskin had contactea Mr. Charles Morrison,. the Director of Achilles Rink, last spring. However, she was unable to secure the rink at night, due to opposition from Mr. Morrison. Apparently the rink is ~mly available to those groups who can pay for the privilege and the late night intramurals. Ms. Dwoskin. stated that \the school doesn't own the rink.\ She implied that individual student groups had no priority at the rink, with the exception of those long\standing reservations: intramurals, or those groups who would pay for the privilege. Another inconsistency was then noticed in the registration survey results and the actions of the Social Committee. The survey, which was handed out at registration, had its results published in the Jan. 22 issue of Concordiensis. These results stated students wanted more dances; it seemed rather ironic that students desired more dances, y.et the only dance at Union was being . cancelled. According to Ms. Hurley and Ms. Dwoskin, the results at- tributed to\' the Social Com- mittee activities were falsified by the Sty.dent Activities Office. According to Ms. Hurley, so few of the surveys were completed as to make their results negligible. In summation, it seems that the responsibility for the can- cellation of the Winter Carnival activities has been delegated squarely upon the Athletic Rink Directors, Student Activities for falsifying the registration survey results, and on · the student body for its utter lack of concern. All of the in- . consistencies which have been covered in the above article have been explained away by the words of Ms. Dwoskin and Ms. Hurley. It can be concluded that the cancellation has been a joint effort. Winter Carnival has been canceiled because of student apathy and a sometimes maddening bureaucracy compounded by the inability of the Social Committee to pull the event together and overcome the obstacles presented to them. By D. BOOTH Athletes and those who in- dulge in athletics know that one of the real pleasures of life is climbing into a nice hot shower and washing away the sweat and grime of victory. They also know that another delightfully relaxing activity is to walk into a sauna, a facility which Union has not seen ·fit to supply to its students. However, indulging in a sauna is not beyond the ingenious student. Yes, you too can build a sauna in your very own room. The basic ingredient for a sauna is steam, and all students, par- -ticularly those of the dorms classified as non-cooking know that a hot pot will produce steam. Next, a steam room must be constructed. This can be done by creating a tent of sheets. At lour corners chairs are stacked to a reasonable height, or wooden poles are set to drape the .sheets over. A sheet should also be spread across the floor to protect the carpet from saturation. Sheets will not hold in all the steam, however, they will hold in enough for general sauna purposes. In the center of this tent should be set four to six hot pots, lids off and boiling full speed. For those who would like to spice up their sauna a bit, there are several aromatic herbs which' will serve. A few ounces of rosemary leaves boiled in the water produces some very pleasant vapors. Rosemary vapors are used to cure skin problems, and are also helpful for increasing blood circulation and metabolism rate. It is also rumored to increase sexual activity. Despite this fact, my favorite variation is the most intriguing Finnish version. Besides put- ting water in the hot pot, add vodka in a 3: 1 ratio. At this point, as I don't wish to be responsible for your life, I must caution not to ,pour straight vodka into a hot pot. Please mix with water. As the liquids mix and form steam there is a most peculiar sensation. One first feels a prickling of the skin, then there is a light-headed feeling. Suddenly one is freed, let loose into the reahns, of Moo. 41~~ , 1115 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY PHONE 377-2642 or 382-8684 fancy, borne upwards in a cloud of vodka steam. This is far more potent than drinking vodka, for it is infiltrating all of one's pores, saturating one's body with transcendental steam. When this sauna has made you feel good. the Finnish custom demands that while you can still navigate you must race outside and roll in the snow. The purpose of this sauna is basically one of cleansing. The steam induces sweating and the heat forces the pores open. Dirt particles are loosened and washed a'Way by the moisture. The cold plunge, or, as in the Finnish case, a roll in the snow, closes the cleansed pores, leaving one with a sparkling invigorating feeling. If you are going to throw a sauna party for your friends, the · proper drinks are ones which consist of fruit juices. Cold frothy beers are also quite good. The Slow Comfortable Screw, a drink consisting of vodka, Southern Comfort, sloe gin, and orange juice and garnished with a cherry and a · piece of parsley, is excellent in the sauna. Since the drinks will eventually be perspired out of the body, one can have as many up against the wall as one likes. Another drink, one of my own concoctions, is also quite nice in a sauna. It is a punch made with equal parts pineapple juice and orange juice, a cup of sugar water, two cups of cold tea, a touch of cinnamon, and whisky to taste. The proper dress for at- tending a sa una is, naturally, a towel. Anything more would serve to exhibit undue modesty. Of course, a towel can be draped as modestly or provocatively as your persona requires. The most provocative towel position is a diagonal one, for this serves to draw the eye from a totally covered part of the body to increasing nudity. On women, the towel should start at the shoulder on one side and slope down towards the, ahem, other side. The final part of the sauna treatment is a rubdown with baby powder or any of the various scented powders and then bed, naturally. And in my opinion, a thoroughly perfect end of a wipter's day. Homestyle Italian Cooking Salad Bar Included with All Pasta & All Dinners Reasonable prices Plus a 1 0% Discount to Union College Students with IDs Banquet Facilities

Page 10 OONOORDIENSIS, February 5, .1981 - ' c ~sst.te BULLETIN BOARD The Union College Men's Glee Club and The Wheaton Glee Club will be performing in Memorial Chapel at 3:00 p.m. Sunday, Feb. la. Tickets are $4;00 for the general .public, $2;50 for students and senior citizens and Free with a Union I.D. On Feb. 13, 14, and 15 WRUC will be airing Valentine Dedications. If you wisll to dedicate a song or message to your friend or sweetheart, you may call WRUC at 6151. Dedications Will be aired on those three days. Feb. 20 at 10:00 p.m. Applications for the Orien- tation Committee are now available in the Student Activities office. The deadline has been extended past the previous date of Feb. 6. Campus Ministry Mass: Feb. 8: Rev. Robert Nugent. The French Lunch Table will again meet this Tuesday in the Pub. Be a part of this popular and ever-growing way to practice your French speaking skills. Wine will be provided as usual Office and are Due February 28. If you are planning a Spring Term Abroad and would like to be an R.A. next year, make all arrangements now. · Also If you know of someone on a Winter Term Abroad who has expressed an interest in being an R.A., .pick up an ap- plication for him-her. Appli~ations are now available to students of all . majors for ENV,IRONMENTAL INTERNSHIPS in the Nor- theast and Great Lakes. Con- . tact Pat Matteo at the Career Center. SALES POSITIONS WITH women are requested to in- terview for exclusive territories in Rochester, Syracuse, Springfield, Mass. areas and possibly Long Island and .more Southerly Parts. This is a professional white-collar Sales Position. Please call David Druschel Union 1974 on 370-5932 ' if you are interested. Come to Delta Upsilons and annual \BE BOLD\ Party on R.A. Applications are EDUCATIONAL FUNDING, SCHENECTADY SAVINGS BANK: If there are any students interested in banking, do not hesitate to call Homer B. Lang,. Ass't Vice President (518) 370-8400 fot an ap- pointment. They currently employ a large number of college students as part time tellers. Available in the Residence Life . INC. Athletic-oriented men and 4rt4 calen~r ' RECRUITING: The following are more additions to your recruting schedule: Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Kamjr Corp., New York Life Ins. Co. Please check the Placement Office for further information. FILM February 6 - FUm For Tots are shown at 10:30 a.m. in the John A. Howe Branch Library, Schuyler and Broad Streets and at 10:30 a.m. in the Pine Hills Branch Library, 1000 Madison Avenue. Afterschool Films are shown at 3 p.m. in the John A. Howe Branch Library, Schuyler -and Braes Streets, at 3:30p.m. in the Pine Hills Branch Library, 1000 Madison Ave. Feb. 7 - Albany Public Library presents the Family Folm: Street of the Flower Boxes which begins at 1 p.m. in the New Scotland Branch Library, 369 New Scotland Ave. Feb. 9 - Russell Sage College presents the film ''Hardcore'' with George C. Scott at 7 and 9:30 p.m. at Schacht Fine Arts Center. For more information call 270-2344. \ Feb. 10 - The Junior College of Albany will present the film, The Fiendish Plot of Dr. Fu Manchu at 11:15 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. in the Student Center. For more information, call 270-2344. Feb. 10 - The Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller Empire State Plaza will present the next series of films in their Film Series about Art as Art. The films shown will ,be Kadinsky, Malevitch, the Bauchaus, and How Death Came to the Earth. They will be shown at 12: tO p.m. in the Recital Hall of the Plaza. LECTURE Feb. 10 - Dr. William F. Kakl, President of Russell Sage College and Dr. Vincent O'Leary, President of SUNY will present a lecture entitled, \The Failure of Public Education.\ The lecture will be held at 7:30 p.m. at the Kellas Formal Lounge of Russell Sage college. For more information, call 270-2344.- Feb. 11 -Matthew H. Elbow, will present a lecture entitled From Cairo to Kabul: Oil, Islam, Israel, and Instability. The lecture will be held at 12 p.m. in the Albany Public Library, 161 Washington Avenue. For more information, call 449-3380. Dutch Hollow Pub Weekend Specials Beef & Brew : 5:00-7:00 Friday & Saturday Free Pitcher of Beer or Carafe of Wine and Salad Bar with each meal Happy Hours:. 8:30-1 0:30 Friday: Pabst Beer 30c a glass All house Tonic Drinks 85c Saturday: Pabst Beer 30c a glass All house Sour Drinks 85c Have a good time and a good dinner in the Pub! MUSIC Feb. 6-8 - Dennis and Lori Cox, two old friends from Nova Scotia with songs from Cape Breton, The Maritimes, and Prince Edward Island w:m be performing at the Caffe Lena, 45 Phila Street, .Saratoga Springs. For more information call, 584-9789. Feb. 12 - The Junior College of Albany will present Rev. Tom Winslow who' will perform Gospel-Blues and Folk Music. The event will take place at 11 a.m. at the Student Center. For more information, call 270-2344. 464 State St. we deliver When the sun goes down, Domino's Pizza gets busy preparing the most convenient fast food Y.OU can get. Just pick up your phone, dial the number, and a Domino's pizzais only 30 minutes away. That's all it takes, and we never charge for delivery. Give us a call. Domino's Pizza will make your Late Night ... Special. Our drivers carry less than $10.00. Limited delivery area \1980 Domino's Pizza, Inc. Tasty, Quick and Hot Pizza Part-tbne position: We have a 10-12 hou.-s per week part-time position avai:la'ble (hours flexi'ble) with a technical background. Please stop by the Placement Office for further information. This position is with the Purchasing Depart- ment. Student would buy raw materials,. steel, copper, etc. for mfg. of motors, which involves phone contact with vendors. 'Fairchild Camera & lnstmmen:t-8ub Assembly Test Systems Group. Ifthere are any Electrical Engineers or Computer Science Majors (Juniors) (Sophomores) are interested in summer em- ployment with Fairchild, please stop by Placement and sign up. Physics Department Notice: Recommendations relating to the third-year evaluation for Dr. Jay Newman of the Physics Department are now being accepted. Schenectady 374-1888 s .---:,;·· jj ' ~ Q; \ c ... I!> ..J I]) > I]) Vi >- ..Cl 0 0 .c; a. Sheil A1 Chr selecb theW the n forma Cadet: backsl addin~ the fiv holds. indivi< the w relay· Chris \

is & or m- to ics a; c .. llJ ..J QJ > QJ iii >- .0 0 .... 0 .s: 0. sports Shei Ia 0' Donnell OONOORDIENSIS, February 5, 1981 Page 11 Sheila Q'.DonneH Four Sheila O'Donnell is a dedicated and talented athlete. She is also a dedicated and talented student who has aspirations of one day becoming a lawyer. Sheila O'Donnell is exactly the type of student- athlete that an institution such as Union College is in searc:h of. \In a Division III school such as Union, the term 'student- athlete' has a very significant meaning,\ explains Director of Athletics Richard S. Sakala. \We do not give scholarships to athletes and athletics alone will not get a young man or women through the admission office here. A person wishing to participate on an athletic team does so voluntarily with the knowledge that his or her academics must come first.\ O'Donnell, a political science major, will graduate this June. Currently her four-year cumulative average is 3.2, a Year Star remarkable standard when you consider that she has been a starter on the volleyball team (during the fall tenn), the basketball team (during the winter term) and the softball team (during the spring term) in each of her four years at Union. Included with her athletics and fine academic standing, O'Donnellwas a member of the Northeastern New York Youth Orchestra as a violin player and is on the Executive Board of the Delta Gamma Sorority. In addition, she has maintained a grant-in-aid job over the four years that requires her to work in· various college offices for eight hours a week. fields.'' Union, which became co- educational in 1970, began its women's intercollegiate program ,in 1975·. According to coach Lynn Barta, Sheila has been instrumental to the suc- cess of women's athletics here. \Sheila has done a lot for women's athletics,\ Barta said. \She is a leadeF and organizer and she makes her teammates push themselves. Sheila leads by example,\ Barta continued. \She has a good attitude and always gives more than 100 percent. Sheila doesn'tget down on herself or her teammates following a loss, but rather realizes her mistakes and tries to improve on them for the next time. She also has a good sense of humor and is very easy to talk to and to coach.\ Athlete of the W eekj,~ O'Donnell, a 1977 .graduate of Guilderland High School where she was a four-year member of the soccer, basketball and volleyball teams and a two-year member of the softball and tennis teams. Her 92 high school average helped her to be ac- cepted at Princeton, Boston College, Smith College and State Universities at Albany, Buffalo,. and Binghamton as well as Union. In her four years at Union, O'Donnell has been the basketball team's top scorer in each of her first three seasons and was named the team's Most Valuable Player twice. She was also three-year captain of the cage squad. Despite the rigid academic structure and the constant demands ori her time, O'Donnell says that she is glad that she chose Union. Chris Meyer has been selected as the Miller Athlete of the Week. This selection is on the merits of his fine per· formance against the Norwich Cadets. Chris won the 20()..yard backstroke in a time of 2:09.9 adding another pool record to the five pool records he already holds. He also won the 200-yards individual medley and was on the winning 400-yards medley relay team. Chris Meyer Chris is a junior engineering student who holds three 'letters for swimming. He attended Balwin High School on Long Island and now resides both in Long Island and in Tucson, Arizonia. Chris is also a- member at the Phi Delta Theta fraternity. This is the third time he has been named as the winner of the prestigious Miller Athlete of the Week Award. Doing a major part of the scoring for the Dutchmen is SPORTS HAPPENINGS Feb. 5-Feb. 22 Varsity Basketball Feb. Sat Hamilton Feb. 7 & 8 Elmira Tournament at Elmira Feb. 11 at Hartwick J.V. Basketball Feb. Sat Hamilton Feb. 10 at St: Ros~ Feb. 12 Skidmor~ Varsity Hockey Feb. 5 at Holy Cross Feb. 7 Colgate Feb. 10 Williams J. V. Hockey Feb. 7 Kimball~ Union Acader:ny Varsity Wrestling Feb. 7 at Nor:11.11Ch Varsity Swimming Feb. 7 Hamilton Feb. 11 R.P.I. Women's Basketball Feb. 6 at New Paltz Feb. 9 at AI bany Feb. 11 Russell Sage nothing new for Chris. He· has won a race in every meet he has been in except one. Swim team coach, Bob Magee says, \Chris must be counted on for points if Union is to do well.\ He con- tinues praising his junior standout, ''He is a good leader and a good athlete.\ The records which Chris now holds are the 200-yard freestyle, the 200-yard individual medley, the 20()..yard backstroke, the 100-yard backstroke, and the Foote Memorial Pool record in the 200-yard backstroke. Good luck to Chris and the rest at the swimming Dutchemn in their continuing season. \I chose Union because they showed a lot of interest in me as an athlete, yet I knew I could receive a highly respected education in my field of in- terest, O'Donnell explained. \The fact that my parents live only 20 minutes away has not hindered my growth. Many people feel that they have to go away to college in order to get away from their parents' in- fluence. I didn't feel the need to go to college in order to grow up; that wasn't my purpose for going to school. There are a lot of advantages to staying close to your roots. I know my way around the area and it gives my parents more of a chance to see me perform on the athletic \If I had it all to do over again, I would definitely choose Union as my college,\ she says. \It is very difficult being a student-athlete here because there isn't a lot of student or community support. It is a personal commitment. There isn't a lot of pressure to succeed in athletics here because the emphasis is on education,\ she observed. \I've found that by being a student-athlete, I've matured a great deal. I've learned how valuable time is and to con- centrate and to use all my time for its best possible purpose.\ W res tiers Struggle The Union wrestling team has proven itself to be a strong competitive squad for the 198().. 81 season. Head wrestling coach, Jon Lovett and assistant coach, Larry D' Agastino stress that the team exhibits a group of young wrestlers who are growing .stronger daily. Therefore, with adequate recruiting methods, added to the talents to the present team, future years should prove to be fruit-full years for the Union College wrestlers. Wrestling this year for Union in the 118 weight class is Jim Edwards from Amsterdam, N.Y., and Richard Budd from Poughkeepsie. In the 126 weight class is wrestler AI Kercado from Amsterdam. In the 134 weight class is the team's co- captain Gary Cohen from the Bronx. Jim Carl from West- field, also wrestles in the 134 weight class. Mark Soloway from Great Neck, NY wrestles at 142· Dough Macfaddin, the team'~ other co-captain from Avon, Conn., \nestles at 150; Scott Buffington from Newton, Mass. wrestles at 158; George Park from Indianapolis, Ind. wrestles at 167; and Dennis Dombrowski from the Bronx wrestles in the 190 weight class. The team has a 1-9 record. The first meet against Oneonta was taken by Oneonta with a 50- 3 score. Albany State conquered Union twice with score$ of 46-4 and 36-18. RPI beat Union twice with scores of 40-18 and 35-21. Union beat Williams with a score of 42-12. At a tri-meet which was held at Amherst, WPI beat Union 44-7 and Amherst also beat Union 39-16. Kings Point beat Union 32-19 while Potsdam also conquered Union with a final score of 42-9. The last two teams Union wrestled against were RPI and Potsdam. At RPI, Jim Edwards won by forfeit, Al Kercado won by 2-0 and Rich Budd lost 21-2. Jim Carl lost by a fall, although Doug Macfaddin won by fall in 27 seconds. Unfortunately, though, Mark Soloway lost by fall in the third period. George Paik also lost by fall, as did Scott Buffington who wrestled in the 179 weight class. On the positive side, Dennis Dom- browski won by fall in 1: 15. The position of the unlimited weight class was lost by Union to RPI due to a forfeit. Recapping the meet against Potsdam: Jim Edwards lost 7 to 3, AI Kercado lost 14 to 4, Jim Carl lost by pin, Mark Soloway lost by pin, Doug Macfaddin won 8 to 3, Scott Buffington lost 18 to 6, George Paik lost by pin, the weight class of 177 was lost by forfeit, Dennis Dombrowski won by pin~ in 3:00 and the unlimited weight class was lost by forfeit. The wrestling team has its strengths, which they will continue to build upon throughout the season. For, as Jim Sutton, a Union alumni wrestling captain and coach, said at the Potsdam meet, \Union is on the up and showing marked improvement, which will benefit the .present season and future season to come.\ The next meet will be this Saturday, Feb. 7, at Norwich, at 1 p.m. The following Wed- nesday, Feb. 17, Union \' wrestlers will challenge Colgate at home at 7 p.m. Maranville Continued from pag-:_ 4 demands placed on someone who is the president of a college of Union's stature, it is obvious President Morris needs a capable assistant like Dr. Maranville. Considering the great importance of Maran- ville's job, one could assume it to be an exciting position. Dr. Maranville agreed by saying, \I have an interesting job because Union is an interesting college.\

Page 12 OONCORDIENSIS, February 5, 1981 ----~~------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------- sports .... cv c ,_ Ql _J Q) > Q) +- V) >- .0 0 ~ 0 -§_ U.R .. Ranked 2nd In Na,tion: Hoopers Upset Rochester Un.ion's varsity basketball team was successful ,jn derailing the number two division III basketball team in the nation Tuesday night, 64-54. Joe Cardany pops jumper The Yellow-jackets of .Rochester had gained the prestigious ranking by rolling to a 16~ 1 record, with their only loss coming to Division I Cor- nell, 64-58. The height advantage of Rochester was neutralized by a patient offense and an aggressive switching defense. Joe Clinton hit a jumper with 10 seconds left in the first half to send Union into the·lockerroom tied at halftime, 26~26. In the second half, Union came out with an alertness that has not accompanied them from the lockerroom since last year. At the 15:40 mark, John Mon- tanHe tipped in a shot to put Union up by four and Joe Cardany followed with a jumper from the corner at 14:39 to put Union on top by six. The Dut- chmen went ahead by eight when John Montanelli hit a short jumper at 14:57. After a Rochester turnover John Krum hit a short jumper at 11:20 to put Union up by 10. The 10-point lead allowed the Garnet to go into a stall with 9:08 remaining. Union hit a couple of back doors and the foul shooting was excellent. But at the other end of the court, Rochester was also having trouble missing. At the 4:38 mark Joe Doctor hit for U.R. to close the gap to five. Union pulled away, as Cardany hit a jumper, Clinton hit two foul shots and Krum hit a foul shot. But a team that is undefeated in Division III play at this point in the season is not about to rollover. With 2:40left, Vinny Lynch hit a free throw to once again close the gap to five. The Yellowjackets would draw no closer, though as Union's tremendous ball handling and foul shooting ability showed through on this night. In the finallO minutes, Union hit 19 of 26 from the foul line with Joe Clinton shooting a perfect 10-10 in that time span. One of the keys to the victory was the Garnet's ability to outrebound a much taller U.R. team by 25 to 21. John Montanlle was very instrumental, hauling in 11 of the 25. expected a long battle but were instead treated to a Union romp. Led .by Joe Cardany's 18 points and the strong inside play at John ''Count\ Montanile (9 rebounds), the Dutchmen blew the game open by halftime. The · final score was 88.;G2, which broke a four-game slide by the Dutchmen. Also starring for the . hoopsters was Mike Canning, who controlled the tempo with five assists. Norwich also came to Schenectady with a tough reputation and an 11·3 record. Once again, the game was out of reach at half time. Joe Cardany again led scorers with 17 points, but the stars ef the game were Joe Clinton and Joe \Windex\ Uvegas. Clinton dominated the tempo at the .game and played his best defense of the season. \Windex\ cleaned the glass for 9 rebounds and added _several tip-ins. The final score was 59- 44. Swimmers Dunked Joe Clinton led the Dutchmen in scoring with 20, Joe Cardany has 14 and John Montanile chipped in with 10. Also this past week the team kept its playoff hopes alive by defeating Hobart and Norwich, both by large margins. Union, seemingly over its slump, will travel to Elmira on Saturday for a two-day tour- nament. Following the tour- nament, the hoopers will play their final home game of the season on Feb. 16 against Albany. It will be a tough game, so a big fan tournout will be needed to spur the Dutchmen Basket balk team in their bid to make the playoffs. By E. RANDY BROWN .. Why would anyone travel to northern Vermont in tbe middle of the winter? To go skiing, right? Wrong. Last Saturday, following a draining bus trip to Vermont, the Union swim team engaged in an exciting battle with the Cadets of Norwich University. Almost every event was a nip-and-tuck affair, and when the dust cleared in time for the final event, the 400- freestyle relay, the two teams were tied at 52-52. Unfor- tunately, though, Norwich's last man touched out Union's anchor and so the relay, and the meet, went to the Cadets. Many strong performances were turned in by the Union merman, though. Chris Howd, displaying a flair for the dramatic, caught up to his man in the last yard of the 20()..yard butterfly and pulled out a victory. Sharon Pearl, in the same event, achieved her fastest time ever, and scored a third place Harry W alkoff, Basketball: granted a reprieve from his usual long distance events, rewarded Coach Magee with a first place finish in the 50-yard freestyle event. Ron Newbold swam two fast 100-yard freestyle legs, and Johanna Briggs won the required portion of the diving. One streak ended at Norwich, and another began. Chris Moyer took firsts in both the 200-meter and the 200- backstroke (setting a Norwich pool record in the process). He failed to false-start in either event, thus ending a three- season span of 24 consecutive meets in which he had false- started at least once. Earlier in the week, Albany State dunked Union 66-29. The less said about the Albany meet, the better, as Union was hampered by the absences of Meyer and Briggs. About the only bright spot was Andy Berquist's winning per- formance in the 1,000 yard freestyle. Union's last home meets of the season are against Women Split The women's basketball team split a pair of games last week, losing at Russell Sage, 80-66, before returning home to defeat New Paltz, 83-39. The win over New Paltz was a big boost for coach Lynne Barta's Dutchwomen as it raised Union's record to 2-4 and enabled all 12 members of the · team to see playing time. All but two players put points on the board while four of the women hit for double figures. Senior captain Sheila O'Donnell led the way with a seven of 12 effort from the field and a total of 15 points, while Jackie Tario and Cay Lynch each chipped in with 13 markers. Natalie Stone meshed 10 points, Julie Miller also had a fine game, as she tallied five points and added to Union's 54 rebounds with eight caroms and four steals. Tario was high in the rebounding department with 12 while Stone added three steals and Cay Lynch three. Against Sage, Lynch led the scoring with 18 points while Carol Wrenn netted 16 and Miller 14 with 13 rebounds. Union will be at New Paltz on Friday night for an 8 p.m. game before traveling to Albany State on the ninth. The Dutchwomen will host the Second Annual Capital District :V Women's Basketball Tour- E nament the weekend of j February 20 and 21. Friday Q) night's opening-round games pit ~ the College of St. Rose against u;_ RPI at 6 p.m. while Union meets ~ Albany State at 8 p.m. Saturday o at 6 the loser's battle for third ~ place with the championship a. scheduled for 8. All games will be at Memorial Field House. Hamilton, Feb. 7, and RPI, Feb. 11. Hamilton is one of. the top teams in the country in Division III. Hobart came to the Memorial Fieldhouse with a reputation of playing tight matches. The few fans who came to the game Skaters Drop Pair The Union hockey team's aspirations of making it to the playoffs this year are slowly fizzling away after the Dut- chmen suffered three con- secutive losses over the past week. On Wednesday the Dutchmen travelled to Middlebury, where they were humiliated 9-2 by a non-playoff contender. The Dutchmen put forth a lackadaisial team ' effort, showing little continuity. Union opened the scoring early in the first period when Tod Fobare fed winger Don B'eall in front of the net, and Beall fired a shot over the Middlebury goalie. After Union's first goal, Mid- dlebury took control, scoring nine consecutive goals, totally dominating the flow of the game. Don Beall finished off Union's scoring thrust in the third period on a solo effort, beating the Middlebury goaltender on a crisp wrist shot. However, Beall's goal was futile as the Dutchmen suffered a 9~2 loss. Joe Caruso lines up shot On Saturday night the Dut- chmen were the guests of the University of Buffalo, with Buffalo edging the dutchmen 6- 4. Buffalo opened up the scoring, catching the Dutchmen off guard and beating goaltender Bart Brooks with five consecutive goals. After Buffalo's outburst, Union took the reigns, dominating all aspects of the game. The Dutch- men put themselves on the scoreboard twice in the later stages of the first period on goals by Kyle Woodman and Billy Wall. Picking up assists on the goals were Brian Shea and Todd (Moose) Fobare respectively. The Dutchmen were opposed by some hot goaltending from the Buffalo netminder, who foiled Union one many scoring attempts. Union finally beat the Buffalo netminder scoring two consecutive goals with credit going to Don Beall and Dave Ferguson. The Dutchmen pulled goalie Bart Brooks in the later stages of the game, but Buffalo scored an empty net goal, to close out the score 6-4 in their favor. On Sunday the Dutchmen travelled to Brockport, where they again suffered a loss. Union opened up the scoring in the first period on a goal by Joe Caruso, only to have Brockport come back with five con- secutive goals. The Dutchmen played shorthanded a con- siderable amount of the time in the penalty-ridden game, preventing them from providing a constant scoring threat. Union finally put themselves on the scoreboard for their second goal when AI Dilebero fed Micky Perras in front of the Brockport goal, and Perras fired a blow hard shot into the net. Union couldn't connect again for a goal and eventually ran out of time, with the 5-2 victory going to Brockport State. The Dutchmen host Division I powerhouse Colgate University Saturday night and would ap· preciate your support. • I(! r:: :.;:: ·.~ jjj i ., I Q) <tJ .!:. I:J ~ >- .c 0 - 0 .s:: a. I (

r but were a Union dany's 18 1side play 1tanile (9 nen blew time. The 12, which de by the ng for the Canning, mpo with ~arne to a tough ·3 record. was out of ~ Cardany 17 points, arne were \Windex\ .nated the nd played 1e season. l glass for :d~several ·e was 59- over its H:hrlira on day tour- the tour- will play ne of the i against 11gb game, 1t will be Dutchmen .1eir bid to mpty net core 6-4 in Dutchmen 1rt, where l a loss. scoring in oal by Joe Brockport rive con- Dutchmen d a con- he time in 1 game, 1 from 1t scoring tally put ;core board 1 when AI Perras in t goal, and hard shot nect again .tually ran 5-2 victory :tate. ; Division I University would ap· . i. Ill r:: :.;;:: LU .., (J) rtl .I:. u ~ >- .D. 0 +- 0 .I:. c. ,, :;. ~ URian students utilizing Achilles Rink during free time. 'A Union of People': II february 12, 1981 Volume 110, Number 114. • Ice-Man ·Cometh By ANDY SOBEL Somewhere west of Delta Phi, south of Memorial Field House, and bordering on that . vast wasteland known as Daley Field, lies the Union College Ice Palace, alias Achilles Rink. Documentary Film • IS Built in 1975 to the tune of $1.7 million, Achilles Rink is open 20 hours a day, seven days a· week, from October to April. D The rink is named for its 0 n e principal financial catalyst, the Reverend H. Laurence Achilles. Rev. Achilles was originally approached by then-college President Harold Martin and the Board of Trustees for funds for a physical activity building, but as his main interest lay in the sport of curling, some gene splicing was performed and voila! an Ice Palace was born. As Achilles Rink ends its for- mative years, it has been estimated worth of $4 million. alternately known as Charlie, or Coach. When Coach Morrison came to Union in the aftermath of the Ned Harkness-Tom Bonner scandal, his job was to resurrect not only the hockey team, hut the rink as well. Coach Morrison had had prior experience in rink management, both at Mount Allison University in New Brunswick, Canada, and at Lake Forest University, in Lake Forest Ill. The first thing he did when he signed on as guardian of the rink was to draw up a list of yearly, monthly,weekly, and daily duties. In addition, ex- plicit and complete emergency procedures were put in writing. When Coach Morrison is on a road trip with the Union varsity hockey team, · or away recruiting, Bob Driscoll, the Assistant Director of Achilles Rink and the Union J .V. Hockey Coach is in charge. Behind Mr. Driscoll are Lynn Fredericks, the Rink Superintendent, and Kathy Natole, the Office Manager. - By JOE MAGUffiE \A Union of People\ is completed. The film, financed by Vice President of Campus Resources Robert Rasmussen's \special program budget\ has been in the making for about nine months. But the finished product Is only 18 minutes long. Fourteen thousand feet of film were taken for the project. All but 630 of these were discarded. Rasmussen spoke with Concordiensis on Tuesday about the fihrl .. He says that his office was not interested in \a special purpose film for recruiting or fund raising.\ Since College is an emotional experience, the movie deals more with the personal aspect of Union College. The movie was produc~d by Tony Stewart, of Seven Seas Cinema. Seven Seas was awarded the contract over eight other cinema vendors. Rasmussen would not disclose the dollar figure of the contract. The Vice President feels part of the reason for the unusual tone of the movie is the meticulous process used to choose the producer. Initially, nine vendors were under consideration. Price considerations and vendor availability eliminated seven of these. Rasmussen stressed that he was interested in getting \good people and trusting their creative enterprise.\ The two candidate producers were invited to visit the campus for a week last spring term. Both had meetings with various campus administrators for several days and then were allowed to roani the campus and talk with whomever they would run into. During the summer, both candidates sent statements of treatment of the film based on their weeks at Union. Copies of the statements were sent to some of the professors and administrators who had spent time with the producers. The overwhebrrlng consensllS gave approval to Stewart, and he was hired. On Monday, in SS016, the film wa:;; shown for any student who had any part in the film. Rasmussen plans to make the fihrl· viewable by any member of the campus community and wants to get \high mileage\ out of the film .. For example, a viewing by the Schenectady Rotary Club has already been scheduled, and Tuesday night at the Holiday Inn on Nott Terrace, a showing of \A Union of People\ helped launch the eleventh · annual business campaign. The campaign is sponsored by local businessmen who support Union College, whether or not they'afe Union alumni. Rasmussen is quick to laud just about everyone involved with the picture. He is par- ticularly' grateful to the members of the Alumni Council for their reactions to the early versions of the fihn. He points out that even in the finished ·version, there 'Yill be people who will perceive gaps in the film. Rasmussen empathises with these views, but points out that if all facets of life at Union were portrayed, he would have \a nine-hour movie.\ Rasmussen is not the only man proud of the movie. Tony Stewart is also proud. Seven Seas Cinema wants to show the film to prospective clients as an example of their work. According to Rasmussen, they are also considering entering the film in a competition against other college documentaries. To preserve the mood of the fihrl, however, Rasmussen will insist that the vendor use \no exerption.\ If Seven. Seas wants to show it, they must show the Student Forum : whole thing. Naturally Rasmussen would ask for this. The greater number of people who see the movie, the better for Union. But the film will have a more profound effect on those viewers who are already familiar with the College, ac- cording to Rasmussen. \The movie will remind our com- munity of why they should be proud of their College.\ The Big Man at Achilles Rink is clearly Charles Morrison, Author of Ball Four: Bouton to Speak Sportscaster, author and former major league pitcher Jim Bouton will speak at Memorial Chapel Monday, Feb. 16, at 8 p.m. Sponsored by the Speaker's Forum, admission is $1.50 at the door. Bouton, 37, is the author of Ball Four, a risque diary he kept about his escapades during the 1969 baseball season. On the New York Times best seller list for 17 weeks, the book sold some 200,000 hardcover copies. It also received generally favorable literary reviews, incluQing one in Life magazine that found it \not only the best and funniest account of that strange gypsy caravan known as a ball team, but a serious moral investigation of the profession, a distant cousin of From Here to Eternity.\ Even before he wrote Ball Four, Bouton had a reputation as an outspoken ball player, \willing to share his ob- servations\ a:nd \not afraid to reveal the group dynamics of the clubho11Se.\ Tributes Senior During his first three major league seasons, Bouton also achieved stardom as a pitcher for the New York Yankees. He posted 21-7 and 18-13 records during the 1963 and 1964 seasons, while the Yankees won the pennant, and he won an additional two games in the 1964 World Series. By NAOMI BLANK The Student ·Forwn, during its Monday meeting, discussed the upcoming alcohol survey that will be distributed to Union College students. The primary purpose of the survey is \to gather in- formation about the drirlkiilg habits of Union College students,\ explained Vern Wetmore, senior class representative .of the Student Affairs Council.(SAC), which is distributing the survey. Students should not expect a \crackdown\ on alcohol con- sumption as a result of the survey. Non-ale oholic beverages served at fraternity parties as well as food are some topics about which student input is needed. Information is to be given to RA's regarding han- dling surveys and reactions. The Forum also discussed the Women's Network's desire for an expansion of health services. The Women's Network is requesting a gynocologist be added to the Union medical staff. More information is to be provided at the SAC's Feb. 18 meeting. Recognition for Joe Cardany is also an interest of the Student Forum. Joe, who is to become Union's all-time leading basketball scorer, is to be honored in a short ceremony preceding the Albany State game next Monday, Feb. 16. The Forum is awarding two kegs, one each to the loudest and most populated (and the second loudest and most populated) cheering sections at the game. Student Forum President Dave O'Connor explained that \what the Forum is trying to say is the nicest thing we can do for Joe is just to get a lot of people to attend his last home game.\ The Forum also allocated money to the Intellectual Cabaret, with the realization that the budget may be frozen if necessary. No guarantee for the activity's existence next year was made. But after that year, Bouton's success on the mound declined dramatically. After shuttling between the major and minor leagues, he retired from the game in 1970 . Riding the notoriety he had gained from Ball Four, Bouton then became a sportscaster for W ABC-TV in New York City, where, as in · his book, he displayed a nonchalance and enthusiasm over a polished performance. His longing for baseball did not diminish, however, and Bouton returned to organized ball in 1978 with the minor league Savannah Braves, compiling a 12-9 record. At the end of the season, he was called up to the parent Atlanta Braves, where he defeated the San Francisco Giants in one of his appearances. After the season, he once again retired from baseball and has subsequently resumed sportscasting in New York City, with WCBS-TV. When Coach Morrison was asked \What do you do as manager of Achilles Rink?\ he replied with a vague \I do what has to be done.\ It is clear, however, that Coach Morrison's main duty as Rink Manager is to make the rink self-sufficient. He works no set hours, but more often than not, he will put in a solid 13-hour day, in this effort. The rink is currently not sup- porting itself, but, as Coach Morrison said, \very few rinks are.\ Richard S. Sakala, the Union College Athletic Director, notes the presence and competition of Schenectady's Center City Ice Rink, but is proud to say that \Union has not suffered any detrimental effect from Center City, as we had our best year in the Rink's history last year.\ Mr. Sakala also feels that for the Rink to become self- sufficient, one of two things must occur: the income must be ''hockey-team generated'' (meaning full houses nightly), or more ice time must be sold to groups that use the rink now and would like more ice time, such as the Schenectady Youth Hockey Association, or the Mohawk Men's Club. Mr. Sakala adds, with much emphasis, that the \35 hours of ice time given free, that is to say not generating income, each week to the Union College community, will not be eliminated.\ It is interesting to note, however, that the Feb. 11 puck shooting session was cancelled so that the Dartmouth College varsity hockey team could practice on their way west from a game with RPI. Mr. Sakala also said that while there is \no pressure to balancr the rink's $220,000 yearly budget, it is a matter of pride and there are high hopes for the future.\ Coach Morrison also has high hopes for the future. When he was asked, \Are you satisfied with what you've done as manager of Achilles Rink!\ the coach replied \You should never be satisfied. We can all improve. Anytime you are satisfied, you stagnate, and you're gone. Finished.\ ..

Page 2 Editorial: SportingV alentine This winter hasn't been the best of times for Union· sports teams. One only has to recall the ''winless weekend\ of Jan. 24 and 25, wben varsity tea·ms posted an aggregate 0-5 record, to get an idea of the hard times on Which these teams have fallen. Happily, this situation has, to an extent, improved. The men's varsity basketball team, in particular, has put together several impressive showblgs, including last Tuesday night's 64-54 thumping of Division IJI opponent Rochester., which had be en ranked second in the nation coming into the game. It would be ideal if every Unien athletic team was consistently this successful. But since the College has never passed itself off as a Big Ten-style sports factory--and, indeed, would probably be highlY wt- comfortable in such a role--this isn't the idea of in- tercollegiate athletics here. Rather, the key element is participation. And we'll take this opportunity to acknowledge those students who are so involved this winter. More than simply taking note, we'd hope that an appropriate number of students would also do the same--particularly be attending some lntercaUegiate sports contests. So far this season, this usually hasn't been the case. The stands at Achilles Rink. for last Saturday night's hockey game, for instance, couldn't have been much more than half filled. Granted, it was a chnly night, but that hardly seems to bave been sufficient reason for what was no more than a paltry student turnout. Whether these teams win or not {and the hockey team bowed, 6-1, to Division I C()lgate Saturday), the men and women wearing Union jerseys are the peers and friends of. those watching. Once students leave here, it's unlikely they'll have .the same relationship with the players they watch perform. This alone should be reason enough to check out a few games. They're usually exciting, and, as many a sports story in these pages has c<mcluded, \The team would appreciate your support.\ That admonition holds eq1.1ally true for this newspaper. Watch a Union athletic contest this week. Ten different events are scheduled. Playing their last home games of the season will be the varsity and JV basketball teams, the varsity and. JV hockey squads, as well as the varsity wrestling team. With Valentine's Day falling this Saturday, sizable student attendance would be an appropriate gift. Team members would have to love you for it, and a College athletic contest isn't a 'bad place to take the person to whom you sent a Vale11.tine'sDay card. Concordiensis Needs Staff Contact Julie 6577 or come up to the office in Carnegie on Tues. night. Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editors Arts Editors Photo Editor Sports Editors Sports Photo Editor Layout Editor Business Manager Subscriptions Editor Calendar Editor Staff Photo Staff Calligraphy Jim Davis, Julie Isgro Paul Grossman Joe Maguire Naomi Blank Judi Chervenak, D. Booth Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Richard A. Sher Eill Curtin, Jay McDermott Steve Lerner Rachel I. Mandel Jeff Scardino Ellen Berger Maria Manfredo11ia MiDdy Broser, Claire Burchill, Charis Richards Kent Avery, Mindy Br<>ser, Charis Richards,. Michael J. Elkins Claire Burchill CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by ,tbe·· student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectfldy·, Ne.w York 12308; PublicatiollS Office: Susquehmn.a Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York ~8 (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Sc-benectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate:· 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. shows of J' .. §:r(~=~:=~~} few 4md f hope prese·.. · .· ~· ., aotadents;·facm .. mem ··.·. ts~'.an adminbt~J' ~'!!·. ,is.. \~\*: Ol\'1.. . Perspectives: portUJlitt, aild de.stre\ to sb(}\Y their· support .lor the. College. Fan suppoi't · at all. :: Utli()n Take a Winter Break athleti~,~entsr ·ll .. this feat: r ·. e· · . . .. By A.J. BRODSKY UnN>n~bAfi1 ··~tate basketball g~ g~:V:es··us,a•gl;lod,'.()bmfee to The purpose of my column is llurn this'.attitnue(~~m··. . to shed some light on campus Notbing.oouJ.dmean: mope i;(k.. problems. This idea is certainly the Union basketball teatn~ -and not original, but my approach is espeeia . ··~tl ·tbvQI.' ;ior.s, . · a little different. I want the ·. . ,. on readers of this paper to supply 'tbe1)t'{)C.S'S, me with ideas, whether per- 1 yow:mt~Y:~1Vett'tl2~\te•1i/~~oodtimer sonal or general campus moans and groan's. Just let me know what's bothering you, by a note to our Carnegie Hall office or by seeing me in person, and I will research your ideas and present them to the campus. My per- sonal desire is for objective journalism, but if this column seems slanted and opinionated, it is a result of my personal choice of topic material and does not reflect any of this newspaper's official positions. For example, a topic that is explored every year by the administration is that of the \split three\ school year. In non-administrative language, this means moving the fall term's beginning up several days, having a vacation in the middle of winter term, and finishing school in May. This offers several advantages for students. First, our vacations would coincide with our friends. Secondly, summer jobs could be found earlier and one could start )VOrk earlier. The opposing arguments to this plan were presented to me by Calvin G. Schmidt, the RegistrarforUnion. First, work such .as term papers would be assigned over the winter term recess. Secondly, Mr. Schmidt said that under the existing system, we are able to work longer over the swruner break. Furthermore, to quote Mr. Sch- midt, \The faculty says there is no point; extra time off would raise havoc.\ In the past, the proposal has been brought up in a student government·meeting, but the final decision is always · made by the Academic Affairs Council with the cooperation of the faculty. The only input by students, as Mr. Schmidt pointed out to me, is to suggest the proposal. From that point on, \the only student impact would be a lobbying effort to convince the faculty.'' My concerns, in researching this proposal, are twofold. First, I want to see what the general opinion of the students is about this proposal. Second, what are your feelings about the way this matter is decided? Please give me a little feedback on these ideas, so I may present them in a future column. Not only do I want to explore such ideas in future columns, but I will be glad to give ex- planations for any present mysteries. Such a mystery is that infamous plague that has hit Schenectady, brown water. The source of the creeping brown sludge that has infested our pipes lies deep in the city's water system. David Wood, Director of Residence Life, tens me that the most recent problem was· caused by a broken water pump. When the pump was repaired downtown, the sudden pressure in the pipe stirred up deposits of rust, organic matter, etc. J. Richard Mills, Director of Physical Plant Operations, was kind enough to show me the inside of a water main. Not since freshman year at the West College Dining Hall have I been so repulsed. It seems rust and grime line the inside of water pipes because usual flow only- takes up half the piple. A similar problem occurs yearly when all the fire hydrants are flushed out by the city. Mr. Mills says the water is safe to drink, but the general sentiment of everyone is reflected in his comment that \I wouldn't advise you to drink it.\ Further comments can be directed to the Water Depart- ment for the City of Schenec· tady, and I just happen to have their phone number handy: 382- 5023. IF II 1 (Cl Bal Be( ye:: hel Col cot: COl bal ca~ wil fra rer P. COI Ac· Ast be SUC del eff Op( str M<

Page 2 CONOORDIENSIS, February 1ft, 1981 Editorial: SportingV a len tine This winter hasn't been the best of times for Union- sports teams. One only has to recall the ''winless weekend\ of Jan. 24 and 25, when varsity teams posted an aggregate 0-5 record, to get an idea of the hard times on which these teams have fallen. Happily, this situation has, to an extent, improved. The men's varsity basketball team, in particular, has put together several impressive showings, including last Tuesday night's 64-54 thumping of Division III opponent Rochester, which had been ranked second in the nation coming into the game. It would be ideal if every Union athletic team was consistently this successful. But since the College has never passed itself off as a Big Ten-style sports factory--and, indeed, would probably be highly un- comfortable in such a role--this isn't the idea of in- tercollegiate athletics here. Rather, the key element is participation. And we'll take this opportunity to acknowledge those students who are so involved this winter. More than simply taking note, we'd hope that an appropriate number of students would also do the same--particularly be attending some intercollegiate sports contests. So far this season, this usually hasn't been the case. The stands at Achilles Rink for last Saturday night's hockey game, for instance, couldn't have been much more than half filled. Granted, it was a chilly night, but that hardly seems to have been sufficient reason for what was no more than a paltry student turnout. Whether these teams win or not (and the hockey team bowed, 6-1, to Division I Colgate Saturday), the men and women wearing Union jerseys are the peers and friends of those watching. Once students leave here, it's unlikely they'll have the same relationship with the players they watch perform. This alone should be reason enough to check out a few games. They're usually exciting, and, as many a sports story in these pages has concluded, ''The team would appreciate your support.\ That admonition holds equally true for this newspaper. Watch a Union athletic contest this week. Ten different events are scheduled. Playing their last home games of the season will be the varsity and JV basketball teams, the varsity and JV hockey squads, as well as the varsity wrestling team. With Valentine's Day falling this Saturday, sizable student attendance would be an appropriate gift. Team members would have to love you for it, and a College athletic contest isn't a bad place to take the person to whom you sent a Valentine's Day card. Concordiensis Needs Staff Contact Julie 6577 or come up to the office in Carnegie on Tues. night. Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editors Arts Editors Photo Editor Sports Editors Sports Photo Editor Layout Editor Business Manager Subscriptions Editor Calendar Editor Staff Photo Staff Calligraphy Jim Davis, Julie Isgro Paul Grossman Joe Maguire Naomi Blank Judi Chervenak, D. Booth Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Richard A. Sher Bill Curtin, Jay McDennott Steve Lerner Rachel!. Mandel Jeff Scardino Ellen Berger Maria Manfredonia Mindy Broser, Claire Burchill, Charis Richardf Kent A very, Mindv Broser, Charis Richards, Michael J. Elkins Claire Burchill CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by .the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady·, Ne.w York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate:· 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. ------Letters-. ·-- - Forum Sponsors Cardany Day To the Editors: The Student Forum, in eon .. junction with several nth«\ groul)s on campus has proclaimed next Monday, Feb. 16~ as \Joe Cardany Day.'t Previous to this dat{1, Joe Will have ~ome Union basket- ball's all-time leading scorer; however, the 16th will mark J<Je's final home game as a Union player. The forum felt that his cf)ntributlotl$ to the. College, both on and off the basketball court; warranted at least some form of recognition and thanks. It should be easUy un .. derstood, considering the limited resources at our disposal, that this day of recognition will lack sui).. stantially in magnitude to that of, for instance. \Hank Aaron Day\ in Atlanta. So, f()rget about the parades and speeches. Feb. 16 will >not· have much pomp, but a lot of wtdt has gone into making this final home game something spedal for Joe, John Krum and Mike Canning (the two other graduating seniors), the entire basketball team, and the College community. It is my opinion that most _ Union students are proud of their College; butt large~ v-ocal shows of scllool spirit ar~ very few and far between. What I · hope this flnal home game presents to everyone~ .. all students, faculty memberst and administrators~- is an op- portunity, and desire, to sbow . their support for the College. Fan support at all Union athletic events has been poor this year. I believe that the Union-Albany State .basketball game gives us a good chanci3 to turn this attitude around. Nothing could mean more to the Union basketball team~ and . especially the three seniors, than having your support on Monday night. In the process, you may even have a goootime, or worthwhile study break, yourself. Dave O'Connor, '81 Student Forum President Student·Ath lete Replies To the Editors: In response to the Jan .. 29 letter entitled, \Pull the aug Over,\ I have a few suggestions. As the writer pQinted out, perhaps carpets could · be rented like refrigerators. Additionally, maybe individuals could pur- chase secondhand carpets, with their hard earned money from work study programs, at thrift stores, the Salvation Army; the City Mission> or garage sales, where they are <Jffered at reasonable prices. Perhaps a friend or relative has a carpet that theY no longer use, which you could get for FREE I If none of these suggestions are tenable, one could buy rem- . nants and piece them together l Furthermore, if you were fortunate enough to have • purchased a carpet at the beginning of the year, attempt to sen it at the end. Students on and off campus are·' usually looking for good buys! If you do not want to Hsplit\ the carpet at tbe end .of the year, atteJJ1pt to buy. _your rootnn'late's ~.)f o. r le. t her~him buy your ha , . If the proolcem of st · ari~$' ask a fn\te · . ... w~s¢ !louse 1$ of$11 . . cti . . . .. ·. Ut an d~U$ apa$ienll to ste>re it tl\ere. Ask at tbe Residence Life office, if there is storage space available on campus. No need to lug a carpet home en Continental Trailways! Finally; in regard to the comment implying that \football atbletesn are not \real students/' 1 would like to know on what grounds does the writer base such a· statement? Athletes take the same courses, ·have the same requirements, and are subject to the same rules and regulations as the \real students.\ Could it be that for the past four years 1 have: \ been toole4.inwbeliemgthat I was foll-owing the ··same curriculum as the \real students.» It is · true tbat the Union College ~ustees voted to utilize its funds for astroturf, but is is of primary importance to remember that the faclllty will not solely be used by the \football athletes/' The other benefactors of the project will inelude INTRAMURAL SPORTS~ Women's Field Boekey, Women~s Soccer, Men,.s and Women's Lacrosse 1 baseball, softball, and the facility will allow for various events which will indirectly be profitable~ Perhaps the writer of that article should become acquainted with the REAL issues, and \pull tbe r11g from over their eyes!\ Henry L. Wright \Real Student., and ''Football Athlete'' Classof'81 Perspectives: · D .. U. B&nefit AnnolJnced Dear Editors: During the week of Feb. 16. the Brothers of Delta Upsilon will be working to raise funds. for the Red Cross's Disaster Relief !Tf)gram. All through the week we will be campaigning, door to door tlvoughout the dorms, asking for donations to support this most worthy cause. There will also be a brother statinned in Carnegie thr4>ughouHihe d~y. Your aiding us in this beneficial cause will be. greatly ap!)l'eciated. Thank y~u. The Brothers ofDelta Upsilon leiters .. f,oJicy . Coneordieasis welc()mes letters tt()m allmembers of the . campus community. They can be delivered ttl the newspaper ()ffice,. on the fourth floor of Carnegie Flall.. If JJ() one is in the office, tbe letter can he slipped undet' the door and will be directed to the editors. .All letters ml\st be signed, typed ano include the sender's telephone number, so that tneir validity can be verified. Take a Winter Break By A.J. BRODSKY The purpose of my column is to shed some light on campus problems. This idea is certainly not original, but my approach is a little different. I want the readers of this paper to supply me with ideas, whether per- sonal or general campus moans and groan's. Just let me know what's bothering you, by a note to our Carnegie Hall office or by seeing me in person, and I will research your ideas and present them to the campus. My per- sonal desire is for objective journalism, but if this column seems slanted and opinionated, it is a result of my personal choice of topic material and does not reflect any of this newspaper's official positions. For example, a topic that is explored every year by the administration is that of the \split three\ school year. In non~administrative language, this means moving the fall term's beginning up several days, having a vacation in the middle of winter term, and finishing school in May. This offers several advantages for students. First, our vacations would coincide with our friends. Secondly, summer jobs could be found earlier and one could start work earlier. The opposing arguments to this plan were presented to me by Calvin G. Schmidt, the Registrar for Union. First, worlt such as term papers would be assigned over the winter term recess. Secondly, Mr. Schmidt said that under the existing system, we are able to work longer over the summer break. Furthermore, to quote Mr. Sch· midt, \The faculty says there is no point; extra time off would raise havoc.\ In the past, the proposal bas been brought up in a student government meeting, but the final decision is always made by the Academic Affairs Council with the cooperation of the faculty. The only input by students, as Mr. Schmidt pointed out to me, is to suggest the proposal. From that point on, \the only student impact would be a lobbying effort to convince the faculty.\ My concerns, in researching this proposal, are twofold. First, I want to see what the general opinion of the students is about this proposal. Second, what are your feelings about the way this matter is decided? Please give me a little feedback on these ideas, so I may present them in a future colwnn. Not only do I want to explore such ideas in future colwnns, but I will be glad to give ex- planations for any present mysteries. Such a mystery is that infamous plague that has hit Schenectady, brown water. The source of the creeping brown sludge that has infested our pipes lies deep in the city's water system. David Wood, Director of Residence Life, tells me that the most recent problem was · caused by a broken water pump. When the pump was repaired downtown, the sudden pressure in the pipe stirred up deposits of rust, organic matter, etc. J. Richard Mills, Director of Physical Plant Operations, was kind enough to show me the inside of a water main. Not since freshman year at the West College Dining Hall have I been so repulsed. It seems rust and grime line the inside of water pipes because usual flow only takes up half the piple. A similar problem occurs yearly when all tbe fire hydrants are flushed out by the city. Mr. Mills says the water is safe to drink, but the general sentiment of everyone is reflected in his comment that \I wouldn't advise you to drink it.\ Further comments can be directed to the Water Depart- ment for the City of Schenec- tady, and I just happen to have their phone number handy: 382- 5023. ._ ~~ Jll !E, 0.:: E 1... 0 z >- _:) 0 0 .c a. IF I 'J (C: Ba Be ye: he I Co COl COl ba ca: wi frc: re] i co Ac As be SUI de cfj op Stl :YJ,

as the the ex:- has ping sted ood, a of J. of was the Not been and only· A are er is is \I be have : 382- CONOORDIENS\IS Feb'MUlry 12, 1.981 Page 3 Assodate Dean of Undergraduate Studies: Nelson Appointed By SUSAN BLOOMBERG continue interpret rules to students. Along with this, he will serve on the Academic Affairs Committee and work on the curriculum, in such areas as Liberal Learning and Fresh· man Preceptorials. Any faculty research that he is presently responsible for will be handled oy Dean Kaplan. Alan D. Nelson: one of the two recently appointed Associate Deans of UnderQraduate Studies. Alan 'o. Nelson, who is :presently Associate Dean of Faculty here, has recently been named as one of two Associate Deans of Undergraduate Studies. This new position is one of three, created by Thomas J. D'Andrea, Vice-President of Academic Affairs. The other Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies post has been filled by Willard Roth and tbe position of Associate Dean .of Faculty will be handled by Ilene Kaplan. As a result of these new positions created by D'Andrea, individual duties will be redistributed. According to Dean Nelson, \Vice-President D'Andrea likes the combination of administrator and teacher.'' This idea appeals to Dean Nelson, who was ready himself, to propose that he decrease some of his administrative duties, in order to teach a course. Mter attending Union, Nelson went to graduate school at Northwestern University. He returned to Union as a professor in 1954 and has been in the English Department since that time. As a faculty member at Union College, he has taught a variety of English courses at Union and has served on many committees since his arrival. IFC-PHC Update: IFC· Ball Scheduled Feb.21 After being at Union for more than 26 years, one area that Dean Nelson feels needs to be reevaluated is the advising system. As he stated, ''I have seen nwnerous situations that could have been avoided if the system was used properly.\ It appears to Dean Nelson that the advising system is not used well, by either the faculty or the students. Although he admits that many students are not interested in faculty advice, Nelson believes it would be better if students were more conscious of the academic process and this could be done through an efficient advising The Interfraternity Council ( CIFC) will sporutor its annual Ball, Saturday night, Feb. 21. Because of the success of last year's ball, it is again being held at the Americana Hotel in Colonie. The price is $6 per couple for Greeks, and $10 per couple for independents. The ball will feature live music, a cash bar and free beer. Tickets will be available at each fraternity, through the IFC representative. A series of seminars will be conducted through ~Student Activities. Mike Andolina, Assistant Dean of Students, will be coordinating seminars on such topics as alcohol abuse, debt collection, running a more effective rush, and kitchen operation. Fraternities are strongly encouraged· to attend. More details will be available at ' the next IFC meeti~g. Dean of Students, Robert H. Kellett, in an effort to increase positive publicity for fraternities, would like all houses to submit brief summaries.of chal'itable events which each house has sponsored over the past several years. In sorority news, informal rush for Delta Gamma and Sigma Delta Tau would take place Feb. 19 to 27. All those interested in par- ticipating in informal rush must sign up at the Student Activities Office next Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday. If anyone has any questions concerning rush, she should see Jane Wood in .Student Activities. This rush period is termed informal because its structure is more relaxed than the fall rush's structure. This rush period allows any girl, wh~ther she went through the fall rush Union College Speaker's Forum presents Jim Bouton - former New York Yankee Pitcher - author of the Bestseller Ball Four - CBS Sportscaster Monday, February 16th at 8:00 p.m. Memorial Chapel $1.00 with I.D., $1.50 without +First 25 people to sign up in Student Activities wi II be guests .at the reception. · Rock to A /J. fS's Law & Order Party featuring Dave Shackney & The Korvett~s $1 .00 donation: for the \Law , Order, and Justice Society\ · - Sassoor:1 Stylists - European Highlighting - All Phases of Perm Waving - Cellophane Coloring - Vibrant Hennas - L'Obette Method of Wax Depilatory - Perm Specials 20 Pet. Disceunt · with Bonnie or Robir:1. · 519 Union Street Schene.ctody, N.Y. 12305 (near Union College) 382-7956 15 Pet. Discount to Union Students program or not, to become better acquainted ·with the Union sorority system. Along with infonnal rush plans for the end of this term, the coloriization of Tri Delta was discussed at the last Panhellenic Council meeting, Feb. 5. The council would like to extend a welcome to Tri Delta. The 'addition of Tri Delta as a third sorority on the campus will be an asset to the Panhellenic Council and to the college. Congratulations to Tri Delta's 55 pledges, who will become sisters spring term. ln his present office as Associate Dean of Faculty, which he has held for three years, Nelson has taught one course and will be teaching one in the spring. While a major part of Dean Nelson's job as Associate Dean of Faculty is to interpret ad- ministrative regulations, as Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies he will system. - Letters ·Abort · :Gelebration Tti'tbe~'\Sttldent· BOdy~ .. --- . :~:,._-::,_-·~-I:.:::. \ -. the Women's. Network. Apology Offered In closing,. I want to make it clear that I am not at all anti- 'Women's NetwQrk. Quite the ,opposite is true. I appreciate the need for suclt,an OJtganization, oand ·realize that women .... at T<talltbe~ople:whoattended ,lJnion often face obstacles that the Thursday,, Feb. 5 meeting .men dun't even realize. for the Fall Term Abroad in J!f:lwever, .. as ~n . ~rganma.,ti~n ··- :aermes, Ft:&!lce; .... funded by an stUdents, I hope I am genilin&ly sorry that my thatttre\Women 1 §:;N-I>rk'wll:· sarcasm·· has been miscon .. ·•·; · ''l'e&iaitFiromr:;presenting .OJtty strued~lt1,$H!Gldin Rem1es- but 1!\Wls'%ii'iti··u· ·t:tt': :::·' '·' · ·:llne~s:ideuof;.JStFissuewtbat .i& stl you.:,ean·lumdle< u., .; Lyle invites all you huhgry Union stud~nts to LYLE 1 S· fjiifiii HOAGIES We're open to the wee hours. Let us rnake you one.of our fin~ Submarines. 460 State St. 370-2566 importanLto_.so_~.Jlnjop . •student&. . .S~re);y, .Andy Silbe1~32 .··.': ~.> To the Editor: Campus Ministry Mass Sunday, February 15 Rev. Vi.ncent Ciatoli

of ed be as me, old. the ents the ex- sent is has tells a of J. of was the Not West been and only A are is is \I it.\ n be have 382- I i , I l ! : ' OONOORDIENSIS, February 12, 1981 Page 3 ... ~, _!E, [ E \... 0 z >- .D 0 0 ,.; a. Alan D. Nelson: one of the two recently appointed Associate Deans of Underqraduate Studies. IFC-PHC Update: IFC Ball Scheduled Feb.21 The Interfraternity Council ( CIFC) will sponsor its annuai Ball, Saturday night, Feb. 21. Because of the success of last year's ball, it is again being held at the Americana Hotel in Colonie. The price is $6 per couple for Greeks, and $10 per couple for independents. The ball will feature live music, a cash bar and free beer. Tickets will be available at each fraternity, through the IFC representative. the next IFC meeting. Dean of program or Hot, to become Students, Robert H. Kellett, in better acquainted with the an effort to increase positive Union sorority system. publicity for fraternities, would Along with informal rush like all houses to submit brief plans for the end of this term, summaries of charitable events the colonization of Tri Delta was which each house has sponsored discussed at the last over the past several years. _ Panhellenic Council meeting, In sorority news, informal Feb. 5. The council would like to rush for Delta Gamma and extend a welcome to Tri Delta. Sigma Delta Tau would take The addition of Tri Delta as a place Feb. 19 to 27. third sorority on the campus All those interested in par- will be an asset to the ticipaHng in informal rush must Panhellenic Council and to the sign up at the Student Activities college. Congratulations to Tri Office next Monday, Tuesday or Delta's 55 pledges, who will Wednesday. If anyone has any become sisters spring term. questions concerning rush, she Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies: Nelson Appointed By SUSAN BLOOMBERG Alan 'D. Nelsen, who is presently Associate Dean of Faculty here, has recently been named as one of two Associate Deans of Undergraduate Studies. This new position is one of three, created by Thomas J. D'Andrea, Vice-President of Academic Affairs. The other Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies post has been filled by Willard Roth and the position of Ass0ciate Dean of Faculty will be handled by Ilene Kaplan. As a result of these new positions created by D'Andrea, individual duties will be redistributed. According to Dean Nelson, \Vice-President D'Andrea Mkes the combination of administrator and teacher.\ This idea appeals to Dean Nelson, who was ready himself, to propose that he decrease some of his administrative duties, in order to teach a course. In his present office as Associate Dean of Faculty, which he has held for three years, Nelson has taught one course and will be teaching one in the spring. While a major part of Dean Nelson's job as Associate Dean of Faculty is to interpret ad- ministrative regulations, as Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies he will continue interpret rules to students. Along with this, he will serve on the Academic Affairs Committee and work on the curriculum, in such areas as Liberal Learning and Fresh- man Preceptorials. Any faculty research that he is presently responsible for will be handled by Dean Kaplan. After attending Union, Nelson went to graduate school at Northwestern University. He returned to Union as a professor in 1954 and has been in the English Department since that time. As a faculty member at Union College, he has taught a variety of English courses at Union and has served on many committees since his arrival. After being at Union for more than 26 years, one area that Dean Nelson feels needs to be reevaluated is the advising system. As he stated, \I have seen numerous situations that could have been avoided if the system was used properly.\ It appears to Dean Nelson that the advising system is not used well, by either the faculty or the students. Although he admits that many students are not interested in faculty advice, Nelson believes it would be better if students were more conscious of the academic process and this could be done through an efficient advising system. A series of seminars will be conducted through Student AetiviLies. Mike Andolina, Assistant Dean of Students, will be coordinating seminars on such topics as alcohol abuse, debt collection, running a more effective rush, and kitchen operation. Fraternities are strongly encouraged· to attend. More details will be available at should see Jane Wood in ·Student Activities. This rush period is termed informal because its structure is more relaxed than the fall rush's structure. This rush Letters period allows any girl, whe._ther she went through the fall rush Union College Speaker's Forum presents Jim Bouton · former New York Yankee Pitcher - author of the Bestseller Ball Four - CBS Sportscaster Monday, February 16th at 8:00 pGm. Memorial Chapel $1.00 with I.D., $1.50 without +First 25 people to sign up in Student Activities wi II be guests .at the reception. · Rock to A A ~'s Law & Order Party featuring Dove Shackney & The Korvettes $1 .00 donation: for the \Law , Order, and Justice Society\ Hair Studio . Sassoon Stylists - European Highlighting . All Phases of Perm Waving · Cellophane Coloring - Vibrard Hennas . L'Obette Method of Wax Depilatory - Perm Specials 20 Pet. Discount with Bonnie or Robin. 519 Union Street Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 382-7956 15 Pd. Discount to Union Students (near Union College) Abort Celebration To the Student Body; Last week's Coneordiensis included a weU·written article explaining the role and the · function of the Women's Net~ worlt. In the article, though, it was mentioned that ~'recently an abortion forum was held, celebrating the 197.3 .SUpreme Court decision allowing all women the freedom of choice for abortions.\ It is my opinion, and that of many of my male and female friends, that itis not . the role of a student .. funded organization to present a \celebrationn of one side of such a controversial issue. I would like to stress the fact that 1 am not objecting to pro- abortion views being aired. I strongly beli£We in the exchange o.f ·ideas. I do object, though, to such a forum presenting ONLY the pro-abortion view. I would hope that an organization funded by all students, not only those who support abortion, but also many who are very much opposed~ would see fit to present both sides of such an important and emotional issue. A panel discussion on the issue would do much to air views and. facilitat~ the exchange of ideas on the . subject. A celebration forum, tlwugh, only' serves to offend thoSe who hold opposite beliefs and create animosity towards Lyle invites a II you hungry Union students to We're open to the wee hours. Let us make you one of our fine Submarines. 460 State St. 370-2566 the Women's Network. In closing, I want to make it clear that I am not at all anti• Women's Network. Quite the opposite is true. I appreciate the need for such an organization, and realize that women at Union often face obstacles that men don't even reali~e. However, as an organization funded by all students, I hope that the Woments Network will refrain from presenting only one side of an issue that is so important to. S<L many . Union students. Respectfully~ Dan Ryan Bloodmobile Results Announced To th~ Editors: Apology Offered To all the ~ple who attended the Thursday, Feb. 5 meeting for the Fall Term Abroad in Rennes. France: · · · I am genuinely sorry that my sarcasm has been miscon- strued. It's cold in Rennes ~ but you can handle it. · Sincerely, Andy Sobel '82 Blotto Booted To the Editor: In yow- last editorial I read This winter's bloodmobile thatthe Concert Committee and was a success,. taking into ~c- WRUC deserve a pat on the count the C()ld weather and the back for arranging the Blotto nu epidemic. A total of 241 units ccncert at Alumni Gym. As .far were donated this term. This as I'm concerned. the event was reflects a great campus effort. a joke. Why? Last spring Psi U Last winter, a record high for had Blotto, the same band. Union was set; 259 units were perform on their porch. There donated. The winners of the keg was no $3 admission fee. There contest .are Theta Delta Chi~ was no charge for aleohoL It Second Floor South, and was FREE. Davidson .South. Winners can . In case you missed my point, call me at 37Q..6473 to coll(:lct let me reiterate; it was free! ' their . prize. Please encoUI\age FREEl In other wortis, the your friends and professors to Concert Committee. WRUCt donate bl()Od when the Blood-- and whoever else was mobile returns thiS spring. :responsible for last Saturday Thank you. for suppottirig the night deserves more than a pat Schenectady Red Cross ~· this .->n the back~ they deserve a good · important venture. swift kick in the ass. Geoffrey Tolge~ '81· Raney Clark · Campus Ministry Mass Sunday, February 15 Rev. Vincent Ciotoli

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, Febr-uary 1~, 1981 Presidential Interview Continues: Morris Discusses Job Responsibilities By PAUL GROSSMAN This is the second installment of the CONCORDIENSIS In- terview with President Morris. Tbe interview focuses on the job of the President, and the way that Preside11t Morris feels about doing that job. What follows, as in the first in- stallment,_ is a transcript of the interview conducted with the President. CONCORDJENSIS: Presi- dent Morris, what is it about Union College that makes your job unique as compared to the jobs of your counterparts at · other institutions? PRESIDENT MORRIS: I think that there is a good an- swer to that. Union is an in- teresting and intriguing college for a number of reasons: 1) it is a liberal arts college with engineering, that makes it very interesting. 2) It is a college with a very definite sense of its. own history, a history that contributes to Union's being what it is today. 3) It is a private college at a time when private. independent colleges are facing particularly strong economic problems. 4) lt is in the Capitol District area. All of these things make Union intriguing. It is a college with a specific and unique mission; Union has many interesting and important points. Put all of these things together and you have a college that presents some very in• terestlng challenges for an administrator. C: What are your favorite fringe benefits that come with the job? PM: Meeting a lot of different people is a very fascinating aspect of this job. Because we'r~ involved in the (fund raising) campaign, we have been meeting a lot of the alumni . of the college and that has proven to be a fascinating ex- perience. Also a wide range of students, not only students in a class, but students from a wide variety of disciplines. Also the faculty, and community groups. Meeting all of these people I have found to be a very in- teresting if not instructive consequence of the job. C: President Morris, what is it about your job that you like least, most, and would like to change? PM: Those are all leading questions. What I like least is paperwork. What I like most is that I'm deeply involved in the planning for, and deeply in- volved in the life of the college. I like that the most because I have a belief that colleges like this are not only to survive for their own sake, but also because they play a very important role in our society. More important than I think . many ,people believe to be the case. Private independent colleges have a sense of .autonomy that you would not necessarily ·find in colleges supported by the state. C: Do you see yourself as ·the focal point of this autonomy? PM: No, I am not the foca1 point. ~I am the one who is trying to maintain the autonomy. I am not the focal point, I think that the faculty ls the focal point. C: Getting .back to the other question, what would you like to change about the job? PM: That's a hard one because its hard to see what I could change. Maybe the best thing I could change would be the length of a day from 24 to 36 hours. c~ Is that to get more sleep? PM: No. The same amount of sleep, but time to get more work done, there's always something else. C: What are the major problems that you see facing you, aside from people con- stantly turning around in your driveway? PM: (laughs) Do you think I should put a notice up? I think that the major problem facing me now is to keep up the momentum on the fund raising Education Department Assessed By HELEN CORDES College Press Service WASHINGTON, D.C. (CPS)- The college community's Jplited opposition to President Ronald Reagan's proposal to dismantle the U.S. Department of Education is apparently not very united at all. Proponents of keeping education programs organized on a cabinet level - the department was officially opened only last May after some 127 years of congressional debate - ha-ve been mobilizing support since the November victory of Reagan, who repeatedly vowed during the campaign to abolish the department. Though most members of the college lobby here don't want to meld education back into another cabinet department, some now overtly sup port making education into an independent, sub-cabinet agency like the National Science Foundation. Among tbe latter group, many were hard-pressed to say how the existence of the department has made much of a difference in the recent past. Indeed, the department has made \little difference\ in .federal funding of college programs and financial aid, says Peter Gossens, lobbyist for the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities. In fact, Gossens, who stressed he was not speaking on behalf of his organization, ventured that the department in its infancy may have done more harm than good. · \During the confusion of setting up the department, education legislation has suf- fered,\ he says. \There were all those lines of authority being set up, and no one seemed to have the official Department of Education word.\ of the Reagan administration suggested that after the education department is dismantled, its programs will be moved to the U.S. Depart- ment of Health & Human Services (HHS). The old U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare (HEW) was renamed HHS after the new education department was organized. Like others contacted for this article, .. Gossens felt that \agency status is preferable to having the department go back to HHS. We definitely feel that shouldn't happen.\ Joel Packe·r~ a lobbyist for the National Association of State Universities and LandmGrant Colleges who campaigned for the creation of the separate education department in 1978- 79, agrees that a move back to HHS would \be disruptive. Our big concern is stability. Education was buried in HEW.\ ·But Packer also says in- dependent agency status \wouldn't be that terrible.\ However, he adds that the direct line to the President that cabil,let-level status represents has been \helpful\ since May. TAKE CHARGE AT 22. campaign. That is going to be taking up a good deal of my time. C: You are now President of Union College. Do you still have any further aspirations for your professional career, or do you feel that you will devote the rest of your career to this office? PM: I did not ever think that I would become President of Union College. It is hard for me to think beyond my being President. I have no ambition beyond being President of this college. No, I can honestly say that this is it, that this is the top. For me, it is something that I never expected; it is an im- \baptized\. I don't feel like \the new kid on the block\. C: Before you mentioned Union's strong sense of hiStory, and certainly the Presidency plays an important role in that history. Taking a very long look into the future, what would you like to see as your major con- tribution to the college? PM:. That while I w.as here, I was able to maintain Union's quality as a liberal arts college witll engineering through a period of great difficulty for higher education 4 , and perhaps, even to increase this quality. That is what I would like to accomplish. \I can honestlv say that this is it, w ., that this is the top.\ portant place to be. C: You know your duties better than anybody, certainly better than I do. Do you think that you can step back and objectively grade yourself on the job that you've done? PM: I think that's unfair. I think that's unfair because I haven't been here long enQugh. I think that if someone from CONCORDY came back in another year-and-a-half, give me three years, then I would be in a better position to grade myself. I think that what you have to ask objectively is: is the college running smoothly? Are there things being put in place to insure that the faculty is free to express itself through the curriculum:? Are the various administrative functions of the college running smoothly? Those are the things that have to be asked to evaluate what I do. C: Is there anything about the job that is still new? PM: No, not anymore. Now I feel very much a part of Union and of the community. I have been getting involved with the larger organizations, so that I think in the main, I've been C: Is there anything else that you feel we haven't covered concerning your job? PM: Well, I think that you've covered all of the on-campus aspects of the job, my responsibility to the Board of Trustees, the fact that I teach - that. is very important to me - but as Union President, I am also Chancellor of Union University .and that places me on the Board of Trustees of Albany Law; Albany Medical, Albany Pharmacy and Dudley Observatory. I am an ex officio board member of all of these aRd as far as I can, participate in them. Union is a part of a wide academic community and for that I am a member of the Commissioner's Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on Higher Education, two other com- mittees that deal with colleges in the private sector and a committee to evaluate the outflow of students that will occur over the next decade. I am also, like I said, involved with many community groups. I think, though, that we've covered nearly everything. C: Thank you President Morris. Irt most jobs, at 22 you're at the bottom of the ladder. of literally millions of dollars worth of highly sophisticated equipment. You're a Division Officer. so you're in charge. - ' .. . ... \\ ..... ,.. . ~- ' In the Navy, at 22 you can be a leader. After just 16 weeks of leadership training. you\re commissioned an officer, part of the manage· ment team. And you're given the immediate decision· making authority your responsibilities demand. On your first sea tour, you'll be responsible for the woFk of up to 30 men and the care It's a lot more responsibility than most corporations give a man of 22. As a Navy Officer. you encounter new chalfenges. new tests of vour skills. new opportunities to advance your education. You grow. Don't just take a job. Become a Navy Officer and take charge. even at 22. r-----------~0 I NAVY OPPORTUNITY I INFORMATION CENTER I I P.O. Box 5000, Clifton. NJ 07012 I 0 I'm ready to take charge.·Thll me 1 about theN avy's officer programs. (.0G ) 1 l.. N atne--F~r-st--1-:::Pl-•as-• ~p,--:mt-:-1 -~La:::;st- 1 Address _________ _ I City _____ State· ___ Zip_ I Date of Birth __ tCollege/University __ I *Graduation Dat\----OGPA---- 1 t.Major/Minor--------- 1 Phone Number . tArt\aCndl•l 'Be\itTJmetulnll I Thu; IS for gPnPral recrUitment informat1on You do not have to £urmsh an,y of thl:\ information requested O,f course •. the I more we know, the more we can help you dl'te~mme the kmds of N 11 vy Jobs for wh1C'h you qualify C N 2 ; ':!J L----------. -- \Frankly he adds, \I don't think it would matter a lot\ if education programs were demoted from cabinet rank and centralized in an independent IAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST. agency. . . Rumors during the first days

I like lt\. tioned story, dency 11 that g look . d you r con- tere, I nion's ollege gh a y for ·haps, tality. ke ta ;e that >vered vou've rmpus my 1rd of ;each- >me- I am Union :es me ees of edical, )udley officio these lcipate t of a ty and of the Hoc fligher com- >lleges and a e the 1t will ade. I volved oups. I we've lg. sident dollars ;ticated livision arge. msibility 1sgive :y Officer. alfenges. s. new tlCe your 1. Become ke charge. ;-t I I I l, I I I - I - I - I - I d I I ,. I ,. I Is .~ OONOORDIENSIS~ February 12, 1981 Page 5 HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY TMG A: I miss you and B: we are gonna lick this habit, too! Happy Valentines Day. Love .SMS TMG....;The answer to ''the ·Question\ is 2:30 pm, 3..:20-81- SMS Jack-Happy Valentines Day Love Nancy Butch Cassidy and the Sun- dance Kid: Can I get you a cup of coffee? Happy Valentines Day \Katherin Ross Tom, Hew's Sharyn? Happy Valentines Day-Love Nancy Doug, Do you want to see a movie? Happy Valentines Day- Love Nancy TFS-ilappy Valentines Day- TFR Greeni-I did it! Love, Judi Day and February 16th last year? Wow! I love you-BSB. LC-Happy 2nd Anniversary and Valentines Day. You make my life full and beautiful. Love forever and always-M To my K Sig Brothers-Happy Valentines Day to a terrific group of guys. Love, your little Sister M \ Vonk--Happy Valentine's Day. So where's my dozen red roses? M To K. Sig-To a great bunch of fellows that we are proud to be a part of. Happy Valentine's Da:y- ·the Stardusters. To my Starduster Sisters- Glad I've gotten to know you all and become close friends. Happy Valentines Day-M. John M.-Happy Valentine's Day to my maybe future roommate and one hell of a security guard- M. Cagey-Happy V-Day from a special friend SM-Have a happy weekend with your valentine! PSK-We love you-LS Guido-keep dreamin' about that valentine's personal you think you will get!!!! Associates-Happy Valentine's Day-I Luv You! Jacki, Donna, Bambi, Fran, Barb, Lori,. and Wendy ,-We want you to be our Valentines- . PSK Happy Valentine-Birthday · Mom. I love you.-Claire . To a bear of very little brain. Thanks for showing me how much fun an addiction can be. . ·Love your most devoted groupie C.T. Happy V-day to my favorite freshman. I Love You! Charles Sharon Parish--Happy Valentine's Day-You S.V. For me, it's just Tri-Delt,. : from now on! ! ! Pam&Va·l-Happy V-day. I's send you guys a card ''if I had the money'' . . . F.B.B.-Happy Hearts Day. Soon let's take a Union College study break.-·Always, \A friend\ Happy Valentine's Day Beth, Fran and Linda-Thanks for putting up with me. Tomo--Always beware of locked doors, you never know who lurks behind. Hey Infections-What are you always smiling about? Scott N- To a sweet and sincere guy. Glad I've gotten to know you. Happy Valentine's Day-M. Duck-D.G. got a wonderful person- The Best of Luck Dan Lacoff Happy Birthday, Lover Boy! Delores & Kate. Tommy--Oh, Bless your heart! Love ya lots, Dem. Kelly-High. I'm ded. Carol and Donna-Seen any members of the Richard Wad Society lately? Forget the hundreds of them and have a Happy Valentine's Day. Ple<l.ge Laura W.-To the best \mom\ a pledge could ever have hoped for. I'll always love you. Happy Valentine's Day. Donna G. Sue, Thanks for playing the Jem but I really need the eggs. I love you, Chris. Shy Mark--Go get 'em-- Roomie Megan--Cupid's after ya! Beware-Secret Valentine '-.. Lancelot--Here's a Hug-- Gwen Krisia, Sharone & Galypoo- TsMACK! ! Halinkie Halina-Please write a short essay on the artistic history of the Valentin.e. Johnny P, Hugs & Kisses- Tara · Shelly and Maria-Tho I never stop by the thought is there. Happy V. Day (Maria, does that sound \logical\?)-M Happy Valentine's Day to all members of the Hotel-thanks · for all the great times! Love, - s. Cheerleaders: Happy Valentine's Day!-Sue 357D-Do it llp Friday at 6 p.m.!!! B.E.-Fmally! Please B.M.V. if you're not busy. Dave P .--Stay Cheerful!-- Your Secret Valentine J.C.W.-Happy Valentine's Day to the one I love.-W.J.M. To Nancy, Is this so em- barrassing?- Beast us Brutus Octopus M.B.-I'll always remember the great times that we spent together and all the fun and happiness that we shared. You're a very special Valentine. Love, an old Valentine. Janice, looks like we made it, here's another Valentine's Day, so let's stay \lovers\, and rewrite the play. Love ya whole bunches, Dave. Dear Sven Ronson--This personal is useless because you know how I feel. Love, Rim. Lead-Thanks for being you. I love you. Rim. Pavacic-if you were not such a nerd you might get a Valen- tine Personal! Dear Margo-You know how H&R--Here's to another · much I care. An awfUllot-R Menage A Trois this summer-H Andy, Freddie, Eric, Dave, Uncle Al, Steve, Hunter, Brian, Gregg, Neil, Chuck, Dave T, Billy, Kieth, Eddie, Mark, Jolm S, Giza, AI, Rich, Rob, and Bobby P.-Your body makes me tingle-? Wench Woman--Happy Hearts Day-Munchie At the Rat Valentine's Day Special Moose Head $.75 a bottle ,----Don't forget Attitude Readiustment Fri. 4 · 7 p.m. Sign up now for the 3rd Annual Foosballlournament Nevin--You're not such a Thanksgiving bird. You're a sweetheart. Sure I'll be your Valentine. CMA--I love you. Happy Valentine's Day. Your Sweetheart, HMG. Steff--H. V .D. and happy birthday! Love, Bro. SG: Only in the Bawonx does spaghetti grow on trees! Happy Valentine's Day! Love;G.S. Dwight: Your roommate is a rat and your friend is all wet. Happy Valentine's Day to all of you! The \Male (rat) Expert\ Roomie: ''Never shall I forget · 464 State St. we deliver the-days which I spent with you . · .. Continue to be my friend, as you will .always find me yours)' . Written by Beethoven, but felt by me. Thank you, residence life for such a great roommate.- -your roomie. Kermit-You have to kiss alot of frogs before you find your handsome prince. Paradox-Thanks for all the help. NBH Figlet, Happy 20th Birthday Bogart-Play it again. I love you. Dimples Keech--Welcome to the United States-NBR · ACL-Nice baby blues. Dani-•You're fantastic, phenomenal and amazing-- Good luck in Working! For My Favorite Future Texas Gigolo-The glint in your eyes has strummed the strings of my heart. There's more than one way to snare a drummer. Let's band together again. Dr. J. Hey Mooseface-1'11 love you always. You're great! Keep toddling along. Happy Valen· tine's Day. Snuggles Larry-Are you making the coffee or shall I? Love, Julie To my brightest star, Happy Valentines Day, I love you! .... Angel eyes To the smiling face that brightened spring mornings outside of psych., I'm glad you said hi! Love you--One Thousand. Nellie, I miss you. Happy Valentines Day all the way from Creece. Love, Greg B.E. If you're not too busy, will you be my Valentine-or do I have to take a number. To my favorite Polack, how long can we go on like this? Happy Valentine's Day. Love ya, Bunky To No. 23-Happy Valentine's Day! I'm watching!--Your secret admirer Mickey, Happy Valentine's Day! I love you and miss you- Flick! Minnie \Z Here's to our first Valentine's Day together. I love you! Love, \F\ - MTD-All my love, always. Danny Cathleen: I.L.U.\X\. Susie: Thanks for the memories. Wo ai ni, but you .gotta stop treating my ·like dirt. To Uncle Nunzio's Favorite nephew-and my favorite Fox. Be mine? Your number one fan. F .K.S.-May the \If clause\ be eternally shrinking over the stormy winter. Love Ya Always H. Schenectady 374-1888 . To Donna K-An older friend told me that the most important thing Freshman year to have- have a good roommate. Well, you're the BEST!! You've not only been a great roommate, you've been my best friend in the whole world, and I really LOVE you. Thanks . . . for just being you! Love always, Carol McKEAN HOUSE you are the greatest!! Love you mucy. Frigga & Barbie--Be our HT's, Please ......... . GKB-Remember Valentine's Day and February 16th last year? Wow! I love you- BSB Sno, ILU-BKM Ellen, It's been a great this year! Love always, Covent Gardens Happy Birthday: Bean, Bear, and Blondie We Love you all! Dear Ad, I love you and miss you! Fran Sue: Happy Valentine's Day!!! A Droid Barb: Happy Valentines Day- ·Andy CJ--Thanks for being a 'friend'. Happy Valentines Day- -A CAJ-See I did it! Happy Valentines Day-A Happy Valentines Day to a duck from a Droid! ! ! Stupid Bridges, can't be solved!\ D.P. Dear Val, George and I want to wish you a great Valentine's Day. I hope the rest of my years are as great as thil! one has been. Thanks for your love. Love, E.W.P. N.K. Gorgeous, amazing, witty, dazzline, sensuous, compessling Happy St. Patrick's Day! Looking for- ward to April 1st. Arnold Metzger. E.B. Happy Valentine's Day! Phila, Naval Recruiting Office. Lisa My Love, When will you notice me and open your heart so we can make music as one instrument. Your Secret Lover. Dear Admiral ·Degenerate, Hope you're enjoying the west. Thanks for the postcard, I love you and think of you often. Love, Admiral Booby. To the perfect girl, May things never change between us. Love always-FEliX and (b.m.r.h.) To R.H. & S.A.: I never tire of talking to you, you're so un- derstanding. I know you smoke before sex, but . . . All my love and Dimes, Richard V. Eldon. To the Union Hockey Team: Make no Bones-We love ya even when you lose. Some loyal fans. Susie Qusie-- That's twice! Don't worry, I'd never be able to leave you here. Happy Valentine's Day and relax about dinner, it'll be fun. Love ya always, Donny Isher. Beth, Here's to the green one's. Love Ya! Happy V-Day, Charis. I have simple tastes. I love to have the best. Schmoo

PageS .... OJ en 0 .... Ill >- \0 c ~· 0 0 a TECHI ES, UNITE! Stage Manager, Lennie Kirsch looks on as crew member Kenny Altman works on the set for this term's musical production. WORKING. In the background Susan Rubman does her share of the work. Photographers!!! Don't forget, you are invited to share your work with your fellow members of the Union College Community. Submit your work either to the Concordiensis or to the Arts Department Secretary!!! Don't forget to include your name and the title of your print. For further details contact Demetra Pontisakos at 370-6869. Photo Corner: THE FRESH EST VALENTINE FLOWERS FOR YOUR SWEETHEART As the first photograph in our weekly presentation of Student and faculty photography, we are proud to present the following by Senior, James (518) 370-1212 1638 Union St. , Schenectady, N.Y. 12309 culture Working on WORKING By PAUL. GROSSMAN At three o'clock in the mor- ning, there is always ()lie place 011 campus that is s11re to be open for students to go and do what students do. That place is, ·Of course, the AU-Night Study. Lately, though, there's another huilding on campus Whose lights have been burning •through the night. That building Is the Nott Memorial Theatre. Should you have been wan- dering around campus this past week and noticed the lights on in the Nott, I can per.sonally assure you that the janitors weren't the only ones in there. Union Theatre Is putting on a musical this term. The name of the muswaJ is WORKING; \work\ is the key word here. To people that attend theatre, a m11Sical is theatre with songs in it. To those who put theatrical prCJductions together, musicals are, generally speaking, \beasts \pigs and ~'Great­ Walls-of-China.'' WORKING is no exception to this rule. WORKING wiU,,simply stated, be one of the most technically ambitious sho:ws that Union theatre has ever attempted. The number of special effects being used in the show will hopefully provide the necessary \magic\ that will make the show a smash hit. It would be easy to tease prospective theatre-goers with hints about the kinds of effects that will be· used in the show. Archibald, entitled, ~'MARC­ January 2, 1981\ Any comments onMr. Archibald's work may be submitted to the Concordiensis: Arts Editor, box 2517. Schenectady Rape Crisis Service 24 Hr. Hotline Number: 346-2266 Campletely confidential Lighting, designed by Daro Beninati, will include blacklight and lasers among the many effects. Sets, designed by Charles Steckler, wi:ll include an. interesting array of motor vehicles scooting around the Nott. The set looks like an overgrown jungle gym, in· corporating six ladders and seven different levels. Sophisticated sound effects combined with many special projections will add a new audio-visual dimension to the production. All of this \magic\ doesn't just happen by itself. People give of themselves 100 percent, sometimes more than that. The stagecraft class is an exercise in on-the-job training. People have become instant experts in painting three dimentional bricks, connecting kitchen plwnbing and designing elec· trical circuts that would be the envy of many E.E. majors. The show is about working, what people do for a living. The \techies\ that are working so hard to put the show together are getting an interesting taste of what it is to be a steel worker, for example. They have no choice when there's a few· hundred pounds of scaffolding that has to be erected. People that \hang\ the lights are often found in positions more precarious than a window cleaner. Another integral part of hanging lights involves climbing ladders. And more ladders. Firemen haven't gone up and down as many ladders in such a short period of time as when sixty lights have to be hung in about a week. _ Wonder what its like to be a garage mechanic? Working will make use of two \eighteen• wheelers'' and a \Cadillac\. Backstage is beginning to look like a parking lot. The set, designed by Charles Steckler, Professor of Arts, will function as a kitchen, roadside diner, factory, bedroom, and other rather unconventional settings. Mr. Beninati's lights will create a supermarket, a ballroom, a parking lot, and even ·a highway. To spell it out clearly, the show will be great to look at. The actors are who ultimately make use of the set, though. But with all of the talents of the designers and the students working on WORKING. The actors will have the tangible vehicles needed to present their characters as part of the real world, and in fantasy worlds-all the while remaining on stage in the Nott. With so many aspects of the show being put together by such talented people. WORKING promises to have something for everyone who sees it to point to and say, \Wow look at that.\ For the \techies\ the show will be their \something to point to\ and say, \I did that.\ THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12 ACT 1: DEMETRA PONTISAKOS BAMBI SCHLAUCH MELISSA GOLD ACT II: JODI COHEN TICKETS ON SALE 8:00 P.M. THURSDAY IN CARNEGIE HALL Dutch Hollow Pub Friday & Saturday: Beef & Brew 5:00-7:00 p.m. Pitcher of Beer, Carafe of Wine and Salad Bar with each meal Saturday: Happy Hour 8:30- 10:30 p.m. All House Drinks for $1.00 *Remember the' Pub is dosed ........ Saturdays until 4:30 p.m. - L A will stud Lim fore: pani full and Enu will here of tl will the 1 Tc tera reno eve1 schE Stuc Edw cers ther< Lim For dane lectt and Tb cone perf~ Cent of tl Dan4 to M (SH Sch 0' fir pi PI a al ~ Ft o1 C< io bt ql SE bE fa PI

as be a ill en• ill he in to arts Limon A unique dance experience will be availa'ble to Union students this term. The Jose Limon company, one of the foremost modern dance com- panies, will be in residence for a fuH month at Union, .Skidmore and Russell Sage Colleges and Emma Willard :School. There will be lecture demonstrations here, and far the last two weeks of the term all dance classes will be taught by members of the company. To further students' in- teraction with this world- renowned company, additional evening classes have been scheduled by the Graduate Study and Continuing Education Division. For dan- cers with previous training there will be six sessions in Limon technique and repertory. For non-dancers as well as dancers, there will be a mini• lecture course in Dance History and Aesthetics. The Limon Company is now concluding a European tour. It performedattheNew York City Center Jan. 27 to Feb. 8 as part of the \Masters of American Dance\ series. And then Feb. 24 to March 17 at Union. Tickets going fast for WORKING . Box office open daily _1·8 p.m. FLOWERS ~~-· HAPPY VALENTINE 1 S DAY JOHN GALLO FLORIST 96 Jay Street (Opposite Clly Hall) VALENTINE'S DAY SPECIALS (518) 346-4487 Schenectady, N. Y. '12305 CASH& CARRY TELA FLORA FLORAFAX Successful careers Don't Just Happen At the Institute for Paralegal Training we have prepared over 4,000 college graduates for careers in law, business and finance. After just three months of intensive training, we will place you in a stimulating and challenging position that offers professional growth and expanding career opportunities. As a Legal Assistant you will do work traditionally performed by attorneys and other professionals in law firms, corporations, banks, government agencies and insurance companies. Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all course work completed at The Institute. We are regarded as the nation's finest and most prestig- ious program for training legal specialists for law firms, business and finance. But, as important as our academic quality is our placement result. The Institute's placement service will find you a job in thecityofyourchoice.lfnot, you will be eligible for a substantial tuition refund. If you are a senior in high academic standing and looking for the most practical way to begin your career, contact your Placement Office for.an interview with our representative. Wewillvisityourcampuson: APRIL 7, 1981 \ The Institute for Paralegal Training (Operated by Para·Legal, Inc ) Approved by The American Bar Association Programs EarnFuUCreditToward M.A. in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law. Page 7 culture JT: SoldOut By MATT COREN What were you doing at 5.:30 on Monday morning? If you are Bob Fox or Rich Tanenbaum you were in Carnegie Hall waiting for tickets to go on sale for James Taylor. If you were still sleeping at 5:30 and you woke up at 7 a.m. to beat the crowds, then you were probably also greeted by Will Lloyd, Susie Wilder and Nancy Dubow. This may sound a little ridiculous considering the fact that tickets did not go on sale until 1 p.m., but the payoff turned out to be tremendous. These first five people, in a line of hundreds of Union students, were able to purchase the first four rows of seats for the concert. The line of students which followed bought almost the entire orchestra for the biggest concert in recent years. Enthusiasm for the concert gripped a large portion of the campus as the students anxiously awaited their chance at the best seats available. At the end of the two-and-one-half hour siege, 950 tickets that had been set aside for Union students were sold. Uni<:~n students were not the only ones who showed en- thusiasm. Faculty members could also be seen on line for tickets. Alumni were also present, as were a few six-year med students, now in Albany. After a mere half hour, the news reached Concert Committee Co- chairman Billy Friedman and Seth Oringher that the tickets allotted to Just-A-Song in Schenectady had sold out. At 3 p.m., Carnegie started to look deserted again and the din was over until Tuesday. Billy and Seth both gave tremendous sighs and smiled again. Tuesday came and the rest of the tickets went. Union students and faculty members who were scared away by the crowds and the line that went all the way downstairs past the Pizza Pub the day before, came back to get their tickets. The tickets are gone now, but the excitement continues to grow as the concert approaches. On Saturday, February 28, James Taylor will be at Proctor's Theatre to play for one of the most enthusiastic groups of Union students in a long time. Smythe Attacked ! ! It's true. Smythe House was v:iciously attacked last week in a letter to the editor. What is a rather funny coincidence, is that the perpetrator is currently living with a descendant of Eustas P. Smythe. That's right, right here at Union another member of the Smythe family has come out of the closet. He lives in one of our fraternities, and in fact, he is quite im- portant to their existence. His name: Barbo Smythe. Last year, before Smythe House came into existence, Barbo lived with three of his brothers, and attempted to defy the name of Smythe. The four brothers, Barbo, Otto, Carmo and Bilo, would not admit to their heritage. It was becoming such a problem with the rest of the family that the famed W.T. Smythe, who has a great deal of clout with the administration, pulled some strings so that these four brothers could be observed from within. Three current Smythies, sometimes known as Joan's studs, were sent on a mission to live with this brotherhood and observe the goings on. After only two terms of this strict surveillance, a decision was made by the better elements of the Smythe family. Barbo was not the problem. It was his three cigar smoking, harp playing brethren who were defying the Smythe traditions. Members of the Smythe family decided that these three should be banned Delta Chi's · Molson Nite We have 100 cases of frosty Molson Beer Tuesday, February 17 at 10:00. p.m. 3 Beers for $1 .00 from our community and only allowed to return for short visits. And so it is only since these three evil-doers have departed that Barbo Smythe has rehabilitated himself. Along with Barbo, appeared Kruego Smythe, a fifth, barely-known brother, who seems determined to jump on the train to hap- piness, so to speak. Barbo and Kruego have vowed to carry on the Smythe tradition, and we have promised in return not to release any of their fraternity secrets. For instance, we won't say anything about the porno magazines in the bathroom or the chanting down in the basement. NEW HOURS AT SCHEI\I ECTADY BOX OFFICE The Schenectady branch of the Albany League of Arts Community Box Office, located in Proctor's Arcade, 432 State Street, has new hours: Monday -Saturday, 10 a.m .. 5 p.m. Tickets are on sale at the Schenectady C BO for per- formances~ as well as other cultural activities and spor- ting events, throughout the Capital Region. Season schedules and other information are on display at the Box Office and .free copies of the Albany League of Arts Monthly Calendar of Cultural Events are also available there. The Schenectady Com- munity Box Office telephone number is 370-0047. ·

Page 8 CONCORD IE NSIS, Febnwry 12, 1981 ures Blue Skies Over Union: Breakfast • In By:D,BOOTH One of the most oftaused expressions of the human language consists of .only three words, namely, ''I love you.\ Unfortunately this expression is also one.of the most misused, as well as one of the most dHficult to deliver with a suave air. The solution to the misuse of this beautiful ex:pression is simply to avoid using it, except when one is sincere. Moreover, when one has expressed love for another, it should be made clear whether it is the love of friend- ship, or the love which comradeship inspires, or that love whicll Emerson would have us give allfor. Thus there are no misunderstandings about the nature of a love relationship. But this does not dispel the difficulty of saying ''I love you.\ ' Certainly the meaning behind the words is what is important, and no matter how clumsily they are delivered, no sensitive person can fail to appreciate them. Yet an easy sincere delivery can only enhance their effect. The way to this easy delivery is perhaps a different way of saying it, or to show your emotion instead of speaking it. When I say a different way of saying \I love you\ I am not necessarily speaking of changing one's native tongue to another lamguage, although this has its advantages. For example, the expression for ''I love you\ used by certain American lndian tribes tran- slates (very roughly) to \I caress her with flowers.\ When one remembers the custom of giving flowers to express af- fection, this statement seems especially apt. Incidentally, .in the same way in which our· languagE! uses \love\ and \make love'' almost in- terchangeably, this phrase is also an expression for the sexual act, which I find par- ticularly poetic. An expression liktJ this can he made more expressive by certain small acts such as gently lifting her hand and placing the fingertips against a cheek, then slowly kissing the palm of her hand to display devotion. Yet a change of language and other small action.s are soon forgotten. It is the everyday display of :love and affection which expresses \I love yo11\ the best. Perhaps the best way to subtly reveal ''I love you\ is to fix her breakfast .in bed, because the very .fact that' one has the devotion to. arise at an early hour and go to the trouble of preparing a breakfast is bound to impress the fact of such love upon her. The· preparation of a truly romantic breakfast is not difficult, especially of one has the foresight to set out all the ingredients ahead of time. My favorite menu is for a light breakfast including a fruit tart, toast, flummery, and juice. A fruit tart is simply a tart filled with as .many or as few types of fruit as desired. An assortment of strawberries, red rasberries, and orange slices is quite nice. Add a splash of cream for flavor. The toast should be of Italian bread lightly toasted and buttered. Instead of toast, muffins may be served. Flumiiiery is a sweet whose name means \cup of cream\. It is made by combining 2% cups of heavy cream, % cup sugar, 2 tablespoons grated lemon rind in a bowl and heating this mixture to nearly boiling. In another bowl sprinkle 1' tablespoon unflavored gelatin over lf4 cqp water, and let it soften for 10 minutes. Then set the bowl in a pan of hot water and stir until the gelatin is dissolved. Add the gelatin to the cream mixture with l tablespoon of orange flower water (available at specialty food shops and pharmacies).. Then strain into 6 oz. wine glasses. Chill until set and garnish with fruit. Certainly there are variations on this menu. Being a growing boy, I don't often indulge in coffee, yet a creamy cappucino or mocha mix could be delightful. To add a little zest to the breaktast, one might sab- Love is a six.-letter word. I n the lan- suage of romance, there's but one W()fd that truly makes the heart grow fonder: Godiv41. Our heart- warming selection in- cludes Valentine hearts, golden l>allotins and gift boxes, each filled with a tempt- ing assortment of our finest chocolates and all elegantly decorated with tender loving care. So while there may be many ways to express your love. yo11'll find G<Kiiva tlas more delicious ways to give . a taste of how true it is. . GODIVA. f .'/ntHII\H\ GAlllltlL£5 '1EW YOAI! P.IIPI$ CO'..OGNl Center City Plaza 433 Slale Si., Schenectady (518) 393.0317 Robinson Square 301 Hamilton St., Albany (518) 434-171»9 Bed stitute champagne mixed With strawberries. An additional helpful hint for breakfasts: the night before, ask her if she would like to be called - for breakfast, or should· you just nudge her. And don't forgetthe flowers. As mentioned before, it is the everyday things which show love the best. It takes love from the strange to the household word. My persanal feeling is that we need more of this sort of household word. Everybody should have a chance to caress someone with flowers. fo;r Peanut-Butter Withdrawal: Substitute the Soybean So what are you going to do the next time the urge for some good old peanut butter strikes? \Try a candy bar,\ suggests James Mack of the Peanut Butter and Nut Processors Association. Candy bars, he explains, are going to be a lot easier to find than peanut butter itself, even candy bars with peanut butter in them. \A candy ba,r is from 20 to 50 percent peanuts, like in ·a Butterfinger, so the shortage wo~'t affect the price or availability of candy and peanut cookies· as· much as peanut butter, which is 90 percent peanuts.\ But that alternative, while plugging the hole in students• diets, can also open a few holes in students' teetb. Still, Iowa State nutritionist Elisabeth Schaefer counsels that students panicked by peanat butter-less grocery shelves should not · despair. · \Bologna and cheese are other sandwich fillets that are high in protein,\ sbe told the Iowa State Daily. \Other things you can put in sandwiches that are high in protein are tuna, chicken, turkey, bam, and other meats.\ as- GO· FULL SPEED Electric Boat is the world's foremost designer and builder of nuclear submarines- one of the great engineering challenges of this century. With a $3 billion backlog and long-term contracts. Electric Boat offers career opportunities in nearly every engineering discipline (including electrical, mechanical, civil, etc.). top pay and benefits. long-range stability and an unmatched lifestyle on the southern New England seacoast. uS C•t,zenshlprequ•red- an Equal Opponun•ty Employer M&F. HC GENERAL DYNAMICS Electric Boat Division The Best Shipbuilding Team in America Groton. CT 06340 If only a nutty butter will do, try loading a do~it-yourself peanut butter-making machine· athey're available at some hardware and toy stores-with walnuts or .soybeans. Walnuts and cashews can be made into a \butter\ spread, Schaefer says, but it's \very expensive.\ Soybeans are a more economical choice, but the results could be less than satisfying. \Soybeans would be of out- standing nutritional value,\ she told the student paper, \if only something palatable could .Pe made out of them.\ Electric Boat Division will be interviewing on campus on February 19, 1981. Please contact the Placement Office for time and place. Come to the Races! -J'+-~l· .... Chi Psi Lodge Friday, Feb. 27th fun for all ~E MITE Thorobred racing • on film Post Time 9:30· Tickets $1.00 advance $2.00 door FREE BEER AND POPCORN

. do, some -with be a but than out- she only ,Pe OONOORDIENSIS, February 1~,. 1981 Page 9 13eer and ftnch :Dandng ·· Ju.n • ·de .. · .kqp_pa. sura ..S_ponsors ~ffie Sound. (o. , jJ(tllctt: ODl(hape(_ Jime: ,B:o~nt Vat~= '3-r;;.::Jep 13 By SUSAN CALHOUN College Press Service Iowa .needed it. New York admitted Texas had it,. but couldn't handle the deal. Iowa resorted to contacting a .go- between in Chicago. The go- between finally pulled o,ff the deal in December, and the 6840 pound shipment arrived in January. Now· comes the big question: can it last through the spring? Iowa's not the only place asking such questions and in- Pants Fashions Vary By JUDI CHERVENAK This upcoming spring and summer, fashions will abound with much new variety in pants shapes and lengths. There is something for everyone. Included in the new pants shapes are knee-lel).gth Ber- mudas, trim pants, tucked bloomers, spare side-draped knickers, gauchos, walking shorts, and the jodhpur and Zouave looks. Popular materials for spring-swnmer are linens, silks, cottons and leathers. Pants should not fit as tightly as they have in previous seasons. Designers, such as Giorgio Armani, Gianni Ver- sace, Perry Ellis, Ralph Lauren, Anne Klein and Calvin Klein seem to be favoring looser styles._ One size larger is preferable to one size smaller. Fuller pants hide several problems for the more rounded woman. The more extreme jodhpur and Zoave looks are especially attractive on the taller and slimmer woman. For those women who are not e':lactly ecstatic with their legs and ankles, opaque stockings in darker shades are recom- mended. Textured and lighter panty hose might be preferred by the taller or more slender woman. Shoes should be lower heeled than those often back-breaking styles featured in previous seasons. Even flat ones are shown. Depending on tops and blouses., all figure types can wear the new styles. An im- portant thing to remember when selecting the new styles is that pants should' never he too tight! The proportion of ·the woman's body must be con- sidered. The worst things a large bottomed woman can wear are straight, skinny pants. Fuller pants, especially over the hips, are a great disguise. The new pants offer new alternatives in dressing. Dressier pants are substituting for short cocktail dresses. Instead of shorter skirts, women may prefer shorts, especially the spareside-draped knickers. These new styles are giving women more freedom since pants are comfortable and you. don't have to really worry about how you sit. However, on eertain occasions, the more conventional, crossed-leg position may be anropos. All students interested in volunteer work, especially in working with • • • sen1or c1t1zens contact Mike Andolina, . .. ... . Assistant Dean of Students at 6061 Second Floor South Fox {§ Valentine's Day Party ·i Friday, Feb. 13, 10:00 p.m. ~------------------------------------------~~ dulging in purchasing practices once reserved for wheeler- dealers on the spot oil market. All over the nation, colleges' hottest commodity is growing scarce. A .panic is growing over the shortage of nothing less than ... peanut butter. Finding peanut butter is a task to stretch the resources and imagination of the most able college food ·service di>rector these days. But exhaustive searches by school purchasing departments have been only occasionally suc- cessful, and some colleges are starting to ration the substance. For example, students at Penn State, University of California at Berkeley,. and the University of Colorado now find peanut butter offered at only one of the 21 meals their food services provide each week. Northwestern University began a similar ,rationing plan, · but cancelled it when the university food service found some peanut butter in a Kankakee, Ill. warehouse at the last minute. Students here have also felt the peanut butter crunch. Roger Fellows, a senior, said he tried substituting other \high protein snacks,\ such as bologna. \But they jU:st didn't cut it,\ he ad- mitted. (For Qther peanut- butter substitutes, see story on page 8.) To satisfy his craving, fellows recently went to an Albany supermarket, where he bought two 10-ounce jars for $1.89 apiece. \That's a lot more than I used to pay,\ the off-campus resident noted, ~'but it was worth it.\ Neil Rosenbaum, another senior, who lives at Phi Gamma Delta, said he's smoothed over the peanut butter crisis with shipments from his home, in Meant to be scent. Pamper. her with C & E's heart shaped soap. Naturally scented with a Gloversville. To spread out his supply, he's resorted to clan- destine eating :practices. \I'll take it out around 3 a.m.,\ he said. \If other people see me with it,. they'll want some, and then it will all be gone.\ Dan Cuozzo, a fourth floor West RA said he's seen a number of his floor residents practicing similar hoarding. ''I do it myself,\ he conceded. \The hard thing is getting the bread ,for it up to my room.\ The nation's three peanut- producing regions-Virginia and the Carolinas; the southeastern states of Georgia, Alabama and Florida; and the southwestern states of Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico-had rainfalls that were 34 to 44 percent of the · usual summer average. Marsh says the shortage was noticable by early September, but that the International Trade Conunission (ITC) refused to allow peanut imports to com- pensate for the domestic crop failures. The restrictions and the \drought pushed the price of raw peanuts from 40 cents per pound to $1.75 per pound by December. Finally, the U.S. allowed two- and-a-hal£ million pounds to be brought into the country, but that was \about a quarter of what we needed,\ Marsh contends. Peanut butter manufacturers are again in the midst of hearings with the ITC, and Marsh is optimistic that \we'll get a fair shake from the new administration.'' If trade restrictions are . suspended, Marsh estimates the price of peanuts should settle at about 80 cents per pound by the end of the spring-still twice the amount of last summer. delicate tea rose fragrance: . - each heart shaped glycerine soap was made to perfectly fit in the palm of her hand. One of the nicer ways to say \Happy Valentine's Day~ or to make any day a special occasi0n. Crabtree & Evclyti LONDON R oblnson Squoro .101 Hamtl!on St . Alban\ !Sl8l463·H04.1 Mon.·lial l0:00AM•5:30PM Sun 12:()().5:00PM C' filter ('fly Plaza 433 Stale St .. Schenectadv (SI81~ . Mm-Sot. 10:00AM·5~PM Thu~. Eve. to 9:00PM A colour cataiQ£Ut is a,..ailable. Features Needs StaH Writers Contact Dan Booth (6570) or Judi Chervena'k (6475)

Page 10 '81-'82 Abroad Union Terms Abroad is now accepting applications. for all 1981-32 programs. At a recent meeting students were in- formed that they may apply for the following terms: swnmer, 1981, A Study of Socialized Medicine in Three Countries, fall term, 1981, Bath England, Florence, Italy, and Rennes, France; winter term, 1982, Athens, Greece, Seville, Spain, and a kibbutz in Israel. The spring 1982 term will be held in Vienna, Austria. All students regardless of major are eligible to participate in a term abroad as long as they maintain a 2.0 average and pass the course which is a prerequisite for their term. Students take three courses while abroad, which is the equivalent of the course load they would take here on cam- pus. They generally live with families so they can better absorb the culture of the country. A term a bread costs about the same as a term spent on campus, except that the student OONOORDIENSIS, Febrtiary 12, 1981 ~round camp~s must pay the airfare· to and from the U.S. and the host country. Anyone interested in· a summer or fall term should apply immediately, as selec- tions are being made now so that you can preregister for the appropriate prerequisite course for your term. The deadline for fall applications will be Feb. 20. 4re4- calendar Winter and spring ap- plications are also being ac- cepted now, but notifications will be sent out 'later in the year. For more information and applications, please see Joan Freeman or Professor WiHiam Thomas in the Terms Abroad office, Humanities 211. Physlcs Department Notice: Recommendations relating ~to the third~ year evaluation for • · Dr. Jay Newman of the Physics Department are now being accepted. All interested' faculty · and students are encouraged to contact the Physics Depart- · ment office, Science and · Engineering Center, N 308, or · . call ext. 6254. FU .. M . Feb. 16-Russell Sage College . will present thEi film \The Sting,'' with Robert Redford and Paul Newman. The film will ,be shown at 7 and 9 p.m. at the Schacht Fine Arts Center. For more infarmation, call 270'- 2344. Feb. 17-The Albany Public Library will present the film \Leadbelly which is based on the life .of the legendary blues- folksinger. The film will be shown at 2 and 8 p~m. at the Albany Public. Library, 161 Washington Avenue. For more information, call 449-3380. Feb. l7-The Junio:r. College of Hillel Presents Next Wednesday Feb 18, Hillel presents its first speaker of the year, Susan Weidman Schneider. She is the Executive Editor and a founding mother of LILITH, the groundbreaking independent Jewish. women's magazine. Susan Schneider speaks from her own ex- perience, as well as with professional expertise, about the choices and changes Jewish women are facing in their own lives as they seek to reconcile their sometimes polarized identities: as women and as Jews. The lecture will be in Strauss Lounge at 4:30 and will be followed by a wine and cheese reception. All are welcome! Debaters Speak Out Albany will present the \film \Dracula starring Frank Langella atll:l5 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. at the Student Center. For more information, call 27():.2344. Feb. 17-The Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller Empire State Plaza will present the films \Picasso is 90'' and \Cycle\ as part of their series of films about art. The films will be shown at 12:10 p.m. at the Perform~ng. Arts Center, Recital Hall. For more in- formation can 473-7521. LECTURE Feb. 18-;Margaret Pearson, Instructor of Chinese History at Skidmore College, will present a lecture entitled \China After Normalization: Can War Be Avaided?\ The lecture will be held at noon in the Albany Public Library, 161 Washington A venue. For more information, call 449-3380. MUSIC Feb. 13-14--The Alb~ny Symphony Orchestra. under the Fresh Rep., Election Results Gary S. Lehr and Caryn Opengart won last Thursday's run-off for the two Freshman Representative positions to the Student Forum. Lehr received 46.3 percent of the vote and Opengart received 31.5 percent. Vivian Stern, the third candidate, received 22.2 percent. direction ·of Julius Heygi, will perform the world .premiere of Leonard KasiUeis' Piano Concerto on Friday, Feb. 13 in the Troy Sa:vings Bank Music aall at 8: 30<p.m., and Saturday, Feb. 14 in the Albany Palace Theater at 8:30 p.m. For mor~ information, call 465-4755. Feb. 13-The Kidz, a rock 'n' roll band in Albany, will per- fornn a refreshing 'blend of standards ·and original music at the Chateau Lounge on Hudson .Avenue. For more uuormation, call 457-2836. Feb.l3-15-DavidAmram, the Renaiss~nce Man ·for all music., will be performing at the Caffe Lena, 45 Phila Street, Saratoga Springs. For more information, call 584-9789. THEATER Feb.16 &17-TheRPI Players will be holding open tryouts for \The Devils\ at 7:30 p.m. Tryouts will take place-at the 15 Street Lo~ge on . the RPI Campus. For more information, call 270-6503. for the spring term, except for graduating seniors, must im- mediately give notice of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. Potential March graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of winter term, if they have not already done so. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the week of February 23-27. Some departments may announce special arrangements for ad- vising. Please be alert for such announcements. Union Cagers Brenda Hugick (22), and Carol Wren on the court. The Union Philhamaethean Society is planning on ex- panding its activities this spring term. We intend to enter into novice debate tournaments and various other endeavors in order to practice and perform the art of debate. This year, the topic on the agenda is: \Should the United States increase its foreig-n military com- mitments?\ The two winners will assume their posts shortly. This is the first year Freshmen Representatives have been elected to the Forum, under the new · campus governance structure, implemented last spring. Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, March 2nd. A ten dollar late .fee will be assessed thereafter. Dutchwomen: Bow to Danes The women's basketball team will battle the Lady Dolphins ·of LeMoyne College Friday night at 7 p.m. at Memorial Field House. LeMoyne, which entered the week with an 8-3 record, is led by Eileen Emmon&, a 5'4\ senior guard who became the first woman i:n LeMoyne's history to reach the 1,000-point plateau. Emmons comes into the game with a ·12.1 scoring average, while Kathy McEney is hitting at a 14.4 clip. · Union, meanwhile, entered this week with a 3-6 record after' losing at Hamilton, 81-57; beating New Paltz, 74-63; and dropping a heartbreaking 57-55 decision at Albany State on Monday. Freshman, Julie Miller paced Coach Lynne Barta's Dut- chwomen in the loss to Hamilton as she had 13 points and eight rebounds. Carol Wrenn (11 points) and Anne Fitzmaurice (10) were Union's other twin-digit scorers. The Dutchwomen's victory over New Paltz was the second of the season. Leading 36-31 at halftime, Union was .paced again by Miller, as she poured in a career-high 21 points and pulled in a dozen rebotinds while Cay Lynch added 18 markers· and senior captain Shelia O'Donnell netted 12 points. Union's loss to the Great Danes was particularly crushing because of a 32-21 halftime lead the Dutchwomen saw dissolve over the final 20 minutes. Lynch meshed 18 points, while O'Donnell and Wrenn added 10 each. Miller was again high rebounder for Union with 14, with Fitzmaurice starring on defense. Final preparations are being made for the Second Annual Capital District Women's Basketball Tournament, which will be hosted by Union next Friday, Feb. 20, and Saturday, Feb. 21. On Friday at 6 p.m., RPI will play the College of St. Rose, while Union battles Albany State at 8 p.m. Saturday's consolation game will be held at 6 p.m. and the title game at 8 p.m. Business Staff Positions. Available with Concordiensis Call Jeff 382-2082 The debate organization is · under the guise and advice of Political Science Professor William Daniels, who has volunteered his time and energy towards this worth-y organization. He has extensive ·experience in the field of debate .., and is willing to convey his knowledge and expertise to all students interested. Anyone who is interested in taking part in the soxiety is welcome and will definitely be received warmly by the other debators. If interested, contact Chairman Brad Karp, or Neil Eisenstadt or Doug Silverstein, or simply leave a notice in the society's mailbox. Intellectual Cabaret will meet . Monday night, Feb. 16, at 9 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. This is our last meeting before our first \Cabaret\ and au important one. Anyone interested in helping please attend. Camp Triangle Winter Address 2575 Troy Rd. Schenectady, N. Y. 12309 Phone: 518-783-1233 8 .,..I. Summer Address P.O. BoxS Lake Clear, N. Y. 12945 Phone: 518~91·3311 Sommer camp for retarded near Lake Placid now hiring: Campus interviews arranged Write: 2575 Troy Rd. Pf'e-Reg-i·s-t-raf~o-R Announced Pre-registration materials for spring term· ·1980-81 will be available at the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Monday, February 23rd. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to uirlon .. Name the Room and Win a Bottle of Champagne! The Cabaret Room is not going to be just for CABARE-T any more . . . It'll be used by CABARET, COFFEE HOUSE and INTELLECTUAL CABARET. All entries should be sent to: · Lorraine Marra. The winning name will be selected Feb. 19, 1981. The prize for the best name for the room· will be a bottle of imported CHAM- PAGNE++Cinzano Asti. • 1115 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY PHONE 377-264:2 or 382u8684 Homestyle Italian 9 Cook.ing Salad Bar Included with All Pasta & All Dinners . . Reasonable prices Plus a 10% Discount to Union College Students with IDs .. Banquet Facilities - 5 s B Th Dutc losin wee~ poWE Th solid Raid lack Raid Un at t1 Mas• Brae jurec circ1 Char brin! to fii vete1 Co in tl wide a Ion line,. had oppc rest capi' portt H Un JarnE woul• crew Divi: Sprir arch1 Mari shen pron: nybr' settlE the C than forrr finis I team Sprir meet Siem and l team show Dutc of SiE to t earli Th serie Unic oppo rivet to fin 45-m crac spee' plod1 blazE be 1 M:ari an e: 5.63, hono Le inth Jim; to ta pole Wrig med; the · effor Gar1 runn Stirn Gre~

will . of in . · 'n' perg of ic at tion, the jaffe for p.m. 15 RPI for im- their an of arch the their at they with the ad- such later by to: · 19, best be a OONOORDIENSISJ February 1SJ 1981 Page 11 sports Skaters Continue Slide SPORTS HAPPENINGS Feb. 12-18 By SCOTT FITZGERALD The · Union College Skating Dutchmen continued th.eir losing streak ,over the past week, bowing to traditional powers Colgate and Holy Cross. The Dutclunen played good solid hockey against the Red Raiders of Colgate but Union's lack of depth allowed the Raiders to post a 6;.1 victory. Union is plagued by 'injuries at the present time with Bill Mason, Mickey Perras, and Brad Nicholson all on the in- jured reserve list. Under these circumstances, Union coach Charlie Morrison was forced to bring up junior varsity players to fill the void left by the injured veterans. Colgate opened up the scoring in the opening seconds of a wide-open first period of play on a long hard shot from the blue line. Both Union and Colgate had advantageous scoring opportunities throughout the rest of the period, but failed to capitalize on these op- portunities. Colgate finally broke the ice again, beating Dutchmen goalie Mike Merlo in the last seconds of the period to close out the score with a 2-o· lead. . Mark (Boat) Bon caught Colgate off guard early in the second period, receiving a pass from Kyle Woodman, and firing a,quick shot past the motionless Colgate netminder to bring the Dutchmen W;ithin ojle goal. Colgate then revealed some of their great scoring potential, sifting two quick goals into the Union net to close outthe second period with a 4-1lead. The fast, hard-hitting pace carried into the third period with both teams drawing a considerable number .of penalties. The Dutchmen had numerous. opportunities to beat the Red Raider netminder but wre foiled on all of these at- tempts. Colgate .possessed a little more luck around the Unio\) goal, however, putting two goals past Merlo late in the period to finalize tbeir 6-1 victory. Despite the 6-1 score, Dut- Ha~riers Con1petitive By GRANTLAND RICE, JR. Union track mentor Chuck James knew Saturday's meet would be no easy task for his crew of tracksters. With Division II powerhouse Springfield rolling into town and archrivals Siena College and Marist up to their usual shenanigans, the meet promised to be a real# don· nybrook. But when.J;he dust had settled, the scoreboard showed the Garnet thinclads had more than held their own against such formidable competition, finishing second in the four team meet with 44 markers. Springfield rolled to first in the meet, tallying 89 points, with Siena and Marrist logging 22 and 19 points, respectively. The team's rapid improvement is shown in the fact that the Dutchmen's 22 point thrashing of Siena avenged a 1lh point loss to the Indians two weeks earlier. The meet was marked by a series of fast clockings by both Union spikesters and their opponents that kept track fans riveted to their seats from start to finish. A case in point was the 45-meter dash finals. At the crack of the gun, Union speedster Darrel Logan ex- ploded out of the blocks and blazed down the track, only to be nipped at the wire by Marist's Mutone. Logan logged an extremely quick clocking of 5.63, only to receive fifth place honors. Leading the Union onslaught in the meet was team captain Jim Zalucki. Zalucki skied 12'6\ to take home top honors in the pole vault. Football star Henry Wright also turned in a gold medal performance, capturing the triple jump with a 45'1\ effort. In addition, five other Garnet cindermen received runner-up laurels. John Stimmel (alias \the Garnet Greyhound\) turned in a crisp 54.7 to finish second in the 400 meter event, while frosh Bob Stelmack burned a 1 :12.2 500 meters, also good for second. Garry Wells chipped in with a sizzling 7.3 seconds in the hurdles, while Denny Contois cruised to a 2:03 half for another silver medal performance. Weightman Brad Kline placed second in the 35lb. weight event with a heave of 13.96 meters. ' Several other Union tracksters netted places in the meet for the Dutchmen. Ed Arnheiter strode to a 9:01 3,000 meter time for a third place, while Denny Contois notched a third in the 1,500 meters, with a scorching 4:06.3. Bob. Pavacic snared another bronze with a heave of 14.04 meters in the shot. Dave Dellehunt and captain Jack Connor con· tributed to the team effort with third and fourth place finishes in the 1,000 meter event. Connor also turned in a snappy 2:02 clocking to highlight a. third place finish by the Garnet two 'mile relay team. After the meet, Connor quipped, \You can can it cliche, but this team gave 110 percent today from start to finish.\ Head track coach Chuck James noted he was pleased with the team's performance and pointed out that 18 of 25 Dutch· men entered in the meet grabbed a spot in the top four places. James also tbought it was a possibility that the team could \ambush\ some of the Division I teams up the road. The cindermen, now sporting a record of 4-5 for the campaign, clash with Siena, Albany State and archnemesis RPI this Saturday. Meet time is scheduled for 2 p.m. at the Fieldhouse. A week later, the team takes a real tiger by the tail when it travels to Hanover, N.H., to confront Di\':ision I teams Dartmouth, Brown and Columbia. Physicals for Spring Sports will be given Sun., Feb. 15 at 7:30 p.m. in Achilles Rink. chmen goalie Mike Merlo played a very strong game, kicking out 50 shots. Last Thursday, the Dutchmen travelled to Holy Cross, where they were humiliated 13-2 by the Crusaders. Despite the large discrepance in the_scoring, the Dutchmen played a much stronger game than the 11-goal spread indicates. Picking up Union's goals were defensemen Al Dilibero and Ben Maynard. The Dutchmen's next home game is Friday night when they host Merrimack. The club's final home · game comes next Tuesday, when they face off against Potsdam. Hockey Preview: Varsity Hockey Feb. 13 Merrimack Feb. 17 Potsdam J.V. Hockey Feb. 17 Avon Old Farms School Varsity Basketball Feb. 13 at Middlebury Feb. 16 Albany J. V. Ba sketbatl Varsity Wrestling Women's Basketba.ll Feb. 18 at Binghamton Feb. 12 Skidmore Feb. 14 at R PI Feb. 16 AI ba ny Feb. 18 a.t Binghamton Feb. 17 Colgate Feb. 13 at LeMoyne Feb. 16 at North Adams Face Merrimack, Potsdam By DOUG SiLVERSTEIN The ancient philosopher Lowell once said that \pride and weakness are Siamese twins.\ How better can one descrive the Dutchmen hockey season, one filled with obvious gaps and inefficiencies, however, also filled with a sense of what I call institutional kinship. Union cannot make the ,playoffs, but it can build for next year. This next week features Garnet home games against Merrimack and Pot- sdam State, two teams that eagerly await the contests as building blocks towards post- season play. Merrimack's three leading scorers, 'fpm Lawler, Mickey Rego, and Steve Arnold (54, 42, and 40 points, respectively), have together twice as many points as Todd Fobare, Don Beall, and Joe Caruso, the three top Garnet scorers .. This is not to degrade the Dutchmen three,. for each have had outstC~nd.ing seasons, however, the com- parison does put light on the difference between the offenses of the two clubs. The Dutchmen record of 5-17-1 is incomparable to Merrimack's record of 13-14 (including 13-5 in Division II). Despite these facts, if the Dutchmen can get the forechecking of Dave Belinski, Kyle Woodman, andFobare like they did in the Colgate game, the Union six could possibly shut off Merrimack's scoring demons. Defensively, Merrimach features the steady backline duo of Fred Moynihan and Tom Geignan. Included in the Bill Mason fights for puck defensive corps are the steady Jim Marchioni and Bob Benson. Goalie Frank Bonaventure supports an average of 4.09 goals against, not that unim- pressive for Division I and II hockey. Union awaits the return of Brian Shea, Brad Nicholson, and Bill Mason in order to allow Bill Wall to return to defense. Also, a return of defenseman Bob Antonucci would help Union tremendously. These two teams approach this game from a different angle. Merrimack is drawing closer towards the Division II playoffs, unlike the Dutchmen. Merrimack Coach Bruce Parker described the upcoming game as \one of the games that terrify me\ because often a team can get overconfident when playing a team with the record Union supports. He claimed that throughout the week he will \warn his team of the pitfalls of unmer~ted con- fidence.\ Merrimack comes to Achilles Rink very healthy with a ba~}9_gg Qf~Q~Y~hm_I_battles that have made them a much better team. Potsdam State, according to Sports Information Director John Oliphant, is in the building process of a relatively new program, similar to that of Union. Their overall record is 9- 11, with an ECAC record of 6-11. Due to injuries and the inex- perience of eleven fres~unen on the varsity squad, the team has won only two games since the December break. They come to Union with a chance at the playoffs, since a .500 record in Division II can easily qualify a team. Leading scorers for Potsdam are Denny and Pierre Marcoux, who have accumulated 39 and 32 points in 20 games, respec- tively. Pierre Marcoux: ranks right aboue Union's Todd Fobare in the standings of Division II West leading scorers. The Potsdam offense was beleaguered in January due to the loss of three of the team's four centers, but has been regaining each of their services and accord-ing to Oliphant, could all be ready for the game against the Garnet. Top defensemen include Keitb Wisner and Brett Low, who defend for goalie Randy Brown, who has a GAA of around five goals per game. He has an 85 percent save per- centage, and often faces 40 to 50 shots per game. Union rooters should remember his out- standing performances against the Dutchmen the past two years, in which he contributed heavily to two Potsdam vic- tories. ·Potsdam, according to Oliphant, ''feels optimistic about their chances\ to make it to the Division II playoffs. The team \has made remarkable steps\ this year and represents \the best team the school has ever had.\ Union, on the other hand, is a confusing story that will end when the playoffs begin. The Dutchmen have been confined to the role of spoilers, an often precarious and carefree .position to be in. So for now, the Dutchmen skate away on the thin ice of a disappointing season.

..... ... Page 12 OONOORDIENSIS~ February 1S 1 .1981 sports Cagers Continue to Sky By JOHN JAROSA:K The Union basketball team finally got back to the .500 mark and retained that plateau by winning two out of three during the past week. Last Thursday the Dutchmen improved tlleir record to 8-8 by beating Hamilton College, 64-54. Displaying the sarne patient offense and stingy defense that carried the Garnet to their upset victory over Rochester, Union opened a 10-point lead halfway through the second half. The Dutchmen maintained this lead by connecting on 15 of 18 free throws in the closing stages of the game. Union was led by Joe Cardany with 19 points and John Montanile with 16 points aAd 8 rebounds. Over the weekend, the Dut- chmen travelled to Elmira for a tournament involving Elmira, Mansfield St., and York College. Union had the misfortune of drawing peren- nially tough Mansfield State in the opening round. The Division II squad was too much for Union, as they triwnphed 84-72. The Dutchmen started off slowly and fell behind by as many as 25 in the second half. However, led by the .scoring of Joe Cardany (34 points)~ the Garnet came back to only 7 points down but could not Skiers Do Well By INGEMAR The Union Ski Team captlll\ed fifth place in the combined Alpine and Nordic .standings last weekend when twelve Division II colleges sent their ski teams to compete in Cornell University's Invitational Ski CarniJTal The team from Cornell won the weekend's contests. Clarkson College finished second; .. Colgate finished third; R.P .I. fourth, ahead of Union by only five place points. Current place point standings indicate the Union racers will be com- peting with Army and R.P .I. for a spot among the ten teams chosen from New York, Ver- mont~ Massachusetts, and Maine to race in the Division II Eastern Championships when they are held at West Mountain Feb. 20 and 21. Since the beginning of the season, the Union Alpine squad has demonstrated its ability to place racers consistently among the top · ten finishers. Last weekend was no exception. In the Giant Slalom, Fred Tbimm produced a virtuallY. flawless race to win first place. Tom Sargent conquered Greek Peak's steep and icy terraine to finish eighth. Junion Jeff Ince, who has improved at every competition, last weeker).d secured a ninth place finish in the Giant Slalom and in the Slalom as well. The remarkable story behind Union's fifth place finish at Cornell is that it was not the Alpine team who scored the most points for the Dutchmen. For the first time in Union's history the cross country racers kep~.the te~m _in the top five pos1tton wh1ch IS so critical at this stage in the intercollegiate competition if Union is to continue on to the Eastern Championships. In the 15 km cross-country ski competition at Cornell, fresh- man Kent Avery finished a hard-fought lOth, earning himself _a place among the league's toughest competition. Exploiting his incredibiel strength of muscle, Mark Arienti has steadily improved throughout the season. At Cornell, Arienti battled a tor- tuous 7.5 km to finish third in the Relay event. In the 15 km race, Arienti placed 16th. Colleen Morris and Donna Morris bettered more than half the field to finish 24th and 26th, respectively. The two Morris sisters will be competing next weekend at Colgate, hoping to be chosen to represent Division 11 West at the women's championships at Williams College in late February. Rod McClain bet- tered his previous week's time for the 15 km race ..:by seven minutes. With every race he becomes even more of an asset to the Union Nordic squad. This weekend will be the deciding factor for the Union ski team. If the Alpine and Nordic racers can put it all together, the Union ski team will be on their way to the Division II United States Eastern Cham- pionships. overcome the potent Mansfield State squad. · The Dutchmen 'fared better in the consolation game Sunday against York, prevailing 75-55. Despite another slow start, the Dutchmen easily subdued the tv undisciplined York team, as E every team member .got into the ..3 scoring column. Cardany Q) topped off a terrific tournament ~ .... by pacing Union with 24 points. en John Montanile added 10 points E for the Dutchmen. o On Friday, the Dutchmen ] travel to Middlebury in search Cl of improving their playoff hopes. Joe Uvegeas takes the shot Athlete .of the Week: ' '-~ Cardany to be Honored Joe Cardany, Union College's Division III All-American candidate, is now 12 points away from setting a new alltime Dutchmen scoring record. Going into Wednesday night's game at Hartwick College, Cardany, a 5·11, senior guard from J?lattsburgh, has · 1,620 career points. Jim Tedisco, a guard who played from 1969 until 1972 at Union, currently holds the record of 1,632. Union's next home game will be on Monday, February 16, against Capital District rival Albany State in what will be \Joe Cardany Day\ at Union. At that game, Tedisco is scheduled to be on hand to present Cardany with a plaque .for his accomplishment. Car- dany's .fraternity, Sigma Chi, will make a donation to the College's general scholarship fund in his honor. Union President John S. Morris and members of Sigma Chi will present Cardany with the check. A Pep Band is also scheduled to be on hand. As a freshman (the 1977-78 season), Cardany became the top all-time freshman scorer in Union history with 316 points, second highest total on the team that year. He played in 22 of the team's 23 games and connected on 135 of 301 field g9als ( 44.9 pct.) while hitting 46 of 62 free throws (74.2 pet.). He pulled in 38 rebounds, handed out 48 assists and averaged 14.4 points for the year. He was also an all- star selection for both the Capital District and Platt- sburgh Basketball Tour- naments. In his sophomore season (1978-79), Cardany was selected the team's captain by his teammates and led the Dut- chmen in scoring with 471 points. He played in all 25 games while hitting 198 out of 410 field goal attempts .( 48.2 pet.) with 75 free throws in 104 tries (72.1 pet.). He pulled in 63 rebounds, handed out 63 assists and finished the year with an 18.8 scoring average. For his efforts, Cardany was selected as a first-team Eastern College Athletic Conference All-Star and was voted Union's Most Valuable Player. He was again selected to the Capital District Basketball Tournament's All,. Star team. Cardany again led Union in scoring as a junior with 495 points. He played in all 24 games and hit 198 of 408 field goal chances ( 48.5 pet.) and 99 of 129 free throws (76.5 pet.). His rebounds totaled 85 and his assists 72. He scored 20.6 points a game for the 1979-80 season. Cardany was elected to the ECAC's Weekly All.Star team five times during the year and was again elected team captain and voted to the Capital District Basketball Tournament's All- Tournament Team. He became only the fourth Union player in the 77-year history of basketball at the school to break the 1,000 point mark. free throws. He has 58 rebounds, 65 assists and 338 points. For his career (with six games remaining in the season including the Hartwick contest) Carda,ny has played in 89 of 90 games while hitting 680 of 1,427 field goals ( 4.7. 7 pet.) and 260 of 348 free throws (7 4. 7 pet.). He - has 244 rebounds, 248 assists, 1,620 points and a career scoring average of 18;2. Cardany. is also an out- standing student and president of the Sigma Chi Fraternity. A Political Science major, Car· dany bas a 3.4 out of a possible 4.0 cumulative grade average. He is a member of the Big Brothers program, the Pre-Law Society, an Intra-fraternity Council representative, a member of the International Relations Club and Amnesty International. This past week Joe Cardany performed brilliantly in leading the rejuvenated Dutchmen basketball team to an out- standing week. Last Tuesday night; Feb. 4~ in Union's upset victory over the University of Rochester, the nwnber two ranked Division III team in the nation, Joe netted 14 points. Joe was also in- strumental in the cagers' upset of Hamilton College (14-3), when he scored 19 polnts. Over the weekend, the hoopers engaged in the 8th Annual Elmira Basketball Tournament. Union drew Division II Mansfield State in the opening round, and Cardany tallied a career high 34 points. The senior guard came back in the consolation .game to tally 24 points against CUNY York, in a 75-55 victory on Sunday. Swimmers Take Dive At the start of this year (1980- 81) Cardany was again elected team captain, making him the first three-year captain of a major sport in Union's history. He has been selected to the ECAC's Weekly All..Star team four times and was voted to the Capital District Basketball Tournament's All-Tourney team for the fourth consecutive season. He was also voted to the Elmira Tournament's All- Tourney team. Through the first 15 games of this season, Cardany leads the team in scoring with 18.8 points per game while connecting on 149 of 3()8 field attempts and 40 of 53 In the four games Cardany shot a sterling 61 percent from the field (40-66) and 85 percent from the line (11-13). He also added 16 assists and 11 rebounds. The Union swim team hoped to play the role of giant:killer as it met New Paltz and .Hamilton Colleges last week. Unfor- tunately, the swimmers wound up as sacrifices, dropping both meets to run their record to 2-5. Coach Magee's tiny but in- trepid anny tl·avelled to New Paltz to duel a psyched-up team that had lost only one meet all season. Further stacking the odds against Union was the fact that the Hawks were defending Metropolitan Champions, and had not lost a meet at home in three years. New Paltz was able to swim three and four .people in each event. The Hawks' quality and quantity wore down Union, and the result was a 66-31> loss. Stellar performances were turned in by Captain Andy Berquist and Steve Jacobs. Both had season bests in their respective events, the 1,000 yard freestyle and the 200 yard backstroke. Harry Walkoff swam a strong butterfly leg in the opening relay. Chris Meyer won tbe 200 yard backstroke, and diver Johanna Briggs copped a first and a second. The swimmers' families were invited to Schenectady to watch the meet against Hamilton, and to share in a reception im- mediately following the meet. According to an inside source, the quality of refreshments to be served at the reception was dependent upon the team's performance. To illustrate bow the meet went, refr~shments at the reception consiSted of stale potato chips and pretzels and canned soda. Union finished on the short side of a 65-42 count. There were some bright spots, h~wever. Kyle Cotugno achieved victories in· the 200 yard individual medlay and the 100 yard freestyle. Sharon Pearl (200 yard butterfly), Marabeth Soltis (100 free and 100 but- terfly) and Andy Berquist (500 ... yard free) swam well also. :g Chris Meyer won the 200 yard ffi backstroke, establishing a _~ Union College Foote Memorial ~ Pool record. Meyer swam tbe &i distance in 2:10.75 1 breaking his > own mark of 2:11.1, set last .c 0 year. . 15 The swimmers complete their -£_ regular season with away meets at Hobart and Cobleskill. Athlete of the Week Joe Cardany

s 58 338 six of 90 1,427 260 of .). He ssists, out- A Car- erage. Big a sty out- b. 4~ in the the III 14 in- ' upset the 8th drew in points. in 24 in a from also nd 11 .... Q) <JI· 0 .... dl >- , c: ~ >- ..0 0 0 -a SAC member Brian Marks February 19, 1981 Volume 110, Number 15 Student Affairs Counci I Decides: . . Liquor Survey Postponed By SUE BLOOMBERG A subeouncil to the Student Affairs Council (SAC), which deals with liquor policies and alcohol ahuse on campus recently decided to postpone indefinitely a campus survey on alcoliol consumption. This survey was intended to provide some useful data for consideration by campus governance bodies in developing liquor policies. The idea was rejected because it was felt by the subcouncll that .campus perceptions at this time· are awkward and might lead to biased answers. Ruth Ann Evans eXplained at an RA meeting on Wednesday, Feb.ll, that \at this point it is a waste of time and couldn't be seen as non-threatening.\ The subcouncH seems ap- prehensive about the survey because it appears that many students fear prohibitory policies. Biased answers would be a factor to consider before any survey is done on this issue. The general consensus of RA's on campus, articulated by John Pietrangelo, head RA of Davidson, is that \people wouldn't come out seriously in a questionnaire.'' commonalities exist in liquor policies in all institutions. Most significant is the adherence to New York State Law. Intellectual Cabaret Revived The recently developed subcouncil of the SAC will have to take into account the \in- stitutional point of view, as well as the student view,\ according to Brian Marks, a member ,of the subcouncil. In its workings, the subcouncil has to consider methods of encouraging responsible drinking, dealing with Pub and Skellar specials and more .importantly, for- mulating a liquor policy under the new governor's system that will be beneficial to both the institution and the student. It has to be remembered that the school's liability is at stake. Presently, the subcouncil is looking at ,reports from Colgate University for comparison. The Colgate policy on alcoholic beverages requires the following guidelines to be followed: Ne:w York State laws regarding sale, purchase, distribution and consumption must be observed, ad- vertisement should not create an impression concerning alcoho'lic beverages, when alcoholic beverages are served, non-alcoholic beverages must be served as well, individuals must not be coerced to drink alcoholic beverages under any conditions, and consumption of alcohol will not excuse a person from legal or disciplinary consequences. An enforcer of this policy is the Colgate University Com- mittee for Responsible Drinking which is composed of students By JILL BRYCE Going to Cabaret on Thursday night, sipping wine, and listening to some friends per- form· is an experience which many Union students have enjoyed. Monday night, a dif- ferent type of Cabaret will be held: an Intellectual Cabaret. Although the setting will be the same, the format will differ. Intellectual Cabaret will be a forum for the exchange of ideas. It will focus on the eXpression and comparison of opinions between students, faculty, and administration. Nancy Velardi, a junior Chemistry major, and · Scott Adams, a freshman Political Science-Economics major, have been working together to resurrect Intellectual Cabaret. They explain . that the Intellectual Cabaret will invite people who are experts in a specific field to come in and give their viewpoint. Students will then express their personal opinions. Emphasis will be on student partiCipation. Nancy and Scott believe that by giving students , .the op- portunity_to exp~s·s\their ideas, they will better understand and foster their own opinions. Students will be able to put their ideas to the test of others. They will be able to exchange and compare viewpoints because the Cabaret will be an informal discussion rather than a lecture format. Intellectual Cabaret existed here several years ago but eventually lost the initial en- thusiasm it had enjoyed as a new group. Nancy and Scott are' resurrecting it and hope it will develop an mterest in issues among students. Nancy's in- terest in Intellectual Cabaret stems from the fact-that she believes \It's so easy to·· get isolated from the rest of the world when you're in college. We're trying to develop an interest and an understanding of national and international issues.\ · To determine what issues Union students were most :in- terested in, a poll was taken. Of the 180 students who answered the survey the top five issues were: Nukes vs. NoNukes, U.S. Foreign Policy, Existence of God, Moral Ethics and Civil Rights. Eventually Nancy and Scott expect that each of these will serve as the topic of an Intellectual Cabaret. This term, Intellectual ·Cabaret will be held the eighth and ninth week but in spring term it will be held every other Monday night, in the Cabaret room. Refreshments will be served and there is no ad- mission fee. The first Intellectual Cabaret will take place Monday starting at 9 p.m. The topic will be U.S. Foreign Policy on Soviet ex- pansion and the speakers will be Tri-Delta: Prof. Clifford Brown, Prof. Charles Gati, and Prof. Stephen C. Pelletiere, each an expert in this field. Nancy and Scott hope that Intellectual Cabaret will serve as an effective form for the exchange of ideas. Scott's ex- pectations for Intellectual Cabaret is that ''ideally students, faculty and ad- ministration will come to hear other people's opinions', speak their own, and end up with well rounded opinions on any given topic.\ In search for an ad- vantageous liquor policy and ways of encouraging the responsible drinker, the sub- council \is particularly in- terested in what other schools in New York State are doing,\ according to Ruth Ann Evans. A comparison of Colgate, RPI, Syracuse University and Alfred University shows that some SororityS Housing Explored By A.J. BRODSKY The 55 new pledges of Delta Delta Delta sorority will face a major problem next year. As most are aware, there is presently a shortage of on- campus housing for women. Attempting to find adequate facilities to house this new sorority will be a major issue facing the housing ad- ministration. · David L. Wood, Director of Residence Ufe here, pointed out that this problem was explained to the National organization for the \Tri-Delts.\ The maximum number that could be housed together was set at 32 to 36. Mr. Wood was very evasive when asked about what specific options are being deliberated at the moment. He said that ''the options are still being weighed out and the possibilities are still in the planning stage.!' When questioned about the overall problem for women, Wood responded that the problem has not reached the \critical point.\ The ad- ministration is still able to get by through using such tactics as changing the male-female compositions of dormitory ~. floors. When the possibility . of ~ building a new facility was ...1 interjected into the . con- ~ versation, Mr. Wood said that ,e \no drastic changes\ are being (/) discussed. . ~ Jane . Wood, Union's ~ Panhellenic Adviser, em- _g phasized that the Tri-Delta c. organization understands the problem. In response to the flurry of rumours circulating around campus, Ms. Wood states that ''no big upset\ in housing will occur. She offered no specifics, as again the ad- ministration is keeping all pertinent information under its hat. The Field Secretary for Tri- Delta, who is helping to establish this new organization at Union is Sally Click. Ms. Click is presently staying at Delta Gamma, and she will remain on-campus until the end of this term, in order to set up a working structure for the Tri- Delts. Presently, Ms. Click is supervising the election of leaders for the sorority, which is to take place next Sunday. Ms. Click is most aware of the problem facing the group. She explained that having the women live together is not the prime objective of her organization. \The development of comraderie among the women is the prime objective,\ M§. Click said. This is established through social activities, with the possible living experience as a bonus. Ms~ Click wants ''to get Tri- Delt's feet on the ground, our other problem is secondary.\ She further noted that only one pledge currently lives off campus, so there is no great increase in numbers to deal with. Ms. Click added that her women were promised some kind of housing and will have to accept what is given. Some seniority system will be , established giving the upper classwomen first choice of whatever housing will be given. Tri-Delta sisters congregate at home varsity basketball game. · and Administrators. Its goals are to review existing practices of alcohol use and abuse at Colgate, as well as recommend courses of action and programming to insure that alc.ohol use is kept in per- spective. It also works to publicize services available to members of the community in order to minimize alcohol abuse. RPI' s liquor policy requires all students interested in having an on-campus party to obtain a permit, signed by the RA, which verfies that a non-alcoholic beverage will be served and that the party will take place for no longer than a four~hour period. Fraternities are not on campus property, and therefore are not required to have a permit, unless they hold an on- campus function. Permits are also required at Syracuse University, with the stipulation that non-alcoholic beverages and food will be served. Residence Halls have specific guidelines, most notably, no publicity promoting alcohol at parties, . pre- registr(!tion of events and en- ding of weekend parties by 1:30 to 2: a.m. Along with this, all alcoholic beverages for parties are received through the school, so negotiable amounts of liquor are required. The liquor policy at Alfred University is more restrictive. While they also require party permits, which include serving non-alcoholic beverages and food like many other campuses, they do not allow any beer balls at f!ny time, kegs are not · allowed in rooms, and bar- tenders must serve at parties. The amount of beer at a party is negotiable, depending on the number of people attending. Continue<t on page 4 ATTENTION ALL UPPER CLASS MEN Beginning this weekend, Saturday, February 21, Hale House will be closed for weekend meals. West College will remain open and will ac- commodate all students. Hale House will be open during finals weekend.

Page 2 OONOORDIEI!VSIS, Febrw:try 19, 1981 Editorial: Lea;d, Don't Follow Regulation of drinking and drinking policies is almost always certain to draw fire. One has only to look back at the national Prohibition era and the reaction it evoked to get an idea of the touchiness of th.is subject. The intent .of any restrictions that are placed on alcohol consumption--be it inside or outside the College gates--is, presumably, to protect the better interestsof.society in general by making certain that individuals wno consume liquor don't pose a threat or infringe on others' rights and privileges. So far, so good. When it starts getting to specifics, however, this rationale gets. into trouble. So it was that the College administration's decision to eliminate Tuesday night drink specials in'the Pub and the 'Skellar, made late in the fall term and spearheaded by Dean of Students Robert H. Kellett and Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas J. D'Andrea, was greeted with noticeable distaste--especially from the student ~~ & We didn't particularly like that restriction and have said so. Our aversion, however, came not so much as a vesult of the policy decision itself--after all, booze is still readily available at low prices on campus every night of the week--but, rather, was directed at the manner in which the decision was reached. Simply stated, student opinion did not appear to have been invited. Because students are the ones who have been most affected, this plan of action seemed counterproductive to whatever goals it was intended to reach. That's because its manner of being reached was likely to cause alienation. Thankfully, the Students Affairs Council (SAC) is presently working to remedy that shortcoming. The council is preparing a survey of student attitudes and practices with regard to drinking that will be used in formulating a campus-wide policy for these affairs. (See story, page 1. ) Such a policy is long overdue., we think. But, as with other alcohol-related cases, the key con- siderationnow is the drawing up of the specifics, in a fashion that will be acceptable to most members of the campus community. A survey such as the one the SAC is formulating should provide a good starting place in determining the direction of these specifics. Of critical importance is the content of the survey. We hope the SAC will take this into careful con- sideration. At the same time, though, we urge the- council not to use the time necessary to work out these details as an excuse for delaying distribution of the survey. ' Similarly, we hope that the SAC won't delay the questionnaire because it is uncertain of the manner in which students will regard it. It's a safe assumption that students will take such a survey seriously. After all, they're the ones who will feel the brunt of its consequences. When it's explained to them, as SAC members nave explained to us, that the purpose of the survey and any campus~ wide policy that may ensue is not to arbitrarily limit on-campus liquor consumption, but, rather, is to regulate its use, to the benefit of the community as a whole, students, we think, will take heed. =concor0ien5is Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editors Arts Editors Photo Editor Sports Editors Sports Photo Editor Layout Editor Business Manager Advertising Manager Subscriptions Editor Calendar Editor Staff Photo Staff Jhn Davis, Julie Isgro Paul Grossman Joe Maguire Naomi Blank D. Booth, Judi Chervenak Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Richard A. Sher' Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott St~ve Lerner Rachel I. Mandel Jeff Scardino Neil Rosenbaum Ellen Berger Maria Manfredonia Mindy Broser, Claire Burchill, Charis Richards Kent Avery, Mindy Broser, Charis Richards, Michael J. Elkins Calligraphy Claire Btn'chill CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by .the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publicatiom, Inc., 11 DivisionStreet;Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate:· 35 cents P\' copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere In the United States. · CONCORDIENSJS subscribes to the College Press Service.

Page 2 CONOORDIENSIS 1 February 19, 1981 Editorial: Lead, Don't Follow Regulation of drinking and drinking policies is almost always certain to draw fire. One has only to look back at the national Prohibition era and the reaction it evoked to get an idea of the touchiness of this subject. The intent of any restrictions that are placed on alcohol consumption--be it inside or outside the College gates--is, presumably, to protect the better interests of society in general by making certain that individuals who consume liquor don't pose a threat or infringe on others' rights and privileges. So far, so good. When it starts getting to specifics, however, this rationale gets into trouble. So it was that the College administration's decision to eliminate Tuesday night drink specials in'the Pub and the 'Skellar, made late in the fall term and spearheaded by Dean of Students Robert H. Kellett and Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas J. D'Andrea, was greeted with noticeable distaste--especially from the student body. We didn't particularly like that restriction and have said so. Our aversion, however, came not so much as a vesult of the policy decision itself--after all, booze is still readily available at low prices on campus every night of the week--but, rather, was directed at the manner in which the decision was reached. Simply stated, student opinion did not appear to have been invited. Because students are the ones who have been most affected, this plan of action seemed counterproductive to whatever goals it was intended to reach. That's because its manner of being reached was likely to cause alienation. ThankfuUy, the Students Affairs Council (SAC) is presently working to remedy that shortcoming. The council is preparing a survey of student attitudes and practices with regard to drinking that will be used in formulating a campus-wide policy for these affairs. (See story, page 1.) Such a policy is long overdue, we think. But, as with other alcohol-related cases, the key con- sideration now is the drawing up of the specifics, in a fashion that will be acceptable to most members of the campus community. A survey such as the one the SAC is formulating should provide a good starting place in determining the direction of these specifics. Of critical importance is the content of the survey. We hope the SAC will take this into careful con- sideration. At the same time, though, we urge the council not to use the time necessary to work out these details as an excuse for delaying distribution of the survey. Similarly, we hope that the SAC won't delay the questionnaire because it is uncertain of the manner in which students will regard it. It's a safe assumption that students will take such a survey seriously. After all, they're the ones who will feel the brunt of its consequences. When it's explained to them, as SAC members have explained to us, that the purpose of the survey and any campus-wide policy that may ensue is not to arbitrarily limit on-campus liquor consumption, but, rather, is to regulate its use, to the benefit of the community as a whole, students, we think, will take heed. . .. =concoroien518 Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editors Arts Editors Photo Editor Sports Editors Sports Photo Editor Layout Editor Business Manager Advertising Manager Subscriptions Editor Calendar Editor Jim Davis, Julie Isgro Paul Grossman Joe Maguire Naomi Blank D. Booth, Judi Chervenak Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos. Richard A. Sher Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Steve Lerner Rachel I. Mandel Jeff Scardino N e i1 Rosenbaum Ellen Berger Maria Manfredonia Staff Mindy Broser, Claire Burchill, Charis Richards Photo Staff Kent Avery, Mindy Broser. Charis Richards, Michael J. Elkins Calligraphy Claire Burchill CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by .the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady·, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susqueh!mna Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. ------Le Notes Cd,mpus Grofitti To the Editors: I An incident oce'Urred this past week which I feel must be brought to the atte11Uon of the campus comrnWlity. A Hillel poster advertising ()ur Tri·City Kallah weekend w~ hanging in the all-night study and was defaced with eKplieit anti- semitic ideas indading words like: H.Jewroast: Bring your own Jew,\ ~•annihilation campsn anrl ~·gas chambers.\ I write this letter ll()t to impose blame ·or to id~ntify certain individuals as anii.Semite~ but to make this eam:ptiB aware that such ignorant hatr~d exists at Union. It is inclltnbent upun us. especially as rn.11mbers of an institutiun of higher learning. to recognize the eld::;tenc:e of these remarks and at the same time .· t6 repudiate their . 'Claims. The graffiti was n(lt onl:y repugnant to us, as Jews, but offensive to all men and w-orn-en who are disgusted by any form of religious or ractal 'hatred. The anti-Semitie comments which were ahnet! at wea~temng us, as Jews. served only to strengthen Gur ldentifieation ' with the Jewish commtuti:ty and to reaffirm om commitment to stand up against · sueb in-- sensitive and''eftlel acts~ Sine~relyl Ric~ A. Sitnqnsf '31 fre$idf'nt, Jewisb. .Stud!:Ult Crganizl!ttioo .I{illel Jazz Concert Feb. 27 To the Editors; Do you know how good the 19004U Union ~a~ Ensemble is? If not} why dbntt y(l.u ask the p~ple who attended the concert last teM!~ I£ you ean't.find any of the ludcy few audience members, let 11S answer it for you. · We are memtlers \'! the all new Union J~ l!t$!ltbble. TUl$ year we have illl nt\iv s9fll'~ and . a new. eGtt.dtt()tar~ .. .ilf!tk~ SCott. · Under Mike's dirdi<ln the band is excelling far beyond last however, I have .noticed three instance& in ·which aleohol is being used as i:peentive to m0.tivate student$ toparUcipaJe: in no&aeadetnie· aetivit.i¢S. Ji'{lr example ( nd there ~¢·nne or two). a keg was awarded to each of three winners of tbe blood donating <lont~st; two kegs went to the loudest and most populated cheering sec .. tion at Monday 1 s game ~gliio$ Albany State; a whupping ten: · kegs wer.e granted t.o the vari.Q.us winners of Trivia; ll:nd! to top off the list with a bit of flare. a bottle of champagne awaits the person who can m~t creatively and.. appropriately renaQle the Ca~ret Room. . .. Now doesn 1 t there seem to ~ a euntradiction in pnll.:Cy? If ~he pusitil)n of the administratfort i& one which favors a check on student alcohol consumption~ then they should remain con~ sistent in theory and in practice. If alcohol is a principal SOIH'ce of student destruction and of academic deterioration, then why is it al~ro used t:W bait to attraet student involvement in activities? Personally. I do not object to trying to get students involved in .such activities. In fact, I am all in favor of it. Bow~ver, there is no doubt tbat <:onsiste11cy> in policy and pr.aetiee should be established. .. · · · Whydon~t they give .away free pi2zM ()f,sotnetbing? (No .of .... fense, Bob.) · · ···· · ··· - Bl,o·t·to· Boasted To the Editor.s: In response to Ra.pqy Clark's letter in last wt:ek;s Ccin .. eord,;jenai;S r¢garcting the ~wening with Blottl) in; .. ~ll.tmni Gyn,. first g~t yuu.r • fads straight. It was the Sueial CoW)littee. with .. tb~ h~p of WRUC, and not · *e Obni:ert Co~ttee, .... tha~ ,~efiet1Ul. the . cr~~t for' the .very enJoyable evemng. · year's; and far beyond the expectations '()f tbi;S year. For the Winter Term (!oncerl,., to he held on Friday, Feb. 27, the scores being played include charts by S'Ueh !famo~s jlJU artists as CoUllt Baste~ and songs by n()t•so.famous jazz artist as Frallk Zappa. · $till not eot1vi11ced'? Wfiy not come out and j1].dge f&l' yourself. Just stop by t~ M~murial Chapel on Feb. 27 at IJ:3'4J p.m. If you misa this concert, who knows when the next time you may catch us. ?<lr soon after the concert at Union1 we are off on a tour including ~Skidmore and several other ptae~s. As fal' as your thinking it was a joke, it happened w be one of the mQSt successful ev-ents in terms of attendance and en~ tbusiasm at Union C()llege. Granted, we all know that Blotto did not appear at Psi U last spring term~ however it was not free. · The Psi U brothers were the ones to bear the full cost for the concert and the liquQr. ~<mgh we di~ charge an adroisston price of $2, our goal was not to make a profit; but to minimi.ze lnsses. · See you all that evening. By the way, adrnisshn is free. Union Jazt Ensemble Ques1ions Campus Alcohol Practices To the Edit()rs: In reading through last week's CCJneoniiensis, I ob- served a particular irony that I think should be illuminated. Students administration have recentJLJ' eXJlreBS4ad cern · ~tu~de~\t. YGu also neglected to mention the fact that Blottt> ha$ gained' tremen<lous popularity since their last appearance here . and thus their fee bas irtereased significantly. We feel that the students responsihle for this event put a lot of time and effort into making it a successful and fun evening for an those who at· tended. So while we are receiving our pat on the back, you are the one wbo deser'l!es the swift· kick in the ass. In the future~ . if YQU have any suggestions please try to find a little time to attend Social Committee meetings at 7: 30 Monday evenings. in Carnegie Han. Explained T(l the Editors: In last week's issue of Con· eon.tiensh a misunderstanding . re:gf;rdi;ng J,he purpose of an ~v..,~t s.ponsor.:ed by . the , WqlJ).~'s N~~W<lrk wa:s bruqbt to our attentu:tn. A letter tn the student body stated that we sp4n-sored a Hpro .. abo.rtion\ forum. This is not the ease. It is (!Vident by: the nature of the lettf:lr that the author did not attend tll~ forum. as he would have realiZed that it was as panel discussion. It was not pro aJ:Jortion but rather supporting · the 1973 Supreme Court .decision to allow women to make their own reproductive choices, which includes the individual's choice to have or not have an ab!lrth:m. The speakers dealt with the various social, ecilJlO':mic and political ratnificati(}:ns · uf this decision and the pQ$Sible effects of the 1900 electittn. The forum was not to. celebrate abnrtion; who in fact would celebrate an abor ... tion? . '!'be forum was to eelebrate fr~edotn of chniee. ~de from the fact that absolij.tely .. tlO: student funding went towards this event. we dct not QeJi~Y·e Jh~t it is an org~p.p;i · ll~s. function ··to CQ!l~i&t ·· pres~t both sldes of, each .ij)$JJ~. Im'l~ed, how .. ~n all ,;Q:rg~~gtipqs acoomplisl} tbi$o? D;q(t§ Amnesty .. Inter .. natiqn~;l.pt~$-~n.t the .side on ... tll.t't PA!i.~. q:£, gqverom~mt~ · taldn&. pri~uers <~f oonscience'r ... MuSt ev~ . ee$qQ9tiooa.J, activity , b~ pve:sent~tl as a · two,·sided . issua?.'l'be (orum provi{led infnl'1J}atiOtl,so .. tha.t the students attending could formulate their uwRPPinions-its purpose W{'lS tQ infoJ:;ln rather than to pers~e. We hope ij1at this letter. has served to clarify the mimm: derstanding. Respecttully, The Wu:ments Network AnAounces ·, o·~w. Party To the Ed~rs! U'ttfortwtately the H~ Bold'' . wumen have moved on to what are hopeiutly .greener pastures.. However, twG years later., their message is as true as ever. IQ. the past, we, the Brothers of Delta Upsilon, have been at times guilty of lacking the \self~ assurance, confidence~ or even respect to approachH the deserving women of Union. COllege. Although we are in rlo W.?Y tllone in this guilt, we .wGuld like to apologize for past in- discretions. We have come to the realizati()n that Union women hat~ a I~>' to offer. We have alsn come to reidize that the views held by the ~~ae Boldn women reflect tbtfSe of many Union wm:nen. We think these women are looking f!lr honest~ intimate relf.ltions:hips with mature men~ men Wllo are looking for the same kind of relatiqnshlp. Tho-se who characterize the \Be Bold'' · women as, sluts or shameless hussies fail to un .. der.stand their message ... We think we ,understand their message. We believe that Union women indeed have much to offer nnd are very worthy of our attention. We hope that Union W()tnen will deem us wGrthy of tneit .atten~ion.. On Friday, Feb. 20, Delta J.Ipsil<»n will have its

OONOORDIENSJS, Februa.ry 19~ 1981 Page 3 Student OP-inions Nationally.: .Contiriue Fi>nancial Aid Drift to ~Center By ROBERT J. MASSA Director of Financial Aid {CPS)-\As far as political labeling U; concerned,. students continue to move from left to center,\ says UCLA Professor Alex~ndder Astin· of the results · of his 15th annual survey of college freshmen·. •Of 291,000 freshmen questioned, 60 percent describe themselves as \middle of the road'; politically, which Astin says iS a record percen~age. Those calling themselves ''liberal to far left'' declined almost three points from last year, to -21'.7 . percent. The mnnber of conservatives rose to 18.3 percent from l7 percent. In tbe last .few years, the survey has found students to be increasingly concerned witb financial security, women's issues, and \obtaining recognition.'' Margo -King, assistant to Astin, notes that these trends continued this year, with \no new surpriSes.'' According to Union Director of F,inancial Aid Robert J. Massa,· about 40 percent of the students here receive scholarships from the College. When loans and jobs provided by the College are included, that percentage rises to about 48. Students receiving some kipd of financial aid; which. includes guaranteed loans and New York State Regents Scholarships, comprise about three-quarters of Union's student population, Massa SfUd, \Every year, more students· need,money,\ King said. ''AA.d every year each student needs more of it.\ King also indicated that fewer students in the last few years favor legalizing marijuana, abolishing college grades and 1 keeping abortions legal. If President ~eagan has his way, 500 Union students will receive about 25 percent less federal .grant money next year and roughly one-third of the College's 1,300 Guaranteed Loan borrowers will be ineligible for continued loan assistance. Tllis, in the wake of rising tultion costs here and every other college in the cotintry, is destined to happen unless students · and college officials combine their forces against unreasonable cuts. Although the President's budget proP.osals have yet to reach Congress at this writing, Washington sow:ces claim that Mr. Reagan Will ask for funds to support a maximum Basic Educational Opportunity Grant (BEOG) of only $1,350 instead of - Prof, SteQhen .Pelletle-re: the scheduled $1,900. Other funding alternatives include a pro-rated reduction in awards, where upper level grants would · remain fully funded, but lower awards would be cut in half. In 1980-81, Union has and will continue to certify _student eligibility for more than $3 million in Guaranteed Student Loans. The g()vernment hopes to save federal dollars in two major ways through changes in this program. The first would be to require students to repay the interest on the loans during their tiine in school (currently, the loans are interest-free until after graduation). Secondly, the White House is considering a propos~l which would reduce the special interest subsidy given' to banks to participating in the program. In times of 18 · percent interest rates, what bank would want to make 7 or 9 percent student loans without the differential currently provided by the government? We can make a difference! Union Presidept, JohnS. Morris has already written to Senators Moynihan and D' Amato, as well as ta several key Congressmen, indicating Union's opposition to th~ proposed reductions. As Director of Financial Aid, I am taking an active role in cooperating with our state and national associations to oppose these cuts. I urge you to write to our Senators and your Congressmen. Let them know your position. The only way we can influence congressionai actions is to inform those in decision\making ,positions of our feelings. Address your mail to either the House or Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510. Almost two-thirds (.63,3 percent). of this year's freshu men, compared to 44 percent in 1967 and 60 percent in 1978, say that \being very well-off financially\ is a very important goal in life. . Stay. Out of Iran As inflation balloons costs and restricts personal resources, continuance in college becomes more and more challenging. The need for a continued strong financial aid program, when Union's charges approach $9,000 per year, is essential. Every effort is made to provide assistance to students whose family resources are inadequate to meet the full cost. The College has increased its commitment to student aid once again for 1981-82. But the College alone cannot be responsible for funding financial aid. The Higher Education Act of 1980 authorized increases in just about every federal student aid program. With the new ad- ministration, however, these gains are being threatened. A slightly 'higher nllplber agree that a good re~;~son to go to college is \to be able to make more money.,- · As students' values change, Astin suggests, their career interests shift. · Women · show a greater ill- terest in traditionally male fields every year, he says. This year, 30 percent of the women quieded are now pursuing careers in b~J;siness, law, engineering; and medicine, which King calls the \male- dominated'' fields. At Union, 30 percent of the . students m<Uoring in engineering are females. Women make up 39 percent of biology and chemistry majors, 26 percent of political science majors, and 36 percent of the student body _as a whole. By contrast, the number of men pursuing careers in those four fields nationally is almost unchanged (from 49 percent on 1966 to 50 percent in 1979:) in the last 15 years. · Astin attributes these trends in part to the women's movement, which has in- fluenced both males · and females. This year, 93.3 .percent of the class of 1984 supported women's rights to equal.pay for equal work. Additionally, there was equally strong support of increased advancement op- portunities and a life outsidethe home for women. Although the most affluent freshmen still enroll at highly s~ective private universities (slightly less than half come from families making $40,000 or more per year), meeting tuition costs has 'become an in- creasingly big worry fer all students. Reliance, on federal Guaranteed Student Loans and Basic Educational Opportunity Grants (now called Pell Grants) rise dramatically ·each year, King notes. The United States could not have used military force to rescue 52 Americans held· in Iran because Iran is all that stands in the way of a direct confrontation between this coWltry and the Soviet Union, Union political science professor Stephen C. Pelleti~re says. And tmtil the U.S. develops a consistent and defensible foreign policy Jn the Middle East, ''the best thing we can do is not do anything,\ Prof. Pelletiere adds. ·· · A former Newsweek editor and Middle East correspondent, Pelletiere is an authority on Middle East politics and the growing crisis in the Persian Gulf. This term, he is teaching a· · course about the con- temporary politics of the area. For all intents and purposes, Pelletiere says, there has been no government in Iran since the· Ayatollah Khomeini took over. \The so-called Islamic revolution is fueled by passions \Which because they are so · intense, give the impression of - great purpose,\ Pelletiere said. \But in fact, behind the passion there is no substance. Various groups that took over have ·not yet settled amongst themselves who's going to lead.\ He added that the country will have no clear direction until this fight is resolved. In the meantime, i?elletiere notes, \it is in the best interests of the U.S. and Russia to pl·etend there is a government in Iran,\ because Iran acts as a buffer between the world's two super powers. \As soon as we, start to meddle in Iran, we run the risk . \ . of pcmicking the Russians and bringing about direct con- frontation. Then we could have a nuclear war\. What, then, can this country do to protect its interests in the Middle East? Two things, Pelletiere says. In the short run, the U.S. should develop a rfipid deployment force of up to 100,000 men that could be sent quickly to protect oil fields or face down a Russian threat. This will help demonstrate our will to the rest of the world, Pelletiere notes, but we should not be \deluded into thinking that this force is going to be a cure all.\· Ideally, he says, this rapid deployment force should be \highly visible and in an ex- cellent state of training, but never used.\ Current foreign policy in the Middle East is \schizophrenic ~ -- Right By JULIAN W. LUMEN Many of us here at Union believe in our politics. As many of us have seen, through ob- servation, the nation bas made a shift to the right wing. But is the right wing really the ''right'' wing? I'm not saying that it is or that it is not. What I'm actually saying in reality is that the right wing t>l.lould not be given a free handtodo Whatever it wants or pleases to. Where are the according to Pelletiere. \We're asking Arab nations not t~ give way to Russian blandishments, but we don't support them\ he says, adding, \You can't support Sadat, you can't sup- port Saudi Arabia, and you can't support Pakistan because the Russians are quite ready to support them.\ To solve this problem, Pelletiere believes the U.S. interests in the Middle East should be clearly defied. At the present time, he observes, \Most people don't appreciate the fact that the situation in the Persian Gulf is getting awfully close to the raw.\ This is in large part, he feels, because of a lack of understanding about the nature of a bi-polar world, in which the two super powers _ must ''keep ahead of each other without losing control of events.\ The battle is far from over, and i am confident that student financial aid will emerge with few losses. But ··your help is needed. Please write now, and feel free to stop in on the second floor of Becker Hall for periodic updates on the status of financial aid in Congress. on Red_ counter forces to keep an eye on the recently empowered right wing? This is what any government needs to make sure a faction does not become a near dictatorship. Whatever happened to the old radical line like Angela Davis, Abbie Hoffman, Eldridge Cleaver, The Chicago Seven, The MC5, The Fab Four. The Warsaw Pact and Tommy Smothers? I'd hate to look in the \Watergate mirror\ and see Alexander Haig staring me in the face. There are counter forces existing that don't receive any attention such as, the American Communist, the Socialist Workers, and the National Socialist Parties. And how about the ,Neutron BOMB?! It seems the right wing has let the one bat (nuclear power) out of hell! Often, I sometimes contemplate to myself, \Julian? What's the deal! Did not the bad Vibes radiate enough from the Three- Mile island ordeal? I feel we've traded \flower power\ for nuclear power. Where are those old-line radicals when we need them? Jane Fonda (China Syndrome, 'Tom Hayden and Barbarella) is not enough! Public interest in this issue is as missing as Jimmy Hoffa. Apathy is as prominent as urban cowboys. In re-capitulation; if Union pupils cared more about the issues, they (the pupils) would be less apathetic. Could the shift to the right, really be a shift in ·reverse? We can't stay- in neutral forever! I advocate we put FOUR on the floor, the pedal to the metal, and drive full \solar\ ahead into the future. Please see my angle in hand.

/ . OONOORDIENSIS, February 19, 1981 Page 3 Student Op.inions NationallY-: Continue Financial Aid Drift to Center By ROBERT J. MASSA Director of Financial Aid (CPS)-\ As far as political labeling is concerned, students continue to move from left to center,\ says UCLA Professor Alexandder Astin of the results of his 15th annual survey of college freshmen. Of 291,000 freshmen questioned, 60 percent describe themselves as 1 'middle of the road\ politically, which Astin says is a record percentage. Those calling themseives \liberal to far left'' declined almost three points from last year, to 21.7 percent. The number of conservatives rose to 16.3 percent from 17 percent. In the last few years, the survey has found students to be increasingly concerned with financial security, women's issues, and \obtaining recognition.'' Margo King, assistant to Astin, notes that these trends continued this year, with \no new surprises.\ According to Union Director of Financial Aid Robert J .. Massa, about 40 percent of the students here receive scholarships from the College. When loans and jobs provided by the College are included, that percentage rises to about 48. Students receiving some kind of financial aid, which includes guaranteed leans and New York State Regents Scholarships, comprise about three-quarters of Union's student population, Massa said. \Every year, more students need money,\ King said. \And every year each student needs more of it.\ King also indicated that fewer students in the last few years favor legalizing marijuana, abolishing college grades and keeping abortions legal. If President Reagan has his way, 500 Union students will receive about 25 percent less federal grant money next year and roughly one-third of the Col1lege's 1,300 Guaranteed Loan borrowers will be ineligible for continued loan assistance. This, in the wake of rising tuition costs here and every other col'lege in the country, is destined to happen unless students and college officials combine their forces against unreasonable cuts. Although the President's budget proposals have yet to reach Congress at thls writing, Washington sources claim that Mr. Reagan will ask for funds to support a maximum Basic Educational Opportunity Grant (BEOG) of only $1,350 instead of Prof .. SteP-hen Pell.etiere: the scheduled $1 ,900. Other funding alternatives include a pro-rated reduction in awards, where upper level grants would remain fully funded, but lower awards would be cut in half. In 1980-81, Unioa has and will continue to certify . student eligibility for more than $3 million in Guaraateed Student Loans. The government hopes to save federal dollars in two major ways. through changes in this program. The first would be to require students to repay the interest on the loans during their time ia schaol (currently, the loans are interest-free until after graduation). Secondly, the White Hause is considering a proposal which would reduce the special interest subsidy given to banks tlil participating in the program. In times of 18 percent interest rates, what tank woul.d want to make 7 or 9 percent student loans without the differential currently provided by the government? We can make a difference! Unian President, John S. Morris has already written to Senators Moynihan and D' Amato, as well as to several key Congressmen, indicating Union's opposition to the proposed reductions. As Director of Financial Aid, I am taking an active role in cooperating with our state and national associations to oppose these cuts. I urge you to write to our Senators and your Congressmen. Let them know your position. The only way we can influence congressional actions is to inform those in decision-making positions of our feelings. Address your mail to either the House or Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510. Almost two-thirds (63.3 percent) of this year's fresh- men, compared to 44 percent in 1967 and 60 percent in 1978, say that \being very well-off financially\ is a very important goal in life. Stay. Out of Iran As inflation balloons costs and restricts personal resources, continuance in college becomes more and more challenging. The need for a continued strong financial aid program, when Union's charges approach $9,000 per year, is essential. Every effort is made to provide assistance to students whose family resources are inadequate to meet the full cost. The College has increased its commitment to student aid once again for 1981-82. But the College alone cannot be responsible for funding financial aid. The Higher Education Act of 1980 authorized increases in just about every federal student aid program. With the new ad- ministration, however, these gains are being threatened. A slightly higher number agree that a good reasonto go to college is \to be able to make more money.\ As students' values change, Astin suggests, their career interests shift. Women show a greater in- terest in traditionally male fields every year, he says. This year, 30 percent of the women quieried are now pursuing careers in business, law, engineering, and medicine, which King calls the \male- dominated\ fields. At Union, 30 percent of the students majoring in engineering are females. Women make up 39 percent of biology and chemistry majors, 26 percent of political science majors, and 36 percent of the student body as a whole. By contrast, the number of men pursuing careers in those four fields nationally is almost unchanged (from 49 percent on 1966 to 50 percent in 1979) in the last 15 years. Astin attributes these trends in part to the women's movement, which has in- fluenced both males and females. This year, 93.3 percent of the class of 1984 supported women's rights to equal,pay for equal work. Additionally, there was equally strong support of increased advancement op- portunities and a life outside the home for women. Although the most affluent freshmen still enroll at highly selective private universities (slightly less than half come from families making $40,000 or more per year), meeting tuition costs has become an in- creasingly big worry for all students. Reliance on federal Guaranteed Student Loans and Basic Educational Opportunity Grants (now called Pell Grants) rise dramatically each year, King notes. Continued from uage 2 3rd annual \Be Bold\ party. if Union women allow us, we shall act in an honest, . fortfitight' manner which wollld make the' 1 'Be Bold\ women proud. The brief history of the \Be Bold\ party has ,been a successful on~. Please help us- perpetuate thlS tradition and at the same time help cr.eate a :more mature social .atmosphere at Union. With Mllcb Respect, The.Broihers ahd Pl., .... ed .. tges .. of Delta UpsUon The United States could not have used military force to rescue 52 Americans held in Iran because Iran is all that stands in the way of a direct confrontation between this country and the Soviet Union, Union political science professor Stephen C. Pelletiere says. And until the U.S. develops a consistent and defensible foreign policy in the Middle East, \the best thing we can do is not do anything,\ Prof. Pelletiere adds. A former Newsweek editor and Middle East correspondent, Pelletiere is an authority on Middle East politics and the growing crisis in the Persian Gulf. This term, he is teaching a course about the con- temporary politics of the area. For all intents and purposes, Pelletiere says, there has been no government in Iran since the Ayatollah Khomeini took over. \The so-called Islamic revolution is fueled by passions which, because they are so intense, give the impression of great purpose,\ Pelletiere said. \But in fact, behind the passion there is no substance. Various groups that took over have not yet settled amongst themselves who's going to lead.\ He added that the country will have no clear direction until this fight is resolved. In the meantime, Pelletiere notes, \it is in the best interests of the U.S. and Russia to pretend there is a government in Iran,\ because Iran acts as a buffer between the world's two super powers. \As soon as we start to meddle in Iran. we run the risk of panicking the Russians and bringing about direct con- frontation. Then we could have a nuclear war\. What, then, can this country do to protect its interests in the Middle East? Two things, Pelletiere says. In the short run, the U.S. should develop a rapid deployment force of up to 100,000 men that could be sent quickly to protect oil fields or face down a Russian threat. This will help demonstrate our will to the rest of the world, Pelletiere notes, but we should not be \deluded into thinking that this force is going to be a cure all.\ Ideally, he says, this rapid deployment force should be \highly visible and in an ex- cellent state of training, but never used.\ Current foreign policy in the Middle East i~ \~chizophrenic Right By JULIAN W. LUMEN Many of us here at Union believe in our politics. As many of us have seen, through ob- servation, the nation has made a shift to the right wing. But is the right wing really the \right\ wing? I'm not saying that it is or that it is not. What I'm actually saying in reality is that the right wing ~bould not be given a free handtodo whatever it wants or pleases to. Where are the according to PeUetiere. \We're asking Arab nations not to give way to Russian blandishments, but we don't support them\ he says, adding, \You can't support Sadat, you can't sup- port Saudi Arabia, and you can't support Pakistan because the Russians are quite ready to support H1em.\ To solve this problem, Pelletiere believes the U.S. interests in the Middle East shauld be clearly defied. At the present time, he observes, \Most people don't appreciate the fact that the situation in the Persian Gulf is getting awfully close to the raw.\ This is in large part, he feels, because of a lack of understanding about the nature of a bi-polar world, in which the two super powers must \keep ahead of each other without losing control of events.\ The battle is far from over, and I am confident that student financial aid will emerge with few losses. But your help is needed. Please write now, and feel free to stop in on the second floor of Becker Hall for periodic updates on the status of financial aid in Congress. on Red counter forces to keep an eye on the recently empowered right wing: This is what any government needs to make sure a faction does not become a near dictatorship. Whatever happened to the old radical line like Angela Davis, Abbie Hoffman, Eldridge Cleaver, The Chicago Seven, The MC5, The Fab Four, The Warsaw Pact and Tommy Smothers? I'd hate to look in the ----~ \Watergate mirror\ and see Alexander Haig staring me in the face. There are counter forces existing that don't receive any attention such as, the American Communist, the Socialist Workers, and the National Socialist Parties. And how about the Neutron BOMB? ! It seems the right wing has let the one bat (nuclear power) out of heW Often, I sometimes contemplate to myself, \Julian? What's the deal! Did not the bad vibes radiate enough from the Three- Mile island ordeal? I feel we've traded \flower power\ for nuclear power. Where are those old-line radicals when we need them? Jane Fonda (China Syndrome, 'Tom Hayden and Barbarella) is not enough~ Public interest in this issue is as missing as Jimmy Hoffa. Apathy is as prominent a~ urban cowboys. In re-capitulation; if Union pupils cared more about the issues, they (the pupilsl would be less apathetic. Could the shift to the right, really be a shift in reverse? We can't stay in neutral forever! I advocate we put FOUR on the floor, the pedal to the metal. and drive full \solar\ ahead into the future. Please see my angle in hand.

' QP;l!lQQ~IlPIP,N$.{-.S,. ;;F.tJ~~~'U; f!!.,. ·H!'!~J. .. . BoutOn Blasts SpQrfs Sportsman-Author-JournaJist Jim Bouton, speaking in Memorial Chapel Mor;,day night. ByJIMDAVIS Former major league baseball pitcher Jim Bouton thinks that sports are overemphasized in America todafand that this \incredible hype\ is a \terrible trend.\ Speaking casually before a crowd of about 100 iii. Memorial Chapel Monday evening, Bouton said that \professional sports has be~me a business, like the movies.\ He added that \the deification of players diminishes the value of people who are truly im- SAC· Alcohol Survey·. • • Continued from page 1 Solutions to alcohol abuse and alcoholism on. New York State campuses vary substantially. Although Colgate has no specific program for alcohol abuse, the Committee for Responsible Drinking en- courages assistance for those with problems\ either within the college's counseling service or through the community. RPI also has a general counseling service, seeing no need for a specific program on campus. Syracuse University has just set up a group program related to alcoholism and alcohol abuse. They also have numerous awareness speakers and are holding an alcohol abuse con- ference on Feb. 25. Alfred University has an alcohol abuse program, which has been in effect for about a year and a half. This ~involves forced referral for students who have disciplinary problems as a result of alcohol ab~e .. The Administration at Alfred, which eliminated Pub specials, noted that alcohol abuse on campus seems to have been curtailed to a great ~xtent since that time. The problems stemming from alcohol abuse extend beyond the Union campus. The New York State Division of Alcoholism, and Alcohol Abuse have set up many. programs at colleges, such as the one being organized at Syracuse on Feb. 25. Dean of Students, Robert H. Kellett, brought out the severity of the alcohol .problem on campus to the RA's at the meeting last week. He com- mented that \several times in · his three years here, students have had to leave in mid-term to be de-toxified.\ According to Dean Kellett, the sub-coWlcil and administr.ation at Union is trying \to .get some decent information on the patterns on campus.'' At the RA meeting, Associate Dean of Students, Willard Roth explained the danger lies with the .student who is involved in \missing exams, or cutting a number of classes- that's the part of the iceberg that's not showing/' · How to go about assessing the problem is hard enough. It is finding a . proper solution to alcohol abuse that is so difficult for .any college campus. At present, Union has a general counseling service and health service, which are available~ Along with this, the RA's go through workshops before the fall term, wnich show them how. to handle alcohol problems. \It is most important that we make campus and community resources available,'' ac- cording to SAC member, Brian Marks. The process of formulating a liquor policy and finding solutions to alcohol abuse, is very complicated and will in- volve much thought and research. As mentioned by Vernon Wetmore, another SAC member, \It is not anyone's intention to close the 'Skellar or Pub.\ A survey would be used only as an· overview of problem ' areas on campus and as WetD more stated, \jf students do answer it truttifully, they are not going to be penalized.\ portant--teachers, fir-emen; Nobel Prize winn~rs.'' The emphasis that has been placed on \winning at any cost\ has caused fans to identify with team's performances to the extent of no longer actively participating theniselves. And Bouton didn't approve. \Television is responsible for a lot of tl'lis,\-the former New York City television sports aiUlouncer· observed. \You can watch sports almost 24 hours a day now on TV. It's absurd.\ Along with this, the 41-year- ald author of the controversial' book, Ball Four, also praised Union's intramural program because \'it lets everyone participate.\ In addition,. he COJ.llmended th·e College'.s emphasis on academic over athletic excellence; A former 20~game winner with the New York Yankees, Bouton also reminisced about his baseball experiences. , \When I started out, I was an all-American boy. But· I found out that major' league players are regular people early in my first season,'' he said, recalling being woken, up at 3 a.m. one night to drink beer on a hotel roof and look into other people's windows. tention than when the com- . mi.ssioner of baseball, Bowie Kuhn, reprimanded me.'' Mter retiring during the 1970 season, Bouton ~ecame a ~ports announcer on WABC-TV iil New York City.· At -~he station, he said, he tried to stay away 'from major sports coverage, con~ centrating instead on · \losing high school football teams and ol(} men who lift weights.\ This ~'irreverant\ style did not endear aouton to the local .profe~siorial clubs because \it didn't sell tickets.\ But in so actirig, Bouton said that he believed .he \!as being ·a \r~porter rather than a ''salesman.'' After six years of bl'Qad- - casting, ·the last three wit!:I WCBS-TV, Bouton said that his life \Was still lacking something.\ To \find myself,\ he returned to professional baseball. · He played two years in the minor leagues, , and, on the whole, said he enjoyed that more than playing in the majors. \In .the majors players are distant, separated from the fans. In the minors, you can eat hot dogs, sit in the bull pen and sign autographs.\ At the end of the 1978 season, Bouton wa&. called up to the Atlanta Braves, where he won one of his three starts. He added that this comeback, at the age of 38. wa.s \one of the most interesting experiences of my life~\ . Mter nearly two hours of these anecdotes, Bouton summarized that \persistence\ has been the key element in his experiences. \'When things are .. rough for everyone else, tha:t's the time to get ahead.\

ie jt a a . - ,. al • • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • •• • • • • • •• • • • • • • ·- • • • • • • • • • OONOORDIENSIS, Febma~y 19, J981 Page5 '···Energy Projects Announced 0 0 .c 0. Director of Campus OoeratioRs, Jack J. Hill announces new energy t . ' . t tj conserva Jon pro1ec s. Director of Campus Operations Jack J. Hill has announced a new series of energy conservation projects, In addition to work currently in progress, Hill said the following projects will begin soon,: Variable air volume in Schaffer Library: This involves installation of controls in the air distribution ducts to provide more even temperatures throughout the old section of the library. Work is scheduled to begin March 19 and will con- tinue through April and May. Science and . Engineering Because these ducts distribute Center. Work will begin soon on chilled air during the summer this project. months, Hill said, the work Heat recovery systems in must be completed before air · Balley and Butterfield halls: conditioning is required. While This involves installation of routine operations of the library heat recovery coils in the air may be disrupted, service will handling units of both buildings be maintained in aU areas, Hill to capture exhaust air and use it said. to heat incoming air. Work will Window alterations in the begin in the near future, Hill Science and Engineering said, with minimal disruption of Center: This involves weather- day-to-day operations expected. stripping all operable sash, Heat recovery system in weather-stripping and sealing Achilles Rink: Heat recovery designated windows, and mechanisms will be installed on Job lnterv,iewon Television replacing plate glass with in- existing refrigeration equip- sulated panels in designated ment. The recovered energy locations. This project is now will be used to heat domestic hot being bid, and work should water throughout the rink. This By JANET SINGLETON College Press Service BALTIMORE, MD (CPS)- No, he has no connection- physical or spiritual-to the video dating industry, he says. But Eugene Williams, a dean at Sojourner-Douglas College here, wouldn't mind putting a little show business in a similarly personal area of students' lives: the job in- terview. Williams thinks students should be going to job in- terviews with a complete audio- visual presentation of them- selves, all the better to sell themselves to prospective employers. \We're not trying to help that prospective teacher who has some beauty and shiny teeth,\ Williams explains. \We're trying to give people the op- portunity to demonstrate their abilities.!' The \opportunity\ comes in something Williams calls The Audio-Visual Portfolio, which he's now trying to market to students nationally. The Student who pays-prices start at $42.95-will get the chance to present work sam- ples, an autobiography and even a professional philosophy through a slide presentation, accompanied by an audio cassette. ••If a person is applying for a teaching position,'' Williams says, \the pictures will show hiin working with students, interacting with parents and the community. Trough the tapes, the employer can hear what the person actually sounds like in the classroom.\ Ruth Parcell, of UCLA's career office, likes the idea. \Any way a student can present himself more imaginatively would be good,\ she enthuses. ''And it certainly would be interesting to try.\ But reaction from other placement counselors is less sanguine. \I would say anything that would help in presenting yourself long distance should be tried,\ says counselor Mary Compstone of Portland State University. \However she adds, \I can't see the value of delivering . this all to a local employer or taking it out on an interview. Why put anything between you and the employer if you can help it?\ Frank.Hallgreen, director of Career Placement at the University of Nebraska, sees \no particular advantage'' to the approach. \Personal in- Camp Triangle Winter Address 2575 Troy Rd. Schenectady, N. y_ 12309 Phone: 518-783·1233 8 acca••n .... Summer Address P 0 Box 5 Lake Clear. N Y 12945 Phone 518-891' 3311 Summer-camp for refarded near Lake Placid now hiring: Campus interv~iew.s arranged Write: 2575 Troy Rd. ·Dutch Hollow Pub Proudly Presents Friday & Saturday: Beef & Brew 5:00-7:00 p.m. Happy Hours Friday & Saturday 10:00 - 12:00 p.m. Friday: Chocolate Orgasms $2.00 Saturday: Sombreros terviews are crucial. Students have to learn how to present themselves.\ An audio-visual presentatitln, Hallgreen adds, may not be flexible enough. \Each situition is different,\ Hallgreen argues. \A fixed presentation doesn't allow for change. It's sort of like a touched-up picture.\ \We primarily see people going into management, business, health and hwnan services,\ says a spokeswoman for Harvard's Career Placement Service. \I ·don't think that it (an audio-visual presentation) would be ap- propriate at this level, or that employers would find it useful.\ Smythe . • • Continued from page 8 weekly column titled \Everybody Sucks But Me.\ Eustas's objective was to en- tertain people with the ridiculous side of life. He did a good job. He laughed at anybody and anything-no holds barred. The readers laughed, they knew a farce when they saw one. Ob, sure, a few people took offense, but only Yahoos who were blind to the humor in life. (Yahoo: \I see no humor in this article. You Smythies are sick puppies.\) As for E ustas, he laughed until he cried, then he died. His descendants are laughing still, for fear of being dragged into the seriousness of life. (Nervous tension, man's invention, is the biggest killer that's around today. -R.D.D.) This reminds me of a story ... about life ... begin in the spring, Hill said. project will also begin soon, Hill Vestibule addition in the said. Science and Engineering Plans and Specifications for Center: New aluminum doors these projects are on file in the will be installed on the south, Physical Plant and are east, and west sides of the available for inspection. Education Secretary Terrel Bell 'A Pretty Fair Guy' By HELEN CORDES d~partment itself is eliminated. College Press Service Fmally, the report wants to make adherence to \traditional WASIDNGTON, D;C. (CPS)- In contrast to the Washington education lobby's deep anxieties over what the Reagan administration's education policies may be, most lobbyists greeted the nomination of Terrel Bell as the new secretary of the Department of Education with barely-raised eyebrows. \Bell? I think he'll be okay,\ one college lobbyist said in response to the nomination. \He's a pretty fair guy and a strong administrator.\ \We're cautiously optimistic about Bell,\ added Dale Lestina of the National Education Association (NEA), the teachers' union that avidly supported Jimmy Carter during the presidential campaign. ''We're more concerned about the kinds of instructions he may be receiving (from Reagan),\ Lestina noted. Among those \instructions\ would be the President's often- stated cmp.paign promise to dismantle the Department of Education, and some of the education policies suggested by the conservative Heritage Foundation. The foundation's 180-page education policy . report suggests ending all affirmative- action, women's education, bilingual education, and Teacher Corps programs. It _ also advocates a 33 percent budget cut for the Department of Education before the 1115 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY PHONE 377~264-2 or 382-8684 values'' a condition for receiving federal education funds. Bell himself, currently Utah's Cemmissioner of Higher Education and a former U.S. Commissioner of Education, has in the past taken some positions that contradict some of the new administration's promised policies. For. example, Bell cam- paigned in favor of creating, the Department of Education that the President has pledged to dismantle, NEA's Lestina points out. The Cabinet-level department officially opened only last May. Until that time most federal education programs were administered by the U.S. Office of Education in the Department of Health, Education & Welfare (HEW). In May, HEW's name was changed to the Department of Health & Human Services (HHS). Lestina suggests that Bell's support for creating the education department might have been motivated more by a desire to free education programs for HEW than by a wish to see a new cabinet-level department established. Bell, however, has hinted he would work within the new administration to keep the department open and at cabinet level. Evidently those hints haven't worried Reagan advisers concerned with education policy. \Bell is just an education bureaucrat,\ sniffs Tom Ascik 1 who helped prepare · the Heritage Foundation education report. \What counts is the Republican majority on the cabinet. The Republicans now controlling posts like Health & Human Services and the Treasury can influence decisions in education. Like tuition tax credits-that'r:; really a Treasury issue.\ Homestyle Italian Cooking But Bell, who served as acting U.S. commissioner of education in 1970 and then as com- missioner of education in 1975- 76 under Gerald Ford, is one of the few experienced Washington hands in Reagan's cabinet, and has protected bureaucratic nests in the past Salad Bar Included with All Pasta & All Dinners Reasonable prices Plus ~ 1 0% Discount to Union College Students with IDs Banquet Facilities Lyle invites all you hungry Union students to LYLE'S @@:iiiM HOAGIES We're open to the wee hours. Let us make you one of our fine Submarines. 460 State St. 370-2566

Page 6 ures Behind the Sc·ene: Tuition Increased By BRIAN QUINT Last month, the ad- ministration announced general increases in tuition, room and board for Union students, It will cost 13.6 percent more money to return here next year. Certain questions arise concerning the increase: Where will that in- crease be spent? How is the college administration con- trolling waste in the system? Is the 13.6 percent the least possible increase? According to John B. Hauser, Vice President for Finance and Administration, the hike in: prices for tuition and fe~s will create approximately $1.54 million in additional revenue. Room and board fees will produce nearly $300,000 more money. The administration, Hauser said, estimates endowment to the College as well as in- vestments of current funds will bring in $272,000. Research grants and programs win create $95,000 and assorted other programs and fees will add $128,000 to the College's treasury. This means there will be a total of more than $2.33 million in additional revenue. (See chart.) Where is that $2.33 million being spent? By far, the majority of the money is going to pay for increases in the wages of the teaching staff, $1.425 million to be exact. Is this needed? Yes, says John Hauser: \The reason for the tuition, room and board increases is the feeling and opinion of the College that salaries and wages of faculty and staff must be increased significantly. They have been held down over the last four or five years. Our people have been hurt.'' Huaser feels that the College was ''suffering\ because the high quaUty professors weren't being attracted to Union and that the faculty was being drawn to other schools. In a report prepared by Thomas J. D'Andrea, Vice President for Academic Affairs, to the Executive Committee of the Col'lege, the compensation problem is further illustrated. According to the report, in a comparison of colleges in the same grouping as Union, schools such as RPI and Amherst, for the 1976-77 school year, Union's average teacher salary ranked 17th at $22,146. Columbia topped the ratings with a $28,949 salary. The average wage of all the schools in ·Union's class was nearly $22,500 in 1976-77. In 1979-80 Union dropped to 23rd in the ratings, with $26,301, a full $10,000 behind the top-ranked Columbia. Union was below the average that year by nearly $1,200. (See Table I.) The teacher compensation report also pointed · out that from 1976-1977 to 1980-1981 the Consumer Price Index rose 50 percent, while salaries at Union rose 31.6 percent, a net loss of more than 12 perc.ent. It recommended \a salary pool increment of 15.1 percent.\ This figure was later reduced by the Administration to 13.4 percent. Of the new expenditures, there will be a $350,000 increase in student aid. Is this redun- dant--students essentially paying for this aid increase? John Hauser: \It is a redistribution. It may be a form of an income tax, if you want to think of it that way. Our student aid program goes entirely to - Sassoon Sty I ists - European Highlighting - All Phases of Perm Waving - Cellophane Coloring • - Vibrant Hennas - L'Obette Method of Wax Depilatory - Perm Specials 20 Pet. Discount Hair Studio with Bonnie or Robin. 519 Union Street Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 382-7956 15 Pet. Discount to Union Students those who need it.\ The budgets of the campus departments will increase four percent, $136,000 allotted there. Forty-five thousand dollars will go to maintain the dorms and other buildings and $40,000 will be set aside for eventual repairs on the Astroturf football field.- The remaining $330,000 will go to academic affairs, food ser- vices, research and other programs and miscellaneous expenditures. (See chart.) Is there waste in the system and how is the College minimizing it? Mr. Hauser, while admitting that thete ''has t() be instances of waste,\ feels the College is adequately controlling it. He points out that the structure of the budget- determining procedure aids in minimizing bad spending. The budget is worked out by the President and the Cabinet, which is composed of the head officers of the College's main sections. The budgets for the different sections are presented· to the Cabinet by these officers. The Cabinet \kicks around\ the proPQsals until a majority of the group is in agreement about an expenditure. The Cabinet of- ficers determine how much their section needs by getting input from the department heads that make up their sec- tion. According to Mr. Hauser, \they.- (the section heads) review it and determine the priorities, · determine the possibility of savings that exist.\ It has been suggested by some that while some of them were necessary, perhaps a 10 percent increase, prices were further hiked only to match other schools in Union's grouping. Hauser flatly denies this occurred at Union, that while \there is that school of thought\ at other schools, it does not exist at Union. President JohnS. Morris, who was also interviewed, agreed: \The reason to raise the tuition is for the specific needs.\ The President also pointed out that it is important for Union to remain in the same class, but the quality of the teaching and facilities determine a school's stature and many times the high quality · ean only be maintained through adequate wages. - TABLE I ·-; Faculty Compensation Comparison 19'16--77 & 1979-80 19711-;77 1979-80 Institution Compensation Institution Compensation l. Columbia $28,949 1. Columbia $36;681 2. Cornell 26,554 2. Brown 32,660 3. RochesterUniv. 26,221 3. C9rnell 32,140 4. Princeton · 11J,707 4. Princeton ~ 31,769 5. Brand.eis 25,591 5. Brandeis 31,532 6,.Brown 24,934 6. Lehigh 30,431 7. Amherst 24,682 7. Amhe:rst 29,522 8. R.P.I. 24,497 8. Wesleyan 29,402 9. Wesleyan 24,356 9. R.P.I. 29,267 10. Lehigh 24;292 10. Dartmouth 29,008 11. Dartmouth 23,493 11. Tufts 28,916 12. Clarkson 23,064 12. RochesterUniv. 28,708 13. Vassar 22~930 13. Clarkson · 27,847 14. Colgate 22,607 14. Smith 27,664 15. T·ufts 22;243 15. Barnard 27,608 16. Worcester 22,234 16. Bucknell 27,330 17. Union 22,146 17. Worcester 27,309 18. Wellesley 22,067 18. Wellesley 27,201 19. Franklin & Marshall 21,826 19. Trinity 27,156 20. Trinity 21,820 20. Colgate 27,129 21. Williams 21,801 21. Vassar 27,105 22. Bucknell 21,773 22. Williams ., 27,078 23. Hamilton 21,768 23. Union 26,301 24.Smith 21,685 24. Franklin & Marshall 26,676 25. Barnard 21,592 25.Bowdoin 26,176 26. Davidson. 21,564 26. Lafayette 26,110 27. Bowdoin 21,276 27. Denison 25,918 28. Denison 20,816 28. Davidson 25,683 29. Lafayette 20,756 29.Kenyon 24,764 30. St. Lawrence 20,100 30. St. Lawrence 24,408 3l.Kenyon - 19,990 31. Mt. Holyoke 24,141 32. Hobart 19-850 32. Hamilton 24,063 33. Skidmore 19,822 33.Skidmore 23,247 & 34. Mt. Holyoke 19,759 34:. Washington · 35. Hartwick 18,495 Jefferson 23,069 ' 36. Washington & 35.Hobart 22,931 Jefferson 18,012 36.Hartwick 22,702 Median: $21,947 Median: $27,179 Average: $22;480 Average: $27,479 TABLEii New ·or Additional Expenditures & Revenues for 1981..:82 Budget Revenues Expenditures Tuition and fees Room Board Endowment Current Fund Investment Research & other sponsored programs Miscellaneous $1,542,000 176,000 120,000 184,000 88,000 95,000 128,000 $2,333,00tl Faculty pool Student Aid compensation $1,425,000 Budgets of departments Dorm capital Synthetic turf replacement fund Academic Affairs Food Services Research & other sponsored programs Miscellaneous 350,000 136,000 45,000 40,000 68,000 96,000 95,000 75,000 $2,330,000 (near Union College) Getting • In Shape . Block 11 U\ Presents All Campus Roller Skating Party at the Electric City Roller Rink ~::~d!~: Thursday, Feb. 26, 7:30-10:30 p.m. A ~· Sponsored by _:t:'ot;_,. tt\.,_es q~ .... , 18 Block U Society ~~_, ~ Check with your RA for deta.i Is By NANCY CAMARATA The dreaded winter term at Union College - so many boring nights staying inside doing absolutely nothing because outdoors it is too cold. The frigid weather makes us all so idle; our activity level approaches zero. PiZza parties hit an all- time high because the free delivery allows us to stay warm while we munch out. Unfor~ tunately, come springtime, that idleness .exposes itself in un- wanted pounds. But this winter, many girls at Union(myself included) have decided to remain active and keep in shap.e. We have discovered Nautilus Plus on Union Street, a physical fitness center for men and women. It is frequented by an increasing number of women who are all interested in firming up and toning their bodies while losing a few unsightly bulges. The ominous-looking weight machines are quite intimidating at first, ana inevitably visions of muscle-bound, brutish women will probably cross your mind, but your fears are unwarranted. As Melissa Schein, a consultant at Nautilus explained, women work with lighter weights and a greater number of r~petitions to get a nice toned look instead of bulging muscles . .Also, she says muscle w.ill not tum to fat because there are two different - types of tissue, and as long as you maintain a wise diet (which she will help you draw up and follow), you will see wonderful results. Physical improvement is not the only advantage to working out. As Joann Mazur, a regular at Nautilus pointed out, \It has ~iven me a lot more energy and mcreased endurance. It releases tension; I feel good. This type of fitness program is addicting; once you begin going, you don't want to stop.\ So, if you want to stay healthy and are interested in looking and feeling terrific, go down to Nautilus and work out. Who knows, you may be a budding Bionic Woman! - 0 J !' rec typ stu' the \in dor dor dor an~ sla1 wh mi1 pos Wh1 ple wh the an ap~ tha stu att: thi~ pos yot F att• for tha mo a t tur the is tho stu cor pa3 fee stu the Ift to 1 the org bla nei nor sor 'I ad in1 log ap< get tru eve wil eve for nw lon wa: gra lon wa PBI stu

is \ OONOOJ:eDlE.NSIS~ ·B'ebruar1t 1!!, .1981· Page 7 0 .. . P•nlon: · - Apathy .Defend-ed By DAN RYAN No group at Union College receives more abuse than the typical Union a·pathetic students. Student leaders call them everything from \lazyu to \intellectually lifeless.\ They don't bother anybody, they don't get ·in anyone's way, they don't ask for any money from anyone,. and yet they are slandered and libeled by people who are simply too narrow- minded to understand their position. If you are one of those who get some sort of sadistic pleasure out of abusing those who don't care to defend themselves, read this article as an attempt to explain why apathetic students aren.'t all that bad. If you are one of thos.e students who are constantly attacked for being lazy, read this article as a defense of your position. Or don't read it. It's your choice. running things, there will always be a plentiful supply of leaders. There is also a reverse side to the leaders' argument. What would happen if everyone became active? The student activity fees would skyrocket! Eh1en with so many apathetic student$ around, we are having trouble making ends meet with our stmtent activities budget. If everyone participated, the student activities fee would be prohibitively high, and nobody could afford to. come to Union. If it weren't for apathetic students, there would be no Union. The fact of the matter is that there are students who enjoy participating, and those who don't. Those who participate their positions. In a respected institution such as Union, it seems odd that the majority of .students would be as wrong as the leaders claim they are. In closing, I would like to say that the apathetic students are the misunderstood heroes of Union College. They don't compl~in about the fact that they don't receive any representation on the Student Forum. (Did you know that not one truly apathetic student has served on the Forum in recent years?). They are abused and attacked by the arrogant ... minority of student leaders, and _g yet it is their money that the ~ leaders are spending. If it <( weren't for their apathy, -e student activity fees would ruin ~ the school financially. Union ;~ College is an institution that ~ abuses, and yet depends on, its .£ apathetic majority. It is time o that the apathetic students get :g the thanks they deserve. a. House at the Rice-Parker estate, now owned by the College. First of all, student leaders attack the apathetic students for not supporting the events that they put so much time and money into. Ever)' time there is a big,, expensive program that turns out to be a· colossal flop, the apathetic Union community is blamed. It seems to me, though, that the apathetic students also have reason to complain. After all, don't they pay as much in Student Activity fees as the most active students? It's their money that the student leaders are wasting. If they are forgiving enough not to decapitate the organizers of the flops, the least the organizers could do is to quit blaming the students who neither requested the program nor complained about spon- soring it. · are doing so because they enjoy being involved in student ac- tivities. By the same token, the student who sits in his. or her room and ignores the rest of the campus is doing so because he or she enjoys doing that. Who are the leaders to say that their particular likes are better than the likes of others? Both apathetic and active students are merely doing what they want to do, and they both have a right to· do it. Union Receives Estate· The most common answer to a defense of apathy is expressed in that masterpiece of ''leader logic,\ the \if everyone was apathetic, nothing would ever get done\ argument. That is true, but it is als_o true. that not everyone Is apathetic, and there will neve~: come a day when everyone will be. The reasons for participating are too numerous for thatto happen. As long as there are students who want something to put on their graduate school applications, as long as there are students who want to see their name in the paper, as long as there are students who simply enjoy It is also worth pointing out the fact that even the active students concede the fact that most of the campu~ris apathetic. While popUlarity is not a proper means of deciding which side is right in an issue, perhaps the student leaders should rethink Delta Upsilon's 2nd Annual •a_e Bold' Party Friday, Feb. 20 at 10:00 p.m. By CHRIS PHELAN Problems of overcrowding in the dormitories and overuse of dining facilities have affected the quality of life at Union College for some time now. It is assumed that further expansion of the lower campus would add to these difficulties at the present time, since the population of college age people has been declining steadily for the p~st few years. The trend is expected to continue. According to Robert H. Kellett, Dean of Students, there are no immediate plans for increasing the number of students at Union; in fact, in order to eliminate over- crowding it will be necessary to reco_gn~~ the _problem of the past two years, and adopt a policy · of retrenchment. Presently, the question of overcrowding and additional dining arrangements is being looked at by Dean Kellett. One of his ideas is to utilize some space in Carnegie as a dining area. Recently., a possible solution to the expansion problem arose when Union College acquired the title to the Rice-Parker Come to the Races! fun for all •• --'.'+~~· ... Thorobred racing • on film Chi Psi Lodge Friday, Feb. 27th Post Time 9:30 Tickets' $1.00 advance $2.00 door FREE BEER AND POPCORN AND CASINO GAMBLING estate, comprising five acres of land at the corner of Lenox Road and Union Avenue. The house has nine bedrooms, nine bathrooms, and an elevator. The estate appears to have been well maintained structurally. In 1976, Mrs. Mabel Rice Parker died, leaving by will in trust the estate to Union. The will stipulated that her husband, Mr. Philo Parker, would have life tenancy on the .property. After his death, ownership of the acreage and house would automatically revert to the College. The transaction became official Jan. 1~ and the Board of Trustees holds title to the estate. Currently, Mr. Parker's family is sorting through the contents of the house. It is a large family, there are many pieces of furniture, art, and books, and the College is cooperating with their efforts to clear out the house. Once this has been completed, the College will undertake a complete survey of the heating, electrical and ventilation systems. Plant maintenance people will figure out how the house works, and the security force will check the premises periodically. Robert Rasmussen, Director of the Annual Fund, says that there are no immediate plans for the use of the house and grounds, but after the survey is complete, there will be suf- ficient data to entertain dif- ferent ideas for the uses and purposes of the property. There may be obvious potential uses, and College President John S. !Vlorris will ask for recom- mendations from key ad- ministrators of the College. Although the College is as yet unable to assume responsibility for the use of the property, there are a few more problems to be solved. The annual taxes, maintenance and heating costs for the house will be very high. Another sensitive issue is the Schenectady zoning ordinance for the block made up of Union Avenue, Lenox Road, Wendell Avenue, and Douglass Road. This area has been zoned as an historial district of single family homes, none of which can be demolished. The uses of the property are therefore very restricted. A co- op, dormitory, or Greek house could not be considered as a viable solution. With the ex- ception of two private homes, the College holds title to the entire block .. The Trustees will have tough problems to solve in the coming months: how to work within the restrictions on possible uses of the property that are imposed by this par- ticular zoning ordinance, and how to plan for future expansion and use of College facilities. Features Needs Writers Contact ,D, Booth {6570) or Judi Chervenak (6475) 464 State St. we deliver Schenectady 374-1888

Page 8 CONOORDIENSIS, February 19, 1981 arts Cabaret Successful Again! By TOM FARRELL A veritable parade of talented Union women hit the Cabaret Room last week. The first act ·Of the evening was Bambi Schlauch and Demetra Pon- tisako, accompanied by Melissa. Gold on piano. Bambi and Deme presented show and. movie music for Ute masses. Together, they did songs like \We Beseech Thee\ from ~odspell, \Never say No\ from The Fantastlcs, and {with the help of Priscilla and Charlie, two so-ugly~ they're-cute puppets) \The Rainbow Connection,\ Kermit's big number from the Muppet Movie. Deme's solo on \I don't Know How To Love Him\ was beautiful. She was honest, warm, and touching as I've never seen her before. Her abilities grow in leaps and bounds. Bambi soloed on \Just a Housewife,\ a song from a little-known musical called SmY.the HistorY-: Working. It's Bambi's own song ill the show and she performed it wonderfully, with backup vocals by Melissa Deme, and Jodi Cohen. The second act was Jodi Cohen and her rQo;mmate, Cathy Aversa on piano. Jodi-is possessed of a clear, fine soprano voice and an hones presentation style. She began by admitting how nervous she was, and in doing .so, charmed us all. She sang songs of many women--''Desperade, '' ''The Way We Were,\ and \So Far Away,\ for example. I was especially thrilled by her in- terpretation of Barbara Streisand's '!,Everything.\ It had an almost anthem quality. The only possible addition to Jodi's act would be an all-out sell-it number, to shake us up a bit. Not that there was anything lacking inher· act, but. if would be fun to hear her really belt a number. Of course, how does one forget the amizing EMCEE? Melissa Gold proceeded on the \if they haven't heard the jokes in fifteen years, they'll be funny again\ theory. She told us a series of your basic Dr. Seuss .II) -o jokes (Whatdo you say to a two- ~ headed monster? Hello, .c: u Hello.\) cleverly concealed on .Q! a piece of paper in her hand. .!!! And she was right--they :0 somehow were very, very funny, ;~: or was it the wine? By the way, ~ Mel, I don't get it. Melissa has a ..a natural, comfortable ·presence 0 t on stage; as well as a knock,. -5. them-over singlng voice. In fine, last week's cabaret was among the best. And, to make the weekly plug; you can see and hear the charms of Bambi, Deme, Jodi and Melissa, beginning tomorrow · night, in theN ott, where they're Working. Is Life Worth a Laugh? Valley (Yahoos), read the Kronikle religiously, and believed every word as absolute truth. took 'life too seriously. The Smythe Kroniklc just made everything worse, pretending to be the New York Times and . making mountains out of molehills, etc., etc. So Eustas joined the staff of the Kronlkle and he wrote a Continued on page 5 culture Melissa Gold and Bambi Schlauch at Cabaret Thursday, February ~19th, 1981 1st Act: MIKE SKLIAR and LARRY DEUTSCH 2nd Act: 3rd FLOOR RICHMOND ·MC's: WILL LLOYD and RICH TANENBAUM Shows at 9 and 11 p.m. Tickets on sale in Carnegie at 8 p.m. Don't Miss this Wild and Crazy Show!!! Back in the days when Eustas P. Smythe was spreading peanut butter like warm herp - er . . . spreading herpes like warm peanut- (anyway it was a while ago), there existed a small newspaper named the Smythe Kronikle. The Smythe Kronikle was a respectable little newspaper with headlines and pictures and everything a real newspaper had. Now the Smythe Kronikle served the tiny community of Smytheville in the Wahoo Valley. The circulation of this little paper was about 3,000, and it was delivered every week, rain or shine, to homes scat- tered throughout the Wahoo Valley The people of the Wahoo Eustas Smythe, having been born in Smytheville, ·knew the ins and outs of the Kronikle. (He kept his opinions to himself for once.) Mter spending a few years traveling around the country spreading good cheer .. . (and herpes), Eustas returned to Smytheville and was ap- palled to see how much credibility the Yahoos gave the little newspaper. Smythe r~alized that the Yahoos needed something to divert their at- tention away from the monotony of everyday life in the Wahoo Valley because they just Photo Corner: THE ,,m.oAEiif ~OF~~TH~-E~A~l~R£~5-'l~Kf~E~\I _____ _ II~ ~ty ~ b~ ll\- ~lA,-.4 Ft01UMR.y 2.3 55 0J\ Photographers!!! Submit your work .either to the Concordiensis or to the Arts Department Secretary!!! Don't forget to include your nar:'e· and the title of your print. For further deta1ls contact Demetra Pontisakos at 370-6869. Thoughts, like p(€anut-butter- -stuck-in-throat. Veins too tight, tension. Balloon, filled caged in ribs. Pressure! • For Words! POP! Thank God By Diane Fenaroli I a< 19 m fo th 19 M fa Fl F1 At all sp Vi m• in m: th pr St1 wl eq th4 pu fa1 ab COl Sal ca: mt frc COl .I sw ap: tio th< ap] for fal ' plil ce1 wil E apJ Fr1 Th off: 1 (IF IF< Sat be· Gr• COtl an3 rep 1 p.n anc FrE av< $U T fro1 Rot get thv; 15 . rig Am on· p spr: ava Re1 Ad: beg 231,'( pro: the~ do 1 for gra mec pla1 Stu gra• Offi plar the hav St

Page 9 '81-'82 Abroad around campus Faculty Advisers dUring the week of February 2:f.27, Some departments may announce special arrangements for ad- vising. Please be alert for such announcements. Union Terms Abroad is now accepting applications fQr all 1981-412 programs. At a recent meeting students were in- formed that ,they may apply for the following terms: summer, 1981, A Study ot Socialized Medicine in Three Countries, fall term, 1981, Bath England, Florence,· Italy,- and Rennes, France; wint!!r term, 1982; . Athen~, Greece, Seville, Spain, and a kibbutz in Israel. The spring 1982 term will be held in Vienna, Austria. All students regardless of major are eligible to participate in a term abroad as long as they maintain a 2.0 average and pass the course which is a prerequisite for their term. Students take three courses while abroad, whioh· is the equivalent of the course load they would take here on earn- pus. They generally live with familie~ so · th~y can better absorb the culture of the country.'\ · A term abroad costs about the same as a term spent on campus, except that the student must pay the airfare to and from the U.S. and ~the host country. · Anyone interested in a summer or fall term should apply immediately, as selec- tions are being made now so that you can preregister for the appropriate prerequisite course for your term. The deadline for fall applications will be Feb. 20. Winter and. spring ap- plications are also being ac- cepted now, but notifications will be sent out later in the year. For more information .and applications, 'please see Joan Freeman,OJ;..Professor .WiJJ.iam Thomas 'in the\ Terms Abroad office,· Humanities 211. I FC Boll Saturday Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, March 2nd. A tim doUar late fee will be assessed thereafter. Curlers \'\ Comp·ete - , I I The Union Curling Club recently sent two teams to. the 22nd Annual · Schenectady Mixed ·International Bonspeil. Twenty-four teams from all over the Northeast and Canada participa~ed in this competition, which lasted four days, Jan 28 through Feb. l. Alan Rand, acting as skip, led his team of Sue Stapera, Mike Nassar, an~ Debbie Downey, to the finals in· the fourth event by winning three games and narrowly losing one in overtime to Tam Heather of Canada. They went on to defeat Schenectady No. 2 9-5, and captured the Reid Chalice, the fourth event championship. Also curling for Union were two alumni, Steve Brietenfeld, '79, and Dori Weiner, '80, who teamed up with Marc Luxenberg and Lorin Neenan and came away with a 1-3 record. I. · The Curling Club will host a curling friendly soon at Achilles Rink. This will give novice curlers the opportunity to compete with experienced curlers from Albany and Schenectady. Interested student& should sign up in tlle Warm Room atthe cuding rink. Nominate Al~mni Reps The Interfraternity Council Nominating petitions for the (IFC) reminds students that the two representatives \from the , IFC Ball will take place tb.is Class of 1981 to the Union Saturday, Feb. 21. Tickets can Alumni Council are now be. obtained,~at $6 per couple for available in the Alumni Office. Greek members and $10 per Seniors interested in couple for .independents, from becoming representatives must any fraternity or sorority's IFC have their petitions signed by 25 representative. - classmates. Nominations will This event win begin at 9 be accepted through Thursday, During the past four years, council committees have been involved in the improvement of dormitory conditions and .proposals for new athletic facilities. The council as a whole has provided financial support to projects such as on-campus tree replcmting program and the restoration of the 1914 Detroit Electric Car, previpusly owned by. Charles Steinmetz. 'l'he council also supports two major camp us week en d.s : Homecoming and ReUnion. Questions an·out the Alumni ·Council and the elections can be directed to Cindy Battiste, '78, Director of. Alumni Programs, at the Alumni Office. Her phone number is 370..6168, Parents' Weekend Sched-ule Assistant Dean of Students Michael Andolina has released a tentative sehedule of events for this year's Parents Weekend, May 1 to 3. As soon as a few. more clubs and organizations submit their plans, the schedule will be completed and specific times will be assigned to all events. - Among this year's pnopos~d activities are a Speakers' Forum guest Friday, May l; the campus jog, department receptions, president's reception, and a Glee Club concertSaturftay, May 2; and a fa:rnily brunch and organ recital Sunday, May 3. Prize Day ceremonies will take place at noon Saturday in Memorial Chapel, and the film \A Union of People,\ produced by the . Office · of College Resources, will be shown throughout the weekend. , - This year's Parents Weekend Committee includes student members Huda Abdulati, Cheryl Aylesworth, Steve Cardamone, Dan Cuozzo, Michele DeSimon~, Cher.yl Dowtin, Jackie Gutmann, Carol Hanretta, Tracy Hoffman, and Lisa Lenz. p.m., when the band will begin, March 5. Election of the two and will run until at least 1 a.m. representatives' will take place - Free beer and munchies will be Tu~day, March 10, at Carnegie Also., Ruth-Ellen LeWis, Steve Marsh, Greg Mateja, .Gary Moxham, Kimberle Nogay, · Katie Schatzl, and Carol Talbot are members of the committee. Admlnistrative members in- clude Andolina, Lorraine Marra, and Jane Wood. available, and drinks will cost H~e Alumni Council, is the $1.75 apiece. To g,et to the Americana Inn governing board of Union from ·the College, go down graduates. Each graduating · Poefto Vis it R t 7 t d L th Th class elects two represen- Seamus Heaney, who has OIJ e owar 8 · a am. en tatives. These alumni, through been called the best Irish poet get onto Route 87 (the Nor- u thway), going south. Take Exit committee work and council since Yeats, will visit nion 15 off the Northway and turn meetings, provide input to the next Friday,Feb. 27. Heaney right off the. ramp. The Coll,ege's decision-making will give a talk on \The Americana will be immediately - _p~r_o_ce_s_s_:. ·----------P-ro_c_e_s_s_e_s_o_f ._P .. o-et_i .. c_c_o .. m_-, on the left. .. Pre-Registration Announced If Pre-registration materials for spring term 1980-81 will ~e available at the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Monday, February 23td. Students are urged ~to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the spring term, except for graduating. seniors, must im- mediately give notice of their Plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. Potential March graduates should inform the Office of the- Registrar of their Plans to finish their studies at the end of winter term, if· they have not already done so. Students should confer with FILM p.m. For more information, call Feb. 23-Russell Sage College '2.70•2344. will present the film \Clock- work Orange·\ at 7 and 9:30p.m. MUSIC inthe Schacht Fine ,Arts Center.. . Feb. 20-22-Billy Novic~ ~d For more information call270- Guy VanDuser, those swmgmg 2344. ' musicians . from Boston, will Feb. 24-The Albany PUblic bring the b1g band sounds of the Library Will present the film 30's an~ 40's to the Caffe Lena, \Guess Who's Coming to 45 . Phtla Street •. - Saratoga Dinner,'' starring Spencer Spnngs. For more m~ormation, Trae-y, Katherine Hepburnand call 384-9789. Sidney Poitier. The film will\ be , shown at 2 and 8 p.m. in the Main Library, 161 Washington Avenue. For more information, call 449-3380. · · Feb. 24-.Tbe Junior College of Albany will present the film \My Bodyguard\ at the Student Center -at 11:15 a.m; and 1:30 DANCE Feb. 24,-Union College will · present a demonstration of choreography ~nd dance done by the Jose Limon Dance Company. The demonstration will be held at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. position'' at 4 p.m. in the Schaffer Library Music Room and apoetry reading at 8:30 p.m., also in the Music Room. Both programs are sponsored by IDOL, the College arts magazine. The public is welcome to attend. . Heaney, formerly of Belfast, now lives and teaches in Dublin. He isthe author of Poems 1965;. 1975, Field Work, and Preoc- cupations.: Selected Prose 1968- 1978. Newsweek's Jack Kroll writes in a recent review of He~ney's work, \Heaney adores words: as you read his poetry you can sense him handling words like wine, like -earth, like flesh. \Heaney knows that po~try must produce intense pleasure or it's nothing,\ Kroll says. ''It's this intensity of pleasure that has surely attracted Heaney's thousands of-readers, coupled with a universality of experience that seems to be an Irish specialty.\ 1 A brief discussion period !Vill follow Heaney's afternoon talk. Big Brothers/ Sisters Praised -Gary T. Flynn, executive director of Big Brothers-Big Sisters of Schenectady County, recently lauded the efforts of 1 Union's \Big Brothers and Sisters.\ More than 100 Union students are members of the College's Big Brothers-Big Sisters program this year. In conjunction with the Schenectady County organization, Union .studeJ?-tS · provide the . local commuruty with more than 10,000 hours of volunteer time annually, working with children who have a very .real and urgent need for the companionship, guidance, and resources of an adult friend, .Flynn said. \Union College Big Brothers and Big Sisters,\ Flynn said, \are an invaluable asset to our community. Their impact on the lives of many troubled children and families has in- deed been enormous,\ Prof. Wilson Concert Friday A concert of music for violes, recorder, and harpsichord, featuring Hugh Allen Wilson, professor of music here, and Julian Cole, assistant professor of mathematics at the College, will take place this Friday, Feb. 20, in Memorial Chapel. The concert is free, and the public is welcome to attend. Joining Wilson and Cole will be Barbara Coeyman of Brooklyn College, a celebrated gamba player. With Wilson on harpsichord, Cole on recorder and viol, and Coeyman on viol, the concert will feature such selections as \Air and Divisions, in D\ by John Jenkins, \Sonata II, in D major for Gamba and Harp- sichord,\ by J. S. Bach, and \Concert XLIV: Tombeau les Regrets,\ by Le Sieur de Ste. Colombe. · The program will also include Christopher Simpson's \Duo upon a Ground, in G.~' \Sonata IV in A minor German Flute\ by -G. F. Haendel, and \Variations: La Folia,\ by Marin Marais. collegiate crossword . 3B On the qui vive 11 Boi 1 -· 39 \Monopoly\ piece 12 Severe ACROSS 1 \- you not\ 40 Kind of converted 13 Bowl iog button 5 Denizen at 20,000· loft 16 Ryan and Castle · fathoms 43 Druin sound 20 ''-a man with_..\ 10 Pinocchio, for one 45 \Streets of San 23 Bard's river 14 Right-triangie Francisco\ star 24 Scoring unit ratio ·46- Labyrinth 26 Gregorian - 15 Equabi 1 ity 47 Suffix for hero 27 Ins i go i a on a 17 Type of sax 48 Put first things Cardinal uniform 18 Sociable first 28 Helicopter sound 19 Cakes and ~ 50 Treasury agent 29 Occasionally 20 Dr, Frankenstein's 51 One who con~tantly 30 Public walkway assistant daydreams 31 Left fielder in 21 Cinema - (form 52 Ohio team Abbott and Costello of documentary) 53 So111l1e summers routine 22 Apple coating 54 Husky _vehicle~ 33 Newcomers (slang) 24 Not much more 55 Crystal gazer s ~4 Actress Lee .than a puddle words 36 Multi-purpose 25 Up the - DOWN tool . (in jail) , 37 Use T.L.C. 26 Nat and Natalie 1 Mr. Asimov 38 Author Huxley 27 Nose 2 \Irish Lullaby\ 39 Certain frat 28 Units of little p.la~e brothers care 3 Wopdy Allen movie 40 Sufficient 29 Use a Singer 4 - volente 41 Mystical card 32 Gull's relative 5 -than life 42 Type style 33 The Gold Coast, 6 Start school 43 DemoliShed today 7 State positively 44 Uptight 34 - Hashanah 8 Droop 46 Tiny bit 35 Ghent's river 9 \Grease\ star 49 World chess champ 36 The published word 10 Former Secretary.of of 1~60 37 Very run-down Defense, and fam1ly 50 Prefu for cycle

Page 19 CONOORDIENSIS, Feb'rUQ.ry 19, 1981 - - C ~SSt te BULlETIN BOARD You Canstm Make A Difference While caree.rs in public service may not be as fashionable as they were a decade ago, such careers can be very rewarding and personally satisfying. Reeommendations relating to the tbirdDyear eval118tlon for PhyHis Katden, Acquisitions and Periodicals Librarian, Schitffer Library, are now .being accepted. All interested S!uderits, faculty, and staff are encou.raged · to contact Professor Gerh~n, Library, x6281. SESSION:: F~bruary 26, l981 from 6:30 p.m.-8 :30 · p.m: . Conference J!,oom A-carnegie Hall. Mobil Oil for M.E.'s for Commercial Mktg. on 2 .. 20-31 and 3•2-81 at 9:30 a.m. Bendix Corporation for M.E. 's, I.E.'s Operations Research Majors on 2-1'8-81 and 3-_;l-31 at 3 :30 p.m. After just three months of intensive training at The Institute of Paralegal Training; . you will be prepared to work in government agencies, public service organizations and law firms as a Legal Assistant in the fields of Administrative and Public Law or Criminal Law. You will do work traditionally performed by attorneys. You will work in the dynamic field of government legislation and regulation and be involved in such areas as: Environmental Law, Food Drug and Health Law, Criminal Justice, Equal Opportunity, Welfare, Energy, Photo identification cards for students, faculty and staff are . made and replaced Monday . thru Friday at the College Personnel Office between 9!00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Students must bring the data ba-ckground card with them in order to have .. Thorn MeAn for ~Any Major for Management Training Prog on 2-16-181 and 3·3-81 at 2:.3Q p.m. Central Hudson & Gas for E.E. 's· £or trari'Smission & - distribution,· M.E. 's for' Engr. (Systems Protection Produc- tion} on 2~17.81 and 3..4-81 au :30 , and Product Safety Law. · Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for allcourse work completed at The Institute. We are the nation's first and most respected school for paralegal training, and since 1970, have trained more than 4,000 college graduates from across the country. If you are a senior of high academic standing and looking for a meaningful career, con- tact your Placement Office for an interview with our representative. We will visit your campus on April 7, 1981. 235 South 17th Street Philadelphia, Pa. 19103 (215) 732-6600 . \U.S. Foreign Policy on Soviet expansionism,\ is the topic of the first all campus Intellectual Cabaret discussion. Professors Brown; Gati; and Pelletiere will be there to ex- press their views. If you are interested in hearing the opinions of others .or stating your own, please attend: a ,photo identification card. made up. The data background card is available at the Dean of Students Office -in Carnegie .. There is a five dollar fee .charged for card r~placement. February 20, 8 ·p.m.. in Memorial Chapel there will be a Concert of Music for Violes, Recorder and Harpsichord-- Violes: Barbara Coeyman, Julian Cole-Recorder: Julian Cole-Harpsichord: Hugh Allen Wilson. - Programme Air and Divisions, in D-John Jenkins Duo upon a Ground, in G- Christopher Simpson Sonata IV in a minor for German Flute Larghetto-Allegro-Adagio- Allegro-G. F. Haendel Sonata II, in D major for. Gamba and Harpsichord Adagio-Allegro-Andante- Allegro-J. S. Bach Co~ert XLIV: Tom beau les Regrets--I~e sieur de. Ste. Colombe Tombeau-Carrillon (Apel de Charon)-Les Pleurs-Joye des Elysees Variations: La Folia-Marin Marais; UNION JAZZ ENSEMBLE CONCERT-Fr~ee....;Friday, ]feb. 27 at 8:30, in Memorial Chapel. Monday night, st'arting at 9 - p.m., in the Cabaret Room. There will be a GUEE CLUB , CONCERT 'on . Sunday, Additions to CAREER February 22 at 3 PM in WORKSHOP · SCHEDULE: Me~orial Chapel. Resume Writing, Monday, February 23, 4:30 p.m.; Sum- CAMPUS MINISTRY MASS- mer J.obs, Tuesday, February Sunday, Feb. \22nd Reverend 24, 4:00. Sign up in advance at Erwin Schweigardt. The Career Center. Physics Department Notice: Recommendations relating to the third-year evaluation for Dr. Jay Newman of the Physics Dep~rtment are now being - accepted. All interested facu1ty and students are encouraged to contact the Physics Depart- ment office, Science . and Engineering Center, N 308, or call ext. 6254. There will be an informal workshop on \Social Drinking and Alcohol Abuse\ Thursday, February_ 26, 4th Floor Lounge, Carnegie Hall. The focus of the workshop is on how to recognize and cope with the problem drinker. All are welcome. For more information call Michael Andolina at 370-6061 or Brion Carroll at 370-6117. Recommendations relating t6 the third-year evaluation for Bruce Connolly, Reference and Interlibrary Loan Librarian, Schaffer Library, are now being accepted. All interested students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to contact Professor Gerhan, Library, x6281. SENIORS: The deadline for Graduation AnnolHlcements is March 1st. The following is a list of companies and positions and dates. Connecticut General Life Insurance for entry level positions in UNDERWRITING, SALES, AND CLAIMS, DATA PROCESSING TRG. PROG., ACTURIAL ·TRAINING, PENSION VALUATION on 2-11- 81, 2-24-81, 2-23-81 at 3:30p.m.- Orientation Session in Strauss Lounge from 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.nn~ . Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. of New York for all majors for Treasurer's Div. on 2-17-81 and 2-26-31 at 1:30 p.m. Prudential Ins. Co. for Math Majors for Actuarial Training Program on 2-16-81 and 2-27-81 at 2:30p.m. Alco Power Inc. for BS-ME's and IE's for Management Trainee Program for Sales & Mktg. on 2-17-81 and 2-27-81 at 1:30 p.m. I B M Poughkeepsie. for BS- ME's instead EE's; Math·CS majors-Inf. Sys. for Compu~er on 2-17-81 and 2-27-81 at 1:30 p.m. ORIENTATION p.m. Federal Reserve Bank of New York for BS\CS for Systems and Data Processing on 2..;25-31 and · 3-5-81 at 9:30 a.m. Kamyr, Inc. for BS-MS · M.E. 's with some background in Computer Science for- Mechanical Design on- 2-2fi-81 · and 3~5-81 at 9:30a.m. U.S, Air Force for pilots, navigators, Engineers, Math and Physics Majors on 2-23-81 and 3-5-81 at 1:15 p.m. Aetna Life & Casualty for Any major for sales-sales management on 2-23-81 and' 3-6- 81 at 10 :30 a.m. Upstate Computer Center for CS Majors. More information · later on 2·25-81 and 3-9.:81 at 9: 30 a.m. _ IBM·.- Armonk for Math, CS, Eco.-, Bus. Admin. or other majors for Programming .!JB 3- 2-81_ and 3-11-81 at 9:30 a.m. .New York Life Ins. Company for Majors with strong Mathematical background (must have passed one ac- . tuarial exam) -for Acturial Trainees on 2-25-81 and 3-13-81 · at 9:30a.m. Sy~co for MBA's, Eco, Bus. Admin, Mth for Sales ~nd Marketing on 3-4-81 and 3-31-81 at 1:30 p.m.· - Merchant's Ins. Co. for BS, BA's for. Claim Adjuster · Trainee. Any Major on 3-9-81 and 4-2-81 at 1:30 p.m. FAMILY CONFLICT, DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, AND _ . HOMICIDE, Jane Carol Glendinning, J.D. Project Director of Governor's Task Force on Domestic Violence, Albany, New York will speak on Thursday, Feb. 19, 1981; 3:30 p.m., Room 117, Social Science Building, Uulon College. CHILD CUSTODY AND THE LAW: LEGAL IMPLICATIONS OF THE SOVIET-U.S. CUSTODY CASE--Judge Howard A. Levine, Justice of the Supreme Court, 4th Judicial District, State of New York will . speak on Thursday, Feb. 26J 1981; 4::30 p.m., Room 117, Social Science Builc:Ung,. Union College. WANTED Wanted: Used pair of hoekey skates in good condition-Men's size 9 or 9% preferably better make with Tuuk blades-- Contact Adam at 372..0172 'PERSO-NALS Male: Average height, slightly ·less than . average weight, blonde, intellig~nt, lots of laughs, understandmg, two seldom used thumbs, but two good ears, copfused,. beer drinker. fights fire with fire, available. Happy B-day (BC- . day and D-day) l wuv you. __ :Sts! I Becker--wasn't. your bt:!d in our house good enough for you? Get welhsoon, we miss you- PSK and LS - \Doo-We often· tnmk of you. Please give us a clue on what's . up·with you. MargQ and Kitnbo. KA-A · wil_d, Thursday night Bambi and Eric--Break a • party at our .place. Wine on.tap legt--PSK and LS · but .bQngs badly needed'. MiSs you. All, Margo, Kim and Iris. Dear BENT- I hope you are feeling better. I'Udo anything I Dear Suites; Found .a can to help you along. Just replacement for J.D., but . name it.-,French Bordello . nothing replaces you. Miss you, love Beanie.· · · Carol and D()nna--tbree new nnembers of the Richard Wad - · RIM:-:.Enjoying doip.g it great society .... this week! When is with authentic• Gteek . sailors. · their initiation? -Pledge! DES-,.Don~t -~ even 'stop, Lycabettus is best at 2,3, play, . play, play, the. mind'~ ok. Nancy-iCorigratulations, we knew you could do it! After all, a one thousandbatting. average. We love y.ou. Ronnie-Joel never showed but he might get. it anyw~w. I Gonad-digging the room? . Squat'-digging the cold? Hoh, baby. ·. .· - All-where's 1 all my mail, ingrates? RB Jiz-have you invited them to dinner yet? P,B.'s-N.R. lives in Ell!l'ope. Stonio-the log. would enhance perfection. Fig. Think Disc-Spring is coming and the Crittersar.e-:going to fly. Get ready. for the movement. Leana-thinkin' about you- freak -Rock--1 want to be your lichen! Taryn, my pilgrimmage to the motherland is coming along great. Have great stories ~bout the_. Gods to tell you.-~The Inspector. · RayJay-Eating, drinking and shacking up thr~ugh Eut:ope. Nevin-Making a side trip to Chile. Will think of you while there-Peter and Karen. Nevin--Is Chile on Eurail? Peter and Karen. Hi Vicky and Larry-Petros. Chuckj); Greek style-it'S the only-way! I miss you! Love, Orgy. ADP-Helpl Soil our blood with L'arge Brown Package of extra-terrestial · delights. The well~hung Crew. Ancient . space, cloning in Ouzo; J ah in the next 4000 years. Send bowling beer ahd bon_gs;- Moptop Yitand Chuck-Don't work too hard. - Dear Zeta Beta You-Know- . Whats-We love you. TFSF 250-Here's to Crazy Eight, soggy popcorn, sixes,. Bruce, twos, prank pnone calls, nines, and damn good times! Let's see a rerun soon! Cripple T.R.-Here's the personal I promised you-1 love you anq I miss you here-....Mikey. M2-Miss you-Love F .R.· ~-~----------------- Happy B-day Susie G. Dot! Hope it's happy-Miss you-E&A Successful. Cor8e:rs Don't Just Happen , At the Institute for Paralegal Training we have prepared over 4,000 college graduates for careers in law, business and finance. After Just three months of.intensive training, we will place you in a stimulating and challer~ging position that offers professional growth .and expanding career opportunities. As a Legal Assistant you will do work traditiona-lly performed by · attorneys and otiJer professionals in law firms, corporations, banks, government agencies and insurance companies. Furthermore, you will eam graduate credit towards a Master · of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch S.chool of Law for all courseworkcompleted at The Institute. We are regarded as the nation's finest and most prestig- ious program for training legal specialists for law·firms, business.and finance. But, as important as our academic· quality is our placement result. The Institute's placement serv:ice will fit:rdyou ajob in the city of your choice. If not, you will be eligible for a substantial tuition refund. ' If you are a senior in highacademicstanding and Jooking for the most practical way to beginyour career, contact your Placement Office for an interview with our representative. • We will visit your campus on: APRIL 7, 1981 The Institute for Paralegal Training (Operated by Para-Legal, Inc ) Approved by The American Bar Association· Programs Earn Full Credit Toward MAin Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law. · - l A: said SUfi net Satt poir afte wee Stat four The espE Dut Eng evei two· be hi Tl sam few ov.ez tean s \1 mis Me)' pool mee Forl did J Uni< dest Se by fl yare (200· Wei• Sopl his (Un] plac SUC< stro1 L~ agai A Jo as 1\ Joe': care mak . Divi: Jo, Peax seni< High StatE the 1 Tear Jo~ for l recr~ Bill, fine a gail was ever· His· dece Alba a ceo· point Dutc slum mid< team crow Wt Alba: drov1 in a 1 clute scorE new With and 1 sec01 With the !l

you. night Miss Iris. d a but you, great to to s the blood of The in ears. s see Dot! E&A ill ers er · all ur CONOORDIENSIS, Febnwry 19, 1981 Page 11 sports . Tracksters Lack Luster SPORTS HAPPENINGS Feb. 19-26 By ED MEINKE • As Elissa Sanchez has often ·said, the only thing you can be sure about Union track team is not being sure of anything. Saturday's meet was a case in point, as the Garnet tracksters, after a fine performance two weeks ago, lost to rivals Albany State and RPI. Siena finished fourth, and last, in the meet. The loss to RPI was an especially bitter pill for the Dutchmen to swallow. The Engineers won the last two events of t:he day, the one- and two-mile relays, to come from behind to ,beat Union. The story fGr Union was the same as it has been all season-a few quick times but not e.nough ov.erall depth for a winning team performance. Four Union competitors won their events, but only ten Dutchmen placed in the meet. This lack of depth was particularly noticeable rn the sprint events where Union was o.utscored by Albany, 26 to 1. The top individual per- formance by a Union runner was in the 3,000 meters, where Ed Arnheiter won in a quick 8:5S. Also posting wins for Union were Henry Wright in the triple jump with a mark of 45'8\ Brad Kline in the 35- pound weight. toss with a throw o:f 13.35 meters and Denny Contois first in the hal£ mile with a time of 2:01. Contois also placed fourth in the 1;500 meters with a time of 4:05, the equivalent of a 4:23 mile. Also 1 placi.Ilg in the meet for Union were Lynwood Wade, second in the shot; Jim Zalucki, Swimmers Split \My favorite racing suit is missing! \ So went Chris Meyer's explanation .for his poor performance inSaturday's meet against Utica and Hobart. Fortunately, Meyer's affliction did not extend to the rest of the Union swim team, as they destroyed Utica, 82-27. Season's bests were turned in by freshmen Ron Newbold (100- yard freestyle), Kyle Cotugno (200•yard backstroke) and Dave Weick (200-yard breaststroke). Sophomore Chris Howd pleased his grandfather, Albert Howd (Union, 1916) by c()pping a first place in the 50-yard free. Union succumbed, however, to a strong Hobart team, 72-35. Last Wednesday's meet against RPI was the team's last Joe Clinton has been chosen· as Miller Athlete of the Week. Joe's impressive high school career has flourished at Union, making him a highly rated . Division III player. Joe is a sophomore from Pearl River, N.Y. During his senior year at Albertus Magnus High, he led the teann to the State finals and was selected to the third All New York State Team. Joe has been a brilliant player for Unioq and certainly a great recruiting success for Coach Bill Scanlon. Among his many fine performances, his play against Albany Monday night was near flawless. Joe did everything but dunk the hall. His cat-like moves and deceptive ·passes split the Albany defense all game. He accounted for 7 of the first 11 points for Union. When the Dutchmen seemed to be slumping, Joe would drive the middle and find an open teammate for a layup in a home meet of the season. It was not much of a finale, as Union lost, 69-39. Ron Newbold swam his best 200 freestyle, and Cotugno and Meyer swam strong backstroke and breaststroke legs, respectively, in the opening relay. A Channel 13 camera crew arrived just in time to catch a highly photogenic Dave Weick nab a third place in the 200 breast. C()ach Bob Magee's swim- mers are now 3 ... 7 for the season and are starting to gear up for the state championship meet. The team takes this opportunity to thank Bob Rydings, Bill West, and its managers, Margo and Jean, for their assistance at home meets. Clinton leads the team in assists with 118 (more than 5 per game). He is second in scoring and is an 80 percent foul shooter. Joe's basketball ability has complemented Joe Cardany crowd of Albany defenders. ._ When the tally was 64~1, ~ Albany in the lead, Clinton :U ~rove along the lane and tossed ..J In a highly contested layup and ~ clutch foul shot to even the ~ score .at 64-:U~· This gave Union : . new hfe until Albany came up .o With a loose. rebound followup o and the clinching shot with two { . s~conds remaining. Joe ended w1th 20 points and 7 assists in the game. . Athlete-of-the-Week Joe Clinton third in the pole vault at 13 feet; Dave Dellehunt, second in the 1,000-meters; Jack Connor, third in the 1,ooo-meter run; -Darr~ll Logan, fourth in the 45- meter dash; and Bob Pavacic, fourth in both the shot put and the 35-pound Weight throw. The Union mile relay team, led by John Stimmel's 53.7 second split, finished third in 3:36, the team's fastest .clocking of the season. The Dutchmen, now 5-7 for the year, take on Dartmouth, Columbia and Brown this Saturday. Hockey Preview: Varsity Basketball Varsity Hockey Feb. 20 at Babson Feb. 24at Yale Feb. 19 at North Adams F:eb. 24 at New Haven Women's Basketball Feb. 19 vs. Skidmore Feb. 20 & .21 Capitol District Tourney at Union Feb. 23 vs. Hartwick Varsity Swimrni ng Feb. 21 at Utica Skaters Conclude .Season By DOUG SILVERSTEIN The Skating Dutchmen have two games remaining, North Adams and New Haven, both away games. North. Adams has a 13-7-1 overall record (10·7 in Division II) in contrast to the Union record of 5-19-1 (5-18-1 in Division II). There's the major difference. North Adams \knows that they're just about in the playoffs and a win against Union would just about seal it,\ according to the Sports Infor· mation Director of North Adams. Leading scorers for NA are Jimmy Moore (21 goals, 18 assists - 39 points) and Chris Smith (29 points). Tom Moffitt is a force to be reckoned with, because he has tallied 26 points in just 15 games this season. Moore, like Union's Todd Fobare, was once named ECAC at the guard position. Joe was a highly recruited baseball player in high school. He is an economics major who worked as an Orientation Advisor last fall. Player of the Week. Fobare of Union continues to be .followed in scoring by Don Beall and the impressive freshman Joe Caruso. Goaltender Artie Jean sup- ports a 4.85 goals against average while earning nine of North Adams' ·13 wins. The Union defense continues to suffer from player shortages and the goaltending duties seem to have been handed to Mike Merlo, the veteran, although Bart Brooks is available. North Adams is a hard skating team that eyes the Union game as another building block for post-season play. It is a \relatively young team\ that has as its nucleus a young contingency of players. North Adams sees Union's problems this year possibly in part due to problems in player changeover. Union must also face New Haven on the road, in a con- clusion to their long season. One similarity does exist here. Like Union, New Haven has ex:- perienced a disappointing season and \needs a couple -of wins to salvage salvation to go into ne:Jrt season with a positive attitude.\ New Haven has faced a tough schedule Hke the Garnet, once being forced to play four road games in one week. New Raven's record is 7- 16 (4-15 in Division II) including three wins against Divisi<ln III opponents. Scott Brazis is a sophomore center, who leads NH in scoring with a total of 39 points. He remains one of the ECAC Division East top scorers. Don Lord has contributed 31 points while Marty Crouse has chipped in 25 markers. One devastating blow to the NH season was the temporary loss of forwards Tom Gentile and Gene Lom- bardi. Gentile has missed seven games while Lombardi has missed five. Last year, the two together provided needed of- fensive punch that has been sorely missed this year. Defensively, NH is led by Gary Lindgren, while no goaltender has a GAA under five per game. The team has been hurt drastically by the weak goaltending that has been suffering from the graduation of Jim McQuade, an outstanding goalie for the ·previous four years. New Haven is \~a team with which Union can empathize. Both teams expected victorious seasons and emerged as two of the poorer Division II. teams. The game should not be a contest of ineptitude, though, but one of pride and integrity. I would like to take the op- portunity to make some general comments an the Union hockey season. Concerning the offense, it became apparent that the Dutchmen are suffering from a lack of team speed; in fact, two of the team's swiftest skaters, Joe CarllSo and Kyle Woodman, were both freshmen. In ad- dition, with the exception of the recent loss to Williams and the opening minutes of the a-a loss to Merrimack, Union skaters seem to lose out in the corners much too often. The best cor- nermen were Dan O'Neil and Brad Nicholson, the latter player missing part of the season due to injury. Not all was bad for Union. Todd Fobare had an out- standing year until a late season sllnnp. In addition, Mark Bon and Joe Caruso emerged as two very capable scorers, while another freshman, Kyle Woodman, provided gutsy forechecking for the Garnet. Dan O'Neill played an enlightening and aggressive game and seems to be a spark- plug for Union. Defensively, Union severely lacks from a rushing defen· seman. AI DiLibero had an outstanding year and most resembles the kind of two-way defenseman Union needs. Dave Ferguson provided steady play, as did Bill Wall and Jim Burns. Ben Maynard had a typical freshman year, one marked by excellence and hesitation. However, it is corning to the point that the other Union defensemen have no excuses for the continued amount of breaka ways by opposing teams. One final point is necessary for a defenseman who can shoot the power play from the point. In review, I feel that the return nex:t year of the injured Scott Fitzgerald will make this an even better crew. The goaltending is the easiest position to criticize because it is the most exposed position on the ice. However, one cannot blame Mike Merlo nor Bart Brooks totally for the lapses. Merlo had some good games at season's end and should be a stabilizing force next year. The book has just opened for Bart Brooks, who had a terribly inconsistent, but somewhat promising fresh· man year. The last two games for Union mark the end of a long and frustrating season. However, along with the rest of the College community, I thank the Dutchmen for their efforts and can honestly say that we, as a school, have not been let down.

Page 12 OONOORDIENSIS, February 19, 1981 sports_ .... Ill s: .... Ill ....1 Ill > Ill i/; >- .0 0 .... 0 .c a. Seek ECAC Bid: . _/ - Cagers! Playoff Hopes Alive Joe Clinton dashes off assist Skiers Awesome By INGEMAR The Union ski team put together the finest performance in College history 'last weekend, capturing a third place team trophy at the season's final Division II ski meet hosted by Colgate University at Mystic Mountain, in Ca:zenovia, N.Y. Focus of the excitement throughout the two days of Alpine and Nordic competition was the rivalry between the Union Dutchmen and the U.S. Army Cadets, as tlle two teams vied for fifth place in the season's overall standings, and the consequent invitation to compete in the NCAA Eastern Team that will.compete against women's teams frQm other colleges in the eastern United States, at Williams College this coming weekend. Freshman Kent Avery sur- prised the seasoned veterans in the men's 15--km. competition when he blew by almost all of them to finish a hard fought Championships. .._ By MIKE CANNING The Dutchmen basketball team continued in high gear this week disposing of Division II power Hartwick and the vastly improved Middlebury Panthers before being deged out by visiting Albany State. It was a week which saw Union run its record to 11-10, a remarkable record considering that the Dutchmen were 4-8 only three weeks ago. It was also a week which saw Senior Joe Cardany break former Union great Jim Tedisco's aU-time school scoring record of 1,632 points. Cardany's first shot of the second half against Hartwick, a 15-foor jtimper from the right side of the foul line, .ripped the chords and put his name in the record books. The 5'1()\ senior captain scored 12 first-half points to pace Union to a 34-27 lead. Hartwick, a perennial Division II NCAA qualifier, tried to make a run against the Dutchmen, but could never get Already after the first run of ~ Saturday morning's slalom ~ event, the Union racers had .....J demonstrated their desire to ~ win and to beat Army. Rising to .$E the occasion after a series of IJ') \rocky\ slalom finishes earlier il in the season's competition, -@ Fred Thimm came in fourth ..c: place after the first run, and c. then turned on the juice in the second run to finish in the number two spot. Joe Cardany accepts plaque commemorating career scoring record from former record holder Jim Tedisco and Coach Bill Scanlon. closer than the seven point halftime margin. Union employed a spread offense for most of the second half .. Cardany led the team's scoring production with 23 points a.., the final score was 75- ,65. John Montanile (15 points, 11 rebounds), John Jarosak (14 points, 7 rebounds), and Joe Uvegas (9 points, 7 rebounds) proved to be too, much for the taller Warriors and paced Union to its second consecutive upset -of the Division II otr ponent. Friday night's rematch against the Middlebury Pan- thers was closer than the first contest between the two squads that Union won by nearly 20 points. It took two John Jarosak foul shots with six seconds left in overtime to secure a Union victory, 61.,60. Jarosak, a 6'2\ junior forward, continued his outstanding play as he scored 11 points, pulled down 8 rebounds, and dished off 8 assists. Joe Uvegas continued his dominance on the boards, snaring 8 rebounds. Joe Car- dany added to his own scoring record as he contributed 23 points. The victory was Union's seventh in its last eigllt games. On Tuesday, the · Danes of Albany State visited Memorial Fieldhouse for the Dutcllmen's last home game of the year. More than 2,000 people, the largest crowd in more than four years, turned out to watch the Capital District rival, as well as to honor Joe Cardany on his night. The senior captain received a plaque from Jim Tedisco and a scholarship in Cardany's name was presented to Robert Massa, ,Director of Financial Aid, from the brothers of Sigma Chi Fraternity, where Joe is president. The game against Albany was the last home game for Cardany, as well as for his fellow seniors John Ktum and Mike Canning. Union .fell behind early and was forced to play catch-up ball the rest of the game. Albany kept Union at hay .until the last 24 seconds of the game when Joe Clinton's three-point play tied the score, 64~4. Albany came downcourt and senior Pete Stanish launched a baseline jumper which hit the front ritn and bounced out to the foul line. Albany's Ray Cesare picked up the loose ball, turned, shot, and scored. There were two seconds left on the clock and the score stood at 66~4. Union tried a full colirt pass to the center, John Montanile, but time ran out as he attempted a pass to Cardany. Union had come back only to fall short in the final second. The backC()urt of Cardany and Clinton scored 41 points, 21 and 20, respectively. Union Coach Bill Scanlon expressed the respect he felt .for his comeback cagers. \A few weeks ago, I made some comments about the team that appeared in the press and I told them I wasn't going to apologize. Well, tonight I extend them an apology. This team has · earned my respect.'? Union heads into the final week· of the season with three away games remaining. Good performances in the last three games should secure an ECAC playoff berth for the Dutchmen. Team captain Jeff Ince dazzled his competitors with an all-out, verge-of-disaster first run that earned a fifth place. A ski-tip hooked on a gate near the top of the slalom course on his second run caused lnce to fall and to drop out of the slalom competition. third behind two former U.S. p k Eastern Ski Team members uc Qters skiing for Colgate. Improving 0 · · Suffer Defeats Nipping at Fred Thimm's heels the entire se~on, Tom Sargent again sapported the Union team with his reliable consistency pairing two fluid runs to finish in fourth. Saturday aftern()on the Union ski team won the giant slalom event with enough points to secure first place in the com- bined Alpine competition. The Union racers placed three people in the top ten-a truly awesome performance. Fred Thimm displayed paramount simplicity and economy of motion in his first place victory ahead of Clarkson College's second place finisher. Tom Sargent won third place for the second time this season, finishing less than .30 seconds off Thimm's winning time of 57.61 seconds. More than making up for his fall in the slalom, Jeff Ince took a sixth and ruined any hopes that the West Point team might have had for a strong showing in the Alpine. In the Nordtc events, Colleen and Donna Morris competed for the first time in their collegiate careers against women instead . of men. They were rewarded for their efforts, easily winning first and second place in the women 15--km. cross-country race. Their outstanding ability earned both the Morris sisters spots on the DiVision II All Star with every competition, Mark \ Arienti took tenth place last weekend. With two racers in the top ten and sophomore Rod McClain in 18th, the Union Nordic squad finished the season with its best performance ever. Throughout the winter's competition the cross country racers, both men and women, on the Union ski team have consistently im- proved to the point where they will, at the beginning of next season, present a formidable challenge to any other Nordic team in Division IT. In addition to taking home a silver bowl as symbol of their third place finish, the Union ski team is sending seven com- petitors to the Eastern Championships this coming weekend. Fred Thimm, Tom Sargent, and Jeff Ince will compete for Union in the Alpine events. Kent A very and Mark Arienti will be racing the 15-km. cross-country event and Colleen and Donna Morris will represent Union women in the Nordic events at Williams College. By SCOTT FITZGERALD The Union Skating Dutchmen suffered two more losses over the past week, suffering an 8-3 loss to the Merrimack Warriors. while also dropping a 3-2 overtime deCision at the hands of the Williams Ephmen. On Saturday, the Dutchmen hosted perennial powerhouse Merrimack. Union started out slowly in the early moments, allowing the Warriors to score just 16 seconds into the opening period. , - -~...,. Union came back to even the score minutes later when Don Beall fed fellow winger Bill Wall in front of the net, and Wall fired a high shot over the sprawling Merrimack net- minder. Merrimack came back seconds later, however, with a power play goal ·to put them- selves ahead, 2-1. Union came back late in the period when Brad Nicholstein made a long pass to Jim Josephson, who broke through the Warrior defense to score a colorful tying goal. Merrimack came back to turn the tide Union on the ropes going into the final period. The Garnet's hopes for an upset were diminishing with Merrimack leading 6-2 entering the final peJ:iod. Union at- tempted a comeback on a crisp, clean goal from Don Beall which brought Union within three. However, Merrimack took control of the reins for the last time. Merrimack put their potent power play in motion and scored two more .goals to close out the game with an 8-3 vic- tory. Despite the eight goals scored on goalie Mike Merlo, he per- formed solidly, kicking away a total of 54 shots throughout the contest. On Thursday night the Out· chmen played host to the Williams Ephmen, and suffered a 3-2 overtime defeat. Union played a strong game but were shocked by the Ephmen tell minutes into the overtime period. Mike Merlo turned in another solid . performance, kicking away a total of 48 shots. Picking up goals for Union were Bill Wall and Dan O'Neill, with assists going to Dave Ferguson, TodaFobare, Joe Caruso and Jim Josephson. The Dutchmen have onlY three games remaining in their schedule and have already been eliminated from the playoff scene. Their record now stands at 5-19-1. This has been the most suc- cessful ski team at Union College ever. The Union racers nave a lot to be proud about. again, scoring two more goals a; 0k!i:l;iis'.i9ii:Xt-\·'~·- in the second period to place E ~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ Block U Meeting Thursday at 7:00 .3 ......__ .. ~- Sophomore Tod Fobare centering puck against Merrimack FridaY night. · I ·; ' J ~ j I ~ c .J '

Aid, Chi is against game for his and and -up ball Albany the last when play urt and a hit the to the Cesare turned, were clock to but a had in 21 Union pressed his A few some that I told to has final three Good three ECAC Dut· to the suffered Union were tell in shots. were with uso and onlY in their been playoff stands k FridaY ;/) 'tl ... l1l L u ~ Ill ·;: l1l .s:: u >- .0 0 .... 0 ..r:: c. Hale House and Old Chapel will not be opeh for uppe·rclass dining the next two weekends. Steinmetz Student Speaks The Steinmetz Honors Seminar is one of the most ~sunderstood aspects of the College. Following is an in~ terview with senior Rob McH11gh, who has completed a term's work in the seminar. In future issues Concordiensis will 15e talking With other students and professors, using interview and non-interview formats, to increase awareness of the seminar. · Compiled By ANDY SOBEL about grades to the exclusion of everYthing else? . McH: Yes, not to the total exclusion of everything else, of course, but having our papers graded, or being tested in the readings, would have been totally out of place with the rest this course. C: How do you feel about the Steinmetz's reputation as being, shall we say, elitifit? parently for the better. The impression I get is that the students in the class this term, as those in the class last winter (myself included) on the whole didn't take full advantage of the potential of the class. The seminar is what the students make of it, and for the most part, the students didn't take advantage of this, probably because it is a .concept not found in their other courses. C: Well, tMnk yor; sport. February 26, 1981 Volume 110, Number 16 · On Weekends: Hale Closed By JILL BRYCE Hale House is no longer open on weekends. The decision to close the upperclass dining hall was made about five weeks ago when it was noticed that there was a small number of students dining at Hale for weekend meals. Jan Gray, acting director of the Food Service, explained that the decision to close Hale on weekends was based on \low participation by students. Even though there were a few students coming in for weekend meals, there was still the need to employ a full staff. As a result, Friday and Saturday were not operating efficiently, since we were not breaking even, but losing up to $400 each weekend. The · Food Service tries to operate as efficiently as possible. Keeping Hale open on weekends was not cost ef- ficient.\ Ms. Gray, who has been acting director of the Food Service since ~gelo Mazzone ~eft1ast fall, said plans for Hale \at the present are to remain open seven days a week during rrext- ye-ar's\ fall t~rm:- As for next winter term, the pattern of this year will be repeated. That is, initially Hale will open for weekends but if there is a continued decline in the number of students, as there was this term, the dining hall will again erose on weekends. This spring, Hale will be open for the first through fifth weekends and if participation is high we will remain open . \There is also the option that Hale will be closed for Friday dinner and open for Sunday dinner. Our main concern is satisfactory service to our customers. The Food Service is open to options. It is important for customers to talk to managers and staff.\ Ms. Gray added that \Hale House will be open the weekend of exams, March 14 and 15, to accomodate the larger number of students who remain on campus that weekend.\ . She concluded by stressing the fact that there is \a good system of open communication between Food Service staff and customers. The main concern is satisfactory service.. for- . -the .student.\ CONCORDffiNSIS: Which seminar did you take, with whom, and when? McH: Before the. course started, I was afraid it would be somewhat elitist, but looking back now, I don't see that there was that much of -an \elite\ distinction to be made. Students H·ere· React: McHugh! The course was entitled 1 'The Logic of Inquiry\ with Professors Ludwig, Nichols, and Peak, and I took it Winter Tetm 1979-1980. C: Can you explain the format of this class? McH: Each session consisted of four or five students'papers, being discussed by tbe class. For each paper, there would be one student to star-t the discussion before it would be opened to the rest of the class. C: Did you like the course? Why or why not? McH: Yes, because it was different than any class I'd ever taken before. It dealt with the philosophy behind the sciences, social sciences, and humanities, thus requiring a different kind of thinking than what is demanded in other courses. Perhaps if I had a stronger background in philosophy, the seminar may not have ap- peared as different and I wouldn't have appreciated it as much. C: If it had been another type of Steinmetz Seminar, do you think you would have been chosen? McH: That's hard to say. I'm not really sure how the nomination process worked, but I imagine that the criteria used would not be that different for one Steinmetz course than another. C: Was the stress put on oral or written communication? McH: The emphasis was on oral participation. In most cases, the discussion would lead awa,y from the paper, more so than it should have, I feel. As for grades, the students couldn't tell what they were going to get. Grades were definitely de- emphasized. C: Do you think they went about' this specific grading procedure because they ex- pected students who didn't care C: What were your precon- ceptions? McH: I .was very ap- prehensive about this seminar just on the fact that it was a new concept and I really didn't know what to expect. I thought it would be very experimental, which it was, but I was also afraid it would be a class of pseudo-intellectuals, which it wasn't. C: You liked the course, but did it live up to your ex- pectations? McH: Yes, in that it exposed me to a type of thinking which was missing from my other courses. We were told that that was the· purpose of the course, and in that sense it was suc- cessful. G: Would you recommend it? To which people, and why? McH: For those students with narrow goals of some career or some graduate school who only look at college as a stepping stone, this course would be virtually useless. I'd recom- mend to those who want to expand their sphere of knowledge, to those who ex- press some natural intellectual curiosity. C: Have you talked with other students who have since ex- perienced the Steinmetz Seminar, .since filling out the course evaluation? McH: I've talked with some students who are presently taking the exact same course (Logic of Inquiry), with Professors Ludwig, Peak, and Weiner. C: From what you have been able to ascertain, has the faculty made any im- provements in the seminar along the lines you would have deemed generally profitable for all concerned'! Please be specific, if you can. McH: They have changed the reading list somewhat, ap- Aid Cut ~reposed By HELEN CORDES College Press Service WASHINGTON, D.C. (CPS)- Making good on promises to try to restructure and cut j)ack on federal education programs, the Reagan administration wants to reduce its support for education by 20 percent by 1982, and in the process decrease financial aid to disadvantaged, minority and middle-income students. The cuts, announced by Reagan in a Feb. 18 address to Congress, would slash overall outlays to education of $5.2 billion by a sixth at first and more later, This would be part of a program reducing federal spending by $41.4 billion for fiscall982, which begins Oct. 1. Reagan's proposal advocates undoing much of the Middle Income Student Assistance Act- -a measure that took the Carter administration two years to navigate through Congress-and replacing most college programs with two huge block grants. Millions of other students will be touched by the recom- mended cuts in Guaranteed Student Loan (GSL), National Direct Student Loan (NDSL) and Pell Grant (formerly Basic Educational Opportunity Grants) financial aid funding. Under the plan, in which the government underwrites loans to students and parents at low interest rates, money would be provided only after remaining sources of aid were accounted for in determining a student's need. The government would also drop ''in-school if!terest sub- sidies.\ Under the current system, students repay back loans for tuition at nine percent interest rates, while the government pays the difference between nine percent and the regular interest rates banks charge other customers. If the plan is approved, students and parents will have to pay the regular market in- terest rates on the loans, about 20 percent. Reagan and Stockman also want to cut entirely federal supportofNDSLs. Now the four percent loans are awarded to students when the students' schools agree to put up 10 percent of the money needed. The government would then put up the remaining 90 percent at favorable interest rates. The federal government would phase out its supports of NDSLs in 25 percent increments over the next four years. Finally, 286,000 students would be cut from the Pell Grant program in both 1981 and 1982. The Carter administ-ration's Middle Income Student Assistance Act made students from families that earn more than $15,~0 eligible for Pell Grants for the first time just recently, in the 1979-80 academic year. The Reagan proposal, however, would make many of those students ineligible again by restricting Pell Grants to students from families making less than $25,000 a year, which is now the national median family income. All three of the student aid programs . are already the subject of legislation proposed by the Carter administration. Carter's final education budget, released just days before the Reagan inauguration, asked for a $600 million cut in the GSL program, for a $100 million cut in NDSLs, and for dropping the maximum Pell Grant from $1900 to $1260 per student per academic year. Those relatively-modest proposals moved lobbyist Steve Leifman of the Coalition of Independent College and University Students to predict that \a lot of students could be wiped out\ if the proposals passed. The Union Reaction Many students here ex- pressed concern about how the cuts will affect them. Some predicted they would not be able to continue going to Union if the federal aid they receive is reduced. About three-quarters of the student body receives some kind of financial aid, according to Financial Aid Director Robert J. Massa. \Only the rich will be able to afford school,\ said sophomore Dave Smith. Senior Jim Fisher, who serves as the Student Forwn 's Financial Vice President, and knows something about allocating funds himself, thought that \a college like Union may not be able to sur- vive if students can't get the federal loans and grants to make ends meet.\ \But he added, \most of the slack will probably be picked up by private institutions. And the federal budget needs to be kept under control. It's just too bad students have to be affected.\

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, February B6, 1981 Editorials: Brightening the Image Three weeks before exams, the chances are slim that many of us are spending large amounts of time remembering what it felt like to apply to Un·ion or to come for an interview. The chances are just as sUm that we're spending a lot of time wondering what it will be like to be an alumnus. Howeve·r, both of these are important phases of our lives. These times are important to the College also. It is these two reasons which account for the Stanley Becker Hall and ·the Union movie, entitled 'A Union of People.' Stanley Becker Hall, formerly old Gym Hall, was recently renovated and transformed into the new Admissions Office. Whlle the building was totally renovated, it was done in the same style as South College, Hale House and the Old Chapel. This building sheuld add to the welcome of prospective freshmen. The inside is bright and spacious and welcomlng. The movie, ·made under the supervision oi Robert Rasmussen, Director of College Resources, attempts, among other things, to reacquaint alumni with their school. The objective of those who worked on it was to show that while times, faces and buildings may have changed, the spirit of the College has not. From the opening scenes, it is obvious that their goal has been accomplished. The spirit and feelings of this campus and its people have somehow been cap~ tured and eloquently expressed in the 18~mililute production. · Basically, the movie revolves around the lives of the ,people on campus. The tremendous opportunity offered and the ·quality of the experience play a large part in the appeal of the film. It seems to end only seconds after it begins. Scenes of The Nott or walking in the fall foliate bring back memories of fall terms past for everyone. It is not without feelings of regret that the audience watches the graduation sequence end and, with it, the movie. It seems as if there should be more. It is not hard to imagine that this is your graduation day and the feelings of regret come from its being your last formal function at Union. Although we believe the main objective of the movie, portraying the spirit of Union, has been met with enormous success, we also have a few general criticisms. One is that the science and engineering departments have been given an overriding emphasis in the film. The other departments at Union have achieved the same amount of academic excellence .. Consequently, they should not ltave been so consistently overlooked, even in order to present other at- tributes. A great part of the spirit of the school comes from these areas. Also, sports and fraternities were emphasized at the expense of other activities. Granted that sports and fraternities are an important part of the school, but there are many students involved in different activities. Some are not in fraternities. Some students happen to be women, who may or may not belong to one of the three sororities of campus. The inclusion of these other facets of Unlon could only }\ave added to the worth of the film. However, the film is still certainly worthwhile and, in fact, is ex- cellent. .. Both the ~enovation and the film serve to display the tradition and the at- tributes of Union to people who should know about them. It is an effort to become involved in the world around us. This effort on the part of the College can only be supported, because it is also an effort to bring the campus and the students to those people who were once students here themselves or who may be here in the future. Without them, as without us, Union wouldn't exist. On Belt Tightening- In announcing federal budget cuts that should eventually amount to $41.4 billion, Ronald Reagan made good on a campaign promise and may well have charted a new national economic course. If this program achieves what its setting out to do--namely, increasing productivity, reducing inflation and generally improving the national standard of living--then Mr. Reagan is likely to be hailed as a modem-day savior. The problem is that, even if this strategy does work--an assumption highly open to question--it will take some time to produce tangible results. And in the interim, many groups of people will have to suffer as a result of reductions in federal aid to their particular interests. One such group is college students. If the President's proposals are approved by Congress, federal outlays would be initially reduced by one-sixth, with more reductions later on. (See story, page 1.) Accordfug to Union Financial Aid Director, Robe1·t J. Massa, some 500 students here would receive 25 percent less federal grant money next year, and roughly one-third of the College's 1,300 Guaranteed Loan borrowers would become ineligible for continued loan assistance. \ Such a possibility is--or, at least, should be--a cause for real concern among the campus community. Higher education has come to be viewed as an almost inalienable right in this country. Combined with the steadily increasing cost. of attending private colleges and universities, the Reagan plan could well put an end to that perception. Merely becoming upset about this prospect, however, will do little to stop its occurrence. The way to provide input is by taking positive action, by exercising the feedback system the American system provides for and expressing opinions to the appropriate officials. Before doing this, however, it is equally important to remember that other constituencies also have claim to a share of the national pie. There's nothing wrong with self-interest, but it loses much of its validity if it fails to take the larger picture into account. Concordiensis wi II be holding elections for Editor-in-Chief for Spring and Fall terms 1981 on Tuesday, March 3, at 9 p.m. in the newspaper office, fourth floor Carnegie. All interested students should submit their names to Mrs. Marra by that dai\e. Next week's Concordiensis will be the last one this term. Deadline for all copy is 6 p.m. on Tuesday. All students interested · in working on either the Senior Gift or Senior Fling committees, sign- up in. the Student Ac- tivities office by Thursday, Feb. 19. For . additiona I information ca II David Handler at\ 372-6332. =concoroieoois Editors-in-Cltief Associate Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editors Arts Editors Photo Editor Sports Editors Sports Photo Editor Layout Editor Business Manager Advertising Manager Subscriptions Editor · Calendar Editor Staff ·· Photo Staff Jim Davis, Julie Isgro Paul Grossman Joe Maguire . Naomi Blank D .. Booth, Judi Chervenak Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Richard A. Sher Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Steve Lerner Rachel I. Mandel Jeff Scardino Neil Rosenbawn EllenBerger Maria Manfredonia Jennifer Amler·, Mihd.y Broser, Claire Burchill, Charis Richards Kent Avery, Mindy Broser. Charis Richards, Michael J. Elkins Calligraphy Claire Burchill CONCORDIENSIS. is published every Thursday by .the' student body of Uruon College, Carnegie Hall, Schene~dy New. Y ?rk 12308; !?~;~blications Offif;e: Susquehano~ Publtcabons, Inc., 11 DIVIsion Street, Sidney, New York 13838 (~7) 563•71~1. E~tered in. ~e Schenectady Post Office as third class ~tter. Sub~cr1ptlo~ rate: 35 cents p~ copy, $10 per year, delivered anywhere m the United States. CONCORDmNSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. (CPS) ] 1 c i~ t t ~ e \

Page 2 CONOORDIENSIS, February B6, 1981 Editorials: Brightening the Image Three weeks before exams, the chances are s:lim that many of us are spending large amounts of time remembering what lt felt Uke to apply to Union or to come for an interview. The chances are just as slim that we're spending a lot of time wondering what it wlll be like to be an alumnus. However, both of these are important phases of our lives. These times are important to the College also. It is these two reasons which account for the Stanley Becker Hall and the Union movie, entitled 'A Union of People.' Stanley Becker Hall, formerly old Gym Hall, was recently renovated and transformed into the new Admissions Office. While the building was totaHy renovated, it was done in the same style as South College, Hale House and the Old Chapel. This building should add to the welcome of prospective freshmen. The inside is bright and spacious and welcoming. The movie, made under the supervision of Robert Rasmussen, Director of College Resources, attempts, among other things, to reacquaint alumni with their school. The objective of those who worked on it was to show that while times, faces and buildings may have changed, the spirit of the College has not. From the opening scenes, it is obvious that their goal has been accomplished. The spirit and feelings of this campus and its people have somehow been cap· tured and eloquently expressed in the 18-minute production. Basically. the movie revolves around the lives of the people on campus. The tremendous opportunity offered and the quality of the experience play a large part in the appeal of the film. It seems to end only seconds after it begins. Scenes of The Nott or walking in the fall foliate bring back memories of fall terms past for everyone. It is not without feelings of regret that the audience watches the graduation sequence end and, with it, the movie. It seems as if there should be more. It is not hard to imagine that this is your graduation day and the feelings of regret come from its being your last formal function at Union. Although we believe the main objective of the movie, portraying the spirit of Union, has been met with enormous success, we also have a few general criticisms. One is that the science and engineering departments have been given an overriding emphasis in the film. The other departments at Union have achieved the same amount of academic excellence. Consequently, they should not P,ave been ~o consistently overlooked, even in order to present other at- tributes. A great part of the spirit of the school comes from these areas. Also, sports and fraternities were emphasized at the expense of other activities. Granted that sports and fraternities are an important part of the school, but there are many students involved in different activities. Some are not in fraternities. Some students happen to be women, who may or may not belong to one of the three sororities of campus. The inclusion of these other facets of Union could only hftve added to the worth of the film. However, the film is still certainly worthwhile and, in fact, is ex- cellent. Both the r.enovation and the film serve to display the tradition and the at· tributes of Union to people who should know about them. It is an effort to become involved in the world around us. This effort on the part of the College can only be supported, because it is also an effort to bring the campus and the students to those people who were once students here themselves or who may be here in the future. Without them, as without us, Union wouldn't exist. On Belt Tightening In announcing federal budget cuts that should eventually amount to $41.4 billion, Ronald Reagan made good on a campaign promise and may well have charted a new national economic course. If this program achieves what its setting out to do--namely, increasing productivity, reducing inflation and generally improving the national standard of living--then Mr. Reagan is likely to be hailed as a modern-day savior. The problem is that, even if this strategy does work--an assumption highly open to question--it will take some time to produce tangible results. And in the interim, many groups of people will have to suffer as a result of reductions in federal aid to their particular interests. One such group is college students. If the President's proposals are approved by Congress, federal outlays would be initially reduced by one-sixth, with more reductions later on. (See story, page 1.) According to Union Financial Aid Director, Robert J. Massa, some 500 students here would receive 25 percent less federal grant money next year, and roughly one-third of the College's 1,300 Guaranteed Loan borrowers would become ineligible for continued loan assistance. Such a possibility is--or, at least, should be--a cause for real concern among the campus community. Higher education has come to be viewed as an almost inalienable right in this country. Combined with the steadily increasing cost of attending private colleges and universities, the Reagan plan could well put an end to that perception. Merely becoming upset about this prospect, however, will do little to stop its occurrence. The way to provide input is by taking positive action, by exercising the feedback system the American system provides for and expressing opinions to the appropriate officials. Before doing this, however, it is equally important to remember that other constituencies also have claim to a share of the national pie. There's nothing wrong with self-interest, but it loses much of its validity if it fails to take the larger picture into account. Concordiensis will be holding elections for Editor-in-Chief for Spring and Fall terms 1981 on Tuesday, March 3, at 9 p.m. in the newspaper office, fourth floor Carnegie. All interested students should submit their names to Mrs. Marra by that date. Next week's Concordiensis will be the last one this term. Deadline for all copy is 6 p.m. on Tuesday. All students interested in working on either the Senior Gift or Senior Fling committees, sign. up in the Student Ac- tivities office by Thursday, Feb. 19. For . additiona I information call David Handler at 372-6332. Prof. Siephen P~lletiere ·u · · v!t .·. · .·· · · ' n1on, ·tews SAt Policy Explained Invites Comments TG the Editor: I would like to C9'mmend the EdlttJrs Gf eoneordiensis for last weat•s editoriaL The topic of drinking· •·• regulations and ·To _the Editors: · · Due to cuts in our -budget; p~Yli~es ruways<seems to,·mt a UuiotfViews ha&t!JmerP.fOreed! to.·· ootV'e;:espeeially: when; there is aj)ply to·the Studt!ilt Fonun 'otor· th1¥1)tHtee:pt4on• that·testrieti~ns ·the adtltional fundS· that will·· will' be imposed. Last week 1 s enablelt w come t6 print·~ the ·· · editntial j<;rok a mature and · · ·Term. Inourapplleatiunr- \· · 1!l&iiblll· view··· ·of such ·· ·· ·· · · · · · · we ftJitnd''tllta't · · · :es ~and discussed th~ wbJetbero~we·n~~dedt:tJtJe;;,wm···ilf·ans1na·~ .t'tl· ·. ==~~~~-·:·t~_at·: · tht!.rAF.~rE>·ttb•~~'~· notldeserve me student Affairs · Council to · funded for•tbird>t~rm or at (SAC) h£Wl·dtafted a S:urvey that any fnt.uredate.···.O:b~USJy~.we asmstudentsalSbuttheir s.oiltal feel that we haw h1deed habits an(} the effect that benefitted the College by alcohol has on their life and the providing an outlet for students lives· of their peers. Its intent is inter~sted in doing either to detertmtu~ areas of con<Jem creative pieces or research and ways t-o help solve these article$ on almost any subject. problems. The SAC (consisting In doing so, we are, in essence, ' of three administrators, two a complement to, not a eom .. faculty; and five students) petitor of, ConcortliensiS.. . believes that the results ~f such However, we feel that the a survey will help everyone to student body should be given better understand the social life the opportunity tG voice their at Union College. The main opinion on this subiect. On reason the survey hasn't been Monday, March 2 at 7:36 p.m. released is that many SAC there will be an open Student members beli11ve that \policyn Forum meeting whkh will give has become a dirty word on all Union students a chance to campus and that the results of express their views concerning such a survey may be biased by the two papers. It will also give students with fear of the us the opportunity to exp~tnty r.e~~rictive; c c•policies~' t}tat the student boar the distinct nrtght testiit if they answer differen£es between .. out two truthfUlly. .. pt~;g~rs..~pd. the s • .· ¢ill1 function . ..... . . . . .. . . . ... that each serve& f:rthe canlpus C®tmued on page 4 =concoroiel15i6 Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editors Arts Editors Photo Editor Sports Editors Sports Photo Editor Layout Editor Jim Davis, Julie Isgro Paul Grossman Joe Maguire . NaomiBlank D. Booth, Judi Chervenak Bob Fox, Demetra Pontisakos Richard A. Sher Bill Curtin, Jay McDermott Steve Lerner Rachel I. Mandel Business Manager Advertising Manager Subscriptions Editor Calendar Editor Jeff Scardino Neil Rosenbaum Ellen Berger Maria Manfredonia Jennifer Amler, Mindy Broser, Claire Burchill, Charis Richards Kent Avery, Mindy Broser, Char is Richards, Michael J. Elkins Claire Burchill Staff Photo Staff Calligraphy CONCORDIENSIS. is published every Thursday by .the student body of Umon College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady New York 12303; Publications Office: Susquehann~ Publications, Inc., 11 Division Street, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-7151. E~tered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy $10 per year, delivered anywhere m the United States. ' CONCORDmNSIS subscribes to the College Press Service. (CPS) 1 ] T I' a• Sl cl ir S] fr N c Fl s c B SJ s1 fl a: p. n tl g p e i~ tl ti p t< tl I il A c d p f< p s tl \ s e v

Page 3 Ju,nior Dles in Accident Davic;l M. !kind, 1960 - 1981 Perspectives: Reduce Traffic By A.J. BRODSKY To my Student Trustees: Have I got a job for you, and I'll tell you what: you can claim all the credit. A problem that I see every day, as I trudge off to classes, is that of cars on the interior of campus. I am talking specifically of North Lane in front of Carnegie; Terrace Lane North, running parallel to Nortb College; South Lane, bordering Hale House; and Terrace Lane South, whi-ch skirts South College and the Administration Building. I have had it with being splashed by passing cars and stepping knee deep in ·grime from pot holes caused by cars. I am tired of the (!yesore of seeing . parked cars where they should not be parked and I am angry that my tuition is paying for grass repairs when it should be paying for my education. My remarks are intended not for · official traffic such as deliveries, security vehicles, or official guests of the College, but only for those lazy people who abuse the privilege. What I propose to you students, in positions of power is to arrange a temporary study. For 60 days ban traffic on- campus using whatever means is feasible and necessary: While this temporary moratorium on traffic is under way, propose a permanent plan that would totally do away with cars using the roadways listed above. I am not alone on this matter. inherent problems of just a temporary solution. A tem- porary solution such as erecting a solid barrier to prevent traffic .flow, would cause .problems if used as permanent fixtures. Official traffic, such as ama bulances, would not have quick access. Such .barriers would be subject to vandaUsm, adds Mr. Wood. Sgt. Chadwick noted that it would· be a \nightmare\ to enforce. This is why I initially propose a temporary study using such a technique as a barrier. ·The effects would be monitored and the data be used to complete a more p.ermanent solution. But atleast students and staff would be able to grasp immediately the pleasure of not having to fight with cars · and in turn, more support of a permanent solution would become ap- parent. Barricades could be ' designed to admit official traffic on a temporary basis and be install~d this summer if this · project were implemented by the Board of Trustees. A permanent solution that was brought to my attention by Mr. Wood is that of creating a roadway by Garis Field that would have access to the rear of Carnegie Hall. The parking behind Carnegie and Alumni Gym would not be affected by this proposal. Mr. Wood ad- ditionally said that a main delivery· terminal for all on- campus deliveries could be· established by the maintenance area. This one central area would limit commercial traffic on-campus and allow for easier distribution of materials and goods for the entire campus. By PAUL GROSSMAN Last weekend, Union College .suffered the loss .of junior Dave Brind as a result of a fatal car accident. He left Union the afternoon of the 2oth with Tony Piotro~wski to spend the weekend in New York City. They planned to spend the night with friends in Stamford, Conn. That afternoon, their car slid off the road and hit a cement wall. Tony is recovering in a Starn~ ford hospital. . Dave was killed instantly .. Dave was special in many ways. Born and raised in · Geneva, N.Y., he was always active in high school. HiS love for the outdoors .began early in his childhood and never ceased. This love was directed primarily at the.sport of fishing. Tremendously devoted to the sport, he excelled considerably. His career was highlighted last year when he received the number one amateur ranking in the nation. Not only was he the youngest fisherman ever to accomplish this, but he was also the .first New Yorker to attain this honor~ · Here at Union,. David was involved in the Glee Club, the Inter-Fraternity Council and senior executive and Opinio,n: secretary of his fraternity. The brothers of Theta Delta Chi wish to express the sorrow felt by family and many friends over the loss of such a special, beautiful person. To David, You touched so many of us in such special ways. Your courage, adventerous spirit and many-sided personality made ·you a man that many feel proud to havelmown. Perhaps there is anger felt now, anger because so manymust now be denied the experience of your friendship. You- meant many different things to those who knew you. A sensitive person, yet you were never afraid to speak your · mind. You were such a deter- mined individual and never afraid to try something new. Whenever you did try, you could never accept merely suc- ceeding; you had to .strive to succeed only in the .greatest of ways. The only consolation we can find, lf any, rests in the knoWledge that you lived your life to· the · tullest. You put your whole heart into everything. As a student, you strove for per- fection. As a sportsman, you accomplished many un- precedented feats. You were fortunate enough to have experienced many places and events in your life. Those who were associated with you feel fortunate to have gained at least a sense of what you were all about. Your start on Seneca Lake as a fisherman eventually led to fame for you as a fishenna~ •. You knew every inch of Seneca Lake as well as parts .of surrounding lakes. This knowledge of the lakes and of fishing was unsurpassed by even men of 70 years or more. The numerous trophies that you left stand are a permanent record of those particular ac- complishments. Those are tangible memories that we will always have. We, your brothers at Theta Delta Chi, knew you best and will remember you best as the sensitive, laughing, exciting man that you always were. You shared your life with us, David, and we are eternally grateful to you for those times. With Sincerest Love For You, David, Your Brothers at Theta Delta Chi, Your Friends, The Union College Community -· I have the.sympathy of Security in proposing such a plan. Administrative Sergeant· Chris Chadwick, expressing ' the department's official (lpiiiion, points out that students \take for granted that the College is compact; they have not ex- perienced larger campuses.\ Sgt. Chadwick elaborated that the campus was designed as a ''walking campus\ and that it takes no more than five niinutes to walk anywhere here. Such ideas are now being considered by Jack Litynski, the campus planner and representative for the firm of Saratoga Associates. So these ideas are not out of reach and valid only for the distant future. These concepts can be im- plimented in the {lear future with a little push. That is where you come iii gentlemen. You are my elected officials to officiate. Suggest this plan to the Board of Trustees. Now is your chance to represent me and others alike. The ·Price is Right Clifford Wood, Director of Security and Safety, was kind enough to enter into the con- versatio~ ~nd point out the ' ... ' On-campus parking diagram The\\.'\• By JUUAN w. LUMEN As you probably already know, we pay money to attend Union College. Quite a bit when Union College Ground you really think about it or try to hold it all in your pocket. You might even get a hernia if it (the money) were all in your pocket at once. It has been announced recently that tuition, room, -board, food, classes, and everything are going up 13.6 percent before it· is time to pay again next year. Administration people like Financial Vice President, John · Hauser, claim that things must rise annually so that salaries and wages can go up. Surely, plenty of us economics students know about the effects of supply and demand. Then, it is a good thing that the administration capitalizes on this golden op- portunity for two reasons. First, the school makes more money. This is something crucial to nonwprofit organizations, for it .gives them political credibility. With their affluence, such necessities as Astroturf fields can be delivered, with a drainage system. Secondly, as the price rises, people who are borderline cases in their desire to attend Union may decide not to come if the price becomes ridiculous. If costs are silly enough, these \undesirables\ can be avoided, and only students with the right school spirit will attend because they really desire to be here. Many of us are also aware of Administration Vice President, Thomas J. D'Andrea's suggestion for classes on Wednesdays. It is about time that somebody decided to \tighten\ up the \ship\ around here and create an environment academically conducive tor learning. Furthermore, it can be an optional choice for a class to hold session on weekends, perhaps· at the professor's house. If weekend class in- terrupts the tidal wave of weekend partying, the Monday morning \blues\ can ·be totally eliminated.

OONOORDIENSIS, February ~6, 1981 Page 3 Junior Dies in Accident ~ ·~;::: •'4-<::i .· ' .iz:,rl:;;.~\~ · Da.vid M. Brind, 1960 - 1981 Perspectives: Reduce Traffic By A.J. BRODSKY To my Student Trustees: Have I got a job for you, and I'll tell you what: you can claim aU the credit. A problem that I see every day, as I trudge off to classes, is that of cars on the interior of campus. I am talking specifically of North Lane in front of Carnegie; Terrace Lane North, running parallel to North College; South Lane, bordering Hale House; and Terrace Lane South, which skirts South College and the Administration Building. I have had it with being splashed by passing cars and stepping knee deep in grime from pot holes caused by cars. I am tired of the eyesore of seeing parked cars where they should not be parked and I am angry that my tuition is paying for grass repairs when it should be paying for my education. My remarks are intended not for official traffic such as deliveries, security vehicles, or official guests of the College, but only for those lazy people who abuse the privilege. What I propose to you students, in positions of power is to arrange a temporary study. For 60 days ban traffic on- campus using whatever means is feasible and necessary: While this temporary moratorium on traffic is under way, propose a permanent plan that would totally do away with cars using the roadways listed above. I am not alone on this matter. inherent problems of just a temporary solution. A tem- porary solution such as erecting a solid barrier to prevent traffic flow, would cause problems if used as permanent fixtures. Official traffic, such as am- bulances, would not have quick access. Such barriers would be subject to vandalism., adds Mr. Wood. Sgt. Chadwick noted that it w0uld be a \nightmare'. to enforce. This is why I initially propose a temporary study using such a technique as a barrier. · The effects would be monitored and the data be used to complete a more permanent solution. But at least students and staff would be able to grasp immediately the pleasure of not having to fight with cars and in turn, more support of a permanent solution would become ap- parent. Barricades could be designed to admit official traffic on a temporary basis and be installed this swnmer if this project were implemented by the Board of Trustees. A permanent solution that was brought to my attention by Mr. Wood is that of creating a roadway by Garis Field that would have access to the rear of Carnegie Hall. The parking behind Carnegie and Alumni 1 Gym would not be affected by this proposal. Mr. Wood ad- ditionally said that a main delivery terminal for all on- campus deliveries could be established by the maintenance area. This one central area would limit commercial traffic on-campus and allow for easier distribution of materials and goods for the entire campus. By PAUL GROSSMAN Last weekend, Union College suffered the loss of junior Dave Brind as a result of a fatal car accident. He left Union the afternoon of the 2oth with Tony Piotrowski to spend the weekend in New York City. They planned to spend the night with friends in Stamford, Conn. That afternoon, their car slid off the road and hit a cement wall. Tony is recovering in a Stam- ford hospital. Dave was killed instantly .. Dave was special in many ways. Born and raised tn Geneva, N.Y., he was always active in high school. His love for the outdoors began early in his childhood and never ceased. This love was directed primarily at the sport of fishing. Tremendously devoted to the sport, he excelled considerably. His career was highlighted last year when he received the number one amateur ranking in the nation. Not only was he the youngest fisherman ever to accomplish this, but he was also the first New Yorker to attain this hol'lor. Here at Union, David was involved in the Glee Club, the Inter-Fraternity Council and was a senior executive and Opinion: secretary of his fraternity. The brothers of Theta Delta Chi wish to express the sorrow felt by family and many friends over the loss of such a special, beautiful person. 1'o David, You touched so many of us in such special ways. Your courage, adventerous spirit and :rnany-sided personality made you a rnan that many feel proud to have known. Perhaps there is anger felt now, anger because so many must now be denied the experience of your friendship. You meant many different things to those who knew you. A sensitive person, yet you were never afraid to speak your mimi. You were such a deter- mined individual and never afraid to try something new. Whenever you did try, you could never accept merely suc- ceeding; you had to strive to succeed only in the greatest of ways. The only consolation we can find, if any, rests in the knowledge that you lived your life to the fullest. You put your whole heart into everything. As a student, you strove for per- fection. As a sportsman, you accomplished many un- precedented feats. You were fortunate enough to have experienced many places · and events in your life. Those who were associated with you feel fortunate to have gained at least a sense of what you were all about. Your start on Seneca Lake as a fisherman eventually led to fame for you as a fisherman. You knew every inch of Seneca Lake as well as parts of surrounding lakes. This knowledge of the lakes and of fishing was unsurpassed by even men of 70 years or more. The n.uinerous trophies that you lei stand are a permanent record of those particular ac- complishments Those are tangible memories that we will always have. We, your brothers at Theta Delta Chi, knew you best and will remember you best as the sensitive, laughing, exciting man that you always were. You shared your life with us, David, and we are eternally grateful to you for those times. With Sincerest Love For You, David, Your Brothers at Theta Delta Chi, Your Friends, The Union College Community I have the sympathy of Security in proposing such a plan. Administrative Sergeant Chris Chadwick, expressing · the department's official opinion, points out that students \take for granted that the College is compact; they have not ex- perienced larger campuses.\ Sgt. Chadwick elaborated that the campus was designed as a \walking campus\ and that it takes no more than five minutes to walk anywhere here. Such ideas are now being considered by Jack Litynski, the campus planner and representative for the firm of Saratoga Associates. So these ideas are not out of reach and valid only for the distant future. These concepts can be im- plimented in the near future with a little push. That is where you come in gentlemen. You are my elected officials to officiate. Suggest this plan to the Board of Trustees. Now is your chance to represent me and others alike. The Price • IS Right Clifford Wood, Director of Security and Safety, was kind enough to enter into the con- versation and point out the 'A ' ,(:,\Y On-campus parking ~Iagram By JULIAN W. LUMEN As you probably already know, we pay money to attend Union College. Quite a bit when :'·N!· Thfnrk.n~ Union College Ground you really think about it or try to hold it all in your pocket. You might even get a hernia if it (the money) were all in your pocket at once. It has been announced recently that tuition, room, ·board, food, classes, and everything are going up 13.6 percent before it is time to pay again next year. Administration people like Financial Vice President, John Hauser, claim that things must rise annually so that salaries and wages can go up. Surely, plenty of us economics students know about the effects of supply and demand. Then, it is a good th.ing that the administration capitalizes on this golden op- porhmity for two reasons. First, the school makes more money. This is something crucial to non-profit organizations, for it gives them p()litical credibility. With their affluence, such necessities as Astroturf fields can be delivered, with a drainage system. Secondly, as the price rises, people who are borderline cases in their desire to attend Union may decide not to come if thr price becomes ridiculous. If costs are silly enough, these \undesirables\ can be avoided, and only students with the right school spirit will attend because they really desire to be here. Many of us are also aware of Administration Vice President, Thomas J. D'Andrea's suggestion for classes on Wednesdays. It is about time that somebody decided to \tighten\ up the \ship\ around here and create an environment academically conducive lex learning. Furthermore, it can be an optional choice for a class to hold session on weekends. perhaps at the professor's house. If weekend class in- terrupts the tidal wave of weekend partying, the Monday morning \blues\ can be totally eliminated.

Page 4 OONOORDIENSlS, February ~6, 1981 Course 'P·ost' ed :By JOE MAGUmE Ws the first day of .the term and youJre late for your first clas.s. You walk in during one of those introductory, \ideas rather t an facts, concepts rath.:r t 1an memorization\ speech••J that some instructors alwayt seem to give, to boastfutly exhibit their liberal ''novel approach'' to classroom instruction. Thiscourse is being taught by Catherine Clinton, Assistant Professor of History.· Clinton contends that, \chronology is the .skeletonJ and ideas and concepts are the flesh\ of the study of history. Charming, but not that unusual. Lots of professors think that's the ideal way to teach a class. Some even teach a class that way. Big Deal. So what makes ClintonJs courses worth a closer look? Clinton uses fiction to help her teach history. She also -uses film. Not necessarily documentary film, but Hollywood stuff. She likes to show \Gone Withthe Wind\ and \Mandingo\ in her course on the History of the .South. But the use of fiction is what really rekes of paradox. \Some pieces of fiction are as true as any textbook\ main- tains Clinton, who has studied at Harvard (B.A.) University of Sussex (M.A.), and Princeton (Ph.D) ... She regards Ralph Ellison's fictional Invisible Man as the \true.st (one volume) history of blacks in America.\ Students of Clinton's black history course read ~visible Man. The students like it. \They enjoy having a character to identify with.\ She concedes, however, that it is possible to .choose a piece of. literature or fUm that is inappropriate to rectify this, she tries \to have students read classics.'' The fact that Clinton wants to ._ promote concepts as well as ~ fact is not so unusual. The fact rii that she uses the products of fertile imaginations is. ~ Another method she uses to ~ promote real understanding is to invite lecturers · who use S history as part .of their lives. .E On March 5 Robert Levey, _g investigative report.er for the .a. Washington Post, ·will speak to her American Social History class. He will lecture on urban history, concentrating on his experiences as a historical, a~d social researcher, while preparing a series on Washington, D.C., neigh- borhoods. Levey's experience as a social researcher should make his lecture a significant contribution to this course. On the same day, Levey will give a talk entitled \Con- temporary Issues in Modern Journalism\ at 4:30 p.m. in . Strauss Lounge. Admission is free, and all are welcome. Clinton feels that Levey's presentations will givre her American Social History students a chance to see their urban studies applied to today's world. This would support another of her seemingly paradoxical statements. ''I try to present the past and the present simultaneously.\ Camp Triangle Winter Addreu 2575 Troy Rd. Schenectady, N: Y. 12.'!09 Phone: 518--783-1233 8 Kill Mill CUP Summer Address P.Oc Bex 5 Lake Clear, N. Y 12945 Phone 518-891-3311 Summer camp for retarded near Lake placid now hiring: Com pus interviews arranged Write: 257? Troy Rd .. Assista~t History professor Calherlne Clinton BALL Feb. ·28 - A \cornucopia\ of entertainment\ is promised to all who attend the Empire State Youth Theater Institute's grand dinner and masquerade ball in the Empire State Plazas Convention Center in Albany . The festivities will start at 7: :30 p.m. For more information, call 474-1767. FILM Feb. 27 and 28 The· 8:30p.m. March 2 ,_ Russell Sage College will present the film ''It Happened One Night'', with Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert at the Schacht Fine Arts Center. The dilm will be shown at 7 and 9:30 p.m. For more information, call 270-2344. March 3- The Junior College of Albany will present the film \Blazing Saddles\ at the .Student Center at il: 15 a.m. and 1: 30 p.m. For more in- - formation, call 270-2344. March 4 - Sr. CecHia HQlbrook of CSR will present a lecture entitled Ce11tral America and The Carribean: New Political Earthquake Zone at 12:15 ·p.m. in the Main Library. For more infonnation call 449-3380. · MUSlC Feb. 27 • March 1 - George Ward, a folklorist, folksinger, songwriter, and musician with regional songs from all over this country as w.ell as the British University of Albany will LECTURE present the film Or.pheus, winner of the British Academy Award. The film will be held at the Performing Arts Center at · Isles will be performing at the Cafe Lena, 45 Phila Street, Saratoga Springs. For more information, call584-9789. TIIEATER March 3 - George Gelder's book Wealth a11d Poverty will be discussed at 12:15 p.m. by Howard t. Malone, who retired recently from the NYS Office of the Budget. The lecture will be held at the Main Library of the Albany Public Library, 161 Washington Avenue. For more information, call 449-3380. Feb. 28 - Vinie Burrows, sole performer in Walk T()gether Chlldren, a chronicle of the Black experience in poetry, prose and song will appear in the Skidmore Theater. For more information, call58.4-5000. LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONO~ICS A chance to s_tudy and live in London A wide range of subjects and courses is available in Central London ·for students of the social sciences. Junior year ............ Postgraduate Diplomas One-year Master's degrees ....... Research Subjects include Accounting and Finance, Actuarial Science, Anthropology, Business Studies, Econometrics, Economics, Economic History, Geography, Government, Industrial Relations, International History, International Relations, Law, Management Science, Operational Research, Philosophy, Politics, Social Administration, Social Work, Sociology, Social Psychology and Statistical and Mathematical Sciences. ,. Application blanks from: Admissions Secretary, L.S.E., Hollghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, England. Please state whether Junior year or postgraduate. ' II ' You're aiming for a college degree. And with that in hand you'll be looking for a job offer. '(ou may find it won't be automatic. For tl')atreason it's important for you, as a sophomore, to make· the most of your last two years in college. Whatever your career choice, you'fl want to become competjtive and marketable. It won't be easy but you'll find yourself better prepared if you look ahead. , ' Get th~ facts on lead~r- ship mal11!lgement training. Learn what increas~s your leadership potential in the job market. Sophomore, you can do something about your life after college. For more information: • Call: Cpt. Bill Terhune 783-2571 Today! Now. ARMY 101£ •. JHE TWO-YEAR PROGRAM. •

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS~ February 26~ 1981 Course 'Post' ed By JOE MAGUIRE It's the first day of the term and you're late for your first class. You walk in during one of those introductory, \ideas r~ther t an facts, concepts rath :r t 1an memorization\ speecl• 3 that some instructors alway1 seem to give, to boastfllily exhibit their liberal ·•navel approach\ to classroom instruction. Tbiscourse is being taught by Catherine Clinton, Assistant Professor of History. Clinton contends that, \chrenology is 'he skeleton, and ideas and concepts are the flesh\ of the ~tudy of history. Charming, but not that tmu.sual. Lots of professors :hink that's the ideal way to teach a class. Some even teach a class that way. Big Deal. So what makes Clinton's courses worth a closer look? Clinton uses fiction to help her teach history. She also uses film. Not necessarily documentary film, but Hollywood stuff. She likes to show \Gone With the Wind\ and \Mandingo\ in her course on the History of the South. But the use of fiction is what really rekes of paradox. \Some pieces of fiction are as true as any textbook\ main- tains Clinton, who has studied at Harvard (B.A.) University of Sussex (M.A.), and Princeton (Ph.D) .• She regards Ralph Ellison's fictional Invisible Man as the \truest (one volume) history of blacks in America.\ Students of Clinton's black history course read Invisible Man. The students like it. \They enjoy having a character to identify with.\ She concedes, however, that it is possible to choose a piece of literature or film that is inappropriate to rectify this, she tries \to have students read classics.\ The fact that Clinton wants to '- promote concepts as well as ~ fact is not so unusual. The fact ~ that she uses the prodMcts of tO fertile imaginations is. ~ Another method she uses to ~ promote real understanding is to invite lecturers who use £ history as part of their lives. .g On March 5 Rebert Levey, _g investigative reporter for the c.. Washington Post, will speak to · her American Social History class. He will lecture on urban history, concentrating on his experiences as a historical, and social researcher, while preparing a series en Washington, D.C., neigh- borhoods. Levey's experience as a social researcher should make his lecture a significant contribution to this course. On the same day, Levey will give a talk entitled \Con- temporary Issues in Modern Journalism\ at 4:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Admission is free, and all are welcome. Clinton feels that Levey's presentations will give her American Social History students a chance to see their urban studies applied to today's world. This would support another of her seemingly paradoxical statements. ''I try to present the past and the present simultaneously.\ Assistant History professor Catherine Clinton BALL Feb. 28 - A \cornucopia\ of entertainment\ is promised to all who attend the Empire State Youth Theater Institute's grand dinner and masquerade baH in the Empire State Plazas Convention Center in Albany. The festivities wiU start at 7:30 p.m. For more information, call 474-1767. FILM Feb. 27 and 28 The University of Albany will present the film Orpheus, winner of the British Academy Award. The film will be held at the Performing Arts Center at 8:30p.m. March 2 - Russell Sage College will present the film \It Happened One Night\ with Clark Gable and Claudette Calbert at the Schacht Fine Arts Center. The dilm will be shown at 7 and 9:30 p.m. For more information, call 270-2344. March 3- The Junior College of Albany will present the film \Blazing Saddles\ at the Student Center at 11: 15 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. For more in- formation, call 27o-2344. LECTURE March 4 - Sr. Cecilia Halbrook of CSR wHI present a lecture entiUed Central America and The Carribeau: N e:w Political Earthquake Zone at 12:15 p.m. in the Main Library. For more information call 449-3380. MUSIC Feb. 27 - March 1 - Gearge Ward, a folklorist, folksinger, songwriter, and musician with regional songs from aU over this country as well as the British Isles will be performing at the Cafe Lena, 45 Phila Street .. Saratoga Springs. For rnor~ · information, call 584-9789. THEATER ----Le·tte .. ·rs----~ Continued from page 2 March 3 - George Gelder's book Wealth and Poverty will be discussed at 12:15 p.m. by Howard L. Malone, who retired recently from the NYS Office of the Budget. The lecture will be held at the Main Library of the Albany Public Library, 161 Washington Avenue. For more information, call 449-3380. Feb. 28- Vinie Burrows, sole performer in Walk Together Children, a chronicle of the Black experience in poetry, prose and song will appear in the Skidmore Theater. For more information, call 584-5000. This type of attitude will only result in a useless survey al}d will deny this valuable m.. ·formation to any group that could benefit from a better understanding of our social habits (ex. fraternitiest dorm councils, the social committee, etc.) Thanks to ConoordiensJs, R.A/s, and fraternity representatives, the im .. portance of this surv:ey is being conveyed on campus. Hopefully, within the next· two weeks, the survey will be released and the resUlts made available as soon as possible. . Please keep in mind that · \policy'' need not be a dirty W{)rd in our vncabularies and that this survey is only trying to collect the opinions and actions of the students here at Union. These are not things we should be ashamed of~ or something we • need to lie about or hide. · Thank you for your time. Sincerely, Vernon Wetmore Senit>r Representative to SAC Fraternity Contributions Lauded An open letter to the Brothers of Sigma Chi: On behalf of Union College, please accept my sincere thanks for your gift in honor of . Joe Carda'ny to the College's General Scholarship fund. Winter Addre55 2575 Troy Rd Schenectady, N. Y 12309 Phone· 518-783·1233 We at Union ]lre all proud of Joe and bis achievementsf but. the men in your house must share a .:special feeling for his accQUJpllshnlents. As you all know, financial aid is becmning more and more important to many students here at Union. Your con- tribution. is an excellent example of how cooperation and concern for fellow students can work in a college comnumity. I thank you and ct>ngratulate you for your efforts. Cordially~ Robert J. Massa Director ofFinandal Aid Continue.· \Blue Skies' Tt> the Editors: ·We, the Brothers of Phi Delta Th~ta, are upset at last week's omission in Concordlensis of D. Booth's \Blue Skies Over Union.\ Each week the Brothers eagerly await the new advice offered ·to the lovelorn which D. Booth has offered consistantly. Socializing is no easy task, but D. Booth has made it look easy. His suggested techniques have led to. rigorous and heated debate around the Pbi Delta dinner table. In factt the house is now split into tw{) factions: those who favor the satin robe with · embroidered dragon approach and those who prefer the baby oil in the sauna teebnlque~ More than one shy Phi has sought and Summer Address PO Sox 5 Like Clear. N Y 12945 Phone 518-8913311 Summer camp for retarded near lake Placid now hiring: Campus interviews arranged Write: 2575 Troy Rd. found true oompanionship with · members of the .. fairer . sex, thanks to D. Booth>s writing. Beeause of this jomnalistic Don Juan, we now know the possibilities are endless. ms tutelage bas been invaluable and we .extend <Jur heartfelt thanks to this (•campus Casanova\. lONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS A chance to study and live in London A Wide range of subJects and courses 1s available •n Central London for students of the social sc1ences. Junior year ......... PoStgraduate Diplomas One-year Masters degrees .. Research Nevertheless, with spring .fast approaching, we are in dire need of D. Booth's advice.~ I shudder t<J think of driving up Route 50 without D. Booth's article in my glove com- . partment. I urge youJ I implGre y011-Carry on, D. Booth. Affectit>nately ~ Ed. M~nke and the Brothers of Phi ~Ita Theta Subjects mclude Accountmg and F~nance, Actuanal Sc1ence. Anthropology, Business Studies. Econometrics, Economics. Economic H1slory. Geography, Government. Industrial Relations. International H1story. InternatiOnal Relations. Law, Management Science. Operational Research, Philosophy, Politics, Social Administration. Social Work. Sociology, Soc1al Psychology and Statistical and Mathematical Sciences. • Application blanks from: Admissions Secretary, L S. E., Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE. England. Please state whether junior year or postgraduate. ' • UFE AFTEI ClllEIE? You're aiming for a college degree. And with that in hand you'll be looking for a job offer. You may find it won't be automatic. For that reason it's important fbr you, as a sophomore, to make the most of your last two years in college. Whatever your career choice, you'll want to become competitive and marketable. It won't be easy but you'll find yourself better prepared if you look ahead. Get the facts on leade:r- ship management training. Learn what increases your leadership potential in the job market. Sophomore, you can do something about your life after college. For more information: Call: Cpt. Bill Terhune 783·2571 Today! Now. ARMY ROTC. THE TWO-YEAR PROGRAM. I.

a in · er in OONOORDIENS18, February B6, 1981 Page 5 Final Exam Schedule • Winter Term, 1981 IMPORTANT: This exam schedule is prilJlarlly for regular, \day\ undergrad~te courses. A separate ,schedule for Graduate Studies and Continumg Education courses will be •announced, and students in \Section 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the annoUilcement of the exam time for those courses, except for Adm. and Mgt. 211.( Sec. 51 )iand Adm. and Mgt. m. (Sec. 51) wbich are included here .. Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. Lapidus in the Office of the Registrar not later thaJI, Monday, March 9,1981. Examinations will;beheld in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be W!ed. AB-~rts Buildin~ BH-Bailey llall BU-Butterfield Hllll HU-Hwn!lJlities :Building N-North Wing, Sct-Engr. Center ()C.o-()ld Chapel PY -Psychology Laboratory S8-Sacial Scienees·, Bl!ilding SH-8teinmetz Hall CH--carnegie Hall ' Monday, March 16 • 9:08-11:00 a.m. Freshman Preceptorial to.-Perception and Persuasion, Sec. 6-Cole-Bfl 203 Art 50-Modern A.rchitecture I: Nineteenth Century-Rohrer-AB 104 Latin 11-Principles of Latin-Ketterer-IID 116 . Economics 41J-Lallor beconomics-Prosper..;gs 115 History 11-History,~d Society: The Modemization and Growth of Global Society- Berk, Dawson-CH205 . History 19<-Moder-nArnerica: The New Deal and After-Jonas-SS 117 History 43-Europe and the Early Modern Era-Hansen-8S. 010 French 10-Basic Frenc.h 1-McDennott-HU 117 Russian 134--TheRussiairLanguage in PracticalUse 11-Jemakoff-HU 110 Philosophy 12-Phibsophical Problems-Krunin~kY;-~ 1~2 . Political Science 11--contemporary American Politics-Tulmarch-8S 012 Political Science 29'-Tlte Western Political Hetitage: Luther to.I.enin-Board-8S 113 Political Science 5~ovlet Foreign Policy-Gati-8S ll2 Sociology 1D-~nli\oduction to Sociology, Sec .. 2-Kap~-HU 115 Biology 22-B!ology of Plants-Core IT-FroJilich, Tob1essen-SH 100 Biology 166-Functilmal Histo~ogy and Organology-Ro~BH 207 Chemistry 12-Fundarnental Chemistry II Sec. 1-,Scaife-BU 204 · Sectiori 2-Quaal-BU 204 Section 3-Weick-BU· 204 Section 4-Scaife..BU 204 Chemistry 142-Chernical Instnimentation-Werner-BH 102 Cbemistry 154-Physical Chemistry TII-Ande.rson-BH 104 Mathematics 18-Introduction to Logic and Set T!:eory-Zwi.cker-BH 106 Physics 13-lntrodu~tion to Physics II (For Physical Science and Engineering Majors)-'Sec, 2-Maleki-BH ~1 Physics 42-Great Ideas of Modern Physics-Ohanian-8H 106 Physics 134-Physical Optics-8wartz-8H 219 Psychology 10-AFirst.C()urse in Psychology, Sec. 3-Huntley-PY 102 Psychology 33-Cogirltive Psychology-Greenberg-PY 213 Psychology 37-Psyehology Tbr!)ugb Literature-Calabria-PY113 Psychology 62-Praetiewn i;n Human Relatio~ I-Girdn~r-PY204 . Engineering Liberal Learnmg 11-Transportatton, Planrung and Soctety-Jewell BU 106 E.S. 26-Ther.modynarnics and Heat Transfer, Sec. 2-Aubrey-N 222 E.S. 33--Fluid Systems Analysis-Ketchwn-N 116 C.E. 143-FoundatiollS and Concrete Construction-Harlow-BU 109 C.S. 12-Programnling fer the Sciences-Goodheart-ss 016 :Monday, Marcbl8· 2:00-4:00p.m. Economics 11-Elementary Economics, .Sec. 1-Lewis-SS 117 Political Science 12-Contemporary InternatiDnal Polltics, Sec. 1-Pelletiere-8S 113 Biology 21-Biology of Animals-Core 1-Roth-BH 207 Geology 10-Physical Geology-Zinunel'Illan-BU 109 . Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I (For Class of '84 Engineers), Sec. 1-Pilcher- BH 201 . · d Physics 13-Introduetion to Physics II (For Biology, Science, Hwnamtles an Social Science Majors)-Hall-8H 101 . . Physics 120-Ifitroouction to Astronomy and Astropbyslcs-Tttus-8H 100 Psychology 10-A FirstCourse in Psychology, Sec. 1-Markiewicz-PY 113 Psychology 21J..-Statistical Methods in Psychology--Greenberg-PY 213 E.S. 26-Thennodynarnics and Heat Transfer, Sec. 1...Shanebrook-8H 110 E.S. 70-Managerial and Engineering Economics-Griggs-BU 106 C.S. tO-Perspectives on Computer Languages and Software-8chwarz-BH 104 C.S. 11-FORTRAN Programming for the Soeial Sciences-Branch-BH 203 C.S. 18-Introductioll to Computer Organization-Hassib-HU 115 Tuesday, March 17 • 9:~11:00 a.m. Freslunan Preceptorial 10-Perception and Persuasion, S~,Jc. 2-Hartwig-HU 112 Liberal Learning 50-Special Topics in Geology-D. Stone-8S 016 Classics 41J-Dem()Cracy and Federalism in the Ancient World-Reece-HU 104 Economics 10-Elementary Econolfiics, Sec. 1--Prosper-ss 115 Economics 1~uantitative Methods in Economics-Klein-8S 014 Economics 144-International Economics-Phaup-HU 116 English 43-Hwnanities II: Middle Ages and Renasissance-Freund-HU 019 English 69-Modern British Fiction-Marten-HU 115 . History 122-American Constitutional and Legal History: The State and the In- dividual-Allen-SS 012 History 142-conservatism, Liberalism, and Socialism-Hansen-SS 010 French 11-Basic French 11-Warger-HU 110 Gennan 11-Basle Gennan II-K~nenter-HU 117 Philosophy 17-8e:x and Society-Baker-HU ~14 . . . Political Science 12-Contemporary International Politics, Sec. 2-Gatl-8S 113 Political Scie~ce 62-Judicial System-Daniels-SS 117 Political Science 88-Contemporary Politics of the Middle East-Pelletiere-SS 112 Sociology 16-Intrcdnction to Sociology, Sec. 1-Weinter-CH 205 AccoWlting 10-Fi:nancial Accounting-Hurley-BH 201 Biology 11-Topics in Contemporary Biology-Lambert-N 116 Biology 24-Genetics and Evolution-core IV-Butzel, Boyer-BU 204 Biology 144-Cytology-smith-BH 102 Mathematics lo-catculus I-'Gillette-BH 106 Physics 11-Introduetion to Physics I (For Class of '84. Engineers.), Sec. 2-8t. Peters-SH 110 . . . . . Physics 13-Introduction to Physics II (Physical Science and Engineermg MaJOrs), Sec. 1-Reich-SH 106 Physics 38-Methods of Theoretical Physics-:Newman-8H 219 Psychology 16-A First.course in Psychology, Sec. 2-Calabria-PY 113 Psychology 31-Abnonnal. Psychology-Nydegger-PY 102 Psychology 46-Io.troouction to Psychobiology-Markiewicz-PY 213 E.S. 20-MechanicsD-Panlilio-BU 109 E.S. 33-Fluid Systems Analysis-Jewell-BH 108 C.E. 10-Introductioll to Communications-Griggs-BU 106 C.E. 130-Struct11r'es-Doenig-BH 104 E.E. 36-system Theory U-Russ-BH 20'1 M.E. 30-Dynamics of Linear Systems-Bingbarn-BH 205 Tuesday, Mar«lh 17 • 2:004:00p.m. Latin 142-Roltl$l I:.etter-Writing-Ketterer-HU 116 Economics 11-Elelllentary Economics Sec. 2--Ginsberg-ss 016 Section 3-Ginsberg-ss 016 Section 4,-G-insberg.oSS 016 Mathematics 31)..()rdinary Differential Equations Section 1-Gillette-:BH 207 Section 2-Gillette-:BH 'JJ11 Section 3-Faitcblld-BH 203 Wednesday, Mareh 18 • 9:110-11:00 a.m. Freshman Elective 46-Wornen and Cballge in the Third World-Huggins-SS 113 Liberal Learning 21-Btereo, Teleruion, and .Electronic~raig-BU 109 Liberal Learning 34-History of Science l-Reece-HU 115 Greek 11-Principles .of Greek~uenette-HU 116 Economics 31-Microeconomic Analysis-Klein -ss 112 EngliSh 63-Literature of the--Romantic Period 1-Freund-HU 112 History 58-The Holocaust-Berk-CH 205 History 64-Tbe Role of Business in U.S.•Latin American Relations--Bristol-88 012 French.137-8hort Fiction in France-McDennott-HU 117 Spanish 136-Readings m Contemporary Spanish and Spanis)!-American Literature-Ihrie-HU 016 Philosophy 20-Classical Logic-Kaminsky-HU 014 Political Science tO-Contemporary Political Analysis-Brown-ss 115 Political Science 61-Eleetoral Politics--Hartwig...SS117 Sociology 163-History of Sociological Thought-Weiner-8H 219 Biology 62-World Agriculture-Tobiessen, Schadler-N 11& Biology 66-Sex and Sexuality...,LaJnbert-ss 016 Biology 170-General and Comparative Endocrinology--Buttel'Stein-BH 207 Chemistry 16-Fundamental Chemistry 1· Section l-8chaefer-BU 204 Section 2-Anderson-BU 204 Section 3-Anderson-BU 204 Mathematics 32-Abstract Algebra 1-Rosen-BH 108 Mathematics 146-Advanced Calculus l-8eiken-B.H 203 Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I (Biology, Science, Hwnanitles and Social Science Majors)-8chick-8H 106 Physics IS-Introduction to Physic.13 II {Physical Science and Engineering Majors), Sec. 3-Peak-8H 101 , Psychology 16-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 4-Spring-.PY 102 PsychOlogy 24-Social Psycbology-Liptcm--PY 113 Psychology 36-Anirnal Learning\\'Markiewicz-PY 204 Psychology 38--Developmental.Psycholcgy-Britain-PY 213 E.S. 22-8cience of Engineering Materials-Millillo-BH 201 E.S. 30-Mechanics of Deformable Solids-Panlili()-BU 106 C.E. !52-Environmental Engineering I-8now-BH 102 Wednesday ,:March 18 • 2: 00o4:00 p.m. Economics 42-Macroeconomic Theory and Policy-Kersbner-ss 115 EngliSh 28-Epic-Lyric-Freund-HU 1-10 German 140-Das Deutsche Mittelalter-:gwarde-HU 116 Philosophy 134-Analytic Philosophy-Ludwig-HU 112 Sociology 1211:-Sociology of Medicine-Schneller-BH 1116 Ad. & Mgt. 241-Bystems Analysis and Simulation-Yazici-BH 104 Biology 36-Invertebrate Zoology-B. Boye:r-BH 205 Chemistry 32-0rganic Chemistry II Section 1-8heffer-BU 204 Section 2-Hull-BU 204 Psychology 63-Practicwn in Human Relations II-Girdner-PY 213 Psychology 66-Seminar in Social Psyehology-Lipton-PY 102 E.S. 11-Engineerinl Graphics-Harlow-BU 109 E.S. 11-Engineering Graphics-Eisenstadt-'BU 106 C.S. 130-Data Structures-G. Williams-HU 115 Thursday, March 19- 9:00.11:00 a.m. Music 14-Tonal Theory IT-Tann-AB 105 Economics 16-Elernentary Economi«!s, Sec. 2-Phaup-SS 112 History 15-Colonial America, 1607·1776-Wells-SS 113 Chinese 11-Basic Intensive Chinese II-Lo-HU 110 German 136-Early Twentieth Century German Literature-Kellenter-HU 116 Spanish 151-Bemiilar-Ginsber-g-Hl:T 117 Philosophy 76-Philosophy of Law-Baker-HU 114 Physics 140-Introduction to Quantum Mechanics-Schick-8H 219· E.L.L. 33-Energy I-8hanebrook-N 116 E.S. 31-Electrical Circuits and Devices I Sec. 1-Chang-BH 201 Section 2-Kwn~BH 207 E.S. 48-Introduction to Semiconductor Devices and Circuits Section 1-Kwn~BH 207 Section 2-Branch-BH 203 AOP lG-Pre-Calculus Mathematics--Fisher-BH 102 Thursday, March 19 • 2: 00-4:00 p.m. Freshman Elective 22-Changing Society and the Family in America-Kaplan-58 117 Art SO-Introduction to Art History 11-Rohrer-AB 104 English 191-Berninar: English Literature 11-Marten-HU 110 Hebrew 11-Basic Hebrew II-Heckelman-HU 112 Spanish 141-Contemporary Hispanic Tbeater-Ginsberg-HU 116 Philosophy 32-Modern Philosophy-Kaminsky-HU 117 Political Science 32-American Political Thought-Brown-ss 115 Sociology 141-Crime and Justice in Society-Huggins-HU 019 Statistics to-Introduction to Statistic&-Delaney-BH 104 Statistics no-Introduction to Statistical Methods-Hohnes-BH 106 Adm. & Mgt. 211-Managerial Accounting-Hurley-BH 205 Chemistry 162-Polyrner Chemistry 1-'Sheffer-N 222 Psychology 39-Introduction to the Study of Sex Roles-Britain-PY 113 Psychology 49-Clinical Models of Psychotherapy 11-Dowling-PY 102 E.S. 10-Mecbanics I Section 1-Ullman-BU 109 Section 2-Weiss-HU 115 Section 3-Weiss-HU 115 C.S. 37...Structured Programming-Hannay-BH 207 AOP 03-College Science-Enokian-Bll 102 Friday, Mareh.20 • 9:00-ll:OOa.m. German 133-The German Language in Practical Use I-Kellenter-HU 110 Russian 11-Basic Russian II-Jemakoff-HU 114 Mathematics 12-CalculllS II Section 1-Reynolds-BH 108 Section 2-Zwicker-HU 115 Section 3-Taylor-ss 115 Section 4-Cole-BH 207 Section 5-Zwicker-HU 115 Section,6-Barbanel-BU 204 Section 7--cole-BH 207 Section 8-Pappas-BU 201 Section 9-Barbanel-BU 204 Mathematics 14-CalculllS III Section 1-Stone-BH 205 Section 2-Beiken-BH 104 Mathematics 20-Mathematical Methods for the Social Sciences Section 1-Taylor-ss 115 Section 2-Rosen-BH 203 Section 3-Pappas-BH 201 Mathematics 28-Probability Section 1-Rosenthal;...HU 019 Section 2-Rosentbal-HU 019 Mathematics 180-Fowulations of Mathematics-Taylor, Zwicker-HU 115 Psychology 72-The Family and Interpersonal Dynamics-Girdner-PY 102 Frlday,Marcll20·2:~:00p.m. English 49-Emergence of the Filnunaker as Artist-Gado-SS 01& French 133-The French Langw~ge in Pratical Use I Section 1-McDerrnott-HU lltl Section 2-Warger-HU 117 German 16-Basic Gennan I Section 1-Warde-HU 112 Section 2-Mache-HU 114 Spanish 16-Basic Spanish I Section 1-Ginsberg-HU 110 Section 2-Ihrie-HU 115 Mathematics 130-Complex Analysis-Barbanel-BH 205

ilia· a the .. ole in 00. I ~ OONOORDIENSIS, February 26, 1981 Page~ Final Exam Schedule - Winter Term, 1981 IMPORT ANT: This exam schedule is primarily for regular, \day\ undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate Studies and Continuing Education courses will be announced, and students in ''Section 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam time for those courses, except for Adm. and Mgt. 211 (Sec. 51) and .A:drtl. and Mgt. 241 (Sec. 51) which are included here. Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. Lapidus in the Office of the Registrar not later than :Monday, March 9, 1981. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. AB-Arts Building BH-Bailey Hall BU-Butterfield Hall HU-Humanities Building N-North Wing, Sci.-Engr. Center OC-Old Chapel PY-Psychology Laboratory SS-Social Sciences Building SH....Steinmetz Hall CH-Carnegie Hall Monday, March 16-9:00-11:00 a.m. Freshman Preceptorial !()...Perception and Persuasion, Sec. 6-Cole-B:fi 203 Art 50-Modern Architectwe I: Nineteenth Century-Rohrer-AB 104 Latin 11-Principles of Latin-Ketterer-HU 116 . Economics 40-Labor beconomics-Prosper-ss 115 History 11-History and Society: The Modernization and Growth of Global Society- Berk, Dawson-CH 205 History 19-Modern America: The New Deal and After-J onas-SS 117 History 43-Europe and the Early Modern Era-Hansen-ss 010 French 10-Basic French I-McDermott-HU 117 Russian 134-The Russian Language in Practical Use II-Jernakoff-HU 110 Philosophy 12-Philosophical Problems-K~insky:-~ 1~2 Political Science 11-Conternporary Amerwan Politics-T1d.Inarch-SS Oil.2 Political Science 29-The Western Political Heritage: Luther to Lenin-Board-8S 113 Political Science 52....Soviet Foreign Policy-Gati....SS 112 Sociology 10-Introduction to Sociology, Sec .. 2-Kapl<!\-HU 115 Biology 22-Biology of Plimts-Core II-Frohlich, Tob1essen-8H 100 Biology 160-Functional Histology and Organology-Roth-BH 207 Chemistry 12-Fundamental Chemistry II Sec. 1-Scaife-BU 204 Section 2-Quaai-BU 204 Section 3-Weick-BU 204 Section 4-Scaife-BU 204 Chemistry 142-Chemical Instrumentation-Werner-BH 102 Chemistry 154-Physical Cbemistry III-Anderson-BH 104 Mathematics 18-Introduction to Logic and Set T!:eory-Zwicker-BH 1116 Physics 13-Introduction to Physics II (For Physical Science and Engineering Majors)-Sec. 2-Maleki-Bll201 . . Physics 42-Great Ideas of Modern PhysJCs-Ohaman-sH 106 Physics 134-Physical Optics-swartz-SH 219 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 3-Huntley-PY 102 Psychology 33-Cognitive Psychology-Greenberg-PY 213 Psychology 37-Psychology Through Literature-Calabria-PY113 Psychology 62-Practicwn ~ Human Relatio~ 1-Girdne:-P¥204 . Engineering Liberal Learnmg 11-Transportatwn, Planrung and Society-Jewell BU 1116 E.S. 26-Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer, Sec. 2-Aubrey-N 222 E.S. 33-Fluid Systems Analysis-Ketchum-N 116 C.E. 143-Foundations and Concrete Construction-Harlow-BU 109 C.S. 12-Programming for the Sciences-Goodheart-ss 016 Monday, March 16- 2: 00-4:00 p.m. Economics 11-Elementary Economics, Sec. 1-Lewis-88 117 Political Science 12-Contemporary International Politics, Sec. 1-Pelletiere-ss 113 Biology 21-Biology of Anilnals-Core I-Roth-BH 207 Geology 10-Physical Geology-Zimmerman-BU 109 Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I (For Class of '84 Engineers), Sec. 1-Pilcher- BH201 .. d Physics 13-Introduction to Physics II (For Biology, Science, Humamtles an Social Science Majors?-Hall-8H 101 . . Physics 12G-IntroductJOn to Astronomy and Astrophys1cs-T1tus-sH 100 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 1-Markiewicz-PY 113 Psychology 20-Statistical Methods in Psychology-Greenberg-PY 213 E.S. 26-Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer, Sec. 1-Shanebrook-8H 110 E.S. 70-Managerial and Engineering Economics--Griggs-BU 1116 C.S. 10-Perspectives on Computer Languages and Software-Schwarz-BH 104 C.S. 11-FORTRAN Programming for the Social Sciences-Branch-BH 203 C.S. 18-lntroduction to Computer Organization-Hassib-HU 115 Tuesday, March 17-9:00-11:00 a.m. Freshman Preceptorial 10-Perception and Persuasion, Sec. 2-Hartwig-HU 112 Liberal Learning 50-Special Topics in Geology-D. Stone-SS 016 Classics40-Democracy and Federalism in the AncientWorld-Reece-HU 104 Economics tO-Elementary Economics, Sec. 1-Prosper-SS 115 Economics 138-Quantitative Methods in Economics-Klein-8S 014 Economics 144-International Economics-Phaup-HU 116 English 43-Humanities II: Middle Ages and Renasissance-FreWld-HU 019 English 69-Modern British Fiction-Marten-HU 115 History 122-American Constitutional and Legal History: The State and the In- dividual-Allen-SS 012 History 142-Conservatism, Liberalism, and Socialism-Hansen-SS 010 French 11-Basic French ll-Warger-HU 110 German 11-Basic German II-Kellenter-HU 117 Philosophy 17....Sex and SO<)iety-Baker-HU 114 Political Science 12-Contemporary International Politics, Sec. 2-Gati-88 113 Political Science 62-Judicial System-Daniels-SS 117 Political Science 88-Conte:mporary Politics of the Middle East-Pelletiere-SS 112 Sociology 10-lntroduction to Sociology, Sec. 1-Weinter-CH 205 Accounting 10-Financial Accounting-Hurley-BH 201 Biology 11-Topics in Contemporary Biology-Lambert-N 116 Biology 24-Genetics and Evolution-Core IV-Butzel, Boyer-BU 204 Biology 144-Cytology-8mith-BH 102 Mathematics tO-Calculus l-Gillette-BH 106 Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I (For Class of '84 Engineers), Sec. 2-St. Peters-SH 110 . . . Physics 13-Introduction to Physics II (Physical Science and Engmeermg MaJors), Sec. 1-Reich-SH 106 Physics 36-Methods of Theoretical Physics-Newman-sH. 219 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 2-Calabna-PY 113 Psychology 31-Abnormal Psychology-Nydegger-PY 102 Psychology 46-Introduction, to Psychobiology-Markiewicz-PY 213 E.S. 20-Mechanics D-Panlilio-BU 109 E.S. 33-Fluid Systems Analysis-Jewell-BH 108 C.E. 10-lntroduction to Comrnunications-Griggs-BU 106 C.E. 130-Structures-Doenig-BH 104 E.E. 36-System Theory II-Russ-BH 207 M.E. SO-Dynamics of Linear Systems-Bingham-BH 205 Tuesday, March 17- 2:1J0...4:00p.m. Latin 142-Roman Letter-Writing-Ketterer-HU 116 Economics 11-Elementary Economics Sec. 2-Ginsberg-SS 016 Section 3-Ginsberg-SS 016 Section 4-Ginsberg-SS 016 Mathematics 30-0rdinary Differential Equations Section 1-Gillette-BH 207 Section 2-Gillette-BH 207 Section 3-Fairchild-BH 203 Wednesday, Mareh 18- 9:00..11:00a.m. Freslunan Elective 46-Women and Change in the Third World-Huggins-SS 113 Liberal Learning 21-stereo, Television, and Electronics--Craig-BU 109 Liberal Learning 34-History of Science 1-Reece-HU 115 Greek 11-Principles of Greek-Ouellette-HU 116 Economics 31-Microeconomic Analysis-Klein -ss 112 English 63-Literature of the Romantic Period I-Freund-HU 112 History 58-The Holocaust-Berk-CH 205 History 64-the Role of Business in U.S.•Latin American Relations-Bristol-SS 012 French 137-8hort Fiction in France-McDermott-HU 117 Spanish 130-Readings in Contemporary Spanish and Spanish-American Literature-Ihrie-HU 016 Philosophy 2~lassical Logic-Kaminsky-HU 014 Political Science tO-Contemporary Political Analysis-Brown-SS 115 Political Science 68-Electoral Politics--Hartwig-SS117 Sociology 163-History of Sociological Thought-Weiner-SH 219 Biology 62-World Agriculture-Tobiessen, Schadler-N 116 Biology 66-Sex and Sexuality-Lambert-SS 016 Biology 170-General and Comparative Endocrinology-Butterstein-BH 207 Chemistry 10-FWldamental Chemistry I Section 1-8chaefer-BU 204 Section 2-Andetson-BU 204 Section 3-Anderson-BU 204 Mathematics 32-Abstract Algebra 1-Rosen-BH 108 Mathematics 146-Advanced Calculus I...:Seiken-BH 203 Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I (Biology, Science, Humanities and Social Science Majors)-Schick-8H 106 Physics 13-Introduction to Physics II (Physical Science and Engineering Majors), Sec. 3-Peak-8H 101 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 4-Spring-PY 102 Psychology 24-Social Psychology-Lipton-PY 113 Psychology 36-Animal Learning-Markiewicz-PY 204 Psychology 38-Developmental Psychology-Brltain-PY 213 E.S. 22-Science of Engineering Materials-Millillo--BH 201 E.S. 30-Mechanics of Deformable Solids-Panlillo-BU 106 C.E. 152-Environmental Engineering I-Snow-BH 102 Wednesday, March 18 • 2:00-4:00 p.m. Economics 42-Macroeconomic Theory and Policy-Kershner-SS 115 English 28-Epic-Lyric-FreWld-HU 110 German 140-Das Deutsche Mittelalter-gwarde-HU 116 Philosophy 134-Analytic Philosophy-Lud:wig-HU 112 Sociology 128-Sociology of Medicine-Schneller-BH 100 Ad. & Mgt. 241-8ystems Analysis and Simulation-Yazici-BH 104 Biology 36-Invertebrate Zoology-B. Boyer-BH 205 Chemistry 32-0rganic Chemistry II Section 1-Sheffer-BU 204 Section 2-Hull-BU 204 Psychology 63-Practicwn in Human Relations 11-Girdner-PY 213 Psychology 66-Seminar in Social Psychology-Lipton-PY 102 E.S. 11-Engineerinl Graphics-Harlow-BU 109 E.S. 11-Engineering Graphics-Eisenstadt-BU 106 C.S. 130-Data Structures--G. Williams-HU 115 Thursday, March 19-9:00-11:00 a.m. Music 14-Tonal Theory II-Tann-AB 105 Economics 10-Elementary Economics, Sec. 2-Phaup-SS 112 History 15-Colonial America, 1607-1776-Wells-SS 113 Chinese 11-Basic Intensive Chinese II-Lo-HU 110 German 136-Early Twentieth Century Gennan Literature-Kellenter-HU 116 Spanish 151-Seminar-Ginsberg-HU 117 Philosophy 76-Philosophy of Law-Baker-HU 114 Physics 140-lntroduction to Quantum Mechanics-Schick-sH 219 E.L.L. 33-Energy l-8hanebrook-N 116 E.S. 31-Electrical Circuits and Devices I Sec. 1-Chang-BH 201 Section 2-Kump-BH 207 E.S. 48-lntroduction to Semiconductor Devices and Circuits Section 1-Kump-BH 207 Section 2-Branch-BH 203 AOP 10-Pre-Calculus Mathematics-Fisher-BE 102 Thursday, March 19- 2:110-4:00p.m. Freshman Elective 22-Changing Society and the Family in Arnerica-Kaplan-8S 117 Art 30-Introduction to Art History II-Rohrer-AB 104 English 191-Seminar: English Literature II-Marten-HU 110 Hebrew 11-Basic Hebrew II-Heckelman-HU 112 Spanish 141-Contemporary Hispanic Theater-Ginsberg-HU 116 Philosophy 32-Modern Philosophy-Kaminsky-HU 117 Political Science 32-American Political Thought-Brown-ss 115 Sociology 141-Crime and Justice in Society-Huggins-HU 019 Statistics tO-Introduction to Statistics-Delaney-BH 104 Statistics 110-Introduction to Statistical Methods-Hohnes-BH 100 Adm. & Mgt. 211-Managerial Accounting-Hurley-BH 205 Chemistry 162-Polymer Chemistry I-8heffer-N 222 Psychology 39-Introduction to the Study of Sex Roles-Biitain-PY 113 :P!!ychology 49-Clinical Models of Psychotherapy II-Dowling-PY 102 E.S. 10-Mechanics I Section 1-Ullman-BU 109 Section 2-Weiss-HU 115 Section 3-Weiss-HU 115 C.S. 37-8tructured Programming-Hannay~BH 207 AOP 03-College Science-Enokian-BH 102 Friday, March 20- 9:110-11: 00 a.m. German 133-The German Language in Practical Use I-Kellenter-HU 110 Russian 11-Basic Russian II-Jernakoff-HU 114 Mathematics 12-Calculus II Section 1-Reynolds-BH 108 Section 2-Zwicker-HU 115 Section 3-Taylor-ss 115 Section 4-Cole-BH 207 Section 5-Zw!cker-HU 115 Section.6-Barbanel-BU 204 Section 7-Cole-BH 207 Section 8-Pappas-BU 201 Section 9-Barbanel-BU 204 Mathematics 14-Calculus III Section 1-8tone-BH 205 Section 2-8eiken-BH 104 Mathematics 2G-Mathematical Methods for the Social Sciences Section 1-Taylor-SS 115 Section 2-Rosen-BH 203 Section 3-Pappas-BH 201 Mathematics 28-Probability Section 1-Rosenthal-HU 019 Section 2-Rosenthal-HU 019 Mathematics 180-Foundations of Mathematics-Taylor, Zwicker-HU 115 Psychology 72-The Family and Interpersonal Dynamics-{}irdner-PY 102 Friday, Marcb20-Z:0()-4:00p.m. English 49-Emergence of the Filnunaker as Artist-Gado-SS 016 French 133-The French Language in Pratical Use I Section 1-McDennott-HU 116 Section 2-Warger-IID 117 German 10-Basic German I Section 1-Warde-HU 112 Section 2-Mache-HU 114 Spanish 10-Basic Spanish I Section 1-Ginsberg-HU 110 Section 2-Ihrie-HU 115 Mathematics 100-Complex Analysis-Barbanel-BH 205

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS, February 26~ 1981 zrts Bill Staines will appear at Coffeehouse this Friday Term Abroad at Smythe House Union College offers a wide range of formal resident-study programs in foreign countries. In the foreign country the student in most instances lives independently with a family and participates in the normal cultural life of the community. Courses include language study, a broad examination of the history, literature, art and politics of the region and a third course that sometimes involves independent study. Whether you take a term in . Spain, France, Israel, England or any of the other countries that are offered, you will surely return with a feeling of satisfaction. There is no diputing the fact that a Union College term abroad is a great living and learning experience. This spring, the term abroad office is initiating a new program. For the first time, a term abroad will be offered right here at Smythe House. That's right, with the help of W.T. Smythe, we have received administrative approval to offer a term at Smythe. The term will include living with the Smythe family, lear- ning our culture and performing certain rituals. We are a cooperative hottsehold and do everything together. From dawn to dusk we are cooperatively living. For in- stance, a routine day at Smythe begins at 5:00 a.m. with the Smythe House Rockers on WRUC. As you can see the beer begins to flow early. The main attractions to this term abroad are the aforementioned rituals. These spring term rituals include excessive afternoon keg tap- pings, serious rocking and rolling and massive partying in general. We are now accepting ap- plications for spring term '81. In fifty words or less state why you would be interested in par- ticipating in this term abroad. Send applications to Eustas P. Smythe, Box 1080. Deadline: March 6. culture Moun1ebanks to be Revive·d By PAUL GROSSMAN One of the oldest performing arts groups in the country is going to be revived. Students are organizing the Moun- Coffeehouse This :Friday, the Union College Coffeehouse will present yet another amazing performer. No stranger to the Union campus, Bill Staines is known to sing and yodel one's heart away, along with getting your feet stornpin' and hands clappin'. Bill's show includes songs ranging from traditim1al folk tunes to more con- temporary country ballads. ' Particularily enjoyable are his sing-;alongs and yodeling numbers. Bill is a veteran performer, spending the past tebanks once again to serve as a vehicle for students to get in~ volved in theater. here at Union. When asked why Moun- tebanks is being re-formed, one of the organizers, Andy Levine, said, ''We have only one type of theater here at Union now, the kind that puts on things like 'The Crucible.'·' We want to provide an outlet for smaller, fun productions like last year's \You're A Good Man Charlie Brown.\ This way, believes Andy, students that might be interested in doing theater . do not have to be frightened by the la·rger scale productions. To announce their revival, and to attempt to stir interest .in the club (which had been successful for many years) Mountebanks will be presenting a cabaret-type nightclub next Tuesday. Andy promises a different sort of experience from what can usually be found at a Cabaret. The evening will include some of the most talented _people in the Union community, most of whom are now appearing in the smash hit, Workfug. (See review, page 7.} Theater at Union will become much more exciting and much more accessible to so many with the re-formation of Mountebanks. It will be in- teresting to see what new ad- ditions the old Mountebanks will provide for the College com- munity. ten years traveling the country, singing at college campuses, ~ festivals, clubs and cof- :0 feehouses, and recording many :5 great albums. More so than 02 most performers, Staines .!!.! transforms the place he is :0 performing into a living room, 6 ' so that his concerts feel more >- .0 ·uke an old friend .playing songs for his buddies than a show. So, come join the fun and listen to some great music (not to mention coffee, tea and donuts) this Friday, Feb. 27 ,. at 8:30 p.m. in the Cabaret Room. Th.ere will be an in- formal workshop Social Drinking and Alcohol Abuse Thurs., Feb. 26, 4th fir. lounge, Carnegie Hall. The focus of the workshop is on how to recognize and cope with the problem drinker. AU are welcome. Fro more i n f o r m a t i o n c a I. I · Michael Andolina at 370- 6061 or Brion Carroll at 370-6117. 0 +- 0. -ar M.C.'s Rich Cabaret Tanenbaum and Will Lloyd at last week's CABARET THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26th Act 1 : Judybeth Greene Act 2: Charlie T and the Undergrads MC: Debbie Frisch Showsat9and 11 p.m. Ticketsonsaleata p.m. in Carnegie Mountebanks Presents: Tuesday, March 3 M.C.: Dan Lacoff Performers: Tom F.; Deme; Bambi; Mary; Dani; Eric; Andy; Fe; Melissa Times: 9 and 11 p.m. shows Tickets: $1 Con sale at 8 p.m. in Carnegie Hall} Refreshments: wine, punch and cheese, served at nomina I cost ' 1 ••• not only an arduous undertaking, but an enviable achievement. Graced by Tom Briggs' direction and choreography and enhanced by some wonderful performances, Union 1 S WORKING is for theatregoers, a gift of extraordinary energy ... WORKING is not merely an excellent production, it is ... a feat of theatrical magic.\ POEM Lying naked, I tell you that I love you Dan DiNicola Schenectady Gazette 0 Additional Performances! '· v0 0~ (j ~ 'vo Saturday, 28th & Sunday, 1st Matinees 2:00 p.m. Box office open 1-8 P·~· or call 370-6153 and you tell me that you love me y~t we are lying, naked. -andrea Lyle invites all you hungry Union students to We're open to the wee hours. Let us make you ome of our fine Submarines. 460 State St. 370-2566 - Se• been poet Yeat this l spea Poet in th Roor read 8:30 spon: Arts He in thl Nortl he de and muni atter dond1 M Ti 0 0 T1 N 0 F' B Tl r: h< Tl I, A In M Tl AI Ol Is In C< w ta: - - Th~ C04 • ... -·

OONOORDIENSIS, February S6, ;1.981 Page 7 arts culture Sean1us Heaney to Visit Union Seamus Heaney, who has University in Belfast, .where h~ been called \Ireland's greatest studied English literature and poet since William Butler enjoyed the company of friends Yeats,\ will be visiting Union who \stood or hUI1g. or sleep- this Friday, Feb. 27. He will be walked betwee-n notions of speaking on \'f:h~ Processes of writing gleaned :from English Poetic Composition\ at 4 p.m. courses, and the living reality of in the Schaffer Library Music writers they did not know.\ His Room, and giving a poetry early poems about family and reading in the same room at homeland were eventually 8:30 p.m. Both programs are forced to give way to subjects sponsored b:y IDOL, the College raised by the religious and Arts magazme. politicalbombings that began to Heaney was raised on a farm occur regularly fn Belfast, in the townland of Mossbawn in where he was teaching writing Northern Ireland,. a country, as_ and literature. In 197~ Heaney he describes it, ''of air and light left Northern Ireland to live in and black earth,\ \of com- the south; and, except for the munity {;lnd of division,\ He time be has spent in the United attended school in Lon- States at Berkeley and Har- donderry, and later at Queen's vard, he has resided there since My grandfather cut ~ore turf in a day Than any other man on Toner's bog. Once I carried him milk in a bottle Corked sloppily with paper. He straightened up To drink itr then fell to right away Nicking and slicing neatly, heaving sods Over his shoulder, going down and down For the good turf, Digging . . . B'etween my finger and my thmnb The squat pen rests. I'll dig with it. And this is true when he is writing with quiet rage and horror about terrorism in Ireland: This morning from a dewy motorway I saw the new camp for the internees: A bomb had left a crater of fresh clay In the roadside, and over in the trees Machine-gun posts defined a real stockade. There was that white mist you get on a low ground And it was deja-vu, some film made Of Stalag 17, a bad dream with no.sound. Is there a life before death? That's chalked up In Ballymurphy. Competence with pain, Coherent miseries, a bite and sup, · We hug our little destiny again. Everyone is invited to attend Seamus Heaney's afternoon talk and evening reading on Friday. Th~ best thing to happen to Union since we _went coed. It's the NOTTWinS! Sunday at 11 p.m. on WRUC ~ i1 l . ; ... . ·.~ ~- ' . FORT MIAMI DAYTONA LAUDERDALE BEACH BEACH $119a $99. $99. All rates include lodging at deluxe ocean front hotels. All rates are subject to a $18.00 tax and service charge. OPTIONAL: Transportation to Miami Ft. Lauderdale and Daytona is available $79.00 Bound Trip . •FEB. 28. MAlt 7 •MAR. 1· MAR. 14 •MAR. 14 ·MAR. 21 : I •MAR. 21 ·MAlt 28•MAR. 28 • A.,PR. 4 •APR. 11 , APR. 18 •APR. 18 • APR. 25 with his wife and three children. As an essayist discussing poetry, Heaney writes that \poef!:y is secret and natural\ and likens it to a \dig a dig for finds that end up being plants .. \ As a skiUful digger himself, he advises, ''You have to be true to your own sensibility, for the faking of feelings is a sin against the imagination.'' Because honesty and integrity are as important a part of his method as skill, Heaney never commits this sin. This is true when he is writing with warmth and clearsighted.ness about the differences between his family and himself. Poet Seamus Heaney will speak tomorrow in the Schaffer Library music room at 4 and 8:30 p.m. WORKING A Smash By JULIE ISGR<:) Nott Memorial Theater was full but not crowded and the people seemed to be an ordinary Sunday afternoon crowd. But from the very beginning of the first number it was obvious, that Working is no ordinary production. This non-fictional musical, adapted from Studs Te11kel's book by Stephen Sch- wartz and Steven Faso, was directed by Tom Briggs. It features songs by Craig Car- nella and James Taylor among others. Also featured is a cast of 20, each .of whom seems literally to be transformed into whatever character they happen to be portraying at the moment. This group of actors and actresses is obviously talented and pulls out every stop to make each scene and each song alive for the audience. Although there is not a traditional plot, the action takes place in a 24-hour period. It is a day in the lives of average American workers. Their dreams, their need for recognition and their lives become very real for the two and a half hours of the show and last even .after the last song is finished. The songs serve not only to make the time of day but to give continuity to the show and to keep it moving quickly for .its duration. The show starts on a Monday morning at 6 a.m. The first song, \All the Livelong Day,\ performed by the entire com- pany gives only an inkling of what would come later. They work so well together that it is hard to believe they have been together for only s.ix weeks. In the next number, Russel Ruckerstuhl, and Nicholas Bouloukos manage to capture the audience as they ride around on bikes and sing \Neat to be a Newsboy.'' When \Lovin' Al,\ the parking lot attendant, -~(played by Greg Grant) steps out of his work clothes and steps into his own car wearing a sequined tuxedo, the show is definitely underway. In the first act Felicia Salvacion and Bambi Schlauch were especially convincing in their roles as a migrant farm worker and a housewife. Car- men Martinez is not only con- vincing but hilarious as she shows her supervisor who's boss when he unreasonably asks her to do some typing for him. One of the funniest and most spectacular moments of the show is when Demetra Pon- tisakos is transformed into Delores Dante, a waitress who couldn't be happier with her job. Demetra's spirit is suited to this part and transforms it into a special one. Her song, \It's an Art!' has to be one of the most memorable in the show. Act Two is just as good as Act One. \Traffic Jam\ by James A Concert Union Jazz Ensemble F.riday, February 27 at 8:30 in Memorial Chapel Director: Michael Scott Guest Soloist: Dr. Thomas D'Andrea It's Free! Taylor is given a whole new dimension by the innovative choreography by Tom Briggs. \Fathers and Sons,\ done by Dan Lacoff, Tom Farrell and Daro Beninati is one of th most touching songs in the show. Farrell's portrayal of a copy boy and of a mason got chuckles from even the most con- servative in the audience. Fine performances were also given by Bambi Schlauch as a telephone operator who manages to switch her voice on and off with her words and Chris Gaynor as Frank; Deck, an interstate trucker. He and Andy Levine do an excellent job as they sing \Brother Trucker.'' The most moving song in the show is \Cleanin' Women\ performed by Carmen Mar- tinez. This is definitely one of the best numbers in the whole- show. Carmen puts everything she's got into this one and the result is fantastic. Her por- trayal of a woman who's determined to work so her daughter will have it better is persuasive and definitely shows her talent. This review .can only mention a few of the highlights of Working. That doesn't mean there aren't more. The production is professional and entertaining. There were a few technical mistakes but nothing worth mentioning. Working is worth going to see once and then even again. Extra Performances The Arts Department has announced that matinee per- formances of its current production Working will be held Saturday, Feb. 28, and Sunday, March 1, in the College's Nott Memorial Theatre. Curtain time is 2 p.m. All evening performances of Working are sold out. Tickets for the weekend matinees are $5 and are available from 1 to 8 p.m. daily at the Nott box: office. Seating for the extra performances will be on a first-come, first-served basis. Working is a musical production of Studs Terkel's best selling book Working: People Talk About What They Do All Day and How They Feel About What They Do. For more information, contact the Nott box office at 370-6153.

'Page 8 OONOORDIENSJ.S,. February 146, 1981 Beware: Blue Skies Over Union: Rites of Dionysus Spring. Species By D. BOOTH Although spring officially begins March 21, its first ap- pearance . U})State is often delayed until early May, This year has proved to be an ex- ception. There is nothing to assure that the first breath of spring will last, yet by the same · token, there is nothing to assure that it will not. Which means that the rites of spring, the ceremonies welcoming the wann breeze, will necessarily be celebrated somewhat earlier than usual. In times long .beyond our memories, spring would have been celebrated with wild abandon. Everyone would have realized that they had survived the winter, _and with this realization a feast would have been held with the last of the food· steres. Naturally there would also be the last of the wine to be finished, and one thing leads to another . . . Of course I would never suggest that we consciously imitate these ancient debaucheries, if only because in today's world · we have very little need to repopulate after the winter. Nonetheless, a little more wild abandon wouldn't hurt. The first step in the celebration of spring is to hold a party. II!vitations suggestJhat everyone will overcome tneir inhibitions and licentious behavior will ensue. Everyone will · try to look .romantic 'by wearing flowe1·s in their hair, and by wearing lignt-colored clothes. TomCollinses and Sloe Gin Fizzes will .flow and barefoot dancing will be common. Perhaps even a toga party is in order. Togas are noted for two things, namely their loose and relming com- forts, and the ease with which they are removed, an important detail for a debauchery. And in the spirit of certain ancient customs, perhaps even a virgin can be sacrificed. The object of such a party is to throw one's cares to the wind. A conscious effort should be made to follow the teachings of Dionysus, and', . .like Ibsen's Hedda Gabler, go home with the vine leaves in our hair. It is appropriate .for women to ask men to dance, or .anything else they desire to ask. It is also appropriate, and indeed ex- pected, that all stay awake to see the sun rise. For those who have'llever seen the .stm rise at Union, it is particularly beautiful when it is high enough to shine through the Nott Memorial. The stained glass is lit, it explodes with light that shimmers acr()SS the field toward West. The next step in the celebration CJf the rites of spring is the outdoor brunch. This brunch is served on the driest spot possible;. but it d()esn't really matter because everyCJne will be standing around drinking Bloodies (Bloody Marys, the best possible hangover drink) and standing in the shade to hide the .bags under their eyes. A proper bloody is made by mixing tornat() juice, vodka, salt, pepper,, Worchester sauce, and tabasco together. Served at luncheons with celery, they are served at brunch with limes, for no one can stand the loud crunching of celery. In pioneer days in America, it was common for the settlers to prepare large batches of Sassafras Tea to thin the blood, whieh had thickened from the inactivity of the winter. If a rites of spring party followed by a Dionysian brunch haven't thinned one's blood con- siderably, consider a Sunday Champagne Flood to end the celebration. Taking upon itself all the ceremony and mysticism of a pagan cult, the Flood begins with a libation to the earth, after which 50 bottles of champagne are simultaneously · opened, and subsequently finished off. Personally, I believe that a weekend like this would cure everyone of winter sloth and lethargy. Bring your own vine leaves and remember that Dionysus is an enjoyable god to have as a friend. (Watch this colwnn next week for a list of Florida parapher- nalia.) By A.N,ONYMOUS Witll a little bit of spring term in the air, itis easy to spot some of the rarer species of student around Union <;ollege. Take hee4, and recognize the characteristics, the .trappings and behavior of these in· dividuals and decide whether or not you are a seasonal student. You maybe one ofthem and not even lmow it. First, and most obvious, is the Shorts Enthusiast. This bird has a very .difficult life during the winter\ when he-she must wear shorts inside, where only a limited number may see their perfectly structured legs. These types are usually athletes, or casual joggers who take great pride in being the only Qnes with goose bumps on their air· exposed limbs. You have to admit, though, they are beautifully shaped goose bumps. A good complement to the shorts enthusiast is the Skirt \ Enthusiast. In most cases, this type tends to be female, and quite aware of the dangers of wearing a skirt in sub-zero or hurricane weather. She waits until the first nice day in the space of a few months and then tries to shDck everyone with the ''feminine\ look. Much to her chagrin, 60 percent of the female population is also trying to shock the campus, too. 'Growing Together' If you are not paying attention to where you are walking, or you are looking at a skirt en- thusiast, you may be hit by a flying \Disc.\ This probably means that a Frisbee Individual is close by, trying to \delay\ and throw \forehands.\ It may not be as easy as you think to pick them out. They are not always in torn jeans and sporting long hair and a ban- dana. In fact, one or two of them I find in so many people an overwhelming tendency to complain about the lack of things to do in Schenectady and at Union. Yet I know that the possibilities are endless, and I have not even begun to plumb the depths of my imagination. But I often wonder if much of the problem ()f few activities is a result of a peculiar syndrome which I shall refer to as the ''on the go\ syndrome. This syndrome has many symptoms. The first and foremost is found by answering the following question: \Are you bored in a room by your- self?\ If the answer is yes, you are exhibiting the first syn- drome. There seems to be an inability in certain people to relax. They must be on the go, hopping from one bar to the next,. discoing every night, constantly serving on com- mittees, etc. Considering that man is a social animal, this might be thought of as normal, or just the sign of an extrovert. And I must add that there is not anything wrong with these things except when these eldernal stimuli become a substitute for internal stimuli. Everyone knows someone like this; they are usually described on a one-to- one basis as having the per- sonality of a postage stamp. To suceed as a social animal, a man must first understand and respect himself. I have no suggestiqns about how to do this, but I think that when a person spends some time with himself, thinking a bout where his life is going and what he wants out of life, .he is bound to know something about himself. I enjoy the timer spend al()ne. It may give me the tirne to dream and indulge in flightless fan- tasies, but it also gives me the time to really tbink about myself. This is part of what gives character and molds personality, making external stimuli fun, but not making it a definition of personality. As far as being a social .animal goes, I feel that this is hardly a debatable fact. To be sure, there are those individuals who do not like men, and some are more anti-social than others, but the vast majority at one time or another need someone. Yet again there is somewhat of a tendency to over-. extend oneself. Although one could conceivably l()ve all that portion of mankind' which one feels is true and just, one doesn't have the time. There is simply not the tillle to know so marty people, I am always wary of those people who loudly discuss all the people they know. Perhaps they do know them, perhaps even on a first- name basis. Yet hCJw well do they know these multitudes of people, does their knowledge even border tlDderstanding? There is a process which I like to call ''growing together.\ It is · simply the art of being able to be with a person. It is the ability to sit on a porch swing with that person for homs watching the ~louds go by. :Being with a . person brings about the un- derstanding which will pass by those who only seek an eldernal being. If there must be an activity advocated for this week it is a simple one. Get together with your friend, on that one-to•one basis and talk. Or just sit and relax. Talk about the shape of the foot or why the grass is green. Look into their eyes; how many of you can describe your best friend's eyes in detail? Spend an evening together, spend the night together .. Try to imagine that there isn't any external stimuli, and rely on who and what you are to provide your entertainment. Remember that it is better to have one friend than 50 acquaintances. · 464 State St. we deliver BEFORE THE JAMES TAYLOR CONCERT : . . COME 10 Peggy's for Dinner Complete Dinner Special: ~ 8 oz. Sirloin Steak Baked Potato . Fresh Vegetable Tossed Green Salad Rolls and Butter Pudding or Ice Cream $5.95 or your choice from our regular menu SEE YOU THERE! d may even be in your Physi'cs or Dynamics. class. Your best bet in identifying them is to watch where the Frisbee goes {how simple!) It'.s strange how these types multiply faster as the weather gets warmer. Another prolific species is the winter term Senior Waiting for Spring~ This bird starts to daydream about spring term when he or she will be com- fortably into medical, law, dental, or graduate school, or knows of a few g()od · job prospects. In most cases, the thesis and requirements will be finished and the student's only responsibility will be to cruise about campus and appear at the 'Skellar once in a while to show that they are alive. A false spring is a very cruel time for these individuals. They feel like they are in spring term, when it really hasn't arrived yet. When the weather turns bad again, these individuals will most likely sink into deep depression, and slowly recover as the weather hits a warming trend. It is very predictable. Caution: Periods of ecstatic behavior may be followed by periods of madness, especially when it is realized that spring term is the last. 'Fender loving care is recommended. In addition to the major categories listed above, you can often spot your Dog Watchers and Walker!!, _rour Strolling Professor. your Sunning Student ( wh() believes that a tan can be gotten by sitting in the sun while reading Nietzsche. This is ridiculous because Nietzsche is too thick to let the rays in.), and a hQst of other varieties that were native to the dormitories in the winter. Spot them, write down their names! Trade with your friends! Become one of them if you dare. Schenectady 374-1888 Features Needs Writers! Call D. Booth {6570) or Judi ·Chervenak (6475) J u 11\ E tt de UJ rE e' tb n< de Ql ol< UI d bt ne m 19: a co WI an sb ' the se dri jOJ thl po

or bet (how these the is the for to term :com- law, or · job the be the show cruel They turns will deep by oving chers a tan the use the other the Spot dare. OON.QOBDIENS.IS~ Fe.b'r'Uar'JI .. $6., :1.9~1 Page 9 ures Pro·ctor's Revitalizes By CORALYN HERTZBERG This Saturday night,. the Union College Concert Com- mittee is presenting \An 'Evening with James Taylor\ at the Proctor's Theatre in downtown Schenectady. Many upper classmen here can remember when no one had ever even considered using this theatre, simply because it was non-functional, as was most of downtown Schenectady until quite recently. The theater is actUally very old and had a rich history right up to 1979, when a group of local dtizens decided that this building was too valuable to be neglected as it had been for more than 20 years. The theate~ was opened in 1926, as both a movie hom;e and a vaudeville theater. Building costs reached $15 million. There was also, s there still is to~y, an attached arcade to house shops and offices. As time progressed, the theater also was being used for several Broadway-type dramatic productions. It en- joyed a lot of popularity until the 1950's, when television's popularity brought its demise. Before television, it has been said, the average family went to movie houses three times a week. From the late fifties through the sixties, the theater declined, but continued to show all types of movies-from porno films to family features. Finally j the city of Schenectady .confiscated the theater from_ its owner, who owed the city several million dollars in back taxes. The city continued ownership, but the theater was barely used for several years, until early 1979. At this time, 23 'local citizens petitioned the city to give the theater back to its original owner so that it could be once again used. . The group was originally ACTS-Art Center and Theater of Schenectady, Inc., but now simply uses the name Proctor's. The city agreed to the petition, and one-half million dollars in restoration money was ap- propriated to get the theater back on its feet. Most of the money came from the · Schenectady community, thanks to the fund;.raising ac- tivity ·of ACTS Inc. Some of it also came from Federal Community Development' .. 1115 BARRETT ST. SCHENECTADY_ PHONE 377 ~264·2 or 382-8684 Ho.mestyle Italian Cooking Salad Bar Included with All Pasta· & All Dinners Reasonable ·prices Plus a 1 0% Discount to Union College Students with IDs Banquet Facilities loans. In the two years since the theater has reopened, the original investment has been matched through profits, of· ficials say. The building itself is on the National Historic Register, which means that federal law protects it from ever being torn down. And anyone who has ever seen the theater can testify to its beauty. The fact that it is now being used for such a variety of purposes-ballets, Broadway- type ·productions and concerts- is also encouraging. DennisMadden, the theater's business director, is very proud of the recent alliance between the theater and Union College's concert committee. The two shows last year were a big success, and Mr. Madden feels that the same will be true of Saturday night's concert, which is sold out. He trusts the Union College student body, and hopes to continue to woi:k with the College in the future. But he also felt the Union College students should be aware of all of the types of entertainment that the theater provides. . I ~\\'\\'\1 --.......li Novelist Visits- Union Edmund White will be par- ticipating in a writing workshop (HU 114;2:30 to 4:20p.m.} and will be reading from his recent work at 8 p.m. Qn. March 3, in the Humanitie~ Faculty Lounge. Mr. White has been an editor of Saturday Review and of Horizon and has contributed to such publications as Poetry, Art in America, Harper's, The New Republic, and the Washington Post. His books include two novels, FClrgetting Elena and Nocturnes for the ·KING OF Naples, and a travel book, States of Desire: Travels iii Gay America. His most recently published fiction, a short story entitle·d \First Love,\ appeared in Christopher Street last summer. It is an excerpt from a novel currently in progress. Mr White's work has won high praise. The New York Times called Forgetting Elena \a masterful piece of work . . . astonishing.\ The Nation called it \profound totally convincing and memorable,\ and Newsweek said that \as a writer, White possesses the rare combination of a sense of language an an ironic sense of humor . . . Forgetting Elena is one of the most finely worked and satisfying novels to appear in some time.\ About White's .second novel, Nocturnes for the King of Naples Richard Howard wrote that \Mr. White has eroticized the classical unities-~place is sensual here, time is remem- bered only, and action is ec- static-to create a dazzling, lacerating novel which makes only one exaction of the reader: that he recognize his own capacity for receiving delight.'' It is little wonder that Edmund White is the novelist whom Vladimir Nabokov, shortly before his death, named as the American writer he most ad- . mired. Intellectual Cabaret Presents A Discussion on the Exist·ence of God Refreshments · Served with Reverend Stuart Jones Professor Julian Cole Professor Peter Heinegg Admission Free

Page 10 BULLETIN BOARD Applications for 1981 · ASSEMBLY SUMMER IN- TERNSHIPS in Albany are available from Pat Matteo in The Career Center. Interested students must have completed their Junior year by June, 1981 to be eligible. Qualifications: superior academic record, strong research and analytical ski:lls, and an·interest in public policy analysis and the func- tions of the legislature. Spring Term Abroad students who want to be Orientation Advisors, see Mike Andolina in Student Affairs Office or call 606L Union College is presently seeking a Pool Manager-Head Lifeguard and ( 4) full-time lifeguards for their summer pool eperation atGerling Center Pool. (June 1st-september 6). The Pool Manager-Head Life : · Guard includes coordination • and scheduling and supervision . of the ( 4) full-time lifeguards. Also organization and im- plementation of swimming lessons, swim team, water ballet, family picnics and teen parties. Applicants should possess the following required qualifications: 1) WSI Certification 2) Red Cross Certification 3) Ability to work effectively with little supervision Please submit resume and cover letter to : Personnel Office Sillhnan Hall Union College ' Schenectady, NY 12308 Telephone: 370-6108. \The Existence of God\ will be the topic for hhe next Intellectual Cabaret discussion. Speaking wUl be Prof. Cole; Prof. Heinegg; and Rev. Stuart Jones. All interested, please attend: Monday, 9 p.m., in the· Cabaret Room. The staff of the Union Office of Financial Aid will be offering information sessions for off- campus students and members of fraternities to answer questions about how and when to apply for aid. The sessions will be held on Tuesday and Wednesday, March 3 and 4, at 7:00 p.m. in . Room 010 of the Social Science . Building. Two sessions are being offered for your con- venience, and students from either fraternities or off- campus may attend either session. The staff will be reviewing the Union Financial Aid application and the F AF. Ride needed to Northwestern, U.S. (Idaho or thereabouts) after spring term. Please call Tamson Scott, 37~•9745. Cat care over Spring break needed for Snagglepuss-- vivacious angora. My place or yours. Call Sharon at 393-7222 or Box 1923 Campus Ministry Mass-- Sunday March 1st-Rev. Jay Muenane Male or Female, Roorrunate for Spring term A, ve. B-993 Call Matt at 377-8322 Irwin: Good Luck Saturday Night, you deserve it! Thurs. 29th from 7-9 in Strauss, Women Network hosts Paul Bernstein ·in anti-rape street techniques. All interested sign with Mrs. Marra. All Welcome. •• ( >; I ' . ', .,_ OONOORDIENSIS, February 26, 1981 PERSONALS Rob-Ten dollars goes a long way at the skellar. · Lead--Keep it up!!\ Remember ... there's no such thing as even-numbered games. Dan-Are you really your brother's scorekeeper? Shelly-What time is it? Are· the sweatshirts in? You can always take a forfeit. , buoy! P-U fish. Batman- Y:ou can reverse my links anytime . . . I'm AVAILable. Robin Greampuff--If I had one, would I still be a Genuine Risk? Dan: Hey Buddy-pal don't get 'W . . . . . . . . oops1e Ned, you lit-tle devil, you!!! Anon: That was the nicest valentine . . . thank· you. Stop 1by sometime, OK? Sharon. eh? . Dear T.F .S.F~-The feeling is mutual; where's the jello? the- You-know whats. - Dear A.B.-Thank you. for a 1 great weekend. Remember to be dressed formal when the butler annol!Ilces you at my place-Love B.L. , 700 Sl)uth beware stop your islandish actions or else ~ Who is that masked man? The CONCORDIENSIS would 'like· to b~ank · · the PreaHealth. Society for their generous donation Housewife-Yum•muh! Oh, 700 South may your TV be permanently glued to the MSG . NETWORK (USA will suffice) ·last tu· esday e· vening· W.N.-No fe~us can beat us, · · . • . arOund campus Women S Monday and Tuesaay,March30 researching the history of how the Forum of its financial Weekend at and 31, from 8:30 to 11:30 a.m. .the ~u~lear Reg~latory . needs. The organization has · and from 1 to 4 p.m. Students Commtsslon (NRC} mspect thus far· been unable to raise the H a m i It 0 n should report as follows: :power plants. funding that it require~. The · Last Name Repon Forum is considering a loan to The Women's Netw~rk of Sprlng. Term assjst the organization. No final Union C.ollege believes that the A-E Monday morning decision was made. women and men of Union should li'-K Monday afternoon In f:er n ships The Senior Fling Committee be informed of all pertinent lrR Tuesday morning . . has been allocated $600 by the events relating to women and s-z Tuesday afternoon Offe r:ed Student Forum· for deposits, women's issues. One of the . purposes of our Women's Week, advances, and· pr.omotional Students may report at a time The Sociology Department needs. Money received by the to be · held in mid-April, is to other than above should <:,lasses . 11 Senior Fling will be repa 1 'd to Surface f th · · f w1 · . again be offering the · many o · ese lSsues on inter ere. the For. urn. Any profits from the and around U R · t t' ·11 t b community internship· program . · o r campus. eg1s ra ron w1 · no . e activity will go to the Senior Gift The Women's Center of permitted if a student has not (SOC~ Gl) during the spring Committee. Hamilton ·college, in Clinton, settled his spring term bill and semester· N.Y., seemingly has very any other outstanding in· \Students who are accepted similar goals -to our Women~s debtedness to the College. The for . the int.ernship program Network, as exhibited by what Business Office will handle late paniclpate in a variety of they call their \Women's payment . of term bills and organizatiQns in :the local Energy Weekend.\ The resolve billing problems at tbe community as well as Women's Network here at ~Gymnaisum. throughout the Capital Union has been asked to an- Completion of and changes in District,\ according to Prof. nounce Hamilton's Women's schedules will be handled at the llene Kaplan, faculty adviser Energy Weekend, and to make Gymnasium from 8:30 a~m. to 4 for the program. available a schedule of events p.m., except for the noon hour. The organizations currently for this weekend to all those Friday, April 2 , is the last day offering internships include interested. for making schedule ad· such places as WMHT-TV and The events will be held justments. · Radio broadcasting· stations, Friday, Feo. 27, through Sun- \Pass-Fail\ requests may be the Schenectady County day, March 1. Rooms will be filed during the. first week of the Probation Department, the' available in Bristol Campus term. The deadline js also April Department of Urban Planning, c t d k Ellis Hospital, the Capital Area en er an you can rna e 3. Cornm 't H lth Pl (CH reservations by calling (315) un1 Y ea an - 853-7193. If you have any s. E.A. presents WP), Cha ilddrthen'sLaHomoe,dUnitedd questions, you can call the ay n e w, r er an Women's Center at (315) 859- . Special Program Justice Center. 4279 or Azar Kat an, (315) 859- · In addition to :regular in- 4396, Beth Baker, (315) 859-4307 The STUDENT EN· ternships, the program also or Patty Grady, (315) 853-2371. VIRONMENTAL ALLIANCE tries to arrange new internships Internship in Washington Union College is atithor~ed to nominate three persons to participate in American University's Washington Se_mester Program for the Fall Term, 1981. This program, which shoUld not be confused with Union's own. Washington Term, involves coursework at American University and a part-time internship in a governmental office. Persons who will be juniors and seniors next fall are eligible to apply. An informational meeting will be held this Friday, Feb. 27 at 3: 30 p.m. in Social Sciences 115. Prospective applicants should make every effort to attend. Program Coordinator is Prof. Charles Tidmarch of the Political Science Department. Spring Term (S.E.A.) will be presenting two for the students with special very special and informative interests in the community. programs this week. In order to register for the In a gesture of protest on course, students ml!St first fill George Washington's birthday, out an application form. Those Sam Lovejoy, .a Massachusetts wh<> are accepted into the farmer, cut down a 500 ft. tower program can then o~tain course that was built in preparation for cards for registration. two nuclear power plants to be Applications will be available at constructed by Northeast an orientation meeting for all Utilities. Lovejoy then started a interester students on Friday, cainpaign against big industry, Feb. 27, at 4 p.m. in room 117, especially nuclear power Social Science building. If you companies. The exceptional cannot attend the meeting, documentary film of his ac\ contact Professor Kaplan in the tions, \Lovejoy's Nuclear War\ Sociology Department. will be shown on Monday, March 2 at 7:30p.m. in SS 016. Forum Meets · - The Student Forum at its Monday meeting discussed the status of the Student Mfairs Council (SAC) survey on. alcohol consumption. The alcohol survey is at present being held up for fur- . ther coasiderations. No distribution date has· been · established. In other business, the J;ll;ocll: U Society informed Hillel Kallah A St.~ccess This past weekend, F.:eb. 20 to .22, the Hillel Tr:i-City Council sponsored its First Annual Tri- City Kallah. The Kallah, a weekend retreat for Jewish college students held at Camp Eisner, Great Barrington, Mass., was termed a great success by the organizers and the participants. Twenty-two Union students, along with 35 students trom SUNY Albany, Albany Law, and RPI, spent a traditional Sab- bath exploring their Jewish identities and the American Jewish experience. ·Strong emphasis was placed on having the participants relate their experiences and feeling$ about Judaism in small group discussions. Attention was also focused on the many different types of American Jews: religious, cultural, Zionist, secular, etc. Union's two Hillel advisers, , Professors Stephen Berk and Seth Green berg, served as advisers for the KaUah. In his keynote address, Dr. Berk discussed the history .of the American Jewish community. Dr. Greenberg, along with three ()ther speakers, discussed his background and personal views ()n Judaism ·in a panel presentation. The ~allah was sponsored by the Hillel Tri-City Council, which . is composed of representatives from the Hillel organizations at .. Union, RPI, Russell Sage, SUNY-Albany, and Albany Law. The purpose of the CoWlcil is to strengthen the ties between tbe groups at the different campuses. Registration Spring Term- classes will begin at 8:30 a.m. on Monday, March 30. Student schedules will be distributed to college mailboxes prior to the begin- ning of classes. Students who do not receive a copy of their class schedule will be able to secure a copy at the A:lumni Gymnasium at 8 a.m. on the first day of classes. S.E.A. will also be sponsoring a lecture by Matthew Chachare entitled \Nuclear Power and Civil Liberties; LILCO's Assault on .First Amendment Rights\ on Wednesday, March 4 at 9:00p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Chachare was the legal coor· dinat()r for the Shoreham Defense Committee, an organization which was formed in protest to the building of the Shoreham Nuclear Power plant by the Long. Island Lightirig Company (LILCO). LILCO has been involved in the alleged harassment, in· timidation, and efforts to collect damages of 2 million dollars from all · participants in demonstrations held at the Shoreham site. An alleged threat has been posed by LILCO to all those who wish to exercise their First Amendment rights by expressing unpopular· or controv~rsial opinions. Currently; Chachare is $1udent :Environmental Alliance presents· · 1 'Loveioy's ·Nuclear War'' Formal registration and validation of I.D. cards will take 'place in the G~asium on ' Monday, March 2, 7:30 p.m .. ss 016 1 and 11 Nuclear Power and Ci!il Libertiec; LILCO's Assault on First Amendment Rights\ a lecture by Matt Chachare of the Shoreham Defense Committee .. Wednesclay, .March 4, 9:00 p.m. Strauss IJJJJnge - s W .. I - Thi Fred will I theM ski c< other J:I, t comp will t Divisi the n: Thi achie Sarge about shoul~ with seasc maint of the in Di year. in tl early petiti adapt stren1 Aver) McLa The event do mil Donn; travel

to ee to ift a eat ab· as his the ity. his nel by of e of the the OONOORDIENSIS, February S6JI 1981 Page 11 sports Will Ski Aga:inst Div. 1: ·come to the Races! Two Skiers on ·AI.I-Star Team .... ByiNGEMAR This weekend, Feb~ 26 and 27, Fred Thimm and Tom Sargent will be representing Union at the Middlebury Carnival alpine ski competition. Along with six other ski racers from Division I:I, the two Union seniors comprise an All-star Team that will be skiing against the best Division t college ski teams in the nation. This is a tremendous . achievement. Thimm and Sargent have much -to be proud about. All of Union's ski racers should be extremely satisfied with their. performance this season. The Alpine skiers maintained their 'position as one of the top three ranking teams in Division II throughollt the year. Realizing their weakness in the cross-country events (:' early on in winter's com- Q.l petition, the Nordic sq11ad ~ adapted immediately, gaining 1:: strength from newcomers Kent ~ Avery, Mark Arienti, and Rod >- McLrun. ~ The women's cross-country .E events were completely .§_ skiers in order to realize how dedicateQ they are to success. Their esprit de corps ,is in- spiring. Even at the ski meets the Union team's enthusiasm stands out. This seems to be the essence of a truly team sport. The results of each individual are combined to contribute to the overall standings of the team. It becomes obvious after having observed the members of the Union Ski Team in action for an entire season that they have certainly learned the element of team spirit and comraderie that it takes to win. at CHI PS'I LODGE Friday II 'feb .• 27th Post Time 9:30 Tickets Available $1.00 from any Lodger $2-door dominated, by Colleen and Donna Morris. One has only to travel to a meet with the Union Fred Thimm negotiates giant slalom .MBA Northeastern University Make it your business . . .. to find out what Northeastern's Graduate School of Business Administration can offer as you face your futur~. A variety of program alternatives allow flexibility in pursuit of the MBA degree and encourage practical work experience. Management Intern Program An intensive twenty-one-month graduate cooperative education program integrates fifteep months of classroom studies with six months-of paid professional work experience. MBA intern students alternate periods of 'full-time course work with a period of full-time employment in business, iqdustry, or government. Full-time Program A two-year program with assistantship oppor- tunities involves continuous study by attending classes primarily during the day. A limited number of assistantships offering tuition remis- sion with a possible stipend are available. Assistantships are based on both skill and academic qualifications and offer valuable ad- ministrati-ve or teaching experience. Deadlines Assistantships: March 15 Full-time and Intern programs: April 1 ----·---------------- For more information c;~ll 617-437-2719 or write: M Graduate School of Business Administration Northeastern University 360 Huntington Aventte Bosto_n, Massachusetts 02115 Name _____________________ ~-------- Street -------------------------------- City ________ State ___ ZIP Code __ _ College ------~----_)Class ___ __ SPORTS WRITERS NEEDED . CONTACT BILL AT 382-9029 MacFaddin. Qualifies for NCAA Sophomore Doug MacFaddin qualified for a 'wild card' berth in the 150-pound weight Class of the NCAA Wrestling Meet to be held at John Carroll University in Cleveland, OH, this weekend, Feb. 27 and 28. MacFaddin opened last weekend's NCAA Qualifying Meet, held at TreQton State College, by dropping a 9-6 decision to Ed Reise of Kean College. Second-round com- petition saw MacFaddin win an injury forfeit before pinning Mike Parinelli of Glassboro in the second period of the third round. MacFaddin earned his berth in the NCAA Meet with a 7-6 decision over Reise in ·the consolation finals. Union had sent three other sophomores to last week's meet, Gary Cohen, AI Kercado and Dennis Dombrowski. Kercado and Cohen did not successful careers Don't Just Happen At the Institute for Paralegal Training we have prepared over 4,000 college graduates for careers in law, business and finance. After just three months of intensive training, we will place yotJ in a stimulating and challenging position that offers professional growth and expanding career opportunities. As a Legal Assistant you will do work traditionally performed by attorneys and other professionals in law firms, corporations, banks, government agencies and insurance companies. Furthermore, you-will earn gcaduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all course work completed at The Institute. We are regarded as the nation's finest and most prestig- ious program for training legal specialists for law firms, business and finance. But, as important as our academic quality is our placement result. The Institute's placement service will find you a job in the city ofyour choice .If not, you will be eligible for a substantial tuition refuntl. If you are a senior in high academic standing and looking for the most practical way to begin your career, contact your Placement Office for an interview with our representative. Wewillvisityourcampuson: APRIL 7, 1981 The Institute for Paralegai Training (Operated by Para-Legal, Inc.) Approved by The American Bar Association Programs Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law: win a match while DDmbrowski suffered a 26-9 opening defeat to Tom Martucci of Trenton State before pinning Erwin· LQw of Brooklyn College and John Ryan of Glassboro State in the second and third rounds respectively. However, Dombrowski was pinned in the consolation finals by Paul Lupano of Hunter to finish in fourth place and out of the NCAA meeet . Community Internships Spring Semes~ter Schenectady Co~:~nty Probation Dept. WMHT-TV & Radio Dept. of Urban Planning Community Health Plan · Law, Order and Justice Center United Way and others mt;Jeting: 27, 4:00 Social Orientation Friday, Feb. p.m. SS 117 Science Bvi I ding or Contact Prof. Ka pi an, Sociology Department

Page 12 OONOORDIENSIS, FebnuJ,ry $6, 1981 - . - - . . sports Win 9 out of past 11:. Hoopers Remain 'Hot'· The Union basketball team remained in strong contention for an ECAC post season tournament bid, as they disposed of Division III op- . ponents Binghamton (55-54) and Babson (.7 4-59) in the next-to- last week of the regular season. With only one game remaining against Ivy League foe Yale, the Dutehmen appear to have a goad chance of receiving their .first ECAC bid, since the 1975-76 season. A strong showing against Yale should clinch the post season bid for the 13-10 Dutchmen. resemblance to two tired heavyweights struggling through the final rounds of a fight Which nobody really cared about to start with. Union managed to outlast Binghamton in the final minutes, largely through the clutch (as usual) foul shooting of Joe Clinton. Clinton hit four foul shots down the stretch which put the Colonials down and out for the count. Scoring honors once again went to all-time school scoring leader Joe Gardany, who finished the game with 21 points. Joe Clinton chipped in with 16 points and eight assists, while John Montanile con- tributed 11 rebounds. points .on the way to a season high 13-point performance and paced Union to a 34-30 halftime lead. The second half was all Union's, as Krum, Cardany, and Clinton sparked the Dut- chmen to a 56-40 lead. ·Union maintained this margin throughout the remainder of the game. Cardany led all scorers with 23 points and was backed lil up by Clinton with 15 and Krum E with 13. . j Union's hopes of an ECAC bid cv will be enhanced if Albany ii; State, Potsdam State and St. <li Lawrence all get a NCAA bid, >- which is very possible. Other ~ teams in contention for the 1i ECAC tournament are -a Hamilton, Rochester, Alfred and RIT. John Jarosak threads needle Riding a hot streak which has seen the team win nine of its last 11 games, Union took on the Colonials of Binghamton on Wednesday and came away with a less than impressive one- point victory. After racing off to a quick 10-point lead at 12-2, Union seemed content to coast the rest of the game. However, as the Dutchmen settled into a lackadaisical style of play, the less talented but more intense Colonials scrapped and clawed their way to a 31-30 halftime lead. On Friday, Union traveled to Boston to play the Beavers of Babson and returned with a 15 point victory. In sharp contrast to the sluggish play of two nights before, the Dutchmen played a strong and smart game, displaying tenacious defense and shooting .a blistering 65 percent from the floor (28-43). Senior John Krum scored the game's first five Hockey Splits Pair The second half showed a In C.D. Tournament: The Union College Skating Dutchmen suffered a 6-5 loss to Potsdam State last Tuesday, Women Win Consolation .. All-Tournament Team selection Sheila O'Donnell scored all six of Union's points in overtime to give the Dut- chwomen a thrilling 57-54 victory over RPI in the con- solation game of the Second Annual Capital District Women's Basketball Tour- nament last Saturday night at Memorial Field House. Jackie Tario had sent the game into the extra session when she grabbed an offensive rebound and scored a layup with two seconds remaining in regulation to give Union a 51-51 tie. O'Donnell, the only senior on this year's squad, then scored the game's next six points to give the Dutcbmen third place in the event. Union, which finished second to St. Rose a year ago at Albany's University Gym, dropped a 64-61 -opening-round decision to the Great Danes on Friday. Freshman Kay Lynch led the Dutchwomen with 18 points while Carol Wrenn added 15 and O'Donnell 12. The College of St. Rose won its second consecutive title with victories over RPI, 63-51, and Albany State, 73-68. Union closed its season Monday with a 78-63 loss to Division 1I Hartwick. O'D&nneU ended her brilliant basketball career with 23 points, while Lynch, who appears to be a major factor in Union's offense for the next three years, added 18 points. The Dutchwomen finish with a record of 7-9. The future looks very op- timistic for the Union College Dutchwomen as many key players will be returning for the '81-'82 season. Athlete of the Wee~ This week, the Concordenesis sports staff has selected co- winners of the Miller Athlete of the Week Award. Joe Caruso and Don Beall have been chosen for their play in the victory over North Adams. The pair com- bined for a total of seven points, as Union played the role of Spoiler last Thursday. Joe Caruso's hat trick and assist were instrumental in the vic- tory, as was Donny \Bmnbles\ Beall's sterling play (2 goals) that has made him the leading goal scorer on the team. Caruso potted two assists in Tuesday ·night's heartbreak 6-5 loss to Potsdam. Donny Beall is from Joe Caruso Needham, Mass., where he played both hockey and lacrosse. His senior year his hockey team went to the semifinals at the Massachusetts hockey tournament. He then attended prep school hockey power New Hampton for a post- graduate year. While at New Hampton, he played with his present line mate Tod Fobare. Donny is a scphomore economics major. He is also a member of Chi Psi Fraternity. Don \Bumbles\ Beall has had an exceptional year leading the team in goals scored and finishing second to his linemaster Tod in. total points. Freshman standout Joe Caruso tallied his second hat trick of the year and added a total of six points to his yearly total. Joe is from Huntington, N.Y. He attended Northwood Prep School in Lake Placid, N.Y., where he played hockey. Joe is intending to major in either political science or economics. Joe had an exceptional year for a freshman and is the fourth leading scorer on the team. Beall and Caruso have both been important parts at the Skating Dutchmen and will be instrwnental in the resurgence at the Union hockey team next year. Don Beall but rebounded on Thursday to defeat North Adams State 9-6, On Tuesday the Dutchmen played host to Potsdam and suffered an unexpected and dejecting 6•5 defeat. Union played below its capabilities throughout the contest; and that, coupled with poor refereeing, resulted in the loss. There were numerous questionable calls in the penalty marred contest which appeared to take some of the fire away from the Dutchmen. Dave Belinski picked up a pair ·Of goals, while Bill Mason, Jim Josephson and Mark Bon picked up singles. Al DiUbero, Joe CarU\so and Rob Antonucci all picked up a pair of assists in the losing effort. Last Thursday evening, the Dutclunen travelled to North Adams State, where they posted a 9-6 victory. Led by the strong performances of Joe Caruso (3 goals), Tad Fobare (2 goals) and Don Beall (2 goals), the Dutchmen dominated the entire game with a consistent of- fensive effort. Also picking up goals for Union were Bill Mason, and Len McAllister. Jim . Josephson, Ben May:ard, Tod Fobare and Brian Shea all played strong playmaking roles, each picking up a pair of assists. The win boosted Union's record to a dlsmal 6-20-l in what has been a disap- pointing season for the Dut- chmen. Union has been plagued by injuries throughout the season, Scott Fitzgerald (separ.ated shoulder), Brad Nicholson (broken hand), Kyle Woodman (shoulder), along with numerous other minor injuries. Despite the dismal record, there have been many bright spots on the team this year and they. are lCJoking forward to a competitive schedule next year. In addition Bill Mason was awarded the Ned Dukehart Award last Tuesday, Feb.17, in , brief ceremonies prior to the Skating Dutchmen's final home hockey game of the 198()-81 season. The award, which was originated three years ago, is presented to tbe hockey player with the highest grade point average. Mason, a 5'10, 180-pound centerfrom Caledon, Ont., is an economics major. A three-year start~r for the Skating Dut· chinen., Mason has a career scoring mark of 82 points ( 40 goals and 42 assists). Last season. as a junior, Mason led the teaxn with 21 goals, 17 assists and 3.8 points. Following the presentation, Masonscored Union's first goal in a 6.:5 loss to Potsdam. State Swim Meet Union will be represented in the 16-team Upper New York State Swim Meet to be held at Colgate this weekend. Competing for the Dutchmen on Thursday in the 2 p.m. trials will be Andy Berquist and Harry Walkoff in the 500 freestyle, Chris Meyer in the 200 IM and the 400 medley relay team of Meyer, Chris Howd, Kyle Cotugno and Walkoff. Finals for the events will be held Thursday night from 8 to 10:30. On Friday at noon, trials will be held for the 200 freestyle (Berquist, Ron Newbold and Walkoff), the 100 butterfly (Howd and Cotugno), the 100 backstroke (Steve Jacobs and Meyer), the 100 breaststroke (Howd) and the 800 freestyle team cf Walkoff, Meyer, Cotugno and . Newbold. Finals willbeheldFridaynightat 7:30. On Saturday at noon, trials will be held for the 1,650 freestyle (Berquist), the 100 freestyle (Walkoff, Newbold, Howd and Cotugno), the 200 backstroke.(Jacobs and Meyer) the 2()0 butterfly (Cotugno) and the 4:()0 fi·eestyle relay team of Meyer, W alkoff, Cotugno and Howd. Finals will be held on Saturday night at 6:30. The swim team finished its regular season last week with a 3-7 records. BLOCK \U\ Sponsors Roller Skating at Big N Plaza Tonight

