that and him the ding Beall both year has goals him Kip Ben and to the went to 5- in 11 joth 3 the in 23 e. 0 .... 0 ..1: a. 1- \ • 1877 CXI, No. 13 York February 4, 1982 10 Arrested After ViOlence By PAUL GROSSMAN Editor-in-Chief officers, after getting injured in the melee, called the Schenectady Police Depart- ment (SPD') .for assistance in breaking up the fights and dispersing the crowd. SPD mission to connect BLAS in any way to Saturdayntght's party.\ Asare misled college officials when he filled out the Facility Request Form necessary to secure Old Chapel for the party. Asare named BLAS as the sponsor of the party and in- licensing, the food service employee made no attempt to close the bar and continued to serve the beer and punch. Many of the students in at- tendance at the party noticed that there were minors being served liquor, a fact supported ~& about trouble up near the 'Skellar,\ said Seth Men- delowitz of Fiji, ''we decided to close our taps and start getting people out.\ S.P.D. Arrives at Scene: 10 Arrested Last Saturday night, officers of the Schenectady Police Department arrived on the Union College Campus in order to bring an end to the violence that had occurred earlier that evening. , Fo·r the past week, the Security Department, the Dean of Students, and Concordiensis have ,been attempting to piece together an accurate account of what transpired this past · responded with 4 squad cars, a sargeant's car, a paddy wagon, a paramedic crew, and an ambulance crew. In total, there were 10-12 officers handling the situation. . -3:00 a.m. (approx.)-SPD arrest 5 Union students and 5 local men on charges of disorderly conduct. \8.L..A.S. was i,n no way responsible for the party last Saturday night.\ When the Schenectady police arrived on campus, most of the fighting had already ended. The main combatants, Union students and off-campus blacks, had dispersed when the police arrived leaving only ·arguing spectators and innocent bystanders who were simply curious as to what was going on. At that time also, Fiji and SDT were closing their parties thereby increasing the number of people outside in the same general vicinity. SPD took action to disperse the crowd, requesting that all persons in the area leave the scene. eluded the BLAS account number in lieu of a monetary deposit for the event. Falsifies Form Gregory Grant (I.) and Luis Diaz-Perez, Co-Chairmen of the Black and Latin Alliance of Students. They say that B.L.A.S. ' w:as not responsible for the party in Old Chapel Saturday n1ght, nor for the violence which stemmed from the party. Asare noted on the form that the party would be open to only the college community, avoiding mention of the fact that there would be many non- Union people in attendance, including members of other BLAS organizations from neighboring colleges, Asare also indicated that the event would be advertised both on and Jff campus, apparently in contradiction to his indication of the party being limited to the college commtinity onlY. On the form, Asare was asked to indicate the admission charge for the event. He noted that there would be a $2 fee for -students with an ID, but made only an unintelligible scrawl where he was asked to indicate an admission price for the public. weekend. Rumors have been proliferating steadily, making it even more difficult to uncover the truth. Each of the in- vestigations involved discussions with no less than twenty seperate individuals, all with their own accounts of exactly what transpired that particular evening. A chronology of events has been determined as follows: --1:30 a.m. (approx.)--The student in charge of the Rathskellar decided to begin closing up for the night because of slow business. 'Skellar doors remained open,. however, to allow people attending neigh- boring parties to use the restroom facilities. --2:30 a.m. (approx.)-- Friction began between some black males in the 'Skellar involving use of the restroom. They moved upstairs and outside in front of Stoller Hall. Steve Killeen, a brother at the Psi Upsilon fraternity, left the party at Sigma Delta Tau, and encountered people outside the 'Skellar. Words were ex- change(} and Killeen reported that one of the blacks outside the 'Skellar urinated on him. Fighting began between Killeen and two of the black males. -2:32 a.m.-Calls arrived at Security base in quick suc- cession, alerting security to the fight in progress. By this time,· Peter Zafian, Dave Ferguson and other members of Killeen's fraternity became involved in the fighting whf:le heading towards the party at Phi Gamma Delta. By the time Union Security arrived, there Were four seperate fights oc- curring at the same time and this proved to be too much for the unarmed security officers to control. -2:47 a.m.-Union security Asare Responsible Thomas Asare, a Union student in his fifth year worlting on his master's degree, hosted the party in Old Chapel that most believe was sponsored by the Black and Latin Alliance of Students (BLAS). Two weeks a:go, Asare asked BLAS officials if he could use the BLAS name to rent the Old Chapel. \We told him that we didn't want him to do it, but he didn't listen to us,\ said Luis Diaz-Perez, · co- chairman of BLAS. Acting Dean of Students, Don Spring, said that, \Greg Grant (also co- chairman of BLAS) informed me that he would testify before the Conduct Committee that Asare never received per- Hard Liquor Sold The party was to include beer and non-alcoholic punch provided by the college Food Service who believed that they were providing the beverages to a BLAS party, not the party of a single individual. Early in the evening, a Food Service em· ployee working at the party noticed that a cash bar had been set up in the corner of the room. Unaware of the illegality of a cash bar without proper Committee Openin~s Applications for the following committees are now available in the Student Activities Office. Completed appl.ications must be returned to that office no later than Feb. 10. Sub-Committee on Hazing--2 Vacancies This committee investigates the definiti.on of the law an~ specific cases of hazing on-campus. Sub-Council on Our Governance--4 Vacancies The council will study the structure of Union's Governance system, by-laws and its ef. fectiveness. Chairman: Brian Ma.rks. Sub-Counc;il on Pa ra-Academics--4 Vacancies . Includes career pi ann ing and placement as well as academic clubs. Chairwoman: Kim Nogay. Sub-Council on Extracurricular Activities--4 Vacancies The council will study all extracurricular activities existing at the ·present time and changes if necessary for the future. Chair- woman: Ilene Landress. Sub-Council on Fraternities-Sororities--1 Vacancy for an Independent The council will study all aspects of the Greek System and its effects. -Grant & Dioz-Perez by noting the arrest of two 16 year-olds who had been at the party that night. Other Parties Not Involved When the trouble began, the Greek houses sponsoring parties that night, Sigma Delta Tau and Phi Gamma Delta, began to bring their parties to a close. \As soon as we heard Continued on page 2 Costs Up Again .By JOEY BECKERMAN Staff On January 13, the College Board of Trustees met and approved the budget for the next school year. The total cost of attending Union will increase 15.1 percent to $9900, as com- pared to this year's figure of $8600. John R. Hauser, Vice President for Finance and Administration, explained that the increases will be in three areas. TuitiQn will go up $1000 (from $6300 to $7300) while room and board will increase $150. The last two figures are based upon tlie most common costs for room and board. Hauser went on to point out that the total budget for 1982-1983, which will incorporate the above men· tioned prices, will be approved in April. In order to understand the increased costs for the next year, one must consider some of the major expenses the college encounters. Union's biggest increased expense is employee compensation, that is, in- creased wages and salaries. The average Union employee can expect a pay increase of 10 or 11 percent. Hauser com- mented that \we are not adding people,\ but \the ones we have must be taken care of\. The college also expects to ex- perience a six to seven percent increase in operating expenses. This includes special allocations for new equipment in the Science and Engineering departments as well as the increased expenses the Admissions Office is en- countering while traveling during recruitment. One ;;~:Juld not be misled into thinking that the increase is simply a means for the college to make money. Approximately 20 percent of the increase will go towards the school's financial aid fund and the food service. The service, a break-even operation, must raise the cost of the meal plans to offset rising food prices. The drawing up of the new budget is a complex process. After President Morris and the administrati()n cabinet develop a balanced budget, the Planning and Priorities Committee, which is composed of students, faculty, staff and ad- ministration, examines the proposed budget. This com- mittee asks questions and makes adjustments and recommendations. Thus, the final budget 1eflects the work of a representative group. Hauser emphasized that the creation of the budget is not a closed door decision. Additionally, since 75 percent of the college's operating expenses come from tuition, room and board, it is important to have student input when creating the budget. In summation, Hauser pointed out that Union does consult with other comparable colleges. Although Union is one of the first schools to announce an increase for next year, it will not be out of line with the in- creases made by other small private quality institutions . lNSID-E _::-•li.,,iii' Revi:e'\\ ;p .• 7 :•~eti~r& .:R~ 8,;.9 . ,, -· ' . : ~-- '\ ''P· ·· · ·· ·· .,,, '··· .. ·.; , .... · .. ; :H ··s.. · · · · .. · · 12·· · ·1· 3 • VA:tl\IU'I,S;., tr1p p. · .· .. · · .. ~ l4~l6 .: . ' ·- .~~ \·; ::· -- . : .. ':.: .. :* ...

Page 2 OONGORDIENSIS, February 4,,1982 - .. . BLAS States, .. We're Not Responsible\ Continued from page ,1 It was at this time that the arrests were made. Five of · those arrested were blacks from the community, while the other five arrested were white Union students. The arrests U brothers involved in the main confrontation, had to be hospitalized as a result of in- juries received in the fight. Peter Zafian and Steve Killeen were also badly injured during \The instigators of this unfortunate event were uninvited nonstudents from off the Union College campus.\ made were distinctly separate from any of the violence that had occurred earlier, in fact none of the Union College students . that were arrested were involved in assault charges, but ratber were charged with disorderly con- duct. The penal code describes disorderly conduct as: wheg a person, with intent to cause public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm . . . \he congregates with other persons in a public place and refuses to comply with the lawful order of the police to disperse . . . \ -President Mo~ris student reportedly had a nightstick placed up against the back of his head. Security Director Wood was assured, however, by the Chief of SPD that there was no improper use of force to his knowledge througheut the entire incident. Incident At North Shortly after the fight, an RA from North Dorm called security te inform them that there was a black man with a switchblade roaming the halls. Security, taking advantage of SPD's presence on campus, went over to investigate the situation but found nothing. It was approximately three in the morning when everything was finally cleared up, except for the students that were arrested. Ali of the Union students were able to come up with bail money, set at $100 for each of them. None of the others that were arrested were able to come up with bail money and ~l_)ent the night in jail. At least two of the students that were arrested claimed that they were merely leaving the party at Fiji when they were thrown into the paddy wagon by police. \Schenectady police saved a riotous situation.\ Concordy Sports Editor Arrested One of the students that was arrested was Drew Hurley, a Sports Editor for Concordiensis. Hurley left his room at Chi Psi to investigate the situation for the newspaper. When asked to , leave by Schenectady police, he identified himself as a member of the press. Hurley, like many · of the people at the scene, said, \I wasn't bothering anybody or anything, I wasn't acting rudely. I just wanted to see what was going on.\ Ferguson Hospitalized Dave Ferguson, one of the Psi -Director of Security, Cliff Wood the incident. The Union Security officers responding to the initial call reported that they were \punched kicked and abused\ during the incident, a statement which prompted Director of Security Cliff Wood to request that protective weapons be issued to security officers so that they could have some means of protecting themselves in similar situations. S.P .D. Uses For~e Some students, particularly those who were arrested, felt that the SPD was too violent in dealing with students. Members of SDT were unhappy at the way SPD officers were yelling at people in their house. One 5 Plead Not Guilty, Others Await Sentencing Of the 10 who were arrested, four of the non-Union men pleaded guilty, with one of the Union students pleading guilty as well. They a wait sentencing. The four other Union students pleaded not guilty as did one of the non-Union individuals. Their trial date is set for February 8. The charge of disorderly conduct is a violation, punishable in cases like this normally by a $25 and some sort of community work. The District Attorney can move to dismiss charges if desired, or he can choose to prosecute the cases. en MAXIMUS MAXIMUS MAXIMUS MAXIMUS MAXIMUS ~ .::» :e ,. Two UNION COLLEGE STUDENTS are needed to act as >< - >< - 3: <C COORDINATORS FOR THE MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS :e c SOCIETY'S YOUTH PROGRAM at Union College. They \' en ~ :::» will also act as REPRESENTATIVES TO THE MULTIPLE :e ,. - SCLEROSIS SOCIETY'S CAPITOL DISTRICT YOUTH >< >< - 3: C( PROGRAM which will include student representatives from :i c:: en en all schools in the Capitol Dis·trict. 3: ::» :e If you are interested, please oontact 3> >< - )( - 3: <C MIKE ANDOLINA ~ c en ., by calling x6061 or by stopping by 3: :l ::e STUDENT AFFAIRS. ,. >< >< - ~ .. :e SnWIXYW SnWIXYW SnWIXYW SnWIXYW SnWIXYW ~ Responses to tbe Incident Rumors and gossip con- cerning what actually took place I·ast Saturday night have been breeding rapidly We do ex:]Ject, however, that everyone, ~tudents and non- students alike, will observe common rules of courtesy. I have as:ked Acting Dean ·of Students Do11 Spring to give me I ''The people who are responsible should be nade to answer for their actions.\ · throughout the campus com• munity. Already members of BLAS have been receiving threatening telephone calls. Members of Fiji and SDT have voiced their displeasure with their treatment in , the Schenectady Gazette this past Monday which implied that the incident involved a con- frontation between the two greek houses ~:~nd was at- tributed to alcohol. Administration Response President Morris responded to Saturday's incident with the following: \I think the point we must keep in mind is that the instigators of this unfortunate event were uninvited, non- students from off the Union College campus. Union has long been proud of its fine relations wrth the surrounding community and we will continue to encourage members of the community to participate in and attend ap- propriate campus events. -Dean Spring a full report on the weekend~s events. If any Union students are found :to have violated •OUr student code, appropriate disciplinary action will be taken.'' Dean Spxing., :who has been in . close con~ct with both Security and Concordiensis, has been the administrator closest to the situation. '1he Dean said, \There are many aspects to the whole .incident. I think that it is important 'that BLAS denied having anything to do with the party or witll the fighting that occurred. I am also un- comfortable with the fact that the police didn't bother with the people who were fighting, in. stead they arrested what I believe were simply spectators. While I cannot to any degree condone any ~tudent's failure to comply· with the Schenectady Police, I do feel that they have gone through .a let, and that tbe people wllo are responsible should be made to answer for their actions.\ I Club Ban Lifted I By SUE BLOOMBERG Staff The insurance question for clubs at Union has finally come to a close. A new poUcy that will remove liability from th.e Student Forum members is now being instated. The problem of insurance coverage and liability arose when the Student Forum realized that many potentially dangerous clubs were not covered by the blanket Union College policy. This left the individual members of the Forum liable for the actions of club members. As a result, a ban was ·placed on all clubs that were thought to - be potentially dangerous by the Forum. .After much con- sultation wit11 Union lawyers and the Administration, a solution, acc()rding to Weldon Turner, President of Student Forum, was JlrOposed. The soll!ti()n was twofold. First, an agreem~nt must be signed by clubmembers stating that prior to participating in club activities, each student agrees to be covered under a home polic:y. Second, the students wuuld be put under the blanket coverage of Union. Presently, students are still in the process of signing the agreements, which will eliminate this ban on all ac- tivities.

Page 2 OONCORDlENSIS, February 4, 1982 BLAS States, \We're Not Responsible\ Continued from page I It was at this time that the arrests were made. Five of · those arrested were blacks from the community, while the other five arrested were white Union students. The arrests U brothers involved in the JUain confrontation, had to be hospitalized as a result of in- juries received in the fight. Peter Zafian and Steve Killeen were also badly injured during \The instigators of this unfortunate event were uninvited nonstudents from off the Union College campus.\ made were distinctlY separate from any of the violence that had occurred earlier, in fact none of the Union College students . that were arrested were involved in assault charges, but rather were charged with disorderly con- duct. The penal code describes disorderly conduct as: when a person, with intent to cause public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm . . . \he congregates with other persons in a public place and refuses to comply with the lawful order of the police to disperse . . . \ -President Morris student reportedly had a nightstick placed up against the back of his head. Security Director Weod was assured, however, by the Chief of SPD that there was no improper use of force to his knowledge throughout the entire incident. Incident At North Shortly after the fight, an RA from North Dorm called security to inform them that there was a black man with a switchblade roaming the halls. Security, taking advantage of SPD's presence on campus, went over to investigate the situation but found nothing. It was approximately three in the morniAg when everything was finally cleared up, except for the students that were arrested. AU of the Unian students were able to come up with bail money, set at $100 for each of them. None of the others that were arrested were able to come up with bail money and .$(>ent the night in jail. At least two of the students that were arrested claimed that they were merely leaving the party at Fiji when they were thrown into the paddy wagon by police. \Schenectady police saved a riotous situation.\ Concordy Sports Editor Arrested One of the students that was arrested was Drew Hurley, a Sports Editor for Concordiensis. Hurley left his room at Chi Psi to investigate the situation for the newspaper. When asked to . leave by Schenectady police, he identified himself as a member of the press. Hurley, like many of the people at the scene, said, \I wasn't bothering anybody or anything, I wasn't acting rudely. I just wanted to see what was going on.\ Ferguson Hospitalized Dave Ferguson, one of the Psi -Director of Security, Cliff Wood the incident. The Union Security officers responding to the initial call reported that they were \punched kicked and abused\ during the incident, a statement which prompted Director of Security Cliff Wood to request that protective weapons be issued to security officers so that they could have some means of protecting themselves in similar situations. S.P .D. Uses Force Some students, particularly those who were arrested, felt that the SPD was too violent in dealing with students. Members of SDT were unhappy at the way SPD officers were yelling at people in their house. One 5 Plead Not Guilty, Others Await Sentencing Of the 10 who were arrested, four of the non-Union men pleaded guilty, with one of the Union students pleading guilty as well. They await sentencing. The four other Union students pleaded not guilty as did one of the non-Union individuals. Their trial date is set for February 8. The charge of disorderly conduct is a violation, punishable in cases like this normally by a $25 and some sort of community work. The District Attorney can move to dismiss charges if desired, or he can choose to prosecute the cases. ., MAXIMUS MAXIMUS MAXIMUS MAXIMUS MAXIMUS ~ ::> ~ ,.. Two UNION COLLEGE STUDENTS are needed to act as >< - >< - ~ c( COORDINATORS FOR THE MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS ~ c SOCIETY'S YOUTH PROGRAM at Union College. They (It (I) 3: :J will also act as REPRESENTATIVES TO THE MULTIPLE ::E J> SCLEROSIS SOCIETY'S CAPITOL DISTRICT YOUTH >< - >< - s: <t PROGRAM which will include student representatives from :e c:: en ., all schools in the Capitol Dis·trict. ~ :l ,.. :e If you are interested, please contact >< - >< - ~ f( MIKE ANDOLINA c :e en ~ by calling x6061 or by stopping by ~ :l ,. ~ STUDENT AFFAIRS. >< - >< - ~ 4: SnWIXYW SnWIXYW SnWIXlfW SnWIXYW SnWIXYW ~ :e Responses to the Incident Rumers and gossip con- cerning what actually took place last Saturday night have been breeding rapidly We do expect, however, that everyone, students and non- students alike, will observe common rules of caurtesy. I have asked Acting Dean of Students Don Spring to give me I \The peeple whe are respoRsible should be made to answer for their actiens,\ throughout the campus com- munity- Already members of BLAS have been receiving threatening telephone calls. Members of Fiji and SDT have voiced their displeasure with their treatment in the Schenectady Gazette this past Monday which implied that the incident involved a con- frontation between the two greek houses and was at- tributed to alcohol. Administration Response President Morris responded to Saturday's incident with the following.: \I think the point we must keep in mind is that the instigators of this unfortunate event were uninvited, non- students from off the Union College campus. Union has long been proud of its fine relations wrth the surrounding community and we will continue to encourage members of the community to participate in and attend ap- propriate campus events. -Dean Spr.ing a full report an the weekend's events. If any Union students are found to have violated our student code, appropriate disciplinary action will be taken.\ Dean Spring, who has been in close contact with both Security and Concordiensis, has been the administrator closest to the situation. The Dean said, ''There are many aspects to the whole incident. I think that it is important that BLAS denied having anything to do with the party or with the fighting that occurred. I am also un- comfortable with the fact that the police didn't bother with the people who were fighting, in~ stead they arrested what I believe were simply spectators. While I cannot to any degree condone any student's failure to comply with the Schenectady Police, I do feel that they have gone through a lot, and that t)le people who are responsible should be made to answer for their actions.\ / Club Ban Lifted I Ey SUE BLOOMBERG Staff The insurance question for clubs at Union has finally come to a close. A new policy that will remove liability from the Student Forum members is now being instated. The problem of insurance coverage and liability arose when the Student Forum realized tb.at many potentially dangerous clubs were not covered by the blanket Union College policy. This left the individual members of the Forum liable for the actions of club members . As a L'esult, a ban was placed on all clubs that were thought to · be potentially dangerous by the Forum. After much con- sultation with Union lawyers and the Administration, a solution, according to Weldon Turner, President of Student Forum, was proposed. The solution was twofold. First, an agreement must be signed by club members stating that prior to participating in club activities, each student agrees to be covered under a home policy. Second, the students would be put under the blanket coverage of Union. Presently, students are still in the process of signing the agreements, which will eliminate this ban on all ac- tivities. WlNTIR CARNIVA,J,; RESULTS submitted by Gary ChacHck The following: i·s a prize list tor the booth compe'tith:;n winrters of fhis y$0r(s Winter carnival . submitted f:)y Gary Chadick\ Vice President of · ·

, that non- serve r • an ·of re me I g ~nd's Ients I ,our ~iate l be en in. llrity rtthe the ;aid, >the at it mied 1 the that un· that 1 the , in\ lt I tors. gree ~e to tady 1ave ;t)le ;ible · for n the ~on­ ~ers ' a ldon lent 'old. be ting ~in lent !r a the the llin the will ac- ROTC Marches Back :By LIESEL GOLDEN Staff Sixteen Union students are presently enrolled in the Air Force Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC), Detachment 550, at RPl. Most of these cadets have received Air Force ROTC scholarships. This scholarship pays the cadet•s· tuition, lab fees and books, as well as giving the cadet a $100 per month stipend. Scholarships range from one to four years and are · usually granted in the fields of math and science. Students who join ROTC are eligible to compete for one of these scholarships. ROTC Involves a minimum of a 21h hour commitment per week for freshmen and sophomores, and a 4¥.! hour per week com- mitment for juniors and seniors. One and a half hours of this time is spent in Leadership lab each Tuesday at RPI. Activities in leadership lab include guest speakers, drilling, inspection, and familiarization of military customs and courtesies. The other time is spent 1n military classes learning about the Air Force, its purpose and function. FIJI to Host This weekend, February 5 to 7, the Chi Chapter of Phi Gamma Delta will host a convention 'for· 17 Northeastern college and university chapters. Designed as a leadership training session, more than 125 brothers and pledges of Phi Gamma Delta will attend lectures and seminars con• cerning the duties of officers, the purpose and responsibilities of the fraternity, the chapters• relationships with their respective institutions, and other related topics. Assistant Dean of Students Michael Andolina will give a talk on the importance of fraternities and their effect on the collegiate atmosphere. ' Participating schools include the University of Maine, MIT, the University of Vermont, University of Rhode Island, WPI, Columbia, New York University, Rutgers, Cornell, Colgate, Syracuse University, the University of T()ronto, Johns Hopkins University, Lafayette· College, Lehigh, and the University of Pennsylvania. More On AFS In reference to last week's article on the· A.F .s. con- ference, Assistant Dean of Students Mike Andolina com- mentedon a possible incident at Tri-Delta. Andolina did not make specific remarks because he did not know \what hap- pened\ at the house. Maria Brucculeri, President of the sorority, remarked that the so- called inCident was \really no big deal,\.and the next day \we laughed at it.\ · The \Tri-Delta Incident\ started after the 33 high school students involved in the A.F.C. conference wre allegedly kicked out of the Pub. Since six of them were staying at Tri- Delta, they brought along their· friends. For a couple of hours, there were no problems. But at around 1: 30 a.m. students \went inbl our kitchen,\ said Brucculeri. She estimated the loss at approximately $15. Then, they turned the stereo up \pretty loud\ so that they could dance. At after 2:30, \we asked them to leave,\ Brucculeri said. \Once we said something, it was fine,'' she added. The real problem, Brucculeri thought, was that \the program should have been set up a little better. There was nothing for them to do after 11:00, and high school students aren't about to go to sleep then.'' Double 1 'Peanuts'_' this wee.k, page J2 dp People Power helps prevent birth defects Support March of Dimes THIS SPAGE CONTRIBUTED BY THE PUBL:ISHER Upon completion of the sophomore year, cadets who are in good standing qualify for a .position in the Professional Off.icers' Corps (POC). Recently our Union POC cadets have received additional promotions. All sophomores andr freshmen belong to the General Military Corps (GMC) and:. have recehred promotions this term. Thefollowing is a list of ROTC student .officers: Tim Cooley--Cadet Lt. Col()nel Randy Petyak-Cadet Major Kate Mosher-Cadet Captain Eric Plura-Cadet Second Lt. Edward .Sinkora--Cadet Captain Jeff Colburn-Cadet Second Lt. Paul Siletzky...;Cadet Second 9 Lt. Jim Parsons--Cadet Technical Sergeant Michael Pinkans--Cadet Technical Sergeant Liese! Golden--Cadet Technical Sergeant Lee Dayton--Cadet Staff Sergeant Lee Dayton--Cadet Staff Sergeant Jim Edward-Cadet Sergeant Greg Tobin-Cadet Airman Michael York-Cadet Airman Terry Watkins--Cadet Air- man. Diane Winkler, Facilities Coordinator The Union phone system is scheduled to be modified in the near future. The \centrex one\ business system is to be replaced by a more modern and technologically advanced \centrex two\ model. These alterations are only to affect the business phone on-campus, for example Administration or Accounting ·systems, and not the student \centrex\ operations. According to Facilities Coordinator Dianne Winkler, the new \centrex\ model will be operating by February 11. There are nnany advantages to the replacements. First, a new feature will allow parties to transfer calls without going through the campus operator. Second, the new technology will provide for a conferencing mode. Lastly, the forwarding of telephone calls will be more efficient, thus relieving the system of heavy conversation traffic. All in all, the additional abilities will aid the College in operating more smoothly. I Marlboro Fest Returns The second of three Music from Marlboro concerts being presented at Union this season will be held Wednesday, February 10, in Memorial Chapel. Sponsored by the College and the Schenectady Museum, the concert will begin at 8p.m. An extension of Rudolf Serkin's renowned Marlboro Music Festival in Vernnont, Music from Marlboro, joins the finest young musicians from the U.S. and abroad with Marlboro veterans. Together, · they present both familiar and little known chamber music masterworks for varied com- binations of voice and in- struments. The February lOth program will feature chamber music for two pianos. It will include a 20th century masterpiece, the Bartok Sonata for Two Pianos and Percussion, played in honor of the centennial of Bartok's birth. The performers will be pianists Thomas Lorango and Bruno Canino and per- cussionists Neil Grover and John Grimes. Lorango and Grover may be remembered for their performance in Stravinsky's L'Histoire du Soldat during the first Music from Marlboro series at Union in March, 1980. The progr-am will also feature Lorango and Canino in Debussy's En Blanc et Noir for two pianos. They will be joined by French horn virtuoso David Jolley and cellists Kari·Lise Ravnan and Jonathan Spitz for Robert Schumann's rarely performed Andante and Variations in B-flat Major, Op. 46 for Two Pianos, Two Cellos and French Horn. Tickets for the concert at $6 and $3 for students are available at the Schenectady Museum, at all Community Box Office locations, and at the door. For more information, call the Museum or call 372- 3651, evenings. The Schenectady Museum- Union College International Festival of Chamber Music series will continue Friday and Saturday, Feb. 19 and 20, with a special two-concert per:- formance of the Complete Bach Suites by Dutch Baroque cellist Anner Bylsma. The final Music from Marlboro concert will be held in Memorial Chapel Saturday, March 27. BLOODMOBILE On Februa.ry 27, 28 and 29, the Theta Delta Chi Fraternity in coor- dination with the Schenectady Chapter Red Cross ran a Bloodmobile drive on-campus. Timmy Yatskow, President of the Fraternity, reported that a total of 265 units of blood were given to the drive. Yatskow ad- ditionally stated that 50 people were turned away and emphasized that their time and effod were greatly appreciated. The winner of the two kegs was first floor Fox South who had over thirty donors. Theta Delta Chi would like to thank the American Red Cross for their cooperation and assistance. A similar drive will be held sometime next term with prizes given again to campus groups. L .!!! ~ a cu r:: ttl .. >- .0 0 - 0 .c: c.

that non- ;erve m of erne I r nd's .ents our iate be :n in rrity 1 the the aid, 'the It it nied 1 the that un- that the in~ t I ors. :ree e to ady ave tbe ible for the on- ·ers a don .ent Jld. be :ing in .ent r a the the lin the viii ac- ROTC Marches Back By LIESEL GOLDEN Staff Sixteen Union students are presently enrolled in the Air Force Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC), Detachment 550, at RPI. Most of these cadets have received Air Force ROTC scholarships. This scholarship pays the cadet's· tuition, lab fees and books, as well as giving the cadet a $100 per month stipend. Schalarships range from one to four years and are usually granted in the fields of math and science. Students who join ROTC are eligible to compete for one of these scholarshipB. ROTC involves a minimum of a 2¥.! hour commitment per week for freshmen and sophomoreB, and a 4¥.! hour per week com- mitment for juniors and seniors. One and a half hours of this time is spent in Leadership lab each Tuesday at RPI. Activities in leadership lab include .guest speakers, drilling, inspection, and familiarization of military customs and courtesies. The other time is spent in miUtary classes learning about the Air Force, its purpose and fUilction. FIJI to Host This weekend, February 5 to 7, the Chi Chapter of Phi Gamma Delta will host a convention for 17 Northeastern college and university chapters. Designed as a leadership training session, more than 125 brothers and pledges of Phi Gamma Delta will attend lectures and seminars con- cerning the duties of officers, the purpose and responsibilities of the fraternity, the chapters' relationships with their respective institutions, and other related topics. Assistant Dean of Students Michael Andolina will give a talk on the importance of fraternities and their effect on the collegiate atmosphere. Participating schools include the University of Maine, MIT, the University of Vermont, University of Rhode Island, WPI, Columbia, New York University, Rutgers, Cornell, Colgate, Syracuse University, the University of Toronto, Johns Hopkins University, Lafayette College, Lehigh, and the University of Pennsylvania. More On AFS In reference to last week's article on the A.F .S. con- ference, Assistant Dean of Students Mike Andolina com- mented on a possible incident at Tri-Delta. Andolina did not make specific remarks because he did not know \what hap- pened\ at the house. Maria Brucculeri, President of the sorority, remarked that the so- called incident was \really no big deal,\ and the next day \we laughed at it.\ · The \Tri-Delta Incident\ started after the 33 high school students involved in the A.F.C. conference wre allegedly kicked out of the Pub. Since six of them were staying at Tri- Delta, they brought along their friends. For a couple of hours, there were no problems. But at around 1:30 a.m. students \went into our kitchen,\ said Brucculeri. She estimated the loss at approximately $15. Then, they turned the stereo up \pretty loud\ so that they could dance. At after 2:30, \we asked them to leave,\ Brucculeri said. \Once we said something, it was fine,\ she added. The real problem, Brucculeri thought, was that ''the program should have been set up a little better. There was nothing for them to do after 11:00, and high school students aren't about to go to sleep then.\ Double ''Peanuts'' this week, page 12 dp People Power helps prevent birth defects Support March of Dimes THIS SPACE CONTRIBUTED BY THE PUBLISHER 1 Upon completion of the sophomore year, cadets who are in good standing qualify for a position in the Professional Officers' Corps (POC). Recently our Union POC cadets have received additional promotions. All sophomores and freshmen belong to the General Military Corps (GMC) and have received promotions this terRl. The following is a list of ROTC student officers: Tim Cooley--Cadet Lt. Colonel Randy Petyak-Cadet Major Kate Mosher-Cadet Captain Eric Plura-Cadet Second Lt. Edward Sinkora--Cadet Captain Jeff Colburn-Cadet Second Lt. Paul Siletzky-Ca<tet Second Lt. . Jim Parsons--Cadet Technical Sergeant Michael Pinkans-~Cadet Technical Sergeant Liese! Golden--Cadet Technical Sergeant Lee Dayton--Cadet Staff Sergeant Lee Dayton--Cadet Staff Sergeant Jim Edward-Cadet Sergeant Greg Tobin-Cadet Airman Michael York-Cadet Airman Terry Watkins--Cadet Air- man. Diane Winkler, Facilities Coordinator Dial Centrex II The Union phone system is scheduled to be modified in the near future. The \centrex one\ business system is to be replaced by a more modern and technologically advanced \centrex two\ model. These alterations are only to affect the business phone on-campus, for example Administration or Accounting systems, and not the student ''centrex\ operations. According to Facilities Coordinator Dianne Winkler, the new \centrex\ model will be operating by February 11. There are many advantages to the replacements. First, a new feature will allow parties t<J transfer earls without going through the campus operator. Second, the new technology will provide for a conferencing mode. Lastly, the forwarding of telephone calls will be more efficient, thus relieving the system of heavy conversation traffic. All in all, the additional abilities will aid the College in operating more smoothly. Marlboro Fest Returns The second of three Music from Marlboro concerts being presented at Union this season will be held Wednesday, February 10, in Memorial Chapel. Sponsored by the College and the Schenectady Museum, the concert will begin at 8 p.m. An extension of Rudolf Serkin's renowned Marlboro Music Festival in Vermont, Music from Marlboro, joins the finest young musicians from the U.S. and abroad with Marlboro veterans. Together, they present both familiar and little known chamber music masterworks for varied com- binations of voice and in- struments. The February lOth program will feature chamber music for two pianos. It will include a 20th ' \ century masterpiece, the Bartok Sonata for Two Pianos and Percussion, played in honor of the centennial of Bartok's birth. The performers will be pianists Thomas Lorango and Bruno Canino and per- cussionists Neil Grover and John Grimes. Lorango and Grover may be remembered for their performance in Stravinsky's L'Histoire du Soldat during the first Music from Marlboro series at Union in March, 1980. The program will also feature Lorango and Canino in Debussy's En Blanc et Noir for two pianos. They will be joined by French hom virtuoso David Jolley and cellists Kari~Lise Ravnan and Jonathan Spitz for Robert Schumann's rarely performed Andante and Variations in B-flat Major, Op. 46 for Two Pianos, Two Cellos and French Horn. Tickets for the concert at $6 and $3 for students are available at the Schenectady Museum, at all Community Box Office locations, and at the door. For more information, call the Museum or call 372- 3651, evenings. The Schenectady Museum- Union College International Festival of Chamber Music series will continue Friday and Saturday, Feb. 19 and 20, with a special two-concert per~ fonnance of the Complete Bach Suites by Dutch Baroque cellist Anner Bylsma. The final Music from Marlboro concert will be held in Memorial Chapel Saturday, March 27. BLOODMOBILE On February 27, 28 and 29, the Theta Delta Chi Fraternity in coor- dination with the Schenectady Chapter Red Cross ran a Bloodmobile drive on-campus. Timmy Yatskow, President of the Fraternity, reported that a total of 265 units of blood were given to the drive. Yatskow ad- ditionally stated that 50 people were turned away and emphasized that their time and effort were greatly appreciated. The winner of the two kegs was first floor Fox South who had over thirty donors. Theta Delta Chi would like to thank the American Red Cross for their cooperation and assistance. A similar drive will be held sometime next term with prizes given again to campus groups. I... <ll Ill > Ill u <ll c:: Ill ...., >- .0 0 .... 0 .s::. a.

Page 4 CONOORDIENSIS, February 4, 1982 feature Gatesmen Selections I Frathouse Review · At one time in our not-s<r distant past, the motto of the Postal Service began \Neither rain nor heat nor snow nor gloom of night shall stay these couriers .... \ Although this was the official motto of the Postal Service, there is another ser- vice organization which could well adopt it as their unofficial motto; namely, the Union College Gatesmen. The Gatesmen organization is an honorary organization of ap- proximately sixty-five up- perclassmen which works with the Admissions Office. Their primary function is to serve as tour guides for prospective students and their families-and \serve'' is really the key word. Gatesman must not only deal with inclement weather (they give tours throughout Winter Tenn! ), but with the more important issue of com- municating their enthusiasm for the knowledge about Union College to their tours. Senior Gatesmen also have the privilege of serving in Group Information Sessions with members of the Admissions Staff during Winter Term. This year selection to this honorary service group will be in the Winter Term. Applications are available in the Admissions Office and the Student Activities Office bet- ween February 1 and February 15; tn other words, right now. The traits which prospective. Gatesmen should possess in- clude enthusiasm and respect for Union; an outgoing per- sonality, a desire to meet new people, and a willingness to communicate. It is important for a Gatesman to be en- thusiastic about the school because .it is difficult for prospective students to grasp every detail about every school they visit. They only have time for a first impression, so it is vital that they see how much their guide enjoys the college. Honesty and respect also play a role in a Gatesman Tour. All of us know that Union is not perfect. A Gatesman must be able to forthrightly answer questions about a possible deficiency at Union, and tell how the school attempts to positively solve its problems, like buildin~ a new Athletic Field to meet the needs of students. Another important quality for a potential Gatesman to possess is responsibility. Gatesmen are asked to give one tour each week lasting approximately one hour. It is vital that Gatesmen be punCtual for the smooth functioning of the Admissions Grant Research By TOM MEGERIAN Staff This article is the second in a series about externally funded research at Union College. Raymond Rappaport, Professor of Developmental Biology here at Union since 1952, talked about the nature of his research which he has been doing for twenty years, dating back to 1960. Throughout this span of time, he has had a continuing source of grant money from the National Science Foundation (N.S.F.), the most recent having been granted in 1979, to be ap- propriated over a five-year period. The $200,.(){){) grant was very significant in that it was a five-year grant, which is not the customary term granted by N.S.F. In the past, Professor Rappaport has had to reapply every two years, a very hin- dering procedure as much valuable research time is taken up in application paperwork. He decided to propose the five-year grant and, to his surprise, the foundation accepted the logic behind the five-year proposal over the traditional two-year term. Professor Rappaport explained the basis of award magnitude, saying that the \amount of money you get is a function of how much you need and how much they've got.\ Commenting on the cutbacks and inflationary pinch that many researchers have felt over the past decade, Rap- paport feels fortunate enough to say that he \ . . . can't complain that they've cut me back in ways that have seriously in- terfered with the research I was doing,\ Professor Rappaport is presently continuing his research of twenty years, studying in great detail, the '' .. . mechanism of animal cell division\ as he puts it. \The work I've done is trying to understand the mechanism of pinch.'' All animal cells divide by a pinching of the cell membrane, causing the for- mation of two cells where there was originally only one. This whole process of cell division is termed Mitosis. Professor Rappaport explained that the pinching is accomplished by a kind of contractile belt which forms a band around the area where the cell is to split. The appearance of this belt is associated with the physical contact of certain mitotic structures with the inner sur- face of the cell's membrane. It is at this. site that the \belt\ forms. This \belt along with many other structures involved with mitotic division, seems to be created from proteins contained within the cell just before cell division takes place and, after the two cells have formed from one, dissolve back into the cytoplasm (the cell's watery environment which constitutes a large proportion of its makeup), ready for reuse in the next division. Professor Rappaport describes the three aspects of cell (mitotic) division that he is studying. They are: The force at which the \con- tractile belt\ tightens, thus pinching the cell into two; the time needed for certain mitotic structures to come in contact with the cell surface in order for the cleavage furrow (pinch in cell wall) to form; and the geometrical relation between the mitotic apparatus and cell's membrane. Professor Rappaport con- siders the procedure by which the force of the contractile belt can be measured to be one of the more important things to come out of his research. The method he devised utilizes very small needles which are implanted through the cell's center, perpendicular to the pinching force. By measuring the amount that the contractile force of the belt bends the needle as it constricts, he can determine the force of con- striction. In addition to this procedure, Rappaport has been able to do experiments which indicate that only certain parts of the mitotic apparatus are involved with cell division while Continued on page 12 Office. Potential Gatesmen must be willing to make this commitment! , Knowledge of the college is important, but during the Gatesmen Orientation Program, new members learn most of the history of Union and the programs offered. It is only important for selection to have a general knowledge of the school. Applications for all interested will be available from February l through February 15 in the Admissions Office or the Student Activities Offic.e. Prospective Gatesmen must participate in a personal in- terview with members. The interview will be held between February 15 through February 18 in the evenings. A sign-up sheet is available in the Admissions Office. There are approximately twenty-eight positions open for new Gatesmen. By ROBERT DRIS€0LL Investigative Reporter This won't be your run-of-the- mill review because, you see, I've never had run of the mill, although presently I do have run of the nose. You see, I promised my editor that l' d review Frat House. I was told this would be my big break. I think that's it. Or it could have been that if I didn't write something, they'd break, my legs - I'm not sure which. So, 1 was determined to write a review of Frat House. And it was going to be a great review. After all, I'm taking a film course dght now, and after writing .four journal entries already, I figured I knew my stuff, and that this review would be really competent. I'd analyze the plot, the character developments, camera angles- everything. But, I couldn't get a ticket. It Winter Flowers I By THOMAS CHING Staff At Union's greenhouse, Spring miraculously appears at the end of January and runs past the summer solstice, but decisions about what will be planted in that time have usually been made several months in advance. In the greenhouses, rows and rows of annuals are about to emerge from their underground chambers, cuttings of geranium and begonias wait patiently before bursting into their full glory while the still-dormant seeds of basil, oregano and majoram try to do justice to the brightly illustrated seed packets. The greenhouses, on the grounds of Jackson's Gardens, are located directly behind North College. Despite the subzero weather, Richard Luniewski is busy taking cuttings from several herbs which will eventually be planted outdoors. With his pipe clenched securely between his teeth, Mr. Luniewski proudly shows his enormous but ever increasing list of plants which will go outdoors after Memorial Day. His present list consists of 56 different varieties of plants which include both annuals (those which sow their seeds and die in the winter) and pere1mials (like the annuals but return annually). Interested in Writing Features? Contact Judi at 6155 Presently, the conservatory is quite bare save for a few houseplants, a .few leftover poinsettias and some empty flower beds. The greenhouse, as Mr. Luniewski explained, is a \gradual process\ in that each \occupant\ has a different germination period. By sowing seeds with long germination periods, the greenhouse is getting a \headstart\ in that the seedlings will be planted outdoors as soon as the weather ·warms up. During the spring, Mr. Luniewski and his · army of students, prepare flower beds, weed, fertilize and finally transplant these seedlings in Jackson Gardens. But this far from the end, the seedlings require the constant patience and attention of Mr. Luniewski and his dedicated staff. After the seedlings have \Hardened off\ from the elements, Mr. Luniewski can than devote himself to his other duties. During the rest of the year, he _ tends the greenhouse, orders next year's seeds and arranges floral displays for the special occasions at Union. During last year~s Homecoming, Mr. Luniewski was responsible for the numerous chrysanthemum displays in the dining halls and throughout the campus. But at this moment, he is still , taking cuttings, planning· the gardens and adding to his ever increasing list but hoping nevertheless for Spring to appear outdoors. Location: Behind North College and directly across from Carnegie Hall. Hours: 8 a.m.-4 -.m. Mondays - Friday. Accessibility: All welcome. was sold even .before I got there. So I can't review Frat House. And though my editor was upset, in a way, I'm not. You see, my mom gets the Concordy mailed to her. I can just imagine what that would be like. I would have written the review, and months later, by the time the United States Postal Department got around to delivering it to my mother's doorstep, I would have already forgotten even seeing that memorable film. The phone call woUld be frantic. I'd pick up, and instead of hearing a demure voice inquiring as to how I am, did I eat all right, and was I dressing warm enough, I'd hear: ''What's the meaning of this\?\ · ''Mom\?\ \Frat House! Why did you have to review Frat House?\ '\Urn well, you see;\ I'd begin suavely, suddenly realizing why my mother seemed a little irked. ''You see, , Mom, urn, I had to. Besides,\ I'd continue, trying to make up a better reason, \you see, I have season tickets, and 1 . . . \ \You couldn't miss one?\ ''Yeah, well, I could, but then I'd be disqualified for the keg of beer they're auctioning .off to all-\ \Keg of what?\ Keg of steer, Mom.\ \Keg of steer? What kind of craziness is that? l wasn't born yesterday, you know.'' ''I know that, Mom.'' Not exactly the right thing to say. \What?\ \What I mean was that . . . \ \Yes?\ ''It's an Irish butcher.\ \ . ''Yeah--Hooligan's Bar & Grill & Butcher shop.\ \Oh.\ \Yes. Last week, in fact, they were auctioning off a pitcher of turkey. Next week, it's a shot of steak.\ \Oh. Oh, I see now.\ \Yes. Well, I thought you would.\ You see, I don't really want to go through that. I've had a tough enough time just thinking of what could have happened, if I really reviewed Frat House. Besides, it turned out to be such a boring movie, really. Pro-Lifers •.. Continued from page 13 might support nuclear research in the state, Grimm explained, \We're not saying everybody has:a right to object. We're only saying choice should be provided when it is a very important issue, and when a choice can be given without impairing education.'' Are You Interested in Writing About Women's Issues? ANIMA • is now accepting articles for its next issue. Please contact: Sharon at 370-6808, Anna at 377-5543, D~na at 370-6860 or. drop us a note in Box 2539.

ere. use. was You tidy just be the by !ltes und er's ady hat be ead )ice id I ling of you e?\ I'd nly her ~ee, , !S,\ :up :, I \ . . ' hen ~of ' to l of orn Not ay. \ & 1ey ·of ; of IOU ;to a ing ,if se. lCh ch ~d, dy tly be 1ry a >Ut - OONOORDIENSIS, Feb.ruary 4, 1988 Page 5 ' features ' ' ' . . .. ' .. . . . ~ . ' . • - ' • ~ ' 1 > • ' ' ' I~- • ' ' • ' ; • Blante it on Union AggresSion •• In Question c By ERIC RUBEN Columnist As is the . case with many males at Union, my roommate is less than neat. When we first moved into our room; there were two desks. Then there was one dEsk and a mound. The mound consisted of scrap paper, comic books, computer· printouts, bubble gum wrap- pers, pens, pencils, erasers, textbo()ks, the \Rock and Roll Encyclopedia,\ postcards, pre_tze:ls, magic markers, glasses, cups, bottles, a frisbee and a few old beer cans. This mound once belonged to my roommate. He affectionately called it, \The Mess.\ My roommate was a com- plicated man, but he was fair and kind although he was sometimes given to rage and killed tw~lve people. It wasn't his fault. They were stupid for trying to talk to him when .he was in a had mood. I didn't su.spect anything until a few days ago. The mess was growing but I thought nothing of ·it. GIZA, a .strange but real name, was just adding more on to the pile, that• s all. The oc- casional movements on his desk I attributed to a settling of the pile. Now that I look back on it, I really bad no reason to suspect anything, until the first note. \FEED. ME,\ it said. \It must be a pranlt/' I thought to myself. It just didn't make sense. I threw out the note. Every day tbat week: a similar note appeared on my desk and each time I threw it out. Then one day I noticed that the pile was starting to spread onto my desk. I complained to GIZA who Remember: Idol Deadline • IS Feb. 15, -.WE DELIVER-. 37 4-1888 defended himself saying that my desk wasn't good enough to throw his shit on. Then one night it became all too clear. I woke up in the middle of the night to find the mess moving off my desk and back to GIZA's. It had left another note. \FEED ME. OR ELSE!\ I woke up GIZA. He saw the mess coming at us and before I coUld say anything he pushed me out of the way. He was going to fight what be had so proudly created. He threw paper clips at it, hoping it would get stuck and stop moving .. It kept coming at him. When he tried to kick the mess it engulfed his foot and started to suck him in. I reached out for him but it was too late.,., The mess had eaten GIZA. In my rage I took a book of mat- ches and, after lighting the whole book, threw it onto the mess. When the firemen came, it took only a few seconds to put out the fire. Even though I lost my roommate, at least I could sleep in peace once more. The mess was dead. Satire: By RACHEL I. MANDEL Associate Editor A survey entitled ''Agression Between Men and Women at Union College: Does It Exist?\ will be conducted next week to explore the possible existence,, and prevalence of violence between men and women on campus. The survey will be written, distributed and analyzed by t!Je Social Methods Research class taught by Professor Martha ijuggins of th~ Sociology Department. The term project is designed to acquaint students with the methods of research while working on a topic that they deem important and worthy. The class hopes to elucidate dependable data 'on the dif· ferent types of violence that might exist between students on campus. The survey will divide violent acts into three types: verbal threat of violence, the vioient act itself (hitting, slapping, pushing, etc.) or sexu~l violence . ''Blame ·It On Concordy'' By GLENN PEARL Last week something much much worse than horrible happened: It was Thursday. I'd been waiting all week for it. As usual I was waiting in line exhibiting my usual crowd-mob behavior; (who knows maybe the scene would see print). Until finally I'd gotten my edition of this week's faithfill Concordy. After reading the headline~? STUDENT APATHY UP .4 percent, (big deal!), I carefully folded the paper and stuffed it into a pocket. Later, back at the dorm, I took out old faithful and started reading, (or something like that). I skimmed the editorial pages reminding me a'bout how apathetic and downright negligent I was. This took about everything out of me so I decided on a nap. I found sleep impossible with the late afternoon sun trying to poke itself through the window. What to do? Suddenly I was hit with a brainstrom-a real in- 464 State St. Schenectady, NY tellectual head rush. Plan: reinforce the skimpy drapes with old faithful. You can't keep yourself from such ·brilliant ideas when you're in college, or so I thought the idea brilliant. Sure, I got to sleep. But the nightmare! I dreamt that my Uncle Hershey and Aunt Tootsie took over the editorship of the Concordy. It was horrible. The Concordy became required reading. The entire school was quizzed on it daily. But the most horrible part were the news items: Like GLENN PEARL RECEIVES C+ ON EXAM- WE DON'T THINK HE'S STUDYING ENOUGH. And UNC HERSHEY'S B'DAY PASSES--NO CARD· FROM GLENN.Also COUSIN JEFF PROMOTED TO BANK PRES.- WHAT ABOUT GLENN? The horror seemed endless. Finally I was able to wake just as my Uncle Hershey and Aunt Tootsie were going to turn Concordy into a daily paper. Lying under my bed (how did I get there?) I then saw the Coneordy, Old Faithful, gently break itself away from the skimpy curtains and float to a place on the .floor just under my nose. I sneezed vigorously in a machine gun manner-(well, at least like a shot gun). I got up with the intention of filing Old Faithful as trash. But then I suddenly felt very guilty about this. Ever since I've be.en clinging to my Old Faithful. No, I won't toss it! Hey, anybody out there with a dog in training? at the corner of State .. St. and Erie Blvd. in the High lt1 Quality, low in price .,Old\ State Arcbde- 377 .. 1515 5 Barber/Stylists Plea.sing you, · Pleases us· -Serving Union for over 60 years- The· recipients of the survey will be chosen at random, from a list of box nwnbers (only undergraduate full..;time students will be ,eligible), , and approximately 400 question- naires will be sent out. They will he distributed proportionately between men and women. The surveys will be asked to be returned to a box in the mailroom within 48 hours of receipt. Every precaution will be taken to preserve the anonymity of the students .filling out the .surveys. It is hoped that all of the question- naires will return in order to obtain a large enough sample size. If not enough surveys are returned, the class will send out letters to all 400 of the recipients asking them to please return the surveys if they have not done so already. If .this proves un- satisfactory, another batch of surveys will be mailed out in the hope of increasing the return rate of finished surveys. Professor Huggins believes that if we are like other schools that have been the subject of similar surveys, then our results will be comparable. A recent article that appeared in a faU issue of Time magazine quoted that at Arizona State, more than \60 percent of the non-married upperclass students had encountered 'some kindof violence' while dating.'' A similar poll at Oregon State University estimated the number of violent \lovers at about 25 percent.\ When asked to comment on the possibility of finding similar statistics for Union College, Dean of Students Don Spring noted that Union may have a different make-up of students than these larger state universities. He felt that the type of student that Union attracts might not condone such actions and therefore, the 25-60 percent range might not apply. In addition to trying to quantify the amount of violence between men and women on campus, the survey will also try to determine the types of people who are most likely to engage in a violent act, and those who are most likely to subject themselves to acts of violence or repeated abuse. If possible, there is also intl>rest in trying to identify and define the types of situations that would prompt someone to use violence against another individual, justifying the action to them- selves based on the cir- cumstances. There is some concern that the survey will not be taken seriously, or that the results will not be . honest. Professor Huggins stated that she has tried to \stress to them (the class) that other studies like this, and even more sensitive studies such as the study that was done on incest in families .. . are getting what we would consider to be reliable results.\ It is thought that students will take it seriously but might under-report incidents to protect or shield someone (although all answers are confidential), or because they simply don't want to think about it. Huggins said that she believes that students \will want to know what is going on at the campus, and I think that they would like to see the results of a study like this and therefore I think that they will take it very seriously and handle it as something that will give in- formation and maybe even correct a situation.\ The class is divided into different study groups that will analyze different aspects of the survey. For example, one graup may take a th&;lory that they have learned about and try to apply it to the statistics ob- tained, likethe relation between alienation and the tendency to be violent. They will also study the structures that might make effective treatment of the victim difficult. This will be done by trying to determine the various channels open to an individual who seeks assistance. A hypothetical study is being considered where the group will ask students on campus what the! would do if they were the victims of a violent threat or attack. If they answer that they would report it, the study group will pursue the issue by asking to whom the student would report it. If the student gives them a name, i.e. a professor's name, the group will go to the professor and ask them what they would do if a student came to them with that particular problem. When the professor responds, the group will follow the lead up trying to determine if the channels available are effective in dealing with the student's problem. . This type of study can quite possibly lead to the formation of several recommendations as to what changes can be made in the system, if they are warranted. For example, if it is found that there are more in- cidents of violence during periods of high stress like finals, then perhaps the administration will be advised to try to lessen pressure felt by the students by setting up activities to modify the tense environment. It will take a matter of days to process preliminary results if the sample size is satisfactory. If this is the case, the class will be willing to publish the results . In fact, three members of the class have volunteered to bring the separate term papers into one large systematic report in order to be able to present it to interested members of the faculty, administration, and student body. Prior to the distribution of the survey, the project proposal and the question must be ap- proved by the Union College Ethics Committee for Research on Human Subjects. As soon as preliminary approval is given, the surveys will be distributed. The point ofthe study is not to point to anybody and accuse them of being \too aggressive,\ or unfit to attend college, tiut to try to understand what is going on and why it is happening. It is an attempt to discover and define some of the personality characteristics of the student body and socio-structural characteristics of the school. With this in mind, the survey ultimately will point out ways that we can correct any problems that might exist so that people will be more willing to tallt about them and work for aj!olution. Personals - p. 11

Page 6 OONOORDIE'l\l.SIS, February 4, 1982 ~rts & Culture A New Angle Macbeth Proiect Underwa · Barry Smith, Co-Director of MacBeth. A Quick Note on Bill DiConza was the M.C. of last week's Cabaret-a Caberet which was more entertaining than usual. As always he put on a great show. The crowd loved his impressions of Ronnie Reagan, Paul Lynde, and Top Ten music stars such as Frank Sinatra and Slim Whittm<ln. The first act, which starred Judy beth Greene ami Joe Uvegas was excellent. Joe played guitar while .Judybeth Poetry at UnitJn sang songs by Fleetwood Mac, Carla Bonoff, and Barbara Streisand. Joe's lead vocal was a Neil Young tune which went. over very well. ·Everyone would have lovEd to hear more vocals from Joe, Brll introduced the second act which au!de the crowd go wild. Two excellent musicians, Mike Zanta on guitar and Steve Koelbel on pian() played a .good assortment of tunes. They By MICHAEL SHARP Staff With Barry Smith, the head of the Arts Department at Union, and Charlie Steckler, Arts Professor as co-directors, the so called Macbeth Project has gotten underway. Notice that it is a project and not just-a play. This is not your typical Macbeth .pleased the crowd with \Lola • · reminiscent of the Ki·nks' concert, and Bachman Turner · Overdrive's \Taking Care of Business.\ Mike played a very · pretty classical guitar solo and · an original song of his which the audience loved. They completed the night with an encore of •·•Twist-n-Shout\ which got · everyone (not to mention Judy S. and Emily M.) on the floor dancing. All that can be said is that it was an awesome show. JoluJ. Drury To Speak Poet John Drury will give a talk and read from his wmk at Uni()n College on Tuesday, February 9th. Mr. Drury is the autl!or of a chapbook, Fire in the Wax Museum (The Press at Coiorado College, 1980). His poems have appeared or are forthcoming in Antioch Review, Iowa Review, Poetry, and Sbenandilah. Mr. Drury received his M.A. from the Writing Seminars of the Johns Hopkins University and his M.F.A. from tbe Writers' Workshop of the University of Iowa. He has taught at Johns Hopkins and Iowa, and he currently works You are invited to submit your creative work for publication in the upcoming Idol magazine. for the Academy of American Poets in New York City. Mr. Drury will speak at 3~30 p.m. in HU 116 and will read at 8:00 p.m. in the Humanities Lounge on the second floor of the Humanities Center. This is the third in a series of readings by contemporary authors sponsored by the English Department and the Idol literary magazine. The next reading will be by poet Liam Rector on February 25th. performance; For one thing the .script has been drastically shaved down to its' barest essential. There are no flowery words and whole characters nave been cut from the script. In other words, all the unessential stuff that traditionally has contributed to making Macbeth an actor's nightmare is gone. What'& left? The \Evil Nightmare\ Qr Macbeth's vision of the .toling witches and his aspiration to the throne. Where in previous productions, wordiness was the key, now it's human psychology and drama . The student actors have been working four hours, five days a week to make it work. Can they make a go of it? That remains to be seen during the eight per- fcmnances scheduled for sometime late in F.ebruary, opening around the 27th or 28th. Veteran actor George Siletsky bas been called in to lend a hand. · So, what we have is a new angle on \Macbeth\, a sort of modified Shakespeare. It's going to be interesting to see what the Arts Department has been cooking up .for us. Charlie Steckler will also codirect and design the set. Top Imports 1. Gimme Shelter-The Rolling Stones 2. Gonna Ball-The Stray Cats 3. John Barleycorn Must Die-Traffic 4. Best of Cream 5. Mod Rules (EP)-Black Sabbath 6. The House of the Rising Sun-The Animals 7. The Stones Story-The Rolling Stones 8. The Stray Cats 9. Genius of Love (EP)-The Tom Tom Club 10. We Sold Our Soul• for Rock& Roll-Black Sabbath Written work should be typed or neatly hand- written. Keep a copy for yourself; written work cannot be returne-d. Please write your name and address on a separate sheet, not on the works themselves. Elig.i ble for submission are poetry, short stories, creative essays, etc. Send to the I DOL, Box 2526. Artwork should be submitted to the Arts Department main office, enclosed in a protective covering of some sort. Artwork will be returned. Any work which is reproducible in black and white is eligible for submission. Orientation Committee Appl~cations are available in the PHOTO CLUB WINTER PHOTO CONTEST The deadline for submissions is Monday, Feb. 15. If you have any questions, please contact Mary at 37 4-6236. Student Activities Office CHARLES OPTICIANS 604 UNION ST., SCHDY, N.Y. Near Stockade COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE B & L C0fj1ACTS IN STOCK METAL SOLDERING PLASTIC FUSING STUDENT DISCOUNTS 377-1283 Jad.ltiDn . IJDntiqtu. Theme: Winter at Union- pictures portraying winter life at Union Entries Due Monday, Feb 15th 1st Prize -$75- :J:>IL:JS free darkroom use for the rest of the year and a discount card for Burns Camera Store. 2nd Prize - $25 ·and extras

to a of I.. ~ ~ Ill u. cv c Ill .., >- ./.l 0 - r OONOORDIENSIS, Ji'e\bnux 4, 1982 ~rts. & Culture New Album Releases of '82 By ROBERTA RUBINSTEIN Arts Edlwr Page 7 This time of year is usually quiet for the record industry, but there are a number of new releases we can look forward to in the upcoming weeks. Just r.ecently released was L()U Reed's Blue Mask (Arsita) which hasn't been given much air time, but has been out for at least a week. Nick Lowe has also recorded a new album, Nick the Knife (Columbia) which should be out in a matter of days. Also coming out is an album track of nine previously unreleased Janis Joplin ttmes (5 live tracks and 4 studio). These were recorded with Paul Buttetfield of the Butterfield Blues . Band and produced by Todd Rundgren (BML). Stevie Wonder hasn't put anything out in a while, but Capitol records announced that he played a duet with McCartney on an album track called Tug of War which should be' out next month. (There's also a possibility that Ringo recorded on the album as well.) On the more commercial side of things . . . for those who missed Simon and Garfurikel's concert in Central Park this past fall, Columbia has released a double track called Concert .in the Park which should be out in stores by now. The B-ij2's have recently recorded a 12 inch disc (EP) called Mesopotamia ·which includes 6 studio tracks. The Talking Heads, Utopia and Van Morrison are expected to be coming out with albums next month and Epic recently an- nounced that the Clash is also recording a soon-t~b&released double. album. Pete Townshed is also said to be working on another single album andSteve Howe of the original Yes has teamed up with Carl Palmer of ELP and are in the process of recording an album with John Winters and Jeff Danes. Cartoons Q.n. Exhi'bit Most of these albums shou!d be out within the next tiew weeks-though you might wait for the prices to go down before adding any of them to your collectjon. If you are a fan of Bugs Bunny, Wile E. Coyote, Winnie the Pooh, or a hundred other cartoon characters, there's .an exhibit that's sure to win you over. _ On Film Hundreds of animation eel paintings from Hollywood cartoon~ are the subject of a special Exhibit and Sale to be held at Union College, Monday and Tuesday, February 15- 16, 1982, from 9 a.m. unti16 p.m., in Strauss Lotmge, Carnegie Hall. The public is invited. This event is sponsored by Student Activities. By JONATHAN ANDREWS A good movie score or soundtrack is one where y()u leave the movie whistling t11e theme song, or at least not asking yourself \was there a11y inusic'?\ The score is res(X)n- sible for heightening moods tllat are being conveyed to y()U primarily through the actors. The music is there to help, not establish; two of the first are in Love St~try; and in Star Wars. Doctor Zhivago, with its lilting Russian flute in tile background, also comes io mind. In a sad scene, the score will emphasize minor keys; ill a horror movie, or a thriller, o11e should expect deep, resonant bass notes creeping, probably played on an organ. A science fiction cinema experience will probably use the pinball effects of synthesized drums and keyboards. This receiver has had a number of experiences in the recent past with the rnusieal attachments to films. Fratbouse, shown a sh()rt while ago at Union College's recently condemned civic center, SS016, was a poor movie. But one can see, from time to time, strains of in~ telligence desparately trying \to shine through. In the p()r- nographic genre, Frathouse can't touch Kinky Ladies e~f Bourbon Street, in either aesthetics, acting or plot. B1.1t, skin aside, there were sorne high moments in Frathouse. The revved-up \love-making\ scene, .admittedly ripped-()ff from Clockwork Orange, was well put to the William Tell Overture. It may not have been too original, but then what really is in a p.ornographic cinema extravaganza? At least they were intelligent enough to rip-off Kubrick's Clockwork Orange, When the gentleman in the movie tried his hand at fantasy commercials, they worked well. The music put to the disco dream scene also helped to make that scene relatively believable. . Absence of Malice, a film about J ournallstic muckrakers and their effect on the lives of corruptible and non-corruptible people, stars Paul Newman and Sally Fields, and was directed by Sidney Pollock. The only strong part of this movie was the acting; Newman was convincing and Fields was possible in an almost impossible role. The problem with Absence of Malice is that it is too, too obvious. A fourth-grade reject should be able to stay ahead of the ''plot''. Sally Fields, playing Megan Carter, a reporter for the Miami Standard, un- derstandably falls in love with Newman's Michael Gallager. The attraction cannot be physical, because it is Gallagher the character, without a face, whom she would. fall for. But Gallagher's character is suspect; he is the son of a Mafia kingpin, with a record, with morals lost in a pr&Industrial revolution feudal society. Needless to say, he is not a serf. Moreover, if Gallagher is as innocent as he claims, then he should not have expected to be \followed nor should he have expected Car- ter's use of a hidden microphone. So we must assume that Megan Carter falls for Newman the actor. But if Newman is taken out of his role, you have a ridiculous situation. So, congratulations for his acting, but poor logistics. In addition, one of the biggest problems with Absence of . Malice is the total absence of a musical score. Tender situations, though situations as well, are left on their own by the conspicuous absence of dry symphony. It was this as much as anything that prevented Absence of Malice from being anything better than average. Union College will soon host An American Were wolf in London, which is a worthwhile Phi Delta Theta ANNOUNCES ITS ANNUAL TACO and TEQUILA PARTY~ SATURDAY, FEB. (itb after the hockey game picture. WerewoH in London does not hold a candle to WoHen,.whichpreceeded it by 3 weeks this summer. But WerewoH in London does come alive with a super, but perhaps, too short, soundtrack. Starring - Creedence Clearwater revival's \Bad Moon Rising\ the soundtrack explodes . off the screen, putting a lighter touch on an already wonderfully light movie. Very obviously absent is Warren Zevon's \Werewolves of London\ but it's rellay nice to see a fihn do something unexpected. Lately, we see the successful reversal of this score to the filin process on MTV, Musical Television. Here, rock-n-rollers put film to already recorded songs. The problem with this is that one can no longer use their imagination to fit the songs. But the beauty of rock and roll video is that you can really get to the heart of what the musicians are trying to say. It is here that we see the only unqualified success of the week: U2's cinemagraphic version of \Gloria.\ Filmed on a barge in the- Belfast docks, the gray, gray and more gray of the background fits the depression of Northern Ireland perfectly. At the end, the maligned sector of Ireland's religious war, the children and teenagers, gather around on another barge and watch U2 with faces of desperate hope. The singer sings \Gloria if I had anything, I'd give it all to you,\ and the viewer really realizes that just what the trouble is, is where these guys are coming from. Other videos include Rod Stewart's \Young Turks\ . (basically the same theme as \Gloria\, but too campy and happy), the Police doing \Every Little Thing She Does Is Magic\ to the villages of Montserrat, the Pretenders \Brass in Pocket\ and the Steve Miller Band's \Heart Like A Wheel\. Animation eel naintings, called \eels are the paintings actually filmed in making the animated cartoon. Each character is painted by hand on a clear sheet of acetate, usually 11\ X 14\ or larger,thenplaced against a background and photographed one-by-one to produce a reel of motion picture film. Cels are on&of-a-king, not prints or reproductions. They are the culmination of the ar- tistic process-the final image that is photographed by the camera. This Exhibit was authen- ticated by Gallery Lainzberg of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, the nation's best-known specialist in this unique art form. A representative of Gallery Lainzberg will be on hand to answer questions. The Exhibit-Sale will feature a selection of eels from feature- length Walt Disney films, in- . eluding \The Jungle Book,\ \Robin Hood,\ \Winnie the Pooh,\ \The Rescuers,\ \The Aristocats,\ and the recently released, \The Fox and the Hound.\ Original pencil animation drawings from some of Disney's early films of the 1930's and 1940's will also be offered. Original Disney art work has long appealed to a broad range of collectors. In reporting an auction of Disney animation eels at Sotheby Parke Bernet Galleries in L. A., the L. A. Times (7-3-81) wrote, \The eels commanded stiff prices, reflecting the rising demand for Disney· memorabilia by art dealers and Disney collectors. And the value seemed to have little to do with the age of the pieces.\ Today many people are in- vesting in animation eel paintings of all kinds, especially signed pieces. Of particular importance at this Exhibit is a collection of eel paintings featuring the popular Warner Women In Film Series Continues At Union The Women in Film Seri.es sponsored by the Union College Women's Commission and the Women's Network wi II continue at the college with a showing of \To Be Young, Gifted and Black: Lorraine Hansberry\ on February 17 and 1 'Girlfriends\ on March 3. The series . will resume in the spring term with \Craig's Wife'' on March 31. All films in the series are shown free of charge. For more information, contact Assistant Professor of History Catherine Clinton at 370- 6222. Jl, ' Bros. characters-Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck, Wile E. Coyote, the Roadrunner, Pepe Le Pew, and the Tasmanian Devil. Some of these paintings bear the signature .of Chuck Jones, widely regarded as one of America's foremost animators. Competing for the collector's attention are animation eels from Ralph Bakshi's best known productions: ''American Pop\ and \Wizards.\ Some of these eels have been signed by Ralph Bakshi. Another highlight of this Exhibit-Sale is the art work from \Gnomes an imaginative and popular fan- tasy film based on the best selling book. Finally, the Exhibit-Sale will include eels from dozens of other cartoons from vintage Krazy Kats and Betty Boops to eels from current television shows. The interest in animation art work as a collectible and as Fine Art has burgeoned in recent years. Part of this · growth has to do with the generally reasonable prices for original art work. Writing in Rarities (Summer 1981), a magazine devoted to Collee- tibles, Le()nard Shannon ex- plains, \ . . . animation art is still affordable. All kinds of paintings can be bought for less than $50.00. But, regardless ()f price, any art work created for an animated film is, by its very nature, unique and collectible.\ Permanent collections of animation art may be found in major museums across the country such as the Museum of Modern Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the San Francisco Museum of Art. Original animation art was the subject of a two-mongh Exhibit at the Library of Congress in Nov. 1978 and this summer, an elaborate Exhibit was held at the prestigious Whitney Museum of Art in New York City, attracting enormous in- terest. Schenectady Alumni to Attend \Evening Of Ja.zz'' The Union College Schenectady Alumni Club has tickets available for area Union alumni to attend \An Evening of Jazz\ Thursday, Feb. 18, at Proctor's Theatre, Schenectady. The show begins at 8 p.m. Tickets are $11 and $13 for the show and a reception at Garahan's following the per- formance. Members of the cast wi II attend the recept'i on.

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, February 4, 198B Editorials Letters Night of Infamy Last Saturday night will not soon be forgotten. An incident occurred that has bePn called everything from a fight to a race riot. Rumors have clouded the facts of the incident, but it ls clear that there are many complex aspe.cts that have to be examined when looking at the whole picture. Most distressing is the initial reaction of the student body. Students have been so quick to lay blame and so quick to accuse, in almost every instance without full knowledge of the situation. As the truth was determined, it was remarkable, but not unex- pected, to discover that the vast majority of stories were inaccurate. There exist basically three focal points of the issue: the party in Old Chapel, the fighting, and the \clean-up\ by the Schenectady police. Thomas Asare, a Union student, was responsible for the party ln Old Chapel. He apparently deceived members of the Administration and Food Service as well as blatantly disobeyed the wishes of B.L.A.S. by using their name to obtain Old Chapel. While 1 tis clear that Mr. Asare cannot be held directly responsible for the incident Saturday night, he must be made to answer for the more subtle damage that he did cause. One important victim of Mr. Asare's lack of res.ponsibllity is the reputation of B.L.A.S. both here at Union and on other campuses. Obviously we did not give visiting B.L.A.S. organizations a good impression of what life at Union is like. Ramifications of that damage have already drifted back from nearby campuses like Siena and Russell Sage. B.L.A.S. has also been done a great disservice on the Union campus, because students are not aware of the fact that B.L.A.S. was reportedly not responsible for the party and are blaming the organization for all of the problems that occurred. Ii anything, the opposite situation should exist: the incident that occurred involved non-Union students and Union students. Such a confrontation, although unfortunate, should have brought all of the Union students involved together, instead of causing them to separate by color. Black students at the scene were in the disgraceful position of being associated with the black· troublemakers and fearful of fellow Union students. Eliminating racial prejudice is a monumental task, but it seems that one of the most basic places to start should be by feeling a closeness to all fellow Union students when confronted by an outside group in an unfortunate way such as this. It must be stressed also that the incident that occurred Saturday night was just as likely to occur regardless of skin color, but the fact that it was plainly visible as \black against white\ added fuel to the already burning and senseless fire. If any ·good can come from such an incident, it should happen as a result of all of us examining ourselves and asking how ready we are to allow any in- dividuals at any of our gatherings if we cannot be reasonably sure that their presence will cause no potential problems. That also raises the issue of being responsible .for persons that are invited to potentially volatile gatherings such as parties. Past experience has shown that events such as Camp Union are a good source of unnecessary confrontation, no matter how minor. We must also examine carefully the role of the Schenectady Police Department on this campus. They must be sensitive to the fact that our campus is exactly that, our campus, and that while the Union students that were arrested may have in fact disobeyed the police's requests to \disperse one may assume that curiosity rather than mischief or foul play was the intent of tho!3e tossed into the wagon. More sensitivity should have been displayed on the part of the S.P.D. in arresting students for failure to 'jdisperse\ on their own campus, and conversely, students should have been more aware of the potential danger of the situation and the desire of S.P.D. to end the event as soon as possible. @ Nonviolence is the answer to the crucial political and moral questions o_f our time; the need .for man to overcome oppression and violence without resorting to oppression and violence. Man must evolve .for all human con_flict a method which rejects revenge, aggression and retaliation. The .foundation o.f such a method is love. Martin Luther Kin!{, Jr. Speech accepting Nobel Peace Prize (December 11; 1964) Ho.us~~Wbilemembers''of'Bi:.AS\\' ''HWW\':tnese· •·· · .. · , ·, , ..... · .. ·· have ·· als<t' received personal wilP 'be determined' Will·· be a · . 1Jl'lt>W:D IN 1~ ~1(), QConcor tt~~ bitnsts o~c · Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor Managing EditoP News Editor Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors 1 clf.l L ~~· i'IV!cTt.'O\<' Paul Grossman, NaomiBlartk. Rachel I. Mandel • Diane Pavacic A.J. Brodskr Judi Lee t:nervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner Copy Editor D.C. Owens Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob NortQn Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen. Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher Cartoonist David Neiblum ·Staff Julie Abelman, Joey Beckerman, Norman Bimbach, Sue Bloomberg, Thomas Ching, R()bert S. Driscoll, Sharon Feldman, Donna Getsoil, P .S. Girsdansky, Liesel Golden, MikecHunt, Deborah Levine, Tom Megerian, Rich Mintz, Betsy Modest, · Peter Mohr, Brian Quint, Daniel Rosenfield, Eric W. Ruben, E .J. Sapir, Michael Sharp, Andrew Sobel, Steve Van Ness, Susan Wayne . Business Staff Jennifer Atnler, Evelyn Gurdin Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris, III Photo Staff Janet Guiliano, Robert Tang ·coNCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. . CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB).

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, February 4, 1982 Editorials Letters Night of Infamy Last Saturday night will not soon be forgotten. An incident occurred that has been called everything from a fight to a race riot. Rumors have clouded the facts of the incident, but it is clear that there are many complex. aspects that have to be examined when looking at the whole picture. Most distressing is the initial reaction of the student body. Students have been so quick to lay blame and so quick to accuse, in almost every instance without full knowledge of the situation. As the truth was determined, it was remarkable, but not unex- pected, to discover that the vast majority of stories were inaccurate. There exist basically three focal points of the issue: the party in Old Chapel, the fighting, and the \clean-up\ by the Schenectady police. Thomas Asare, a Union student, was responsible for the party in Old Chapel. He apparently deceived members of the Administration and Food Service as well as blatantly disobeyed the wishes of B.L.A.S. by using their name to obtain Old Chapel. While it is clear that Mr. Asare cannot be held directly responsible for the incident Saturday night, he must be made to answer for the more subtle damage that he did cause. One important victim of Mr. Asare's lack of responsibility is the reputation of B.L.A.S. both here at Union and on other campuses. Obviously we did not give visiting B.L.A.S. organizations a good impression of what life at Union is like. Ramifications of that damage have already drifted back from nearby campuses like Siena and Russell Sage. B.L.A.S. has also been done a great disservice on the Union campus, because students are not aware of the fact that B.L.A.S. was reportedly not responsible for the party and are blaming the organization for all of the problems that occurred. Ii anything, the opposite situation should exist: the incident that occurred involved non- Union students and Union students. Such a confrontation, although unfortunate, should have brought all of the Union students involved together, instead of causing them to separate by color. Black students at the scene were in the disgraceful position of being associated with the black· troublemakers and fearful of fellow Union students. Eliminating racial prejudice is a monumental task, but it seems that one of the most basic places to start should be by feeling a closeness to all fellow Union students when confronted by an outside group in an unfortunate way such as this. It must be stressed also that the incident that occurred Saturday night was just as likely to occur regardless of skin color, but the fact that it was plainly visible as \black against white\ added fuel to the already burning and senseles~ fire. If any good can come from such an incident, it should happen as a result of all of us examining ourselves and asking how ready we are to allow any in- dividuals at any of our gatherings if we cannot be reasonably sure that their presence will cause no potential problems. That also raises the issue of being responsible for persons that are invited to potentially volatile gatherings such as parties. Past experience has shown that events such as Camp Union are a good source of unnecessary confrontation, no matter how minor. We must also examine carefully the role of the Schenectady Police Department on this campus. They must be sensitive to the fact that our campus is exactly that, our campus, and that while the Union students that were arrested may have in fact disobeyed the police's requests to \disperse one may assume that curiosity rather than mischief or foul play was the intent of tho.se tossed into the wagon. More sensitivity should have been displayed on the part of the S.P.D. in arresting students for failure to \disperse\ on their own campus, and conversely, students should have been more aware of the potential danger of the situation and the desire of S.P.D. to end the event as soon as possible. Nonviolence is the answer to the crucial political and moral questions o_f our time; the need .for man to overcome oppression and violence without resorting to oppression and violence. Man must evolve .for all human con_flict a method which re}ects reven{{e, aggression and retaliation. The .foundation o_f such a method is love. Martin Luther King, Jr. Speech accepting Nobel Peace Prize (December 11, 1964) COII1IQelltary Letters Black and Latin Alliance of Students Statement Presumably most members of the college community have been informed of the incidents that occurred last Saturday night. As co--chairmen of the Black and Latin Alliance of Students we feel that a responsibility falh> Qn us to issue a statement in regards w these aforementioned incidents. It should be made elear that the party that was held at the Old Chapel was not a BLAS function. '!'his was . a .. private party in wliidiit was promised that only college students were tn be admitted, unfortunately this policy was not enforced. Because of this many people froJ;n Schenectady came who should not have been there had this policy been enforced. We attribute much of the conflict to the presence of these \out- siders.\ Although the behavior of these people should not be tolerated; the behavior of Union College students involved cannot be condoned. The ac- tions of the Union students is surprising since this behavior is not what ~>ne usually expects from college students. We are aware that the in~ • cident Saturday did not begin as · a racial conflict but evolved into · one. Thus there is a more · serious issue to be addressed and that is the question of why it became a racial conflict. Since we have been at this school we have been acutely aware of underlying racial tensions which have come to the surface since Saturday night. ·For example numerous threatening phone ealls have been received at Hickock · House; while members of BLAS ·have also received personal threats. In order to maintain a healthy atmosphere on campus, we as Union College students cannot tolerate this ignorant behavior. Now it is imperative that the entire Union College com~ munity open their eyes to acknowledge and alter the current state of affairs. · Respectfully, Gregory Grant '82 Luis Diaz-Perez '84 Co-Chailmen Black and Latin AJlianceofStudents A Feasible· .SoJution To the . Editor: Saturday . night's incident in which several Union students sustained . broken jaw~ con\ cussions, lacerati<~ns requiring stitc-hes, and broken teeth points up a serious flaw in the school's method of allocating club funding and responsibility. The fight resulted from a considerable number of non- Union students present at the BLAS party. By 2:30 a.m. (Sunday), many of these people were outside in front of the Rathskellar. Union students passing between parties or going home were subsequently engaged by the group and many vici(msly beaten and kicked (being outnumber~d by a significant amount). Obviously, BLAS was unable to handle the responsibility of hosting a party with<lut causing serious in~ fractions against the rights of others. The content of non· Union people p-resent (at least two of whom were minors) seems to be the underlying problem. These persons' at- titudes were such that they felt motivated to injure Union people. Restrictions. must. be plaeed on future BLAS func~ tions before administrative support and funding can con .. tinue. How these restrictions will be determined will be a -.jt-IOtD IN 1 ~ ~_lo~ ((oncor ~~~~· ·~r. bltnsts o~ i' ·~·~~ ..:.~ ~o-rA~ 0~\' rr:ltl L ~~· Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor Managing Editor News Editor Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors :t...,Ecr;.o'<· Paul Grossman, Naomi Blank Rachel I. Mandel Diane Pavacic A.J. Brodsky JUdi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner Copy Editor D.C. Owens Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Nort9n Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher Cartoonist David Neiblum Staff Julie Abelman, Joey Beckerman, N onnan Birnbach, Sue Bloomberg, Thomas Ching, RobertS. Driscoll, Sharon Feldman, Donna Getson, P .S. Girsdansky, Liesel Golden, Mike Hunt, Deborah Levine, Tom Megerian, Rich Mintz, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Brian Quint, Daniel Rosenfield, Eric W. Ruben, E .J. Sapir, Michael Sharp, Andrew Sobel, Steve Van Ness, Susan Wayne Business Staff Jennifer Amler, Evelyn liurdin Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris, III Photo Staff Janet Guiliano, Robert Tang CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB).

:r:''\ .\}; rttw~~ t'() Q~g; ~,;. ~~ n,.,\' lg\' tli\ ~::=;:::>.::.:··. le lg ~.·' ~a.,, 11'! ty llldl'rfi ·' .. :~·:·;<;~~:::: ts···'·· k ~1 lc ;y ik in ia Is n 1e ~. 1t, It, n, !l, 1e in [I lg lt k ) ' - --------~--------------------------~C~O~N~C~O~B~.D~.~IB~N~Sl~S~,~F~e~b~nm~r~y~~~1~9~8~$--------------------------------·~age9 COlllll1eQtary Letters Editorials Commentary: No. You Can't! By DANIEL E. ROSENFIELD C1Jllllllllist Americans are indeed a strange lot. They value freedom above all else and yet they would use legjslation as a cure- all for most of society's problems, thereby limiting the f.reedom .of all. Sometimes it is important, laws against drunken driving have a positive social value-even though they limit freedom. However, some issues are not best handled by law. Consider tile people in Texas who have decided they don't want pinball arcades in their town. If people don't want the games it should be their choice not to have tllem in the town, or should it? At what point do the anti-pinball people tread on the rights of the pinball arcade owners? What about those townspeople who like pinball, aren't their freedoms being abridged also? Of course they are, especially when we con- sider the real issue. It seems that school children have been spending most of their free time at the arcade, spending all of their money (yes, even their lunch money) playing the games-oh horrors! Well, maybe so, certainly the parents have a legitimate problem. The answer is simply remove the games-oh, double horrors! ~hat about the Commentary: parents who think that pinball isn't so bad? What about the business that is trying to earn an honest dollar? Do those parents really think that they can possibly legislate all social ills out of existence? If they do, how come I can easily obtain drugs, haven't they been legislated out of existence? A long time ago I learned that a quarter could be spent but once, my parents taught me, they do not do it by removing all things that I could have pos.sibly bought that they did not ap- prove of, and they didn't read it to me out of the federal codes. They did give me quite a lot of attentionand they did discipline me. When I spent money on something that they did not approve of I heard about it, sometimes quite bluntly. Now and again, I still hear about it. If nothing else, at least I know that my parents still care, and I did learn the value that my parents wanted me to leam. Well, that's terrific, now everyone must think that I'm just fantastic! However, that's not the point (no matter how true l. The point is parents that want to instill in their children certain values should do so by the judicious use of attention and discipline especially the word or, perhaps better, command, no! Racism-Does it Exist? By MARTY SANDS Columnist As a student of Union College, I have recently been awakened to a problem that has been festering on campus-racism. Although many students are unaware of tlle severity of this problem, the future of it leaves nothing desirable. Prior to attending college, I was convinced that my un- dergraduate years would be a scholarly experience. It was my impression that college was designed to foster maturity and promote intelligence. How then can a higllly intellectual community, such as Union, have a problem dealing with racisii.l? College is for the above- average citizen who aspires to .further his-ller mental and social growth. Therefore, why should discrimination clearly exist and inter-fere with life at a scholarly institution (Union) that is manifestly opposed to ignorance? Speaking fCJr myself, being raised in a non-racial at- mosphere that subscribes to all people as being created equal, this problem seems foolish. Furthermore, it seems primitive for the leaders of our iiD future society to occupy their time singling out individuals and criticizing them on the basis of race,· creed, or color. On our campus, there are specific minorities that are continuously oppressed. Although these oppressed persons are certainly not above ridicule, it seems unnecessary to label people on the basis of their heritage or background. All too often, a black person (student) will walk into a party at Union and forget his racial difference. Then, in the midst of social merriment, a racial slur such as \nigger\ is directed towards that harmless black student for no apparent reason. The person who expresses himself in this fashion will usually hide. Frequently, these racial remarks are said simply to attract attention. But is it really necessary for it to be said at all? This problem has existed in our.society for centuries and it has exemplified that man has always needed a scapegoat. It is my contention that Union really does not need one. Is it really necessary for Union to involve itself with such a primitive notion? I certainly hope not. Letters to the Editor must be typed and subrraitted by 7 p.m. Tuesday night.

~hy as lOt or. ;he ffiw to he ly, ·sa •tw tin o.ts in Its f!lw ng tb he ng ;y. a 1n· h.e n. de he ,ts or :ly llY ed a ly, ne ty n~ of Ill .. lSt 'S) o.g itM ~It [)n be tc~ \Te ~n .. ns a tk el ic lY tk in ia is lS m m er m 1e n, It, )t, n, ~1. 1e in II lg :It •k IX 1e ~: ~d ) ' - ------------------------------------~C~O~N~C~O~R~D~IE~N~S~JS~,~F~eb~rua~~r~y~4~,~1;~9~82~--------------------------------~age9 tough task involving many options for preventive policy decisions. What must be cautioned against is a reac~ tionary response from the administration; that is$ a far- reaching policy plan that would ~strict (and thus punish) other organizations on camplls. Fraternity fun(!tions, dorm· spMSOred activities, and club events bave been able to exist without serious problems withln the college's present guidelirles. To alter tbmr freedom due t~ BLAB's lack of respo_nsibility n:r ability to control functions would be destructive to all student activities while ·at· tending Union, Further, campus-wide restrictions would form a consolidated bitterne-s~ towards BLAS from all of th~ campus; the sanctions wolll<i have a ready .. made scapeg~at. Investiga.tioll and,act.ion must be undertaken. BLAS' s parties generally inelude invitations t<> BLAS members in .surrounding schools. Also, whether planned . or not, the parties draw a number of non .. students from the area. Concentrating on tllis aspect of the function could provide ~ feasible solution with minimal impact and eon· troversy for the rest of camptlS. Sincerely, John Wheeler Editor's Note Mr. Wheeler has made a dangerous err-or that can be attributed to nothing more than human nature. He based all of the informatloo in his letter e-n facts that be was obvlomly unsure of. They are, in faet~ . incorrect. BLAS apparently bad mthing whatsoever to do wlth the paftY last Saturday Dight~ except that many of its mem- bers were In attendance. BLAS showed no lack of resp()n. · sibility; they could not possibly take responsibility for a pal'ty wbieh . was not theirs. Th.e Letters members of BLAS . ean be blamed for wllat happened last Saturday allly io the context of their beJng UnJon College students, and must share guilt wfth everyone and anyone else who was m attendae.ce at any of tile parties tbat eveaing. ln any eve11t, tb.e above letter is a glaring euunple ef ibe danger btwlved when fahle rumor .and goEsJp: are taken as fact. Preiudice to Blome To the students and faculty of Union College: This letter is in regard to the fight that took place on campus Saturday, January 30. The · purpose of this letter is not to expose the ••real truth'' I do not know the \real truth.\ In fact, I have heard at least a dozen different true acC<Junts of how this fight began. However, what I do know is that this fight had absolutely nothing to do with either the fraternity Phi Gamma Delta, or the sorority Sigma Delta Tau, who were ooth having parties that night. The . Schenectady Gazette quoted Sgt. William Siler who said that 'two parties were in pr<Jgress on the campus, one at a sorority house, the other at a fraternity. n Sgt. Siler claimed, '~Somewhere in the middle,. I guess they met. •• I think that Sgt. Siler and anyone who believes this should get their story straight. First of all, the fight t(lok place near the Skellar, whicll obviously is in the opposite direction of the area between Fiji and SDT. Furthermore, no one from .either Fiji or SDT was involved in the fight, and there was no fighting in either SDT or Fiji. In additiQn, Siler's comment that \too much partyingn might have been one cause for the disturbance is quite naive. Saturday night was nQt the first night that there has been a lot of Letters Editorials partying on campus. I think it's time for every<Jne to face up to reality; like most, if n<Jt all, of this country~ the race relations at Union College stink. At best, they are non*6xistent. In my opinion, it is irrelevant Whether those involved in the fight are Union students or not. What I think is imPf}rtant is that this fight reflects the true attitudes of people concerning people of a different race. It is prejudical beliefs and attitudes that caused this fight, not alcohol. ' Sincerely Julie Wildman I Winter Carnival Reevaluated To the Editors: In response to last week's letter to the Editors, \Winter Carnival Supported,, I would just like to inform the campus community that the SOCIAL COMMITTEE was mainly responsible for organizing WINTER CARNIVAL. Though the Resident Advisors, dorm cauncil members, and student forum were cooperative in the event, it was also the SOCIAL COMMITTEE that contributed their time and efforts to the carnival's success. Not only did the SOCIAL COMMITTEE make arrangements with Budweiser and Muscular Dystrophy, but the majnrity of the funds were financed by the SOCIAL COMMITTEE. This letter was not written with malicious intent, but rather to acknowledge all those who worked hard to make WINTER CARNIVAL a memorable event. We hope this year's WINTER CARNIVAL will set a precedent for years to come. Sincerely, Rich Tanenbaum Darcy Hammerman Co-Chairpersons of the Social Committee No. You Can't! By DANIEL E. ROSENFIELD Columnist Americans are indeed a strange lot. They value freedom above all else and yet they would use legislation as a cure- all for most of society's problems, thereby limiting the £reedom of all. Sometimes it is important, laws against drunken driving have a positive social value-even though they limit freedom. However, some issues are not best handled by law. Consider the people iN Texas who have decided they don't want pinball arcades in their town. If people don't want the games it should be their choice not to J:lave them in the town, or should it? At what point do the anti-pinball people tread on the rights of the pinball arcade owners? What a bout those townspeople who like pinball, aren't their freedoms being abridged also? Of course they are, especially when we con- sider the real issue. It seems that sch()ol children have been spending most of their free time at the arcade, spending aH of their money (yes, even their lunch money) playing the games-oh horrors! Well, maybe so, certainly the parents have a legitimate problem. The answer is simply remove the games-oh, double horrors! What about the Commentary: parents who think that pinball isn't so bad? What abo11t the busiNess that is trying to earn an honest dnllar? Do those parents really think that they can possibly legislate all social ills out of existence? If they do, how come I can easily obtain drugs, haven't they been legislated out of existence? A long time ago I learned that a quarter could be spent but once, my parents taught me, they do not de it by removing all things that I could have possibly bought that they did not ap- prove of, and they didn't read it to me out of the federal codes. They did give me quite a lot of attention and they did discipline me. When 1 spent money on something that they did not approve of I heard about it, sometimes quite bluntly. Now and again, I still hear about it. If nothing else, at least I know that my parents still care, and I did learn the value that my parents wanted me to learn. Well, that's terrific, now everyone must think that I'm just fantastic! However, that's not the point (no matter how true). The point is parents that want to instill in their children certain values should do so by the judicious use of attention and discipline especially the word or, perhaps better, corrunand, no! Racism-Does it Exist? By MARTY SANDS Columnist As a student of Union College, I have recently been awakened to a problem that has been festering on campus-racism. Although many students are unaware of the severity of this problem, the future of it leaves nothing desirable. Prior to attending college, I was convinced that my un- dergraduate years would be a scholarly experience. It was my impression that college was designed to foster maturity and promote intelligence. How then can a highly intellectual corrummity, such as Union, have a problem dealing with racism? College is for the above- average citizen who aspires to further his-her mental and social growth. Therefore, why should discriminati()n clearly exist and interfere with life at a scholarly institution (Union) that is manifestly opposed to ignorance? Speaking for myself, being raised in a non-racial at- mosphere that subscribes to all people as being created equal, this problem seems foolish. Furthermore, it seems primitive for the leaders of our future society to occupy their time singling out individuals and criticizing them on the basis of race, creed, or color. On our campus, there are specific minorities that are continuously oppressed. Although these oppressed persons are certainly not above ridicule, it seems unnecessary to label people on the basis of their heritage or background. All too often, a black person (student) will walk into a party at Union and forget his racial difference. Then, in the midst of social merriment, a racial slur such as \nigger\ is directed towards that harmless black student for no apparent reason. The person who expresses himself in this fashion will usually hide. Frequently, these racial remarks are said simply to attract attention. But i.s it really necessary for it to be said at all? This problem has eristed in our society for centuries and it has exemplified that man has always needed a scapegoat. It is my contention that Union really does not need one. Is it really necessary for Union to involve itself with such a primitive notion? I certainly hope not. Letters to the Editor must be typed and submitted by 7 p.m. Tuesday night.

Page 10 OONOORDIENSIS, February -4,. 198$ auditorium of the Emma Willard · School, Pawling Avenue, Troy, New York. Questionnaires will be ran- domly distributed to Union College undergraduates in early February. The results of this · /\ research wiH be published early \ c . , next term in the Concordy. ·• : \ · Anonymity is guaranteed. .. ~.rf, Cooperation and participation of the trip is $12 for bus and Uft leaving at 4:15 Tuesday af- ternoon and returning at around midnight. Meeting on Sunday at 9:00p.m. in Fox Lounge. The Department of Physics is now conducting the third-year review of Professor Gary Reich. Members of the campus community familiar with his work are invited to send their written comments to Professor Frank Titus, Department Chairman, Science and Engineering Center, Room N 308. Dr. Suzan Edward, Assistant Professor of Astronomy at Smith College in North Hamp- ton and a member of the Five College Astronomical Depart- ment will speak on \The Birth of a Star\. General N·ottices • : · · by the student body in the questionnaire would be greatly appreciated. Please refer to Concordy article on page 5 .for more information. Spring Break '82 equipped, air conditioned deluxe motorcoach, 7 nights at Qu(llity Inn Reef (tax .included). Deposit of $50 must be in to Mrs. Marra at Student Affairs. (Includes $25 damage deposit). Capacity is 48 people; fir,st come, first served basis. F()r more information call: Steve Brown at 370-6635 or Mrs. Marra at 370-:6118, \Aggression between Men and Women at Union CoUege; Does U exist?\ Professor Martha Huggins' \Methods in Social Research\ class is examining the above question. Gay Group Trip to Albany! (Central Ave.) Saturday, Feb. 13 at 11:30 p.m. Also look for NY City News-alive in the library. For more details call Dana 6860. Our box nwnber is 2575. Pre-Health Society Attention juniors interested in applying to medical school. Come to the Pre-Health Society meeting on Tuesday February 9 and hear Dr. Roth speak about MCATs, MCATcourses and how to apply tq_ schools. Come to Room SS115 at either 5:00 or 7:00. Ceteris Paribus The Capital District Liber- tarian Speakers Forum, in cooperation with Ceteris Paribus, the Union College Economic Club, is sponsoring a free markets economics course. The first lecture will be given Wednesday, February 10, at 7:30 P.M. in Room 115. of the Union College Social Sciences Building, and will continue for the next four consecutive Wednesday evenings. 0~ <fbe Gre~k frc:Qt IFC Spring picnic . A tentative date of Sunday, May 23, has been set for the IFC Spring picnic. Contact inter- fraternity council represen- tatives for additional in- formation. Phi Sigma Kappa There will be a party at Phi Sigma Kappa on Sat., Feb. 6 featuring \The Targets/' Phi Delta Theta On Saturday, Feb. 6 Phi Delta Theta will be having its annual \Tacos and Tequilla\ party. Want good food at good prices? Tty the food CO-oJr Organic Options. For in- formation call 37~277. Anyone interested in a ski trip to J iminy Peak on Tuesday night February 9, is asked to contact Mark at 6667 or Steve or Ted at 6635 by Sunday. The cost These college level lectures are open to the public and are presented on Video tape featuring Rutgers University Professor Richard Ebeling, whose PhD dissertation is on \The Economics or Ludwig Von Mises\. The course is taught from the perspective of the \Austrian school of economics\ currently-receiving a revival of interest at universities around the country, and which gave rise to the school's best known advocate, Nobel prize winner, Friedrich Von Hayek. The second lecture in the \SKYWATCH IV\ series on astronomy sponsored by Dudley Observatory will be presented on Thursday evening, February 11, 1982 at 7:30 P.M. in the Designs and Logo-Use your imagination! ! Turn designs and logo in to Mrs. Marra. Big Brother and Big Sister On Sunday, Feb. 7, there will be a Big Brother, Big Sister meeting from 1~3 in Strauss Lounge. After a cold winter in Schenectady, how does Florida sound? 7 days and 7 nights in Daytona .Beach with students from Union and Skidmore Colleges, March 10-28. The price is $239 for round trip express transportation on a lavoratory FIL,MS INCORPORATED A story of envythatred, friendship, triumph, and love. .Jt --~~ Women's Week Committee The Women's Week Com- mittee wants your designs for t- shirts for women's week 1982. Don J. Kauth, Director of Education, Foundation for Accounting Education will present a colloquium entitled Continuing Professional Education on Thursday~ February 4, 1982-3:45 P.M. in Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College, offered by Administrative and Presented by Union College. Film Committee Tues., Feb. 9 at 7, 9, and 11:00 Engineering Systems. UPCOMING WORKSHOPS CAREERS IN HUMAN SERVICES PANEL Wednesday, February 10, 7:00p.m., Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall Professionals discuss what their jobs are like day-to-day, what their career paths have been, and talk about career options in their field All are Welcome Sign up in advance in the Career Center Office CAREER OBSERVATION DAY WILL STRIKE AGAIN February 25 , SAVE THE DATE Watch for more details to come. SENIORS! WE NEED YOUR HELP! The Career Center is continually trying to update our resource library, which includes graduate school catalogs. SAVE THOSE.YOU NO WNGER NEED! We can add them to our library for future assistance to fellow students. Please, lend us a hand, give us a call or stop by and drop off the catalogs. We appreciate any assistance you can give us. Thanks! Interested in Working on the BUSINESS STAFF? Contact DIANNE at x6502 INVITE YOUR PARENTS & MAKE RESEI{VATIONS NOW!! For more Information, ca II Jane Wood, AssistanfDean of Stude~ts, x6l76, x6043. A list of hotel-motel accommodations is available In her office. . • ' (

Page 10 CONOORDIENSIS, February 4, 198~ • Ices auditorium of the Emma Willard School, Pawling Avenue, Troy, New York. \ . Questionnaires will be ran- domly distributed to Union College Wldergraduates in early February. The results of this . f\\ research will be published early ·· c \ next term in the Concordy. ·• ; \' Anonymity is guaranteed. ..:_.~ Cooperation and participation of the trip is $12 for bus and lift leaving at 4: 15 Tuesday af- ternoon and returning at around midnight. Meeting on SWlday at 9:00p.m. in Fox Lounge. The Department of Physics is now conducting the third-year review of Professor Gary Reich. Members of the campus community familiar with his work are invited to send their wr·itten comments to Professor Frank Titus, Department Chairman, Science and Engineering Center, Roam N 308. Dr. Suzan Edward, Assistant Professor of Astronomy at Smith College in North Hamp- ton and a member of the Five College Astronomical Depart- ment will speak oa ''The Birth of a Star\. \... •• • 0 ~ \' Joe v .---.. 0'\\'\o ~ \\\ ~ ' General N,ottices · by the student body in the questionnaire would be greatly appreciated. Please refer to Concordy article on page 5 for more information. Spring Break '82 equipped, ai1r conditioned deluxe motorcoach, 7 nights at Quality Inn Reef (tax: included). Deposit of $50 must be in to Mrs. Marra at Student Affairs. (lnch:~des $25 damage deposit). Capacity is 48 people; first come, first served basis. For more information call: Steve Brown at 370-6635 or Mrs. Marra at 37(};.6H8. \Aggression bet ween Men and Women at Union College; Does it exist?\ Professor Martha Huggins' \Methods in Social Research\ class is examining the above question. Gay Group Trip to Albany! (Central Ave.) Saturday, Feb. 13 at 11:30 p.m. Also look for NY City News-alive in the library. For more details call Dana 6860. Our box number is 2575. Pre-Health Society Attention juniors interested in applying to medical school. Come to the Pre-Health Society meeting on Tuesday February 9 and hear Dr. Roth speak about MCATs, MCAT courses and how to apply tQ. schools. Come to Room SS115 at either 5:00 or 7:00. Ceteris Paribus The Capital District Liber- tarian Speakers Forum, in cooperation with Ceteris Paribus, the Union College Econ()mic Club, is sponsoring a free markets economics course. The first lecture will be given Wednesday, February 10, at 7:30 P.M. in Room 115. of the Union College Social Sciences Building, and will continue for the next four consecutive Wednesday evenings. Oq fbe Greek fra11t IFC Spring picnic A tentative date of Sunday, May 23, has been set for the IFC Spring picnic. Contact inter~ fraternity council represen- tatives for additional in- formation. Phi Sigma Kappa There will be a party at Phi Sigma Kappa on Sat., Feb. 6 featuring \The Targets.\ Phi Delta Theta On Saturday, Feb. 6 Phi Delta Theta will be having its annual ''Tacos and Tequilla\ party. Want good food at good prices? Try the food Co-op- Organic OpUons. For in- formation call 370-0277. Anyone interested in a ski trip to Jiminy Peak on Tuesday night February 9, is asked to contact Mark at 6667 or Steve or Ted at 6635 by Sunday. The cost The second lecture in the \SKYWATCH IV\ series on astronomy sponsored by Dudley Observatory will be presented on Thursday evening, February 11, 1982 at 7:30 P.M. in the After a cold winter in Schenectady, how does Florida sound? 7 days and 7 nights in Daytona Beach with students from Urlion and Skidmore Colleges, March 10·28. The price is $239 for round trip express transportation on a lavoratory A story l)f ~nvy,-hatred, friendship, tri11m.ph, .arullove. These college level lectures are open to the public and are presented on Video tape featuring Rutgers University Professor Richard Ebeling, whose PhD dissertation is on \The Economics or Ludwig Von Mises\. The course is taught from the perspective of the \Austrian school of economics\ currently receiving a revival of interest at universities around the country, and which gave rise to the school's best known advocate, Nobel prize winner, Friedrich Von Hayek. Designs and Logo-Use your imagination! ! Turn designs and logo in to Mrs. Marra. Big Brother and Big Sister On Sunday, Feb. 7, there will be a Big Brother, Big Sister meeting from 1-3 in Strauss Lounge. Don J. Kauth, Director of Education, Foundation for Accounting Education will present a colloquium entitled Continuing Professional Education on Thursday, .. it -~ FIL;MS INCORPORATED Women's Week Committee The Women's Week Com- mittee wants your designs for t- shirts for women's week 1982. February 4, 1982-3:45 P.M. in Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College, offered by Administrative and Presented by Union College Film Committee Tues., Feb. 9at7,9,and 11:00 Engineering Systems. UPCOMING WORKSHOPS CAREERS IN HUMAN SERVICES PANEL Wednesday, February 10,7:00 p.m., Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall Professionals discuss what their jobs are like day-to-day, what their career paths have been, and talk about career options in their field All are Welcome Sign up in advance in the Career Center Office CAREER OBSERVATION DAY WILL STRIKE AGAIN February25 SAVE THEDA TE Watch for more details to come. SENIORS! WE NEED YOUR HELP! The Career Center is continually trying to update our resourctl library, which includes graduate school catalogs. SAVE THOSE YOU NO LONGER NEED! We can add them to our library for future assistance to fellow students. Please, lend us a hand, give us a call or stop by and drop off the catalogs. We appreciate any assistance you can give us. Thanks! Interested in Working on the BUSINESS STAFF? Contact DIANNE at x6502 INVITE YOUR PARENTS & MAKE RESERVATIONS NOW!! For more information, call Jane Wood, Assistant Dean of Students, x6l/6, x6043. A list of hotel-motel accommodations is available in her office. ' ' f I

p ll, ... \ ~~ ~i. ' ·~ ~·, . ~ Mrs. fii:st For Mrs. OONCORDlENSISJ February 4J 198~ e Ices \'''.·Pi· .. ' -.-- ,, - \ . : n~p?t ·. wo~cy . Page 11 Kellig, does it matter which end you start at? S. and M. Champ-Happy Anniversary on~ week late! I Love You- Chief You're A .. ) on the in Sk.ineetoady to t~ PIJOU Jtl tb~ '( .. · , .level iit J~ssiea Bra«<\sky! Where Nairobi-Happy Birthday! eu• Have a super year l My love have you_ .. noon? !?1? I. know my always. Gail phone isn't working, but even I . ____ __;_ ___ _ · W:orkout. emlld figllre that out. If I don~t Naomi-Ditto the above. w. see yau soon, rm go-ing to write Union College Film Committee Presents: The Black & Latin Alliance of Students at Union College presents 6._fi-!..l.-'..>-J_._-I... I. • I '?i ~J.ti.~ .... - .,,.,., \'*'\' ..,.,.JC' is the comedy \'NINE TO ru·a.. y, 1llaugh hit of the seas~n. ou your helid ojf. CBS RADIO -Jeffrey Lyvns, \'NINE- TO FIVE' h~t~: ::!on. I1S of any rnoo•e d laug d Lily Tomlin an Jane \Foil ~. . ·. . Dolly Parton !!\ake a. terrific team. · -KathiE:en Carroll, NEW YORK DAILY NEWS JANE FONDA LILY TOMLIN DOLLY PARTON ' AN !PC FILMS PRODUCTION OF A CD LIN HIGGINS PICTl!Rt NINE TO FIVE DABNEY COLEMAN· ELIZABETH WILSON \\'STERLING HAYDEN\' The Chatrmc~n t1! !he Bt~,Jrd Feb. S,6,and7at7,9,and 11:00 \Black Education; In Perspective'' with guest speaker Dra Betty Schabazz the widow of the late Civi I, Rights leader Malcom X Tuesday, February9, 1982 at 8 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel at Union College Tickets: On sale at the Union College Box Office, Carnegie Hall, Union College. DONATION: $2.00for college students, faculty & staff of any college (with proper 1.0.). $3.00 for adults 21 & over. WRUC 90.9 fm • •tereo The Every Thursday Night Concert Series 11:30 pm with .BiU Singer This week: The Police -Friday Nights 5-8 pm: Soul-Disco w/Kevin Bradford -Sunday 11:30 am-2 pm Classical - -JAZZ every weekday from 12:30 - 2 pm -SPORTS: Hockey vs .. Holy Cross Sat. Night 8 pm -The Neglected Album Hour w/Mike Winikofl Sunday at midnight TRIVIA IS COMING WR UC's Annual Trivia Contest Takes place on Feb. 14, 21, 28on Sunday nights from9-11 ... ListentoWRUCfordetails SEND IN YOUR v A L E N T I N E' s D A y PERSONA LSI GOOD GRIEFl \PEANUTS\ IS IN THE COMICS SECTION TODA'1'. 1

at Mrs. first For Mrs. I OONOORDIENSI8, February 4, 1982 , .. . ' \.. ·. . ' ~\ .:;.0 '4 .~ \~·\\ Ness, Smanamia, Mahlene, Lynnti, Share-all, Laze11e, Koz, Jaymo, Tepee,S.G., Rabobbins, etc. (dontt be mad if I f()rgot you): GIVE IT TO ME BABY! ! P .S. Death ear pull$ through in the clutch. GREEN is a gr-eat color. Please Ctlme over and be just a tad lzy 1 popcorn includ:ed. Real soon. -Your Coach RAT-Ho*' has the ice fishing been? GRK --~----~-~ Kelli, Does it matter which You guys*-REDRUM, end you st;irt at? -8. and .M. REDRUM! Share-alb Too ~ much butter, but I enjo_yed nestling daring the scary scenes. I love being your sister, you guys!! Delta love. Suzie Q. i Der Apparat ist ntcht scharf eingestellt. •• Rudolf and Friend Schleify- You are the true love of my life . . . I can't wait tmtil Valentinets Day •.. What a . punim. Love always, Cindy Please Snooks (co·nymph); \. . . learn~ feel, change~ grow, love, . .. live . ·.\ -Thanks- Love, C.S. Jill-Haven't seen Rudy's boars lately. Maybe he's having problems. Do you think we should lend him a garden hose and our water bed? Rachel I earry your heart with me (I carry it in my heart) Steven Dear Aaron (last name Union College Film Committee Presents: 6.-n-'.l-'..l--'...>--~ '- h • t I ~~L l ~ ~ ~ ; t> .. ,._ t,itt,tttit'*'~\' E. is the comedy \'NINE TO FIV You'll laugh hit of the seas~n. your head off. RADIO -Jeffrey Lyons. CBS ,.. ,.,;o• has the best \'NINE TO F,.,,._. . this season. h ·\any motJte d Jaug s 0 J L'l Tomlin an Jane Fonda. t y k Dolly Parton ~a e a terrific team. K thleen Carroll. -NEW YORK DAILY NEWS JANE FONDA LILY TOMLIN DOLLY PARTON \'11'1 111\·I'I'R<lllll 1111,111 \tllli'•.J!IIil.l'<'l'!lll Rl NINE TO FIVE I l \B.._ I·\ c Ill I· \1 \''·II 1/ \Ill I II \\II \ol J\ ,. ,•\ II H. I !\( 1 }I\\ [)I\ .!'- I th ( h_ur 11•11! ••I ffll B·•.dd Feb.5,6,and 7at7,9,andll:OO e Ices withheld)-lf you have any objections to these personals, you know who to talk to. First and second floor could kill you at Othello. P.S. Leather and lace? Interesting. Kevin Wolf-If Lisa only knew yo-ur more colorful side, you charmer, you! First im~ pressions are usually wrong. but in your case we'll make an exception. Don't call us, we won't eall yoa. MFB-Hope y~u had a nice weekend. See yGu at the Publ Love, YFC Carrie-Ann: Don't worry about a thing. You're A·l on the jikebox, and in Skinectoady to boot! 1 Meet at noon in the BLACK HOlE (lower level of course!) & things will work out. Love XXXXXXX:XX • EWR: 450 days and I f'mally remembered! Smile baby! EW \Yeaht) por el amor!! Luis-I hope you are working hard in Albany .•. I can't wait till Valentines day ... You're a \Genius of Love\ that's always \One toke'' ahead . . . Love Cleopatra-P.S. This was a colaboration 1 Carrie-Anne (2); Not only do I have tests to study for, but it's only 'till Sunday. Call Mary, and she'll make everything all· right. (if she don't ... & I'm a pacifist to boot!) I LOVE YOUW-ALLMYHEART! YYYYYYYYYYYYYY Jessica Braginsky! Where have you been?! ?1? I know my phone isn't working, but even I could figure that out. If I don't see you soon, I'm going to write The Black & Latin Alliance of Students at Union College presents \Black Education; In Perspective'' with guest speaker Dr. Betty Schabazz the widow of the late Civil Rights leader Malcom X Tuesday, February 9, 1982 at 8 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel at Union College Tickets: On sale at the Union College Box Office, Carnegie Hall, Union College. DONATION: $2.00 for college students, faculty & staff of any college (with proper I. D.). $3.00 for adults 21 & over. ~The Every Thursday Night Concert Series 11:30 pm with Bill Singer This week: The Police -Friday Nights 5m8 pm: Soul-Disco w /Kevin Bradford -Sunday 11:30 am-2 pm Classical -JAZZ every weekday from 12:30 - 2 pm -SPORTS: Hockey vs. Holy Cross Sat. Night 8 pm -The Neglected Al'bum Hour w/Mike Winikoff Su.nday at midnight TRIVIA IS COMING WRUC's Annual Trivia Contest Takes place on Feb. 14, 21, 28on Sunday nights from 9-11 ... ListentoWRUCfor details Page 11 you out of my will! I'm serious this time! 14wit2-8~ Kleinie: I'm sorry. Please forgive me. Just wait until we hit Boston Spring Term. I Love you! Love, little Doodie Sue, Maybe Gina, Mary, Evelyn, Osgood, Luria, and Smith died of glove anasthesia? Jill Kellig, does it matter which end you start at? S. and M. Champ-Happy Anniversary one week late! I Love You- Chief Nairobi-Happy Birthday! Have a super year! My love always. Gail Naomi-Ditto the above. W. SEND IN YOUR v A L E N T I N Er s D A y PERSONALS! SOOD GRIEF I PEANUTS\ IS IN THE COMICS SECTION TODAY' w 0

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, February 4, 1982 Ho~ophobia Down (CPS)-Gay student groups at two large campuses have won major victories since the start of the new term, but anti-gay sentiment flared at a third school when a fraternity suspended one of its members for being a homosexual In Austin, Texas, home of the University of Texas, 63 percent of the electorate vetoed a measure that would have allowed landlords to- deny housing to people on the basis of sexual preference. As the bitterly-fought Austin election ended, the Oklahoma Supreme Court ruled the University of Oklahoma had erred in denying the Gay Activist Alliance official recognition as a campus organization. The GAA has been trying to gain recognition since 1976. \This wh-ole. process has taken so long that a lot of people have been discouraged and dropped out of the movement,:• says Steve Keller, the GAA's acting president. But Keller says there is still much anti-gay sentiment at the Norman campus. \Our flyers and posters have the shortest lifetime on campus of any groups. People will just walk by and tear them up.\ Keller says that at a recent GAA meeting, \about 30 people showed up and shouted ob- scenities and threw fireworks.\ In light of the recent court victory, however, Keller is more optimistic. \In general, the campus has gotten used to us.\ But at Michigan State, which is one of the few colleges to officially forbid· discrimination on the basis of sexual habits, the Delta Sigma Phi fraternity in early Janu?ry suspended a brother after discovering the student was also a member of the Lesbian-Gay Alliance. MSU Intrafratemity Council Vice President Gary Naeyaert says the university will impose sanctions on the house if it refuses to obey the anti- discrimination rule and re- admit the student. \I can easily see the policy being upheld,\ N aeyaert says. \My greatest concern is that this action not be construed as typical of the greek system at MSU.\ Lesbian-Gay Alliance spokesman Matt Gatson agrees the campus is generally \a leader in human rights and equal opporttmity,\ though he notes that of an estimated 2500 MSU gays, only about 300 are active in his organization. Some, he says, are still afraid of being harassed if they join. The University of Denver- among others--refused to recognize a gay student group because some student senators deemed it improper to give any form of assent to \they gay lifestyle.\ The University of San Francisco refused to let a national women's group hold a conference on the campus because the group admitted lesbian members. Some 20 University of Kansas students disrupted a Gay Services of Kansas dance last spring, while Youngstown State University senators refused to give 145 to a campus women's group that wanted to screen a film called \Women Loving Women.\ But a number of Florida student governments recently passed resolutions endorsing non-marital sex in order to force a court test of a new state law that would stop funding any campus that recognizes a gay student group. In a March precedent to the January Oklahoma ruling, a Washington, D.C. court determined 'Georgetown University could not legally bar recognition of a gay student group there. In Austin in mid-January, a fundmentalist group called the Austin Citizens for Decency sponsored the now-defeated measure letting landlords keep gays out of their buildings on the grounds that gay activists were trying to take over the city government. ''D bb. D D ·11 '' · e 1e •· oes · a· as Raises Campus Pressure (CPS)-ln the sixties it was \I Am Curious Yell ow.'' The seventies ushered in worthy successors like \The Story of 0,\ ''Deep Throat,\ and ''The Devil in Miss Jones.'' And now there's ''Debbie Does Dallas.\ As this year's top contender for the movie most often banned from colleges, this 1979 story of a high .school cheerleader has stirred campuses as few others. One reason may be that \Debbie\ is in many senses of the word a collegiate movie. It was produced by a company named School Days Films. It was partially (and surrep- titiously) filmed on a college campus. It is aimed at college- aged audiences. It is most often often shown on campuses. And its most ardent critics and steadiest customers are now college students. ''Probably next to 'Deep Throat,.' 'Debbie Does Dallas' has the most notoriety of any film we carry,\ says Peter Senseney of SRO Enter- tainment, ex:clusive distributors of \Debbie\ and other x-rated films. It has in fact probably been responsible for more student protests and administrative headaches than any .film in recent history. It is also one of the most reliable money- makers on the college film circuit, Senseney asserrts. The fihn's tradition of kicking 'll:P trouble on campus started long before it was ever released. In the sununer of 1978, a group of filmmakers asked to use Pratt Institute's Brooklyn campus to film an instructional movie about libraries. Pratt administrators discovered only later the filmmakers were actually staging nwnerous sex scenes for \Debbie Does Dallas,\ using Pratt's turn-of- the-century architecture as a backdrop. The finished movie contains 13 minutes of explicit sexual encounters at Pratt's library and gym, including a group sex scene in the institute's sauna. Needless to say, \Debbie\ isn't very popular at Pratt. But the skin flick isn't exactly welcome at some other cam- puses, either. On those cam- puses, unlike ''Throat,\ \Curious Yellow\ and other predecessors in controversy, administrators have banned \Debbie\ only after vigorous student protest. In the past, Grant Res,earch Continued from page 4 others do not have much effect at all. On must appreciate that in order to alter certain con- ditions within the cell without causing its destruction at the . same time, microsurgical techniques must be utilized. Professor Rappaport utilizes the grants not only to equip and run his lab at Union, where he is studying mitiosis in Amoebas, but to also fund the large quantity of research which he does at various marine biology laboratories. Says he, \Most of the experiments in this field have been done on cleaving eggs . . . '' which warrants the • ·····-· need to work in these marine labs. Rappaport, whose wife works with him as a technician, has also utilized laboratories at other universities such as Stanford and Duke to aid in his work. In· addition, he attends international con\'l9ntions where he exchanges his research findings with those of Japanese researchers in the same field. He is, himself, one of only three other Americans doing this kind of work. Next, a report on the work of Professors Twitty Styles and Henry Butzel, Jr. . . .. -- u u\\\ Letters- Pages 8-9 ......,.._....- w - rft:- ., .. administrators took the lead in censorship. In 1980, \Debbie\ was done in at the State University of New Y ork.Stony Brook when the vice chancellor of students, responding to numerous st11dent ,protests, banned it. . Yet ''Debbie\ seems to show at other campuses repeatedly without causing much comment at all. · \It all depends on the at- mosphere of the campus,\ Senseney says. 'Debbie' has played at such schools as Johns Hopkins, the State University of New York at Albany and the University of Colorado at Boulder without ' any problems.\ Senseney wasn't that lucky at the University of Maryland- Baltimore, where students are rarely characterized as \conservative.\ ''I wouldn't try to show it again,\ says Terry Nolan, UMBC student government president. \Everything was copesetic until \Debbie' arrived here.\ UMBC administrators can· celed the film the day it was scheduled to play last fall, claiming it might violate Maryland anti-obscenity laws. But student officials had to accept full liability for showing \Debbie and agree to refund the ticket price to anyone who objected to the goings-on during the movie's first 20 minutes. Even as the film was shown, protestors picketed outside and distributed leaflets denouncing the \sexploitative\ nature of \Debbie Does Dallas.\ The movie's stay lasted one night. It hasn't been back since. \'Debbie'· was the second most-successful film that we showed all season,\ Nolan says. \Over 1000 students attended the showing, and we netted over $800, better than anything ex- cept 'The Rocky Horror Picture Show.' But I wouldn't show 'Debbie' again because Df all the objections.\ \The f~ presented a dual problem for us,\ says Ruth Readon, one of the anti-'Debbie' protestors. \We didn't want to deny students their First Amendment rights, but we didn't want to see an ex- ploitative film shown on campus. We felt the film reinforced violence and abuse of women.\ · The Campus Store Presents: UMBC's Rickard was so dismayed at the comm()tion that he launched a study of fihn censorship and pornography, and now lectures at other colleges on \Pornography and First Amendment Rights.'' PEANUTS@ by Charles M. Schulz THERE'G A RA~BIT! SEE HIM? OVER THERE! HeRE'S THE RESCUE HELICOPTER ON AN IMPORTANT MISSION ../' ~e~ c:MP 0 c /40 p .[:'h., c~oP l.-if 2-.2o ARE '(OU GOlN6 TO TR't\ To HIT HIM WITH A SNOWBALL? D HIROWIN6 SNOWBALLS AI RABBITS 15 RISKY ... -- --- @)1962 united Feature S)1KIIoal<l,lnc. ,!loP CIJ.Df Cf{Cf cuot' HMM ••. PANICKING REFUGEES ••• 0= \' To the ACLU, it's a question of official control over what the public can see or hear. \Opposing groups can and should urge people not to go to a movie that they feel is wrong or exploitative,\ contends Alan Reitman, the ACLU's national director. \Whether a film· is intellectual or pornographic is a purely subjective decision. Once you set in motion a process to ban material of any kind, you set the machinery in motion to ban anything and everything.\ Senseney agrees, claiming he simply distributes to groupdor fundraisers. '\.Debbie' is a big profit· maker,\ he says. \At a major university,. 'Debbie' should bring in about $2000 per showing. We take 50 percent of the profits, so the school would make $1000.\ Consequently, \Next to 'Insatiable' 'Debbie' ' . . is our most requested film thiS year.\ ( t I i I t i l r ' i t I \ ~ I I i ., t ( ( (

in in New show at- has the at any are as it was can- was fall, to who of The It we over ex- show all dual Ruth to we ex- on film so fihn the and a or Alan is cis a sion. a any in and per of OONOOBDIENSIS, February 4J 198S Page 13 Creationism: Genesis Vs. The Monkeys (CPS)-The federal district court ruling overturning an Arkansas law requiring primary and secondary schools to teach the creationist view of life's origins probably won't have much of an effect on eolleges, Where creationism still hasn't made many inroads in biology courses, observers \ say. An informal College Press Service survey of February, 1981 found a number of .secular colleges had recently begun to teach creationism as \another theory\ of the origin of life. Despite the contentions of some creationism advocates, only a few more secular schools have included creationism in their curricula in the ensuing year. '\We're beginning to see a two-model approach being taken up\ in colleges, says Dr. Richard Bliss of the Institute for Creation Research. \We are hearing from more 4!oliegt: professors who want to do it.'' But Bliss was unable to name any specific campuses that have actually adopted creationism in the last year. At that time, colleges like Iowa State West Valley College near San Jose, San Francisco State and Michigan State had in- structors teaching the theory of divine creation along with evolution. Most religion-affiliated colleges have always taught creationism with evolution. The bulk of the pressure to teach creationism in secular schools has been directed at primary and secondary schools. A scientists' group. formed to resist those pressures says there are creationist fights in some 42 states, including Arkansas. ''I hope we never see legislation on the college level,\ says creationist Bliss. \We would far rather go the route of persuasion.\ That route hasn't always 'been productive. In a response similar to those of other faculty members contacted for this article, Indiana University associate biology professor Dr. Thomas kaufman cedes that creationism \should be taught, but in the context of religion, not science.\ \Creationism is a religious view, and does not have a place in the science classroom,\ agress Wayne Moyers, head of the National Association of Biology Teachers. Even at San Francisco State, which creationists often cite as a \two model\ college, Biology Dept. Cliairman Dr. Paul Barnes says divine intervention is briefly treated along with ''other theories which people have considered over the centuries.\ , College textbook publishers also report relatively little \ pressure to include creationism. Puzzle Answer Greg Gallath, a regional 'sales manager ·for Worth Publishers says an exception is Bob J·anes University in South Carolina, which ''will screen salesmen at a gate and won't let in certain guys if they've sold offensive books.\ The Graduates (CPS)--Students' chances of landing a managerial, professional or technical job immediately after graduation are better .if they major in the ~health sciences, education or engineering, according to anew study by the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES). The NCES also found that, for the first time, women with bachelor's degrees in those fields stood about the same chance. as men to get the higher- paying white collar jobs offered after graduation. The study, which was based on the college Class of 1977, found that about three-quarters of the graduates in engineering and education had gotten professional, technical or managerial jobs in their fields. Eighty-four percent of the health sciences graduates had gotten them. At the same time the 'NCES announced its findings, Har- vard-where even liberal arts grads have a· good chance of finding jobs in their disciplines- released a study revealing that a record 53.7 percent of its June, 1981 graduates planned to pass up graduate school for the job market immediately after graduation. Harvard Career· Services Director Martha Leape at- tributes the rush to get jobs to \the aid cuts proposed in H£!ard any good nat ion a I news? Let us know BUSP STO Washington. Harvard is an expensive place to. go.\ Though the university pledges to help all its students meet its costs (expected to top $il4,000 next year), ''grad1).ate (financial) assistance seems especially vulnerable\ to the budget axe. ACROSS 1 Likely 4 Near. 61rrita.te 11 Human beings 13 Kind of sail 15 Printer's measure 16Manage 18 Artificial lan- guage 19 .Business abbr. 21 Cease 22 Narrow opening 24 Helps 26 Jumps 28 Golf mound 29Lapses 31 Narrate 33Rupees (abbr.) 34 Scruff 36 Platform 38 Yd. part 40 Pound down 42 Carried 45 Sass 4 7 Female ruffs 49 Approach 50 Preposition 52 Transported 54 Manuscript (abbr.) 55 Latin con- junction 56 Mendicant~ 59 Zeus's beloved 61 Take away 63 Motorless boats 65 Apportions 66 Letter 67 Bitter vetch DOWN 1 Simian 2 Writing implement 3 Preposition 4 European mountains 5 Molars 6 Applauded 7 Chapeau 8 The sweet- sop 9 Iron symbol 10 Weirder i 2 Italian river 1'4 Memoranda 17 Cheer 20 Norse god · 23 Army oft 24 While 25 Quarrel 27 Lath 30 Mast 32 King of beasts 35 Appears 37 Stalk 38 Avl'ator Pro-Lifers: u Gaining Speed (CPS)-A bill that would allow California students to withhold a portion of their student fees that might help pay for campus abortions has surprised its sponsor, and made it out of a state legislature committee. The Senate Education Committee in mid-January approved the bill, which lets students at all state community and four-year colleges deduct an uncertain amount from their CROSS WORD PUZZLE FROM COLLEGE PRESS SERVICE 39Shaded 41Wampum 43Simpler 44MD 46 Qt part 48 Room Si Ancient Greek coin 53 English streetcaf 57 Girl's name 58 Tin symbol 60 CIA prede- cessor 62 State: Abbr. 64 Digraph student fees if they don't want to pay for student abortions. \I didn't see it passing out of (the) education (committee),\ eXhulted Daniel Grimm, aide to Republican Sen. John Doolittle, who sponsored the bill. Anti-abortion students arollDd the country have periodically tried to withhold a portion of their fees as protests against abortion activities on their campuses. In California in 1fr77, three Berkeley students were temporarily suspended for withholding fees. Few, however, give the California bill much chance of passage this year. \Pro-life bills don't do well in (tile) finance (committee),\ Grimm says. Curtis Richards, a spokesm~m for the California State Student Association, which lobbied against the bill, says all local student groups-including tbe California Student Lob!)y, representatives of tbe California State University system and the CommUili.ty Colleges Student Lobby--are united in their opposition. \We don't see it getting past the legislature, but it will probably be back next year,\ Richard says. The bill has nevertheless been \a real pain,\ one with little meaning because \our system does not provide abortions, only abortion counseling a11d referrals.\ In legislative debate, Doolittle had claimed California colleges performed some 2000 abortions a year. Grimm says the bill is to allow students to make a choice, and is not inherently anti- abortion. \It's pretty .stran~e that the pro .. choice people ar-e objecting so much to a bill that is to give students a choice.\ Asked if the bill would also allow, say, anti-nuclear students to withhold fees th!lt Continued on page 4• STEP To THERtAR, PL&A~.

P_a_g_e_14 _________________ c_o_NOORDIENSIS, z;:ebruary 4, .198! Intramural Roundup I Skiers In Action By P.I Sports Staff I - . Broomball ~EN 1 S FIYE ON FIVE BASKETBALL STANDINGS Despite the problems a very fast run, a spectator Skier inadvertently crossed the finishing line tripping the timing · mechanism and nullifying Rhulen's excellent run, Harry rebounded and finished a strong fourth. Earl Stokes once against finished ninth and Union finished third overall in the giant slalom event. A LEAGUE w L presented by the Student Forum and lack of insurance, the Union Skiing Dutchmen took part in a meet this· past week. After missing a meet at Alfred earlier this term the Ski T~am par- ticipated in a meet in Dryden, New York, against top-notch competition such as R.P.I., SIGMA CHI GOLD 4 0 By DAVE PACE Sports Staff PHI SIGMA KAPPA RED 3 0 THETA DELTA CHI 3 l Men's and women's BEAVERS 2 1 CHI PSI 3 1 RUNNIN' REBELS 2 2 DELTA UPSILON 1 3 FIJI A 1 3 Cornell and Colgate. . B. L.A.S. 0 4 SIGMA PHI 0 4 ' broomball has already been underway for three weeks. In all, there are 43 teams made up of over 350 students. All six divisional races are neck and neck as we near the midpoint of the .season. Each team is determined to win the cham• pionship enabling them to en- scribe their names onto the coveted \Achilles Cup.\ B LEAGUE The cross country relay team began the meet with a strong effort by all-three skiers, Mark Ariente, Rod McLain and Donna Morris. The relay team On Saturday morning, it was back to the fields in Dryden for the final event, the 15 kilometer cross country event. Though one of the skiers had to drop mit dqe to illness, the other two did well with Rod McLain finishing a strong fifteenth. Red Division GUNNERS CHI PSI DELTACHI B . PHI SIGWHITE THETA DELTA CHI B LIGHTS OUT SIGMA CHI WHITE B SWISH Z.B.T. B White Division Z.B.T. B THE HOOPSTERS 5 4 3 3 2 1 1 0 0 3 3 0 1 1 2 2 3 3 3 3 0 0 - placed sixth out of thirteen, pJ;\Oviding Union with a respectable start. The. venue changed from the flat fie!ds to Greek Peak for the two downhill events. In the slalom race, Union placed a very strong second, just a few points behind arch-rivals R.P.I. An out- standing job was done by all, particularly Harry Rhulen, third place, Earl Stokes, ninth place, and Mike Balty, eighteenth place. - The final team scoring found The Cannonballers were last year's champions in the men's league. They have returned most of that squad and will be very tough to beat. They are undefeated this year with a decisive 8-0 victory over Sigma Chi Blue. Drew Harley tallied the shutout for the Can- nonballers. He was helped by Billy Curtin's hat trick, and goals by Dick Dean, Rick Sapir, and Jim McGhee. 3RDFLOORFOXSOUTH 2 1 In the late afternoon, the giant slalom race was run. The course was icy due to the setting sun but the racers could not be daunted. Harry Rhulensuffered a disappointing turn of events. As Harry was nearing the end of Union in a close fifth 'behind RPI, CorneH, Colgate and Clarkson. Behind Union finished Army, University of Buffalo, Syracuse, RIT, Alfred, Hobart, Hamilton and Harpur. Congratulations are in order for last week's skiers: junior captain Brian Walters, seniors Mark Ariente and· Donna Morris, sophomores Earl &tokes and Dave Ross, and freshmen Mike Balty and Harry Rhulen. This week the team travelsto West Point looking for an even better finish. All of this from a team that almost did not exist. However, Home Office, the team that lost t() the Can- nonballers in last year's finals, also look very strong again this year. Captain Lee Waxman has his team ready to overcome any obstacle that might interrupt their undefeated season. They are now2-0. Goalie Bob Fox and last year's --high scorer Dennis Wixsom are bath on top of their games as are hard hitting Les DELTA PHI DELTA UPSILON DOGS THE JOE MAMAS THE INTERNS SIGMA CHI DIRT B CHI PSI Z Blue Division WARRIORS YOBBLENORFS SIGMA CHI BLUE B FOXERS - 2 1 l 1 1 1 4 3 2 2 2 1 1 2 3 1 0 1 1 2 SPORTS PHOTOGRAPHERS NEEDED: · Kennedy and Dan Thomson. So if you find yourself with nothing to do one night at one o'clock a.m., take a walk down to Achilles Rink and watch the exciting game of broomball. DELTA UPSILON BOMBERS 2 2 FIJI B 1 1 PSI UPSILON 0 3 CONTACT PAUL AT 6155 SIGMA CHI COMMANDOES 0 4 MEN's & Women 1 s Intramural Events Hockey Showdown Single Elimination--play starts Feb. 9 Entry form.sdue Feb. 8 ----------------·-----~- Special Event. Entry Form Activity: Name: Address: Organization: Telephone: ------- .... -----·---------..-...- Trainers Published By SID Union College's head athletic trainer, Beth Ayn Deutsch, and assistant trainer, Tom Fashouer, had an article published in the winter issue of the Athletic Training magazine. The article explained how football hiP- pads can protect a football player ff()m hip poin- ters and ice hockey players from A-C sprains. Deutsch came to Union College as head trainer in 1979. She Is a graduate of Lock Haven State College where she earned a B.S. in Specialization Athletic Training and obtained an M.A. in Education from Central Connecticut State College. Deutsch, who is also a certified instructor in First Aid and Cardiopulmonary Resuscita- tion, is a member of the National Athletic Trainers Associati()n; the Eastern Athletic Trainers Association; ~ the American · Heart Association; the American Red Cross; the Lock Haven Alumni Association, P.S.A.H.P.E.R. and N.Y.S.A.H.P.E.R. Fashouer, a 1978 graduate of Lock Haven State College, also came to Union in 1979. He ob- tained his M.A. in Health Education from Trenton State College and certification from the National Association of Athletic Trainers in 1979. Fashouer is a member of the National Association of Athletic Trainers and is certified in both First Aid and CPR. ., . ., .•. ., . ., ,.,.,. •·flf'· ~ ., .•. •· •·. i Remember Your : Valentine! \ CIRCLE K FLOWER SALE ; Thursday & Friday , • February 11 & 12 t; 10:30-5 Carnegie Hall \·•··•· •. ., .,., .•. .,.\' ~-·· •· •· .. If you want your NAME on your YEARBOOK You must sign up in STUDENT AaiVITIES by FEBRUAR.Y 15th. The cost is $1. If you haven't bought a YEARBOOK, buy one NOW!

i!tator !d the : the and ellent and Earl lished third lalom twas ~n for neter tough >p olit ro did .shing found ehind and Inion ty of If red, trpur. er for unior !niors 1 onrta Earl and larry team 1g for f this idnot ·• , . . , . , ,. ~ OONCJORDIEN818,. February 4, 1982 Page 15 Sports Profile: john Jarosak By RICH BIEGAN If you are among the few students who have taken time out from your studies (and general apathy) to vis~t the fieldhouse, you may have made the following observations about this school's basketball team: 1) They are always smaller than their opponents . 2) They are better coached. 3) They rely more on finesse than strength. 4) They are excellent outside shooters. 5) They play better defense. 6) They hustle more. 7) They get no recognition. This has been the pattern of so many of our basketball-teams of the past, and this year's squad fits it nicely. If you do happen to stumble by the fieldhouse, you can check out each category, and in each case the assessment will probably be correct. But this article isn't specifically about the basketball team. Rather, it is about one player. In fact, the only player on the team who fits into all of the above categories. His name is John Jarosak and his creden- tials are impressive. Jarosak led the team in field goal percentage last year. John's defense is so consistent ·that an assistant coach called him the best defensive player on the team. He is also second on the team in rebounds, and third in assists. Last year, the school lost its all-time scoring leader, Joe Cardany, to graduation. In preseason, the big question was who would replace his scoring and leadership. While the question hasn't been fully an- swered, at this point the player whose scoring has increased the most is Jarosak. John started quickly this year. In Union's opener against Albany State in the Capital District Tour,- nament, he hit his first six shots en route to a spot on the All- Tournament Team. John's q~et manner does not draw attention thus recognition rarely comes. But he has long sinc'e accepted this fact. It would be out of character for a lack of recognition to af- fect John's play. On the basketball court, the two words which best describe his play are versatility and consistency. As a freshman he played point guard, which probably made him thetallest (6' 2\) player in Division III at that position. As a sophomore he moved to forward, where he is habitually asked to guard the other team's toughest scorers, and in most cases succeeds in shutting them down. This leads sportswriters and opposing coaches to praise Union's fierce defense, when .they really should .be praising Jarosak. Jttice, as John is known to his friends and teammates, usually saves his offensive explosions forthe most crucial moments of big games. Last year, against Division ~I powerhouse Hart· wick, his consecutive backdoor .reverse layups put the game away-and the Dutchmen in the ECAC playoffs. This year, against Rochester, J arosak put the game away with a vicious slam dunk that was pivotai both to the game and the season. The Rochester game snapped a five game losing streak, started a four game winning streak, gave Coach Scanlon the all-time victory record, and marked the biggest fan turnout of the season. Jobn Jarosak .has spent four years in the shadows. As a recruit he was overshadowed by Joe Uvegas. He has had the misfortune of playing alongside of scoring champ Joe Cardany and soon-to-be assist record holder Joe Clinton. Now, as a senior, he loses attention to his roommate, \Count\ Montanile . John excels at the points of basketball which go unnoticed, but are nonetheless essential to good· basketball and winning teams. FLORIDA from NYC $69one way EASTER CRUISE SAN JUAN from N:YC $178 round trip also Twenty days in Europe from $1395 7 day Carib. Cruise R.T.Air-Aib. to Miami All Cruise Amenities S.S. Festivals from $1064 UN ION STUDENTS-We book all kinds of travel including terms abroad, trips home, etc. Van Curler Traoellnc. Q:k:::~.,. Schenectady 611 Slate Street · 3 7 4-317 6 f Athlete of the Week ~ By MIKE SHARP Sports Staff Congratulations to Scott F.itzgerald, Miller Athlete (}f the Week. Fitzy, a junior tri-captain for the Ska.Ung Dutchmen, earned his honors with an outstanding defensive· ,per- formance this past week. Due to Ms performance against Middlebury on Jan. 27th, and Buffalo,. on Jan. 20th, Scott was named tile Eastern College Athletic Conference \Defenseman of th.e Week.\ Against Middlebury, Scott had an assist in Union's 5-3 victory, and against Buffalo, he had a goal and three assists in Union's 7-2 triumph.. Fitzy's tight defense and offensive scoring potential make him a major asset to the Dutchmen squad. just six games, he has recorded two goals and ,five assists. Scott .stands 5'10\ and weighs 175 pounds. He is no rookie on the ice, having played junior hockey for the Newmarket Flyers in his hometown of Newmarket, Ontario. Fitzy is a Political Science-Psychology major, and a brother and officer Scott missed the entire [980-a1 season with a separated shoulder. Union hockey buffs anxiously awaited FUzy's 1981- E 1982 debu.t, only to learn that he _g . had mononucleosis, which o.. would eventually cause him to ~ miss the first dozen games. of ci the season. However, since his return to the lineup the fans have not been disappointed;. in Tri-Captain Scott Fitzgerald of the Chi Psi Fraternity. The best of luck to Scott Fitzgerald and tbe Union College Skating Dutchmen for the remainder of the 1982 season. This week's Peanuts cartoon is in honor of Scott who is no stranger to the penalty box. Women's B-Ball Beats St. Rose By KATHY BENTLEY Sports Staff The Union women's -basketball team bounced back from a disappointing loss at Vassar last Tuesday and brought its record to 5-3 with two local wins over St. Rose and Albany State. The game against Vassar started slowly, but Union hustled in the second half to catch up. A successful free throw from Anne Fitzmaurice sent the game into overtime at 48-48. Union encountered foul trouble which sent four starters to the bench before the game ended. Julie Miller and Sherri Kudrewicz were unable t() play because .of injuries, so only three Union players were left to battle Vassar by the encl. It was a sad defeat at 57-60, but a l()t of effort was put in by Cay Lynch, with 21 points, and Carol Wrenn, with 17. Brenda Hugick grabbed 14 rebounds, followed by Lynch with 11, and Anne Fitzmaurice with 10. . Union's 73-69 victory last Thursday over St. Rose was a historic first win over that team. Anne Fitzmaurice had an excellent game, putting in 25 points andgr a b bing 10 rej)ounds. Cay Lynch had 24 points, and Julie Miller, 14. Julie also followed up in rebounds with 8. St. Rose was confused and frustrated by Union's unique, yet tough full-court press. Cay Lynch and Brenda Hugick were each able to grab 4 steals. Union played well and received a well- deserved win. Monday's game at Albany was also a nice win for Union, with a 58-53 score. Union once more put on a good fllll court press, and the zone defense was excellent, leaving only long outside shots for Albany. On offense, Union kept a fast pace through the second half followed by a good stall in the last few minutes of the game. Julie Miller had 13 poini .. ~ .:..\ld Carol Wrenn, 17. Julie was also high rebounder with 13, and Anne Fitzmaurice followed with 9. Once again, Brenda had four steals. The Union women's hoop team is having a great season this year, which is, in part, due to the team's faithful fans. Be a fan by coming to tomorrow's 6 p.m. game against LeMoyne. There is also a home game on Monday against Williams at 7 p.m. Sports Happenings VARSITY HOCKEY Holy Cross Feb.6 H Williams Feb.9 A Merrimack Feb. 11 A JV HOCKEY Canterbury Feb. 5 H VARSITY · Middlebury Feb.S H BASKETBALL Norwich Feb. 7 A Hartwick Feb. 10 H JV BASKETBALL Albany Feb. 10 H WOMEN'S LeMoyne Feb. 5 H BASKETBALL Williams Feb. 8 H Russell Sage Feb. 10 A SWIMMING Hamilton F'eb. 6 A R.P.I. Feb. 10 A Support Union Sports WRESTLING Bing., lth. Feb. 9 A' INDOOR TRACK QuadMt. Feb. 6 H PEANUTS@ by Charles M. Schulz THAT'S THE LONGEST I'VE EVER GONE WITHOUT A PENALlY;

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, February 4, 198! 0 + 0 ..c: a.. ....: ~ HOCKeY Wins Three Straight By D.S. HURLEY Sports Editor and TMF (Brockport) The Skating Dutchmen, after losing three games, bounced back this past week and won three straight. Union could not afford to have lost any of the three games. The wins keep the Dutchmen in the playoff pic- ture. On Wednesday, Jan. 27, the Dutchmen hosted the Panthers of Middlebury College before a crowd of 637, Union's smallest *\ crowd of the year. Union had \'\ \\' defeated the Panthers 6·3 p ~ earlier in the season at Mid- Union's Dan O'Neil scored twice vs. Middlebury dlebury, Vt. Union started the scoring off only 1 : 07 into the first period when Joe Caruso tipped in a smart centering pass from Joe Picano. This goal marked Caruso's first since he scored the 'hat trick' against Bowdoin four games earlier. Two minutes later Mark Bon found himself all alone in front of the net after receiving a nice pass by Mickey Perras. Bon made· a good move on Mid- dlebury goalie Mike McNamara to put Union up 2-0. At this point Basketball Loses On· Road ByERICSAPffi Sports Staff The Union College hoopsters returned home from an un- successful two game road trip this past weekend. The two losses, to Hobart and Rochester, dropped the Dut- chmen's record to 7-9. Eight of these nine losses were at their opponents' gymnasiums, a statistic which might well lead to the demise of Union's chances for post-season play. The loss to Hobart on Friday night ended a four game win- ning streak for the Dutchmen. It was a game they s}:lould not have lost. Hobart entered the game with a slate of merely three wins and 12 losses. The game was nip and tuck in the first half and stayed close for most of the second. John Montanile's short jumper widened Union's lead to 3 points, 49-46 with 6:17 on the clock. In the six minutes remaining, Union was able to put only siX additional ~ints on the scoreboard, while H<Jbart doubled this with 12 of their own. Six unanswered points by Hobart, after Montanile's bucket, gave them a lead which they would not relinquish. The final score of that game was 58- 55. On Saturday night, the Dutch- men travelled to the U. of Rochester. This is a team which Union had beaten soundly earlier this season but which is always tough on tbeir home court. The Dutchmen fell behind early, trailing the Yellowjackets by eight points midway through the ·first half. Scrappy defense allowed the Garnet to go into the halftime break down by just two ~ints, 23-21. John Jarosak hit the first bucket of the second half to tie the score at 23-23. From this point on it was a losing battle for Union; the Yellowjackets would not allow the lead to slip away again. A five point binge by Rochester, two of which were due to a technical foul by the Union bench, opened a spread which the Dutchmen could not overcome. The final score of 58- 49 in favor of Rochester dropped Union's record to 7-9. These two losses came at a time when it seemed the Dut- chmen were proving them- selves worthy of a postaseason berth. A victory over Hamilton on Wednesday night might carry enough weight in the eyes of the selection committee as to neutralize these losses. Hamilton is presently ranked No. 2 in New York State (Div. III) and eighth in the nation (Div. III). A keg of beer is being offered to the loudest section of the stands on Wednesday night so come on out and cheer the Dutchmen on to victory. Trackmen Split ByD.D. Sports Staff The Union College Men's Indoor Track Team notched its first win of the year, by placing second in a triangular meet with Colgate and Plattsburgh State on January 22nd at Memorial Fieldhouse. Colgate won the meet with 86 points, Union was a distant second with 38 points, which was just enough to edge out Plattsburgh State by two points. The Dutchmen were led by sophomore weightman Lynwood Wade. Wade won the shot put (46' 7¥4\) and was second in the 35-pound weight (40' 3¥4\). After the meet Wade asserted, ''I attribute my success to my psychological state; if you want to measure my 'psych,' just listen to how loud I yell when I'm throwing.\ In addition to Wade's first place finish, two other Dut- chmen recorded victories in the meet. Co-Captain Dave DellehWlt won the 800 meter run (2:05.1) and Denny Contois captured the 1,000 meter run (2:36.1). Mark Dunn achieved a personal best with a throw of 43' 2%\ in the shot put which was good enough for a second place finish. Dunn also picked up a fourth in the 35-pound weight throw. Perhaps the best race of the day was a battle between two Union tracksters in the 500 meter run. Bob Stelmack's feet were falling in the tracks of Tom Cutter before the dust settled down again; and he kept up so well that his breath fanned Cutter's head. In the end, Tom Cutter captured second place in the event (1:12.Sl), only one tenth of a second ahead of the third place finisher, teammate Bob Stelmack. Four other Dutchmen cap- tured a third place spot in their respective events. Co-Captain Brad Kline was third in the 35- pound weight (34' 11 ¥4\); frosh Jeff Mikel captured third in the 400 meter run (54.1); frosh Tom Bennett was third in the 800 meter run (2:16.4); and Gary Wenner jumped a personal best on his way to a third place finish in the pole vault (12' 6\). In a non-scoring event Irige Stockman was first in the 800 meter run (2:41.2) and Janice Glidden was second (2:41.4). The women's team still has a record of 1-1, while the men's squad is at 1-3. February 6 marks the next date the Dut- chmen will go into action. Union will compete against Springfield in an open meet at Memorial Fieldhouse. Spec- tators are welcome. in the game Union was passing and playing so well that it looked as though it might be a blow-out. However, the momentum of the game changed in favor of Middlebury. Middlebury came back with two quick goals to tie the game. With only two minutes remaining in the period. Mickey Perras found himself on the receiving end of some heads up passing by Tod Fobare and Don Beall. Perras ended up alone in front and shot quickly along the ice to put Union in front to stay. Dan O'Neill scored ·Union's fourth and fifth goals. Mickey Perras and Mark BoH received assists on both goals. The line of Perras, O'Neill and Bon has been playing well and is doing a lot of scoring for the Dutchmen. Middlebury scored 'once more early in the third period: to make the final 5-3. Goalie Mike Merlo had a great time turning away 38 Middlebury shots including two clean breakaways. On Saturday, Jan. 31, the legal assaulting was taking place in Buffalo as the Dut- chmen thrashed Buffalo 7-2. The highlight of this game was the return of freshman defenseman Sean Wills who miss- ed twelve previous games and added a goal and an assist. The game was loaded with penalties, as 15 were called on . each team. Union,. however, was able to capitalize on their power play opportu-nities scoring four times with a man advantage ... Gil Egan scored twice for Union. other scorers were Joe Picano, Mark Bon (game winner), Brian Shea, Wills, and Scott Fitzgerald. Bart Brooks turned back 27 Buffalo shots. On Monday night the Skating Dutchmen face(l}-off against the Brockport Soaring Eagles. Brockport, the cellar dweller in the ECAC W.est, received some fantastic g()altending from Ron Cappellazzo and almost upset the heavily favored Dutchmen. Cappellazzo kicked out 54 of Union's 60 shots to keep the Eagles in the game. Brockport jwnped out to an early, 24> first peri()d led by. goals by John Harrington and Mike Murphy. Union then came back to cut Brockport's lead in half as Mar-k Bon tallied his second goal in two games,assisted by Mickey Perras and Sean Wills. Altllough Brockport was totally outplayed by Union in the first sta11za; they held on to a 2-llead at the first intermission, The second period was played in similar fashion to the first as Br() c:kport. again outscored Union 2·1. The Eagles ,got goals from Tod Martin and Harrington's second. Union's Sean Wills scored Union to move the score to 4-2 after two periods; Union came out flying in the third period, and in this period their hard work started paying off dividends as Union out- scored Brockport 4-0 in the third period and cruised to a 6-4 win. Uni()n'sfour goals by Don Beall, Mickey Perras Joe Caruso and Brian Shea, were the results of hard work by the Dutchmen . With these four goals Union was able to turn a near disaster into a sweet come from behind win. The Dutchmen now stand 9-7 in· Div. H. They have eight conference games remaining and. must place in the top four to qualify for the playoffs. Union travelled to Div. I Colgate last night to face a tough Red Raider team that has an overall record of 14-4-0. ATTENTION: On february 12, 1982, all Spring Physicals. Contact respective coaches cis to time and place Dutchmen Trackman Lynwood Wade ... 0 t .!! ) .s: c + c .s: c

gles. ler in some t Ron upset men. i4 of , the kport 1 first John r;phy. ) cut .f as ~cond ~d by Wills. )tally 1 first llead layed rst as :ored goals and lion's m to r two ln the )eriod aying out- ~ third l win. Beall, o and !lts .of nnen. nwas ~r into i win. nd 9-7 eight lining our to Union .e last taider ·ecord 0 c: Ill .... (j) c: Ill -, >- ..0 0 +- 0 ..c: c. 1877 CXI., No. 14 February 11, 1982 Reacts to Charges Repercussions of the January 30 ori-campus violence are still being felt throughout the College community. Despite an investigative report from acting Dean of Students Don Spring to the President of the College, additional actions will be taken by the Conduct Committee. Acting Dean of Students Don Spring reviewing the facts of the Jan. Assistant Dean of Students Mike Andolina reported that the Conduct Committee will be acting in an investigative capacity rather than in its usual judicial role. The Committee will ''provide the students' point of view\ in this matter, ac- cording to Andolina. Student witnesses and participants of the actions in question will be called on to testify. A report will be presented to the Administration and recom- mendations of disciplinary actions made. Andolina stressed that the final decisions will be handed down by the Administration because of the deli.cate . ''political\ im- plications . of the incident. Andolina also stated that a situation of this sort has never occurred at Union before and there is no precedent for action. 30 incident. · WRUC Expands By ANNE RUTH Staff WRUC is in the process of expanding its broadcasting range. The station intends to increase its power from 10 to 100 watts. In addition, a new placement on the FM radio dial will also take effect. \We want to reach more people,\ explained WRUG General Manager, Jeff Mit- chell.\ The planned expansion comes as a result of WRUC' s position as an educational station on the FM band. About three years ago the FederaL Communications Commission (FCC) felt that the FM educational band, which runs to the number 92 on your dial, was getting too crowded with small 10 watt stations. They decided to eliminate many of the small stations by issuing orders that all the stations meet the requirements ()f 100 watts or more. The situation became con- fused, however, when virtually all the small 10 watt stations expressed a willingness to expand. The bureaucratic plan having backfired, the FCC did an about face and has since ruled that 10 watt stations may remain on the air. This clouded the issue further, but WRUC went ahead with its plans to expand and left its application in with the FCC. After all these problems WRUC remains op- timistic that their application will be approved soon, but as Mitchell notes, \we don't make predictions anymore.\ As soon as the confusion clears, though, WRUC should find a new home at 89.7 on the FM dial. When it goes to 100 watts the station will have a broadcast range of between 2 and 15 miles (depending upon which direction you go from the radio studio) and a potential listenership of over 200,000. WRUC will offer its expanded non-collegiate audience, \an altemative, '' according to Mitch~ll. WRUC prides itself on being different from most stations in the capital district by playing all types of music, · breaking new groups to its audience, and sponsoring specialshows that could feature anything fr-om show tunes to bard rock. As a college radio station, it does ·not play com- mercial advertisements, a definite vacation for the ear and soul. Because of its financial support from the school, WRUC can afford to be very flexible in its style. If the station's application is accepted, the changeover should be swift and smooth. Funds . from the Plannings and Priorities Committee are already resting in a bank ac- count and when matched by a check from the Student Forum, -engineering and equipment costs can easily be paid off. In the unlikely event that WRUC's application is denied, the beat will still go on-the foresighted management has already secured a renewal of WRUC's past application to operate at 10 watts. Central to the Committee's investigation are the charges against Thomas Asare, alleged organizer of the Old Chapel party. Asare, completing his fifth year in order to fulfill the double major requirements for Mechanical Engineering and Mathematics, was recently reelectedAssociate Chairperson of the Black and Latin Alliance of Students (BLAS). In this capacity he became involved in the incident in question. Asare is being charged by the College under two sections of the Student Conduct Code. Section 8 · .of the Code involves \violations of rules and guidelines set up by college departments.\ The College claims that Asare violated Food Service guidelines in reference to tJ:te. \sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages on cam- pus,\ as reported in Spring's statement. A second charge Pre-Registration SPRING TERM PRE-R~G~ATION NOTICE Pre-registration mate~ials. ~for spring' term 1981-82 will be available at the Office of the Registrar, Ro.om 2, Administration Building, beginning Monday, Febniary 22. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. S~y.dents who do not plan to return to Union for t]le spring-term, except for graduating seniors, must immediately give notice of t~eir plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. Potential ~arch gt~duates·shauld inform the Office of the Registrar of their:'plans to fipisb.their studies at the end of winter terin, if they have not alffiadi'done so. ... ..., . . . . \· 1 . . Students should confer witlt Faculty Advisers during the week of February 22·21>. Some departments: may announce special arrangements for advising._ please ~-·alert for such an- nouncements. - Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later . than Monday, March 1st.- A TEN DOLLAR ($10.00) LATE FEE WILL BE ASSESSED mEREAFTER! Please be on time, even . though your schedule may be incomplate! · PLEASE NOTE:· Required permission. cat·ds for designated spring term ·courses will not be available from departments until the Thursday morning of the week of preregistration, February 25. under Section 8 will be levied. It _is claimed, again in Spring's statement, that Asare in- tentionally misrepresented the facts \concerning the nature and sponsor of the party at Old Chapel.\ The first ·of these charges under Section 8 is attributed to the fact that a \cash bar\ was set up during the party. This action violated a contract with the Food Service in addition to violating the conditions agreed to under the Facilities Request Form. The second of these charges again involves the Facilities Request Form. This form, filed with the Adm.inistration, is used to schedule events on-campus and to obtain approval of such ac- tivities. Specific questions concerning the event to be scheduled are asked and the answers are then weighed in the de~ision making process whether or not to allow such an event. It is claimed by the College that Asare, in his filed form, stated that the party's sponsor was the BLAS \6rganization. BLAS stated in last week's Concordiensis that its title was improperly used by Asare. The report by Spring agrees that there was a discrepancy in the facts filed in the Facilities Request Form. The second section of the Student Conduct Code claimed to have been violated by Asare is Section 1. This section of the Code concerns ''the improper use of College facilities.\ According to Dean Spring's report to the President, \this violation stems from the alcohol sales and-or the use of Old Chapel for a public party when there was authorization for a campus party only.\ All the charges are related,as Sections 1 and 8 cover the same topics with different emphasis. Additionally, the question of the party's participants comes into question. According to facts uncovered by Concordiensis Editor-in-Chief Paul Grossman last week, the Facilities Request Form filed by Asare specified that the Old Chapel party was to be a campus-only function. It is known that the party was attended by off- campus people as well. Thomas Asare denies all charges. Asare stated that he \was doing everything for BLAS-I was doing nothing for myself.\ In an interview Monday night, Asare presented his account of the incident. The recently elected Associate Chairperson suggested that a party be held for the BLAS organization. Asare claims that the idea was well received by BLAS members. As BLAS had no money for such an affair, Asare contacted an off-campus friend who agreed to be the DJ for the party. The friend would receive payment from the monies collected at the door. After the initial positive reaction, Asare went ahead with the arrangements for using Old Chapel. Asare claims that he filled out the form two weeks before the party. Asare admits that he ''filled out the form too early-a lot of changes came afterwards.\ Asare, never before involved in BLAS socials, stated that he was Continued on page 2 Rumor Unfounded By DOUG E. LANDON Staff li.umor on campus suggests a possibility of the Rathskellar losing its license to dispense beer and wine as a result of the January 30 fracas outside the Old Chapel and accusations that the Skellar had been serving minors. According to the Director of Food Service and the Skellar manager, this report is both incorrect and unfounded. Janet R. Gray, Director of Food Service, doesn't believe the incident two weeks ago could cause a loss of license because the confrontation oc- curred outside the building and did not directly involve the Skellar. She blames bad press reports of \too much partying\ on the allegedly illegal cash bar set up in Old Chapel that evening. Although serving intoxicated persons is grounds for license revocation, she maintains Skellar personnel working in Old Chapel did not engage in this practice . Concerning reports of the Skellar serving persons under age, Gray stated, \to my knowledge, the Skellar has never been found to be serving minors.\ Skellar manager Brian Cottrell said there was a problem With minors over five years ago, before Gray began working at Union, but em- ployees in recent years have been very careful to avoid ·minors. Cottrell also added that theirs is a \club license,\ meaning they reserve the right to be discriminatory in whom they serve, and presently serve only Union students. Both food service employees indicated they were unaware of any movement to revoke the Skellar's beer and wine license. JNS.IDE: •Volentine~s Ooy Personals p. 13 •Nation-of News p. 1'0·11 •nPeonuh;'' p. 10 •Co·mmentori&s p.9

Page 2 OONOORDIE·NSIS, February .11, 1982 Greek Petition Signed By PAUL GIRSDANSKY Staff Acting Dean of Students Don . Spring has been presented with a petition signed by officers of most campus Greek Social organizations asking the College to revise its current freshman pledge meal reim- bursementpolicies. The current pl·an compensates the first l25 freshman pledges registered with Food Services at the rate of $10.35 per pledge per week. \reasonable limit.\ Although he did not directly call for all pledges to be covered by a new reimbursement policy, Johns did ask that all fraternities and sororities be paid retroactively from January 12 the full reimbursement amount for each pledge. At press time, seven pledges were unable to join with their houses for meals on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday due to the oversubscription problems. That nwnber is likely to grow as Greek houses pledge In the petition, primary their winter and.spring classes. signator David W. Johns II of Johns also pointed out that, Psi Upsilon urged Dean Spring under the current system, Food to raise the number of pledges Services pays for an average of eligible to an undescribed only six pledges per house.' Charges Refuted Continued from page 1 \naive.\ \I d'i.dn 't know the whole process of filling in the form.,'' responded Asare. Additionally, Asare admits that he didn't pay much attention to the process. He commented that \I did the form filling in a daze.\ Asare said that the party, when first conceived of, was to be for Union students only. But then, Asare states, the party was to be opened up for all \college students\ and specifically Siena, Skidmore, RPI and Albany State BLAS members. The public was not invited, but because of radio announcements here and at Siena, Asare admits that he \couldn't avoid attracting people from the community.\ Thus, the nature of the party changed after Asare filed his application .. with the Administration. Asare never thought of resubmitting the form. \I was busy working on the party and never thought about changing the form.\ At the third meeting of BLAS after Asare suggested the party, a dispute arose between him and BLAS CcrChairmen Greg Grant and Luis Diaz- Perez. This was Asare's position during the interview. Grant and Diaz-Perez objected to Asare's use of the BLAS name. Asare wanted to vote on the ·matter at the meeting. He thought the people wanted the party. Asare stated that the point was not brought up for a vote because the Co-Chairmen knew they would lose. Asare stated that \I didn't try to be a dictator of BLAS.\ If this is an accurate description of the proceedings, then it would appear that Asare still had popular support for the party. Asare added that he still had the power to use the BLAS name. Asare went on further and stated that the Co-Chairmen's comments in Concordiensis were \completely wrong\ on this matter. Returning to the actions at the party, Asare says that he was at the door the entire time. The admission fee at the door was two dollars no matter if it was a Union student or not. Asare claims he did not consciously allow any underage people into the party. In response to the question of how many were proofed, Asare \checked some, but not everyone.\ He added that he proofed suspect people. Additionally, Asare stressed that if any minors did get in, \I don't know how they did it.\ The question of minors is important because minors were involved in the brawl later on in the evening. deliberations. On a point of information, Asare says that both of the Co-Chairmen of BLAS attended the party. At the conclusion of the interview, Asare wanted it to be known that he felt that the Con- cordiensis article of last week \was an exaggeration.\ Asare will have presented his side of the story to the Conduct Committee this past Wed- nesday. Jan Grey, Director of Food Services, said that both the reimbursement rate and the reimbursement quota had both increased during her ·tenure. In addition, she noted that the Student Affairs Council is currently considering raising the quota in response to the petition. She wouldn't speculate how many more freshmen would be ·allowed to eat at Greek house with the cost partially absorbed by the school. Johns also complained that full-time Greek meal plan members had to shoulder a disproportionate share of midweek meal costs. At Psi Upsilon, the full-time boarder pays $3.50 .per meal while the fraternity is reimbursed only $1.72 per meal by the pledges. Like Psi Upsilon, Phi Sigma Kappa has also been hurt in recent years hy the loss of money in providing its pledges with mid-week meals. Steward Keith Cockerham ~reasoned, \It is an integral part of Greek life for pledges to share some af their meals with their future · brothers ... if the fraternity can afford the luxury of doing se.\ The SAC is expected to reach a decision in the matter in the near ~uture. T·37 simulator for USAF's new Undergraduate Pilot Training program, complete with visual system attachment, moving on new. six-degree-of·lreedom motion system. V.P. ·D'Andrea To Visit A,tumni (CNB) Thomas D'Andrea, Union's Viee President for Academic Affairs, will be travelling ex- tensively this month addressing Alumni clubs throughout Florida. D'Andrea will discuss ''Union's Academic Program: Basks, Bells and Whistles,'' at each meeting. D'Andrea has been Vice President for Academic Affairs and a professor of psychology at Union since September, 1980. He is a former provost and dean of faculty at Haverford College, in Haverford, Pa. Vice President D'Andrea's itinerary is as follows: February 22-Central Florida Alumni Club at the HaUfax Ri·ver Yacht Club. February 23--Tampa Bay Alurnni Club at the Tampa Hilton Inn. Fehruary 24-~Sarasota Alumni Club at the Crown HollSe Restaurant. February 2'5--Miami•Ft. Lauderdale Alumni Club at the Riviera Country Cltib. Holmes to Talk (CNB) Professor Donald S. Holmes of the Union Institute ·Of Administration and Management will discuss \Strategic Planning ·Models\ on Thursday, February 11; at the College. His talk, sponsored by the Institute of Administration and Management, will begin at 3: 45 p.m. in Bailey Hall, room 207. The public is welcome to attend. Holmes has been a member of the JAM faculty at Union since 196&. He is a fellow of the American Society for Quality Control and the American Ass()ciation for the Advan- cement of Science. He is president of Stochos, Inc., a Schenectady-based consulting firll). Link Simulation is future Engineering Modern simulation technology was born.at our cornpany fifty two years. ago and ever since thEm we've been the Indus· try's leader In .the manufacturing of aviation and aerospace training devices. So·if you're lool<lng for a challenge, join us. We need people like you. We have some immediate openings available :for Elec· trloal, Computer and Aerospace Engineers,ln Aircraft Slmu· lation, Aerodynamics, Flight Navigation Communi(]a\ion . Systems, Avionics, Flight Control Systems, and Circuit Design. If you're.looklng for.creative•simulation, excellent career potential and one of the best salary and benefit plans inthe Industry, get in touch with us. Send resume 1n confidence or call Oonn~e Esworthy collect 1607) 772·3161 Link. FliGHISIMLiLATICit DIVI~ON TH •• INEii!R CDI\IIPANV Bmghamton N·Y 13902 As to the charge that hard liquor was being sold in violation to the agreed rules, Asare stated that he did not know about it. Again Asare claims to have been at the door all night and \didn't see anybody selling hard liquor.\ This will be an important point in the Conduct Committee's ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS Union College- February 18,1982 '---------------------EquaiOpportunltyEmployerMIF---------------------~

of is a OONOORDIENSJS, February 11, 198tt Page 3 Forum News Campus Women Concerned ' By SUE BLQOMBERG Staff A proposal to the Student. Forum, from the Finance Committee, to increase the Speaker's budget was approved at Monday's Student Forum meeting. The budget had been al}oc~ted at $11,690 for the· school year, but will now be increased by $5,891 in order to cover the Parent's Weekend speaker. The possibility of having two display cases for student use in the library is now being negotiated between the library and the Student Forum. Although Dr. D'Andrea and Jean Pelletiere have discussed (CNB) Intellectual Cabaret will be sponsoring a presentation on the topic of creationism vs. evolution. This program will take place on February 15, at 7:30 p.m., in the old Chapel. The speaker will be Luther Sun- derland, an aerospace engineer who has spoken on the subject at various colleges in the area. The forniat of this InteHectual Cabaret will vary slightly from the usual program. Mr. Sun- derland will speak and show a slide presentation for ap- proximately one hour after which Professor Ludwig will be given a short time for rebuttal. As usual, after each speaker has presented his formal statement, the discussion. will continue by means of audience participation. The unique aspect of Sun- derland's ar wnent is that he is this arrangement, it is by no means official and is pending library staff approval. . Jeff Mitchell, Manager .<Jf WRUC, proposed a $1,000 in- crease in funds for new equipment to the station, which was approved by tbe Student Forum. The radio station also brought up the possibility of splitting the actual station from the Record Hop services. By having separate equipment and records, the Record Hop management \would· help immensely in accounting procedures.\ It was decided that the Forum would scrutinize the present Record Hop Management before ma'king any changes. \not fighting .for a Biblical account of creation,\ but rather he is working \.against the monopoly the theory of evolution holds in the classroom.\ He does not discuss God or dates and disagrees with the creationists who . try to promote their religious beliefs. He simply believes that there is no scientific evidence that supports the theory ()f evolution. Sunderland says, \I've done my research; I've studied· Geology, Biology and Physics. I know these subjects backward and forth ... I haven't found a single shred of evidence for evolution.\ . M'r\. Sunderland is an energetic speaker who presents his ma:terial in new and in- teresting ways. The evening promises to be a stimulating and educational experience. ENGINEERS.;. ByNAOMI BLANK Editor·in..Chief Since the \Fear of .Assault\ article from the November 19 issue of Concordi'tmsis ap- peared, the concern about aggression on campus has not subsided. Instead, it has remained an issue of significance and is a constant consideration of the ad- ministration and the President's Cormnission on the Status of Women. Statements and explanations were made in a recent interview with Acting Dean of Students, Don Spring, and professor Catherine Clinton, who chairs the W()men's Commission. Two incidents were cited in the aforementioned article of the paper. One incident oc- curred in October, 1981. At that time, ''the Conduct Committee initiated to hear the case,\ Spring explained. The attorney of the accused student req)lested that the hearing be ~ostponed, as \charges were pending downtown in Schenectady,'' Spring said. The Conduct Committee respected these wishes. In early or mid- . De-cember, downtown charges were dropped by the victim ~nd Spring stated that the Conduct Committee \picked it back up and had a Conduct Committee meeting the subsequent week.'• Regarding sexual harassment, Professor Clinton felt that \the Administration should be aware of women not knowing where to go,\ should such an incident take place. Both Spring and Clinton noted the levels of reporting incidents which victims may follow. Clinton explained that \the Women's Commission has received (from students) GO FULL SPEED AHEAD ~~--- AT ELECTRIC BOAT! Electric Boat is the world's foremost designer and builder of nuclear submarines- one of the great engineering challenges of this century. With a $3 billion backlog and long-term contracts. Electri9 Boat otters career opportunities in nearly every engrneering discipline (includrng electrical. mechanical. civil, etc.). top pay and benefits. long-range stability and an unmatched lifestyle on the southern New England seacoast. US C•l•li\\Sh·rt'E'rlU•'PtJ - A,n EQt•al0pror1t,•'·tv E•.,('l•n,_, .. t..A&~ 1-1( GENERAL OVNAMIC::S -· ~· .- . . ........ \. . '' . \,• Electric Boat Division The Besr\Shipbuildmg Team 1n Amenca 'Electric Boat Division wi II be interviewing on campus on February 18, 1982. Please contact the Placement Groton. CT 06340 Office f r time an lace.- ·------~B~UY~-----5 YOUR SWEETIE/ SOMETHING SWEEI, OR·SASSY. There's no better time than Valentine's Day to tell someone how you reail~ feeL And there's no better place than Le Cllocolatler to find just the right way to say it. But with so many ways to choose from at Le Chocolatier, from the sweetest Godiva chocolates to the sassiest of greetin.g cards, It's going to be a difficult choice. Remember though, we never meant · to drive you crazy. (Honest.) • . . In Schenecady ~uosa frona Proctor's 393.0317 ~~ In Albany oil lob!R119n SqNJC 434-1709 .,.. Store Hours: Mon .• Sat. 10.5:30 Thurs. 'tll9 In Albany, Sun. 12·5 • #ft ----~ ....... ;.;.;,;.;..;~~~-.;..~...;;;..;...~~::;:;.;..:.;~----, l'4l certain complaints about not knowing what to do.\ Spring emphasized the importance of the office's knowledge of the event. \This issue so much,\ Spring added, \isn't where to report it asto get it processed.\ He later commented, \If you don't feel ·confident and don't feel safe coming forward with names of people who've of· fended ·them in any way ... it ~s important .to getthe ·information down even anonymously that the incident occurred.\ The Dean welcomes students to contact the office and \describe the incident in whatever detail they feel comfortable at least getting into the process so the' school has a better barometer of what's going on.\ Spring stressed that \unless we know that these incidents are oc- curring, there's very little we can do.\ One previously voiced concern was re-emphasized by both Professor Clinton and Dean' Spring. This issue was the widespread effect of rumors. Both stressed that reporting an offense, even anonymously, would alleviate this problem. Clinton pointed out female members of faculty and ad- ministration, such as Assistant Dean of Students Jane Wood and Assistant Dean of Faculty Ilene Kaplan, as possible alternatives whereby ''a person may want to speak without embarrassment.\ Clinton stated, \I think knowing you can go directly to the Dean of . Students office is something that people feelcarries behind it a lot of weight.\ She stated that \Union is doing its best to Cl'eate a situation so that (there are) women on the faculty . . . the students have a woman dean, so there is a sense that you are not going to a school that does not respond to the needs of all of its community- males and females.\ Spring added \I think the important key here is for women who have been. offended to go to someone who they're comfortable with .. . there are a variety of places to report.'' Clinton added, \There is a .good feeling that if women do report incidents or have problems, the college will therefore respond.'' Once an issue is reported, Clinton noted a concern by victims of a later pattern of \retaliation and threats.\ \I feel very strongly that women have been intimidated by this . kind of behavior . . . it is a problem of silence. It is an invisible problem of people not knowing where to go and not knowing what will be done afterwards.\ Spring noted the \potential is there for abuse,\ and concluded re-emphasizing that \we're charged with protecting student rights and unless we know what the data is, we can't protect anything.\ Juniors to Visit CNB-Beginning this sum- mer, between 50 and 80 academically talented high school students from across the country will be invited to participate in a five-week program at Union called \The College Experience.'' Designed to be a bridge between secon· dary and higher education, The College Experience will offer students who have completed their junior year in high school an opportunity to gain a headstart on college and to experience campus life. Students admitted to the program will take two courses for college credit-one a core course that stresses reading and writing about ideas of the Western world and the other an elective. For the elective, students may choose from among computer science, anthropology, art history, economics, biology, and psychology. Classes will be taught by Union faculty. While on campus, students may take advantage of career planning and academic ad- visement services. College recreational facilities, with the added bonus of weekend hikes in the Adirondacks and trips to cultural events such as those offered by the Saratoga Per- forming Acts Center, will also be available. The program will run from July 5 to August 6 this year. Detailed information and ap- plication materials are available from Joan Krejci in the Union College 'Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies. The application deadline is May 3. Union will also offer for the first time this year a day camp for area youngsters in grades 7 to 10. This program will be held weekdays from July 19 to 30 and will include academic work and recreational activities. Program details are being finalized by the College. WOMEN'SCCMMISSION PRIZES The President's Cmnmissi.cn on the Status of Women at Union College announces that they will be accepting Prize Day award nominations in three major areas: 1. Scholarship -8eniorTbesis Prize: To the student whose senior thesis makes the greatest contribution to scholarship on women.-Nominations are open to students and faculty submitting senior theses written prior to spring term. -Junior Scholarship Prize: T<> the junior student who shows the most scholarly accomplishment in an area of interest and im· portance to women.-Nominations are open to faculty offering documentation of accomplislun.ents. 2. Community Service -Community Service Award: To the student who has devoted the most time and energy to furtbet\ing the cause of women at Union.- Nominations will be accepted from campus organizations sub- mitting documentation. 3. Athletics -senior Award: To the seaior who has done the most all-armmd to promote sports for women at Union. Also, to the student (except senior) who has shown the most promise in the area of women's sports.-Nominations for both athletic awards will be accepted from coaches and team members submitting docwnentation. Petitions and nominating materials will be sent to the appropriatE! departme~ts and organizations in early February. Deadline for entries is March 31, 1982. For further information, contact: Catherine D'Amato, Schaffer Ubrary (Scholarship) x6294; Jane Wood, Carnegie Hall (Commllllity Service) x6043 or x6176· Ellen Frishberg, Becker Hall (Athletics) x6123. Final award decisions by the Awards Committee of the Women's Commission will be made on April 22, 1982. Prizes will be awarded Prize Day, Parents Weekend. May 8. 1982.

• ; ! Page 4 OONCORDIEN81S, Feb_:1'Uary 11, 198~ Society's Art The Midnight Rider By THOMAS CHING Staff It is often said that society can best be reflected through its art. It is a universally acknowledged fact that com· mercials are considered to be an art form. Therefore, the logical assumption based on these two statements would be that society can be depicted through its commercials. Then by the standards of commercials, what is our society? It is most likely to be one in which thick bouncin' and behaving hair is life's ultimate goal bringing success and happiness. Our society is a . cosmos in which perfectly nice young women are enslaved to produce spotless floors; sparkling toilet bowls and static-free laundry. But how is she to accomplish aU these chores without her iron sup- plements and the proper panty hose? She must have her daily supplements once a day although she looks barely old enough to vote or to qualify for a driver's license. And what about her panty hose? Her choice between one kind and another is the difference between a dynamic, carefree athlete or a drab, dreary housewife on Staten Island. And what of her medicine cabinet? Even though she is a hypocQ.ondriac and her medicine chest is filled with the latest placebos and cures she is always lacking that one oint- ment which will make her headache and head colds not only bearable but actually a pleasure to have. Commercials are 'h·ardly sexist. Men in society are depicted almost as baa as their .female coun- terparts. Ollr society through com:tnercials questions his masculinity when he has a weak cup ef coffee in the morning. But this condition can easily be remedied with the proper brand of beer or cigarettes. In our society, man's otdy hope is the proper life insurance or a brand,new set of steel-belted radial tires. He inhabits a territory in which his best friends exist only to tnake snide remarlts about his aftershave or designer jeans. With the use of the ,p11oper cologne he can have women swoon over him and all sixteen pool balls (including the cue ball) fall into the proper pockets although he is blind- folded. In commerical land is ~ _ frustratingly filled with two overly healthy individuals having an impossibly delightful time in faraway and exotic places because of the right airline and deodorant. A universe in which flaky hair can rui!1 a man's life while, at the same time, a perfect close-cut shave can guarantee him a raise or a date with Nastassia Kinski or Lauren Hutton or even both. In conclusion, where would our delightful society be without these remarkably saccharin commercials.? THE PAUL REVERE CONPANIE5 are looking for SAUS-MANlGEMENT PEOPLE for the Gremter Al.,mny Clrea. Lee C. Barnett. CLU will hold an orientation program March 3. 1982 at 4:30pm -5:30pm. Please contact Placement Office for more information FLORIDA from NYC $69<>neway SAN JUAN from NYC $178 round trip also Twenty days in Europe from $1395 EASTER CRUISE 7day Carib. Cruise R.T. Air-Alb. to Miami All Cruise Amenities S.S. Festivals from $10~4 UNION.STUDENT5-We book all kinds of travel including terms abroad, trips home, etc. Van Curler Travel Inc. ~;:;;rs Schenectady 6Jl Stale Street. 374-3176, By PAUL GffiSDANSKY Staff It was late in the evening of one of those obnoxious evenings, and even the crickets were sweating. The heat and the humidity were ooth over one hundred. We were truly bored, sitting atop .aur fraternity house on a July evening that benignly intimidated us as if it were a preview to the fires of Hell. We were .reduced to comparing the rates at which the beads of sweat fell off ·our noses. It was like many of the other evenings that Joey Ernesto, Jonny Torquewrench and I spent in that oft remembered summer ·Of 1980. The three of us often. hung out together. I was somewhat the outsider because I didn't come from Alabama as they did. Rather, I was from the Nor- thern reaches of New York State where I was bom less than a dozen mires away from the Canadian border. We did share at least two things however: We each had girlfriends at Phi Omicron Chi Sorority and all three of them were away at a North Carolinian beach for the weekend. The end result was three young men faced with a weekend of inescapable celibacy in a very warm place. There was only one recreation left: Major League Binging. After the first case of beer, we threw Joey's portable radio off the roof when the announcer said that Orioles had lost yet again. After the second case of beer, we went dovvnstairs to position Johnny's Orange Oldsmobile unto the front lawn. We placed the car's stereo speakers on top of the roof and turned the Henry Paul Band up full blast. After that, we scaled our housetop fortress to start on our third case of Iron City Beer- -a God-awful concoction made from the left-over guano of the Pittsburgh Zoo's bat collection. Henry Paul was wailing through his rendition of Grey Ghost as I opened the first can of the fourth case. I looked at my comrades in consumption. Joey was looking splendid, wearing only a pair of black shorts, his black cowboy hat and his omnipresent forest of black hair on his chest, legs, toes, arms and upper lip. standing as straight as he could, he tried to do some modern dance as he tried to give a rendition of the Con- federate flag with his-he called it \robust\, we called it \fat\- frame. Simultaneously Johnny would have caused any sober man to scream with terror. Instead, Johnny inspired a smile in me. He was teetering on the edge of the roof, saluting p A R E N T w E E K E N ATTENTION UNION STliDENTS! SMA D 2-H,li.ll What better opportunity is there to introduce your. parents to all that Union College has to offer academically, socially, and culturally than Parent's Weekend. Parent's Weekend 1982, May 7th, 8th, and 'i'th, prom~ses to be an informative and entertaining experience for the entire family. Invite your parents to · share in your Union experience by familiarizing them With your accomplishments and with members ·of the . college community. lhe Parent's Weekend Committee is diligently . preparing a sensational schedule of events. If anyone has any su.ggestions to help make Parent's Weekend 1982 a success, please contact the Committe-e via Jane · Wood,Assistant Dean of Students, at 6176or 6043. bon''t miss out on any events! Remember that area hotel accommodations are booked well in advance. So · make your parent's reservations now!! a pine tree four stories below. The sixth case (or was it the seventh?) found Johnny giving an unusually long salutation. At the same time, Joey ga'IJe me a quick laugh and a wink of his moustache which meant that Something Was In The Works. It took only a minute to find out what was cascading in the usually trickling waterfall that was ensconced in his skull. From the look that he gave me, could tell that the .synapses were in overdrive and that the evening's libation had triggered a Niagaran Falls to wash away his brain cells and to sustain his reputation as the University of Maryland's pre-eminent mischief maker. Joey ran down the stairs to the front of the house. At the same time, I heard the rustle of pine branches in back. Johnny-the sturdy fellow that he was-staggered back to the roof just as Joey fired ap the Olds' 442 Cubic Inches. Joey, the exemplary driver always, realized it would not :be a good idea to drive around town with the Henry Paul Band blasting away. He put an Electric Light Orchestra tape ·in instead. He started driving around the half- mile oval in front of our house at a steady and unwavering ten miles per hour. Johnny was a good citizen. He called Campus Security to report that his car was stolen. Realizing that Joey had imbibed at least half of the six (or was it seven?) cases of the Pride of Pittsburgh an'd remembering that the Campus Goons were actually Maryland State Police in disguise, I smilingly stuttered, \Thish could be interesting.\ Scanning what was left of my brain, I thought of the time that I walked a tour of Officer John Bradley's patrol with him. Outside a dormitory during a student recess, we saw a three inch cockroach kidnapping the remains of a sandwich. Officer Bradley pulled out his .38 and bisected Charley (that was the name of the roach) with a bullet. I elaborated on my previous statement. \Thish CCluld be very intereshting,\ I breathed. Johnny emerged from his BOOKS GIFTS CARDS room and we watched his car's speakers bellow out Strange Magic at a constant ten miles per hour . . . n9 faster . . . no slower. Somewhere along the third lap, a police car gave pursuit. True to form, Joey maintained his ten miles per hour. Three laps later, I ·went down_stairs with a checkered flag I ... ahem ... requisitioned from a local dirt track. As Joey passed by, I gave a fearsome flutter the car with the speakers on top; as well as the four cars behind it with the sirens on top. The five cars parked, and Johnny and I joined the fun. Joey_stumbled out of the car. He looked up and roared with laughter. \Hello Ossifer'l'' Johnny spoke as Joey registered a .31 on the breathylizer...;\Honest to God, Officer Bradley; we was sitting on the roof and this tall, blond guy took off in my car . . . \ · \Yeah sure.\ \ ... and Joey jumped on the trunk and crawled to the roof .. '' \Yeah sure.\ \ ... and he kicked this blond guy in the head and tied him up with six-pack plastic holders and drove the car back and he was so drunk . . . \ \You said that. I didn't.\ \ ... with pride that he didn't even see you until he drove around three times . . . \ \Yeah sure.\ \ ... and we still have four cases of Pittsburgh Pride and we're gonna party all night and don't you get off in twenty minutes?\ \Yeah sure,\ Officer Bradly smiled. He continued in his drawl, \I think that damn alcohol machine is busted. I'll see you in twenty.\ \All right! \ So Johnny limped and I staggered back to the roof. Joey crawled to the third floor bathroom, where he got behind a steering wheel again. This time it wasn't an Olds. It was the Porcelain Bus. He. emerged just as Bradley got off duty. We had a good time for the rest of the night as we started the seventh (or was it the eighth?) case of Iron City Beer and bisected fireflys until the morning's first light. -136 J•y St re•t Downtown Sche'nectady--- 3•S·271a /-~c!~ -.WE DELIVER- 374-1888 ~~ ~SL 464 State St. Schenectady, NY

-- I r's tge les no lrd lit. 1ed nt ed ed ey 1e rs rs p. 117. th ey he ld, ng nd he \ lld llp :rs he J't ve ur ld ld ty ly tis m '11 I y r d lS iS y e e it y il k By BOB VAN VORIS Staff OONOOE:OIENSIS, February 11, 198tt features John Ra~:~scher •as concludes 1:1 is participation ·in the game of Ki Iter. Page li Have you ever wondered what happens to the political science major once his senior thesis, \Walter Mondale: Fact or Fiction\ is past? If he is a graduate of Union College the chances are quite good that he . is considering a career -in Iaw. The same holds true for those who major in history, economics, English, and even math. To anyone who has ever seen \The Paper Chase\ the difficulty of the transition £rom Union's familiar settings to those of the nation's most competitive law schools is obvious. The Union College Pre- Law Society is an attempt to make this transition just a bit easier. Reestablished last te~m through the efforts of Junior Dave Wollin, the Society promotes the interests of Union students consiqering law as a career, and, in addition, provides information on law schools, admissions tests, and career related news. The Society is budgeted at $640 for 1981-1982and its faculty advisor is Professor Joseph Boar-d of the Political Science department. The Society's ranks four of- ficers. and about sixty regular members. Its goals include the establishing of, internships at law offices in the Schenectady area, trips to nearby law schools, and the publishing of a pre-law handbook. Also high on its list of priorities is the scheduling of speakers on various law-re:lated topics. According to Wollin, however, the Society's most immediate concern is simply becoming established on campus, a goal that is being met with sur- prising success. While many of its plans may seem ambitious, .the Union College Pre-Law Society fills a very real need on campus and for this reason appears to be on solid ground. Anyone interested in the Pre-Law Society is en- couraged to contact Dave Wollin, Box 947, Union College. Carnage Continues at Fox By BRIAN QUINT Staff Idle Idol? (Editor's note: The following is not a standard article. It was meant to be a typical who~what­ where-when-why piece. However, due to what the writer saw and heard (he called it \utterly shocking and sickening\) he has asked to explain things in his own sub- jective way. The following does not express the views of the editors or of Concordiensis.) By DAVE FITZGERALD Staff If you are a writer or artist and would like a chance to have your written or artistic work published then the Idol is for you. The Idol is Union College's own literary arts magazine, which anyone in the college community is free to submit their best literary or artwork to for a chance to be published. If you are interested there is little time left because the last day for submissions is February 15. After you have made yollf submission it goes through a highly selective process in which the entire staff of the Idol participates. The judges review the material in search of the highest quality of work to publish. This year though the judges have had little to review because only a few people have submitted material. So if you have a poem or short story you have written or artwork you have drawn, then SUBMIT IT NOW. In addition to publishing a literary magazine the Idol also is co-sponsoring a series of readings by contemporary authors with the English Department. The authors in- clude John Drury, author of Fire In the Wax Museum, and . Lim Rector, who will be at Union on February 25. If you want to know more about the Idol, you are invited to attend the ne:xt meeting or to contact Karen Paul. They drew chalk lines around yet another body at Fox dor- mitory a few days ago. The victim, trapped in a phone booth, was crouched in one of the far lower corners, his face frozen in a final cringe, his hand in the change return slot, ap- parently looking for a dime to make a call to the ASPCA. This wanton act of aggression (as opposed to an egg drop act of aggression) was one of a series of sick slaughters that oc- curred, not for a political goal, not for an economic goal, but for the sake of blatant competition. That's right, sports fans, for competition. This reporter is sickened by the whole affair, and wants nothing more than to GALLERY LAINZBERG 0~!111. q1Mt 1/zel/ntmaieJJl)dm STUDENT ACTIVIT! ES sponsors Non.- Tues. Feb. 15-16 9am until6pm STRAUSS LOUNGE CARNEGIE HALL throw up on a likeness of Debby Boone. It might be asked, \What are these sleazy minds up to?\ As we at Concordy put it regularly, \the public has a right to know.\ Do you want to know? The activity is cheerfully called \Killer where the par- ticipants assassinate assigned victims until one killer remains ·and is declared \winner.\ The · vile conclusion to a victim's life is p~rpetrated by shooting of such objects as water pistols, blowguns, and rubber bands. It is truly astounding at the number of blowguns out on the streets, without registration, in the hands of punks. Yet, their use is glorified, like a pagan ritual, at Fox. They keep telling this reporter that rubber bands don't kill people; people kill people. The pile of dead meat at ·Fox testifies to the con- tradiction to that statement. Why has this gruesome game of mercenary tactics been so attractive? Is it just the conflict of \man against man\ (or any permutation thereof)? Guess again, groupies. It isn't even the unequal stratification of societal groups or even the lack of political representation that would cause these dastardly deeds. Oh, no, my friends-it's much more filthy than that. Beer. People will force the last breath of air out of aTtother person's lungs for nothing more than the sake of getting shit- faced on Tuesday night, with an unknown brand of beer, at that. This reporter again reaches for that likeness of Debby Boone. Who would manipulate ap- parently innocent people like this? It has been surmised that the Oscar Mayer Corporation might be behind this blood bath. Pork prices have to be kept down some way. Some ., • ., ..•• ., •• .''fl·f/(f· ··~·., ., .•• •·•·.,. : Remember Your Watergate-like investigative reporting has led to a group of people that strikes closer to home than any sane person : Valentine! ¥ CIRCLE K FLOWER. SALE • ; Thursday & _Friday • February 11 & 12 ~ 10:30-5 Carnegie Hqll .., ·•· •·•· .,,., . ., . ., . ., . ., ., .•. •·•·. would have ever realized. No, you fools-it's not Housing. It's the COA-the Committee on Assassins. A group of Union students that pathologically twisted their companions, for, apparently, nothing more than the entertainment of watching friends making mincemeat of friends, as if it were some ex- perimental rats in a cage fighting it out to the death for that last morsel of whatever rats eat. Concordiensis has tracked down o~, .of the members of that mliliky group, known as the COA. She con- fesses that, in fact, a quasi- ' 'paranoia-schizophrenia'' experiment had occurred for no reason other than for thrill of gaining some freak•show-like entertainment. Look out bearded ladies of the world. A source close to the COA in- dicates that the Committee was \upset that there weren't more suicides,\ adding that \suicides could have been more prolonged and agonizing, (which would) provide en- tertainment for a longer period of time. I think that the bystanders, in that respect, were cheated out of a good time.\ Hmnun. Two incidents illustrate the demonic glee participants took in snuffing out a human life form. The first happening oc- curred apparently ( \app- arently\ is used because the coroner's inquest brought out nothing more than the fact that Jack Klugman can't act worth a tinker's damn) after a recent Davidson beach bash. The victim was innocently slaving over some school work, when there was a knock at the door. It was the soon-to-be murderess. She cunningly faked a fit of drunkenness and staggered over to the desk, where the victim was breathing his last. The assassin took off of her neck a Hawaiian necklace that she had obtained at the party, put it around the victim's neck-and pulled. The death certificate read \lei-ed to death.\ As one COA memberput it, \Frankly I think being lei-ed is a lousy way to start off a Friday night.\ So callous. So insensitive. The special dinner at Hale provided the setting for the other incident. Shish-kabob was being served on wooden skewers that fateful night. Little did the victim know that that meal would be a personal Last Supper. As witnesses described the slaughter, the assailant picked up a used skewer, wiped off the mushroom grease, went over to the victim and drove the weapon into the doomed heart of the innocent diner. As bystanders showed fright, confusion, and fear, and as they took cover, fellow assassins happily \gazed from table to table, smirking at each other,\ as· one put it. There were congratulatory handshakes over the kill. At this writing, this reporter agonizes over the significance of life and death, man and beast. As the Physical Plant people cart away the rigor- mortis corpses, as the COA annoints Assassin No. 1, the sickness, the macabre-ness, the vileness that surrounded this \sudden-death\ competition remain-like the blood-stains on many a Fox carpet.

Page 6 CONOORDIENSIS, Jlebrtw/ry 11, 198$ ~rts &_ Culture Tonight at Proctor's SCHENECTADY -Veteran stage and screen actor Dick P0ston will be performing his one-man docu-drama ''LIN- COLN VS DOUGlAS 1858\ at Proctor's Theatre, Schenec- tady, on Thursday, February 11 at 8 p.:m. ''LINCOLN VS DOUGLAS'' is a uniqlle piece of theatre, researcl'led and written by Poston who has !been touring with the show for the past six years. It simulates one of the seven famous campaign debates which took place throughout Illinois in 1858 between Abraharn Lincoln and Stephen A. Do11glas, political antagonists vying for a seat in the U. S. Senate. The two-hour show, according to Poston, is filled with present day pertinence. He draws parallels between Lincoln's oppositi()n to U.S. involvement in the Mexican War and our involvement in Vietnam; to Lincoln, the unknown can- didate, challenging an in- cumbent to a debate, as Senator John F. Kennedy did to Vice- President Richard Nixen in the presidential race ef 1950, and to the continual struggle for human rights. Poston also points out that \LINCOLN VS DOUGLAS\ paints in graphic detail, a vivid study in contrasts. The setting is a colorful, flag- draped Grange\Hall somewhere in Nortbern Illinois. Poston approaches the podium first as the Righ. Honorable Stephen A. Douglas, the bombastic but powerful and popular in- cumbent Senator and acknowledged leader of the Democratic Party. Nicknamed \The Little Giant.\ he is a round, ruddy self-assured orator with the bellowing voice of a fog horn. Douglas attacks Lincoln on his Mexican War stand; avows the right:; of the Southern States to sustain slavery; upholds the Dved Scott decision and ends his oration with a powerful and stirring plea . for the preser- vation of the Union. Before a lowered podium - to create an illusion of height - Poston returns after in- termission as Abraham Lin- coln, the virtually unknown former Congressman and prairie lawyer. Gangly, sallow- skinned and poorly dressed, he is shy, hesitant and self~ conscious. In his thin, reed-like penetrating voice, Lincoln defends with witty homespun anecdotes and a plainsman's logic himself, his principles and the basic platform of the Republican Party. As an un- derdog, he proves himself an equal match for his very noted opponent. A Boston College graduate, Poston's theatrical career spans forty years. He acted in ten Broadway productions including STALAG 17, INHERIT THE WIND and the Andersonville T!rial. He has appeared on all major TV networks in over 200 shows, has performed countless com- mercials and played in 50-some movies. He has also scripted and sold 7 motion picture screenplays, produced five of his plays Off-Broadway and wrote a book, BURLESQUE HUMOR REVISITED, based on his 3-year stint as straightman with comedian Joey Faye. He claims Tom Poston as his younger brother. Tickets for the \LINCOLN VS DOUGLAS 1858\ show on February 11 are priced at $5.00 for the matinee and $8.50, 6.50 and 5.00 for the evening. They are available at Proctor's box office, 432 State Street and the CBRO outlets at the Colonie Center, Empire State Plaza and Troy Atrium. For group sales, call 346-8164. EVENTSONTHESUNYACAMPUS Febmary 14-BLOTTO: Live on screen, including a videotaped performance and in-person autographing party hosted by Albany's most famous rock group begins at 2:30p.m. February 16-Z6-Mart Crowley's serious comedy, \Boys in the Band,\ will be directed by guest artist Peter.. Bennett for a University Theater production in the Studio Theater of .the Per- forming Arts Center of the University of Albany. This controvex:sial play of 1968 portrays eight homosexuals and a self-proclaimed heterosexual at a birthday party. For further information call the Performing Arts Center at 457 -a606 (tickets are $5.00 for the general public.) ~ide11t :f\dvisors are VeTZJ special peoplea Could MOU 5e one ? 1\p?,licaiioyts now availa6le ~fl __ t~e 1\.esidence Life ottice 'Due ; fe6. Z6 Peanuts - Page 10 ·, . Cabaret Rev,iew: \Upbeat and Energetic'' . By C. F. GHINGHER As a regular at Cabaret, it isn't uncommon to see old faces on stage. However, one new face was that of the M.G., Marcy Wilder.· .She was delightful. Her delivery and timing of a clever st()ry, ·demonstrated her true wit. The first act, Susan Barnel and Nick Moran, were two fresbrnen who were on stage for the second time. They en- tertained us with a few Jani MitcheH tunes, a guitar solo, and some other nice selections. Though once again they displayed their talents quite well, it would have been nice .to have seen S0rne new material. Having seen. them before, I noticed a bit of repetition. Nonetheless, the audience seemed to enjoy their per- formance thoroughly and we hope to see them on stage soon again. \Scatterbrain\ guitarist Ken Kaufman was a blur of energy as was drummer Brad Roberts. Paul Sabatino played the low notes with I e. Matt Sandler was book in' too fast to be on 'film Well, I said r had seen familiar faces on stage, but the second act was one I hadn't seen before. A few new faces and a whole new sound changed the whole mood in the Cabaret room. Upbeat and energetic, that's what I like to see!!! Lots of polish and a good in- strumental blend made \Scatterbrain\ lots .of fun. Their \tender love ballad Josephine added a different flavor. Jim Etkin has a nice blues-type voice which in combination with a \groovy\ rhythm from Matt Sandler, Brad Roberts, and Ken Kauf- man on drums and guitars, not to e::xclude Paul Sabatino on the bass guitar, made this number particularly enjoyable. All I can say is my feet were tapping from start to finish .. -. (and I wasn't alone). Freshmen Nick Moran and Susan Bomel are alree~dy veterans of the Cabaret stage. Cabaret for Thursday, February 11, is cancelled. Puzzle Answer The Every Thursday Night Concert Series 11:30 pm with Bill Singer This week: Jackson Browne -'Friday Nights 5-8 pm: Soul-Disco w/Kevin Bradford Cruisin' with Susan w/Susan Stern -Sunday 11:30 am-2 pm Classical w/Jeff Dinces ~JAZZ every weekday from 12:30- 2 pm -SPORTS: Hockey vs. Westfield Sat. Night 8 pm -The Neglected Album Hour w/Mike Winikoff Sunday at midnight This week: Marquee Moon by Television rm. PHOTO CLUB WI·NTER PHOTO· CONTEST Theme: Winter at Union- pictures portraying winter life at Union Entries· Due Monday, Feb. 15th In Student Activities 1st Prize .. $75 plus free darkroom use for the rest of the year and a discount card for Burns Ca.mera Store. 2nd Prize - $25 and extras ?: ttl 'C c: ...J ~ 0 .... 0 .c: c.

···i\' c: ~ ere s: rtl \0 c: :J >- .c 0 +- 0 .c: a. c: (\) fO :;;: rtl \0 c: ...J >- .c 0 .... 0 .c: c.. OONOORDIBNSIS, Feb.ruary 11, 198~ Page 7 ----~----------------------~~~~--~----~~~------~--~------------~-- ~rts & Culture 1.---· -Dr-_:u-ry-. N-o-t -D-re-ar-Y---.,1 Diversity at WRUC By N(!)RMAN BIRNBACil are no rules. Staff He also talked about betng a Last Tuesday, John Drury read 'at the third in a series of readings by contemporary :poets that are co-sponsored by , tile English Department and the IDOL. Drury, who is a friend of · Visiting Professor of English Jordan Smith, took time off from his job as Program Associate at the Academy of American Poets to read here. As Program Associate, Drury supervises the awarding of some of the prizes the Academy gives out; including, the ,prestigious Wait Whitman Award. The Academy also sponsers ·many readings. Drury writes in a style that is in between formal and free verse poetry. F.ormal poetry is ,poetry that is written in an established form, such as in a .sonnet, or uses such \artificial\ devices as meter ~nd rhyme. One of the good things about free verse is that there are no . strict rules, no real . form. However, he said, \all kinds of poetry are in some kind of form.\ And, it is the \freedom that makes free verse dif- ficult,\ simply because there poet. There is no poet who lives by his poetry alone; poetry doesn't generate a lot of sales. Most poets bave other job13. The problem with that is that it's \hard to hold down a job for forty hours a week, commute, have a social life and write,\ he said. ''Writing,\ said Professor Smith, \plays hell with your social life.\ , As for poetry, Drury sees it as \a means ,of perception, as a way to get insight into something.\ His own poems , were realistic, persona, and fwmy. An example is from his \Evensong which is about a e,hoirtioy in a church. Yet the church's ceiling Oak-beamed and dark, was so far up If I'd thrown a ball I couldn't have hit it. Not that I had a ball. Other poems were ''The Disappearing Town,\ which was about his. hometown, \Circle Line,'' which is about a trip to New .York City as seen from a boat that encircles it. The next reading will be givep by William Rector on February 25. SUNDAY ONLY With the polarization of so many of today's large radio stations, very little in the way of variety and originality remains on.the airwaves. More and more stations are abandoning creativity for sure to succeed, .but sterile and unimaginative formats with limited playlists and lots .of commercials. It is understandable in an uncertain economy that a guaranteed audience which will submit to a repetitiv.e barrage of the current best .selling records will insure a high .profit margin, but it leaves little room for the development of new trends, as well as excluding categories such as jazz, classical, and the more innovative rock and new wave. Enter WRUC, owned and operated. by you, the students of Union College. \WRUC does not need to compete with the large commercial stations,\ says Promotion Manager Jeffrey Dinces, \but by offering alternative programming, we can tao a market other stations don't reach. As a non- commercial station, WRUC plays music for its own sake, we're not trying to sell ad- vertising so we can play for an educated audience. WRUC is an Brand New Factory Fresh Merchandi·se PIONEER Power Magnums for big bass and crisp silk highs The N.Y. WHOLESALE CO. actihg as sole & ex- clusive agent has repossessed a limited quantity of PIONEER Component 4-Way Stereo Speakers for non· payment of back debts. These 73ff:oo 12 inch woofer speaker systems are now being made available to the Public for only 199. 00 a pair. 5 .Element System W/12\ Woofer Control Box & Ci rcu1l Breaker ALSO BEING OFFERED AT REPOSSESSION PRICES, THE FOLLOWING BRAND NEW MERCHANDISE: 19 piece Stainless Steel English Cutlery Set w/Matching Steak Knives ................ . Rogers 50 piece S1ainless Steel Flatware Set/Full Service for Eight .. , ........ , ....... . Beautiful LCD Wrist Watches w/Push Button Nite Lite (Day/Date/Time/Stop Second) ... . -1< 7 piece Deluxe Stainless Steel Copper Bottom Cookware Set . - .................... . 18' Regulation Backgammon Set in Attractive Attache Case ......................... . 40 piece Inch and Metric Socket Set ..... , ... , ..•. , ......... , .... , .............. , .. Full Feature Brand Name, AMIFM/MPX.Car Stereow/Bullt in Tape Deck ........ , ..... , . 4-·Vi'ay6 x 9 Car Stereo Speakers w/20 oz:Magnet. ... , ...................... , .... , .. 100Watt Car Graphic Equalizerw/7 Controls, 2 VU Meters and Fader Volume .... , ...... . • PIONEER, MARANTZ,.SONY, SANSUI, Stereo Receiver/Amplifier LIST P.RICE NOW '59\ 51400 69\ s1goo '79\ s1aoo '79\ 52400 '39•• s1700 •ss•• s1300 '139•• ss4oo sgg•• 54400 '139•• ssaoo 'JVC STEREO CASSETTE RECORDER w/Metal Tape & Dolby Noise Reduction UP TO . TECHNICS Manual and Semi Automatic Belt Drive Turntable 50o/o OFF . HOME GRAPHIC EQUALIZERS w/Multi Control (110V- 220V) AKAI S1ereo Cassette Recorder with Metal Tape and Dolby Noise Reduction .. __ . '239 00 S 109° 0 TECHNICS Manual Belt Drive Turntable , , _ ......• _ ... ___ ., .. ___ ... _ ........ _ ... . 5 169\ S 74° 0 , SO NY AM/FMJMPX Home Stereo Receiver · with Tape Deck Recorder, Dolby and Metal Tape I\IIANY OTHER ITEMS AVAILABLE , THIS WOULD BE AN EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY TO PURCHASE NEEDED HOLIDAY WEDDING SHOWER AND BIRTHDAY GIFTS, AS WELL AS ONE FOR YOUR OWN USE. -A TTENTJON- THis UNBELIEVABLE OFFER WILL BE HELD AT RAMADA INN 450 Nott Street Schenectady, N.Y. (Exit 25on N.Y .S. Thruway,890to Exit 4B, Fort Erie Blvd. for 1;.. miles) Between 11 AM.and4 P.M. on Sunday, February 14,1982. ALL MERCHANDISE FULLY GUARANTEED Limited quantities available · first come first served ,Rain orShi.ne SORRY NO PERSONAL CHECKS z• $50. 00 MINIMUM art medium, not a business.\ Currently WRUC is being promoted as \'l'he Alternative ~adio Station,'' a phrase coined by Program Manager Ted Behar. Behar has been in- strumental in the institution of block programming: WRUC's winter term schedule includes several \blocked\ time slots which have been designated for a specific type of music or , special program. The move toward block programming is designed to· attract listeners who otherwise would not tune in; diversity is maintained, but within the framework of a more consistent schedule. \Past complaints about WRUC have included the notion that people tune in not knowing what to expect.; using block programming, we can let the audience know what type of music is peing played at what time,\ says Behar; \ ... we are trying to build up a permanent ' audience.\ The largest of the blacked time slots (weekdays from 12:30 a.m. - 2 p.m.) ls devoted to jazz. .Friday afternoons and evenings from 5 p.m. on are devoted to soul-disco, and on Sunday mornings from 11:30 a.m. - 2 p.m. classical music is played. Other special programs on WRUC include: \The Every Thursday Night Concert Series\ (Thurs. nights 11 - 2) and The Neglected Album Hour (Midnight on Sundays). Future programming plans include \Wavebreaker a syndicated weekly new-wave show. Aside from music, WRUC broadcasts most major Union sports games both at home and away. WRUC also subscribes to UPI News Service, and provides many cooperative community func- tions such as the \job line.\ In short WRUC offers something for everyone both on and off the Union campus. Mountebanks' \Records Night\ There seems to be an inherent desire in man to be \the best.\ Hmnan beings derive a certain amount of satisfaction out of being the fastest, strongest, largest, oldest, etc. lienee, we have the \world record.\ World records take on all forms. In April of 1974,Bruce Stewart and Robert Argust- set the world record for continual face slapping by putting up with 31 hours of it. Johann Thiem holds the world record for grave digging having dug 23,311 graves in his fifty-year career. On June 17, 1971 David Mann joined the \Guiness crowd\ by eating 130 prunes in 105 seconds. Sevami Maujgiri Moharig distinguished himself by setting a record for continual standing; he remained upright for 17 years! (He leaned against a plank to sleep) . Tuesday night, February 16, is your chance to capture a piece of the glory that men like these felt. Mountebanks invites the entire campus to attend and participate in the first annual \Mountebanks Records Night\ from 10-12 p.m. in the Caberet Room. Although there are no promises that any world records will be set, a great deal of excitement and laughter is assured. Four main events will be held in an attempt to determine \Union Records\ : 1) The quickest student to solve the always frustrating , Rubik's Cube. (Each cube will be preset in a uniform manner.) 2} The fastest two-man team to devour half of an uncut pizza. (Courtesy of the Pub. ) 3) The fastest man-woman to down a 12 ounce stein of beer. 4) An event seeking to set a Union record for the most consecutive successful \quarters\ shots. (Everyone may participate in this event at your own table; your waiter or waitress will serve as your judge.) Prizes for the winners wili be specially silk-screened \Mountebanks' Records Night\ t-shirts. Those interested in signing up for any event should either call Irene Fassler (370- 6900) or sign up in the Cabaret Room on Tuesday night. Tickets for -\Mountebanks' Records Night\ go on sale Monday at 1 p.m. and are modestly priced at $1. The M.C. for the night is Rob Quish and between each event music will be supplied by various Moun- tebanks guitarists and singers . Beer and popcorn will be ser- ved. See you on Tuesday! ! ! Theta Delta Chi featuring BAND PARTY FRI., February 12th 10 p.m.

Page 8 CONCORiJIENSIS, February 11, 198~ ~--------------~--------------~------- Editorials ~ Letters ~ COillllleQtary All Must Answer For the second week in a row, 'the editorial will concern itself with the incident that occurred nearly two weeks ago, Saturday night, January 30. The reasons are that the incident brought to light some vitally important points, areas that deserve a long close look and serious comment. The facts of the matter have, for the most part, been determined. Dean Spring has completed and sent along his report on the incident to Presldent Morris. What remains now is for justice to be done, and for those responsible to be made to answer for their actions. As far as the formal courts are concerned, the whole matter was simply dropped by Judge Harrigan of Schenectady Pollee Court. The judge decided to dismiss all ten of the people arrested in connection with the incident by handing down an \A.C.D.\ decision, that ts, \adjourned contemplating dismissal.'' Even those who pleaded guilty were allowed to change their plea and have their case dismissed. While this was clearly welcome news for those arrested, Judge Harrigan ended the case on a sour note by failing to sum up the situation accurately. After referring to the ten who were arrested .(in- cluding the five non-Union students) as \the Union College Glee Club,\ Judge Harrigan failed to address the Union and non-Union individuals at all differently. Anyone who did not know any better could only have assumed that all ten were Union students. The Judge's lecture referred to the incident as the \kind of thing which happens at Union often.\ Here on campus, the Conduct Committee will act as the official judiciary body investigating the incident. This is an important fact to consider. The school Administration has decided to let students them- selves judge the situation. The Conduct Committee should take great care in dealing with this sensitive issue. There exists a whole series of questions that the Conduct Committee must provide answers to if at all possible. Who was responsible for the visiting guests? Who provoked the incident? Did the College act properly, or was Security not strong enough? What kind of precautions can be taken to prevent such occurrences in the future? And there exists the very delicate question of determir!ing the \climate of the racial environment.'' In pursuit of these answers, the Conduct Committee will hear charges brought against everyone involved in the incident in any way, regardless of their ap- parent guilt or innocence. This is the fairest and most thorough way to deal with the situation. Mr. Asare (He~~p.l)~~an~~~~~~~~-~==========~=~~=~;:::::::=========== involving his apparent misrepresentation and t' falsification regarding the scheduling of the party. If he is found guilty, harsh penalties should be imposed. His treatment should be harsh not because of the . incident which occurred that night, but because of the apparent deception that was involved prior to the actual incident. B.L.A.S. must be either found responsible or totally cleared of their involvement in the party that night. This is an issue that has become more clouded over the past few days, and its conclusion will have im- portant bearing on the status of B.L.A.S. within the campus community. Psi Upsilon is also being brought up on charges because they allegedly were involved, to some un- determined extent, in either verbal or physical actions that were apparently racist in nature. If it is shown that they are gui.Jty of such action, the context of such actions must also be taken into account, but such actions must not, under any circumstances, be tolerated here at Union. Also brought up on charges· are those Union students arrested that night. If the court's decision is any indication of the true involvement . of these students in the incident, then the Conduct Committee should, in turn, dismiss the case against these in- dividuals who have already had to endure much more than anyone connected With the incident up to this point. An examination of the reactions of the student population during the incident should be undertaken, however, because in other situations, obeying the requests of the. Schenectady Police Department may be of vital importance and their requests must be heeded. The situation then is one that requires answers to some very important questions. Justice · will be determined, and rightfully so, by students, namely the Conduct Committee. Examination of the answers to the questions posed as a result of the incident should be an educational experience; one where we evaluate the causes of such an incident and then take steps to insure that such unfortunate incidents do not hap,pen· again. . ~~I)I:D IN I~ . .;; ~ d~ ctoncor 6 .:~': bitnsts o-~~o Editors-in~Chief Associate Editor ·Managing Editor News Editor Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors 'clt.l L '-:'· ~NJcT~<O'~' Paul Grossman, Naomi Blank Rachel I. Mandel Diane Pavacic A.J. Brodsky - Jucu Lee t;hervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein · Maria Manfredonia Charts Richards National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner Copy Editor D.C. Owens Sports Editors Drew Hl.!l\ley Rob Norton Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher ·Cartoonist ~ David Neiblurn · Julie Abehilan, Joey Beckennan, Norman Birnbach, . Sue Bloomberg, Thomas Ching, RobertS. Driscoll, Chris Eshelman,. David Fitzgerald, Sharon Feldman, Donna tietson, P.s:Girsdansky, LeiselGolden, Mike Hunt, Deborah Levine~ Tom Megerian, Rich Mintz, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr; Brian Quint, Daniel Rosenfield, Eric W. Ruben, Martin Sands, E.J. Sapir, Michael Sharp, Andrew Sobel, Steve Van Ness, Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne Business Staff Jennifer Amler, Maryann Gagliardi; Evel.YD Gurdin Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris, III Photo Staff Janet Guiliano, Robert Tang . ·coNCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563u7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. . CONCORDIENSIS Subscribes to the CoU,ege Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News BureaU. (CNB).

_P_a_g_e_s _________________ CONCORDIENSIS, February 11, 198~ ---------------------- Editorials ~ Letters ~ COII11l1e:Qtary All Must Answer For the second week in a row, the editorial will concern itself with the incident that occurred nearly two weeks ago, Saturday night, January 30. The reasons are that the incident brought to light some vitally important points, areas that deserve a long close look and serious comment. The facts of the matter have, for the most part, been determined. Dean Spring has completed and sent along his report on the incident to President Morris. What remains now is for justice to be done, and for those responsible to be made to answer for their actions. As far as the formal courts are concerned, the whole matter was simply dropped by Judge Harrigan of Schenectady Police Court. The judge decided to dismiss all ten of the people arrested in connection with the incident by handing down an '' A.C.D.'' decision, that is, ·'adjourned contemplating dismissal.'' Even those who pleaded guilty were allowed to change their plea and have their case dismissed. While this was clearly welcome news for those arrested, Judge Harrigan ended the case on a sour note by failing to sum up the situation accurately. After referring to the ten who were arrested (in- cluding the five non-Union students) as \the Union College Glee Club,\ Judge Harrigan failed to address the Union and non-Union individuals at all differently. Anyone who did not know any better could only have assumed that all ten were Union students. The Judge's lecture referred to the incident as the \kind of thing which happens at Union often.\ Here on campus, the Conduct Committee will act as the official judiciary body investigating the incident. This is an important fact to consider. The school Administration has decided to let students them- selves judge the situation. The Conduct Committee should take great care in dealing with this sensitive issue. There exhtsa whole series of questions that the Conduct Co-mmittee must provide answers to if at all possible. Who was responsible for the visiting guests? Who provoked the incident? Did the College act properly, or was Security not strong enough? What kind of precautions can be taken to prevent such occurrences in the future? And there exists the very delicate question of determining the \climate of the racial environment.'' In pursuit of these answers, the Conduct Committee will hear charges brought against everyone involved in the incident in any way, regardless of their ap- parent guilt or innocence. This is the fairest and most thorough way to deal with the situation. Mr. Asare l see article, p. 1) must answer to formal charges involving his apparent misrepresentation and falsification regarding the scheduling of the party. If he is found guilty, harsh penalties should be imposed. His treatment should be harsh not because of the incident which occurred that night, but because of the apparent deception that was involved prior to the actual incident. B.L.A.S. must be either found responsible or totally cleared of their involvement in the party that night. This is an issue that has become more clouded over the past few days, and its conclusion will have im- portant bearing on the status of B.L.A.S. within the campus community. Psi Upsilon is also being brought up on charges because they allegedly were involved, to some un- determined extent, in either verbal or physical actions that were apparently racist in nature. If it is shown that they are guilty of such action, the context of such actions must also be taken into account, but such actions must not, under any circumstances, be tolerated here at Union. Also brought up on charges are those Union students arrested that night. If the court's decision is any indication of the true involvement of these students in the incident, then the Conduct Committee should, in turn, dismiss the case against these in- dividuals who have already had to endure much more than anyone connected with the incident up to this point. An examination of the reactions of the student population during the incident should be undertaken, however, because in other situations, obeying the requests of the Schenectady Police Department may be of vital importance and their requests must be heeded. The situation then is one that requires answers to some very important questions. Justice will be determined, and rightfully so, by students, namely the Conduct Committee. Examination of the answers to the questions posed as a result of the incident should be an educational experience; one where we evaluate the causes of such an incident and then take steps to insure that such unfortunate incidents do not happen again. Editor's No1e Retort To the Editors: Your rebuttal to my letter last week shows what can happen when the power and credibility of a position such as editor results in virtuoso antics. Y()ur contention that BLAS was in no way responsible fQr the in* cident on the morning of Jan. 31 is not as clear~cut as you pur· port. BLAS members say they were not aware the party was registered in their. name; yet promotion for the party ad* vertised it as a BLAS function. This advertising included radio ads and posters. We all realize the responsibility intrinsic in hosting a party. B~ had ample time to get the ad- vertising changed before the party. This would have set straight who actually was sponsoring the party. It would seem logical to get this promotiQn corrected since BLAS contends they told Thomas Asare they did not want the BLAS name used to rent the Old Chapel. By endorsing the use of their organization's name for promotion; they thus en· trusted their responsibility to the judgment of Thom~s Asare. Surely BLAS did not intend for anything like Sunday morning 1 s incident to . occur and they helped greatly in squelching the explosive situation. Yet it is obvious that they did not use enough care in endorsing and supporting the event. You misinterpreted my in· tentions as singling out BLAS as · a club that should be restricted. What I actually expressed was . the opinion that the incident should be dealt with as a unique situation. I qualify this statement by the belief that present guidelines have been successful for events put on by dorms, fraternities, and clubs: L ~·t···t· ·· f)r·· ':: .. • ---- \'' . --~ ·-, ......... -. -: .. ·o happened a.nd each time the Intramural Directors make excuses and shift the blame onto one another. After each mix~up we are promised that it won't happen again, but sure enough ... well you know the result. Great promises were made a bout an improved Intramurals program, and it has improved relative to a few years back. But the truth is that intramurals are still run in an irresponsible fashion by in~ dividuals wh{) call themselves \Directors\ and are paid by the College as such. An incident this past week serves as a typical example of what goes on cnnsistently: Two broom ball teams,. a total of 25 students, showed up at Achilles Rink for their schedul~d 12:30 a.m. game, only to find no referee and no equipment waiting. When the captains tried to get in touch with the student direetors, we were told that one headed up to Saratoga, one' 11 didn't know. anything about the situation,\ and one \was not feeling weD\ and told us to go boerne and reschedule the game for some other time. It takes a lot of gall for on~ perS(In not to show up at the expense of 25 peopl~ who planned their evenings around the game. When we had no other recourse but to call T~m Collette at his home, we could not get through to him becaus~ an answering service interrupted the call, but didn't allow a mt)ssage to be left. Since one of the players on a team had refereed before, we called Security to have them open the Alumni Gym office so that we could get the key to the equipment room and play the game under his supervision. Of course, Security had no key which could open the door and all of our options were exhausted. What kind of system exists in which only the Intramural Dir~ctor has a key to an office which in turn contains the only key to allow access to equiP\ ment? We wish we could say that this was just an isolated inddent; a rare case of cr:ossed wires, but it has happened too consistently to be called just that. Anyone involved in in- tramural athletics know that to be the· case. We would have · directed our complaints to those · responsible for this problem, but this has never worked in the past. Thus, we are CQrnpelled to bring it intt) the open. We regret having to do so, but we urge tbe Administrators responsible for intramurals to talk to the ap* propriate persons to insure that the program will be run in a more organized fashion as they seem to have deaf ears to students' vokes. We've always thought it ironic that teams lose their $10.00 deposit for forfeiting games. Perhaps the new policy should be that students get reimbursed $10.00 for having their time wasted by ghost directors. Sincerely, The Avengers and Nads Broornball teams Representing 25 students Special Collections to Exhibit Soon To the Editors: Because of· the interest generated by the -recent acquisition of · the resignation letter of Reverend Jo-hn Blair Smith, Union's first president, • this document will be on view in a case on the first floor of the · library. After it has been exhibited the letter will be kept in the College Archives located in the Special Collections of the including BLAS. What harr ------------------- ....... ----~~ pened Sunday morning was a new situation involving many n<>n·collegiate students being at a party in an area where other Union parties were in progress. Possibly provisions for a more strin~ent registration policy, parttcularly registrant ac .. countability; would reduee the · chances of a similar incident. This is just one suggestion. while there will be other proposrus from people who have a more complete understanding 'Of re.Ievant fac.tors in making the decisions of how to deal with the problem. Hopefully, actions · subsequent to this incident will safeguard against future problems without restricting student lifestyles. John Wheeler Intramural Inefficiency To the Campus Community: You folks know the feeling well. How often have we looked forward to intramurals as a release of much tension that has · built up through the many other . pressures here at Union, and · how often have we prepared f()r a game gathering players and · \!alked up to the fi~ld, only to fu:t4 th,at nQ refere.e .·· bas, t:,epartf?~ to. his,.her. .iltlS~~ed,. , . tune sll>'t. ~P.Bf},t~D:tY_}~.,\a$. Editors-inMChief Associate Editor Managing Editor News Editor Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors Paul Grossman, Naomi Blank Rachel I. Mandel Diane Pavacic A.J. Brodsk.y · J uc:t1 Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner Copy Editor D.C. Owens Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher Cartoonist • David Neiblum Staff Julie Abehnan, Joey Beckerman, Norman Birnbach, Sue Bloomberg, Thomas Ching, RobertS. Driscoll, Chris Eshelman, David Fitzgerald, Sharon Feldman, Donna Uetson, P .S. Girsdansky, Leisel Golden, Mike Hunt, Deborah Levine,. Torn Megerian, Rich Mintz, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Brian Quint, Daniel Rosenfield, Eric W. Ruben, Martin Sands, E .J. Sapir, Michael Sharp, Andrew Sobel, Steve Van Ness, Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne Business Staff Jennifer Amler, Maryann Gagliardi, Evelyn Gurd.in Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris, III Photo Staff Janet Guiliano, Robert Tang CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the CoUege Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB) .

-------------------------------------O-O_N_O~O_B_D_I_EN __ ._SI_S~,_F_e_b_nw __ r~y~11~,_1_98_~-·--~~~------------------------P:_a~g~e~. 9 Letters Editorials Comme nta-r.r: For the Record By DAN ROSEN.FIELD Columnist Last Monday I was asked to attend a most educational meeting of the Student Forum. I was afforded a chance to see first hand how the student tax dollars are frittered away. Consider, first, WRUC. They were asking for $1 ,000 to replace their record hop eqUipment. The record hop manag.er claimed that the new equipment would be better, and that it would last longer. He claimed that the old equipment wasn't even the right kind of equip- ment. Of course, he did.n,'t mention that the old equipment was a commercially produced system that was specifically designed for record hops. The record hop manager also said that the particular turntable currently in use is out of date., and therefore the turntables are no longer usable. The manufacturers and commercial suppliers that I talked with all informed me that such turn- tables are still industry stan- dard. Furthermore, they are inexpensive and easy to mairitain, and should have a life expectancy of at least ten years. ' The record hop manager also claimed that tilting the turn- tables on their sides to transport them would ruin them. Not so, claimed the manufacturers. When told this, the record hop 17nanager insisted that I (and therefore the manufacturer) was wrong, and that I didn't know what l was talking about. The old equipment was only bought two years ago, and that isn't very old. However, as WRUC has admitted, the equipment has been badly abused. The new system will supposedly be abuse-proof, because it will be transported in a fancy case. However, the old system was abused while it was being used, not transported- someone spilled beer on the mixer. I suspect that the new system will be just as vulnerable when it comes to having beer spilled on it during use. Two weeks ago, the radio station was also granted $2,020 for two new turntables for the A studio. According to the general manager of WRUC, they are the best turntables available. According to a commercial supplier that I asked, they are outdated, overpriced, and not worth the money. The supplier went on to say that WRUC's turntables are only two years older among those best suited for a college station. The general manager Student Benefits Plummet claimed that to repair the turntables (which are still working) would cost $150 each. The cost of an idler wheel (one of the internal parts) would be $90, says the general manager. According to R.ussco, the manufacturer of the turntables, the ·Current rate is $16 per idler wheel. I never determined what the other $60 was for. Further, Russco ·estimated that the life expectancy of the turntables when they are taken care of, should be at least 5-10 years, if not more. They are very simple, durable turntables. When asked about the discrepancy in the cost of the idler wheel, the general manager was hard pressed for an answer. The only justification for spending $1,000 on turntables was that some large commercial stations in New York City and WRPI have them. All of those stations are considerably larger and not really comparable to WRUC. Along with one of the members of the Forwn, I looked at one of the turntables in A Studio. The paint is scratched, the idler wheel needs replacing (the manufacturer suggests that this be done once a year anyway), and the platter bearing was rusty. But then, it doesn't matter; they are going to buy new ones. This is the traditional By MARTIN SANDS Columnist Are Financial Aid recipients JR~!,.,§f!J:,ID~N'\~'**'\\\'\''\\m*'&\''j'w\''\''rt'('\'\'ioi\MI of Union College really in the '\\·;''\'''\''\mt'\N''''\'·'''''\'%\'\'''\\'\''\''''\''''\'~\\~' 1 wN<',B''*\'\'''\'I\'\'''I dark a bout their future finan- cial support? Personally, I think they are. In review, students fulfill their financial obligations in basically four .,.\w:;:\w'\*'•w:-w»~:M;r.MM::#'W'''*\'*tgnm:N!U%;®<%\~'I ways: scholarship, work-study I·' '~''*WtW%1'M¥lJifMI!J!IIWlm!®.:uw.0¥'\\'w 1 o/W1i'llAM!!i®i'l job, guaranteed student loans, l·,.,,,*',mwmwn::?,\llij~ftift:~G) 4 !1S!mm•&\WNKW'~''NJ and Pell Grants. In the past, Union has been generous '\' 1 '\\'\\'''''~mM'¥~rnww;:\''''*''f%M''\'w''·•w-~'''';*~'\'\.''''''''\ 1 towards assisting the student body in making financial ends meet. Unfortunately, a great deal of Federal money has been drastically cut since the Reagan Administration came to power. Most people who have been following the Reagan Administration realize where he has been making his cuts. Two major areas are Education and Social Seeurity. Social Security benefits for students - have plumrrietted and those recipients, such as those with one or both parents deceased, have been left with a large financial burden. Since the elderly represent a cohesive voting block, S.S. cuts towards them have not been drastically reduced. In contrast, since students do not represent a cohesive voting block, cuts towards the have been exor- bitant. As of 1982, students that presently depend on Social Security as a major part of their income, will not receive anything in the months of May, June, July and August. Fur- thermore, starting in Sep- tember of 1982, students receiving these benefits will find that their Social Security checks have been reduced by 25 percent. What will all of this mean? Well, someone must take the \Ke.Y! t C.M\ Fe~\. \1-W~~ \Ui~\\la MtOUl\~!\ responsibility for providing for this loss or those students dependent on the S.S. money will not be able to continue their present college education. On the whole, students will lose approximately 50 percent of their Social Security by the end of 1983. Currently, less and less money from the national government is being allocated for American colleges. If this trend continues, the calibre and intellectual prominence of American students will decline. Eventually, this will mean that the future will only permit and educate those students who can independently finance their education. This seems to be a move away from our concept of equal opportunity. As a result, the future of American colleges does not appear favorable. In summation, the future of . American colleges appears dim and Union College is certainly no exception. In addition, now that the Financial Aid Office at Union is clearly in the limelight, it is apparent that they_ have done little to make Union students aware of all that is going on. Recently, Mr. Robert Massa, an important figure in the Financial Aid Office, has made an honorable attempt (in his workshops), to inform people about financial a i.d and what they can and must do to receive support. However, it is my belief that his emphasis should be redirected towards informing Union students of the mounting national problem and how it is going to affect them. It is my contention that this is their l'esponsibility. The future of Union's Financial Aid recipients could be greatly aided by a Financial Aid Office that is more in touch with its students on national events that will financially affect them as well as on basic financial in- formation. Editor's Note: Mr. Sands' opinion is his own. We welcome your tespoDSes. WRUC ''maintenance problem.\ . The radio station would not have their \buy-buy-buy\ at- titude if they were not allowed to do so by the Student Forwn. The Tax Conunittee, who ad- mittedly knows little about this type of equipment, did not try to get an informed opinion as to the need for the $1,000 turn- tables, or new turntables at all. When it was mentioned that the figure provided by the radio station for the cost of parts was inflated by more than 600 percent, there was only a silence. When the Tax Com- mittee chairman and several of his colleagues were told in detail about the turntables and the industry's opinionofthem, they responded that u· t Tax Committee wasn't a ful... time job and that they didn't have time to check things out. The chfiirman suggested that someone else try to dissuade the radio station from buying the equipment. So what's to show for the money that student tax has had to distribute for the years that I have been here? A number of two year old turntables? Does it matter? Probably not. Most likely the system will not change; it will me1ely continue. Just \for the reco1d\ a remedy does exist. It would entail putting formal non-student advisers in the Forum and in every club, especially capital intensive ones. The adviser would have the final say in all matters. Ideally, they would only use their veto as a last resort, and whenever possible teaching and advising the students how to do their jobs properly. That way students would learn how to make rational and logical decisions. The radio station would realize that $1,000 turntables are unreasonable and consequently, the Forum would not allow the radio station io buy them because they would realize that Union cannot afford and doesn't need such grandiosity.

to . · to at a to st t t : -----------------------------~---------o __ O_N_O_O_B_D_·_IE __ N_S_IS_,_F __ eb_rua ___ r~y_1_1~,_1_98_2 __________________________________ P_a~g~e ___ 9 library . where it will be available to be seen by any inte.r((!sted member of the Uni()n community. I would like to remind people that it is p6ssible to see any of the materials housed in the Special CoUec· tions during tile hour~ when it is open (Monday 12:30 - 4:30, Thursday 6:3'0 ~ 12:30, and Tuesday, Wednesday, and Friday 8:3Q • ·4:30). These materials are not arranged for browsing but the archiVist or a member of the library staff will be glad to assist y()U. We welcome any interest in the· acquisition, preservation, and use of materials pertaining to Union's history. --·· Girsdansky (\My Best Buddy, Wilma. n C(),<:ordhmsis, January 21 ), who use Cohoes as a target of ridicule. I can only assume that those opinions and attitudes are based on ignorance of Cohoest as they are not based on facts. Such· remarks are untrue, unfounded and unfair. As a resident of Cotroes, 1 resent it when the place where 1 live is the object of someone's sick joke. I certainly will not ~say that Cohoes is a perfect place. However, it has many pbints of' interest and historical value. Cohoes played 'a vitally important role in the Industrial Revolution and the Harmony Mills are a distinctive reminder of this fact. Also in Cohoes is the large~ waterfall (by vollmle) east of Niagara Falls. These and other features may be missed by those who see things with prejudiced attitudes and closed minds. Sincerely, Daniele Cherniak Commentary: Letters Editorials Commentary: For the Record By DAN ROSENFIELD Columnist Last Monday I was asked to attend a most educaHonal meeting of the Student Forum. I was afforded a chance to see first hand how the student tax dollars are frittered a way. Consider, first, WRUC. They were asking for $1,000 to replace their record hop equipment. T'he record hop manager c]aimed that the new equipment would be better, and that it \Vould last longer. He claimed that the old equipment wasn't e\Ven the right kind of equip- ment. Of course, he didn't mention that the olcl equipment was a commercially produced S:Ystem that was specifically d-esigned for record hops. The record hop manager also said that the particular turntable c1.1rrently in use is out of date, and therefore the turntables are n.() longer usable. The manufacturers and commercial su~pliers that I talked with all informed me that such turn- tables are sHU industry stan- dard. Furthermore, they are inexpensive and easy to maintain, and should have a life e:xpectancy of at least ten years. The record hop manager also claim.€d that tilting the turn- tables on their sides to transport them would ruin them. Not so, claimed the manufacturers. When told this, the record hop manager insisted that I (and therefore the manufacturer) was wrong, and that I didn't know what I was talking about. The old equipment was only bought two years ago, and that isn't very old. However, as WRUC has admitted, the equipment has been badly abused. The new system will supposedly be abuse-proof, because it wHl be transported in a fancy case. However, the old system was abused while it was being used, not transported- someone spilled beer on the mixer. I suspect that the new system will be just as vulnerable when it comes to having beer spilled on it during use. Two weeks ago, the radio statio11 was also granted $2,020 for two new turntables for the A studio, According to the general manager of WRUC, they are the best turntables available. According to a commercial supplier that I asked, they are outdated, overpriced, and not worth the money. The supplier went on to say that WRUC's turntables are only two years older among those best suited for a college station. The general manager From time to time we exhibit various items from the Special Colledions. Because of the large si:ze of our collections it is impossible to exhibit all those things which might be of in- terest. Howev~r, we are par- ticularly excited about an exhibition whkh is planned for spring term. lt will be an exhibition of approximately thirty-five ~ooks from the library's Rare Bo(lk Co1leetion. All of the books selected are first editions .and they represent a broad spectrum of knowledge. Many of the oook.s are treasures in every sense of the word. The exhibition notes are being written by various faculty members and we plan to make a · catalogue of the exhibition available to every student. This . . ambitious project is co~ sponsored by the Library and the Friends of the Union College Library. We hope that everyone will take the opportunity to see this ex:hibition of rare and in· fluential books when it opens in the spring. Student Benefits Plummet claimed that to repair the turntables (which are still working) would cost $150 each. The cost of an idler wheel (one of the internal parts) would be $90, says the general manager. According to Russco, the manufacturer of the turntables, the current rate is $16 per idler wheel. I never determined what the other $60 was for. Further, Russco ·estimated that the life expectancy of the turntables when they are taken care of, should be at least 5-10 years, if not more. They are very simple, durable turntables. When asked about the discrepancy in the cost of the idler wheel, the general manager was hard pressed for an answer. The only justification for spending $1,000 on turntables was that some large commercial stations in New York City and WRPI have them. All of those stations are considerably larger and not really comparable to WRUC. Along with one of the members of the Forum, I looked at one of the turntables in A Studio. The paint is scratched. the idler wheel needs replacing (the manufacturer suggests that this be done once a year anyway), and the platter bearing was rusty. But then, it doesn't matter; they are going to buy new ones. This is the traditional WRUC ·•maintenance problem.\ Sineerely, Ellen Fladger Archivist Schaffer Library Cohoes Resident Defends. City To the Editors: l wisll to direct this letter to those Union students like Paul By MARTIN SANDS Columnist Are Financial Aid recipients of Union College really in the dark about their future finan- cial support? Personally, I think they are. In review, students fulfill their financial obligations in basically four ways: scholarship, work-study job, guaranteed student loans, and Pell Grants. In the past, Union has been generous towards assisting the student body in making financial ends meet. Unfortunately, a great deal of Federal money has been drastically cut since the Reagan Administration came to power. Most people who have been following the Reagan Administration realize where he has been making his cuts. Two major areas are Education and Social Security. Social ._ __________ __, Security benefits for students have pllUllmetted and those recipients, such as those with one or both parents deceased, have been left with a large financial burden. Since the elderly represent a cohesive vding block, S.S. cuts towards them have not been drastically reduced. In contrast, since students do not represent a C<lhesive voting block, cuts towards the have been exor- bitant. As of 1982, students that presently depend on Social S.ecurity as a major part of their income, will not receive anything in the months of May, June, July and August. Fur- thermore, starting in Sep- tember of 1982, students receiving these benefits will fi.nd that their Social Security cllecks have been reduced by 25 p.ercent. What will all of this mean? Well, someone must take the responsi bulity for providing for this loss or those students dependent on the S.S. money will not be able to continue their present college education. On the whole, students will lose appro:ximately 50 percent of their Social Security by the end of 1983. Currently, less and less mone }' from the national govermnent is being allocated for American colleges. If this trend continues, the calibre and intellectual prominence of American students will decline. Eventually, this will mean that the future will only permit and educate those students who can independently finance their education. This seems to be a move away from our concept of equal opportunity. As a result, the future of American colleges does not appear favorable. In summation, the future of American colleges appears dim and Union College is certainly no exception. In addition, now that tlle Financial Aid Office at Union is clearly in the limelight, it is apparent that they have done little to make Union stude11ts aware of all that is going on, Recently, Mr. Robert Massa, an important figure in the Financial Aid Office, has made an honorable attempt (in his 'Workshops), to inform people about financial a i.d and what they can and must do to receive support. However, it is my belief that his emphasis should be redirected towards informing Union students of the mounting national problem and how it is going to affect them. It is m:_y contention that this is their responsibility. The future of Union's Financial Aid recipients could be greatly aided by a Financial Aid Office that is more in touch with its students on national events that will financially affect them as well as on basic financial in- formation. EdUur's Note: Mr. Sands' opinion is his own. We welcome y()ur resp()nses. The radio station would not have their \buy-buy-buy\ at· titude if they were not allowed to do so by the Student Forum. The Tax Committee, who ad- mittedly knows little about this type of equipment, did not try to get an informed opinion as to the need for the $1,000 turn- tables, or new turntables at all. When it was mentioned that the figure provided by the radio station for the cost of parts was inflated by more than 600 percent, there was only a silence. When the Tax Com- mittee chairman and several of his colleagues were told in detail about the turntables and the industry's opinion of· hem, they responded that tl · Tax Committee wasn't a fuL time job and that they didn't have time to check things out. The chairman suggested that someone else try to dissuade the radio station from buying the equipment. So what's to show for the money that student tax has had to distribute for the years that I have been here? A number of two year old turntables? Does it matter? Probably not. !Vfost likely the system will not change; it will merely continue. Just \for the record\ a remedy does exist. It would entail putting formal non-student advisers in the Forum and in every club, especially capital intensive ones. The adviser would have the final say in all matters. Ideally, they would only use their veto as a last resort, and whenever possible teaching and advising the students how to do their jobs properly. That way students would learn how to make rational and logical decisions. The radio station would realize that $1,000 turntables are tmreasonable and consequently, the Forum would not allow the radio station to buy them because they would realize that Union cannot afford and doesn't need such grandiosity.

Page 10 OONOORDIENSIS, FebT1Utry 11; 198! •Killer' Assassin Shot by Campus Police students talking through the university. Tulane police of- fi~ers issued a similar warning last. spring. Amherst Disbands (CPS)-Qfficials at Cal State University-Long Beach are still piecing together the facts surrounding the shooting of a student believed to have been playing a simulated assassination game. Mean- while, the college law en- farcement community ts rallying to take precautions to avoid similar incidents on other campuses. Director of Public Affairs Bob Breunig, \when he saw two people getting oQt of a car and cocking what appeared to be shotguns.\ When King told the students to halt, BrelUlig says, Reagan pointed his toy weapon at the officer. King, unaware the gun was a toy, fired, hitting Reagan twice~ ''We didn't even know the games existed,',. Brick says. \But now we've gotten calls from all 1,wer the country about similar_ games on other cam- puses.-Th~ UCLA chief of pOlice tole me his officers almost fired at a bunch of students who jumped out at them from some bushes! They had toy guns and lampblack smeared all over their faces, and darn near got shot.\ 'Delta House' Cal State student Michael Reagan was shot twice by campus security officer Stephen King, an 11-year veteran of the department, when King mistook a toy gun that Reagan was brandishing for a realgun. Reagan, who was hospitalized in critical con- dition, is expected to recover fully from· the woWlds. Although Reagan denies he was playi.ilg an assassination game, police suspect he was part of one similar to those popular on othet campuses nationwide. (AP)-After discovering a headless skeleton, two stuffed roosters and a motorcycle in the fraternity house - and a 6-foot- high phallic ice sculpture on the lawn -Amherst College has had it with \Delta House.\ Delta Upsilon Delta fraternity has become the first .frat in more than a decade to be disbanded in disgrace for misbehavior at the exclusive liberal arts college where tuition and room and board cost $9,800 a year. College President Julian Gibbs decreed last week that Delta Upsilon \will cease to exist or to operate as a fraternity or social organization, effeictive im- mediately,\ Dean of Students Erwin Nussbaum said Monday. \Please don't refer to it as 'Delta House,\' Nussbaum added. ''That was the name of the fraternity in that movie, 'Animal House.' There should be no correlation.\ But some Deltas jovially concede that the moniker \Animal House\ has been hung on their former organization by their fellow students - and not without reason. \A lot of things we did were pretty stupid, but some of them were really funny,'' said one fraternity member Monday, who asked not to be identified, as some of his brothers an- nounced their return to the house for lunch with shouts of \Fire! Fire! \ \It's a shame, of course,\ said fraternity treasurer Jack Kiley, a sophomore from Bayside, N.Y. \We didn't think our actions warranted it. The people in the house are sad- dened. But we don't expect to take any violent retribution, even thoUgh the people who closed us down seem to think we are capable of that.\ The fraternity, which had 22 men and five women members, had been on disciplinary probation since November, when four members were arrested during its annual \scavenger hunt\ on a variety of charges, including disorderly conduct and larceny. Police said they recovered 95 items from the house - in- cluding furniture, paintings, silverware, a headless skeleton, two stuffed roosters, a moose head and a motorcycle - that were taken from area colleges and businesses. And police contended they were accosted by a frat member waving a baseball bat \who appeared to have been drinking\ when they attempted to remove the goods. Gibbs' decision to disband Delta Upsilon was based on the report of an ad hoc committee of four faculty members and three students. The committee found that the atmosphere of Delta Upsilon \seems to be defiant, self- assertive and defensive - as· reflected, we believe, in such joint enterprises as con- structing a six-foot-high phallic ice sculpture on the fraternity's front lawn, and marching en masse to another house to rectify (by physical in- tervention) an alleged wrong to a 'brother.\' \We didn't do it,\ Kiley said of the offending sculpture, claiming the current Deltas are being punished for the misdeeds of previous members who graduated several years ago. ''I've never heard of anything so totally reprehensivle,\ he declared with only a hint of a giggle. \I can't imagine any self-respecting Amherst student doing anything like that.\ ACROSS 4 Dipper 5 Preposition 1 Saute 6 Devoured 4 Burden 7 Transaction 8 Sp. title 8 Insect 11 Region 9 Fish eggs 12Poker stake 10 Ventilate 13 Luau fare 11 Singing voice 14 French article 16 Three-toed 15 Insane sloth 17 Simpler 18 Witnessed 19 Man's nick- 20 Canine name 22 Toiled 21 Sick 25 Tatter 23 Young boy 27 Scottish cap 24 Aroma 29 Goal 26 Consume 30 Beam 28 Sport 32 In favor of 31 Opening 34 Condensed 33 Evil moisture 35 Inlet 36 Greek letter 36 Babylonian 37 Be ill deity 39 Grain 38 Made neat 40 Physician: · 41 Pronoun colloq. 42 Gratuity 43 Procession 44 Paddle 45 Sorrow 47 Woe word 49 Beverage 51 Hint 54 Decay 56 Plunge 58 Meadow 59 Scheduled 62 Yellow ocher 64 State: Abbr. 65 Youngster 66 Seed coating 68 Leave out 70 Reverence 71 Harp 72 Tiny DOWN 1 Liberated 2 Scale note 3 Sweet potato \Officer King was patrolling the campus on the night Qf the shooting,\ recalls CSU-LB CROSS WORD PUZZLE FROM COLLEGE PRESS SERVICE 46 Cloth measure 48 Drunkard 50 Passageway 52 Weird 53 Linger 55 River duck 57 Greek letter 59 As written: Mus. 60 Ordinance 61 Arid 63 Base 67 Negative pre- fix 69 Pronoun answer on page 6 . Jack Brick, head of the campus police, says Reagan claimed he and his friend were playing hide-and-seek at the time. Brick contends King was blameless. \It was dark and foggy, and they were carrying replicas of M-16 semi-automatic riOes, complete with scopes. The officer had - no way of knowing they were toys.\ Before the i.ilcident,.a gr.owing number of campuses and college police officers had actively disapproved of the assassination games - which are called names like Killer, Godfather, Assassin, and KAOS (for Killing As An Organized Sport). At least eight campuses have banned the game, in which students stalk and \attack\ each other with toy guns or rubber darts. This fall, University of Florida campus police officer Atkins Warren warned the game could \turn into a real disaster\ if officers saw International Association of Campus Law Enforcement Administrators leader James L. McGovern was \shocked\' when informed of the Long Beach i.ilcident. ''Youmeantheycarry around guns and point them at one another?\ he asked in- credulously. \I would hope they knew better.\ . , McGovern says his organization, will not investigate the game, and alert campus security directors around the country. Long Beach officials, who say they expect a lawsuit will be filed against them in connection with the incident, are con· sidering measures to ban the game there. Brick notes the irony. \When I first came here ten years ago, there was a big battle over arming the campus police. Now the students are playing with guns, and pretending to kill one another.\ March of Dimes SAVES BABIES PLEASE HELP .FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS The Campus S1ore P-resents: PEANUTs·® by Charles M. Sch·ulz OUR TEACHER SAYS WE HAVE TO 14AVE A VALENTINE 130X SO MERE rr 15 ... I DON'T THINK MY Sll>EET 13ABBOO WOULD 61VE ME A VALENTINE. AN'YWA.V ... I'M NOT YOUR ''SWEET BABBOO'' AND HOW DO YOU KNOW !'WOULDN'T 61VE '(OU A VALENTINE IF r WERE YOUR ''5WEET B,L\6&00: 1 WHICH I'M NOT?! . :1 F '{OUR SWEET 6ABBOO WAj\IT~ TO 61VE YOU A . BOX OF CAND~ HE'LL HAVE TO 61VE IT TO YOll ELSEWHERE ••. SEE THE PROBLEM, MA 1 AM? J tl s s s \ \ t s 1: (

the ice of- the says. calls y about ca:tn- pOlice fired who and over got of L. Beach around at one d in- pe they his us the say be con- an the \When ago, over Now with one CONOORDIICNSIS, February 11, 1982. A Racist King Party Bolls Campus (CPS)-While many colleges were celebrabng the Rev .. Martin Luther King's Jr.'s birthday with memorials and special events to honor the slain civil rights leader, a fraternity at the University of Cincinnati threw a \Second Annual Martin Luther King TrashParty\- an event that has campus blacks in an uproar. \We look at it as much more than -a fraternity prank,\ says Chris Mack, president .of the United Black Association (UBA) on campus. \It was extremely racist and degrading for black people in general. We're asking for permanent suspension of the fraternity.\ Sigma Alpha Epsilon, the fraternity which hosted the party, has been suspended indefinitely from the university pending a full review ·Of the event by the Inter-Fraternity Council. Members of SAE, reportedly the largest and most socially active fraternity on the 40,000- student campus, are refusing to comment about the party. The fraternity promoted the January 17 event through flyers that were secretly distributed to selected students, fraternities, sororities, and members of the student government. \To gain entrance to this wonderful event you must bring one or more of the following,\ the flyer told students, going on to list such things as \a bucket of Kentucky Fried Chicken,\ \a radio bigger than, your head,\ \a cancelled welfare check,\ or \a bottle ..of Afro-sheen.\ Since the promotion was secret, the university is still investigating the extent that other fraternities and sororities were involved in the party. Administrators suspect a similar party was held last year without coming to the attention of the general student population, as this year's party did. \I was appalled by the whole thing,\ says a member of the student gov.ernment who declined an invitation to the party. \I'm white, but I'm also Jewish, and I know that what happened could just as easily be done to me.\ According to reports by students who attended the party, \It was one big evening of humiliating and mocking blacks.\ Many of the people attending the party had black paint on their faces and were \mimicking outdated, stereotyped images of blacks,\ sources say. Members of a local sorority reportedly attended the event dressed as members of the Ku Klux: Klan. \We regret that the whole- thing took place,\ comments Ken Service, spokesman for the university. \Those kinds of actions do not meet the stan- dards we expect as a university~ The fraternity has been of- ficially suspended as a result of their actions. We felt that because of the nature of the offenses something had to be done right a way.\ But black students are still infuriated over the event, and are worried that racist behavior on the campus is on the in- crease. \We've been having quite a few problems lately,\ remarks DBA President Mack. For in- stance, he says, fihns such as \Birth of a Nation'' have become popular on campus. Muck also says that blacks are not receiving enough cooperation from the ad- ministration or the student government. \Botll groups are basically covering each other's behinds,\ Mack as:sects. . \I don't know what he ex- pects,•• Service responds. \The event is not typical of our school. Our Homecoming king and queen this year were both black. We are ·one of the three tap universities in the country as far as retaining minority graduate students. We're doing all we can to let people know that we deplore wh~t happened. I'm confident that the frater- nity's suspension iS· going to stick, and at a sufficient level to make it clear that we will not tolerate that kind <Jf activity.\ place to make a statement,'' says Guy Glaser, vice president of the student government. ''What did happen was wrong and shouldn't have occurred. But the more you get involved in these types of things, the more trouble you cause. We represent a lot of people on this campus. A lot of people.\ Women Prefer Mixed Games Although the UC Student Senate condemned tile \racist activities\ and \acts of ignorance\ rega·rding the party, top members of the student government are remaining silent on the issue. ''I just do not feel that it is our Black students suspect the fraternity's ''power and in- fluence on campus\ may resuit in lenient punishment against the group, an action which they say would throw the campus into turmoil. \At this point, the situation is very tense,\ Mack says. \The 3,000 black students on this campus are very united. Should permanent suspension not be taken (against Sigma Alpha Epsilon), there will he some awful big protests. We are prepared to do whatever is necessary.'' Save Broadway, Nuke a Preppy (CH)-Are you tired of the preppy movement yet? A New York producer is hoping enough people are still intrigued by the tongue-in- cheek elitism of that fashion• culture trend, because he's agreed to finance a Broadway musical called - of course - \The Official Preppy Musical.\ debut. \New York far outpreps California,\ Birnbach com- ments. \The Harvard Club is here, and there are fewer toupees and. shag carpets in New York.\ (C?S)-College women seem to be participating less in women-only intramural sports, but more in mixed-gender team sports on campus, according to various college intramural officials around the country. \There's definitely a downward trend in exclusively women's sports here,'' says Roy Tutt, the University of Min- nesota's intramural program coordinator. \But on the other hand, we have more women participating in co-ed sports like touch football and vaolleyball.\ Most I.M. .of£icials echoed Tutt's observation. \There's been a little downturn in some (women only) sports,\ says Scott Steinman of the University of Florida, \but on the whole we've found women's participation on the increase, especially in the co-ed sports. Of course, w~ have an advantage climate-wise.\ At Oregon, \we feel good if we have even 20 women's teams participating,\ says I.M. Director Karla Rice. \On the other hand, we have at least 60 co-ed teams active right now.\ Athletic officials at Yale, Texas, UCLA and Penn State, among others, also report distinct increases in the number of women participating in mixed sex sports. They Cite a nwnber of causes for the phenomenon. Women, says Minnesota's Tutt, \seem to find more fun and motivation getting inv9lved in the co-ree sports. It's kind of a catalyst. Women don't have the same incentive playing woman-to-woman sports as they do men-to-wornen.\ Tutt thinks ''it seems the quite natural and healthy .direction to move in.\ There are exceptions. At the financially strained University of Micbigan, Rochelle Bast of the recreational sports department reperts \a slight decline (in women's par- ticipation), bllt not because of a laek of interest. Due to our financial problems, we've had to cut our program slightly and also raise our entrance fees. We're down about ten percent, but that's across the board, men as well as women.\ Things are worse at the University of Massachusetts- Amherst. Female intramural participation is \down way down,\ mourns I.M. Director Frank Wright. \We don't know what's wrong. They're just not turning out,'' he says. The number of women only volleyball teams fell from 14 in 1979-80 to seven last year, to five this year. Wright says women's participation in swimming is also \down while \in track we don't even have a women's team this year.\ Conversely, University of Illinois women are par- ticipating more, but not in mixed gender sports. \We've seen an increase in women's participation, but it has been in a self-fitness direction,\ says Debbie Bucher, the assistant intramural sports director. \We have a lot of open grounds and space at Illinois,\ she explains, \so there's been less concentration on team sports, and more on personal fitness programs. Our women are using our facilities mostly on their own.\ Producer Lester Osterman recently signed a deal with Lisa Birnbach, editor of \The Official Preppy Hanclbook,'' to stage the musical next season. Osterman's daughter, Pat Thackray, is currently. writing the stage book with Birnbach, who says she turned down other preppy entertainment. offers but thinks Broadway will be an appropriate place for a prep No lyricist or composer has been signed on, as yet, and there are indications both will have to meet certain qualifications. The choice of Osterman as producer was an obvious one, says Birnbach, because of his preppy credentials. ''He went to Columbia Grammar and the University of Virginia,\ she points out. \He has horse prints on his walls, and he used to have a seat on the New York Stock Exchange.\ P.U. Antics See The Valentines Day Personals. Page 13 (Cfi)-At Princeton U., students elected one group of campus clowns last year and will have a chance to elect a new one this spring. The Imperial Forces for the Resurrection of the Good Old Roman Empire have already begun their election campaign, sending toga-clad candidates out to rally support for a weigbty platform. It includes: requiring a five-semester course in Virgil, replacing the stadium with a coliseum, and doing away with the football team in favor of gladiatorial fights. The Imperial Forces are following in the footsteps of ALF (Antarctic Liberation Front) which elected three top student leaders to office last year. After instituting a dawn- to-dusk campus curfew and annexing all the property between the yellow lines of federal highways for Princeton, all three resigned. BE IN THE FOREFRONT OF TODAY'S TECHNOLOGY AS A SCIENTIFIC-ENGINEERING OFFICER Our scientific-engineering officers are planning and designing ~m~orrow's weapon systems today. Many are seeing their ideas .and conc~pts matenah~e. The¥ have the finest, state-of-the-art equipment to test their theones. The workmg envi- ronment is conducive to research. And Air Force ex-, perience is second to none. You can be part of this dynamic team if you have a scientific ~r engi!le~r~ng degree. Your first step will be Officer 1 rammg School. Help us shape our future as we help you start yours. Be a scientific-engineering officer in the Air Force. Contact your Air Force recruiter at 472-4484/4485 .. Call today '

Page 12 CONCORDIEN818, li'ebruar.y 11, 19814 e Ices The U. Coli Info-line is here! Proposals .for ~tudent- S302.(Prof. Geor,ge), 8308 (Prof. B. Boyer), or the Biology club .). bulletin board outside of S103. •L Dial6125 for the latest in what's happening on campus. initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office (SlOO, Science & Engineering Building) on forms avaHable there. General N·ottices ...,. Seniors-Monday, Fe.bruary 15th is the last day to sig.n up to get your name on your year- book. Sign up now! Only $1.00 Wanted-Entertainer to perform February 26 at SWI- nyview Hospital. Any type of entertainment suitable for aU age groups (singing, juggling, etc.). Will pay-Call Lydia at 370-6757 or Gail at 370-6785, for more informati<ln by Tues., 16. LOST DOG-1 1 ·2 years old, 85 lbs., German Shepherd-Joshua. Black and Silver, Chain eollar, Friendly. Call Vicky at 393-3134 at 1655 Carrie Street. MARINE BIOLOG Y··A meeting will be held on Wed., Feb. 17 at 4:30p.m. in Sci-Eng. S301 to provide information about the Marine Biology course (Bio 52), which will take place Aug. 28-sept. 11 at the Shoals Marine Lab, Appledore Island, Maine. Interested students should plan to attend the meeting and are asked to sign one of the lists posted on ()11 Tl}e Gre~k froQt NUTS & BOLTS PARTY On Friday, February 12, at 10:30 Delta Delta Delta will be having their first annual Nuts and Bolts party. Girls get nuts- guys get bolts. Find your match and win a bottle of champagne. The $1.00 donation will go to the Tri-Delta Scholarship F'und. This scholarship will be given next year and All women on campus are eligible to receive it. In addition, the new wave band Judy Junk will be playing starting at 11:30. Hope you all come. Greek V-DParty There will be a V -D party at Alpha Delta Phi this Sat!lfday at 10:00 P.M. Admission $1, featuring the Dance Bandits, beer and punch. Molson Party Delta Chi announces its an- nual Molson Party. 3 Bottles of red or gold ale for $1. Saturday, February 20th after the hockey game. Students who wish to par- ticipate in any of the Union Terms Abroad for the fall term, England, Italy or France must have their applications in the Terms Abroad office by February 18. Anyone who wishes ta participate in the Unian-York exchange should also have applications in by that time. At the annual Terms Abroad meeting held last Thursday, students were in- formed about all the terms to be held during the next academic year. Resident directors as well as former students spoke about the terms in which they were involved. Prospective ap- plicants to any of the eight programs offered by Union who would like to learn more about the progtams should speak to Professor Thomas or Joan Freeman in the Terms Abroad office, HU211. Cabaret for Thurs. February 11 will be cancelled. An orange & white striped cat has been seen wandering out- side 24 Union Ave. No collar. If the cat belongs to anyone, contact Ms. Bache at 346-7640. \Languages in Conract\ a lecture by the Belgian Socio- linguist Peter Hans Nelde. Humanities Faculty Lounge {Humanities Building, 2nd floor), Wednesday, February 17, 8:00 p.m. Presented by the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures. FOR ADOPTION: An adorable albino rat needs a horne quickly. Please spare him from the Billogy Lab! He is docile, well-behaved, and does not bite. He has already been trained too. Call Neil at 370-4061 for more info about Spanky. Anyone interested in having an announcement on the info. lin.e please contact Lorraine Marra in the Student Activities Office. Recommendations relating to the third-year evaluation for Elizabeth Duncan, Cataloging and M.ieroforms Librarian, Schaffer Library, are now being accepted. All interested students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to contact Professor Dam bergs, Library, x6294. FOR SALE-75 PoAUac Grand Le Mans. BLACK. Condition-Good-Excellent. Dr. Charles Bean will be the speaker for a Physics Depart- ment Colloquium in G .E. R&D Center. The topic will be \Magnetic Navigation of Bacteria\. The date is Monday, February 15, 1982 at 4:30 p.m., Room N 303 Science and Engineering Center. Refresh- ments at 4:00. The public is cordially in- vited. THE DEADLINE for with- drawing from a course (with advisor's approval) with a grade of \W\ is FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12. Withdrawal after that date results in a grade of F. (See Catalog, p. 32.) The deadline for proposals to the Internal Education Foun- dation in two categories-- student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\-falls on ·March 5. Notification for awards in both categories will be made by April 1. The deadline applies to proposals for projects to be undertaken during the Spring term. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Last year, in its fourth year of operation, I.E.F. made. awards totalling $83,660, to 47 projects. The approved projects were among 60 requests for a total of $149,386. Some $100,000has been provided by the College to ~. b • • i.E.F. for the 1981-82 academic year. Inquiries about LE.F.. and proposal deadlines should be directed to the Assistant to the Vice President for Academic Affairs. · Prof. Donald S. Holmes,. Institute of Administration and Management, Union College will speak on Strategic Plan- ning Models on Thursday, February 11, 1982...,;3:45 p.m. in Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. On <fbe Otberfroqt Spring Break '82 After a cold winter in Schenectady, how does Florida sound? 7 days and 7 nights in Daytona Beach with students from Union and Skidmore Colleges, March 10-28. The price is $239 for round trip express transportation on a lavoratory equipped, air conditioned deluxe motorcoach, 7 nights at Quality Inn Reef (tax included). Deposit of $50 must be in to Mrs. Marra at Student Affairs. (Includes $25 damage deposit). Deposits must be in by February 14, 1982. Capacity is 48 people; first come, first served basis. For more in- formation call: Steve Brown at 370~635 or Mrs. Marra at 370- 6118. German Club and International Student Alliance Present: The German Club and the International Student Alliance are sponsoring a Costume BaU to celebrate German Carneval. Students with some previous German language experience and those interested in German language and culture are cordially invited. There will be some live German oom-pah-pah music, dance, games and refreshments. Participants are being asked to contribute $2.00 per person. The festivities will take place on Tuesday, Feb. 16 from 8:30p.m.-? in Old Chapel. For further details call the Modern Language Department. Women's Netowrk and BLAS present \To be Young, Gifted, and Black: Lorraine Hansbllfy,\ Women in Film Series, 7:30 p.m., on February 15. Stage li- Carnegie Hall. Free. Ceteris Paribus Presents: Is Anarchy in Government Best? On lues., Feb. 16 The Award Winning Film \The Bread Machine\ in SSO 16 at 3:30 pm Discussion wi II follow ROGER MOORE as JAMES BOND 007'r ~AREEB IIISEBVATIIIH DAY S'l'IIKES AllAIN II FOR YOUR·EYES ONLY Un1ted Arbsts Presented by Union College Film Committee Feb.12,13and 14at7:30&10:00p.m. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2.5th Sign up: Feb.l6- 18 between s: 30- 5 atTHE CAREER CENTER For information call : x 6176· MUSEUM INTERNSHIPS The Education Department of the South Street Seaport Museum is offering funded college in- ternships for the summer of 1982. Duties include conducting guided tours of the Musewn ships and landmark district, Museum teaching, and assistance with the operation of education programs offered by the Museum. Interns participate in an intensive training program featuring New York maritime and architectural history. Information is available in The Career Center. SENIORS Mrs. Rodman would appreciate knowing of any job offers y~u have received. Stop by any time.

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, February 11, 198! l 8302. (Prof. George), 8308 (Prof. B. B0yer), or the Biology club bulletin board outside of S103. Gen,eral N,oftices Students who wish to par· • .... · ticipate in any of the Union Terms Abroad for the fall term, England, Italy or France must have their applications in the Terms Abroad office by February 18. Anyone who wishes to participate rn the Union-York exchange should also have applications in by that Seniors-Monday, February 15th is t:he last day to sign up tCJ get your name on your year· book. Sign up now! Only $1.00 Wanted-Entertainer to perforrn February 26 at Sun- nyview Hospital. Any type of entertainment suitable for an age groups r singrng, juggling, etc. l. Will pay-Call Lydia at 370-6757 or Gail at 370-6785, for more information by Tues., 16. LOST DOG-l 1 2 years old, 85 lbs., Gennan Shepherd-Joshua. Black and Silver, Chain collar, Friendly. Call Vicky at 393-3134 at 1655 Carrie Street. l\1AR INE BlOLOG Y--A meeting wBl be held on Wed., Feb. 17 at 4:30 p.m. in Sci-Eng. S301 to provide informatioR about the Marine Biology course ( Bio 52), which will take place Aug. 28-8ept. 11 at the Shoals Narine Lab, Appledore Island, Maine. Interested students should plan to attend the meeting and are asked to sign one of the lists posted on 011 Cfl1e Gr~ek froqt NlJTS &BOLTS PARTY On Friday, February 12, at 10 : 30 Delta Delta Delta will be having their first annual Nuts and Bolts party. Girls get nuts- guys get bolts. Find your match and win a bottle of champagne. The $1.1)() donation will go to the Tri-Delta Scholarship Fund. This scholarship will be given next year and All women on campus are eligible to receive it. In addition, the new wave band Judy Junk will be playing starting at 11 :30. Hope you all come. Greek V·DParty time. At the annual Terms Abroad meeting held last Thursday, students were in· formed about aH the terms to be held during the next academic vear. Resident directors as we)i] as former students spoke about the terms in which they were involved. Prospective ap- plicants to any of the eight programs offered by Ur;~ion who would like t0 learn more ab0ut the programs should speak to Professor Thomas or Joan Freeman in the Terms Abroad office, HU211. Cabaret for Thurs. February 11 will be cancelled. An orange & white striped cat has been seen wandering aut- side 24 Union Ave. No collar. If the cat belongs to anyone, contact Ms. Bache at 346-7640. \Languages in Conract\ a lecture by the Belgian Socio· linguist Peter Hans Nelde. Humanities Faculty Lounge (Humanities Building, 2nd floor), Wednesday, February 17, 8:00 p.m. Presented by the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures. FOR ADOPTION: An adorable albino rat needs a home quickly. Please spare him from the Billogy Lab! He is docile, well-behaved, and does not bite. He has already been trained too. Call Neil at 370-4001 for more info about Spanky. 4lt . . Ices The U. Coli Info-line is here! Dial 6125 for the latest in what's happening on campus. Anyone i.Ftterested in having an announcement 1111 the info. line please contact Lorraine Marra in the Student Activities Office. Reconunendations relating to the third-year evaluatitm for Elizabeth Duncan, Cataloging and Microforms Librarian. Schaf£er Library, are now being accepted. All interested students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to contact Professor Dambergs, Library, x6294. FOR SALE-75 Pontiac Grand Le Mans. BLACK. Condition-Goed-Excellent. Dr. Charles Bean will be the speaker for a Physics Depart· ment CoHoquium in G.E. R&D Center. The topic will be \Magnetic Navigation of Bacteria\. The date is Monday, February 15, 1982 at 4:30 p.m., Room N 303 Science and Engineering Center. Refresh- ments at 4:00. The public is cordially in- vited. THE DEADLINE for with- drawing from a course (with advisor's approval) with a grade of \W\ is FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12. Withdrawal after that date results in a grade of F. (See Catalog, p. 32.) The deadline for pr-oposals to the Internal Education Foun- dation in two categories-- student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects,. -falls on ·March 5. Notification for awards in both categories will be made by April 1. The deadline applies to proposals for projects to be undertaken during the Spring term. Proposals for student- initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office (SlOO, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Last year, in its f0urth year of operation, I.E.F. made awards totailing $83,660, to 47 projects. The approved projects were among 60 requests for a total of $149,386. Some $100,000 has been provided by the College to )..., . ~ . L ' \ . .. _·;1 1... •. + ' ' ~\ ..;0 ... _, 1\'\;.\l,·' I.E.F. for the 1981-82 academic year. Inquiries about I.E.F. and proposal deadlines should be directed to the Assistant to the Vice President for Academic Affairs. Prof. Donald S. Holmes, Institute of Administration and Management, Union CoUege will speak on Strategic Plan- ning Models on Thursday, February 11, 1982-3:45 p.m. in Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. On Tbe Otberfroflt Spring Break '82 After a cold winter in Schenectady, how does Florida sound? 7 days and 7 nights in Daytona Beach with studeRts from Union and Skidmore Colleges, March 10-28. The price is $239 for round trip express transportation OH a lavoratory equipped, air conditioned deluxe motorcoach, 7 nights at Quality Inn Reef (tax included). Deposit of $50 must be in to Mrs. Marra at Student Affairs. (Includes $25 damage deposit). Deposits must be in by February 14, 1982. Capacity is 48 people; first come, first served basis. For more in- formation call: Steve Brown at 370-6635 or Mrs. Marra at 370- 6118. German Club and International Student Alliance Present: The German Club and the International Student Alliance are sponsoring a Costwne Ball to celebrate German Carneval. Students with some previous German language experience and those interested in German language and culture are cordially invited. There will be some live German oom-pah-pah music, dance, games and refreshments. Participants are being asked to contribute $2.00 per person. The festivities wHl take place on Tuesday, Feb. 16 from 8:30p.m.-? in Old Chapel. For further details call the Modern Language Department. Women's Netowrk and BLAS present \To be Young, Gifted, and Black: Lorraine Hansbury,\ Women in Film Series, 7:30 p.m., on February 15. Stage 11- Carnegie Hall. Free. Ceteris Paribus Presents: Is Anarchy in Government Best? On Tues., Feb. 1 6 The Award Winning Film \The Bread Machine\ in SSO 16 at 3:30 pm Discussion will follow There will be a V-D party at Alpha Delta Phi this Saturday at 10:00 P.M. Admission $1, featuring the Dance Bandits, beer and punch. Molson Party ROGER MOORE as JAMES BOND 007'r:' ~AKEEK DISEB\IATIDN DAY STRIKES Delta Chi announces its an- nual Mf>lson Party. 3 Bottles of red or gold ale for $1. Saturday, February 20th after the hockey game. FOR YOUR EYES ONLY Un1tedAmsts Presented by Union College Film Committee Feb. 12,13 and 14at7:30 & lO:OOp.m. AGAIN II THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25th Sign up: Feb.l6 - 18 between s: 30- 5 atTHE CAREER CENTER For information call : x 6176 MUSEUM INTERNSHIPS The Education Department of the South Street Seaport Museum is offering funded college in- ternships for the summer of 1982. Duties include conducting guided tours of the Museum ships and landmark district, Musewn teaching, and assistance withthe operation of education programs offered by the Museum. Interns participate in an intensive training program featuring New York maritime andarcbitectural history. Information is available in The Career Center. SENIORS Mrs. Rodman would appreciate knowing of any job offers you have received. Stop by any time. .j 1 J

and be to the and ollege Plan- in Union Ball I. evious are be and are $2.00 will 16 11 the and bury,\ 7:30 f ? . in- OONCORDIENSIS, FefJmary 11, 198S ----~--~------~~--------------~--------------~--- Page 13 •·\ •.. ' f Fawn-to aw very ·special friend, happy Valentinets Day- Robby~ Happy Valentines David & Linda ·· Day. 1 almost miss you-cruise up agam soon. Love, Roberta Kip, I love you dearly. Roses art;! red, violl:tts'are blue~ if you wontt be My valentine, I will· be too. Blue that is. Love, Muff Susan, You Win always be my FAVORITE ronmmaate,. but will you alsQ . :please be my favorite valentine? You mean the world to<· · Love you lots Rosebud. P. \ 1- }'our job~ Doubt thou tbe ·stars are fire, Doubt that tbe sun doth move, Doubt truth to be a liar, But never doubt I l<tve. (steven richard) -.~ ' Zooro, - .. ''Bappy~v.n.t• McGee ... ! Sue, H.V;D.!U ,wm you be mine? I love y-Ol,t+Paut , season is as good . . • Jhn B: There is a simple beauty in honesty--and you know I appreciate simple things. An en<iuring friendship can be based only on honesty. No hard feelings, ju:st a certain respect-MUTUAL'???? BETH: Happy Valentine's Day!!! Be happy (and smile, someone cares ... ) Lots of love from the ex-roomie of yout\ ex- roomie!! affection and devotion. A.J. Here it is finally: .I love you very much. H.A.-Roger B. Steven: It was a lovely thought but Hamlet was crazy. Love always Ophelia. Dear Steven: You have my tender love, my kind heart and my thoughtful words. They are all for you and because of you. The tGugh times make the good times that much better. Love, Rachel C.S.: Let's always hold hands •.• Thanks for sharing so much of youtself with me, our relationship is a gift I'll treasure forever. , Happy Valentine~s Day! Love, SNOOKS JA YME-Better start reading 11 COnC()rcy\ before using it as stair decor~tion (never know when snmething pertinent might be printed} ••. Meet for breakfast Sun? (ANYTHING but tacos!) R.S.V.P. Cbamp-I love you!-LB Ruth and Margo-We're still one helluva bunch! Happy Valentine's Day. Love, L+A Karen-We love you any and every way you are!.;...Your roomies Bit-Happy 6th and many more! Love always, Sihaya Dear P11g, Thanks SQOOOQOO much for everything. The past three months have been great! Please be my valentine, and tell Trev and Meg to get packed for Florida. I love you, EWP Usa, Ricki and Judybeth: Happy Valentine•s Day. Thanks for all y>Our help and en~ couragement. Love you all. E. C. Honeybear, \The sweetest thing, rve ever known, is loving YOU ... P' Happy Valentines Day ..• ! Y{}ur Honey I!!! l Dear Mom: Happy Valen* tine's Day. Love, Your Son. Dear Dad, Happy Valentine's Day. Lov~ Your Daughter. Union College Film Committee Presents: \f'l • utOTlOUS.Jt is untikety that any other American film this year will exceed 'The French Lieutenant's Woman.\' -Gene Shalit, NBC-TV (TadayJ Umted Artests Tuesday at 7, 9, & 11 & Wednesday at 10:30 p.m.

and be to the demic lmes, and Plan- in Union liance Ball are be and are $2.00 wHl eb. 16 the and 7:30 in- 1 ' \ ' OONOORDIENSIS, February 11, 1982 ----~~---------------------------------------- Pag~ 13 V aleQtirpe's Bay Dear TrH)elta: Your house was Cb()Sett for the \Swift and Silent Interior Decorating Service't special St. Valentine's trial. We hope you like our style and we hope to do business with yau again. Mr. Chi. 0. What a little bunny you are. To the future Wedding and all the plans we've made. Have a beautiful Valentines Day. Hopefully we wonJt get QUt of bed!! Foxy (Dave )-·I hope this week has gone well. Good luck tomotTow. Remember, the 7th week is for us.-Mrs. Penguin· BARTBART! visitvisitvis- itvisitvisitvisitvisitvisit . . . d() you believe me yet??? Happy VD and tell Myron I'm dying to· meet him (if he's anything like you bets gotta be great!), Love, gracie Mike F.-To the nicest person in all the world-almost. Have a great Valentines Day!!! To an Rodents far and wide- Happy Valentine's Day! Love, two of your English representatives. Blueski-Once a cutie, always a cutie. Happy V -Day. Love always, Moose's friends. Ron-Flavorland, June, •as- be there, aloha! Is it a date? Love, the residents of 321 ... or is it 231 . . . or . . . Rachel-thank you for' sharing a beautiful 3:4. may we have 99.0 more! 14~3 awfully embarrassing when I have to drop to my knees to kiss you--you midget! P.s.~: Beefsteak Charlie's on the 14th- or what?!?! ... you pour the sangria and Pll take care of the whip cream situation . . . Forever, your BESTEST BUDDY. PSK-You'veeomea long way in 94 years and we're prQud of you!-LS And the Little Prince said, \Blood is thicker than water, but friendshiJ) runs deep in the veins of roomies! •• D4or:nr.ny said I could choose my friends; but not my relatives~ Only she wa~n't a Phi Sig Little Sister. I chose a great group of brothers! ! · AF(Ph)-Youtre more than just a nice guy, more than just a great friend, you're terrific! Luv ya now more than ever. Fawn-to a- very special friend, happy Valentine's Day- Bobby, Happy Valentines David & Linda Day. I almost miss you-Cruise up again soon. Love, Roberta Kip. I love you dearly. Roses are red, violets are blue, if you won't be My valentine, I will be too. Blue that is. Love, Muff Susan, You will always be my FAVORITE roomrnaate, but will you also please be my .favorite valentine? You mean the world to me. Love you lots Rosebud. P .S. Call your jl}b. \ To .. My Little Ski Bum: Saturday wi11 be ()tte year. I'm falling in l0ve ~i1ih yGu aU over aga,in, Ha.ppy Anniver:sat·y. Love Always, Zambulim ·· . Doubt thou the stars are fire, Doubt that the sun doth move, Doubt truth to be a liar, But never doubt I l<tve. (steven richard) RUSSELL PAM-Cheer up! VROOM! !-June- Sue Golden ... -Herets the personal YOU 1 Ve been waiting for! Remember! LOVE IS THE Tl:UNGll t!! Your adoring fans, M&J, Happy Valentine_s pay, Cyn. With Love, Mike ~ts (1£ tne jub Would be nice to ·... . ... . . .~P:) neil: Yt1~ when yoU . 'WhO Imows 1 I may be a .senior by then! M. Sizzleans-Mini Mart gave me specific orders to keep you away. You want those W.S.'s to be interested, right? What! 1 ~ What! ? What!? Lynnii·-take that pseudo laetolil fossil and . . . Love, 10..0 Happy Valentine's Day to the women of Wendall Ave. What time's dinner again? It sure W.M great! Love, M. & C. P.S. How's tricks? RANGE-soda man; Here's the personal you've been waiting for! Good things <:ome to those wlto wait l ! Happy V-D! I love you! \Ditto\ Stu-Happy Valentines Day. Lave,. Liz R.A.Z., \The good things in life are those which can't fit in a crate .. \ love and uncratables ... K.E.R.! Weezie, At least Y<~U're not thirty yet . . . Remember . . . double chocolate brownies can ythi to HV'tl solve an ng. •. ve ... n Zooro, \Happy V .D. u McGee .•. ! Sue, H.V.D.1!! Will you be mine? I love you-Paul. Honey BUNCH-Have a happy V-D in :Singluu:n,to~;~. I am NOT a ' fag-at least iheytve got v- necks:• &nookums My only tot, Welcome . t.(l U·Col .... the ••bastion of n~nroses''-Thattk you for etrtning. _Happy Valentin.e 1 s Da;yt. Love~ Jifin. P.S. I have the .-~F'' if you have the ' 1 0' 1 ., , 'b($,~n long, and hard~ but I know you wouldn't have it any other way (me either) !l Happy Valentine's Day kidde!! . ...•... \ ..... -·. I. 1 season is as good . . . Jim B: The:we is a simple beauty in honesty--and you know I appreciate simple things. An enduring friendship can be based. only on honesty. No hard feelings, just a certain respect-MUTUAL???? BETH: Happy Valentine's Day! ! ! Be happy (and smile, someone cares ... ) Lots oflove from the ex-ro()mie of your ex· roomie!! The BIG APPLE; is it the forbidden fruit? Tempting and surely delicious. ,fhe price is high. Is it worth it? All could be lost, but • . . Father time and Mother nature will answer. Or is this another delusion? (or dilution? ) \GH-Happy Valentine's Day- ·Love, The Other \G\ Cahmp, Will you be my Valentine again this year? Love, Chief Kimosahe, Love is never having to say you're sorry- instead, ft's deciding whether to use the green goop, the red goop the yellow go()p, or no goop at all!! L.G-Wise rnan say: \Good friends make great Valentine PartnersH. Guess who Wise man is? Hint-Ich bin achtzehn Jahre alt. {Is this the right answer to your aunt's question?) · L.G. and S.W.--Have an ex- cellent time at Harvard. You'll both be missed . . . Michael Dear E, Thank yo11. Happy Valentines Day. Love, Y.F.B.F. Happy Valentine's Day to the prettiest green eyes I know. May they be seen more of in the future. Don't let the popcorn get cold.- Your c. Dear Michelle, Happy Valentine's Day on ()Ur first Anniversary and may we have many morel Love Always Richard Dearest Mnffy, Despite our separation after the Cape, we have kept the flame alive. To .the future my love. lvlay we be together always~ With much affection and devotion. A.J. Here it is finally: I love you very much. H.A.-R()ger B. Steven: It was a lovely thought but Hamlet was crazy. Love always Ophelia. Dear Steven: You have my tender love, my kind heart and my thoughtful words. They are all for you and because of you. The tough times make the good times that much better. Love, Rachel C.S.: Let's always hold hands ... Thanks for sharing so much of yourself with me, our relationship is a gift I'll treasure forever. Happy Valentine's Day! Love, SNOOKS JAYME-Better start reading ''Concordy\ before using it as stair decoration (never )m()w when something pertinent might be printed) ... Meet for breakfast Sun? (ANYTHING but tacos!) R.S.V.P. Champ-! love you!-LB Ruth and Margo-We're still · one helluva bunch! Happy Valentine's Day. Love, L+A Karen-We love you any and every way you are!-~Your roomies Bit-Happy 6th and many more! Love always, Sihaya Dear Pug, Thanks sooooeoo much for everything. The past three months have been great! Please be my valentine, and tell Trev and Meg to get packed for Florida. I love you, EWP Lisa, Ricki and Judybeth: Happy Valentine's Day. Thanks for all your help and en· couragement. Love you all. E.C. Honeybear, \The sweetest thing, I've ever known. is loving YOU . . . ! ., Happy Valentines · Day ... l Your Honey!!!!! Dear Morn: Happy Valen- tine's Day. Love, Your Son. Dear Dad, Happy Valentine's Day. Love, Your Daughter. Union College Film Committee Presents: ufll • UtOTlOUS.Jt is unlikely that any other American film this year will exceed 'The French Lieutenant's Woman.\' -Gene Shalit. NBC·'f'Y rrodayJ 'R l • \'' A\•\' ·~ lit 0,0. Kl •· •V'I>Pfu < ..... ~~J ~ ~. lire_, .. •'> I'll ~~n~f t Umted Artasts Donny & Todd: When you . guys ·(t~lly g~t. it tngetner, it$. enough Jo :W.l(e ynur breath . Tuesday at 7, 9, & 11 away. Hope the rest ()f the·· & Wednesday at 10:30 p.m. L---------------------~----------~

Page 14 OONCORDIENSIS, February 11, 1982 Women's Hoop Drops Three I Curlers Compete . .. By KATHY BENTLEY Sports Staff Despite good teamwork and a lot of effort, the women's hoop team had a disappointing week, with three narrow losses. In a close game last Wed- nesday, RPI edged out Union 52- 48. The Union team did not play their best, yet Julie Miller picked up 14 points and Brenda Hugick got 10 rebotmds. Union is looking forward to destroying RPI in the upcoming Capital District Tournament. Union played an excellent game against Div. II LeMoyne Friday, losing 77-70. It was an exciting match with closr scores throughout. Cay Lynct - TRACK MANAGER NEEDED Male or female No experience necessary (But good if you've got some) Coach £bbets at x6284 SPRING SPORTS PHYSICALS Feb. 12th Contact respective coaches for designated time and place got26 points and Julie Miller 20, to lead the team in scoring. Julie also had an awesome 21 rebounds and Brenda Hugick followed up with 13. The Union players should be congratulated on their good teamwork and aggressive game. Monday night was another narrow loss at 53'57 against Williams. Union was out- matched in height, as WiUiams had two players over 6' and six players at 5'9\ or above. Despite the height, Julie Miller got in for 11 rebowtds and Brenda Hugick grabbed six. Julie Miller awaits rebound. Sports Notes Senior Tri-Captains Union College's soccer team elected tri-captains for the 1982 season. Seniors Andy Dreher, Mike Lewis and Frank Skorina were. elected at the team's winter meeting. Dreher, who was the team's \Outstanding Freshman\ in 1979 and the \Most Valuable Player\ in 1980,finished the 1981 season with seven points on four goals and three assists. A managerial economics major and a brother of Sigma Chi, Andy is the son of the Rev. and Mrs. George Dreher of Mystic, Ct. Lewis, a political science major, and the team's \Most Improved Player\ following the 1980 season, is the son of Eugene and Fay Lewis of Delmar, N.Y. Skorina, an engineering major, is the son of Ale11:ander and Jane Skorina of Allen Park, MI. Clinton Sets Assist Record Junior guard Joe Clinton established a new all-time Union College basketball record in assists last Sunday as the Dutchmen defeated homestanding Norwich, 73-59. Clinton, who handed out five assists during the contest, now has a career total of 328, sur- passing the old. mark of 3~6 established by Bill Carmody m 1975. Clinton, who handed out 102 assists and scored 256 points as a freshman and had 133 assists and 318 points last season, has recorded 93 assists and scored 271 points through 19 games this year. He is currently Union's leading scorer with a 14.2 average. A graduate of Albertus Magnus High School where he played for coach Tom Collins, Clinton is in his third season as a varsity Starter for Union and is tri-captain of this year's team. The Bill Scanlon-coached Dutchmen currently show a record of 9-10 with five games remaining on the 1981-82 schedule. Joe, an English major, is the · son of Mr. and Mrs. Edward Clinton of 54 Graney Ct. in Pearl River, NY .. Hockey Notes Tod Fobare's goal against Holy Cross puts him in sole possession of second place on Union's all time scoring list ... The Holy Cross game proved costly to Union as Mickey Perras was lost for the season with torn knee ligaments . . . Mark Bon didn't play against Williams because he's come down with viral pnewnonia ... Sean Wills also did not play against Williams because his previously . injured knee is acting up . . . Bill Kirby and Charlie Hauser played against Williams . . . Brad Nicholson has been playing good hockey on a line with Brian Shea and Joe Caruso ... Tuesday's game vs. Williams was an 8-3 defeat for the Dutchmen . . . The Dutchmen travel to Division II power Merrimac tonight. Julie played very well, also putting in 18 points and getting four steals. Brenda also had four steals. Union's man-to-man defense was impressive, causing 27 turnovers by Williams. They came expecting an ,easy win, yet Union sur- prised Williams with an ex· cellent basketball game. Women'S hoop has several home games coming soon-New Paltz tomorrow, Hamilton on Monday, and Oneonta, Wed- nesday. AU games are at 7 p.m. Your attendance would be appreciated. ByUCCC Last weekend Union College curlers competed among a field df 120 curlers comprising 30 tap international rinks (teams). The competition took place at the Broomstones Club in Westen and \The Country Club\ of Brookline, Massachusetts. The rink, consisting of lead Darryl Seavey, second\ William Unterborn, vi·ce-skip Ben Heckscher, and skip Marc Luxenberg, competed against rinks from such diverse places as Montreal, Toronto, Norfolk and Boston. The inexperienced Union rink encountered many competitors that had been playing the game since their youth and had grown up on a steady diet of the sport. Despite their inexperience, the Union curlers managed to win half of the ten ends (innings) in each of their draws (games). Union came on strong during their first draw Thursday night against a team from Toronto, ''Humber Highlands.\ Union lost momentum in the sixth end after a ten minute break due to what appeared to be a tie. After attempting measurement with a potpourri of delicate measuring tools, Union finally lost the point, literally, by the thickness of a twenty dollar bill. The Spiritand aggressiveness of the young Union rink was quite impressive. Many long time curlers commented on the rapid development of the Union team. Indeed the future looks bright for these Union curlers and with more experience they will capture many pins and medals. Improve your memory. Order this memo board now-b~fore you forget! SEAGR/.11 OISTILLERS COc,N.I.C. !UERICAII WliiSKEY-A DlEIID. !D PRDtir sewn up ,ell~ 7UP ete!r.adtmark!o,ltJcSevft\UQCOIIIPIInvO 1!182 I 0 .... 0 .c Q. 1- ~

each of night t\ o, Union xthend to After with finally by the bill. iveness was long on the Union looks curlers they and 0 .... 0 .c 0. l- et: OONOORDIENSIS, February 11, 19814 Page 15 ~Athlete of the Week by Mike Sbarp Sports Staff Congratulationsto sophomore Lynwood Wade for winning the Athlete of the Week honors. Lynwood earned this distinction with outstanding performances for the Union College Indoor Track Team in both the shotput and 35 pound weight. Ina tri-meet against Williams and Hamilton on J aimary 16th, Lynwood placed first in the shotput with a toss of 47'3\ and he placed second in the 35 .pound weight with a 39'9\ effort . VerSU$' Colgate and Plattsburgh on the 22nd, he once again Clinched the shotput, with a throw of 46'7¥4\ and he ,plaeed second in. the 35 pound weight with .a 40'3%\ toss. In his last performance before presstime, in an open meet on February 6, he placed third in the shotput Athlete of the Week Lynwood Wade with a 44'4114\ effort. As tribute to Lynwood's athletic talent, this is the first year he has thrown the hammer and he qualified for the state meet. Last year he was ranked seventh in the state in the shotput and he was the Capitol District Champion. This year, Lynwood hopes once again to clinch the championship. Lynwood is known as a fierce competitor and a team man. He believes that the Dutchmen . Indoor and Outdoor Track Teams contain a lot of talent, but they lack the necessary depth. In his hometown of Hackensack, NJ, Lynwood was a field events man for the Indoor and Outdoor Track Teams and he also played football. He was All-County in track, and he placed third in the prestigious Penn Relays in the shotput. At Union, he has played two years of football, and spent <me year on the Outdoor Track Team and two years on the Indoor Track Team as a field events man. Lynwood is 5'9%\ and weighs 21& pounds. His major is Civil Engineering. The best of luck to him and the rest of the Indoor Track Team for the remainder of the season. Sports Ha:ppenings ~ . Feb. 11-18 Varsity Hockey at Merrimack vs. Westfield at Potsdam vs. North Adams J. V. Hockey vs. Vt. Acad. vs. Berkshire Varsity B- Ball vs. Clarkson Women's B-Ball vs. New Pa·ltz vs. Ham i·lton vs. Oneonta J.V. B-Ball at Skidmore vs. St. Rose Indoor Track vs. Albany, RPit Siena Feb. 11 Feb. 13 Feb. 16 Feb. 18 Feb. 13 Feb. 18 Feb. 16 Feb. 12 Feb. 15 Feb. 17 Feb. 12 Feb. 16 Feb. 13 Needed: 7:30 8:00 7:30 8:00 5:00 3:30 8:00 7:00 7:00 7:00 7:00 6:00 1:00 SPORTS PHOTO EDITOR Contact Rob or Drew at 382-9029 ' Dea·dline for O·RI.ENT AT ION ,Clinton Breaks ·Record \ \' APPLICATIONS has been extended to FRIDAY, FEB. 12th Ill WRUC 90.9 fm *stereo TRIVIA TRIVIA will be broadcast starting. this Sunday 2-14, and the next iwo Sundays from 9-12 p.m. 1. To receive credit for answering a trivia question you must simply be the first caller with the correct answer. To reach WRUC, you may either dial 370-615~ or 37()-6154 (disregard the 370 if on centrex). 2. If you are tile first correct caller you will be asked to state the team which you want to represeent. That team will then get one point. When identifying your team, be sure to be precise\-1st floor Davidson and Davidson House will be considered two different teams. At no time will scores of different teams be combined. 3. A total of 300 single point questions will be asked {100 per night). -In the case certain questions are later disqualified, alter- native questions will be asked. 4. At the end <>f the first and second nights, a five-point question will be asked. This question can only be answered at the begillning of next week's questioning session. You will be told when to call at that time. 5. The teams with the most points in tf:leir respective division at the end of the three nights will each be awarded prizes. Last year a total of 10 kegs. C>f beer were given away to. the winning dorm, fraternity, and independent team. Keep I istening to.WR UC 90.9 FM stereo for: the precise prizes. 6. The decision of ttle judges is finaL ·.Please hold all questions until the end of the program: TOWiNA DINNER FOR TWOATLITTLE SAM'S TAVERN ON34 FRONT STREET, SIMPLY ANSWER THIS QUESTION AND LEAVS IT IN THE TRIVIA BOX IN THE MAIL ROOM. TWO . WINNERS FROM ALL THE CORRECT ANSWERS WILL BE DRAWN LIVE DURING THIS SUNDAY'S TRIVIA PROGRAM. THE QUESTION: WHAT ARE THI: FIRST NAMES OF THE FESTRUNK BROTHERS ON SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE? Continued from page 16 , Joe Clinton and Jim Hogan each scored four points and com- bined with a Montanile jumper to bring them within one at 65- 64. But, at this late stage of the game, Union was forced to foul in hope of getting the hall back. John· Montanile, John Jarosak and Ken D'Orazio were all sent to the bench with five fouls. Middlebury's senior captain, Jim Virture, was the man who the fouls were putting on the line and he responded by hitting fi.ve of six free throws to ice the game. The game ended at 72-99 in favor of Middleb1Jry. D'Orazio and Wood were Shut down in the second half, com~ bining for only two points. This, coupled with Union's defensive lapses, were the keys for Middlebury's victory. In a rare Sunday afternoon 1 game, the Dutchmen traveled to Vermont to face Division III foe Norwich. Union was ainling to end a string of losses on the road, where their record Was a poor 2-8. Union scored the .first basket ·of the game and maintained a small lead until 4:.34 remained in the half. At this point, Norwich's Jim Ford hit two foul shots to give Nor- wich a 23-22 lead. However, Union countered by scoring eigl:tt of the next 10 points to tak:e a 30-25lead at the half. Joe Wood led the Dutchmen with 12 points for the half. Union maintained a 3-5 point lead for the first 10 minutes of the second half. Joe Clinton's three-point play at 6:01 stret- ched the Dutchmen's lead to 10 points. Soon afterward, Clinton fed Montanile for a bucket to make the score 62-48. That feed was Clinton's fourth of the game and the 327th of his career-a new Union record. Union went on to a well deserved win, beating their opponents, 73-59. The Dutchmen played a strong game outshooting their op- ponents from the floor and foul line. They also outrebounded and outhustled their opponents. Once again four of Union's starters were in double figures with Joe Wood collecting 19 points, John Jarosak 14, and 11 each for John Montanile and Record setter Joe Clinton SUPPORT Joe Clinton. The Dutchmen have five games remaining in the season. They are still seeking a post- season tourney berth and hope to be victorious at home on Wednesday night, Feb. 10, against Hartwick and Tuesday night, Feb. 16, versus Clarkson. UNION SPORTS

Page :16 CONOORDIENS1S, Februa:ry 11, 198$ . ' ' : :. . ·.· ~ . ' . . . ' . ' ·. . . '- ' . ' ~ . . : ' ' '. ~ Hockey Controls· Own Destiny By D.S. Hurley Sports Editor and TMF (Colgate) a commendable performance by the Dut·chmen, wh:ich displayed some of the team's true character. This past Saturday, Union faced a team very similar to their own. The . Holy Cross Crusaders carn.e into Achilles Rink with a 10-9 record and looked to secure their playoff spot with· a victory over the Dutchmen. For Union, thi:s game was also very crucial to their playoff hopes. was loaded with action at both ends of the ice. Each team had nwnerous chances to score. Unfortunately, Holy Cross scored to tie the game.and .put it into· overtime with only 19 seconds remaining on the clock. Their goal came on a .powerplay as Union's Sean Wills was called for holding. The Holy Cross goal was tlie only shot they had on the powerplay as Union had been killing the penalty effectively. The overtime was filled with exciting end to end action with both teams having excellent scoring opportunities. The overtime period. ended, however, without any scoring much to the crowd's dismay. Even though Union came-away with only a tie, the game'was. surely the most exciting one played at Achilles this year. (See p. 14 for Hockey Notes.) ' \'' .-,. :fi' Fresbman standout defenseman T.J. Ryan: .. On Wednesday, February 3, Union was in the unenviable position of facing one .of the country's hottest hockey teams, Colgate, on their home ice in Hamilton, N.Y. Hockey polls had Colgate ranked 7th in the country going into the Union game. However, Union was playing their best hockey of the season, riding a three game winning streak when they met the Red Raiders. Thus a game that was expected to be a blowout turned into a close 6-4. 1 win for Colgate. As predicted, Colgate came out flying and tallied two early first period goals. At this point it looked like it would be a long night for the Dutchmen, until Tod Fobare and Don Beall caught the Red Raiders by surprise as they each scored just 16 seconds apart to tie the score at 2-2 and close out the first period scoring. Holy Cross jumped all over Union in the early going as speedy Kevin Knightly put the Crusaders on the board with two goals, his second coming while Union was on the ,powerplay. T .J. Ryan cut Union's deficit in half when he blasted home a shot from the point during a 5 on 3 powerplay advantage for Union. Union started the second period shorthanded. 1:44 into the .per· iod, Mike Coan of Holy Cross scored on a shot .from the point. However, only 14 seconds later Brian Shea cut the margin to 3-2 as he poked in a loose puck. Union gained the momentum at this P.,oint in the game. They were putting heavy pressure on Holy Cross goalie Bob McGlory but he came up with many unbelievable saves. Tod Fobare finally tied the,game at 3-3 after a flurry of Union shots. Roundball'-ers Inconsistent In the second period Colgate once again came out strong, scoring two goals before Union was able to get on the board. However, Union rallied scoring two goals to tie the game. Union's goals came from Steve MacGuiHvary and Brad Nicholson. Colgate once again scored to go into the locker room up by a goal. Between periods, with the score 5-4, the Dutchmen realized that an1 upset was within reach, and when the period began the Dutchmen were flying. Union had several 1 chances to tie the game up at five all, but either Colgate goalie Guy Temonele made the big save, or a Dutchman shooter fired just wide of the net. Union was putting some heavy pressure on the Red Raider goal when Colgate senior Dan Fridgen stole the puck at his own blue line, skated the length of the ice, and fired a slapshot by Bart Brooks. The goal by Fridgen, his 100th career goal, sealed the game for Colgate. Despite the loss, it was Going into the third period, conditioning became a key factor for both teams. Union only played three lines and .four defensemen the whole game. Union went ahead of Holy Cross .four minutes into the period when Joe Caruso snapped in a quick shot from the left faceoff circle. Holy Cross's goalie did not move on the play. Brad Nicholson received the assist. The remainder of the period SUPPORT By RICK SAPIR Sports Staff The Union Basketball 'F~am continued its up and down play last week defeating powerhouse. Hamilton on Wednesday night, losing to a weaker Middlebury team on Friday, and then beating Norwich on Sunday. During the Norwich game, junior· tri-captain Joe Clinton surpassed Bill Carmody's record of 326 hand-outs to become Union College's all time leading assist man. The Continentals of Hamilton ·entered Memorial Fieldhouse riding a six game winning streak, while the Dutchmen were looking to end a two game slide. Union came out on fire, hitting their first seven shots on U.NI:ON SPORTS Tracksters Promising ByD.D. Sports Staff On January 30th the Union College Varsity Track· Team travelled north to Plattsburgh for the first annual Cardinal Classic Invitational Track Meet. Gary Wenner led the way for the Dutchmen by capturing first place in the pole vault (12') and second in the triple jump (38'). Freshman Jeff Mikel notched his first win of the season by taking first 1n the 500 meter run (1: 10.5). Sophomore Mark Dunn also recorded a first place victory with a throw of 44'6\ in the shotput. Dunn, whose throw was a personal best, easily outdistanced the rest of the field. Other Union scorers were: Dave Botta who placed second in both the 800 and 1,500 meter runs, John Stimmel who took third in both the 50 meter dash and the 300 meter dash, and Ken Holma who placed third in the 50 meter high hurdles. On February 6th, Union competed with Springfield College in an open meet. Gary Wenner again was the top finisher for the Dutchmen. Gary recorded a personal best of 13 '10\ in the pole vault on his way to a first place finish. Co- Captains Brad Kline and Dave Dellehunt both picked up second place honors in their respective events. Kline was second in the 35 pound weight (41') while Dellehunt crossed the line second in the 1,000 meter run (2 :38). Third place finishers for the Dutchmen include: Mark Dunn in the 35 pound weight (37'), Lynwood Wade in the shot put ( 48'), Gary Wenner in the triple jump (38'2%\) Ken Holman in the 50 high hlll'dles {7 .54), and Denny Contois in the 500 meter run (1:09.63). Lynwood Wade also picked up a fourth place finish in the 35 pound weight (36'), while Jeff Mikel recorded a fourth in the 500 meter run (1 :10.2). Fifth places notched by the Union team include: Bill Rusch in the 3a pound weight (35'), Mark Dunn in the shotput (44'), Tom Cutter in the 400 meter run (55.46), and Bob Stelmack in the 800 meter run (2:10). Also, Union's one mile relay (Holman, Contois, Mikel and Stelmack) ran to a second place finish. Former Union standout and Division III All-American Kevin Scheuer easily won both the 1,500 meter and 1,000 meter rtlns. The Union women tracksters also competed in the February 6th meet. Inge Stockman captured first in the 800 meter run (2:35) and second. in the 1,500 meter run (5:17), besides running on the third place mile relay team. Freslunan Janice Glidden captured a: first in the high jump (4'4\) a second in the 800 meter run (2:35.33), a third in the long jump and anchored the third place mile relay team. Both the men and women will battle archrivals Albany State, Siena and RPI at the fieldhouse this Saturday. Spectators are welcome. Spring Track is starting soon. Interested athletes should contact Head Coach Russ Ebbets in Alumni Gym. their way to a 20-8 lead after seven minutes of play. Hamilton struggled · back to within 7 p0ints, 32-25, with four minutes remaining in the half, only to have the Dutchmen forge a run of their own, ending the half with a 43-29 advantage. Union shot 62 percent from the floor in the first half while the Continentals could only manage 33 percent shooting. Joe Clinton dished out eight assists and scored 10 points in th~ first half. John \The Count\ Montanile opened up the second half with a jmnfJ shot from the left corner to extend Union's lead to 45-29. However, Hamilton was not ready to give up as they ran off 12 unanswered points to put the score at 45-41 with 14 minutes remaining. Hamilton's Bob Kiely's jumper from 10 feet out allowed the Continentals to come within one point, 5tl-55, at the 6: 25 mark. A Hamilton comeback was not to be though, as Union outscored their op- ponents 12-2 in the next four minutes. Accurate foul shooting down the stretch allowed the Garnet to maintain a 10 point or better lead for the remainder of the game. The final score was 83-65. Clinton finished the game with 2() points and 10 assists. Montanile also scored 20 points and was game high in rebounding with 14. John Jarosak and Joe Wood scored 18 and 13, respectively. The Dutchmen took their 8-9 record into the fieldbouse on Friday night to face Mid- dlebury, a 9-7 ballclub who had beaten the Garnet by two points earlier this season. Both teams came out flat at the start of the game, especially Union, who contrasted their beautiful play in the Hamilton game. The first few minutes were characterized by numerous turnovers on fast breaks and missed easy shots. It was freshman forward Ken D'Orazio who finally got Union on track. D'Orazio hit his first three shots in a row for Union before being substituted for, seemingly for no justifiable reason. It was later learned from one of the players that ''it was felt he needed a rest.\ D'Orazio was soon put back in, satisfying the screams of the crowd. He rewarded his fans with a jump-hook shot im- mediately upon reentering the game. He continued his hot hand for the remainder of the half, shooting 6-7 from the field and 2-2 from the charity li.rJ.e, totalling 14 points. This was more than he has scored in any entire game this season. Joe Wood also had a fine first half, scoring 13 points to contribute to Union's 43-37 halftime advantage. During the halftime break, Middlebury's Coach Reilly told his players to \toughen up\ and toughen up they did. Mid- dlebury went on a 12 point binge before UI:lion called what this writer asserts was a \too late in coming\ time out. The time out came at 16:09 and Union went from six points up to six points down. The Dutchmen fought back to tie the score up at 53-53 with10:06remaining. But Union again had a defensive lapse as Middlebury got inside for easy layups to go ahead by 10, 63-53. Union made one. last surge as Continued on page 15 Pole Vaulter Gary Wenner going over 12'6\. 0 - 0' .s:: a. 1- a:: 0 0 i ~'

• nt 1n, who Eul .play l'he first cterized on fast y shots. trd Ken 1t Union his first r Union :ed for, stifiable learned that \it 1 rest.\ back in, ; of the 1is ,fans lOt im- ring the his hot r of the the .field ity line, ~is was din any :on. Joe rst half, ribute to .alftime ! break, !illy told up\ and i. Mid- nt binge hat this 1olate in time out on went ix points . fought at 53-53 ut Union lapse as for easy lO, 63-53. ;urge as 0 - 0 .c c. f-- 0:: n page 15 ege 1877 CXI, No. 15 February 18, 1982 . Dean Search Progressing By SUE BLOOMBERG Staff The end of Acting Dean Spring'.s term is approaching, and it has forced the Dean Search Committee to make major decisions in the selection process. The Committee has narrowed its selection choice to six candidates, who will each be invited to Union for e-valuation at the end of the Winter Term. Final decisions for Dean Professor Rudy Nydegger, Cha·irman of the Dean Search Com- mittee, Selection, according to Anti-Evolutionist Debates By PAUL GIRDANSKY _Staff Anti-evolutionist Luther Sunderland and adversary Frank Zindler spok~ at Intellectual Cabaret in Old Chapel Monday night. Almost one ·hundred watched the two debate on whether or not evoltuion should be taught in the public schools. A question and answer session followed the confrontation. . Although it had the ap- pearance of a debate, tne Cabaret was actually a forum for an hour long presentation by Sunderland and a rebuttal by Zindler lasting twenty minutes. Karen Norton, co-chairperson of the Intellectual Cabaret, indicated that Sunderland would not appeal:_. unless he received more time to .speak than his opponent. Sunderland opened the evening with his discourse. Fom the start he attempted to establish his credentials as a scientist, and maintained a distinct distance from the term ''creationism.\ Even when Sunderland described the different- theories of what he called \abrupt appearance,\ he used· the term \theistic abr Jpt appearance\ instead of \creationism.\ In addition he mentioned his long service for General Electric, and spoke of his complex inventions. He spent, in general, little time explaining '.'abrupt ap- pearance!'He simply mentioned that, in addition to creationism, other events could have caused the sudden beginning of life on Earth, including visitors from other places in the universe. Sunderland spent the bulk of his hour attacking evolution. He attacked disputed research from Darwin to Eldridge. He accused Darwin of \gross extrapolation\ for comparing the various widths of the beaks of finches in the varied anatomies of amoebae and man. Some of Sunderland's statements were indeed quite different from what is usually heard at Union; He said that scientists often adapted their theories to be able to \correlate them with evolution\ and ac- cused standard education systems of indoctrination and censorship. He cited the Geologic Table, as one example. Sunderland's basic method of disproving evolution was his finding of an absence of in- termediate life forms between current species and those of_the past. 1Ie maintained that there is no scientific proof that fish evolved into reptiles because no animal's fOSsil had ever been found that is half fish and half reptile. He also used other examples, claiming that marsupials are a separate and independent. lifeline,. and not an intermediary step between reptiles and mammals. He closed with his mocking in- terpretation of how evolutionists claim that ''cows turned into whales.\ Zindler had twenty minutes to refute Sunderland. The pace that he had to maintain forced him to talkin a scientific dialect that seemed to go over the heads of the non-scientific members of the audience. He did'not use the slide that he had brought with him because, as ne claimed, be did not receive a \bankroll from religious organizations.\ Calling ·in the most recent theoretical variation of evolutionists, \punctuated equilibrium,'' he said that evolutionary change had probably taken place in fits and starts, with changes in varying spans of five to fifty 'thousand years. This would mean that intermediary fossils would be in only a small sliver of the geologic spectrum and would be very difficult to find. Despite this handicap, Zindler pointed out that quite a few such fossils had been found. One example that he cited was the same fossil that Sunderland sought to disprove. Sunderland had indicated that the fossil of a certain bat proved that there was no evolution from reptiles to mammals. Zindler noted, however, that the fossil was o( an' ancestral bat who displaced characteristics of two separate forms of modern bat. After the rebuttal, Miss Norton opened the floor up to questions. During this period Sunderland was asked what he thought the consequences were of the current system of teaching originS. He simply stated, \I find it morally and socially corrosive.\ In turn, when Zindler was asked a comparable question about the teaching of only cr~ationism, he responded, \deprive us of the knowledge of the creatures that we are and we will not be able to solv~ our pr.oblems of tomorrow.\ Spring TerDI Pre-:registration · Pre-registration materials for spring term 1981-1982 will be available at the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration Building, beginning Monday, February 22nd. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the spring term, except for graduating seniors, must immediately give notice of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. Potential March graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the , · end of winter term, if they have not already done so. ~ Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the week of · February 22-26. Some departments may announce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such an- nouncements. · Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday; March 1st. A TEN DOLLAR ($10.00) LATE FEE WILL BE ASSESSED THEREAFTER! .Please be on time, even ·though _your schedule may be incomplete! PLEASE NOTE: REQUIRED PERMISSION CARDS FOR DESIGNATED SPRING TERM COURSES WILL NOT BE . AVAILABLE FROM DEPARTMENTS UNTIL THE THURSDAY MORNING OF THE WEEK OF PREREGISTRATION, FEBRUARY 25. Professor Rudy Nydegger, Chairman of the Committee, \will ,probably be made before the middle of the Spring Tenn.\ The new appointment would probably start early in the Summer since Dean Sprtng•s term ends during the month of June. According to Rudy Nydegger, there is a large range of possibilities among the six being invited to the ·college. The candidates include persons holding positions ranging from a Vice-President of Student Affairs to Associate Deans. Of course, if the selection com- mittee is dissatisfied with the chosen candidate, .stated Nydegger, \we will go beyond the six candidates.\ Nydegger mentioned that the committee was impressed with the quality of the candidates thus far and felt positive about their credentials. There will be two on-campus candidates, who will go through th€ same process as the other candidates. These candidates include Acting Dean Spring and Robert Massa, Director of Financial Aid. The interviewing process will be quite detailed and will touch all segments of the college campus. Each candidate will meet with upper level ad- ministrators, the Student Affairs Staff and the Student Affairs Council. The candidates will spend much time meeting with the Search Committee, which is composed of faculty, ad- ministrators and students. The Committee includes Rudy IEF Grants Nydegger, Chairman of the Committee; faculty members Bruce Reynolds and Edward Craig; Ruth Anne Evans; administrators John Hauser and Jiin Dow lings; and students Brian Marks, Marla Shore, Marabeth Soltis and Weldon Turner. The candidates will also spend a few hours with student groups and will hold an open meeting with faculty. In ad- dition, Nydegger stressed that anyone can become involved with the selection process. Direct access will be made for the student body to all can- didates. The Search Committee has devel()ped a questionnaire for anyone who meets with a candidate and is interested in making suggestions to the Committee. The Search Committee, according to Nydegger wants the \broadest base of support\ for its suggestions to the President. Before any of the candidates arrive on campus, a travel schedule will be printed to make everyone aware of the can- didate's itinerary. Nydegger is hoping to schedule two can- didates for interviewing before the end of Winter Term, although scheduling problems are possible at the end of the term. The interviewing process will be crucial in the Search Com- mittee's selection. It is probably that the Search Committee will suggest two or three choices to the President, who will make the final decision in the Spring Term. Spending A .Must By MARCY BURSTINER Staff The Internal Education Foundation is a fund which was established by the ad- ministration in 1977 to fun<t \educationally innovative projects.\ Last year the foundation received a budget of $100,000 with which they awarded $7,750 to student research projects. The reason for the large difference between the size of the budget and the money awarded to students is that a majority of the student body has never heard.of tlte IEF or they do not realize that they may be eligible to receive funding for projects. The original objective of the IEF was \to increase t:lle in- tellectual curiosity of the student body and provide op- portunities to which they can apply their intellectual abilities.\ In effect though, most of the proposals submitted have been from the faculty and the institution. According to Professor Francis Griggs, a member of the Researcb and Grants Subcouncil of the Academic Affairs Council, the IEF would love to see a reallocation of the b11dget towards more funding for student projects. The budget has already been cut from an original 2 percent of the total tuition revenues to the $100,000 that it now has. Unless more proposals are submitted, the foundation faces further cuts to their budget. Among\ the student projects which are awarded funds are senior theses, honor projects, and independent studies. Any full-time, day student may submit an IEF proposal, provided it is approved by a professor. Griggs explained, \the idea of the funding is to help them in their research, if they need to travel someplace, interview people, or pick up data or information. If they need a piece of equipment that the department does not have, that can be funded. About the only time we turn a student down is when it is apparent they haven't thought this thing through.'' What usually hap- pens, he maintains, is that the institution and the faculty are already aware that the money ~s available, so they get the1r proposals in early. The student body on the other hand is always the last to know. Continued on page .2

Page 2' OONOORDIENSIS, February 18, 198S New CNB-President John Morris announced this week that three new members have been selected to the Board of Trustees. Dr. Hobert H. Fur- man of Indiana()Olis, Ind.,. John S. Wold of Casper, Wyo., and Heinz Eppler of Palm Beach, Fla. will begin their terms immediately. Furman is a 1940 graduate ·of Union College, receiving his medical degree from the Yale University School of Medicine. A dean's list scholar and Student Council mem her as an undergraduate, Furman has been active as a Union alumnus. He is a charter member of the College's Trustees Board of Advisors, a member of the Institute of Administration and Management Council, and he serves on the membership . committee of the Terrace Council, a select group of Union benefactors. Before joining Eli Lilly and Company in 1970 as executive director of clinical research, Furman taught at Vanderbilt University and held a research position at the Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation and the University of Oklahoma School of Medicine. Since 1970, he has been a professor of medicine at the Indiana University Sch()O} of Medicine. Furman is the author or coauthor of more than 170 scientific papers in the fields of endocrine, cardiovascular, and metabolic disorders. He has served on the board of editors of several scientific publications, including the Journal of Laboratory and Clinical Medicine, and is a member of numerous professional organizations and societies, among them the American Heart Association and the Royal Society of Medicine~ He and his wife, Mary, have four children. A geologist and former U.S. Congressman, Wold is a Hl38 graduate of Union, receiving his master of science degree in geology from Cornell Univer- sity. At Union, he was the College's second exchange student to the University of St. Andrews in Scotland and was a Selected member of Sigma Xi, an honorary society dedicated to the encouragement of scientific research. 'Earlier this year, Wold was named to the Union Trustees Board of Advisors. Wold was the first professional geologist elected to the U.S. Congress, serving as the representative from Wyoming from 1969 to 1971. As the ''member from Wyoming,\ Wold served on the House Interior Committee and was the original sponsor in the House of Representatives of the \National Mining and Minerals Policy Act .of 1970.\ Wold has also served in the · Wyoming State Legislature, where he was chairman of ,the House Labor Committee. Wold is past president of the Casper College Board of Trustees, and has been involved in such community activities as the United Fund, the Boy S<:outs of America, and the YMCA. He is married to the former Jane Adele Pearson, and the couple has three children. A native of Mannheim, Germany Eppler came to the United States in 1938. Active in the retail business from the 1940s on, Eppler was president of a private finn in Cleveland, Ohio, which then emerged into MiUer-Wohl in 1969. In 1970, he was named chief operating officer of the company, and he assumed his current position as . chairman of the board and chief executive officer in 1973. Miller· Wohl is a New York Stock Exchange firm which operates 308 women's apparel stores coast to coast. Though not a college graduate himself, Eppler has been active in Union affairs, serving as chairman of the Parents Fund and as a member of the Ii'mer Circle of the Terrace Council. Eppler's daughter Nancy Eppler-Wolff graduated from Union in 1975, and his Son David will graduate this June. Eppler and his wife., the former Ruthe Bergson of Cleveland, also have a daughter Marcia Ann Calvin. Eppler is active in local and national civic activities. He serves on the executive com- mittee of the American Joint Distribution Committee and on the board of directors ·Of the Palm Beach Jewish Community Federation. He is also vice president of the Jewish Home far the Aged in Palm Beach County. Grants Available Continued from page 1 Twenty-one students were awarded funds last year for research projects. One student, Jefferey D. Brown, a mechanical engineering major, received $340 to research \Gyroscopic Effects of Various Automobile Engine Moun- tings.\ Two other students, Edward Lonegran and John 'Sciortino, both political science majors, received $315 to study \Changing Patterns of Com- petition in State Legislative Elections 1970-1978.\ Examples of faculty proposals awarded funding include $1;000 given to Donald Thurston of the History Dept. to fund the pur- chase of slides of Chinese and Japanese works of art. Two hundred fifty dollars was awarded to Sigrid Kellenter of the Modern Languages Dept. to fund the travel of the German 136 class to the Guggenheim Museum. Students interested in sub- mitting proposals must first of all get a faculty member to sponsor the project. After the professor has co-signed the proposal, the student must submit an IEF form to Dwight Wolfe, the Assistant to the Vice President for Academic Affairs. Forms are available at the Dean's office in the Science & Engineering Building. The next deadline for proposals falls on March 5 and notification for awards will be made on April L · For further information students are encouraged to contact Dwight Wolfe. B.LOODMOBILE STATS I would like to express my sincere thanks to all those people who helped to make the Blood- mobile a success here at Union, especially Theta Delta Chi who sponsored the event. On January 27, 28 and 29,_ according to initial reports, 62, 94, and 97 students .appeared, respectively; for .53 students, it was the first time that they have donated blood. Once again, the students and staff have turned out to do their part for the American Red Cross. We are very proud. Lorraine Marra Student Activities UNION COLLEGE STUDENT INFO liNE DIAL 6125 To get your activity on the info line, contact .·Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. WRUC TRIVIA CONTEST The standings at the end of the first week: Dorms · Independents Fox--25 Judy J unk--3 West--11 Dorp Salvage--2 Davidson--10 Penthouse--2 Richmond--2 Howie's Muffdivers--2 I Stumpers--17 Zombies--1 Oz's Subcomittee for Nuking Preps to Fraternities Make Room for- ZBT--23 Haitian Refugees--1 CHALLENGES: Many of the complaints were from people claiming thay were the first corr~ct caller (and in some cases told they were correct) but not given credit. All calls a.re put through a speaker so that more than just the phone an- swerers can hear the answers given. Thus, when we make a decision we are confident of our ruling. Important: We have gotten reports from many different people upset that they were repeatedly Media Outlet The College's News Bureau prints a weekly newsletter, the Chronicle, in an effort to keep the community abreast of ac~ tivities and news relevant . to Union. Additionally, the Bureau can release off-campus press . statements. The Chronicle staff encourages campus members ta submit news items so that tRey may be included; in sub- sequent issues or released to the proper sources. The deadline for all sections of the Chronicle., except the Union's Week section, is 4 p.m. the Friday before_the Friday of publication. The Union'S Week section is on a 10-day .calendar and has its ewn form for sub- mitting information, available at the News Bureau. The deadline is 1 p.m. on the Monday of that week's Chronicle. For off-campus press releases, the staff needs the information at least .five working days before the material is to be released. For cultural events, please try to submit material a .full three weeks in advance; many calendar listings which include these events have advanced deadlines that· must he met. Such information is necessary for a news release; 1. Where must the in- formation go-to the Chronicle or off-campus pul;llications, organi~ations, etc.? _ 2. Give the basic \who what, when, where and why.\ Include exact names, titles, etc. 3. In the case of a speaker or special event, what is the main point of attraction for the audience you seek? 4. Include other .information that will help in writing a release or story. A general news article form is available at the News Bureau to aid in supplying the above in- formation. called by people accidentally caiHng trivia numbers. We claim no responsibility for this-- beware of imitators! Two challenges were .about the validity of a couple of answers: Ronald Reagan, indeed, was supposed to play Rick in Casablanca, but, Ed Sullivan's show was known as \Toast of the Town\ not \Talk of the Town.\ Thus,- this question has been thrown out and an extra question will be asked this week in its place. And, since Davidson was given credit for a wrong answer we must take' away one of their points-- sorry. A copy of the questions wi II be on reserve at the library for those interested. However, no more challenges wi II be accepted. THE 5-POINT QUESTION TO BE ASKED FIRST THIS WEEK,IS: How did Harold Ransom Moore, Class of 1908, dJe? NOTE TO WRUC MEMBERS: Executive Board Elections a.re scheduled for 2-23-82 at 8 p.m. in the Fourth Floor Lounge of Carneg.ie.

Page 2 CONOORDIENSIS, February 18, 1982 New Trustees Selected CNB-President John Morris announced this week that three new members have been selected to the Board of Trustees. Dr. Robert H. Fur- man of Indianapolis, Ind., John S. Wold of Casper, Wyo., and Heinz Eppler of Palm Beach. Fla. will begin their terms immediately. Furman is a 1940 graduate ·Of Union Cellege, receiving his medical degree from the Yale University School of Medicine. A dean's list scholar and Student Council member as an undergraduate, Furman has been active as a Unior:J. alumnus. He is a charter member of the College's Trustees Board of Advisors, a member of the Institute of Administration and Management Council, and he serves on the membership . committee of the Terrace Council, a select group 0f Uni0n benefactors. Before joining Eli Lilly and Company in 1970 as executive director of clinical research, Furman taught at Vanderbilt University and held a research position at the Oklahoma Medical Research Foundatien and the University of Oklahoma School of Medicine. Since 1970. he has been a professor of medicine at the Indiana University School of Medicine. Furman is the author or coauthor of more than 170 scientific papers in the fields of endocrine, cardiovascular, and metabolic disorders. He has served on the board of editors of several scientific publications, including the Journal of Laboratory and Clinical Medicine, and is a member of n urnerous professional organizations and societies, among them the American Heart Association and the Royal Society of Medicine. He and his wife, Mary, have four children. A geologist and former U.S. member of Sigma Xi, an honorary sodety dedicated te the encouragement of scientific research. Earlier tl:lis year, Wold was named to the Union Trustees Board of Advisors. Wold was the first .pr0fessional geologist elected te the U.S. Congress, serving as the representative from Wyoming from 1969 te 1971. As the ••member fr9m Wyoming,\ Wold served on the House Interior Committee and was the original sponsor in the House of Representatives of the \National Mining and Minerals Policy Act of 1970.\ Wold has also served in tJ:le Wyoming State Legislature, where he was chairman of the House Labor Cerrnnittee. Wold is past president of the Casper College Board of Trustees, and has been involved in such community activities as the United Fund, the Boy Scouts. of America, and the YMCA. He is married ta the former Jane Adele Pearson, aEd the couple has three children. A native of Mannheim, Germany Eppler came to the United States in 1938. Active in the retail business from the 1940s on, Eppler was president of a private firm in Cleveland, Ohio, which then emerged into Miller-Wohl in 1969. In 1970, he was named chief operating officer of the company, and he asswned his current position as chairman of the board and chief executive officer in 1973. Miller- Wahl is a New York Stock E~change firm which operates 308 women's apparel stores coast to coast. Though not a co liege graduate himself, Eppler has been active in Union affairs, serving as chairman of the Parents Fund and as a member of the Inner Circle of the Terrace Council. Eppler's daughter Nancy Eppler-Wolff graduated from Union in 1975, and his son David w:Hl graduate this June. Eppler and his wife, the former Ruthe Bergson of Cleveland, also have a daughter Marcia Ann Calvin. Eppler is active in local and national civic activities. He serves on the executive com- mittee of the American Joint Distribution Committee and on the board of directors of the Palm Beach Jewish Community Federation. He is also vice president of the Jewish Home for the Aged in Palm Beach County. Grants Available Continued from page 1 the Modern Languages Dept. to fund the travel of the German 136 class to the GuggeNheim Museum. Students interested in sub- mitting proposals must first of all get a faculty member to sponsor the project. After the professor has co-signed the proposal, the student must submit an IEF form to Dwight Wolfe, the Assistant to the Vice President for Academic Affairs. Forms are available at the Dean's office in the Science & Engineering Building. The next deadline for proposals falls on March 5 and notification for awards will be made on Aprill. For further information students are encouraged to contact Dwight Wolfe. Media Outlet The College's News Bureau prints a weekly newsletter, the Chronicle, in an effort to keep the community abreast of ac~ tivities and news relevant to · Union. Additionally, the Bureau can release off-campus press statements. The Chronicle staff encourages campus members to submit news items so that they may be included in sub- sequent issues or released to the proper seurces. The deadline for all sections of the Chronicle, except the Union's Week section, is 4 p.m. the Friday before the Friday of publication. The Union's Week section is on a 10-day calendar and has its own form for sub- mitting information, avaita-ble at the News Bureau. The deadline is 1 p.m. on the Monday of that week's Chronicle. For off-campus press releases, the staff needs the information at least five working days before the material is to be released. For cultural events, please try to submit material a full three weeks in advance; many calelldar listings which include these events have advanced deadlines that. must be met. Such information is necessary fer a news release: 1. Where must the in• formation go-to the Chronicle or off-campus publications, organizations, etc.? 2. Give the basic \who what, when, where and why.\ Include exact Eames, titles, etc. 3. In the case of a speaker or special event, what is the main point of attraction for the audience you seek? 4. Include other infermation that will help in writing a release or story. A general news article form is available at the News Bureau to aid in supplying the above in- fermation. The AlumnlCouncH isorghlg s:eni1orsto n:m,for ··• th~ positions of · Class ~epresentatrves. Th~ Council is the governing board of the Alumni of Union. Each graduating class elects two Representatives to ihe CounciL These alumni~. · through cornmiitee . work and periodlc CouncH meetlngs; provide :an important input to the College decision ma.king process, Electiuns for the two~ positions win take plac~ on,·~Tuesday, Marctl 2nd, 011 the 2nd ffoor of ~r~!giel~au.( e~twe~n t. ur~of9·~~.-rt:t~ an(;i ~. 4,;'30p:.tr'h l?nty S~ttti'Ot'S ar:.~ ..... Mi;~d toc\firf;e. Nomi.nating petitlons will be available in the ~urnni Qtflce on . Monday~ F~~rl1~ry 22 and . \t<U~sdit'¥:t· ,RJ~~~rt~ary': 23 an.dr~~~sit liu:~,,endo.rsed· .by , .• 2B classmates;.·· Peritldns ;mlp~fJ)e' rett.lrne,d to 'the . AlumnlOf~i;t::e by 3 P~m. on.:~Thurs€1cty~ Fetiruary : ·, ,as~ifit\i.Ci~s&wiJt. :cillalh~n~e ln,.,tnlii:.. · · Congressman, Wold is a 1938 graduate of Union, receiving his master of science degree in geology from Cornell Univer- sity. At Union, he was the College's second exchange student to the University of St. Andrews in Scotland and was a Twenty-one students were awarded funds last year for research projects. One student,. Jefferey D. Brown, a mechanical engineering major,. received $340 to research \Gyroscopic Effects of Various Automobile Engine Moun- tings.\ Tw<> other students .. Edward Lonegran and Joha Sciortino, both political science majors, received $315 to study- \Changing Patterns of Com- petition in State Legislative Elections 1970-1978.'' Examples: of faculty proposals awarded funding include $1,000 given to Donald Thurston of the History Dept. to fund the pill'- chase of slides of Chinese and Japanese works of art. Tw() hundred fifty dollars was awarded to Sigrid Kellenter of 'J\esident f\dvisors -}fead 1\esident f\dvi sors-~ BLOODMOBILE STATS I would like to express my sincere thanks to all those people who helped to make the Blood- mobile a success here at Union, especially Theta Delta Chi who sponsored the event. On January 27, 28 and 29, according to i nitia I reports, 62, 94, and 97 students appeared, respectively; for 53 students, it was the first time that they have donated blood. Once again, the students and staff have turned out to do their part for the American Red Cross. We are very proud. Lorraine Marra Student Activities UNION COLLEGE WRUC TRIVIA CONTEST The standings at tile end of the first week: STUDENT INFO Dorms Independents Fox--25 Judy Junk--3 liNE West--11 Dorp Salvage--2 Davidson--10 Penthouse--2 Richmond--2 Howie's Mu.ffdivers--2 Zombi.es--1 DIAl Stumpers--17 Oz's Subcomittee for Nuking Preps to Fraternities Make Room for· 6125 ZBT--23 Haitian Refugees--1 CHALLENGES: Many of the complaints were from people claiming thay were the first correct To get your activity cal ier (and in some cases told they were correct) but not given credit. A.ll calls are put through a on the info line, speaker so that more than just the phone an- swerers can hear the answers given. Thus, when contact Mrs. Marra we make a decision we are confident of our in the Student ruling. Important: WehavEgotten reports from many Activities Office. different people upse1 that they were repeatedly -~ tA ..,.., E ....... called by people accidentally calling trivia numbers. We claim no responsibility for this-- beware of imitators! Two challenges were about the validity of a couple of answers: Ronald Reagan, indeed, was supposed to play Rick in Casablanca, but, Ed Sullivan's show was known as \Toast of the Town\ not \Talk of the Town.\ Thus, this question has been thrown out and an extra question will be asked this week in its place. And, since Davidson was given credit for a wrong answer we must take' away one of their .points-- sorry. A copy of the questions will be on reserve at the library for those interested. However, no more challenges will be accepted. THE 5-POINT QUESTION TO BE ASKED FIRST THIS WEEK IS: Howdid Harold Ransom Moore, Class of 1908, die? NOTE TO WRUC MEMBERS: Executive Board Elections are scheduled for 2-23-82 at 8 p.m. in the Fourth Floor Lounge of Carnegie.

the For to any . in- or the tion a uto in- s e s e e n OONOORDIENSIS, February 18, 198~ Page 3 }gecial ReP-ort: Financial Aid Battle - . ----Round Two Underway~ By PAUL GROSSMAN E'Utor-ln·Chief from Combined Sources & CPS The following is part one of a two-part special report on the recent -cuts in the 1983 federal budget proposed by the Reagan . Administration last week. Part ·two will follow next week. With the bell ending round one barely rung, round two in he battle over Reagan Budget cuts in financial aid is already un- derway. The Administration has already proposed harsh cuts that will affect student aid immediately. Congress will. be _finalizing the 1982 budget this April, but more ·immediate is the recent submission of President Reagan's 1983 Budget , proposal, asking for even deeper cuts in student aid programs. Here at Union, Director of Financial Aid Robert Massa has prepared a . second booklet outlining the future of financial aid, in light of the proposed budget cuts. The booklet states: \Everyone · will be affected directly or indirectly by these proposals. Those with little or no financial aid will feel the effects in two ways: 1) with institutions having to devote more of their own resources to the neediest . students, there will be little or no institutional money for those , who require a small amount of assistance; and 2) private · colleges will have to increase their casts even higher to partially compensate for decreased federal assistance. Of course, those who depend on financial aid now would feel the effects immediately and dramatically.'' College Reps Speak Out in Washington In what one of them termed a \his ti> ric\ gathering, representatives of the largest and most important college , groups in the land last week to preview with alarm - and to politicaUy surprise - President Ronald Reagan and the, 1983 edu-cation budget he wants Congress to pass. Representativ~s of state schools, private universities, community and junior colleges, students and iaculty members bitterly predicted that as manyc as two million college students will be hurt by the cuts, Thousands of them may be driven from campus altogether. \Deep cuts have already been made in appropriations for student financial aid,,; sum- marized Ed Hanley, lobbyist for the U.S. Student Association (USSA). \Further cuts are goin~~: to keep thousands of students from returning to college this fall, and others will never get to attend college at all.\ The spokespeople, solemnly facing an audience of reporters and association staffers · in a House committee hearing room, said the Reagan education budget would affect all federal student aid progFams: PELL GRANTS According to numbers leaked to the press, the administration wants Congress to cut funding for· Pell Grants- by 40 percent. Only students from families earning less than $14,000 a year could get the grants, compared to a <>limit of $27,000 this year. The maximum grant, moreover, would be $1,400, down from $1;670 this year. SUPPLEMENTAL EDUCA· TIONAL OPPORTUNITY. GRAN':rS SEOGs,. which currently serve some 615,000 college students, would be eliminated. NATIONAL DIRECT STUDENT LOANS Under the NDSL program, created during the Eisenhower administration, 250,000 students new get low-cost loans ta pay for school. The administration wHl ask Congress to end all funding for NDSLs. COLLEGE WORK-STUDY PROGRAM The Reagan budget calls for a 27 percent funding cut for this program, under which the federal government helps colleges pay students working their way through school. Observers estimate some 250,000 students will lose their jobs as a result of the cut. STATE STUDENT IN- CENTIVE GRANTS The SSIG fund matches grants made to students by the states. The administration wants to end the program en- tirely, which this year serves · 300,000 students. GUARANTEED STUDENT LOANS About 3.5 million students took out GSLs this year, but the administration wants to cut drastically the number of students eligible for them in the future. Reagan proposes to eliminate all graduate and professional s-chool students from the program, double the loan origination fee to 10 per- cent of the loan value, make borrowers pay market interest rates (up from the current nine percent) starting two years after leaving school, and limit GSLs to students with \unmet needs.\ But Dr. Edward Fo-x of the Student Loan Marketing Association, which helps arrange GSLs among banks around the country, says those changes might effectively mean the end of the GSL program. school, predicts John Phillips of the Nationa,l Association of Independent Colleges and Universities. \Asswning only half of those who drop out of independent colleges'' go on to public colleges, Phillips estimated \states would have to increase their subsidies by more than $500 million.\ Allan Ostar of the American Association of State Colleges and Universities then pointed out that many states them- selves have been badly hurt by the recession, and were unable to make up the difference·. He pointed out that most states' allocations to their public colleges haven't in- creased as fast as inflation. Still others worried about the ability of the 839,000 public college students who now get aid to hold on. A Southern Illinois University survey found that 61 percent of its students doubt they'l~ be able to continue in school full time next fall, when the first round of Reagan education cuts takes effect. These worries are echoed around the country: Dr. William Pickens of the California Post-Secondary Ecucation Commission frets about a \step-ladder effect\ in which private college students win have to transfer to public colleges, where they will displace the poorest students on the public campuses. Those students, in turn, would be bumped down the ladder to two- year institutions. The less-well- endowed students in community colleges will then be displaced, he fears. \The independent colleges are very fearful,\ reports Dr. John J. Conard of the Kansas State Board of Regents. \I don't see much hope. There just aren't any other sources (of aid money) to turn to.\ FEDERAL STUDENT AID FUNDING $3.fl $3.7 $3.5 $3.3 l·lcltidcs . .· .. : , .. r •. • ,.,.,, ... • $1.8 (Reagan request) \Any change in the (GSL) legislation is the forerunner of an incredible amount of ex- pensive paperwork for the banks (who actually make the loans),\ says Fox, who was not at the Washington press con- t-;:::::::· :Ame:r:ic:an:C:ou:nc:i:l :on:B:l:u:ca:tl:On====:::=======-::: ference. \Banks could certainly be dropping out in the future.\ More than 300,000 in- · dependent college students would probably be forced out of Union College Department of th.c Arts Presents tH-E MACBETH ' PROJECt From The Play By wm Shakespeare Feb. 26. 27. Mar. 1-6 FLORIDA from NYC $69 one way SAN JUAN from NYC $178 round trip also Twenty days in Europe from $1395 EASTER CRUISE 7 day Carib. Cruise R.T. Air-Alb. fo Miami All Cruise Amenities S.S. Festivals from $1064 UNION STUDENTs-We book all kinds of travel induding terms abroad, trips home, etc. Van Curler Traoellnc.~~ Schenectady 6 11 Stale Street · 3 7 4-317 6 ANIMA A Journal of Women's Issues .__ reminds you that the Deadline for articles is Monday, Feb. 22nd Please contact: Sharon at 370-6808, Anna at 377-5543, Dana at 370·6860

the For to any in• or the a to in- . y .. ·.~ .. :,·-~:. -- ... -:-- ... , a a d a g n CONOORDIENSIS~ February 18~ 1982 Page 3 ieecial Re9ort: Financial Aid Battle -----Round Two Underway~ By PAUL GROSSMAN Editor•in-Chief from Combined Sources & CPS The following is part one of a two-part special report on the recent cuts in the 1983 federal budget proposed by the Reagan Administration last week. Part two wi:ll follow next week. With the bell ending round one barely rung, round two in he battle over Reagan Budget cuts in financial aid is already un- derway. The Administration has a·lready proposed harsh cuts that will affect student aid immediately. Congress will be finalizing the 1982 budget this April, but more immediate is the recent submission of President Reagan's 1983 Budget proposal, asking for even deeper cuts in student aid programs. Here at Unio11, Director of Financial Aid Robert Massa has prepared a second booklet outlining the future of financial aid in light of the proposed budget cuts. The booklet states: \Everyone will be affected directly or indirectly by these proposals. Those with little or no financial aid will feel the effects in two ways: 1) with institutions having to devote more of their own resources to the neediest students, there will be little or no institutional money for those who require a small amount of assistance; and 2) private colleges will have to increase their costs even higher to partially compensate for decreased federal assistance. Of course, those who depend on financial aid now would feel the effects immediately and dramatically.\ College Reps Speak Out in Washington In what one of them termed a \historic\ gathering, representatives of the largest and most important college groups in the land last week to preview with alarm - and to politically surprise- President Ronald Reagan and the 1983 education budget he wants Congress to pass. Representatives of state schools, private universities, community and junior colleges, students and iaculty members bitterly predicted that as many as two million college students will be hurt by the cuts. Thousands of them may be driyen from campus altogether. \Deep cuts have already been made in appropriations for student financial aid,\ sum- marized Ed Hanley, lobbyist for the U.S. Student Association (USSA). \Further cuts are going to keep thousands of students from returning to college this fall, and others will never get to attend college at all.\ The spokespeople, solemnly facing an audience of reporters and association staffers in a House committee hearing room, said the Reagan education budget would affect all federal student aid programs: PEU. GRANTS According to numbers leaked to the press, the administration wants Congress to cut funding for Pell Grants by 40 percent. Only students from families earning less than $14,000 a year could get the grants, compared to a •limit of $27,000 this year. The maximum grant, moreover, would be $1,400, THE BOTTOM LINE Approximate No. of Students who would lose Federal Aid in 1983 Under~e~lWag~ Propo$1. Percent .. down from $1,670 this year. SUPPLEMENTAL EOUCA- TIONAL OPPORTUNITY GRANTS SEOGs, which currently serve some 615,000 college students, would be eliminated. NATIONAL DIRECT STUDENT LOANS Under the NDSL program, created during the Eisenhower administration, 250,000 students now get low-cost loans to pay for school. The administration will ask Congress to end all funding fer NDSLs. COLLEGE WORK~TUDY PROGRAM The Reagan budget calls for a 27 percent funding cut for this prngram, under which the federal government helps colleges pay students working their way through school. Observers estimate some 250,000 students will lose their jobs as a result of the cut. STATE STUDENT IN- CENTIVE GRANTS The SSIG fund matches grants made to students by the states. The administration wants to end the program en- tirely, which this year serves 300,000 students. GUARANTEED STUDENT LOANS About 3.5 million students took out GSLs this year, but the administration wants to cut drastically the number of students eligible for them in the future. Reagan proposes to eliminate all graduate and professional school students from the program, double the loan origination fee to 10 per- cent of the loan value, make borrowers pay market interest rates I up from the current nine percent l starting two years after leaving school, and limit GSLs to students with '·unmet needs.\ But Dr. Edward Fox of the Student Loan Marketing Association, which helps arrange GSLs among banks around the country, says those changes might effectively mean the end of the GSL program. \Any change in the ( GSL) legislation is the forerunner of an incredible amount of ex- pensive paperwork for the banks (who actually make the loans),\ says Fox, who was not school, predicts John Phillips of the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities. \Assmning only half of those who drop out of independent coUeges\ go on to public colleges, Phillips estimated \states would have to increase their subsidies by more than $500 million.\ Allan Ostar of the American Association of State Colleges and Universities then pointed out that many states them- selves have been badly hurt by the recession, and were unable to make up the difference. He pointed out that most states' allocations to their public colleges haven't in- creased as fast as inflation. sun others worried about the ability of the 839,000 public college students who now get aid to hold on. A Southern Illinois University survey found that 61 percent of its students doubt they'll be able to continue in school full time next fall, when the first round of Reagan education cuts takes effect. These worries are echoed around the country: Dr. William Pickens of the California Post-Secondary Ecucathn C01nmission frets about a \step-ladder effect\ in which private college students will have to transfer to public colleges, where they will displace the poorest students on the public campuses. Those students, in turn, would be bumped down the ladder to two- year institutions. The less-well- endowed students in community colleges will then be displaced, he fears. \The independent colleges are very fearful,\ reports Dr. John J. Conard of the Kansas State Board of Regents. \I don't see much h.ope. There just aren't any other sources <of aid money) to turn to.\ FEDERAL STUDENT AID FUNDING $3 6 $3 7 FY79 FYOO $3 5 $3.3 $1.8 {Reagan request ) (bystate) · · 248 78Z ·~:§; ~~&ta toss 50 ss JOURCE: Amcr 1can Counctl on Etlucatton at the Washington press con- t-;:==============::;========~ ference. \Banks could certainly 'j·;. •. ;;.~~<> •!10· ·.· . ·: . -:.. . ~ .tJ<il . ~--. be dropping out in the future.\ More than 300,000 in- dependent college students would probably be forced out of Union College: Department of the Arts Presents tHE MACBETH ' PROJECt From The Play By wm Shakespeare F c b. 2 6, 2 7, Mar. 1 - 6 FlORIDAfrom NYC$69oneway SAN JUAN from NYC $178 round trip also Twenty days in Europe from $1395 EASTER CRUISE 7 day Carib. Cruise R.T. Air-Alb. to Miami All Cwise Amenities S.S. Festiva Is from $1064 UNION STUDENTS-We book all kinds of travel including terms abroad, trips home, etc_ Van Curler Travel Inc.~~ Schenectady 611 Stale Slreel 3 7 4-3176 ANIMA A Journal of Women's Issues reminds you that the Deadline for articles is Monday, Feb. 22nd Please contact: Sharon at 370-6808, Anna at 377-5543, Dana at 370-6860

Page 4 OONCORDIENSIS_, February 18, 1982 I • ,' t • 0 ,' ,' • • 0 . '' ' . 0 • • ol I ' I • • • 0 , ... , 0 r\ • 0 , _' I '' > '> features Ramee's design of the campus in 1813 was not designed to accommodate automobiles. Freshmen CommUters ByOAVf: FITZGERALD Staff a roommate and new surroundings, the commuter must make transportation plans and adjust personal schedules. Commuting to Union is not like walking back and forth to high school. at Uaion. If commuting is to be a valuable experience to the student, he-she must not become isolated from the rest of the students and there must be a greater amount of un- derstanding among the rest of the student body. Commuting is really not as bad as some may think. - 'Traffi·c Problems By PAUL GINSBERG Staff Although the automobile represented to Joseph Jacques Ramee no more than a problem for future generations to con- test, its invention of and in- creasing presence on the Union College campus has induced various substantive problems. Designed solely to ac- commodate pedestrians, the Ramee design of 1813 has over the course of the last century been altered to facilitate the daman.ds of the automotive age. While these alterations have preserved the integrity of the Ramee Campus, one need ,only to speak to a car-owning resident or commuter student to appreciate that automobile transportation within the College walls, remains at 'best a nuisance, at worst, a night- mare. Cliffard Wood, Director of Campus ·Security and Safety, noted that North Lane, the road in front of Carnegie Hall, is the most heavily trafficked on Campus, and as a result it is a formidable trouble spot. Says Mr. Wood, \Several important student facilities are located there: The Pub, the mailroom and Cabaret. There is a large traffic flow there, as well as a blind tum, making for an ex- treme safety area.\ Mr. Wood noted that several solutions are planned fer the immediate future to alleviate the situation. The first includes the closing of North Lane to all traffic other than emergency vehicles and postal trucks. Mr. Wood also commented that in the foreseeable future, aU roadways on the Union College Campus will be closed to traffic, essentially reverting the Campus back. to a pedestrian one, as designed by Ramee. Several problems will have to be reconciled, however. before the conversion can occur. Present:ly, a total of 2024 residence, commuter, evening student, and faculty vehicles are registered with Campus Security and Safety. HowEver, only 804 parking .spaces exist on campus. Mr. Wood did, however, acknowledge that additional parking facilities are planned for the future in order to alleviate this apparent overload. The conversion to a pedestrian campus, a godsend to some, an inconvenience to others, will effectively restore the Union College Campus to its original design. The acrobatic delicacy of a Datsun· 280Z, airborne over a speed .bump, wiH, however, be sorely missed. There is a rare breed of students in the classrooms of Union College but they will not be fo\Uld in the dorms or dining halls. Well, you are probably saying that these students are different because they don't eat or sleep, actually they are Freshman commuters. In this year's freshman class there are about twenty com- muters from the Schenectady area. Of course, it would be easy to say that these people are special (or strange) because they are able to live with their parents, but this is a great in· justice. The commuter is tired of hearing, \Couldn't leave Mommy and Daddy, hey?\ We'll it is time to set the record Sometimes living at home is not the easiest thing. Studying can become impossible when your sister decides to practice her clarinet. Parents may be a problem, too, sometimes, so training them to stop their bad habits,. such as asking too many questions, is a necessity. The commuting student never likes to hear his parents say \Did you finish all your homework?\ or \Eat all your vegetables.\ I Featuring ..• The Wild Man l straight. ~ Before deciding to live off campus each commuter had to weigh the advantages and disadvantages. Some of the advantages are: home cooked meals, keeping your own room, and for some, the savings. The disadvantages include being away from some of the things that happen on campus, brothers and sisters, and trying to get here on cold winter mornings. Getting accustomed to Union can be as difficult for the commuter as it can be for the resident student. Where the resident student must adjust to The commuting student has the opportunity to see the campus community from two different perspectives. The commuter can see things as an outsider because of greater interaction with the outside community. Or the commuter can see things as a regular resident student would. The commuter can be more of>. jective about college life because of the ability to look at things in two different wa.ys. It ·is thEt commuting student's responsibility to share his-her opinions with others and to become involved in campUs activities. If the trend of students to go to colleges closer to home con- tinues, there will probably be a greater number of commuters Blame it on Union By ERIC RUBEN Staff SPLASH! That is the last thing I heard before he disap- peared. I was surprised to say the least. I thought it was safe. How could Jt happen? He was gone forever. It all happened ten years ago. My college days were filled with the usual college things, but what stands out most is how I lost Bill. He was a friend. They never found him. We were walking to class together as we quite often did. I had just bought my super-duper waterproof boots. They were amazing. The bottoms had the most amazing oil-resistant treads I ever saw. It was ob- vious that one needed these boots on campus, especially on that day. The campus was littered with potholes, like an adolescent with a bad case of acne. After it rained the holes became little lakes of assorted shapes and .sizes .. One. could eveo.ma.k.e. a game of trying to keep from stepping on these lakes. Sooner or later you would lose due to the large number of them. This time the holes were filled because of huge amounts of melting snow. Anyway, there we were and suddenly he stepped into a lake and there was a large SPLASH. He was gone. I yelled for help but it was too late. They never found him. So once a year I put flowers by the pothole. It helps me sleep at night. -.WE OELIVER- 374-.1888 By ROBERT DIUSCOLL Staff Author's Note! All right, first things firs~. This artie!le is not- and never was going to be-a paper for a sociology course. This article is not being used because the reporter (Robert Driscoll) was supp4lsed to write a different article but because he was so irresponsible and didn't write anything, we were left with 22¥2 empty inches and nothing to use except this. Nope, that's not the reason. We happened to be deeply in- terested in wild men. So, I want to emphasize tilat this is not a sociology paper. However, there are, I suppose, a few sociological implications im- plicit in this article. Who is the wild man in society? As a matter ofcourse, I would answer, \my brother.\ But the question in qnestion is a good deal more complex than mere sibling rivalry. So, who is the \wild\ man in society? In order to find out, one needs a good operational definition of \wild.\ I went to the source, The Oxford English Dictionary, where I found several possible answers. My operational definition of \wild\ is \un- conventional; acting or moving freely without restraint.\ This definition, it would seem, in- cludes a lot of people, including my brother, who at times acts against me without restraint. Wild men, therefore, can in- clude eccentrics like Henry David Thoreau and the bag lady who sleeps on the corner of Jay and State Streets. 464 State St. Schenectady, NY My definition also includes a kid I used to see named Walter, who was one of the most in- teresting and least articulate people I ever met. Walter was anywhere from eleven to fourteen years old-1 was never sure, for he always gave a different answer. He was short, dirty, and, at times, very noisy and a big pain in the neck. Next to my brother, I would have to say that Walter is the quintessential \wild\ man in society. Walter is certainly unconventional. I used to see him where I worked at a Kansas Fried Chicken franchise. He would sometimes spend over thirty dollars in a couple of hours at the pinball machines there. When he wanted to use a machine that others were using, he would yell and scream at them to let him play. That action is unconventional and was made without restraint. Walter didn't obey many of the r:torms of society. He was disruptive, overly noisy, and virtually uncontrollable. The only way to stop his screaming was to let him have what he wanted, to, as many say, give- the baby his bottle and let him play-the machine, even though he was cutting in front of those who had been waiting with much more patience. Americans, our book notes, have the largest concept of personal space than that of any other nationality. Walter has an even larger idea. Anyone within two or so feet while he was playing would get a blast of his bizarre imitation and com- bination of a broken police siren with a Brooklyn accent. Part of the reason for Walter's estrangement from the norms, mores, and folkways of scrciety is probably due t() his school, a \One-to-One\ school. The Mathews School, as he would always mention, was for special children, and only thirty were special enough · to be enrolled there. He learned only English and Math, and only for two hours a day. Others, he admitted, learned Spanish, but not many. This unconventional school may be the reason for Walter's unconventionality. Or, perl1aps, Walter's unconventionality is the reason he goes to such an unconventional school. More likely, it's a combination of the two. If it's the latter of the two, however,. The Oxford E11glish Dictionary takes the possi_bility into account. Wild can also be the lack of control of ()ne's mind. Even in that case, Walter would still be considered \wild.\ Henry f?avid Thoreau would nolongerfit. Lenny ()f Of Mice and Men, though, wowd fit in that category, even though he belongs to the first one as well. So, who is the \Wild\ man in society? He is the Walters; the Lennys, the bag ladies; he is all around us. The \wild\ man is as different as those who fit the criteria. (See, wasn't that interesting and well-written? Wasn't that concise, well thought-out, 11sing good detail? Don't you think? And don't you think that it deserves something better 1han a C-? C'mon, that was worth at least, oh, I don't know, a C or a C+! Ithink so, and if you d() too, please write in and get all your friends, too, and back me up. You'd be helping a good cause, and it's tax deductible. Send now, for a free no obligation brochure, Thanx. R.D.) 116 Days til. G·raduationl

1 ex- reral the udes o all ency Mr. It in aU liege 1ffic, th,e :rian e. re to 1fore cur. 2024 ning icles lpUS :ver, 1t on did, that are rder rent a ;end l to tore ~its 'a tic soz, mp, sed. ' his 1001. he ; for lirty be only r for , he but hool ter's taps, f is 1 an !lore tthe two, ~lish lility o be .ne's 1lter Jred reau If Of .d fit hhe rvell. ill in the s all is as the ting that dng nk? t it han 11 at ~r a too, •our up. 11se, end tion - CONCORDIENSIS, February ).8_, 198~ PageJ \ feature Humor: Union's Season By BOB VanVORlS Staff \Stepping into the bunkhouse,. Debbie was at the same time surprised and aroused to find the walls covered' with whips, chains, and other devices that defy description. The mirrored ceiling re.flected a circular water bed, dimly lit from above. Turning to the first of the three cowboys, she began to unfasten his leather riding chaps and .- . ..• \Hey Bob! Didn't you say , something about doing some work tonight?\' \What? Uh, yeah ... yeah. I guess I did.\ Reluctantly putting aside \Debbie Does Dodge City\ I remembered that I had a Precep,torial paper due the next morning. I stood, looking out the window, and noticed on,ly the usual. gray precipitation. Forgetting my paper, it sud- denly struck me that almost everyone at Union complains about the weather but that nothing is ever done about it. It was at that moment that I resolved to take action. I realized that a complete understanding of the complex weather patterns of Union College and the surrounding area would require extensive research on my part: Toward this end I obtained the help of Dr. Bertram V. Rosinov, Associate Professor of Meterology at Skidmore College, and noted authority on the weather of the upper Mohawk and Hudson Valley regions. Making use of the latest in state of the art equipment that Skidmore has to offer (K-Mart KM-1000 \Mr. Computer\) we were able to analyze data from the founding of Union College in 1795 to the present. After m~ny hours of painstaking study we were drawn to the startling, but inescapable, conclusion that the academic year is characterized by the presence of three distinct, predictable, meteorological periods which Rosinov termed \autumn\, \winter\, and \spring\. A detailed description of each is as follows: Autumn: Nowhere in the world can there be a campus more beautiful than that of Union College during this season. Cool breezes gently carry brilliantly colored leaves to the ground .. Students are observed enjoying rugby and soccer in the warm autumn swt. Sadly, no up- perclassman ever experiences autumn at Union as it has never been known to outlast Orien- tation. Winter: Covers the period {rom September 22 to about May 22 .. During winter, the colleg~ takes on an appearance reminiscent of the scene that must h;:ve greeted the polar expedit.om, of Scott and Amundsen in 1912; minus the penguins. The bleak permafrost of Library Field is interrupted only by the inl- posing figure of a huge, sixteen- sided Igloo .. 5tudents homesick for warmer dimates can be seen growing tundra in window boxes. Hope is useless; all of Union's groundhogs winter in the Bahamas. Spring: It is during this season that the several thousand metric tons of snow IT).elt, turning the \brook that bounds'· into the \brook that ram- . pages\ necessitating federal flood relief for low-lying fr a tern it ies. Substitute \suicidal' pre-meds\ for \brilliantly colored leaves'' and spring is in all other respects identical to autumn. Given the fact that a year at Union costs nearly ten thousand dollars, the poor quality of the weather is nothing short of. outrageous. A look at Union's 1981-82 budget verifies the fact that not a single cent of this money is allocated for \Cloud Seeding\ or \Appeasement of Rain Gods\. This criminal lack of attention. to weather on the part of the administration is appalling. Not surprisingly, President Morris could not be reached for comment. In an obvious at- tempt to keep the lid on this \scandal\, his secretary described him as bein~ away for the day. \Visitin~ onhans\; conveniently unavailable to answer to these charges. \During winter, the college takes on an appearance :remin~scent of thatfound on polar expecHtions .. .'' Ga.r L~fe at Unio~n: Questions and Answers By THOMAS CHING · Staff Writer's Note: The original purpose of this article was to depict the Gay Discussion Group as just another \club\ on campus and another facet of campus life. However because of several factors, most notably the .groups' decision not to become a single entity (see interview) and the participation of a spokesperson for the group, the article has become a combination of questions and answer interview, background information and an \evaluation\ of the answers. TC: How would you describe the Gay Discussion Group? SP (Spokesperson): The group is more or less considered a network of people who want to get together and talk. Because of different political views and various stages of \coming out\ we have decided not to solidify. We consider ourselves as separate entities and would like to encounter situations on an one-to-one basis. TC: What is the principal function of the G DG? SP: We are basically here to provide social, political, and psychological support for gay and lesbian students at Union. To a point, we are self-serving in that we offer support for new and old members, trying to be a basically informational and consciousness raising group for ourselves. We are here mainly for those who \need us and want our services\ because of the lack of interest and insecurity exhibited by the straights on campus. TC: In what ways do you offer support? How can people who need help and support contact you? SP: We feel that by just being here we are being a help to others. There's a sense of security to a point where you can discuss issues with others and where you shouldn't be afraid that you're not the only one. We serve the community college community through films (last term's presentations of Witches and Faggots; Dykes and Poofters and Straight Talk About Lesbians}, literature (the GDG's subscriptions to NYC News-Alive and Gay Com- munity News-Boston) which are available at Schaeffer Library and support through the mail (contact Box No. 2575) and the phone. TC: Has the conservative atmosphere at Union hindered the growth and diversification of the group? SP: Not really. There is an occassional subtle flak and 'tone it down' attitude on the part of various departments. But on the whole I don't think that the· atmosphere has hin- dered growth. Instead of being afraid of the GDG people are rather more afraid of appearing not to be liberal. TC: Has the GDG en- countered any adverse factors on campus? condone. Marriage, children and careers versus · homosexuality. To a point there is a feeling of debt to one's parents and to society because we cannot abide by their ex- pectations. This can be related to grades. If you get a C you are in some ways failing to live up to your parents' expectations. If your parents happen to value good grades. ln a way, being gay is also a way in which yoa fail to live up to their wishes for grandchildren, security, among others. TC: How has the role of the gay stereotype in media changed? Or has it? SP: Stereotypes are definitely getting better. There is no longer 'a depiction of gays as, murderers and perverts. Also there has been an increase in sensitive and 'realistic treat- ment of homosexuals as people. The reaction to the new movie Making Love has been generally good in that the characters are treated with sympathy and honesty. The controversial television sitcom Soap also tried to offer a sympathetic view of homosexuality thus making it a prime target for the ban by right wing· groups. TC: How do you deal with prejudice? Through arguing? ''It's Down'' SP: Not really. Most of the problems are individual and on a one\on-one level. The only real problem that we faced lP )t term was poster defacing. But sur- prisingly the campus has taken us more seriously. We believe that by acting \legitimately\ and avoiding an existence as a \clandestine society' • we will be treated more seriously and as \just another group\. SP: Arguing I think is not the answer because one finds that there are many underlying reasons to prejudice. Most people have a let and let live idea of \as long as they don't bother me\. The feeling of laissez-faire coupled with fears of being approached and of questioning of one's own sexuality makes it difficult to argue. You're not trying to change their minds about homosexuality · but to make them accept you for what yoll are. You present yourself as a person first and if the question of your sexuality comes up. it comes up. By PAUL GIRSDANSKY Staff For the third time in as many minutes, I received no response from the Computrend 4000 terminal after I had punched in my user code and password. \This mother of a computer is busted\ I muttered in a beginning computer science student's agony. Ricky, a veteran of four years of computer warfare, ex- plained, \it's down.\ \Baloney it won't work. If it doesn't work, it's broken. If it's broken, it's busted.\ \No replied Ricky, \it's down.\ \WHAT DO YOU MEAN IT'S DOWN??? THE DAMN THING IS RIGHT UP HERE IN FRONT OF MY FACE.\ \It's down.\ He looked quite vehement in his desire to defend his cybernetic semantics. _r knew it was a lost cause. \It's down,\ I agreed. Whew! I'm glad I cleared that hurdle, because now I am on the road towards becoming a computer expert. I can now make a two million dollar machine tell me what two times RENNI SCHOONMAKER Speaker /Magicia.n Will be speaking on the Gospel of John Tuesday, February 23rd, 7:30 - 9:00 p.m Fourth Floor lounge Carnegie nine is, and I've almost figured out how to get a square root·. It's a pretty good life. I guess J· can look. forward to megabucks when I get out of school. It sure beats st1,1dying Bismarck for five years ·so I could become an good, but unemployed conversationalist. Really, I'm having a good tinle now. I love the compiler parties and getting on the cs,. EE composite. It's a real gas describing . a trip to the bathroom as a systems dump. Best of all, it's great to know the lingo. Just last week, I passed a student kicking the New York Times machine because she received neither her newspaper nor her thirty cents back. \Damn thing's busted,\ she muttered. \No \ I corrected her \It's . . ' down. · \Bullshit it's busted.\ \It's down.\ She stopped beating me up when I gave her thirty cents. TC: How do you view the tolerance of the gays in general? SP: There is a \radical\ conservative trend in the nation. Union is just a small representation of the nation. Because of these conservative times, the spokesperson was surprised at the recently for- med gay groups at RPI and Skidmore. Presently the con- servative Family Protection Act before both Houses cannot be said to be very tolerant. It prohibits funding by the federal government of any group, activity or individual who ad- vocates a homosex:uallife style. In addition., it bars attorney funded through the Legal Service Corp. to participate- in any litigation involving homosexuals: TC: How do you think society as a whole views gays? SP: Undoubtedly, society governs and establishes ideals. There are some that they ap- prove of and others that they TC: Where does the GDG go from here? What are your plans for the future? SP: There will probably be more events with the SUNY A group, the sponsoring of speakers and showing of films but immediate plans are as yet uncertain, However there will be more emphasis on discussions which will be ad- vertised on campus every 2-3 weeks. We will also probably also meet with the new groups recently formed at Skidmore and RPI to offer support and other help. Letters Page6-7 s: <ll

Page 6 CONCORDIENSiS, February 18 1 1982 Edit~ rials Letters Editorials By-Law-Less The Student Forum, whose responsibility it is to oversee all student clubs and organizations, is operating with outdated bylaws. These by·laws contain all of the specifics which enable the Forum to execute its responsibilities-the actions which provide the Forum with the praper procedure to deal officially with each organization's financial and operational fwtctions. The existing bylaws have not been altered since 1978. With this year's election turnover, the Student Forwn has finally decided to author an updatecl, dear set of bylaws under which it may officially function. Yet how could Student Forum allow three years to pass without rectifying this situation? Many of the regulations contained within the 1978 bylaws simply do not apply to the present Forum. The rules, therefore, are not functional and must be corrected immediately. The student government is proceeding in a manner which is based on an obsolete set of bylaws! The recreation of the Forwn 's bylaws is no minor task. Before the Forum runs each meeting, it must be fully aware of the lack of valid procedural rules upon which it is basing its actions. Essentially, the Forum is acting in an undeniably unprepared manner, and with these inappropriate bylaws, is unable to justify accurately its process and procedure. Therefore, it should be the primary goal of each and every member of the Forum to formulate these vital and necessary procedural specifics without haste. How can the student governing body of Union Co]Jege continue to run its affairs with no accurate set. of rules? The Forum hopes a rough draft of the new bylaws will be drawn up by the end.of this term and that the compilation and approval will be completed by the close of the 1982 academic year. In the meantime, the Forum will continue to function in the best way possible. However, the urgency of the resolution of this issue must not be lost. No time would be too soon for the rectifying of this outdated system. Members of the Student Forum cannot deny the importance of this issue. It cannot be stressed enough that the basis .of the Forum's actions is incomplete, for defined rules that apply to the present Forum exist, but are so inappropriate as to be worthless. It is unable to operate efficiently without an up-to-date applicable set of bylaws. This situation necessitates immediate action. All those involved in the rewriting procedure must not lose the perspective of their vital task. The present Forum must be conunended as it has finally acknowledged the significance of this major discrepancy. Their goal is notable indeed. Let each member, therefore, contribute to the reworking of the bylaws to provide the Forwn with an accurate set of its necessary rules. Continuing to work under an obsolete system cannot be tolerated for long. The amount of time already taken to put this project underway cannot be easily dismissed. The correction of the old bylaws goes far beyond the weekly Monday meetings. Each member of a campus organization that is in need of funding or approval of any kind is also in need of a set of rules that can operate efficiently. Any individual member of the campus community, too, has the right to see, question, and understand the laws that govern the student government. These are also the people who share in the need for an organized set of bylaws and must not remain in the dark as to the present procedure of the Student Forum. The time to act is now. Three years has been long enough for the resolution of this situation. We should not have to wait tbree more years. In Response After discussion with the Dean of Students, it was confirmed that investigative charges will, in fact, be brought against Psi Upsilon Fraternity for the reasons stated in the editorial. It should be noted that no accusations were made; the intent of the editorial was to point out that the Conduct Committee will be acting in an investigative capacity to examine every aspect of the incident and to determine the guilt .or innocence of all who were involved or allegedly involved. The question to be determined is the degree of participation taken by the fraternity as a whole. It is obvious that Psi Upsilon Fraternity was involved to some undetermined extent in the incident; there are Psi U brothers who unfortunately have the bruises to prove that point. Whether the fraternity in toto was involved has yet to be decided. If the fraternity is as guiltless as Mr. John contends (and we sincerely hope that is the case) then such an investigation could only help to clear the air and prove once and for all the guilt or innocence of those involved. The charge that ConcCJrdy was \careless\ and \un- professional\ in its reporting of the incident is something that can only be judged by .our readers. Regarding the incident in question, every fact was confirmed by at least two sources; most often, however, three sources were used (Security, Dean's Office, personal investigation ) . \Good laws lead to the making o.f better ones; bad ones brin.~ about worse.\ Jean Jacques Rousseau Th~ Social Contract, 1762 I .·.i Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor Managing Editor News Editor 'Features Editor \ Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors · National News Editor Copy Editor Sports Editors Photo Editors - Photography Consultant~ Cartoonist e:qta Julie Abelman, Joey Beckerman, Norman Birnbach, Sue Bloomberg, Marcy Burstiner, Thomas Ching, Megan Cummings-saxton, RobertS. Driscoll, Tim Emswiler, David Fitzgerald, Sharon Feldman, Donna Getson, P.S. Girsdansky, Leise! Golden, Mike Hunt, Deborah Levine, Tom Megerian, Rich Mintz, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Brian Quint, Daniel Rosenfield, Eric W. Ruben, Martin San~s, E.J. Sapir, Michael Sharp, Andrew Sobel, Joel Stem, Steve Van Ness, Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne Business Staff Jennifer Amler, Maryann Gagliardi, Evelyn Gurdin Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris, III, Chris Eshelman Photo Staff Janet Guiliano, Robert Tang CONCORDIENSIS is publif!hed every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United .states. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). :.~

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, February 18, 198~ Editorials Editorials Letters I Letters By-Law-Less The Stude~t Forwn, whose responsibility it is tG oversee all student clubs and organizations, is operating with outdated bylaws. These bylaws contain all·()f the specifics wllich enable the Forum to execute its responsibilities-the actions which p~ovide the For~ ~it~ th~ pro~er pr()cedure t? deal officially with each orgamzatlon s fmanctal and operational functions. The existing bylaws have not been altered since 197ll. With this year's election turnover, the Student Forum has finall.y decided to author an updated, clear set of bylaws wtder which it may officially fmtction. .Yet how c~~d Stu~ent. For~ allow three years to pass Without rectifying this situation? Many of the regulations contained within the 1978 bylaws simply do not apply to the present Forwn. The rules, therefore, are not functional and must be corrected immediately. The student government is proceeding in a manner which is based on an obsdete set of bylaws! The recreation .of the Forum's bylaws is no minor task. Before the ForW11 runs each meeting, it must be fully aware of the lack of vali~ procedural rules upon which it is basing its actians. Essentially, the Forum is acting in an undeniably unprepared manner, and with these inappropriate bylaws, is unable to justify accurately its process and procedure. Therefore it should be the primary goal of each and every member of 'the Foru_rr: to _formulate these vital and necessary procedural sp~cifics without haste. How can the student governing body of Umon College continue to run its affairs with no accurate set of rules? The Forum hopes a rough draft of the new bylaws will be drawn up b~ the end of this term and that the compilation and approval will be completed by the close of the 1982 academic year. In the meantime, the Forum will continue to function in the best way possible. However, the urgency of the l.'\esolution of this issue must not be lost. No time would be too soon for the rectifying of this outdated system. Members of the Student Forwn cannot deny the importance of this issue. It cannot be stressed enough that the basis ()f the Forum's actions is incomplete, for defined rules that apply to the present Forwn exist, but are so inappropriate as to be worthless. It is unable to operate efficiently without an up-to-date applicable set of bylaws. This situation necessitates immediate action. All those involved in the rewriting procedure must not lose the perspective of their vital task. The present Forwn must be commended as it has finally acknowledged the significance of this rnajar discrepancy. Their goal is notable indeed. Let each member, therefore, contribute to the reworking of the bylaws to provide the Fortliil with an accurate set of its necessary rules. Continuing to work under an obsolete system cannot be tolerated for long. The amount of time already taken to put this project underway cannot be easily dismissed. The correction of the old bylaws goes far beyond the weekly Monday meetings. Each member of a campus organization that is in need of ftu1ding or approval ()f any kind is also in need of a set of rules that can operate efficiently. Any individual member of the campus commllility, too, ha.s the right to see, question, and understand the laws that govern the student government. These are also the people who share in the need for an organized set of bylaws and must not remain in the dark as to the present procedure of the Student Forum. T'he time to act is now. Three years has been long enough for the resolution of this situation. We should not have to wait three more years. In Response After discussion with the Dean of Students, it was confirmed that. investigativ~ charges will, in fact, be brought against Psi Upsilon Fraternity for the reasons stated in the editorial. It should be noted that no accusations were made ; the intent of the editorial was to point out that the Conduct Committee will be acting in an investigative capacity to examine every aspect of the incident and to determine the guilt or innocence of all who were involved or allegedly involved. The question to be determined is the degree of participation taken by the fraternity as a whole. It is obvious that Psi Upsilon Fraternity was involved to some undetermined ex:tent in the incident; there are Psi U brothers who unfortunately have the bruises to prove that point. Whether the fraternity in toto was involved has yet to be decided. If tile fraternity is as guiltless as Mr. John contends (and we sincerely hope that is the case) then such an investigation could only help to clear the air and prove once and for all the guilt or innocence of those involved. The charge that Concordy was \careless\ and \un- professional\ in its reporting of tb e incident is something that can only be judged by our readers. Regarding the incident in question, every fact was confirmed by at least two sources; most often, however, three sources V!ere used (Security, Dean's Office, personal investigation). H(;ood /au:.~ lead to tlttl' making o.f b~tter otu•.\i; bad ones IJrinp aiJoul u·~rse. '' Jean Jacques Rousseau The Social Contra('t, 1762 J Financial Aid Rebuttal Dear Mr. Sands: Your article on the federal financial aid cuts in the February 11, 1932, issue of the CtJneordy was, for the most part, well written and aecurate. I must take exception, however, with your allegation 'that the Financial Aid Office has ~(done little to make students aware of what is going on. t' On the contrary, I believe that my staff and I have done everything possible to keep Union students infarmed. After consulting with the eo.. .Edit0r,.in..Ghief-o-f the·Cotreordy and the President ofthe Studmt Forum in September, the Office of Financial Aid issued a &-page booklet outlining the effects {If the proposed aid cuts, providing a list of important Congressi0nal representatives and their addresses, and of- fering a sample letter f.or Union students to adopt. This ap- proach was ch~>sen over a \town-meeting\ f0ormat basically because the two student leaders suggested that Union students would not attend listen? I think many have. Furthermore, the College is currently engaged in for- mulating prograll1S which, by 1933-84, eould help to ease the burden of the federal cuts on the students at Union. If an of these efforts lt~ve escaped your attenUon, I 4!an only guess that you are one of those students who, in your words,< is ,.in the dark abo-ut their future financial suppc>rtY Perhaps one of the reasons for this is that you were not at Union during the Fan term, when mest of the flurty of ac· tivity Q(!curred. While I am quite willing to aco-ept criticism, I would also suggest that you research your facts before pointing the finger in th(l future. Hopefully; through our combined efforts at Union lind at other colleges thrcughout,the land, we can lessen th'e blow of the threatening federal budget axe. Robert J. Massa, Ed.D. Dinetor ofFinaneial· Aid A Psi Upsilon ,. Brother Speaks Out tions that were apparently racist in nature.~· A simple, thorough, in· vestigation by the Con· eordiensis staff would have revealed· that only a number of individuals are ·being charged by the Conduct Committee. Furthe·rmore, a mere working knnwledge of the conduct system here at Union would have made evident1he fact that fraternities cannot· be charged by the Conduct Committee but are charged rather bytbe I.F .C. I would think the editors of the f()neordiensis would be in* formed uf such a basic fact before making such allegations. It may be brought to the Concordiensis' attention that in no way was the Psi Upsilon Fraternity inv<Jlved in the unfortunate \January 31st incident. ''~• The editors of Cnneordiensis submitted a t{)tally uninvestigated~ fi-ctitious report which has damaged. the int~grity .· uf Psi Upsilon · im· measurably. · It woUld be to the Con· cordiensis' advantage if they dealt with certain issues more carefully. The damage caused by printed words that are false is often irreversible. a group meeting in any great To the Editors: number. I relied on the Student The Brothers of Psi Upsilnn hope the editors of Con· ~rdiensis would deal with theh 1 reports more professionally. Misrepresentation and libel can only l~ad to an llllhealtily, non- academic atmosphere which should not exist between students and their voice, the Concordiensis. Forum tt> distribute the booklets Last week the Coneordiensis through residence halls and editorial staff addressed itself fraternities and on the Con- to the events and results of the · cordy to print excerpts fr001 unfortunate ''January :ust this publication. Both did an incident.\ In this editorial it excellent job-and the Con:1:ordy was erroneously stated that . should especially be com- \Psi . Upsilon is als(J being mended for running articles. on brought up on charges (by the financial aid in all but two of Conduct Committee} became David W. Johns, II President, Ps~ Upsilon their fall issues. they ane~edlywere involved\ to some undetermined extent, in Editor's Note: See Recently, the Financial Aid either verbal _or physical .ac-· '\In Re~ponse'; at left. . Office attempted.to organize a .---------------------.....-.1 large·. student turnout at the Shaeffer Senior· CitiZ¢11: Center whe\te CMgressman Sam Stratton spnke. My · · was . unanin1oU$lY sup · · by the Student Forum, thuugh my understandlng was that not one member ·Of tire Forum attended {I did nut. take attendance, however). We were successful in encouraging ab.uut fifty Uni()n students to attend the meeting and to speak out against the cuts. I was hoping f(Jr three times that number, but I was grateful for the student . supp{}rt we did receive. This past week, the Financial · Aid Office mailed an update of our September bGoklet which further describes the impending · cuts and their effects on Union students.· This publication went to about 1000 freshmen, • sophomores and juniors • receiving some sort of financial · aid. Finally, Ellen Frishberg · and I have been conducting a series of ''outreach\ finandal aid workshops in residence halls to inform students about what may happen if they fail to collectively respond now. Aside from keeping one ear on · the Washington scene and responding to the Administration on behalf of the College (which we have done since last April}, I honestly cannot think of how much more we can do. I believe that we have provided accurate and timely information w Union . . students .... the question is, h.as · · the student body bothered to €on cor Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor Managing Editor News Editor ·Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors National News Editor Copy Editor Sports Editors Photo Editors Photography Consultant Cartoonist :l)\o~Df.D IN 1 _,. ~~d~ ~~ t~· ·~ -:t. ).. ' ' •. : 1 • !~: uttn~l'!i o:_~ ll.~~ o~c 'r:~~.l L ~~ ~N&cT!<ll~ Paul Grossman , Naomi Blank Rachel!. Mandel Diane Pavacic A.J. Brodsky JU<U Lee t.:nervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards Cindy J. Tenner D.C. Owens Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Richard A. Sher David NeiblLIDI Staff Julie Abelman, Joey Beckerman, Norman Birnbach, Sue Bloomberg, Marcy Burstiner, Thomas Ching. Megan Cummings-Saxton, RobertS. Driscoll, Tim Emswiler. David Fitzgerald, Sharon Feldman, Donna Getson, P .S. Girsdansky, Leisel Golden, Mike Hunt, Deborah Levine •. Tom Megerian, Rich Mintz, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Brian Quint, Daniel Rosenfield, Eric W. Ruben, Martin Sands, E .J. Sapir, Michae 1 Sharp, Andrew Sobel, Joel Stein, Steve Van Ness, Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne Business Staff Jennifer Amler, Maryann Gagliardi, Evelyn Gurd.in Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris, III, Chris Eshelman Photo Staff Janet Guiliano, Robert Tang CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student oody of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). l 1 c ]

. ing, the OONOORDIENSIS, February 1.8, 198~ Page 7 Letters Editorials ComFJlentar_y: The Policy· of Failure Ry STEVE AUERBACH CollJ,mnist History is repeating itself and people are suffedng. The United States is sending hun- dreds of millions of dollars of military equipment to El Salvador, sending advisors into the Held, training about a thousand of their troops here; all tQ..prop up a government that cannot control its own forces nor cl'aim legitimacy among its own people. We continue to aid a Guatamalan governn:1ent bent on genocide to keep itself in power; meanwhile weh11ve shut off the last remnants of aid to Nicaragua in a fit of pique. The maddening thing about the Reagainte obsession with so- called Soviet subversion in El Salvador, or Secretary of State Alexander Hai:g calling Nicaragua \a totalitarian militarized state which is subservient to Cuban and Soviet influence (New York Times, February 9),\ is not just that the statements are inaccurate, but that they can only act as self-fulfilling prophecies. The policies now being carried . out with a vengeance in Central America have already proven to be policies of failure. In China during the 1930s-40s, in Vietnam in the 1940s-70s, and in Cuba in the 1~50s similar scenarios were played out. The United States has found itself in the historicQ.l position of backing repressive oligarchies during a period of revolt against colonialist influence and socioeconomic oppression. American support for oligarchy continues and even increases while indigenous, mitially in- dependent, socially-minded opposition movements gain in Commentary: strength. Drawn-out warfare leads to the militarization and increased repression by both sides. After the progressive forces win, the United States rejects their overtures, refuses to continue aid, and maintains hostility to the new government. The country, faced with hostility from the U.S., and in need of aid to make the necessary reforms (and to repair the destruction of war), naturally drifts towards the Soviet sphere. The simple fact is that after the death of Sun Yat~Sen and again after victory in 1948, the Chinese Com- munists made overtures to the United States: The former were rejected, primarily due to the Luce-Time magazine campaign for Chang J{ai.Shek. A Trwnan State Department White Paper that concluded accomodation was possible after 1948, was promptly forgotten after the Soviet inspired Korean war stated: What is often forgotten is that Chinese involvement was at most minimal until con- servative blundering led to MacArthur's approaching their border threatening their existence. Again, in South-East Asia we had a chance. Ho Chi Minh repeatedly sought United States support against French colonialism. He feared Soviet imperialism·. Castro did the equivalent, even as he was winning against Batista, and indeed did not join the Soviet camp until several years after he took power, and after con- tinual American hostility. In Nicaragua the scenario is being played out before our eyes. After defeating the despotic Somoza government put into power by the United States some fifty years ago, the Sandinist coalition government appealed to the United States for aid (after all, if we had been giving it to Somoza, why stop now). Carter, hesistantly to be sure, gave some aid. Con· servatives in Congress and in the business-banking com· munity rallied against this. Aid was sharply cut back, and then cut-off. The U.S. has supported Somozist elti·Ies, \terrorists\ training in Florida, Texas, and California. Naturally Nicaragua has accepted some aid (including medical and food) from Cuba, and France. The only clear result from the policy of failure has been to force the ascendency of radicals in . the original Sandinist coalition. Why, as U.S. Army Chief of Staff Omar Bradley put it, do we keep fighting the wrong war, at the wrong time, again~t the wrong enemy? The problem seems to be an intellectual-ideological blinder that has made it impossible for some to separate the Soviet Union from the self-proclaimed Marxism of individual liberation movements.· This view sees the Soviets behind every bush in the Third World. The problem is that this world view is false--social revolutionary movements arise out of local conditions, situations, and personalties. That has been accomplished by our tunnel vision is create a vicious self fulfilling prophecy. Then we sit back and smugly and say \see 1 I told you so.\ The Soviet Union is clearly a threat to our security and that of our allies. As Western Europe has realized, we must win the battle of the mind. We have allowed the Soviets to co-opt what ought to be our natural role as the promoters of freedom and independence. Third World countries, with a few exceptions, are politically unstable. Stability, and ultimate political democracy depends upon economic and social progress. Our support of military dictatarships and only- for-profit oligarchies has been counter productive to these long-term needs. It has been a failure in its stated goals of containing the Soviets. And it has led to further loss of American prestige, both in the Third World and among our allies. There is reason to believe that such a new policy would work. In Zimbabwe, the Soviet-backed guerillas, after a western in- spired settlement, have rejected the Soviets and are truly non-aligned even western leaning. Several countries notably Egypt, have kicked the Soviets out, and others would do so, given half a chance. The fact is we can make nicer allies. The underlying fact is that the Third World nations have in- dividual aspirations, separate from the U.S. and the Soviets. In fighting Soviet imperialism we must understand and be sympathetic to these aspirations. The Soviets in the long run cannot. Their model as seen in Poland and by economic disaster at home is clearly failing, but we have to offer a legitimate alternative. There was a time when the United States of America stood for freedom, independence, and justice. We can only succeed as long as we remain the good guys. When Is \Killer\ More By NORMAN BIRNBACH Staff Killers are stalking college campuses all over the country, but the police are helpless. Assassins are roaming the dorms, killing countless numbers of students, and the F.B.I. cannot stop them. \Killer\ also known under its alias \Assassin\ is a game that's at large at colleges and is very popular. The object of \Killer\ is simple: Be the last murderer alive. In Killer, you get a mission card with. a .person's name on it. Your mission is to kill that person--prefered weapons are water guns and rubber bands. The kill can't be dangerous, and there has to be a witness. After a successful murder, you receive your victim's mission card. You are allowed to kill in self-defense. If you do, you get y,our would-be murderer's card. The game continues until every killer but one has been killed. In real life, crime, they say, does not pay. As played by Fox Dorm, the last killer to be alive gets a keg of beer. So, is Killer more than a game? No, many say. It's a game, pure and simple and fun. It's an outlet for frustration and pent-up anxiety. For those who haven't yet taken Psych 10_, this is known as sublimation, which is ''the expression of ~il impulse Than a .Game? from its primitive form to one that is considered more socially or culturally acceptable.\ So that's good, isn't it? You need an outlet for frustration, after all, it's the middle of winter, and instead of being students at the University of Hawaii, we're stuck in Schenectady. After all, it's only a game. But, when a controversy as to. who shot whom first, is taken before· the Committee On Assasinations (C.O.A.), and the C.O.A. decides that it can't decide; both are still alive, and three friends of one killer, who werenot in the game, go over to the other killer's floor, threatening to beat his and his witnesses' heads in; is Killer still just a game? When I was a kid, I used to play \war\ in my grand- mother's backyard that was connected with two other backyards-cum-enemy terri- tories. If you killed someone and he didn't think he was killed, even though we were only five years old at the time, we worked things out peacefully.Ifthat happened, we had a \do-over not have someone's face done over. That's when Killer is more than a game. And that brings up an in- teresting question: Does playing Killer release .frustration or increase it? Most people would answer that playing Killer is a release. If playing Killer is an outlet for pent-up anxiety in a way that's not harmful then how do you explain the killer's friends. Saying that they're hitmen won't do; it's more than that. One explanation could be that since they weren't playing Killer, they couldn't release the stress that's welled-up inside of tbem. So the answer to that problem is that next time, those three .should play Killer. And that makes Killer more than a game, because I've never heard that playing Candyland or Monopoly was an outlet for stress. Another explanation is that Killer increased their frustration. One Killer thought he had killed another, and when he found out the other was still alive, imagine how upset he musthavebeen! That it's only a game is not quite true. It's also sublimation, which can be good. The killers aren't really killing others; but sublimation is one of Freud's defense mechanisms. According to Random House's fourth edition ·of Psychology Today, all defense mechanisms \falsify or distort reality.\ And that's where the problem-if there is one, and I think there is- · lies. We all know that killing someone is bad, but when there's a game whose sole object it is to kill as many people as possible and not get killed yourself, refllitY can be distorted. I'm not saying that those three are now going to go around actually killing people, but Killer can give people a slightly different view of what's right. And that's what makes Killer more than a game. And, there's another thing. Killing people as a game doesn't seem right when you realize how many are killed each year. In 1980, there were 1,821 mur- ders in New York City alone, according to F.B.I. statistics. Think about that: that's almost the whole school. And New York was only seventh on the list. But it's only a game--right? Apparently not, if people are threatened with bodily harm. When I was six, it was 1969; we were still fighting a war in VietNam. I knew that, just as I knew that we were the Good Guys and that we would win. I figured it had to be just like it was for Richie Bernstein, his brother Dave, Joey Evans, and me. In 1969, I still loved parades and went to every one I could, which is why I went to the Armed Forces Day Parade. It was on my way with my mom to where the parade was when I saw a soldier in a wheelchair. With a lack of shyness that amazes me, I dragged my mom with me so I could talk with a soldier in a wheelchair. In 1969, Pvt. Lawrence Alberg was eighteen years old, and would never walk again. That sum- mer. I didn't play \war.\

of in of a jel e. · te: CONOORDIENSIS, February 18, 1982 Page 7 CoiQIQ~qtary Letters Editorials Letters .,.-ft> lntra·mural Staff Annoyed. To th~ Editor: This letter is 1n response to Intramural Inefficiency, a letter which appeared in c~ncCJrdensis last c week. . Intramural Inefficiency . complaint)d. about the way the Iqtr~mural Department . is mari~ged, We feel. tba.t this complaint is unjustified. Than}ts to the hard work of Tom ~llette, and a number of students woo have dedicated much of their time and effort, the Intr~mural Depitttfuertt bas improved tremendously over tqe l.at$f two years. Teams no longer · bave to pick up equi(>- ment {)r report scores for tbetr gam~s. 'I.'bi$ is all d()ne by the in tram ural. supervisors. The only thing asked of tean1s now is to shfrw ·up for their games. Unforl~n,ately, many times, this is too much to ask. There have been numerous occasions when brQomball referees and supervisors have been ready to do their jobs at. early hours· gf the rnoruing only to find that one ().r both of the teams scheduled to play did not snow up. · If the authors of Intramurals Inefficiency viewed the situatiQn from the perspective of these referees or the in~ · tramural organizers, perhaps they would not be so quick to criticize. There are ap~ proximately fifty teams in ooth broomball and 5-man basket~ ball C{)nsisting of about 175 and 165 games respectively, to say n~thing of co-ree volleyball and numerous special events. For every S}l()rt~ ·schedules must be made (it should be n(lted that . these schedules must be coordinated around the times that tbe athletic facilities are being used for other ptn;'poses as well\ as th-ose thn¢.8 that are inco.itv.roinent ior various teams), ·reitetee.s ~ntl super~ visotm. org~. and :rest1lts tallied. Gflvio . , with sucli a larg~ .~umber . games going on, tl\ere are baund to be mix-:- ups. We feel that if intramural l)artieipants stoppe'<i com· plairting about the 'tirrespon· sible fashion\ in which the program is run and started giving a little of their (l\Vn time to the improvement of the program, th~e mix .. ups would decrease in numbe-r. · It is a shame that a ~problem s.uth ils this had to be discussed . through a weekly newspaper· and that the cotnposers of . Intramural Inefficiency bad to handle the subject in such a harsh tone~ stooping to wnat . ·amounted to be cheap shots at the Intramural Department. It· would seem much more sen~ sible to handle the situation In perS{)n. In the past, whenever a problem has been encountered in the .intramural program, Tom Collette the Intramural Director has solved it with no further disturbance. If these· complainants approached Tom With their grievance> were a little more understanding of the intramural program's situation, and tried helping out with suggested. improvements instead of criticizing its short· comings; we believe that things could. be run more smoothly and to the joint satisfaction of all involved with the program. The Effie.tent Intramurat Staff Commentar.r: The Policy of Failure By STEVE AUERBACH Columo.ist History is repeating itself and .people are s11ffering. The United States is sending hun- dreds of mil1ions of dollars of military equipment to El Salvador, sending advisors into the field, training about a thousand of their troops here; all to prop up a gevernment that cannot control its own forces nor claim legitimacy among its owN. people. We continue to aid a Guatamalan government bent on genocide to keep itself in power; meanwhile we have shut eff the last remnants of aid to Nicaragua in a fit of pique. The 1naddening thing about the Reagainte obsessien with so- called Soviet subversioFI in El Salvador, or Secretary of State Alexander Haig calling Nicaragua \a totalitarian militarized state which is subservient to Cuban and Soviet influence (New York Times, February 9) ,\ is not just that the statements are inaccurate, but that they can only act as self-fillfilling prophecies. The policies now being carried out with a vengeance in Central America have already proveR to be policies of failure. In China during the 1930s-40s, in Vietnam in the 1940s-70s, and in Cuba in the 1950s similar scenarios were played out. The United States has found itself in the historical position of backing repreSsive oligarchies during a period of revolt against colonialist influence and socioeconomic oppression. American support for oligarchy continues and even increases while indigenous, initially in- dependent, socially-minded opposition movements gain in Commentary: strength. Drawn-out warfare leads to the militarization and increased repression by both sides. After the progressive forces win, the United States rejects their overtures, refuses to continue aid, and maintains hostility to the new government. The country, faced with hostility from the U.S., and in need of aid to make the necessary reforms (and to repair tl:!e destruction of war), naturally drifts towards the Soviet sphere. The simple fact is that after the death of Sun Yat-Sen and again after victory in 1948, the Chinese Com- munists made overtures to the United States. The former were rejected, primarily due to the Luce-Time magazine campaign for Chang Kai-shek. A Trwnan State Department White Paper that concluded accomodation was possible after 1948, was promptly forgotten after the Soviet inspired Korean war stated, What is often forgotten is that Chinese involvement was at most minimal until con- servative blundering led to MacArthur's approaching their border threatening their existence. Again, in South-East Asia we had a chance. Ho Chi Minh repeatedly sought United States support against French colonialism. He feared Soviet imperialism. Castro did the equivalent, even as he was winning against Batista, and indeed did not join the Soviet camp until several years after he took power, and after con- tinual American hostility. In Nicaragua the scenario is being played out before our eyes. After defeating the despotic Somoza government put into power by the United States some fifty years ago, the Sandinist coalition government appealed to the United States for aid (after aU, if we had been giving it to Somoza, why stop now). Carter, hesistantly to be sure, gave some aid. Con- servatives in Congress and in the business-banking com- munity ra1lied against this. Aid was sharply cut back, and then cut-off. The U.S. has supported Somozist exiles, \terrorists\ training in Florida, Texas, and California. Naturally Nicaragua has accepted some aid (including medical and food) from Cuba, and France. The only clear result from the policy of faihrre has been to force the ascendency of radicals in the original Sandinis t coalition. Why, as U.S. Army Chief of Staff Omar Bradley put 1t, do we keep fighting the wrong war, at the wrong time. again~t the wrong enemy? The problem seems to be an intellectual-ideological blinder that has made it impossible for some to separate the Soviet Union from the self-proclaimed Marxism of individual liberation movements. This view sees the Soviets behind every bush in the Third World. The problem is that this world view is false--social revolutionary movements arise out of local conditions, situations, and personalties. That has been accomplished by our tunnel vision is create a vicious self fulfilling prophecy. Then we sit back and smugly and say ''see, I told you so.\ The Soviet Union is clearly a threat to our security and that of our allies. As Western Europe has realized, we must win the battle of the mind. We have allowed the Soviets to co-opt what ought to be our natural role as the promoters of freedom and independence. Third World countries, with a few exceptions, are politically unstable. Stability, and ultimate political democracy depends upon economic and social progress. Our support of military dictatorships and only- for-profit oligarchies has been counter productive to these long-term needs. It has been a failure in its stated goals of containing the Soviets. And it has led to further loss of American prestige, both in the Third World and among our allies. There is reason to believe that such a new policy would work. In Zimbabwe, the Soviet-backed guerillas, after a western in- spired settlement, have rejected the Soviets and are truly non-aligned even western leaning. Several countries notably Egypt, have kicked the Soviets out, and others would do so, given half a chance. The fact is we can make nicer allies. The underlying fact is that the Third World nations have in- dividual aspirations, separate from the U.S. and the Soviets. In fighting Soviet imperialism we must understand and be sympathetic to these aspirations. The Soviets in the long run cannot. Their model as seen in Poland and by economic disaster at home is clearly failing, but we have to offer a legitimate alternative. There was a time when the United States of America stood for freedom, independence, and justice. We can only succeed as long as we remain the good guys. When Is \Killer\ More By NORMAN BIRNBACH Staff Killers are stalking college campuses all over the country, but the police are helpless. Assassins are roaming the dorms, killing countless numbers of students, and the F.B.I. cannot stop them. \Killer\ also known under its alias \Assassin\ is a game that's at large at colleges and is very popular. The object of \Killer\ is simple: Be the last murderer alive. In Killer, you get a mission card with a person's name on it. Your mission is to kill that person--prefered weapons are water guns and rubber bands. The l~ill can't be dangerous, and there has to be a witness. After a successful murder, you receive your victim's mission card. You are allowed to kill in self-defense. If you do, you get your would-be murderer's card. The game continues until every killer but one has been killed. In real life, crime-, they say, does not pay. As played by Fox Dorm, the last killer to be alive gets a keg of beer. So, is Killer more than a game? No, many say. It's a game, pure and simple and fun. It's an outlet for frustration and pent-up anxiety. For those who haven't yet taken Psych 10, this is lmown as sublimation, which is \the expression of an impulse Than a Game? from its primitive form to one that is considered more socially or culturally acceptable.\ So that's good, isn't it? You need an outlet for frustration, after all, it's the middle of winter, and instead of being students at the University of Hawaii, we're stuck in Schenectady. After all, it's only a game. But, when a controversy as to who shot whom first, is taken before the Committee On Assasinations (C.O.A.), and the C.O.A. decides that it can't decide; botl:! are still alive, and three friends of one killer, who were not in the game, go over to the other killer's floor, threatening to beat his and his witnesses' heads in; is Killer still just a game? When I was a kid, I used to play \war\ in my grand- mother's backyard that was connected with two other backyards-cum-enemy terri- tories. If you killed someone and he didn't think he was killed, even though we were only five years old at the time, we worked things out peacefully. If that happened, we had a \do-over not have someone's face done over. That's when Killer is more than a game. And that brings up an in- teresting question: Does playing Killer release frustration or increase it? Most people would answer that playing Killer is a release. If playing Killer is an outlet for pent-up anxiety in a way that's not harmful then how do you explain the killer's friends. Saying that they're hitmen won't do; it's more than that. One explanation could be that since they weren't playing Killer, they couldn't release the stress that's welled-up inside of them. So the answer to that problem is that next time, those three should play Killer. And that makes Killer more than a game, because I've never heard that playing Candyland or Monopoly was an outlet for stress. Another explanation is that Killer increased their frustration. One Killer thought he had killed another, and when he found out the other was still alive, imagine how upset he must have been~ That it's only a game is not quite true. It's also sublimation, which can be good. The killers aren't really killing others; but sublimation is one of Freud's defense mechanisms. According to Random House's fourth edition of Psy('hology Today, all defense mechanisms .. falsify or distort reality.\ And that's where the problem--if there is one, and I think there is- -lies. We all know that killing someone is bad, but when there's a game whose sole object it is to kill as many people as possible and not get killed yourself, replity can be distorted. I'm not saying that those three are now going tu go around actually killing people, but Killer can give people a slightly different view of what's right. And that's what makes Killer more than a game. And, there's another thing. Killing people as a game doesn't seem right when you realize how many are killed each year. In 1980, there were 1,821 mur- ders in New York City alone, according to F.B.I. statistics. Think about that: that's almost the whole school. And New York was only seventh on the list. But it's only a game--right'? Apparently not, if people are threatened with bodily harm. When I was six, it was 1969; we were still fighting a war in VietNam. I knew that. just as I knew that we were the Good Guvs and that we would win. I figured it had to be just like it was for Richie Bernstein. his brother Dave, Joev Evans. and me. In 1969, I still loved parades and went to everv one I could, which is whv ( went to the Armed Forces Dav Parade. It was on my way with my nwm to where the parade was when I saw a soldier in a whC'ekhair. With a lack of shyness that amazes me, I dragged my mom with me so I could talk with a soldier in a wheelchair. In 1969. Pvt. Lawrence Alberg was eighteen years old, and would never walk again. That sum- mer, I didn't play \war.\

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, FebrtULry 18, 1981! Marxists Repeatedly Enco.unter Pre.judice Fear of Fortran (CPS)-In what could be a repeat of some of the most celebrated academic freedom cases in recent times, the University of Maryland system has rid itself of its thrid Marxist teacher in the last three years. Oilman contends he didn't get the chairmanship after being approved by the Maryland faculty because he is a Marxist. The ,professor is now appealing a .swnmer, 1981 court decision that .exonerated the university. because of his political views. He does note the UJliversity's ·recent treatment ofMarxist and radical instructors speaks for itself, and suggests, \people can draw their own con\ {CPS)-Computers may soon help simplify data analysis classes for students in much the same way that calculators have already eased the tedium of working with numbers in mathematics courses. But if you're a woman, a student with a low grade point average, or a general \t·rial· and·error problem solver,\ you probably need to overcome a basic fear of computers before you register. Those ate the findings of two assistant business professars at the University of Texas who surveyed 124 students enrolled in data analysis classes there. Of the approximately 3C students who reported a general fear of computers at ti:Je beginning of the courses, most were women or students who were unfamiliar with analytical skills. But, by allowing students to become familiar with computers by using them to solve problems from everyday life, only 12 percent of the students still reported a fear Gf computers at the end of the courses, tbe study shows. \The inexperienced person thinks of the computer as something that controls him, instead of something that he can use to help solve complicated Tray Play (CPS)-The January bliz- zards that temporarily shut dovvn scores of campuses and even delayed the beginning of the new term at others swept away something different at the University of Georgia: dining hall trays. Accorindg to some estimates, students carted off as many as 450 trays - worth an estimated $2,000 - to use as sleds when the university closed down in deference to a January 14 snowstorm. \You've got to m1derstand it only snows here about once every ten years, and when it does these students go wild,\ explains Glen Gerrett, Georgia's food service director. Gerrett wasn't sure just how many trays were still missing from the Georgia sledding festival. During it, Athens police had t() break up a crowd of some 500 students whose snowball fights were disrupting traffic through the campus. The Campus Store Presents: problems,\ reports Dr. Eleanor Jordon, who co-authored the study with fellow business in- structor Don~a Stroup. \Women are generally more fearful of computers than men are because tbey haven't taken as many analytical courses as men, and they just aren't ex~ posed to using analytical skills,\ Jordon explains. \But she adds, \women are also more honest. While some men may not disclose their fear of computers, women are more likely to admit their fears.\ The University of Maryland· Baltimore County campus (UMBC) in October decided to deny promotion and tenure to Marxist assistant ;p()lftical science professor Phillip Brenner. Brenner is now ap- pealing the decision. The Maryland system is already engaged in a legal battle with . another Marxist professor, Bertell Ollrnan, who was denied the chairmanship ()f the government departnnent at the College Park campus 'three years ago. In April, 1979, the College Park campus fired tenured physics Professor E. F. Beall. Though Maryland's Faculty Council had only recommended that Bean be disciplined for getting into a fight :with another faculty member, the ad- ministration fired Beall. The dismissal prompted charges the university wanted to get rid of the professor because of his Maoist views. UMBC' s Brenner is reluctant to openly accuse administrators of discriminating against him Drinkers Plague Colleges (CPS )-More college students are drinking alcohol than ever before, and one-third uf all students in the country are problem drinkers, a new study from the University of Florida reports. According to the study 88 percent of the 1,020 Florida students questioned now drink, the highest ever recorded ACROSS 5 Paths 1 Chapeau 6 Worthless 4 Inundation leaving 9 Heel 7 King of 12 Ventilate Bashan 13 Big 8 Lessen 14 Hasten 9 Young one 15 Scholar 10 Goal 17 Ascend 11 Soc. girl 19 Assistant 16 Eat 20 Asian sea 18 Alight 21 European 20 Appellation 23 Magnificence of Athena 27 Chemical 21 Senses compound 22 Send forth 29 Peruse 24 Self-respect 30 Pronoun 25 Proprietor 31 Worm 26 Tears 32 Man's name 28 Sign up 34 Girl's name 33 Intertwine 35 Lutecium 34 Opposed to symbol 36 Bad 36 Mild 38 Lavish fond- expletive 37 Sidled 39 Performed maintenance 42 Paddles 43 French river 44 One opposed 46 Culpability 48 Primped 51 Everyone 52 Fencing swords 54 As written: Mus. 55 Affirmative 56 Bake 57 Flap DOWN 1 Possesses 2 River island 3 Shirkers 4 Escaped among the college-age population. About a third of those student drinkers, moreover, are \problem drinkers,\ making alcohol abuse on campuses ''one of the greatest health problems in the country,\ the survey concluded. · ''The study confirms what ,has been an assumption for a long CROSS WORD PUZZLE-. FROM COLLEGE PRESS SERVICE ness on 40 Muddies 41 Ghallenges 45 Bird's home 46 Merry 47 Rubber tree 48 Edible seed 49 Greek letter 50 Pat 53 Italian river Answers on p. 10 time.,\ says Dr. Gerardo Gonzalez, .director of the Campus Alcohol Information Center at Florida and president of the nationwide BACCHUS (Boost Alcohol Consciousness · Concerning the Health of University Students~. \A significant number of college students are peoblem drinkers, and the amount is rising an the time.\ Gonzalez adds tfie study also confirmed the impression that college students as a group drink more than other sectors of the populace. About 70 percent· of the general population indulges, while nearly 90 percent of the campus population drinks alcohol, Gonzalez says. But Gonzalez quickly notes that most students are \responsible drinkers.\ \Most of the students are a ware of the risks and con- sequences of alcohol abuse, and they have a pretty high level of knowledge regarding the use of alcohol.\ In the 1950s, about 70 percent of the nation's college students drank, compared to arom1d 80 percent in the sicties and seventies. \We want to focus on how-to drink rather than whether or not to drink,\ he says. \We want the majority of drinkers, who are responsible, to lend their support and advice t() their peers who are having problems with alcohol.\ Alcohol abuse among students usually shows up when a student misses classes because of hangovers, forgets what happened the night before, skips classes, attends classes while drunk, drinks alGne, or incessantly drinks to the point of intoxication. Furthermore, nearly 80 percent of all campus van- dalism is related to alcohol drinking Gonzalez reports. elusions.\ · \The reasons they gave me for denying my tenure are simply not valid,'' he contends. \The sort of standards. that should be used simply weren't applied.\ In denying Brenner tenure, UMBC Vice Chancellor Walter Jones sajd Brenner's. work \lacked sophisticatfon.\ · The tenure decision stated Brenner's \analytical use of Marxisq;J. was terribly disap- pointing, and while the work purports to be radical in per· spective, · with or without Marxi·sm, the level of radicalism is quite com- monplace.\ In reply, Brenner points to numerous scholarly articles ·and a new book he has had published, \in addition to being nominated as teacher of the year · by the political science department, and receiving unanimous approval by students and peers during the initial five stages of the tenure and promotion process.\ . Although Brenner stops short of saying his tenure was denied because ·of his political views, Oilman, an associate political science professor at New Yor~ University, is less circumspect. ''I think what it shows is that the University of Maryland is one of the most oppressive universities in the country,\ says Oilman of the decisions against himself and Brenner. Oilman accuses the Maryland administration of \being hostile to critical thinkers on the faculty.\ In 1978 OHman was denied a chair position at the College Park campus by university president John Toll. Toll said Ollman was .unqualified although Toll has never revealed precisely what those qualifications were, OHman says. Ollman then filed suit against the university for $300,000 and says he will con· tinue to fight the case as long as he has adequate funding. The university denies it discriminated against Oilman or Brenner because of their political views, although of· ficials admit that first ap· pearances might lead some people to· suspect that politics were involved. \In the public mind I think appearances have an impact that you can't deny, and that can be troublesome and downright damaging,\ says Maryland system Vice President Robert Smith. \But I think our case has been adequately proven. Marxism has nothing to do with any of the cases.\ PEANUTS® by Charl.es M. Schulz PSST, MARCIE! THE TEACI-lER JUST CALLED YOUR NAME! MARCIE! WAKE UP! 'J

views. for con~ me are that work stated <>f disap- work per· of com- to had of the eiving by the tenure ' short denied views, York is that is cisions land hostile the a 11 said never those suit for con- as it their of· ap- some politics think that and ' says Vice \But I been OONOORDIENSJS, February 18, 1982 Page 9 ~rts & Culture ' ' ·, ~·' ' t ~ • ' ' ~ \ r ·~ ' ·, • ' ' .< • ' • • • • ' • Rossington Collins Review: This is the Way By TIM EMSWILER Staff It is humanly impossible to completely forget about Lynyrd Skynyrd when reviewing an album by the Rossington Collins Band. This is understandable, considering that four of the RCB's seven members were original members of the Skynyrd group. The band draws its name from Gary Rossington and Allen Collins, two of the South's finest lead guitarists and Skynyrd veterans. Bassist Leon Wilkeson and Billy Powell on piano and organ are also carryovers from the former premier Southern rock band. It seems that all Southern rock groups these days have to have three guitarists, so Barry Harwood was asked to join the band. Derek Hess handles the drumming chores, and a little spice was added by having an attractive young lady named Dale Krantz take care of most of the vocals.' Rossington Collins Band scored a big radio hit with the single \Don't Misunderstand Me\ from their debut album; Anytime, Anyplace, Anywhere. Their second album, This Is The Way, is now available on the MCA label. · I won't waste space making the · usual comparisons with Lynyrd Skynyrd-that's already been done too many times. The influences are there, but not the essence. Rossington Collins is not Lynyrd Skynyrd, and never will be. This is Southern rock made easy on the ears, and deserves more radio play than it gets. The album starts off with \Gotta Get It Straight\ a standard, unimpresive, up-· beat dance number. It is followed by \Tashauna\, a very mellow song whose lyrics refer indirectly to the late Ronnie Van Zant, and directly to the late John Lennon. This would be a very nice song if it weren't extremely reminiscent of \Simple Man\ a song from Lynyrd Skynyrd's first album. The· remainder of Side One is fairly weak: \Gonna Miss It When It's Gone\ is a rocker, with the usual slide guitar riffs and awful lyrics like \The grass is always green~r on the other side of the road.\ How many times have we heard that before? \Pine Box\ is an unaccompanied two-part harmony written by Barry Harwood, and features more trite lyrics about death. The last cut on Side One is \Fancy Ideas\ which is not sung by Dale Krantz, but nowhere on the album does it say whO does sing it. The guitar leads are very nice, and there is a good.deal of in.:.terchange between Rossington and Collins. Once again, there is really nothing to distinguish this song from the rest, and lyrics like \I can't live your life for you, and you can't live your life for me\ have appeared in various forms in several Skynyrd tunes. After a fairly unimpressive first side, I was very pleasantly surprised with Side Two. \Don't Stop Me Now\ is presently receiving a good deal of airplay, and deservedly so. It is stan. dard Rossington Collins, if a band can have a standard after two albums. The leads are among the best on the album, and the lyrics ... well, they're no worse than any of the other songs. ''Seems Like Every Day\ is one .of the best songs on the albwn, with an excellent dual slide guitar background. If it weren't for the female vocals, this tune could have easily been recorded during Skynyrd' s prime. 1 'I'm Free Today\ is my personal favorite from the album, and the music is provided QY two ~acoustic guitars, one on rhythm and the other on slide. The unidentified male singer handles the vocals on this one, and the lyrics are far superior to any others on the album. It is much too short at just over three minutes, but it's the most enjoyable three minutes that I've heard in quite some time. The last two cuts, \Next Phone Call\ and \Means Nothing To You\ are both hot rockers with good vocals and exceptional guitar work. These last three numbers, with their slide guitars and organ, .are somewhat similar to the music of the Allman Brothers, which is certainly a high recom· · mendation for any Southern rock fan. The last song is the only. one that devotes enough time to the guitar break to Poet Liam Rector will give a talk and read from his work at Union College on Thursday, February 25th. ' Mr. Rector has completed a collection-of poems, THE SORROW OF ARCHITECTURE. His work has appeared 'in many literary jour- nals, including \American Poetry Review,'' \Kayak \·New Letters/' \Partisan Review/' \Poetry Northwest,\ and \Shenandoah.\ He will speak at 3:30 p.m. in H U 116 and will read at 8 p.m. in the Humanities Lounge on the second floor of the Humanities Center. · This is the fourth in a series of readings by contemporary authors sponsored by the English Department and the Idol literary magazine. JAMES McGUINESS & ASSOCIATES INC. Consultants 530 Franklin St., Schenectady, NY 12305,51.8 393-3635 Attention All Programm.ers Earn $Money$ & Gain Real-World Experience As a Part-Tjme Programmer Located only 3 Blocks from Union Campus Contact Debbie or Tina at 393~3635 - TODAY! veally :let yoa enjoy it. It's hard t() believe that Slde One and Side Two are actually on the same album. None of the music dev.iates very much from tlte standard formula, but the songs on Side Two only use the formula as a guideline, rather than a strict rule. And the farther they get from the rules, the better Rossington Collins Band seems to get. That is the way. Jorma Kaukonen of Jefferson Airplane and Hot Tuna fame will play in the Chapel on March 8th. Union Lands Jorma ByBOBFOX Arts Editor In 1965 most of us were in our pre-nursery school stage. Jorma Kaukonen began his professional career that same year. Seventeen years and twenty four albums later, Jorma is on tour and is scheduled t() play in Union College's famed rock and roll .arena, the Memorial Chapel. Monday, March 8, the Concert Committee will present Jorma Kaukonen with Rick Danko as a warm-up act. Tickets are four dollars and went on sale 1'uesday, February 16. Kaukonen' s · career began with the band Jefferson Air· plane, a · name vaguely associated with a stark electric sound, acid, mushrooms, and some very good music. Kaukonen ·played with the Airplane until the band dissolved in 1972. Notables among Jefferson Airplane albums are Smrealistic Pillow, Volunteers, :Bark and Early Flight. J orma was a vital part of the Airplane. Along with bassist Jack Cassidy, he provided much of the creative inspiration that led the Air- plane's music through its changes. In 1969, Kaukonen and Cassidy formed another band. Weiss to Discuss Camp David ByJ()ELSTEIN Today, Ral>bi Avraham Weiss will give two free lectures that Union'_s_, J.S.O. Hillel is spon· soring. The first one, which is going to be about Jewish . Intermarriage, will be held at 4:00p.m. in Conference Rooxn._A in Carnegie. The second one will be held in Carnegie's fourth ftoor lounge at 8:00 p.m. Rabbi Weiss will discuss the Camp David Accords after Sadat. Rabbi Weiss, who has been an Assistant Pr()fessor of Judaic Studies at Stern College and Yeshiva University both in New Y'ork, is tile Rabbi of the Hebrew Institute of Riverdale, which has grown under his leadership to include over 400 families. Rabbi Weiss has been featured in part of an Israeli television special on American Jews. A ~oted figure in the Soviet Jewry movement, Rabbi 'Weiss serves on the Governing Soard of the Center for Russian Jewry and is a Past Vice- Chairman of the Greater New York Conference on Soviet\_ J ,.. ewry. · The lectures are free and are sme to be interesting. All are _ welcQme. Hot Tuna. Hot Tuna remained together until 1978, with Kaukonen contributing to both bands much of the time. The band released nine albums in its nine years. and Kaukonen's audience grew considerably through his involvement with it. Late 1974 saw the release of Jorma Kaukonen's first solo album, Quah. This album proved what many Jorma groupies had known for years, that Kaukonen is an extremely talented guitarist whose abilities span a number of different styles, both electric and acoustic. He had established himself solidly in the free-verse electric fashion of the Airplane and Hot Tuna already. Quah was an acoustic revelation that epitomized much of what Kaukonen had been experimenting with for many years. The five years between Quah and Kauk.onen's second solo album, Jorma, were filled by five more Hot Tuna albums, including the successful D~Juble Dose, and by one more Jef- ferson Airplane release, Fligll.t Log. Jorma is more of Kaukonen's acoustic wizardry. The new band is billed as Jorrna Kaukonen and the Vital Parts. It features Johnny and Hilary Stench on drums and bass, respectively, both for- merly of Pearl Harbor and the Explosions. Their only album, Barbeque King, is all electric, and contains a version of the 1956 Mickey and Sylvia hit, Love Is Strange.. In concert however, they play many Airplane and Hot Tuna favorites. Recently, Jorma has been playing the majority of his show acoustically. Ifhe does so at Union, we're in for quite a treat. If he doesn't, you can always walk out. At four bucks a ticket, it's worth the risk. Schenectady Museum-Union College Chamber Music Series presents Dutch Baroque Cellist, Anner Bylsrna Friday, Feb. 19 and Saturday, Feb. 20 8:00p.m. in Memorial Chapel FREE W'ITH UNI0N COLLEGE STUDENT I D Tickets available from Dr. Maranville Second Floor, Silliman Hall please call x6096 This week at ----J.B. SCOTT'S--- Thursday, Feb. 18 Classy Trash Friday, Feb. 19 There Are Strangers -------And Coming Soon------- Dixie Dregs Buddy Rich Go9d Rats Arlo Guthrie Ken Hensly

Page 10 G f? j,., o - .-1 r:,c; \~< . =- .. . . .. ) '-.'. \-.~.ioo~'\''·\' · ,General Nottices R.A. applications available in the Residence Life Office. Due February 26. If you are planning a Spring 'Term Abroad and would like to be an R.A. next year, make aU arrangements at the Residence Life Office now! If you know of someone on a Winter Term Abroad who has expressed an interest in being an R.A., pick up an application for him-her at the Residence Life Office. Reminder to all those in- terested in any of the fall terms abroad: The deadline for ap- plications to the York-Union Exchange, including the sub- mitted essay will be Friday, February 19. If you have any questions about this new program, please contact the ~erms Abroad office. All applications for the other fall terms abroad are also due on Friday, February 19. The fall terms take place in Italy, France and England. Late applications will be considered only after all the others have been processed, so please get your applications into the Terms Abroad office on time. A representative from the Beaver College Cente'r for Education Abroad will be on campus Wednesday, February 24. Anyone interested in meeting with the -representative to discuss the programs, in- cluding the London School of Economics semester should arrange an interview at the Terms Abroad office before that date. There will be a French table every week at the Pub. If you are interested in speaking French and enjoying a French ambiance, please join your friends at 12: 30 p.m. on Tuesdays. There will be an organizational meeting for all students interested in Sociology 61, Internships in the Delivery of Social Services, on Feb. 24 4:30p.m. in the Faculty Lo1.p1ge, 2nd Floor, Social Sciences- Building. Internships available this spring may include WMHT, United Way, Big Brothers, Big Sisters, CHP, and other local agencies. Cards for this course will be given only to those who attend this meeting. FOR SALE 3 cubic foot college~type refrigerator. \Juliette\ make, excellent condition, barely used. Asking $70. Call 327-8332. Puzzle Answer CONOORDIENSIS# Feb1'1Ulry _18~ .1982 e . Ices INTERNATI-ONAL JOBS International Ca.reers Forum: Where the Jobs Are and How to Get Them--Thursday,, February 18, 7~9 p.m. SUNY at Albany Campus Center, Assembly Room, free and open to the public. The program will feature Dr. Eric Kocher (author of IN- TERNATIONAL:. JOBS: WHERE THEY ~RE AND HOW TO GET THEM), who wi II give a general overview of the range of possibi.lities for international jobs. A panel presentation on specific oppo.rtunities and recommended academic preparati.Qn will follow. For more information call SUNY International Programs Office, 457-8678. STATE ASSEMBLY SUMMER INTERNSHIPS The Assembly Summer Intern Program provides an op- portunity for students to work on research and program development projects supervised by the Assembly professional · research staff. College students who will have completed their junior year by June 1982 may apply. The Summer Intern Program is very competitive with only 10- 20 posit~ons available each year. Applicants should have superior academic records, strong research and analytic skills, and a definite interest in public policy development and the functions of the legislature. Applications are available in the Career Center. Application deadline: April 1, 1982. FIELD ENGINEERING CAREER OBSERVATION.DAY Students interested in spending a \day-on-the-job\ in field engineering (highway construction) should contact Pat Matteo in the Career Center no later than February 25. SHOWS AT 9:00 & 11:00 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18 1st Act: JOEL BECKERMA:N 2nd Act: THE FISHHEADS M.C.: Steve Monosson ' TICKETS ON ·SALE IN CARNEGIE ~ ... . \\'.., ' ~ . \\ - ' ~ (I .. ~,... ._.:;.0 (J .. \' \'~·\\ Q • On fbe Otllerfroqt Men's Sex Role Awareness Group On Wednesday, February 24 at 7 :30 P.M. in the Women's Network room (3rd floor of Carnegie Hall) there will be an organizational meeting for students interested in getting involved in a Men's Sex Role Awareness Group. All male students are invited to attend. Hillel Rabbi Weiss will present two lectures Thursday, February 18, 1982. The first, at 4 p.m. will be in Conference Room A, Carnegie on Sex and th~ Jewish family and Intermarriage later. At 8 p.m. he will speak in Carnegie Fourth Floor Lo1lnge on Camp David after Sadat. The entire college community is invited. Debating Club? To those interested in debating and-or public speaking: lf you would like to participate in a club of this nature, please contact Peggy at Box 614; include name, box number, . and any pertinent ideas. A general meeting will be called next week. 011 .T~e Greek froqt Delta em Delta Chi Molson Party. This Saturday Night after the hockey game-3 Molsons for $1.00 Tri-Delta Cabaret The sisters of Delta Delta Delta will be performing in an all-Tri~Delta Cabaret, 'l'uesday evening, February 23. The profits from this Cabaret .will go to the Children's Cancer Fund. Committee Union College Film Committee Presents: Feb. 19,20, 2l at 7, 9 & 11:00 BEING THERE with Peter Sellers, Shirley Maclaine, . Jack Warden, Melvyn. Douglas Tues., Feb. 23 at 7: 30 & 1 o: oo

Page 10 oi-:r''~~~~~~~ ,(. r • 4 • ..__ ' \ (, 0 ( ( ~ l\o(- D '\' . . \.. ·. Genera·l Nottices R.A. applications available in the Residence Life Office. Due February 26. If you are planning a Spring Term Abroad and would like to be an R.A. next year, make all arrangements at the Residence Life Office now! If you kr:tow of someone on a Winter Term Abroad who has expressed an interest in being an R.A., pick up an application for him-her at the Residence Life Office. Reminder to all those in- terested in any of the fall terms abroad: The deadline for ap- plications to the York-Union Exchange, including the sub- mitted essay will be Friday, February 19. If you have any questions about this new program, please contact the Terms Abroad office. All applications for the other fall terms abroad are also due on Friday, February 19. The fall terms take place in Italy, France and England. Late applications will be considered only after all the others have been processed, so please get your applications into the Terms Abroad office on time. A representative from the Beaver College Cente'r for Education Abroad will be on campus Wednesday, February 24. Anyone interested in meeting with the representative to discuss the programs, in- cluding the London School of Economics semester should arrange an interview at the Terms Abroad office before that date. There will be a French table every week at the Pub. If you are interested in speaking French and enjoying a French ambiance, please join your friends at 12:30 p.m. on Tuesdays. There will be an organizational meeting for all students interested in Sociology 61, Internships in the Delivery of Social Services, on Feb. 24 4:30p.m. in the Faculty Lo.unge, 2nd Floor, Social Sciences- Building. Internships available this spring may include WMHT, United Way, Big Brothers, Big Sisters, CHP, and other local agencies. Cards for this course will be given only to those who attend this meeting. FOR SALE 3 cubic foot college-type refrigerator. \Juliette\ make, excellent condition, barely used. Asking $70. Call 327-8332. Puzzle Answer CONOORDIENSIS, February 18, .1982 co11gratU1ations _:·:sro~!D&IJ!\ ··· · studs-you·- ate ''terrifiel !' ·'Witlf ·1 o v e'*~ ·your ·· d·ifv o\t'~ 0 tt•• Cbterlead$rs: , · ·· ... ,_.·_,,,,., RAT'-l'know tlUif ybu teaUy ·· get excited ab6tif gohi~~ t::F; · Even ., s<t; you;;ve got t<J un .. derstand fish are stm asleep at 4:55 a.m. G.R.K! T.-Happy Birtbday!· Have a great weekend; KGCORP. · Mr. R.-In the real world people do go ice fishing. · e Ices i' ·' . .,. -· . ' ,. ,,.:).- ··= ,;, ···- .. fJAg:-ro,{lg %iug1~Qn#t rJuinlql .Qr . tl'!f: .. , x~. , ... ! What does \Crao JJellan mean? Jill for your Inforijl;;Jtioo: Passive Dependent· Per- Dear Secret Friend: Thanks sonalities-Found in dry arid for tbe goodies- INTERNATIONAL JOBS International Careers Forum: Where the Jobs Are and How to Get Them--Thursday, February 18, 7-9 p.m. SUNY at Albany Campus Center, Assembly Room, free and open to the public. The program will feature Dr. Eric Kocher (author of IN- TERNATIONALJOBS: WHERE THEY ~RE AND HOW TO GET THEM), who wi II give a general overview of the range of possibilities for international jobs. A panel presentation on specific opportunities and recommended academic preparation will follow. For more information call SUNY International Programs Office, 457-8678. STATE ASSEMBLY SUMMER INTERNSHIPS The Assembly Summer Intern Program provides an op- portunity for students to work on research and program development projects supervised by the Assembly professional research staff. College students who will have completed their junior year by June 1982 may apply. The Summer Intern Program is very competitive with only 10- 20 posit.ions available each year. Applicants should have superior academic records, strong research and analytic skills, and a definite interest in public policy development and the functions of the legislature. Applications are available in the Career Center. Application deadline: April l, 1982. FIELD ENGINEERING CAREER OBSERVATION DAY Students interested in spending a \day-on-the-job\ in field engineering (highway construction) should contact Pat Matteo in the Career Center no later than February 25. SHOWS AT 9:00 & 11:00 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18 1st Act: JOEL BECKERMAN 2nd Act: THE FISHHEADS M.C.: Steve Monosson TICKETS ON· SALE IN CARNEGIE On Tbe Otb·erfrcrqt Men's Sex Role Awareness Group On Wednesday, February 24 at 7:30 P.M. in the Women's Network room (3rd floor of Carnegie HaU) there will be an organizati.onal meeting for students interested in getting involved in a Men's Sex Role Awareness Group. All male students are invited to attend. Hillel Rabbi Weiss will present two lectures Thursday, February 18, 1982. The first, at 4 p.m. will be in Conference Room A, Carn~gie on Sex and the Jewish family and Intermarriage later. At 8 p.m. he will speak in Carnegie Fourth Floor Lounge on Camp David after Sadat. The entire college community is invited. Debating Club? To those interested in debating and-or public speaking: If you would like to participate in a club of this nature, please contact Peggy at Box 614; include name, box number, and any pertinent ideas. A general meeting will be called next week. OQ Tlpe Greek fro11t Delta Chi Delta Chi Molson Party. This Saturday Night after the hockey game-3 Molsons for $1.00 Tri-Delta Cabaret The sisters of Delta Delta Delta will be performing in an all-Tri-Delta Cabaret, Tuesday evening, February 23. The profits from this Cabaret will go to the Children's Cancer Fund. College Film Committee Union College Film Committee Presents: BEING THERE with Peter Sellers, Shirley MacLaine, Feb.l9,20,2lat7,9&11:00 . Jack Warden, Melvyn Douglas Tues., Feb. 23 at 7: 30 & 10: oo c c .c c c

24 of be an for Role male two will A, later. in The ty is in to this at box inent be This Delta in an The go OONOORDIEN8IS, February 18, 198! Page H ort f Athlete of the Week ~ 0 +- :By MIKE SHARP Sports Staff Athlete of the Week honors will be share& this week by junior Joe Clinton of the basketball team and junior Dan O'Neill of tne Skating Dut- chmen. Clinton, a guard, earned his honors with a record breaking performance and O'Neill, a forward, earned his honors with several outstanding 0 .c a. 0 Joe Clinton offensive performances. Going into last Tuesday's game against Potsdam State, Dan had tallied four goals in three games. Durmg ftiis out- standing week, he scored one goal in Union's 8-3 loss to Williams, he scored another .goal ;in Union's 3~1 loss to Merrimack, and he topped off the week with two goals and two assists in the Dutchmen's 8-2' victory over Westfield State. Dan O'Neill Dan now has a season total of eight goals and five assists. D~ is 5'8\ tall and weighs 155 lbs. He is from Pembroke, Ontario, and his major is Electrical Engineering. Last week, Joe Clinton established a new aU-time Union College basketball record for career assists with a total of 343. This Wednesday night, Joe shattered another record, when he handed out 15 assists in a single game, during the 78-58 loss to Division II Hartwick. Clinton is in his third season as a varsity starter, and is a tri- -captain of this year's team. As a freshman, he handed out 102 assists and scored 256 points, as a sophomore he had 133 assists and 318 points, and this year, in 20 games, he has 108 assists and has scored 277 points. Joe is currently Union's leading - scorer with a 13.8 average. Joe is an English major from Pearl River, NY. Cengratulations to Joe and Dan, and the best of luck to the Skating Dutchmen and the basketball team for the remainder of the season. Track Third ByDD Sports Staff Last Saturday, February 13, the Union College Varsity Track team hosted a six team meet at Memorial Fieldllouse~ Albany State tallied the highest total in the meet with 204 points, RPI was a distant second with 1071,2 points and the Dutchmen were third with 76 points. Siena finished fourth in the meet with 72¥.! points, HVCC was next with 25 points and Marist only managed 11 points. Only two Dutchmen were able to capture first place honors in the meet, Sophomore Lynwood Wade notched a first place in the shot put with a toss of 48 feet 9 inches and freshman Jeff Mickel pulled off an upset win in the 500 meter run (1:08.7), Mickel's performance qualified him for the New York State Meet. Lynwood Wade added a second place firiish in the 35-lb . weight ( 41 '5\) while middle- distance runners Dave Dellehunt and \Sid\ Contois recorded seconds in the 1000 meter run (2:35.7) and 800 meter run (2:00.8), respec- tively. Also, Gary Wenner tied for second in the pole vault with a jump of 12 feet 6 inches. Other scorers for Union were! Co-captain Brad Kline was third in the 3~-lb. weight ( 40'9\ ), Bob Stelma~k captured fourth in the 400 meter run (54.2), Denny Contois picked up a fourth in the 1500 rneter run (4:05.6), and Mark Dunn placed sixth in the shot put ( 42'). In addition, Union's two-mile relay {Botta, Dellehunt, Mickel, Cutter) was third with a time of 8:32.8 and the Dutcllrnen one-mile relay !Stelmack, Holman, Bennett, Wenner) was fourth across the line with a time of 3:44.5. Next week the men's team travels to Princeton to compete in the MAC Sr. Mets while the women's team hosts the First Annual Union Invitational Meet for Women in the Memorial Fieldhouse. A special note for all those individuals interested in outdoor track: there will be an organizational meeting for the spring season this Thur~ sday, February 18 at 7:30 in Social Science 117. Women'sHoop7-7 Intramural Standings: Men 1 s son 5 Basketball Standings By KATHY BENTLEY Sports Staff W l WHITE DIVISION 5 1 ZBT B 4 0 Hoopsters Women's basketball brought its record to 7-7-last week with wins over Russell Sage and New Paltz, and a loss to Hamilton. halftime, but finally lost 54-82. Carol Wrenn managed to sink 16 points to give her a 16 point average for this week. Cay Lynch got 13 points, while Julie Miller and Sherri Kudrewicz had 12 and 6 rebounds, respectively. A LEAGUE Sigma Chi Gold PSK Red Beavers - 4 1 3rd Fl. Fox South 4 3 4 2 2 1 1 1 0 0 0 1 2 2 2 2 3 5 Union soundly defeated Sage 70-60 last Wednesday. Cay Lynch was our high scorer with 20 points, while Julie Miller and · Carol Wrenn followed up with 15 each. Brenda Hugick pulled down 11 rebounds and Julie had 8. Both Brenda and Julie had three steals. Union had a strong start against New Paltz and pulled ahead by 16 points at halftime. The team went on to a fairly easy win at 6~a57. Julie scored 22 points, grabbed 11 rebounds and had four steals in a- well-played game. Carol Wrenn had 18 points and Cay Lynch, 14. Brenda Hugick displayed her well-rounded playing ability with 10 rebounds, five points and an amazing six steals. Monday's game against Hamilton unfortunately ended in a rather solid defeat. Hamilton is a strong team with excellent shooting and passing as well as speed and height. Union was · able to hold Hamilton to an 11 point lead at This year's squad includes some talented individuals. So far this season, sophomore Julie Miller is averaging 16 points and 11.5 rebounds per game. Cay Lynch, also a sophomore, has a 17.5 point .average. Coach Barta is pleased with her players and the type of game the team is playing this season. The tearg. doesn't quit, as shown by some astounding second half recover:ies and overtime play .. So far this year only two games, against Hart- wick .(now with an 18..() record) and Hamilton (12a5), were lost by more than seven points. The women's basketball season comes to a close this weekend in the Capital District Tournament at RPI. In Friday's play, Union will play its local rival, Albany State. Then, in the finals on Saturday, Union hopes to face either St. Rose or RPI. Corne support Union's women's hoop! Support Union Sports . Theta De.lta Chi Chi Psi Runn in' Rebels Fiji A. DU Sigma Phi B.L.A.S. RED DIVISION Gunners Chi Psi Delta Chi B , phi Sig White Sigma Chi W. B Swish ZBTB LEAGUE A TheOocs Phi Sig Red DG-TDX Thumpers Beavers Philosophy 2nd Floor Fox The O'Cedars Jetsons Brews Bombers J's Gravy Girls Pig Prowlers Davidson 3rd Fl. Jewish Students Organization .HILLEL Come down space is limited so act now will have a Sabbath Dinner and enioy Good Food, in the West College Dining Friday Wight, Feb. 19 $2 for members, $3.50, non-members For- reservations ca II Darrell Seife, 370-4061 at 8 p.m. Hall Nice Atmosphere· and a Guest Speaker \\ 4 1 Interns 3 1 Delta Phi 2 2 JoeMamas 1 4 Delta U Dogs 1 8 SC Dirt B 0 4 Chi Psi Z 0 6 0 1 1 2 4 4 4 BLUE DIVISION Warriors Foxers Yobblenorfs DU Bombers SC BlueB Fiji B Psi Upsilon SC Commandoes 5 3 3 3 2 L 0 0 ·co-REC VOLLEYBALL w l LEAGUE B 3 1 3rd F I. Fox South 4 0 2 1 Last Time Around 2 0 2 1 700 Wendell 2 1 1 1 Nads 2 1 1 2 . Phi Sig Beer 0 2 1 2 2nd Fl. Fire Doors 0 3 1 3 4th Fl. West 0 3 WOMEN 1 S BROOMBALL w 3 3 2 1 2 2 L T 0 0 Jrd Fl. West 1 2 0 0 0 Deltoids 0 0 2 0 0 Jrd Fl. Richmond 0 1 4 0 2 Penthouse 0 2 1 1 0 2nd Fl. Davidson 0 3 2 1 0 Delta Gamma 0 3 0 SPORTS HAPPENINGS Feb. 18-25 Varsity Hockey JV Hockey Varsity B·Ball JV B-Ball Women's B-Ba II N.Adams Feb. 18 New Haven Feb. 20 Salem Feb. 23 Berkshire Feb. 18 South Kent Feb. 20 at St. Lawrence Feb. 20 NorthAdams Feb. 22 .at RPI Feb. 24 HVCC Feb. 22 at RPI Feb. 24 Capital District Tourn. at RPI Feb. 19-20

24 of bean for Role male two will A, in The is in to this box: ill be This in an The go OONOORDIENSIS~ .February 18, 198fJ Page H. ' . . . . ~ . . : . . • I : ~ I ' >I -. • 0 0 By MIKE SHARP Sports Staff Athlete of the Week honors will be shared this week by junior Joe Clinton of the basketball team and junior Dan O'Neill of the Skating Dut- chmen. Clinton, a guard, earned his honors with a recerd breaking performance and O'Neill, a forward, earned his honors with several (i)Utstanding .c a ci - V1 Joe Clinton offensive performances. Going into last Tuesday's game against Potsdam State, Dan had tallied four goals in three games. Duriilg tliis out- standing week, he scored one goal in Union's 8'-.3 less te Williams, he scored another goal in Union's 3-1 loss to Merri.Inack, and he topped off the week witb. two goals and twa assists in the Dutchmen's 8-2 victory over Westfield State. ~ Dan O'Neill Dan now has a seasen total of eight goals and five assists. Dan is 5 '8\ tall and weighs 155 lbs. He is from Pembroke, Ontario, and bls major is Electrical Engineering. Last week, J~oe Clinton established a l!'ew all-time Union College basketball record for career assists with a total of 343. This Wednesday night, Joe shattered another record, when he handed out 15 assists in a single game, during the 78-58 loss to Division II Hartwick. Clinton is in his third season as a varsity start€r, and is a tri- captain of this year's team. As a freshman, he handed out 102 assists and scored 256 points, as a sophomore he l'lad 133 assists and 318 points, and this year, in 20 games, he has 108 assists and has scored 277 points. Joe is currently Union's leading scorer with a 13.8 average. Joe is an English major from Pearl River, NY . Congratulations to Joe and Dan, and the best of luck to the Skating Dutchmen and the basketball team for the remainder of the season. . ' ' . : . ,' - ' , ' ,• ' - '• .. ' . '· ... · . • ' ••• ' ., • • ' • • •• l ' ' •• • ' • ' \.. ,.' -. • • • • Track Third ByDD Sports Staff Last Saturday, February 13, the Union College Varsity Track team hosted a six: team meet at Memorial Fieldhouse. Albany State tallied the highest total in the meet with. 204 points, RPI was a distant second with 1071.,2 points and the Dutchmen were third with 76 points. Siena finished fourth in the meet with 72lh points, HVCC was next with 25 points and Marist only managed 11 points. Only two Dutchmen were able to capture first place honors in the meet. Sophomore Lynwood Wade notched a first place in the shot put with a toss of 48 feet 9 inches and freshman Jeff Mickel pulled off an upset win in the 500 meter run (1:08.7). Mickel's performance qualified him for the New York State Meet. Lynwood Wade added a second place finish in the 35-lb. weight (41'5\) while middle- distance runners Dave Dellehunt and \Sid\ Contois recorded seconds in the 1000 meter run (2:35.7) and 800 meter run (2:00.8), respec- tively. Also, Gary Wenner tied fer second in the pole vault with a jump of 12 feet 6 inches. Other scorers for Union were: Co-captain Brad Kline was third in the 35-lb. weight ( 40'9\) Bob Stelmack captured fourth in the 400 meter run (54.2), Denny Contois picked up a fourth in the 1500 meter run (4:05.6), and Mark Dunn placed sixth in the shot put ( 42'). In addition, Union's two-mile relay (Botta, Dellehunt, Mickel, Cutter) was third with a time of 8:32.8 and the Dutchmen one-mile relay !Stelmack, Holman, Bennett, Wenner) was fourth across the line with a time of 3:44.5. Next week the men's team travels to Princeton to cempete in the MAC Sr. Mets while the women's team hosts the First Annual Union Invitational Meet for Women in the Memorial Fieldhouse. A special note for all those individuals interested ia outdoor track: there will be an organizational meeting for the spring season this Thur- sday, February 18 at 7:30 in Social Science 117. W onten's Hoop 7-7 Intramural Standings: Men's 5 on S Basketball Standings By KATHY BENTLEY Sports Staff Women's basketball brought its record to 7-7 last week with wins over Russell Sage and New Paltz, and a loss to Hamilton. Union soundly defeated Sage 70-60 last Wednesday. Cay Lynch was our high scorer with 20 points, while Julie Miller and Carol Wrenn followed up with 15 each. Brenda Hugick pulled down 11 rebounds and Julie had 8. Both Brenda and Julie had three steals. Union had a strong start against New Paltz and pulled ahead by 16 points at halftime. The team went on to a fairly easy win at 66-57. Julie scored 22 points, grabbed 11 rebotmds and had four steals in a· well-played game. Carol Wrenn had 18 points and Cay Lynch, 14. Brenda Hugick displayed her well-rounded playing ability with 10 rebounds, five points and an amazing six steals. Monday's game against Hamilton unfortunately ended in a rather solid defeat. Hamilton is a strong team with excellent shooting and passing as well as speed and height. Union was able to hold Hamilton to an 11 point lead at halftime, but finally lost 54-82. Carol Wrenn managed to .sink 16 points to give her a 16 p()int average for this week. Cay Lynch got 13 points, while Julie Miller and Sherri Kudrewicz had 12 ana 6 rebounds, respectively. This year,s squad includes some talented individuals. So far this season, sophomore Julie Miller is averaging 16 points and 11.5 rebounds per game. Cay Lynch, also a sophom()re, has a 17.5 point average. Coach Barta is pleased with her players and the type of game the te<IIIl is playing this season. The team doesn't quit, as shown by some astounding second half recovel:ies and overtime play. So far this year only two ga:rnes, against Hart- wick (now with an 18-0 record) and Hamilton (12-5), were lost by more than seven points. The women's basketball season comes to a close this weekend in the Capital District Tournament at RPI. In Friday's play, Union will play its local rival, All>any State. Then, in the finals (}n Saturday, Union hopes to face either St. Rose or RPI. Come supp()rt Union's women's ho()p! Support Union Sports A LEAGUE Sigma Chi Gold PSK Red Beavers Theta Dena Chi Chi Psi Runnin' Rebels Fiji A DU ~igma Phi B.l.A.S. RED DIVISION Gunners Chi Psi Delta Chi B phi Sig White Sigma Chi W. B Swish ZBT B LEAGUE A TheOocs Phi Sig Red DG-TDX Thumpers Beavers Philosophy 2nd Floor Fox The 0' Cedars Jetsons . Brews Bombers J's Gravy Girls Pig Prowlers Davidson 3rd Fl. Jewish Students Organization HILLEL Come down ancl enioy Good Food, space is limited so act now will have a Sabbath Dinner in the West College Dining Nice Atmo.sphere and a Guest Speaker Hall $2 for members, $3.50, non-members For· reservations call Darre.ll Seife, 370-4061 Friday Nigllt, Feb. 19 at 8 p.m. > w l 5 l 4 0 4 l 4 l 3 l 2 2 1 4 1 8 0 4 0 6 5 0 5 1 3 1 4 2 1 4 0 4 0 4 WHITE DIVISION ZBT B Hoopsters 3rd Fl. Fox South Interns Delta Phi Joe Mamas Delta U Dogs SC Dirt B Chi Psi Z BLUE DIVISION Warriors Foxers Yobblenorfs DU Bombers SC Blue B Fiji B Psi Upsilon SC Commandoes ' 4 3 4 2 2 1 1 1 0 5 3 3 3 2 1 0 0 CO-REC VOLLEYBALL w L LEAGUE B 3 1 3rd Fl. Fox South 4 0 2 1 last Time Around 2 0 2 1 700Wendell 2 1 1 1 Nads 2 1 1 2 Phi Sig Beer 0 2 1 2 2nd Fl. Fire Doors 0 3 1 3 4th Fl. West 0 3 WOMEN'S BROOMBALL w 3 3 2 1 2 2 L T 0 0 3rd Fl. West 1 2 0 0 0 Deltoids 0 0 2 0 0 3rd Fl. Richmond 0 1 4 0 2 Penthouse 0 2 l 1 0 2nd Fl. Davidson 0 3 2 1 0 Delta Gamma 0 3 0 SPORTS HAPPENINGS Feb. 18-25 Varsity Hockey JV Hockey Varsity B-Ball JV B-Ball Women's B- Ball N. Adams Feb. 18 New Haven Feb. 20 Salem Feb. 23 Berkshire Feb. 18 South Kent Feb. 20 at St. Lawrence Feb. 20 North Adams Feb. 22 .at RPI Feb. 24 HVCC Feb. 22 at RPI Feb. 24 Capital District Tourn. at RPI Feb. 19-20

Page 12 OONCORDIBNSIS, February 18, 1.98! ~ ' ' \ . . ' ' ' ,. ' . . ' : . - ' ~ . ·, '. ' ... ' HOCHEY Faces No. Adams Tonite By D.S. HURLEY Sports Editor The Union College Skating Dutchmen find themselves in a difficult position after losing two out of three games this past week. The Dutchmen cannot lose any of their remaining games, including last Tuesday's game at Potsdam. Even if the Dutchmen win the remainder of their games, they are not assured of a playoff spot. Union, who is battling Williams for the final fourth spot in the ECAC Div. II West standings, must beat North Adams tonight, and then win their next two games. If this doesn't happen, then Union's playoff chances will be slim to none. Union can also hope for Babson to beat Williams this Tuesday in Wellesley. was split into two separate leagues this year, the Western Region and the New York State College Hockey Association (NYSCHA). The top four teams in each league qualify for .the playoffs. The Western Region used to be one league consisting of sixteen teams with the top eight. records making the playoffs. Under thiS format, Union wauld make the playoffs this year because they would be in eighth place ahead of Pot- sdam, who is currently holding onto fourth place in the NYSCHA division. The Eastern Region continues the format of one league with the top eight teams making the playoffs. Union beats Westfield Charlie Hauser (2 goals) and Brian Shea who returned to the game after receiving stitches in his head to score Union's eighth goal. Other scorers for Union were Gil Egan, Don Beall, and Joe Picano. The WRUC stars of the - ,game, picked -by Marc Pifko, Scott Wykoff and Andy Sobel were (1) Dan O'Neil, (2) T.J. Ryan-Bad Brooks, (3) Charlie Hauser\Brian Shea. Hockey Notes Gil Egan leads the Dutchmen in penalty minutes with 46 . . . Joe Picano's goal at :05 into the second period vs. Westfield was Union'sfastest ever ... Union is 4-10 'on the road: ... only five Dutchmen have played in all 26 games to date ... Union's young defensive corps eould use the experience of an AI .Di L.ibero down the playoff stretch . . . Union outshot Westfield 56-31 .. Union bombed Potsdam Tuesday night l0-4. Gil Egan tallied four goals for the Dut- chmen. Dutchmen Skaters storm net. Union's problem stems from their inability to win against teams that are playoff con- tenders. The Dutchmen are 3- 9•1 vs. teams that are either in the playoffs or have a shot at them. They sUmd 8-0 vs. teams that will not make the playoffs. The ECAC selection committee - takes these records into con- sideration when they decide what teams are going to qualify for the playoffs. Williams is currently 5-4-1 vs. contenders and 5-1-0 vs. non-contenders. After suffering two tough losses on the road, the Dut- chmen returned to the favorable conditions of Achilles Rinl last Saturday to face Westfield St. It did not take long for the Dutchmen to gain control of the game as they did everything against Westfield that they failed to do in their previous two games. With only eight minutes gone in the first period, the game was con- ceivqbly over as Union struck with a quick -5-0 lead. Union would go on to defeat a classless and poorly disciplined Westfield St. team, 8-2. Union received Hoop Loses to Hartwick collecting 9 assists in the half. Another .key factor that has hurt the Dutchmen in their bid for a playoff berth is the way the ECAC Div. II Western Region . e~ceptional performances from Dan O'Neill (2 goals, 2 assists), By ERIC SAPIR andJM Sports Staff Union hoopsters faced the 12-5 Hartwick Warriors, on Wed- nesday, Feb. 10. Union went out to an early 14 point lead, led by Joe Wood who had a hot hand, shooting 8 for 8 from the noor in the first half. A. rash of tur- novers hurt Hartwick early in the half and allowed Union to go on top. Midway tllrough the first half, Hartwic}t gained their composure and~cut the deficit. Hartwick, the bigger and stronger team out of the two, outmuscled Union inside, picking up numerous points on offensive rebounds. Hartwick opened the second half with'- six straight points, four of them by Tim O'Brien. After trading several baskets, Union gave up 11 unanswered points after John J arosak fouled out with 10: 12 left. The scoring spree locked up a 78-58 victory for Hartwick, dropping Union's record to 9~11. - ECAC DIVISION II HOCKEY STANDINGS (as of Sunday, Feb. 14) Team Plattsburgh North Adams Norwich Williams UNION Westfield Hamilton Middlebury Team Oswego RIT Elmira Potsdam Cortland Geneseo Brockport Buffalo WESTERN REGION Overall w L (19-11-1) 17 5 ( 16-6-0} 14 6 ( 16-11-0) 16 8 (12-7-1) 10 .. 5 ( 10-14-1) 10 9 ( 12-13-0) 7 11 (10-11-0) 6 10 (7-10-3) 4 8 NYSCHA Overall w l ( 18-7-0)d 11 2 (19-8-1) 10 2 ( 10-16-0) 8 4 (8-11-2) 6 6 ( 6- 18-l) 4 7 (9-14-0} 3 8 (8-16-0) 3 8 ( 6-14-1) 2 8 T 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 2 T 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 Pet. .760 .684 .666 .656 .525 .388 .375 .357 Pet. .846 .833 .666 .458 .363 .272 .2.72 .227 At the 3:40 mark, Hartwick's high-scoring Tim O'Brien stole a pass and hit a 15 foot jumper to give Hartwick their first lead of the game at 30•29. Hartwick increased their lead to 37-33 by the end of the first half. Marty Crouch led Hart· wick scorers in the first half with 10, while four other players scored seven points. Joe Wood led all scorers in the first half, hitting 17 points. Joe Clinton was the man feeding Wood for his jump shots and layups, This is the first time in three ,years Division II power Hart- wick has beaten Union, and although as a team the Dut- chmen played below par, fine personal performances were recorded by Joe Clinton and Joe Wood. Joe Wood scored a career high 27 · points, 17 in the first half,. as he shot a perfect 8 for 8 from the field, He was chosen to the ECAC Weekly Honor Roll for his play against Norwich · and Hartwick. This marks the second honor roll selection this year, and he also leads the team in steals with 45 on the year. Junion: guard Joe Clinton will be in the Union College record book for a single game assist mark, since he dished off 15 assists during the Hartwick game. BE IN THE FOREFRONT OF TODAY'S TECHNOLOGY AS A SCIENTIFIC-ENGINEERING OFFICER Our scientific-engineering officers are planning and designing tomorrow's weapon systems today. Many are seeing their ideas a~d conc~pts materiali~e. The¥ have the finest, stateftof-the-art equipment to test then' theones. The workmg envi- ronment is conducive to resear:ch. And Air Force ex· perience is second to none. You can be part of this dynamic team if you have a scientific or engineering degree. Your first step will be Officer Training School. Help us shape our future as we help you start yours. Be a scientific-engineering officer in the Air Force. Contact your Air Force recruiter at 472-4484/4485. Call today A great way of life Clinton, wlto · breke Bill Carmody's career mark of 326 against Norwich, sh~ttered Carmody's single game record of 13 set against Utica during the 1974-7() season. Clinton also leads in scoring with a 13.8 points per game average. The Dutchmen played a much improved Clarkson team at home on F'eb. 16 and will travel to St. Lawrence on Sat., Feb. 20. Joe Wood goes over defender SUPPORI~~--­ ------UNION SPORTS'---- 0 - 0 .c a. 1- e:::

Bill 326 also 13.8 at b. 29. 0 - 0 ..!: a. l- et lege_ 1877 CXI; Febru·ary 25, 1982 Theater Proiect Attacked By A.J. BRODSKY News Editor Barry Smith, Associate Professor of Drama, has fallen in disfavor with some people on- campus because of his handling of \The Macbeth Project.\ The criticized production is scheduled to open in the Nott Memorial on March 26. \The Macbeth Project\ is a shor- tened version of the Shakespearean work, edited by Smith to eliminate unnecessary scenes and characters in an attempt to simplify the plot. The Arts Department Professor Barry Smith reacts to crHicism of \The Macbeth Project\ production is not being attacked for its composition, but for its characterization. Cast for the lead role is professional actor George Siletzky, a 1978 Union Degler Tackles History By PAUL GIRSDANSIW · Staff · Professor Carl Degler of Stanford University spoke Monday afternoon to one hundred members of the Union College Community on the topic of \What Has Women's-History Done to American History?\ The speech was sponsored by the l.Jnion Speakers Forum and wa:s hosted by Assistant Professor Catherine Clinton of the History Department. Degler's primary point was that, in the past, most historians had written about men's con- cern's because the vast majority of chronicalers were men. He referred to Charles Beard's dichotomy which ex- plained that \what actually happened in the past\ may not ~ necessarily, or even may very infrequently, be \what writers write about\. The current era of feminism has, according to Degler, caused our previously in- disputable histories to be rewritten in the lighfof current times and circumstances. Iri short, the 1970's and the- 1980's brings women a need to know of ''their past, their identity and their history.\ Degler mentioned one of history's most fundamental writers and thinkers, Frederick Jackson Turner, as being sexist' in his writings and in the for- mulation of his theses. Turner, who described the opening of the American frontier as a chance for Americans to ex- press and practice in- dividualism, competitiveness and egalitarianism, apparently failed to mention that these were freedoms enj()yed by only frontiersmen and not fron- tierswomen. Degler also claimed that Jackson ignored the role and the circumstances of women in the new lands, and failed to mention that women on the frontier were constrained, dependent and socially trapped by their fixed position. Degler noted that everything that happened to Jackson's \Frontier American'' had actually not been the case for half of them. Degler - sfated that . the changing circwnstances and the new awareness of the last decade has revised thin'king · of what exactly freed women and what constrained them. An example of this was the Equal Rights Amendment, first proposed in 1923 by the feminist Alice Paul. At that time, most women vehemently opposed the measure because they felt it would destroy the legislation previously passed. That legislation was designed to protect the occupational welfare of women in the working class. Today, most feminist groups consider the ERA to be essential for women's rights, and view protective legislation as retrogressive. Degler cited the Temperence movement as a case study of how the profession has ignored, or considerably diminished, the role of women in political af- fairs. Even though historians tend to mention it scantily, the Women's Christian Tem- perence Union played a very :major Tole in the introduction and passage of the eighteenth amendment. _ Towards the end of his lec- ture, Degler tried to define exactly how women could be considered a \minority group\ even though they comprise at least fifty percent of the population. He mentioned that som.e historians took the term \minority\ literally and do not classify women as a minority. Despite their mathematical majority status, he maintained that women share many of the disadvantages and discriminations suffered by ethnic, racial and religious minorities. Women have been generally forced to give in to the wishes of those in social and political power. Women, are to this day, among societies \inferiors'' in terms of the power that they hold. Using this definition, Degler said that women can validly be referred to as a minority group. Degl~r warned, however, that even though women form a minority group, some of the basic principles of measuring Continued on page 2 1981-82 SPRING TERM REGISTRATION PROCEDURES Spring term classes will begin at 8:30 a.m. on Monday, March 29th. Student schedules will be distributed to college mailboxes prior to the beginning of classes. Students who do not receive a copy of their class schedule will be able to secure a copy at the Alumni Gymnasium at 8:00 a.m. on the first day of classes. Formal registration and validation of J.D. cards will take place in the Gymnasium on Monday and Tuesday, March 29th and 3oth, from 8:30 to 11:30 a.m. and from 1:00 to 4:00 p.m. Students should report as follows: Last Name ·A-E F-K L-R S-Z Report Monday morning Monday afternoon Tuesday morning Tuesday afternoon Students may report at a time other than above should classes interfere. Registration will not be permitted if a student has not settled his spring term bill and any other outstanding indebtedness to the. College. The Business Office will handle late payment of term bills and resolve billing problems at the Gymnasium. Completion of and changes in schedules will be handled at the Gymnasium from 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., except for the noon hour. Friday, April 2nd, is the last day for making schedule adjustments. \Pass~ Fail'' requests may be filed during the first week of the term. The deadline is also April 2nd. graduate. Siletzky, according to Smith, is an accomplished artist who went on to Rutgers University for graduate studies. Smith has been attacked for not casting an undergraduate for the role considering it is a Department production. Smith defended his decision on several different levels. Smith pointed out that most college theater departments, notably Skidmore and Williams, invited artists to ptJrform in their productions. Additionally, Smith brought up the example o~ the Glee -club bringing in professionals. Smith stressed that \lhe audience gets to hear good people ... and the students work directly with an acting professional.'' Smith believes in bringing in \new blood\ to give the students a \model or standard\ to work towards. When asked whether or not a student would learn more by actually playing the role, Smith candidly admitted that there was \no way any Union College student could play Macbeth.\ Smith said that the students lacked the maturity to play such an involved historic role. He pointed out that Macbeth is known as \the curse\ of theater and even professionals flop. Smith added honestly that ''this is our attempt, it might not work.\ Smith was asked whether or not quality was a factor in his decision and would quality be defined by the audience's standards or by the success of the learning experience. Smith stated that he has a double commitment. He has a professional commitment to \let students learn the artistic process'\ and a personal commitment \to tell dear, memorable stories.' • Smith added that \my hope is not to impress the audience, but to tell Shakespeare as fully and clearly as possible.\ Smith is trying to find a \healthy and dynamic balance\ between production quality for the consumption of an audience and academic quality. Smith was quite forward and stated that the \drama witl!out talent would be a drag on the audience.\ \Unless I have a person to carry the weight,\ Continued on page 3 Info Line Works By A.J. BRODSKY News Editor After three years of con- tinuous problems, The Student Info Line is now in operation. The recorded message system was the brainchild of an ad hoc Committee on Campus Infor- mation back in 1979. Housed in the Student Activities Office, the telephone recording will spew out activities happening on-campus to anyone who dials 6125. After the Committee came up with the idea, nothing was done until Will Lloyd, present Senior Trustee, requested to use an old Concordiensis machine that was lying derelict in the Student Activities Office last year. Lloyd, with the aid of Rich Tanenbawn, searched wide and far for a tape for the machine and all the components necessary for a trial run were collected later that Spring. Unfortunately, the phone system went dead on the initial trial. With the aid of Diane Winkler, Facilities Coordinator, the machine was repaired and the stage was set for trial number two. At the moment of truth, to quote · Lloyd, ''the device ate the tape.\ Enter into this complicated scenario, Jeff Mitchell and WRUC. Mitchell volunteered to continue the search for a new tape and after three months of dark deadends, one sixty-second cassette was purchased. A special electrical line was then run into the Student Affairs Office and all systems were \go.\ The system ran like a charm. WRUC is now in charge of updating the message which is changed every tw_o days. Forms are available at Mrs. Marra's desk in the Student Activities Office if one wants to announce a party, a sporting event or other such activities. Not to be outdone, rumors are circulating about an expedition in search of a two minute tape. IN_SIDE: Finals Schedule p. 4 Alumni ' Council Rep .. Statements p·. 3 \'Pea<nuts'' Strip· p. 9 ·. Commentaries p. 11 Personals p. l7 \

Page 2 From the College News Bureau Soviet Policy James Chace, managing editor ()f Foreign Affairs, and Norman Podhoretz, editor-in-chief ()f Commentary, exchanged views on American policy toward the Soviet Union o111Wednes ., Feb. 24. The program began at 3 p.m. in Social Sciences 0141, and was open to au interested persons. Chace and Podhoretz have traditionally held differing views on matters ()f £oreign policy, with Podhoretz espousing a more \'hard-line\ stance. Chace has been managing editor of Foreign Affairs since 1970. Before that,. he was managing editor of Interplay and East Europe Magazine. A magna cum laude graduate of Harvard, Chace has studied at the University of Paris. He is a member of the Council on· Foreign Relations, the Inter- national Institute of Strategic Studies, and is director of the French American Foundation. The author of numerous articles and reviews on the subject <>f foreign p()licy, Chace is the author of such books as Solvency: The ·Price «Jf Survival (1981); A World Elsewhere: The New America11 Foreign Policy (197:3); and the novel The Rules of the Game ( 1959). Podhoretz has been editor-in- chief of Commentary since 1960. He holds a bachelor's degree from Columbia University, bachelor's and master's degrees from Cambridge University, England, and a bachelor's degree from the Jewish Theological Seminary. The author of articles and reviews published in. major American periodicals, Podhoretz has written five books, including Why We Were in Vietnam (1982), Tile Present Danger (1980), and Breaking Ranks: A Political Memoir (1979). Podhoretz is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and a member of the boards ()f the Coalition for a Democratic Majority and the Committee on the Present Danger. 'l'he Chaee- Podhoretz progr~m was sponsored by the College Political Science I>eparttnent and the International Relations Club. Career Talks \Frontiers in Science and Engineering for Women,\ a one-day workshop that will allow women tq e::xplore the opportunities, problems, and rewards of a career in the sciences or engineering, will be held at Union on April 17. Supported by gran1s from the National Science Foundati()n and Union College, tbe workshop will brin1,! together professional scientists and engineers with women who are interested in establishing careers or who are considering returning to career-s in these professions. Participants will e:xpl()re such topics as employability; op- portunities for advancement; the career break with its problems and positive aspects; retraining to become com- petitive; and lifestyles in homeDlaking,dualcareers,and OONOORDIENSJS, Feb'NUI.ry !6, 1988 child rearing. Betty M . .-- Vetter, executive director of the Scientific Manpower Com- mission, will deliver the keynote address. The conference fee is $5, including lunch, and the registration deadline is March 31. For detailed information, contact Project Director Margaret Schadler in the Department of Biological Sciences at 370•6244 or Katherine Armstrong at 370- 6288. Funds Drive Union officially opened its 1982 Annual Business Campaign, Wednesday evening, February 10, with a dinner for campaign volunteers at the Schenectady Holiday Inn. Son1e 120 community leaders, in- cluding campaign volunteers, attended the kickoff celebration. Campaign chairman Wallace M. Campbell, president of Schenectady Savings Bank, announced a $150,000 goal .for the College's 12th annual business drive. Last year's campaign raised $141,000 from more than 300 contributors. In the eleven years since the Annual Business Campaign began, local community .supJK>rt of the College has exceeded $1 million. \A commitment to Union College is a good investment for businessmen and businesswomen in this area,\ Campbell said. He added that \Union is an important economic, educational, cultural, and social resource to our cammunity. Speaking to the campaign volunteers, College President John S. Morris noted that, \It is clear that we cannot look toward a future in which the federal government will dole out dollars to keep us strong. To remain an independent in- stitution of the highest ,quality, we will increasingly rely on the kind of private support represented by the Annual Business Campaign.\ Along with Campbell and Vice Chairman Anthony Salerno, president of the Glenn Davis Company, leaders of the 12th Annual Business Campaign include executive committee members John M. Braidwood of Panasonic, Inc.; Kenneth A. Dagostino of Dagostine Building Blocks; Bernard J. Fay of Mohawk National Bank; Robert 0. Grabner of Schenectady Savings Bank; Peter D. Marquis of Service Linen Supply and Willard H. Maxwell of Mohawk National Bank. The Steinmetz Curriculum is offe.ring a new seminar on \Technology and Human Values in Public Policy\ during the Spring Term. To be taught by a number of different faculty members from all areas of the campus, it is des.igned to permit students to explore a series of important connections between technological innovation, social ethics, and publ.ic-policy decision-making. Prof. Nichols will coordinate the Seminar, but different faculty members will direct one or two week segments concerning relevant areas of their own research and personal concerns. Participating faculty include Profs. Baker (Philosophy), Griggs (Civil Engineering), Hull ( Chemisiry), Klein (Economics), and Un- derwood (Political Science). Participating students will be selected from all four Divisions, and their major responsibility will be the pr~paration of a research paper to be delivered late in the term to the entire seminar and to outside experts from government, private research laboratories, and the media, who will serve as commentators. Any student interested in taking the seminar should pick up an application blank from Prof. Nichols in SS-121 or from the Associate Dean of Faculty's office, Sci- Eng 100. Professor Carl Degler speaks on topic of women's history • Historian Speaks Continued from page- l this \phenomenon\ are invalid. He noted- that one method of measuring their social - ac- ceptance, the rate of in~ termarriage with the majority group, does not apply for quite <>bvious reasons. He also noted that women have some me.ans of leverage that other minorities lack, including courtship and the withholding of sex. Professor Degler closed his hour-long talk with his opinion . on the influence of women's history upon present and future historiography. He said that the male historians of the past wrote about and studied the periodizations that pertained to men. He cited political, diplomatic and economic histories as the prime examples of such historiography. Degler predicted that male-oriented periodizations wotild gradually lose their predominance . to make way for a sexually in- tegrated historiography. These would include more accounts of history that involved won1en including social, seKUal, and family' histories. He closed with the thought that women must write their histories with an eye towards humanity in general, and work for a truly common and integrated history. The Commission on Women hosted a reception in Straus Lounge following the talk. Next Weelc' s Issue Will Be The last Concordy Of This Term. Deadline for All Material Is 7 pm, Tuesday Nite .. · Campus Protestant Fellowship Sundays: 11 ] 4th floor :~~~~r; ::~ <f. ~~~ u Lounge, 14th at 7 p.m. Carnegie WORSHIP DURING LENT BE IN THE FOREFRONT OF TODAY'S TECHNOLOGY AS A SCIENTIFIC-ENGINEERING OFFICER Our scientific-engineering officers are planning and designing ~m!lorrow's weapon systems today. Many are seeing their ideas a!ld conc~pts matenah~e. The~ have the finest, state-of-the-art equipment to test theu theones. The workmg envt ronment is conducive to research. And Air Force ex· · perience is second to none. Y?u c.a.n be pa~ of t~is dynamic team if you have a sctenttflc ~r engme~r!ng degree. Your first step will be Officer Trammg School. Help us shape Gur future as we help you start yours. Be a scientific-engineering officer in the Air Force. Contact your Air Force recruiter at 472-4484/4485. Call today A great way ojilfe

,_ .!!! 111 > 111 u Q) c: 111 ~ >- .0 0 .... 0 -§_ 001VOORDIENSIS, Februa.ry 25, 1982 Page 3 Record Success As the Hartzel Brothers were demolishing one half of an uncut pizza, Ruth Ewing was blowing her eleven :inch bubble and Steve Lerner was attempting to catch forty rquarters off his forearm. Last Tuesday night, the Cabaret Room 'Was full of beer, pizza, m11sic and laughter. Music, provided .by Andy Levine and Eric Ruben, began the show. It was fQllowed by a Record Night's MC, Rob Quish variety of attempts to set records,. from beer chugging to RUbik's cube speed trials. With the help of'M.C. Rob Quish, th~ evening's events ran smoothly. At the end of the evening, the audience was given a chance to challenge any and all records made that night.. The winners ~received' silk-screened T-shirts. They will also have their name put on a plaque where it wUI stay until next year when the records will qndoubtedly be challenged once again. The winners for 1982 are: Chugging: John Dragoon (2.6 sec.) Rubik's cube: Tom Walsh (1 min. 53 •. 90 sec. ) . Pizza eating: AndreW and John Hartzell (2 min. 6.34 .sec.). . Bubble gum blowing: Ruth Ewing (11 inches:). Quarters: Gary Chadick (8 consecutive quarters). Coin snatch: Steve Lerner ( 40 quarters). - Smith Reacts To Critics Continued from page .1 Smith continued, \we would have a paternalistic audience saying that's nice· . . . and patting their children on the head.\ It was pointed out\ dw-ing the interview by Smith that Union has established a quality theater and it is Jlecessary to uphold this quality. When the topic of mc;mey arose, Smith became a little more animated during the ensuing discussion. Siletzky, as of this interview, will receive $250 for his efforts. Smith wants the Department to increase that figure to $500 because Siletzky has been working 5 nights a week on the production in ad- dition to building sets. Smith pointed out that Siletzky is not the fiFst guest artist to appear on-stage at Union. Sixteen visiting artists have appeared and they have · received an average of $2000 for their work. Smith does not want to attack the Glee Club, but asks ''how much does Hugh Allen Wilson pay for John Houseman?\ Smith claims that it is \unfair for vultures to go after the Arts Department about peanuts.\ If there is a question of funds, why not ''dig it up all the way across campus?'' Smith says that U is unfair to siNgle out theater if the amount of funds. is being questioned. Smith is \recon- ciledto the limitation of funds, I can work in a dynamic way with limited funds.\ Smith added that it is a matter of economic \survival.\ Smith believes that the other sixteen cast members do not resent Siletzky playing the part. He thinks that ''the resentment came at the audition level.\ Smith claims that it was un- derstood at the time of auditions that the Macbeth role was pre- cast. \Some think that we should act as a club,\ stated Smith, ,.'but I am committed to the Arts Department.\ Se:e Editorial, Letters & Comme,ntaries _ Pages 10 & 11 Alumni Council Representative Statements Lynne Greenberg - Believe- it or ,not, the senior class will soon be Union College Alumni (we !lope! ) . But, our connection to Union College should last long past June ·13, 1982. The job of our Alumni Council Representatives will be to plan for our class to g~t together at ReUnion 1983 and to be our class representatives at Alumni Cguncil meetings. Having worked on the past three Homecoming and ReUnion Weekends, I feel I'm qualified to be a representative for the class of 1982. Lynne Greenberg Susan Marr The last fo.ur years have passed very quickly. Many friendships have been formed. When we leave here in June, we will be scatteredthroughout the country, some working, others on to graduate school. How will those networks of friendship be maintained? That is the job of the Alumni Council. Union does not just educate students in four years and then forget about them. It provides a common base for alwnni to return and keep in touch with old friends. It also depends upon your support. Susan Marr Those four years at Union have shown me the importance of this continued contact. I would sincerely like the op- portunity to help maintain this unity for our class. . Joseph Laurin Joseph Laurin Representative to the Alumni Council will be an important position to our class--soon. The representative will be a basic tie between you and Union in a few months and in a few years and they will be your voice in the college decision-making process. A good representative will be a person that was part of the entire picture of campus life. I am an engineering student and have lived on campus all four years. I presently serve as Senior Class Representative and as a Finance Committee member and also as Student Manager of the Rathskellar. I have been an Orientation Committee Member and an Orientation Advisor and I have participated in the Term Abroad to Italy. There are some things more important than awareness of the life at Union: concern and dedication for our class and for the college. These are characteristics that are a bit harder to recognize and that a list of activities and club memberships cannot demon- strate. There is something that a person feels and only betrays in the way he speaks when showing friends from horne · around campus or in the look on his face as he pre-registers for the very last time. It is a certain pride in what Union has done for us and stands for and it is the desire to keep that feeling of pride going by keeping ties with Union, helping to plan for it, and trying to change it for the better that is the concern and dedication necessary to keep the Alumni Council Representatives working hard for our class years after June 13, 1982. I want to be one of those representatives. Edward Pletman It is hard to believe that. our four years here at Union will soon l;>e drawing to a close. However, just because we will be graduating does not mean that our active involvement with Union College must come to an end. I would like to think that during my stay here at Union I was able to give to the college community as much as I was able to take from it in terms of my experiences and in- teractions with the faculty and with the student body. Through these experiences I have gained a great deal of fondness for Union College and I would like to be able to continue my relationship with the school throurh the position of Alumni Counc.l Representative. As a member of the council I would like to make sure that our class is well represented in the following year and to see to it that we still have an open channel of communication through which members of the Class of 82 can in the future still contribute their time and ex- perience to the College. In closing, I would like to en- courage all of the senior class to come out one more time and show your: support by voting on Tuesday March 2, for the members of our ·class who will be representing our interests on the Alumni Council in the following year. Thank you. Edward Pletman Deborah Rudolph I have always been interested in the alumni affairs of Union College as my father graduated from Union in 1955. From my father, I learned what a rewarding experience it can· be to keep in touch with your alma mater and be involved in the alumni events, such as Homecoming, class reunions, and fund raisers. I myself have gained firsthand knowledge of the alwnni program at Union; for four years I have worked with Paul Rieschick, Director of the Annual Fund, on the Phone- a-thon Committee, and worked last summer in Lamont House where I came in contact with all phases of Union-alumni in- teraction and those persons responsible for: the alumni programs and correspondence. I feel that I would be an en- thusiastic representative of the Alumni Council; willing to give the proper amount of time to attend meetings and plan events, such as Homecoming and our first class reunion. I look back fondly on the four years that I have spent at Union as a member of the Class of 1982 and hope to remain involved and keep the Union tradition of active alumni alive! Deborah Rudolph Tomson Scott I am only one, But still I am one. I cannot do everything, But still I can ·do something; , And because I cannot do everything I will not refuse to do the something · that I can do. -Edward E. Hale ( 1822-1909) Brian Shea To My Fellow Classmates: I would like to state my in- terest in and qualifications for becoming an Alumni Council Representative for the Class of 1982. My interest in Union College is best represented by my level of commitment and in- volvement as an un- dergraduate. Aside from my academic aspirations I have participated in a wide range of undergraduate activities. As President of the Chi Psi Fraternity I have dealt ex- tensively with the Greek System and with ad- ministrators. Also, I have played two varsity sports, been an Annual Fund Phonathon member, written sports articles for Concordiensis, and have been a former Gatesman. Lastly, as a senior career seeker I have utilized our career center. The scope of my involvement as an undergraduate portrays my dedication to Union and my awareness of the assets and detriments that life at Union currently possesses. I am confident that I have the necessary perspective to add meaningful and influential input to the Alumni Council. I would very much enjoy the opportunity to shape the future of Union College. Brian Shea Seniors: Don't forget to Vote on Tues., March 2 at Carnegie Hall from 94:30.

Page 4 OONOORDIEN$18, February !5, 198e FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE ' -Winter Ter111 1981-82 ' . \ IMPORTANT: This exam schedule is primarily for regular \day\ under:graduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate Studies and C(lntinlling Education. courses wiJl be an- nounced, and students in \Section 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the' announcement of the exam time for those courses except for Awn. and Mgt. 241(Sec. 51) which is included here. Conflicts should be reported to Mrs. Lapidus in the Office of the Registrar not later than Friday, March 5, 1982 Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed ~low is the code·ofthe buildings to be used: AB~Arts Building BH-Bailey Hall BU-Butterfield Hall HU-Hwnanities Building N-North Wing, Science-Eng. Bldg. OC-Old Chapel PY \--'Psychology Laboratory ss-social Science Building SH-8teinmetz Hall CH-Carnegie Hall MONDAY, MARCH 15 • 9:0CH1:00 a.m. . Freshmen Preceptorial tO-Perception and Persuasion, Sec. 6-Anderson-BHHl2 Classics 22-History of Rome: The Republic-Zigelis-HU 019 Economics 1()-Elementary Economics, Sec. 2-Klein,..SS 012 Economics 11-Elementary Economics, Sec. 2-Kershner-ss 115 Economics 1~1nternational Economics-Phaup-SS 113 · English 72-American Literature I-Stevenson-HU 014 English 78-Structure of th,e English Language: Linguistics-Nelson-~ H5 . . . . History 10-History and Society: The Emergence and Character of Traditional Ctvilization- Hansen, Wells-SS l12 History 18-Emergence of Modern America, 1885-1929-Jonas-SS 117 History 30-The Development of the American Economy-Finkelstein-SS 014 French 10-Basic French 1-Warger-HU 116 French 133-The French Language in Practical Use, Sec .. 1-Thornas-HU 112 Gennan 10-Basic Gennan I-Kellenter-HU 117 Gennan 11-Basic Gennan II-Warde-HU 110 Political Science U-Contemporary International Politics-Nichols-88 010 Sociology 10-Introduction to Sociology, Sec. l..Schneller-CH 205 American Studies 72-American Literature I-stevenson-HU 014 Biology 11-Topics in Contemporary Biology-B. Boyer, Schadler-BH 106 Biology 156-Topics in Developmental Biology-Rappaport-SH 100 Chemistry 12-Fundamental Chemistry II ' Sec. l-8caife-BU 204 Sec. 2-8owa-BU 204 Sec. 3-Anderson-BU 204 Sec. ~caife-BU 204 Geology 10-Physical Geology-Zimmerman-BU 106 Mathematics 10-Calculus 1-Maddaus-BH 201 Mathematics 28-Probability..Seiken-BH 207 Mathematics 146-Advanced Calculus 1-Fairchild-BH 203 Physics 11-IntroductioQ to Physics I (engineering, Chemistry, Mathematics and Phys~cs Majors), Sec. 2-Reich-8H 106 Physics 13-Introduction to Physics II(Engitleering, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics Majors), Sec. 2-Pilcher-BH 205 Physics 36-Methods of Theoretical Physics-Newman-N222 Physics 47-Photography...Jones-N116 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 2-Girdner-PY 213 Psychology 20-Statistical Methods in Psychology-Greenberg-PY 213 Psychology 31-Abnonnal Psychology-Nydegger-PY 102 Psychology 46-Introduction to Psychobiology-Markiewicz-BH 108 E.S. 10-Mechanics 1-Weiss--BU 109 E.S. 20-Mechanics II-Panlilio-N210 E.S. 30-Mechanics of Deformable Solids-Guntur-8H110 C.E. 15-Fundamentals of Computational Civil Engineering-Jewell-8H101 G.E. 152-Environmental Engineering II-8now-BU300 MONDAY, MARCH 15- 2:004:00 p.m. English 39-Studies in Special Topics: Literature and History in America -8mith-HU112 French 147-WQrlds of Illusion of Twentieth Century French Literature-Warger-HU116 Gennan 131-Goethe's Faust-Warde-HU117 • Philosophy 45-Aesthetics-Patrik-HU019 . Political Science 55=International Security Affaits=Brown--88115 Political Science 62-Judicial System-Grogan-8Sl12 Adni.. & Mgt. 241-8ystems Analysis and Simulation-Yazici-BH 104, Sec. 51 Statistics 10-lntroduction to Statistics-8chmee-BH108 Psychology 45-Experimental Psycho,ogy II-Huntley-PY102 Computer Science 18-Structured Programming Sec. 1-Hassib-BU204 Sec. 2-Hassib-BU204 Sec. 3-Gajjar-BU109 Computer Science 135-0perating Systems-Hannay-BH207 TUESDAY, MARCH 16- 9:00.11:00 a.m. Economics 58-China!-B. Reynolds-CH205 History 50-Western Imperialism in the Nineteenth and Twentieth Century-Hansen--88112 History 57-Modern Jewish History-Berk-SS113 History 63-Latin America and the United States-Bristol-88012 History 67-China!-B. Reynolds-CH205 French 11-Basic French 11-Ruthman-HUllO _ French 138-A Survey of French Literature 1-McDennott-HU016 Gennan 133-The German Language in Practical Use I-Warde-HU014 German 142-Romantik und Realismus-Kellenter-HU112 Russian 11-Basic Russian II-Jernakoff-HU116 Spanish 11-Basic Spanish II-Diez-Herencia-HU117 Philosophy 11-Philosophical Classics-Davis-HU019 Philosophy 70-History and Philosophy of Science I-Ludwig-HU114 Political Science 1115-China!-B. Reynolds-CH205 Biology 21-Biology of Animals-Core I...Schadler, B. Boyer, Roth-BH201 Biology 62-World Agriculture-George, Tobiessen-Nll6 Biology 170-General and Comparative Endocrinology-Butterstein-BH207 Mathematics 18-Introdllc;:tion to Logic and Set Theory-Taylor-BH203 Mathematics 130-Complex Analysis-Zimmennan-BH102 · Physics 11-lntroduction to Physics I (Biology, Science, Hwnanities and Social Science Majors)-Newman-8H106 Physics 13-Introduction to Physics II (Biology, Science, Hwnanities and Social Science Majors )-8chick-8H101 Physics 151-Modem Physics 11-Jones, Peak-8H100 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 4-Benack-PY113 Psychology 30-Personality-8pring-PY102 Psychology 33-Cognitive Psychology-Greenberg-PY213 E.L.L. 12-ltomes, Buildings and Engineering Principles-Harlow-BU109 E.S. 22-Science of Engineering Materials-Auten-BU2M E.S. 33-Fluid Systems Analysis-Jewell-8Hl10 E.E. 33-Analysis and Design of Electronic Circuit$-Chang-BU106 M.E. 30-Dynamics of Linear Systems-Kennedy-88115 Computer Science 12-Programming for the Sciences-Federighi--BH106 TUESDAY, MARCH 16- Z:oo-1:00 p.m. Latin 145-Cicero-Zigelis-HUUO Economics 11-Elementary .Economics Sec. 1--Lewis-HU115 Sec. 2-Lewis-HU115 English 48-Fi:lm as Fictive Art--Gado-88016 Chemistry-organic Chemistry II-Werner-BH 106 Psycbology 38-Developmental Psychology-Benack-PY113 C.E. tO-Introduction to Comrnunications-Griggs-BU106 WEDNESDAY,. MARCH 17 • 9:0tH1:00 a.m. \ Freshman Preceptorial 10-Percep~ion and Persuasion, Sec. 8-Nydegger-PY102 Freshman Elective 45-ThEfi.ast Wilderness: The Human Mind\-Huntley-PY204 . Freshman Elective 66-Intelligent Life in the Unive.rse-Ohanian-8H100 Economics 11-Elementary Economics, Sec. 3-Love-SS012 Economics 13&-Quantitative Methods in E.conomics-s. Schmidt-88014 English 2:J-:The American Short Story-Gado-HUU5 English 55-Shakespeare to 1600-Murphy-liU112 History 44-A Survey of Modern EurQpe, 1715-1945-Berk--8S113 History 45-The Second World War Era-Hansen-88016 . French 133-The French Language iii Practical Use I, Sec; 2-Ruthman-HUllO Spanish 10-Basic Spanish I Sec. 1-Diez-Herencia-HU116 Sec. 2-Vinick--HU117 Philosophy 38-0riental Philosophy-Patrik-HU014 Political Science 11-Contemporary American Politics-Tidmarch--8Sll2 Biology 22-Biology of Plants-Core II-Frohlich-Nll6 Biology 24-Genetics and Evolution-Core IV-J. Boyer-BU 204 Biology 160-Functional Histology and Organology-Roth-BH207 Chemistry tO-Fundamental Chemistry I Sec. 1-8chaefer-8S115 Sec. 2-Weick-SS117 Sec. 3-8chaefer-8Sl15 Mathematics 32\-Abstract Algebra I-Niefield-BH102 , Physics 13-lntroduction to Physics II (Engineering, Chemistry, Matlfematics and Physics Majors), Sec. 3-Maleki-BU109 Psychology 24-Social Psychology-Lipton-PY113 E.S. 26-Thermodynamics. and Heat Transfer, Sec. 1-Aubrey-88101 E.S. 33-Fluid Systems Analysis-Shanebrook-SHllO C.E. 130-8tructures-Lakhanpal--BU104 C.E. 143-Foundations and Concrete Construction-Harlow-BU300 E.E. 243-Electrornagnetic Engineering II-Branch-SH219 C.S. 37-Structured Programming-8chwarz-HU114 C.S. 130-Data Structures-G. Williams-CH205 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17- 2:00-4:110 p.m. Chemistry 15-The ·chemistry of Things-sowa-BU204 E.S. 31-Electrical Circuits and Devices-! Sec. 1-Branch-N116 Sec. 2-Chang,.-BU109 . Sec. 3-Kwnp-HUU5 E.S. 42-Electric Circuits II Sec. 1-Kwnp-HU115 Sec. 2-Craig-HU114 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17- 6:00-8:00 p.m. Anthropology 11-Comparing Cultures through Film-Gmelch-BU204 THURSDAY, MARCH 18- 9:01).;11:00 a.m. Mathematics 12-Calculus II Sec. 1-Bick-BH201 Sec. 2-Gillette-BU109 Sec. 3-Muckenfuss-BHJ07 Sec. 4-Rousseau-BH108 Sec. 5-Gingrich-8S112 Sec. 6-Niefield-SS117 Sec. 7-Zinunerman-HU019 Sec. 8-Pappas-HU115 Sec. 9-Dubisch-HU114 Mathematics 14-Calculus III Sec. 1--Gillette-BU109 Sec. 2-Maddaus-BH205 Mathematics 20-Mathematical Methods for the Social Sciences Sec. 1-Bick-BH201 Sec. 2-Muckenfuss-BH207 Sec. 3-Taylor-BH203 Mathematics 3ll-Ordinary Differential Equations Sec. l-Pappas-HU115 - · Sec. 2-Seiken-8S115 Psychology 62-Pracicwn in Human Relations I--Girdner-PY113 Psychology 63-Practicum in Human Relations ll-Girdner-PY113 THURSDAY, MARCH 18- 2:00-4:00 p.m. Arts 75-Chinese and Jap!iJlese Art-Thurston-AB104 Greek 10-Principles of Greek-Ketterer-HUUO Latin 11-Principles of Latin-Ketterer-HUllO History 66-The History of Chinese and Japanese Art-Thurston-AB104 Hebrew 11-Basic Hebrew II-Heckelman-HU116 Russian 134-The Russian Language in Practical Use II-Jernakoff-HU117 Philosophy 20-Classical Logic-Peterson-HU115 Political Science 88-Contemporary Politics of the Middle East-Pelletiere-HU112 Anthropology 144-Urban Life-Gmelch-8S012 Statistics 110-lntroduction to Statistical Methods-Delaney-BH201 Accounting tO-Financial Accounting-Hurley-BH207 Psychology 35-Industrial..Organizational Psychology-1Jpton-SS016 Psychology 49-Clinical Models of Psychotherapy II-Dowling-PY113 FRIDAY, MARCH 19 - 9:06-11:00 a.m. Economics 10-Elementary Economics, Sec. 1-Love-88115 Biology 130-Comparative Animal Physiology-Lambert-BH207 Chemistry !54-Physical Chemistry 111-Hayes-N222 Physics 11-lntroduction to Physics I (Engineering, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics Majors), Sec. 1-Titus-BH201 Physics 13-lntroduction to Physics II (Engineering, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics Majors), Sec. 1-Qhanian-8H101 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. l-Huntley-PY102 E.S. 10-Mechanics I-Guntur-BU106 E.S. 26-Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer, Sec. 2-8hanebrook-8H110 C.E. 160-Tr~sportation Engineering-Griggs-BU300 Computer Sc1ence tO-Perspectives on Computer Languages and Software-Schwarz-BH203 Computer Science 11-FORTRAN Programming for the Social Sciences-Morecroft-BU109 FRIDAY, MARCH 19- 2:00-4:00 p.m. Economics 31-Mieroeconomic Analysis-B. Reynolds-88115 Economics 39-Public Finance-Love-SS112 Philosophy 31-Medieval Philosophy-Peterson-HU110 Philosophy 32A-Modern Philosophy I-Ludwig, KaminSky-HU112 Political SCience 51-American Foreign Policy-Gati-SS1l7 Sociology tO-Introduction to Sociology, Sec. 2-Farrell-SS113 Psychology 10-A First Course in· Psychology, Sec. 3-Greenberg-PY102 E.S. 11-Engineering Graphic8-Eisenstadt-BU104

' CJONOORDIENSIS;··February ~5, 198! Page 5 ----------------~~------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~----~------~------------------------- Special Report Financial Aid Fighting. The Cuts Compiled By .PAUL GROSSMAN. Editor-in.Chief The following is the second in a two part series on the crisis facing Union and: schools like ours in light of the recent Reagan Administration budget proposals. Fighting the Cuts (CPS)-\They got their heads handel! to them,\ grouses one Missouri financial aid official of last year's college budget battle between the Reagan ad .. ministration and the higher education lobby .entrusted with Closing The D·oor Last week's issue of \The Chronicle of Higher ·Education\ reported that the current student aid cuts proposed by the Reagan Administration would effectively \close the door\ of colleges and universities to children from middle class backgrounds. More serious than the already disastrous effects of such segregation in higher education is the threat of no access t<> colleges and universities ·for \hundreds of thousands\ of students. The \Chronicle\ reported that, by slicing federal· funds for student aid, the Administration would' 'close the doors to college education for many children of hard-pressed working and middle-income families.\ This statement was credited to John Brademas, president of New York University. Mr. Brademas was also quoted as saying that the student aid cuts which were proposed in the 1983 budget, would, \create a two-tiered system of higher education, offering elite private education for the rich, and state and municipal colleges for everyone else.\ The \Chronicle\ also went on to report the following: \If the propo~ed cuts are made, American higher education will no longer be as democratic, varies, and regionally and culturally diverse as it has been,\ said Mr. Brademas, a former member of the House Committee on Education and Labor. \Edward J. Bloustein, president of Rutgers Univer- sity, called 'what is .happening to student aid a calamity.\' \He said, 'We are moving from a system designed to educate those most able to learn, regardless of financial need, to a preserve for those who are best equipped to pay.\' protecting college program f.unding. ''Reagan cu.t education because ·he· thoaght educators were politically weak, and ·he was right. Colleges .got beat.\ It won'.t happen again, ac- cording to Bo.b Aaron, spokesman for the America~ CouncH on Education, . the largest associati()n of U.S. colleges and wliversities. Still smarting fwrn the 12 percent cut in college funds imposed for the Hl8~ fiscal year budget,. college lobbyists have organized an aggressive national campaign that includes a national Day of Protest March 1 to beat the even more dramatic cuts President Reagan wants to make for fiscal 1983. Fourteen maJor lobbying groups, for example, have formed an Action C()mmittee in the capitol, complete with its own 800 nwnber, to coordinate nationwide efforts to escape the cuts. The U.S. Student .Association (USSA) is sponsoring· its annual lobbying conference, which some 400 student government leaders from across the country are expected to attend, in conjunction with .thE March 1 protest effort. Lobbyists want students and others to come to Washington that day- in force .to persuade lawmakers to vote against the Reagan ctrts. The ·Coalition ()f Private College and University Students is also co-sponsoring the March 1 efforts. Aaron's Action Ctnnmittee has. already done a. mass mailing to college officials, warning tbem of .the con- sequences of the budget cuts, giving them materials to place in local media, and getting \them to tell alumni what's going to happen.\ The Committee aU3o aims to form \campus committees Qf students, faculty and .staff members to sit doWl1 with the editorial boards of their local newspaperst do talk shows, get people to write their congressmen,•t Aar()ll says. The committees will help mobilize ''the resentment of the student's parent wllo says, 'I just got a $600 tax cu.t and a bill for $5000 in tuition bEcause my kid no longer qualifies for financial aid,\ Aaron hopes. The Action Committee will have regional coordinators to oversee what Aaron calls \the grassroots activities.\ Aaron has a ca~npaign in mind, too, to demonstr-ate that ''this is bad for the country as a whole.\ Harting Ourselves He says, \We'll be pointing out that all oftllese numbers are people. When we push people out of college, we're eating our own seedcorn. I mean, we want to make our economy more productive, so we cut the graduate students who do the studies that make it more productive. They want a stronger military? Well, who the hell do they think is going to design all these weapons systems for them if they close down university research?\ With all protest >'Systems going, Aaron hopes to generate \the same sort of reaction as there was when Reagan tried to cut Social Security.\ Efforts Begun The ambitious plans, carefuJ organization and sophisticated ''press materials were missing last February, when Reagan first defeated the college lobby and convinced Congress to slash federal campus programs. \To tell you the truth, I don't think anybody expected (Reagan) would actually get his program through,'' Aaron recalls. College lobbyists, he says, were \generally in agreement with the administration that we'd all have to make some sacrifices to get the economy going. We said we'll do our part.'' But \when our part turned out to be a 12 percent cut and everyone else got a four percent cut, we were aU legitimately shocked. No one thought the gashes were going to be that deep or wide~\ That attitude remains in some places. Dr. William Pickens of the California Post-secondary Education Commission hopes the cuts this year are too big to be true. \Maybe I'm a pollyanna, but the cuts as we have heard them rumored are so extreme that they constitute a complete reversal of national policy for the last ten years.'' This year's cuts, however, seem to have touched a nerve in many quarters. Student governments and groups in Illinois, Michigan and Penn- sylvania, among other states, have already begun spon- taneously to coordinate anti- cuts efforts. USSA is con- sider-ing organizing a student voter registration drive to at- tack lawmakers who vote for the cuts. Dr. John Conard of the Kansas Board of Regens promises educators \would band together to assault the state legislature\ if the State Student Incentive Grant program is abolished. And \if the (Guaranteed Student Loan) program was seriously impaired, then you would see a lot of weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth fron1 the presidents of colleges.'' Lobby Do This Monday, March 1st, is the date scheduled for the Second Annual Student Lobby Day in Washington D.C. In a memorandum issued by the Independent Student Coalition, co-sponsors (with a number of other student in- terest organizations) of the event, the day is designed to be \a concentrated effort to have our interests recogniZed by Congress.\ \Although unprecedented, we believe the time is NOW for students and. administrators to link arms during this critical time for higher education. Let's make the powers that. be in · Washington understand that the higher education conununity is together on this one.\ Bob Massa., Director of Financial Aid here at Union, is strongly encouraging Union students to attend the rally. Student Forum president, · Weldon Turner, has information for those people who are in- terested in going (he can be contacted at Chi Psi) and has himself expressed a strong ba,rentad1Hm, aot»lntmE~nt with·tl · ~~:~~~r:=: 1 ~~~ .na,r'ijnotf :~ihllJilY indicla·te· who you are wa,sbittgto;n, interest in attending the Lobby. Mr. Massa has said that he will be attempting to find funds that he would make available to students attending the rally in order to defray costs somewhat. Although he could not commit himself to any set amount, Mr. Massa did feel confident that he would be able to provide at least some monetary support for students attending the rally, whether on fim,mcial aid or not. For those interested in at· tending the rally, the schedule of events can be found in the bax below. ,.,.S:OO..:Re~~qon With Congre$sttten, Tb.efr Staff ~nd Students. FtayburnHouse Office B.uilding, Room 2175. Students wm have the opportunity to meet mfor.mally with their senators, representatives and congressicmfd ·staffers.

Page 6 OO?YOOBDIENSIS, Feb?WJ,ry 25, 1982 feature Union Nights Commentar.r: Wh I . ''M I '' ByBITSY I really didn't feel like going out. I had the brutal head cold that seems native to the Capital District. It is characterized by the distinct feeling that a combat boot is repeatedly striking the back of the head. In addition, I was considerably weakened by my donation to the T.D. Chi Bloodmobile and sickened by the smell of the 50 Domino's Pizzas I had ordered so that my donn could win the all-campus Budweiser party. Endless coercion by my girlfriends convinced me that I'd be better off succumbing than listening to them outline the potential evils of secluding oneself in North College for an entire evening. Personally, I would have preferred a quiet evening of \When Diplomacy Fails.\ The nigllt began with drinks at the Pub. As I waited at the bar, I casually glanced around. The bartender was arguing with an I.D.-less student: \I promise I'll return the pitcher.\ The hockey team was drowning the evening's defeat in a corner. A group of girls was helping the hockey team drown the evening's defeat in the same corner. Bored after my first orgasm (chocolate), I suggested we go elsewhere. There was little disagreement as to where to go. The Skellar was packed, and during my five minute squeeze to· the bar; I managed to make a few superficial exchanges with familiar faces. As I stood at the bar, I was informed by various signs that I could now drink myself blind for one-third fewer calories, there were no tomatoes or ice cream in the immediate vicinity, and that my tip would enable the Skellar Rats to send aid to the rnudslide victims in California. Feeling somewhat charitable, I slid a quarter into the cup only to realize that I had no quarter left to hear Paper Lace sing \The Night Chicago Died\ - a classic jukebox favorite. I casually removed the quarter and was immediately accosted by two See Career Center 0 Information p. 16 and Personals p. 17 Rats demanding to see my I. D. I ducked behind a pillar and found myself face to face with a male caucasian of ap- proximately 20. He peered at me through strangely glassy eyes and smoothly murmured \Zoo at the Lodge.\ I ducked back behind the pillar and noticed one of my friends surrounded by a group of males attempting to persuade her to ''come back to the House for a couple of beets.\ I grabbed her and headed for the door. We burst into the sub-zero night air and began a brisk walk back to the dorm. A group of in-· toxicated pledges were at- tempting to steal the flagpole. A lone soul was in the process of affixing white gloves to the hands of the chapel clock. A security car cruised past, unaware. As we approached the dorm, I heardthe distant ring of • en s .· .. onopo.y More Than A Game? a fire alarm. Outside North College, groups of girls huddl~d in down coats and bunny slip- pers. Amid the mud packs and hot rollers one could see the unmistakably muscular legs ' and unshaven faces of the overnight male visitors. They seemed somewhat ill at ease in their frilly bathrobes. As I waited for the bell to cease, I could only think ofthe 50 pizzas I had yet to .face. Editor's Note: The following was written in response to the Commentary entitled \When is '·Killer' More Than a Game?\ by Norman Birnbacb in the Feb. 18 issue. By ·BRUCE J. GOLDSTEIN · Capitalists ar-e stalking college campuses all over the country, and the workers are helpless. Investors are gather.ed around playing boards, driving countless numbers of in- dividuals into bankruptcy. Monopoly, alias the world's most popular family game, is catching on at colleges across the country. The object of Monopoly is simple: be the last investor solvent. In Monopoly, you get a playing piece and some money .. Your objective is to drive other players into bapkruptcy-- preferred weapons are hotels and railroads (and utilities for the advanced player). Playing is not dangerous, and cheating is frowned upon. After building a large number of hotels, you . . •. will probably receive all of your opponent's money, forcing him to mortgage his properties and (if he or she does not dive out the window first) into bankruptcy. In real life, being unscrupulous most often pays. In a game played by millions all over the world, the same quality is a must. So, is Monopoly more than a gam_e? No, many say. It is a game., pure and simple and fun .. It is an outlet for frustration and pent-up anxiety, as well as a means for enjoying ones self and the company (and com- petition) of others. Sublimation? A desire to drive one's . competition into bankruptcy appears to me to be a somewhat primitive impulse, and playing Monopoly is con- sidered more socially and culturally acceptable than is reveling in one's financiar success ·as one's competition ponders the wreckage of his life's work. But, when a controversy arises as to who owes whom a certain amount of money is taken to the banker,. and the . • I SPRING BREAK '82 . ':'\ . . • & • ~ . *DAYTONA BEA< H $114 FT. LAlJDERDAlf $129 Above Rates Include 7· Nights Lodging at Deluxe Oceanfront Hotels Departures: • New York • f'hil .. (Metro) • Wish. oc • Harrisburgh PA • Boston • Providence • Albany NV • Binghamton NY • Hartford • Many Campus Departures Availabh! Add $15 for Upstate NY and New England e>ep.rtures *fiEf Disney Wortd Tr~ EJCCUI'IIons All lUre ;ar. sub;«t to ;an ·s IIJ T.a• ,and 5Mia C~ For Further • Information & Reservations Contact..., or Vour Local TRAVEL AGENT r-----------------, I CAMPUIVACATIONAISOCIATION.I (212) 834·9670 I I 26 Court StrHt, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11242 I I 0 Ytl, I (dtapitrataly) need a Florida Break. Send me your I I brochure pronto. I I Namt I I Addrtaa, ______ _..;. __________ _ I 1°~ I ( State . ~lp · · ·I L----~------------~ banker cannot reach an ac- ceptable solution, is the result invariably a peacdul resolution? Does the psychological warfare, the intimidation that takes place make Monopoly more than jtist a game? Now, to the question of Monopoly's effect on one's level of frustration. Most people would - say that playing Monopoly is .a release. If this is so, how does one explain the aforementioned aspects of playing Monopoly. Is it possible that this is the way games are supposed to be played? What of the possibility that playing Monopoly increases frustration? When one player- thinks he has .driven another- into bankruptcy, only to find that he has $~000.00 hidden underneath the board, imagine how upset the first player must be! Then again, it is only a game. Games, by their very nature, \falsify or distort reality.'' Moreover, competitive games involve an element of risk, and thus not orily create tension, but provide the means for relieving that tension. Is this is a problem per se? Bankruptcy is a bad thing, but when there is a game whose sole object is to drive as many people as possible into it, can reality be distorted? Does Monopoly give people a slightly different view of what is- right? Does this make Monopoly more than a game? C'mon, folks. But wait~in the year ending June 30th, 1979, there were 226,000 petitions for bankruptcy filed, with another 258,()00 pending. These are petiti()ns that were presented to the clerks of each court of the United States District Colll't system. It is not unreasonable to assume that the amount of money lost by the creditors of 'those who filed these p~titi~ns far exceeded the sum total of Union's endowment. Yet Monopoly is only a game, right? Right. When I was twenty-one, I interned for an attorney in New York. As the president of the firm was a prom1nent taJC. lawyer, I saw many bankruptcy cases come and go. The despair on the faces of these men and women was too much to bear. I thoroughly enjoyed my work, but one day I had to leave the somber atmosphere tllat prevailed for but a few hours. As I wandered along Fifty- Fourth Street, I encountered a transient who told me of his fall from riches to rags. He was once a successful land baron, but his empire was undermined by the sinister deeds of his e:x-.partner. Never again would this poor soul dine at the Four Seasons or attend a Broadway play. That slUiliDer, I did no.t play monopoly. But now that I have some free time . . . (Author's note: By no means do I condone the actions that led to the recent tragedy at U.C.L.A., as well as on other campuses. However, it shotild be noted that those tragedies were the result of immature and irresponsible actions on the p~rt of the . participants. Those wh() attempt to alleviate some of the boredom and pressure that builds up at this time of year should not be condemned. Those who act irresponsibly, and tum a game--any. game--into 1 dangerous situation, should be.)

ac- result the the place j\ust of level this is in the ts of es are of ases playel\' find a ieving a bad game as it, Does right? ks. were the the Court of of of Yet right? I the tax. I work, the that Fifty- a fall was baron, bis would Four not that r led at other gedies wh() of the that yeal\' Those tlll'n J.c be.) OONCORDIENSIS~ February 25, 1981J - Page 7 features Un:ion's Resident· Advisors 1: ~ ~ Ill -o ·By TOM ~GERIAN Staff Edjt&r's Note: This is the first of a twCJ J»art series. Plastered on the walls of every resi.dence ball are fliers notifying :us of an event which begins every year at this time at Union college: the selection process for Resident and Head Resident Advisors. By the widespread publicity, you'd nevel\' know just how com- petitive a p()sition it is to get. Last 'year ninety to one hundred students applied for only thirty nine .spots. The selection process itself is a very tedious one, involving a committee twenty seniors who, as H.R.A. Beth Donaghue puts it, \ ... use the experience that they've had on their f.loors as far as looking for another R.A. ... \ This year the seclection process will ~hange slightly. Previously, an applicant would have to choose a \sponsor\ who would testify to his cbal:\acter in an interview with the selection committee~ This - year, however, sponsor wiH only write a brief written statement about the applicant.. Problems were encountered with the old method where many sponsors would either glorify the applicants or discredit them, none giving a moderate unfiltered view of the sponsored party's character. Exactly what the selection committee looks for in a potential RA. is hard to define as Tim Mara, an H.R.A. veteran of two years, explains: ':The .j ob of an R.A. is very rarely cut and dry. You deal with a lot of grey areas so they want to make sure that when they cb()ose a candidate, its a person who knows how to deal with other human beings, knows how to think on his feet, and has a sense of responsibility toward the school, toward the peopleon his .floor and towards himself.\ The Residence Life Handbook states the R.A. 's primary ,charge as one which attempts\. .. to foster an environment, on each residence hall floor, whereby each student has the opportunity to· achieve his-her potential as a whole person.\ The official job descriptioQ stresses that the R.A. must '' ... consider himself or herself an R.A. at ali times and ... develop ideals and ethica1 practices consistent with that position.\ In other words, its a twenty-four hour job. An R.A. is on call all day and night, whether it be to help a student decide which course to preregister for, or to let him-her in a room at 3:00AM because of a lost key. He is responsible not only \to enforce the rules and regulations of the college in the dorm and see that proper maintainance is received by his floor .(repairs, and appropriate housekeeping) but to also be available to the students on big or her floor whether it be for .counseling on individual social or academic problems, · or, as Resident Student Development Coor- dinator Chip Morris puts it \ ... an effective resource person. You have to know the campus.· . . know where the different buildings are, where the dif- ferent offices are located, where to go for what.\ One gets the impression that a special course \in R.A.-ing\ is necessary. Well, that is not far from being true. One week before students arrive, R.A. 's .!: ...J. >- .C· E 0 -a Marabeth Soltis the HRA of Richmond FLORIDA frorn NYC $69 one way_ SAN JU.AN from NYC $178 round trip also Twenty days in Europe from $1395 EASTER CRUISE 7day Carib. Cruise R. T. Air-Alb. to Miami All Cruise Amenities S.S. Festivals from $1064 UNION STUDENTs-We book all kinds of travel indlJding terms abroad, trips home, etc. Van Curler Travel Inc. ~~ Schenectady 611 Stale Street · 3 7 4-3176 ~~cf~ -.WE DELIVER- 374-Ul88 ~~ .2;-~ 464 State St. Schenectady, NY both old and new begin a week of training where, as H.R.A. Marabeth Soltis explains, they \. .. . learn to handle all of the different things that could possibly arise for the coming year. One of the things we focus on is new student adjustment: what sort of things to look for and expect.\ The trainees are given a \crisis calendar which tells them what to expect for each month. For instance, it designates Thanksgivtng as the time when most freshmen break up with their hometown honeys and they cotne back depressed. Much of the training is geared toward helping fresh- man more than upperclassman. , Cbip Morris explains: \. . . a lot of upperclassman, juniors and seniors, are under the opinion (that) they don't need an R.A. so they don't often come to them. They've got their circle of friends that they rely on for support, for comfort, for ideas and a lot of times they won't utilize the R.A. to the degree that they should. The freshmen and sophomores are more apt to . go to the R.A. with a problem.\ Bob Brewster, also an H.R.A., adds an important fact, pointing out that \ ... fifty percent of the students housed on campus, that are not in fraternities, are freshmen.\ Part two will deal further with the training and life of the Union. College Resident Advisor. Interested • 1n Writing Features? Contact Judi at 6155 Bob Brewster and Beth Donahue, HRA's of Fox and Davidson. Buyers Beware By BOB VanVORIS Staff In the words of Sir Francis Bacon, \Money is like muck, not good unless it be spread\. Union's administration an- nounced recently that it will be spreading the muck 15.1 percent thicker starting next fall. Tuition, room, and board are projected to rise from $8600 to $9900 in 1982-'83. While this is a relatively modest increase when compared to those ·Of other schools, there are many other useful things that can be done with this amount of money. Listed below are a few of the more constructive uses for ninety-nine hundred dollars. Recreation: Everyone feels washed-out from time to time after a long week of classes at Union. Why not hire a taxi to take you to the more relaxed atmosphere of, Skidmore College . . . three-hundred and sixty times? . . . A friend was curious to know how many oWlces of \shit\ could be bought for $9900. Not being a frequent user of shit, I had no idea. A quick call to Northeastern Nurseries in Albany, though, revealed that twelve tons of the \good stuff\ would cost $9600 but that a medium grade fertilizer could be had at a cost of only $450 per ton. Commtmication: If money talks, then Union students have quite a lot to say. $3645 will put \The Communist Manifesto\ in telegram form on Ronald Reagan's -desk by morning. Why not use the rest of the money to cheer up someone who's feeling a little down? A mere $828 will allow you to read \War and Peace\ over the telephone to Charles Mam>on in his California prison cell, leaving more than enough to send a liftime subscription to \Penthouse\ and a case of Bacardi along with your Christmas greetings to the Reverend Jerry Falwell. Education: It woulcl be less expensive to play Space Invaders, non-stop from Orientation to Graduation, than to attend Union for one year. Which is the better educational value? Let the buyer beware. Politics: While $9900 will probably not be sufficient for a serious presidential campaign, it is enough to cause the resignation of exactly 9.9 National Security Advisors. Governments have fallen for less. While I'm sure we are getting a better education now than we might have one hundred and forty years ago, Chester Arthur certainly didn't have to scrape together $9900 each year ... and he became president. Where's my guarantee? With rising inflation and . declining federal aid to higher education, I wonder to what lengths the school may have to go in order to maintain Union's high standards. Will we someday see Joe Garagiola standing in front of the Nott, waving his arms and en- couraging us to \get a diploma- get a check! \? Chess Team Defeated By PAUL GIRSDANSKY Staff The Union College Chess Team was defeated by the narrow margin of one point in its 4 to 3 loss to Albany State on Mottday Night. The Dutchmen put up a good fight, even though there were no cheerleaders. The team from Union also was hampered because time limitations had prevented It from doing its usual pre-match calesthentics. Winning their games for Union were Ivan ''The Terrible\ Gjaja, W on first board, Wade \Hit Man\ Goldman on board two, and Richard \Alcatraz\ Blegen. Other ·players for Union were Paul \Brucelosis\ Girsdansky on third board, Lee \Morrior Maestro\ Glickman on board four, Tom \Terrific\ Hiel;>el, and \Killer\ Craig Megathlin. Perhaps the most .exciting game was on board two with Hit Man Goldman playing SUNYA's Steve Romero. Romero ran into sel\'ious time trouble and was in a position to have to make sixteen moves in five minutes. Goldman ex- ploited his opponents weakness and further comp'licated the game, forcing Romero to go overtime on his thirty- second move. . The Union 'College Chess Team is drawn wholly from members of the Union College Chess Club, which meets every Wednesday night in the fourth floor conference room in Carnegie Hall. The Club has twenty active members, plus others who show up on an oc- casional basis. The Club is set up on an in- formal basis. Lee Glickman serves as Executive Officer, with the able help of Hit Man Goldman. One of the favorite pursuits that the Club has is Speed Chess. In Speed Chess, each player must make all of his moves within five minutes. If the involved players are truly on the verge of emotional in- stability, they can reduce the alloted time to two minutes . Speed Chess makes the game more competitive, as it tends to narrow the differences between the Good, the Bad and the Ugly. The Chess Club also is an- nouncing that try-outs will be held for the Check-mates, the Chess Club's cheerleading squad, next Wednesday. So, if you want to become a jock (well, sort of) or if you want to cheer on Union's Mightiest (well, sort of), come to the next meeting of the Chess Club on Wednesday, March third. The results: UNION Won Gjaja 1 Goldman 1 Girsdansky 0 Glickman 0 Biegen 1 Hiebel 0 Megathlin 0 UNION Niler Romero Coleman Brooks Tice Michaelis Zeban SUNY A Albany State 3

.. ' Page 8 . CONOORDIENSIS, February. i'-5, 198~ - ' . ' ' ' \ < ' •• ' • ' • • I ' • ' < ~ ~ ' • ' • ' • • ' ' ' I ,• ! features Humor: More Spring Offerings By THOMAS CHING Staff Consult with Faculty Advisors during the five days of February 22-26. Some depart- ments may announce special me€tings, hours or a.rr angements for advising students; please be alert for such announcements. Submit completed forms to the Office of the Unregistered not later than Mondah, March 1. A $10.00 LATE FEE WILL BE ASSESSED THEREAFTER! Department of Sociology 213. Introduction to Social Parasitism (X; Spring; Chomas Thing). An examination of the formal and informal organizational framework involved in suc- ceeding in life without really putting in that much effort. Emphasis is placed on the art of smooching, beating the IRS, living off friends and relatives for the rest of your life among others. (Registration by ap- plication filed during winter term and permission from the professor.) 214 Internship to Apathy (B.S.; Spring, Summer, Fall and Winter; Union College Student Body). This course will examine the social, physical and technical forces that affect the ways by which students shape their residential environments. Relevant research on apathy, indifference, isolation and aloofness will be discussed. Course cancelled because of lack of interest. Department of Mathematics 15. Balancing Your Check- book (X; SPRING: Dave Stokhome) This course is designed to enable the student to develop the ability to understand and actually balance their fihances. As taught by the nation's eminent financial mathematician who encourages the art of deficit spending, cuts in the humanities, the arts and · financial needs of students in favor of increased defense spending. Not open to readers and reporters of THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY. ;Department of the Arts 13. Introduction to Kulture in Amerika (B.S.; Spring; Miss Piggy and the Kinks). . Analysis and evaluation of the cultural offerings in the American society. An examination of the intellectual intentions behind the writers' and producers' creativity, the nature of their imagination, and their process of decomposition. Works to be analyzed include: The Brady Bunch to Laverne & Shirley, Harlequin novels to Judith Krantz's Princess Daisy, People Magazine to The National Enquirer. Department of History 21. History & Society: The Emergence of the Nouveau Gauche in Long Island (X; Spring & Fall; Hank Schneider) An introduction to the basic concepts and perspectives of nouveau gaucheness, including . a survey of major social in- stitutions (Bloomies), the social aspects of personality (snob- bery) and the social etiquettes (materialism). Open to students who have the following: 1) socks by Halston, 2) chocolates designed by Bill Blass for Godiva, 3) han- dkerchiefs by Givenchy. 29. History & Society: The Modernization and Growth of the Materialistic Society in Long Island (X; Spring & Fall; Hank Schneider) see H21, substitute materialism for gaucheness. Only open to students who want the following: 1) socks by Halston, 2) chocolates designed by Bill Blass for Godiva, 3) han- dkerchiefs by Givenchy. Department of Astronomy 172. Ecological Awarenes~ (X; Fall, James What l On the structure and in- tegration of ecosystems, ·ap- propriate for Big Businesses who are interested in ex- ploitation of public land, water, and air. Department of Physical Fitness 29. Introduction to Dieting in Scarsdale (X; Spring; Gene Harris) An inquiry into the moral choices and responsibility of nutritionists in light of recent findings of rebellion among their patients and amours. The course will also focus on the options available to dieters who disagree with their dietary regimes imposed upon them by these nutritionists. Prerequisites: 10 years to life sentence. 33. Internship in Luquor Consumption (X; Spring; D. Runken and S. Mashed) A study of the origins and development of American youths under the corrupt in- fluence and their reaction to: Budweiser, Michelob, Piels, Coors, and Heineken. Class postponed due to lack of in- terest. Union Term Abroad El Salvador--The most popular and extensive of the College's formal arrangements for foreign study. In general, the college sends only one naive student each year. At the El Salvador Hollclay Inn, the student will be able to ex- perience a Civil War, mass confusion among the populace, and participate with armed American \advisors.\ New Jersey-Established in 1982, is an honor exchange program, entered on the recipient's record. The ex- change will focus on the social aspects of this much abused state as well as participate in the search for the N.J. Giants. In addition, the student will have the opportunity to par- ticipate in the decadence of Atlantic City and Great Adventure. CHI PSI Sat., Feb. 27 Come to the Races! Tickets $1 in Advance $2 at the Door I I ' fun for all . --.... POST TIME 10:00 Thorobred racing • on film ' Free Beer & Punch Shot Bar- Tax Questions- And Answers.' The following Questions and Answers for students were prepared :by the Internal Revenue Service. Q: How much money can a student make before he or she has to .pay taxes? A: Under the tax: law, a student is treated the same as any other single person, a,nd can earn up to ~,300 before he or she has to pay income tax. Social S'ecurity (FICA) is withheld on any amount of income and is not refundable. Q: My parents are claiming me on their tax: return. Can I still claim myself? A: Yes. This is. one area in which students and their families, receive a \break.\ If you meet all five dependency tests, your parents may claim you as a dependent on their tax return and you also receive an exemptioll for yourself on your return. Q: I had several jobs during the year and I haven't received all my W-2's. What should I do? A: Employers had until February 1 to send you a W-2. If you still· haven't received your W-2, contact your employer. Many times students have moved and the employer doesn't have a current address. If you still don't receive a W-2 within a reasonable period of time, contact the IRS. Q: I receive a scholarship (or fellowship) grant. Is it taxable? A: If you receive a scholar• ship or fellowship, you may exclude the amount from your income, subject to certain limitations. The money you receive must be primarily- for furthering your education and cannot be compensation for past, present or fu1ure services. Generally, money received under a work-study program is taxable, unless all students of the college are required to participate in ·a .work-study program.~ For more specific information, ask the IRS for free Publication 525 \Taxable and Nontaxable Income.\ Q: I'm a full time student and my spouse works. We pay a day care center for watching our child during the day. Can we claim anycredity forthe money we pay for child care? A: Assuming that certain conditions are met, yes. If one spouse works and the other is a full-time student for at least five calendar months during the tax year, child eare expenses that allow the working spouse to be employed will qualify as child care eJCpenses. For more in- formation on the Child Care Credit, ask the IRS for free Publication 503, \Child and Disabled Dependent Care.\ Q': What can I do to be sure my refund gets to me as soon as possible? A: Filing your tax return as early as possible during the filing season may mean a wait of only four to five weeks for your refund. Filing in April will mean a longer wait. Using the peel-off label from your tax: package speeds the .processing of your refund. Double-check your math-errors cause delays. Q: I'm taking a course to help . me in my job. Are my tuition costs deductible? A: Generally you may deduct expenses for education that is required by your employer or necessary to maintain or im- prove your present job or salary. You may not deduct expenses incurred for education which is required of you to meet the minimum educational requirements in your trade or business, or for education which is part of a program that will qualify you in a new trade or business. Q: I'm taking a course to help me improve the skills I need in my present job. I'm also receiving educational benefits from the Veterans Administration. What about me? - A: If your expenses for education are directly reim- bursed by the Veterans Administration, you must reduce the deductible educational expenses by the reimbursement. However, if the payment is a living stipend determined without regard to amounts spent for education, you do not have to reduce the deductible educational ex- -penses by the payments from the Veterans Administration. Q: I work during the day and go to school at night. I know the educational expenses are deductible. What about my transportation costs? A: You may deduct tran- sportation expenses for qualified educational activities that you incur in going between your place of employment and the school. The deduction is computed at 20 cents a mile and can be claimed as an ad- justment to income even if you don't itemize your deductions. For more information on any tax subject, call the IRS (toll- free) .at 1-800-343-9000, Mon.- Fri., 8:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m. (To insure quality service, about one percent of these calls are monitored by a second IRS employee.) If you just need forms or publications, call {toll- free) 1-800-225-0717, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. . ll Del If ts 11C1 0 till 110 110 b D ti Dtl 01 GO GO II 00 00 lUI 00 00 OG 0 ~ 109· Days Until .Graduation! u QA 0 R 0 QQ OUUR AR QfUOARRRIAAAR A RIP RAOQ 0001

sure n as the wait for will the tax help duct is or im- or duct e or will e or help in also efits bout for the the to the ex- and the are my for ities and is and ad- you any (To bout are IRS a 'Mugger Slugger' Brings Tears To Their ,Eyes CPS-While waiting in .registration lines this semester, women on many campuses got brochures extollin·g tlie defensive virtues ·of carrying a canister of tear gas around. And so the strange new boom \ in buying personal tear gas weapons. has come to college, not too long ago a place where fear of crime and suspicion were rare. I In fact, the · boom arrived during the last academic year, when ChemShield started aggressively passing out its promotional brochures· on campuses. Other brands sell well, too. Campus sales of \Mugger Slugger\ are \brisk according to Mike Sheffield of the firm that makes it. The canisters themselves are pressurized containers of tear gas. Spray some on an attacker, the brochures say, and the attacker will experience,. diz- ziness, nausea and suffocation. The agony will last up. to 30 minutes, long enough for the victim to escape. The reasons for the canisters' popularity among coUege women aren't obscure. Ron Weesis of the Michigan State ACROSS 1 Metal alloy 6 Lift 11 Tell 13 Dried grape 14 King of Bash an 15 Famed \Cowboy\ 17 State: Abbr 18 Treaty gp. 20 Part 21 As1an holi- day 22 Clock face 24 Greek letter ifi Afr1c.an r1ver ;:p fr,fhu',,asm 10 Path 12 Spmt 33 Perfume(! omtment 2 Recover 3 Morind1n dye 4 MournfLJI 5 Halt 6 Evaluate 7 River island 8 Exists 9 Qu1et 10 Growing out of 12 Great Lake 13 Sums up 16 Deposits 19 Seamen 21 Sartors 23 South Amen- can an1ma1 25 Shoe!< 27 Alfonso s mate 29 Greek 1sland - ... 31 Redactor 33 Separated 34 Short Jacket University campus police says women buy the canisters mostly because the state legislature finally legalized them. There has been no recent crime wave in East Lansing that might have triggered a buying spree of defensive weapons. But there is suspicion: \You just don't know who's sitting in class with you,\ notes Paula Rogers-Campbell, an MSU education major who is also a ChemShield area dealer . Campus law enforcement officials around the country often admit one of their worst problems is demonstrating that their own anti-crime tactics are credible deterrents. Students have consequently taken matters into their own hands on many campuses. Arizona State students opened a rape hotline last spring. Indiana University students funded their own Women's Wheels program, an escort service. But just as often the student prevention services and schemes soon die of neglect. Student government at the University of Maryland reacted to two spring, 1980, rapes by spending $1,200 on rape CROSS WORD PUZZLE FROM COLLEGE PRESS SERVICE ____________ ..J 36 An1mals 37 Harmony 39 Cut 41 Unsteady 43 Awry 44 Lampreys 47 Pac.·s oppo- Site 48 Ocean 51 N1ckel sym- bol 53 While whistles, but .few campus women bothered to pick them up. Subsequently, two rape prevention classes on the campus were cancelled for lack of atendance. Most tear gas distributors conscientiously avoid touting the canisters as initial defenses, but do claim the products ·can prevent a rape. ''I think it gives a person an alternative to the use of deadly force, that is, a gun,\ agrees Phil Finger of the Univ:ersity of California- Berkeley police department. · The debate over the canisters' effectiveness, however, is heated. Judith Strasma, a counselor for _Rape Crisis in Madison, Wisconsin, dismisses the phenomenon as \a new way to make money-.\ ''My personal feeling is that any weapon is inadvisable because it can be turned against the woman who ca~ries it,\ Strasma says. ''It gives women a false sense of security.\ Haney thinks women are better advised to take self- defense courses. Paula Hart- zheim of the Boulder (Co) Rape Crisis Center prefers whistles, though her facility d<les sell a spray. Hartzheim alse claims that using tlle tear gas on an assailant who has been drinking \will make him much more violent.\ Generally, canister manufacturers are reserving their arguments for the spray's effectiveness for their customers. \Our horne office has told us not to talk to newspapers,\ explains Ted Boettcher, a Northbrook, Michigan distributer for ChemShield. ChemShield, in turn is made by a St. L()uis firm called We_ Care America. Boettcher says it's because \we've been misquoted too many times. We want people to carry' these things. They work. Newspapers say they don't work.\ The Prisoner; TV Cult Grows CPS-\Sooo strange, they think it's sooo strange,\ reports Yale student Chris Chen. Fellow students \usually don't say anything as they break for intermission. They look like something traumatic has happened.\ What's happened is the biennial, eight-nighthlong Yale showing of a 1968 television show caUed \The Prisoner.\ At Yale, the series evokes from the audience a cultish chanting \sort of like Rocky Horros (Picture Show), only a little more subtle, less sarcastic,\ Chen says. All told, \Prisoner\ cults have slowly grown on about 20 campuses around the country. Some hold regular showings. Others are led by professors who use the series to help demonstrate social psychology theories. The unlikely object of all the unlikely attention is a 14-year- old, 17-part British television series conceived and produced by its star, Patrick McGoohan. McGoohan plays a British intelligence agent who angrily resigns one day for reasons unknown, and is subsequently abducted from his apartment by persons unknown. They plunk him onto an idyllic little island called The Village, where he's .given every modern con- venience except the freedom or wherewithal to leave. Through the series his captors employ various ingenious methods to discover why the prisoner resigned, but McGoohan - reduced to being called only Number Six: - proves a difficult case. The show is a wonderfully dramatic demonstration of \the contradiction between man's need to form societies, with laws and norms and man's need for individuality and freedom.\ \The Prisoner,\ he adds, makes \students question existing arrangements, things they've always taken for granted.'' Arizona State Prof. Robert Snow, who has also taught a \Prisoner\ course, is now \very committed to this ap- proach.\ Explaining the show manages to portray a social psych theory of symbolic in- teraction, he adds his \students find that rather exciting.\ Yale's Chen, on the other hand, tries \not to take it too seriously. It takes the fun out of it.\ \I have finally started to find a peace within myself, an awareness that I am a person of value and that I should strive and expect to live my life as I please,\ wrote one student in an evaluation of Snow's Arizona State course. \I have always blamed others for my problems, used violence and hurt people,\ wrote another. \I see that I must now take control of myself and like myself before others are going to like me. Violence and hatred are losers.\ Snow reports such life- wrenching reactions aren't atypical among their \Prisoner\ students. He also ascribes to the show powers that can help cure higher education. Not least amont its virtues is \The Prisoner's\ ability to teach students to be closed- mouth. \The 17th (and concluding) episode,\ Chen says, \is the best kept secret on the Yale campus.\ 35 Supercilious one · 37 Brazilian estuary 38 Possess1ve pronoun Drinking Game Injuries 40 Waste allow- ance 42 Oral pauses 43.Make amends 45 Capuchin monkey 46 Near 47 Tortures 49 Mil. police 50 Middle 52 Folds 54 Roman offi- cial 55 Pert DOWN 1 Progeny answer on p. 15 CPS- While many campuses are coping with the ravages of the winter and others desperately try to concoct ways to mitigate their fiscal crises, the University of Iowa is fighting a different kind of problem: a small epidemic of students who have to have quarters removed from their digestive tracts. Over the last six months, Iowa City's University Hospital has treated 15-20 students who had been playing \Quarters a drinking game, according to Dr. Robert ·Hageman. The game, Hageman says, The Campus Store Presents: consists of \a bunch of people sitting round a table drinking beer, and tryint to flig quarters into the mugs. When someone gets a quarter into a beer, he can either drink it or choose someone else who has to. The person elected must chug the beer, and catch the quarter in his teeth.\ Feldick reports an increase in injuries relating to other drinking games among Iowa students during the last two school years. Some students have also been hurt playing a game in which a participatnt lights the alcohol in a drink on fire, and then tries to gulp it down without getting burned. \Quarters\ has caused most of the problems, .according to Hageman. Many people simply pass the quarters, but some - notably smaller, younger, and female students - are physically in- capable of passing them. Hageman worries that some people might start using smaller coins to make the game safer, but warns that \a smaller coin would be the perfect size to lodge in the airway at the back of the throat, and cause death in about 20 seconds.\ Neither Hageman nor Feldick will speculate why there's an increase in the game playing, or in the injuries from it. PEANUTS@ by Charles M. Schulz Hospital spokesman Dean Borg, however, notes, \I asked my son who is in high school about this, and he said 'That's nothing new, and it isn't limited to Iowa.\' \Help! Help! Help! · Help! Help! Help! ' 1 I'LL ADD ANOTHER \Help!; 1 Hang On. Spring· Is Coming I

Page 10 OONOOBDIENSIS, February !5, 198! <Editorials Arts Askew For the next week and a half, The Macbeth Project will be presented by the Arts Department. While the play is much anticipated and promises to be an entertaining event, some decisions surrounding the project must be questioned. The first and most obvious of these decisions to be questioned is the pre-casting of alumnus George Siletzky to the lead (see article p. 1). It is not the in- tention of this editorial to question the artistic abilities of either Mr. SUetzky or Professor Smith, but rather to examine decisions that were made that affect us all. Realistically, Union's theate.r depart·ment is microscopic, but that does not prevent those studen.ts interested in theater from producing mammoth productions like last year's Working which sold out and was a critical success as welL Why, then, .should the Arts Department choose to obtain outside talent for a production? The theater department, such as it is, is by and for students. Why, then, should the lead for a production as potentially exciting as Macbeth be pre-cast? Professor Smith claims that there's ''no way\ any Union student could play Macbeth. How could he know that before tryouts? Hasn't the role been changed to make it less of an \actor's headache\? If the role is still too hard for Union students, why must Macbeth be done at all; shouldn't · another work have been chosen? Professor Smith seems to feel that the main gripe is with the money that is being paid to Mr. Siletzky to play the part. The money is not the point at all. Professor Smith, by his own admission, is committed to \letting students learn the artistic process.\ It would seem, however, that having non-students in a student production contradicts ·that statement. The Arts Department must decide what it wants to provide students with here at Union. If that includes allowing students to observe a non-student actor attempting a near~impossible role, there's no problem with The Macbeth Project. If, h.owever, Union Theater will provide students with a \do-able\ project, and a chance to be one of the \stars then the decisions made by the Arts Department must be questioned. 'Yeas and Nays' Student Forum has undergone yet another change. In the past, Forum members cast their votes as a group with the totals in favor, opposed, and ab- stentions noted as such. This, however, will no longer be the case. ln the future, votes will be tallied in a \roll-call\ fashton. This procedure will clearly note the way in which individual members vote each time decisions are made. This alteration will hopefully enhance the present process. Once the new process is put into effect, each and every vote cast Will be made a matter of public record. This will improve the present situation in a variety of ways. Publication of each vote will con- tinually force each member to make responsible decisions. They may no longer hide behind a majority number. They must continue to vote with their con- sciences as the representatives of those who elected them. Voting members of the student government must be prepared to take responsibility for their actions as individuals, especially now that their in~ dividual decisions will be made known. The public record will now show who the minority \dissenters\ are. This is an important point, for the student should feel free to question and understand the minority viewpoint. Until now, these individuals remained anonymous. This new procedure will also enable the student body to follow the voting record of its respective representatives. This is an im- provement, for students have the right to see how · their elected officials are making decisions. Forum members must remain personally ac- countable for their decisions. The occasional publication of these actions adds to the nec.essary information regarding the Student Forum's decision- making process. In addition, when particular issues warrant it, Ooncordiensis will publish the voting record of the Forum, thus keeping the campus community informed. The Student Forum hopes to place these results in a display case regularly. Should this occur, the student body would gain a better awareness of the actions of their elected officials. I 'All letters to the Editor must be ' type·d and in the / Con·cordy oHice by 7 p.m .• Tu.esday ov\t\~PtD IN' /fJJ • . ~ld «:oncor tL~\ ': bitnsts 0 '·~~ Q ~c-~l L ,~. Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor Managing Editor News Editor Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors 1 Ntcu.v\ · PaulGrossman, NaomiBlank Rachel I. Mandel Diane Pavacic A.J. Brodsky Ju<U LeeGnervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner Cppy Editor D.C. Owens Sports Editors Drew H'urley, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Rick Sapir Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen. Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher Staff Julie Abelman, Joey Beckennan, Norman Birnbach, Sue Bloomberg, Marcy Bw-stiner, 'lbomas Ching, Megan Cummings-Saxton, Robert S. Driscoll, Tim Emswiler, David Fitzgerald, Sharon Feldman, Donna Getson, P.S. Girsdansky, Leisel Golden, Mike Hunt, Susan Kone, Debroah·Levine, Tom Megerian, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Jennifer Paston, Brian Quint, Daniel Rosenfield, Martin Sands, E.J. Sapir, Michael Sharp, Andrew Sobel, Joel Stein, Judie.Steinhardt, Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne Business Staff Jennifer Amler, Maryann Gagliardi, Evelyn Gmdin Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris III, Chris Eshehnan · Photo Staff Janet Guiliano · CON<:;OltDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class ~atter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United .States. · CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). :-·- ~ il ' n JJ) !;tl 's' () t 'f :b 'tl b ll a b a a f \1 u v e n p ti n t 1l n a fl Il ( f F t F r F a s {) Il ]! d ( c

Page 10 CONOORDIENSISJ February ~5) 1982 Editorials Letters Arts Askew For the next week and a half, The Macbeth Project will be presented by the Arts Department. While the play is much anticipated and promises to be an entertaining event, some decisions surrounding the project must be questioned. The .first and most obvious of these decisions to be questioned is the pre-casting of alumnus George Siletzky to the lead (see article p. 1). It l:s not the in- tention of this editorial to question the artistic abilities of eitherMr. SUetzky or Professor Smith, but rather to examine decisions that were made that affect us all. Realistically, Union's theater department is microscopic, but that does not prevent those studen_ts interested in theater from producing mammoth productions like last year's Working which sold out and was a critical success as well. Why, then, should the Arts Department choose to obtain outside talent for a production'? The theater department, such as it is, is by and for students. Why, then, should the lead for a production as potentially exciting as Macbeth be pre-cast? Professor Smith claims that there's \no way'' any Union student could play Macbeth. How could he know that before tryouts? Hasn't the role been changed to make it less of an \actor's headache\? If the role is still too hard for Union students, why must Macbeth be done at all; shouldn't another work have been chosen? Professor Smith seems to feel that the main gripe is with the money that is being paid to Mr. Siletzky to play the part. The money is not the point at all. Professor Smith, by his own admission, is committed to \letting students learn the artistic process.\ It would seem, however, that having non-students in a student production contradicts that statement. The Arts Department must decide what it wants to provide students with here at Union. If that includes allowing students to observe a non-student actor attempting a near-impossible role, there's no problem with The Macbeth Project. If, however, Union Theater will provide students with a \do-able\ project, and a chance to be one of the ·'stars,\ then the decisions made by the Arts Department must be questioned. •veas and Nays' Student Forum has undergone yet another change. In the past, Forum members cast their votes as a group with the totals in favor, opposed, and ab- stentions noted as such. This, however, will no longer be the case. In the future, votes will be tallied in a \roll-call\ fashion. This procedure will clearly note the way in which individual members vote each time decisions are made. This alteration will hopefully enhance the present process. Once the new process is put into effect, each and every vote cast will be made a matter of public record. This will improve the present situation in a variety of ways. Publication of each vote will con- tinually force each member to make responsible decisions. They may no longer hide behind a majority number. They must continue to vote with their con- sciences as the representatives of those who elected them. Voting members of the student government must be prepared to take responsibility for their actions as individuals, especially now that their in- dividual decisions will be made known. The public record will now show who the minority \dissenters\ are. This is an important point, for the student should feel free to question and understand the minority viewpoint. Until now, these individuals remained anonymous. This new procedure will also enable the student body to follow the voting record of its respective representatives. This is an im- provement, for students have the right to see how their elected officials are making decisions. Forum members must remain personally ac- countable for their decisions. The occasional publication of these actions adds to the necessary information regarding the Student Forum's decision- making process. In addition, when particular issues warrant it, C'oncordiensis will publish the voting record of the Forum, thus keeping the campus community informed. The Student Forum hopes to place these results in a display case regularly. Should this occur, the student body would gain a better awareness of the actions of their elected officials. Professor Expresses Outrage To the Editor: To start off. I am outraged at the near*rape that occurred last fall, in which members from one of Union's fraternities assaulted a young woman in an apartment off~campus. This was violence against women in one of its most vicious forms. There is no excuse for it anywhere in the world, and 1 simply cannot allow it to pass unnoticed here where I work. The college may allow it to remain unpublicized, but I won't. Secondly, I am disappointed in the Concordiensis: it publishes a CPS artide on \Debbie Does Dallas,\ that . barely mentions how the film \reinforces violence and abuse of women,\ but it has not said a word about the real violence against women that occurs at Union. been · t~ught . ···~·······. S,¢~09lt, ~; abundant representation of pre- evolution sentiment in the audience indicated· that Mr. Sunderland ·was correct in·· his feelings, and justified in his insistence on mnre time. A more importantunelarity in the article, though, was the insinuation tl1at Mr. Sunderland was funded by religious organizations. While the article ineluded Mr~ ZindlerJs com~ ment that his slides were not as well done because he taeceiv~d uo such funding, it did not report the fact that Mr. Sun- derland also ~bsolutely denied receiving any such funding. While the article included no falsehoodB, it failed to p-resent a clear picture Gf the truth. It is not our intention t<l defend Mr. Sunderland's views. We merely think that it is only fair that both of the speakers who appeared at our presen .. tation receive even-handed and clear publicity. Thank you, Dan Ryan Karen Norton ;M;o:t'i!an). &f, St d · t . .. ,u en Explained T() the Editors of Contordiensis and the Student Forum: This letter is to infnrm you and the student - body of my resignation as the Union University Student Representative for Union Ccllege. Several months ago, I volunteered my services to represent the school in an effort to enhance cooperation among our associated colleges in the University system: Albany Medical, Albany Law School, Albany School of Pharmacy, and , Dudley Obse!\Vatory. I was informed upon my application that tny respon· si bilities included ·my par· tiCipation with other University representatives at meetings to be held in Albany. Unfor- tunately, to carry out those responsibilities one must be provided with certain essential How will things change unless .----------------------.......1 the facade is torn down? Linda E. Patrik Philosophy Department Editor's note: The lead article of the last issue of last term was titled \Fear of Assault\ and dealt specifically with the difficulties in handling ''rumored'' assault cases. The incident that you refer to was disc~sed to the extent that we felt necessary and to the extent that we were able. The CPS article that was · referred to was also run in no · · less than six 'lleighboring college newspapers. We did, . and still do, stand by its content. All letters to the Editor must be typed and in the Concordy oHice by 7 p.m., Tuesday It was not meant ·to be an . ----------------------- editorial of the issue of por- nography. The teas on that . Concordy did not write an editorial was because the movie was well received on campus · and did not seem to be a major issue here. An article should merely present facts and all sides of an issue, and then let the reader decide. Article Clarified To the Editors: This letter pertains to last week's article about the Intellectual Cabaret ofMonday, February 15. As Co--Chairs of the Intellectual Cabaret Committee, we were pleased to receive front page publicity for our eyent. We feel, though, that · the article leaves a couple of itmes unclear, and we would· like to clarify them. The article points out the . difference in time granted to each of the participants, and mentions that ''Sunderland would not appear unless he received more time to speak than his oJ)ponent. '' While this in fact true, it fails to give the explanation for his insistence on . more time. His reason was that he needed more time to present his view of Abrupt Appearan- · ces, which was new to the audience, than his opponent needed to present a case for · evolutiony which is what the •members of the audience have Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor Managing Editor News Editor ·Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors Paul Grossman, Naomi Blank Rachel I. Mandel Diane Pavacic A.J. Brodsky J ua1 Lee cnervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner Copy Editor D.C. Owens Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Rick Sapir Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher Staff Julie Abehnan, Joey Beckerman, Norman Birnbach, Sue Bloomberg, Marcy Burstiner, Thomas Ching, Megan Cummings-saxton, RobertS. Driscoll, Tim Emswiler, David Fitzgerald, Sharon Feldman, Donna Getson, P.S. Girsdansky, Leisel Golden, Mike Hunt, Susan Kone, Debroah Levine, Tom Megerian, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Jennifer Paston, Brian Quint, Daniel Rosenfield, Martin Sands, E.J. Sapir, Michael Sharp, Andrew Sobel, Joel Stein, Judie Steinhardt, Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne Business Staff Jennifer Arnler, Maryann Gagliardi, Evelyn Gurdin Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris III, Chris Eshelman Photo Staff Janet Guiliano CON~ORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). in .m n~ ta sc or UJ Fe · he in bE la ar be a~ af Hi ur V( ef ne pr ti< nc Ul m ne ar fo rE F 8J st or pi le di c ' L, '\ II· •) It: Jr IT tr ,., ( \\ a d S1 h a tl F

;:·;:: fM ' . ~4 l .. Commentary: OONOORDIEN$18, February !5, 1982 Page 11 L~tters Editorials Commentar.y: Is the Moral MajOrity Moral? By NORMAN BmNBACH Staff \How moral is the Moral Majority?'' is not asked in response to Johnny Carson's remarking that, \I just saw the Moral Majority and boy are they moral!\ There's no one- liner for that, so you won't hear Ed laug,hing in the background. In fact, you won't hear any laughter. It's a serious question: Exactly how moral is the . ·Moral Majority? Apparently, the answer is-very moral. After aU, all of its leaders are reverends. But that doesn't mean they're always reverent to concerns other than their own. And that brings up an in- teresting question: What are the goals of the Moral Majority? The obvious answer is that they want a moral America. And that shouldn't be too difficult to achieve; after all, according to their name, the majority of America is moral. And that brings up another question: Are the majority of Americans really moral? If so, why is there such an organization? If most of America is moral, it only follows that th~ country must be moral. If there is a need for the Moral Majority, even though most Americans are moral, they must h<!Ve the wrong morals. And that poses yet another in a series of questions: Whose morality is the Moral Majority trying to protect? That's a lot of questions, don't you think? What I'll do is an- swer them in reverse order. Yes, that is a lot of questions, but if you're going to deal with the Moral Majority then you'll have to deal with the valid questions that come up. The morality the Moral Majority is trying to protect-if you're a Fundamentalist Christian-is your morality, as they see it, and as they see fit. And if there is a need for the Moral Majority that's only because most Americans aren't Funadmentalist Christians, and so, aren't moral, as defined by the Moral Majority. But fear not, the Moral Majority is crusading to set us on the right path again, by making sure we'r_e righteous. And that's a good thing. After all, Sodom and Gomorrah weren't destrayed because they were in the way of a highway project. 1t would be nice if everyone were nice. Widows and orphans would have a much easier time if people weren't trying to swindle them; if everyone were moral; but not everyone is. So the problem becomes this: In an amoral society, how do you get people to become moral? Do you censure what they read, what they watch? Is that the right way to go about things? According to the Moral Majority, that is the way. The way they began doing so was by boycotting the companies who have commercials during \questionable\ shows. These shows, such as \Three's Company,\ were deemed bad and evil. The thought was that the companies would back down under the pressure and take away their commercials; this -would scare off other ad- vertisers so that a particular show would be unsponsored, and thus, be taken off the air. It's as simple as that. freedom of beliefs, not the freedom to believe as .a vocal minority would have us believe~ And that's where the danger comes in. A minority wants to control the majority. F'rotn what I remember from my lOth .grade American history class, that's not a democracy. An example: the Moral Majority is against abortions, so they're trying to make it so that no one can have an abor- tion. Their reason, which they have put into a scientific framework, is something that scientists cannot verify-when life begins. With the Hyde Bill, they know when life hegins. And right now, there are bitter confrontations in collrls, which they're winning because Commentary: everyone is intimidated by them. While the Moral Majority dido 't go through with its television boycott, Procter & Gamble and others did back down, and have refused to advertise shows that made the Moral Majority's immoral list. This is without there even being a boycott! So, how moral is the Moral Majority? In some ways, they're very moral. In other ways, they're not as moral They've bastardized the Golden Rule. Instead of doing unto others as you would have others do unto you, the Moral Majority does unto others, so that others cannot do unto them. That's the moral of this article. El Salvador- A Decision By DANIEL ROSENFIELD Columnist The US must therefore support the existing government, shabby as it may be. Jdeally, the government troops would fight the rebels. The United States would supply only material and perhaps some advice. Eventually, the battle would be won by the govern- ment, who would be indebted to the United States; the United States would keep their nose clean and all would be well. Why Law School?· Now the question is just because a television show is questionable, just because the show doesn't go along with your views, does that mean it's evil or bad? All art presents values. Should we accept only those that present vaJues we agree with? Once again, democracy must fight to keep that arch villain, communism from seeping further into the Western Hemisphere. The country at stake is El Savadore. The government in El Salvadore is inefficient, corrupt, and by our standards somewhat brutal; but is not communist. The rebels, who claim to be fighting for the people (though the people do not seem to agree) are apparently communist trained and backed. Sources in Washington indicate that there is little doubt as to the political affiliation of the rebels or of their source of supply and training. Problem: the fighting has started and the rebels are trained, the government troops are not. What to do? Well, what has been done is to bring some of El Salvador's military ad- visors over to the United States for training and to send American military advisors to train troops in the field. But American advisors should not be allowed near battle zones. By MARTIN SANDS Columnist Believe it or not, lawyers in our society have become a dime a dozen. Many students today regard law school as an extension of their undergraduate education and I believe that this is foolish. Accordingly, it seems ludicrous for peopl~ to attend law school but not practice law. The path of law school should be pursued only by those who sincerely desire to practice law, with an its responsibilities and limitations. Unfortunately, most students do not take this into consideration and as a result thete have recently been a great deal of confused, un- motivated, unemployed at· torneys in the job market. In the past five years, the idea of law school as a graduate course of study has become very important. Consequently, competition for getting into law school has become keen. A national survey taken in ll.!ovember of 1981 stated that approximately 20 percent of the students graduating with a four- Ye~r college degree are pur- SUing an education in law school. This large percentage of college graduates in over ... Whelming the legal profession, a~d the present society. As a d1rect result, the top 20 law s?hools are requiring extremely htgh law board scores and above average G.P.A.'s before ~ey even review _applications. urthermore, those that are accepted must study vigorously for 3 years in order to get a job. Unfortunately, jobs, even for the top scholars, have been scarce. Personally, I can recall -- countless experiences with fellow students in which various comments about law school were mentioned. Much to my dismay, the response of many students plimning to attend law school has been, \Why not?\ or \I don't feel like looking for a real job yet,\ or \I don't know what I want to do so I guess I will go to law school,\ or the popular \What the hell, business or law school, it will make Dad proud.\ Insecurity seems to be at the core of these feeble reasons for desiring a law degree. In addition, those who are hiding behind the gates of law school should realize that it only postpones facing the real world for 3 years. It is my opinion that one should not hesitate to go to law school if one sincerely desires to practice law. However, the. market is overflowing with unemployed attorneys and if one is questionable about the legal profession I suggest that one should take a -serious look into the current legal situation before spending over $30,000 and 3 years of intensive study. Hence, it is my contention that more students should re- evaluate the present legal profession and its opportunities before blindly applying to law school . On \Three's Company\ there are good looking girls who are on, pretty much, for the sake of being good looking. At least none of them are nude, but Rubens and other painters glorified nudes. Does that mean a boycott of art is imminent? And what of t.v. news, with its \weather girls\ whose sole talents can only be seen to be believed. What does that leave you with? Television sports are violent, so they have to go. And the Top Stories of the Night are often very gory stories. What does that leave you with? Do you have Mr. Rogers anchor the news with Captain Kangaroo? Taking \Three's Company\ off the air though, doesn't mean that people will turn on \Little House on the Prairie.\ All it means is that people won't be able to decide whether or not they want to watch \Three's Company.\ There will i:)e a virtuous television schedule, but the people won't necessarily be more moral. And that brings up the moral question. The problem with trying to get people to be moral is whether the Moral Majority has a right to do so. What the Moral Majority wants to do is make all those who don't share their beliefs share their morals, whether we like it or not. That's not fair. They have a right to have their morals, but not the right to impose them on others. The country was founded on the The champion of democracy, the United States of America, is involved in El Salvador. Many have cried horrors - another Vietnam! Well, by all means, let's not get involved; I do not want my younger brother to be in El Salvador either. Then again, why not consider the situation; after aU, nothing has happened yet and there is time to think. The United States has good reason to be concerned. El Salvador is relatively close to the United States. Further, the situation in El Salvador represents a potential spread of Soviet influence in the Western Hemisphere. Which side should we sup· port? The government may be horrid but better than the rebels. Lest you the reader become mildly disenchanted with my point of view and greatly confused as to my moral and political outlook, let me elucidate: I do not advocate the support of corrupt regimes. However, the rebels will be just as rotten and they will be under the influence of Soviet Russia. A source in Washington has suggested a neat solution to the problem: blockade Cuba, the source for the guerrilla forces. Not only would this move make the battle easier for the government but it would demonstrate to the world that the United States would not tolerate any Soviet aggression in El Salvador. The Soviets would not risk a war over El Salvador. Aside from the fact that there is little for them to gain in El Salvador, the Soviets don't operate that way. They would simply shrug their shoulders and wait. Time is the Russians' ally, or so they think. Cuba would not attack the United States Navy. It might have been a safe bet under Carter, but with Reagan in the Oval Office, it might prove foolish. As for the issue of the advisor with the rifle in the battle zone, the weapon makes no dif· ference. It is the official that is the risk. Concordy Positions Available Call the office at 6155

' . . meetings· were' to be heldJ · the namesv.()t;.•tll~'l'iJthetL' v~p~f$M .. ·· t · · ·· · · ·· .tbe/ ta. ., .... , ... ,. •. schoo then· · ordinator · of · the Union University Representative Forum. Since last term l have been unable·· to obtain such . information. My attempts have been further frustrated by the lack of cooperation~ concern, .and negligence ~f our student body President~ Weldon Turner. On several occasions, ·y have asked Turner for the aforemenUoned information. His responses 1o aU questions · were both inadequate and uninformative. It seems to me that in· volvement in such a cooperative effart has been deemed un· necessary by our student body president based upon his ac~ tions. I wish to remind you that our non*participation in the Union University Forum is not due to • my lack ·of initiation, but one needs to know where to start, and be Sttpp()rted tn one's ef· ·forts. Consequently, I hereby tender my resignation as the Union College Unive.rsity Representative to the Union . University Representative Forum. Many of our collegets elected representatives ta Student · Forum criticize tbelevel of apthy exhibited by the overall student body.By l<Joking inward one may find that part of the problem is due to uninspired leadership. I hcpe such con- ditions will be rectified. . Respedfully submitted, Tracy Hoffman •33 Commentary: OON(]ORDIENSlS, February ~5, 198~ Page 11 Letters Editorials Commentar.r: Is the Moral Majority Moral? By NORMAN BIRNBACH Staff \How moral is the Moral Majority?\ is not asked in response to Johnny Carson's remarking that, \I just saw the Moral Majority and boy are they moral!'' There's no one- liner for that, se you won't hear Ed laughing in the background. In fact, you won't hear any laughter. It's a serious question: Exactly how moral is the Moral Majority? Apparently, the answer is-very moral. After all, all of its leaders are reverends. But that doesn't mean they're always reverent to concerns other than their own. And that brings up an in- teresting question: What are the goals of the Moral Majority? The obvious aBswer is that they want a moral America. And that shouldn't be too difficult to achieve; after all, according to their name, the majority of America is moral. And that brings up another question: Are the majority of Americans really moral? If so, why is there such an organization? If most of America is moral, it only follows that the country must be moral. If there is a need for the Moral Majority, even thOugh most Americans are moral, they must have the wrong morals. And that poses yet another in a series of questions: Whose morality is the Moral Majority trying to protect? That's a lot of questions, don't you think? What I'll do is an- swer them in reverse order. Yes, that is a lot of questions, but if you're going to deal with the Moral Majority then you'll have to deal with the valid q u.estions that coffle up. The morality the Moral Majority is trying to protect-if you're a Fundamentalist Christian-is your morality, as they see it, and as they see fit And if there is a need for the Moral Majority that's only l>eeause most Americans aren't Funadrnentalist Christians, and so, aren't moral, as defined by the Moral Majority. But fear not, the Moral Majority is erusading to set us on the right path again, by making sure we're righteous. And that's a good thing. After all, Sodom and Gomorrah weren't destroyed l>ecause they were in the way of a highway pnject. It would be nice if everyone were nice. Widows and orphans would have a much easier time if people weren't trying to swindle them; if everyone were moral, but not everyone is. So the problem becomes this: In an amoral society, ho'W dG you get people to become moral? Do you censure what they read, what they watch? Is that the right way to go about things? According to the Moral Majority, that is the way. The way they began doing so was by l>oycotting the companies who have commercials during \questionable\ shews. These shows, such as \Three's Company,\ were deemed bad and evil. The thought was that the companies would back down under the pressure and take away their commercials; this would scare off other ad- vertisers so that a particular show would h.e unsponsored, and thus, be taken off the air. It's as simple as that. freedom of beliefs, not the freedom to believe as a vocai minority would have us believe. And that's where the danger comes in. A minority wants to control the majority. From what I remember from my lOth grade American history class, that's not a democracy. An example: the Moral Majority is against abortions, so they're trying to make it so that no one can have an abor- tion. Their reason, which they have put into a scientific framework, is something that scientists cannot verify-when life begins. With the Hyde Bill, they know when life begins. And right now, there are bitter confrontations in courts, which they're winning because Commentary: everyone is intimidated by them. While the Moral Majority didn't go through with its television boycott, Procter & Gamble and others did back down, and have refused to advertise shows that made the Moral Majority's irrunoral list. This is without there even being a boycott! So, how moral is the Moral Majority? In some ways, they're very moral. In other ways, they're not as moral. They've bastardized the Golden Rule. Instead of doing unto others as you would have others do unto you, the Moral Majority does unto others, so that others cannot do unto them. That's the moral of this article. El Salvador- A Decision By DANIEL ROSENFIELD Columnist The US must therefore support the existing government, shabby as it may be. Ideally, the government troops would fight the rebels. The United States would supply only material and perhaps some advice. Eventually, the battle would be won by the govern- ment, who would be indebted to the United States; the United States would keep their nose clean and all would be well. Why law School? Now the question is just because a television show is questionable, just because the show doesn't go along with your views, does that mean it's evil or bad? All art presents values. Should we accept only those that present values we agree with? Once again, democracy must fight to keep that arch villain, communism from seeping further into the Western Hemisphere. The country at stake is El Savadore. The government in El Salvadore is inefficient, corrupt, and by our standards somewhat brutal; but is not communist. The rebels, who claim to be fighting for the people (though the people do not seem to agreel are apparently communist trained and backed. Sources in Washington indicate that there is little doubt as to the political affiliation of the rebels or of their source of supply and training. Problem: the fighting has started and the rebels are trained, the government troops are not. What to do? Well, what has been done is to bring some of El Salvador's military ad- visors over to the United States for training and to send American military advisors to train troops in the field. But American advisors should not be allowed near battle zones. By MARTIN SANDS Columnist Relieve it or not, lawyers in .ur society have become a dime <~ dozen. Many students today regard ~aw school as an extension of :heir undergraduate education ;1nd I believe that this is foolish. Accordingly, it seems ludicrous for people to attend >w school but not practice law. ! !1e path of law school should be pursued only by those who 'tncerely desire to practice law, \'. ith all its responsibilities and !imitations. Unfortunately, most students do not take this into consideration and as a rPsult there have recently been ct great deal of confused, un- motivated, unemployed at· tnrneys in the job market. In the past five years, the idea '·f law school as a graduate (··•urse of study has become ·WY important. Consequently, ~'~1mpetition for getting into law 'chool has become keen. A '!at ional survey taken in \ ovember of 1981 stated that approximately 20 percent of the 't ndents graduating with a four· Ye~r college degree are pur- stung an education in law :-ehool. This large percentage of ( ol!ege graduates in over· whelming the legal profession, a~d the present society. As a d1rect result, the top 20 law s~hools are requiring extremely high law board scores and above average G.P.A.'s before wey even review applications. urthermore, those that are accepted must study vigorously for 3 years in order to get a job. Unfortunately, jobs, even for the top scholars, have been scarce. Personally, I can recall countless experiences with fellow students in which various comments about law school were mentioned. Much to my dismay, the response of many students planning to attend law school has been, \Why not?\ or \I don't feel like looking for a real job yet,\ or \I don't know what I want to do so I guess I will go to law school,\ or the popular \What the hell, business or law school, it will make Dad proud.\ Insecurity seems to be at the core of these feeble reasons for desiring a law degree. In addition, those who are hiding behind the gates of law school should realize that it only postpones facing the real world for 3 years. It is my opinion that one should not hesitate to go to law school if one sincerely desires to practice law. However, the market is overflowing with unemployed attorneys and if one is questionable about the legal profession I suggest that one should take a serious look into the current legal situation before spending over $30,000 and 3 years of intensive study. Hence, it is my contention that more students should re- evaluate the present legal profession and its opportunities before blindly applying to law school. On \Three's Company\ there are good looking girls who are on, pretty much, for the sake of being good looking. At least none of them are nude, but Rubens and other painters glorified nudes. Does that mean a boycott of art is imminent? And what of t.v. news, with its ''weather girls\ whose sole talents can only be seen to be believed. What does that leave you with? Television sports are violent, so they have to go. And the Top Stories of the Night are often very gory stories. What does that leave you with? Do you have Mr. Rogers anchor the news with Captain Kangaroo? Taking \Three's Company\ off the air though, doesn't mean that people will turn on \Little House on the Prairie.'' All it means is that people won't be able to decide whether or not they want to watch \Three's Company.\ There will be a virtuous television schedule, but the people won't necessarily be more moral. And that brings up the moral question. The problem with trying to get people to be moral is whether the Moral Majority has a right to do so. What the Moral Majority wants to do is make all those who don't share their beliefs share their morals, whether we like it or not. That's not fair. They have a right to have their morals, but not the right to impose them on others. The co1mtry was founded on the The champion of democracy, the United States of America, is involved in El Salvador. Many have cried horrors - another Vietnam! Well, by all means, let's not get involved; I do not want my younger brother to be in El Salvador either. Then again, why not consider the situation; after all, nothing has happened yet and there is time to think. The United States has good reason to be concerned. El Salvador is relatively close to the United States. Further, the situation in El Salvador represents a potential spread of Soviet influence in the Western Hemisphere. Which side should we sup- port? The government may be horrid but better than the rebels. I ,est you the reader become mildly disenchanted with my point of dew and greatly confused as to my moral and political outlook, let me elucidate: I do not advocate the support of corrupt reg1mes. However, the rebels will be just as rotten and they will be under the influence of Soviet Russia. A source in Washington has suggested a neat solution to the problem: blockade Cuba, the source for the guerrilla forces. Not only would this move make the battle easier for the government but it would demonstrate to the world that the United States would not tolerate any Soviet aggression in El Salvador. The Soviets would not risk a war over El Salvador. Aside from thP fact that there is little for them to gain in El Salvador, the Soviets don't operate that way. They would simply shrug their shoulders and wait. Time is the Russians' ally, or so they think. Cuba would not attack the United States Navy. It might have been a safe bet under Carter, but with Reagan in the Oval Office, it might pmve foolish. As for the issue of the advisor with the rifle in the battle zorw. the weapon makes no dif· ference. It is the official that is the risk. Concordy Positions Available Call the office at 6155

Page 12 OONOORDl.ENSIS, February B5, 198B ~rts & CUlture ... .!:!! ro > J Gl c Ill. ..., E 0 .._ 0 ..r: c. George Siletzky in his dramatic role 'MacBeth' at Union College's Nott Memorial Theatre N . ·1 'B. · ·. R.· ·k' e1 .. : ·. oro to •. oc· By \FIM EMSWILER Staff There is no denying that Neil YoWlg is one of ·~ock's greatest old. men. He began recording with the band Buffalo Springfield in l965, a year which found sach groups as The Greatfulr Dead and The Rolling Stones starting to gain recognition. Since then, Neil has gone from Buffalo Springfield to Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young, then to The Stills-Young Band, then to Crazy Horse, then to solo work, and now back to Crazy Horse. Frank Sampedro on guitar, Billy Talbot ~:m:bass, and Ralph Molina on drums, although noticeably absent on Neil's last effort Hawks and Doves, provide a ' solid background for Neil's vocals and lead guitar on He-ac-tor. Neil Young's music forbids categorization. From country folk-rock of 'Harvest to the harmonious acoustic album Comes A Time to the hard- rocking Tonight's · The Night, Neil never fails to surprise those who try to predict what he will do next. And Re-ac-tor is no exception. The music on this album is no- nonsense rock and roll, pure and simple. The 1yrics, on the other hand, are anything but simple. Even the title carries with it various connotations. Obviously, we think of nuclear reactors first, but some of the -lyrics seem to indicate that this album is a reaction to the so- called \new wave\ in today's music. Or perhaps it is Neil's reaction to the labels that critics are constantly trying to stick him with. Neil Young could tell you what the hell it all means. ''Get Back On It\ is your basic ' 1 on theroad again\ blues number, with Neilplaying piano as well as tha most melodic guitar leads on the album. ''Southern Pacific'' opens up the second side with an in- troductiow very similar to Blackfoot's classic \Train Train, •' and the initial im- pression is that this is just another train song. Actually it is much more than that; it is the story :of a man Who is· forced to retire at 65 after a lifetime on the rails. It is also an expression of Neil's feelings on growing old in the rock business, as evidenced by the lines \I put in my time.-Now I'm left to roll- down the long decline.\ \Macbeth With a Conscience\ \Opera Star\ is the first song on the album, and the one that is becoming most popular with radio audiences. The sound is very similar to many of the songs on Live Rust, which may account for its wide range ac- ceptance. Key lines here are \You were born to rock-You'll never be an opera star,\ and \Some things never change.- They stay the way they are.\ \Motor City\ is a humorously patriotic tune about the over• abundance of foreign cars in America. It is a very .easy song to dance to, with a beat similar to a square dance or polka, and electric guitars thrown in as ornamentation. \Rapid Transit\ has very concise lyrics, including one of the more significant lines on the album, By ANDY LEVINE Drama critics always seem to have a field day in reviewing William Shakespeare's Mac- beth. The words \violent bloodletting, savage, gory,\ and \a tale of horror\ always seem to· turn up in describing the action of the play. Despite these words of passion, the play has been consistently un- successful when produced in the U.S. Among actors and directors, the play has been termed \a curse.\ Traditionally theatre groups have avoided Macbeth in the same way the Eliza bethian English avoided the plague. However, Union College Theatre has never been known for following tradition. Any observant campus member has probably noticed that the play is being advertised as The Macbeth Project, not merely Macbeth. The reason for this is simple. Under the direction of Professor Barry Smith the tragedy has un- dergone some major alterations from what an audience might expect to see. The stage blood, sword fighting, and the cackling witches have been changed. Some of the script itself has been transfored--lines have been cut, scenes have been rewritten in some spots. The end result is a new look at the play or as Barry Smith puts it, \Macbeth with a conscience.\ Macbeth and Lady Macbeth are not evil; they have had a taste of success. Once they sense that Poetry Today Poet Liam Rector will give a talk. and read from his. work at Union College this afternoon. Mr. Rector has completed a collection of poems, THE SORROW OF ARCHITECTURE. His work has appeared in many literary jour- nals, including \American Poetry Review,\ II Kayak,\ \New Letters,\ \Partisan Review,, 11 Poetry Northwest,\ and 11 Shenandoah.\ He will speak at 3:30p.m. in HU 116 and will read at 8 p.m. in the Humanities Lounge on the second floor of the Humanities Center. This is the fourth in a series of readings by contemporary authors sponsored by the Eng I ish Department and the Idol literary magazin~. Concerts Coming Soon Good Rats--J. B. Scott's Outlaws--SUNY Cobleskill King Crimson--Hullabaloo Ken Hensl.ey--J. B. Scott's Nick Lowe--J. B. Scott's February 26 February 27 March2 March4 March 17 And at Glens Fa lis Ozzie Osborn Grateful Dead Sunday, April ~ 1 Wednesday, April 14 Tickets for the Glens Falls shows go on sale Saturday, Feb. 27 and Wednesday, March 3, respectively, at The Palace, Ticketron and Glens Falls Civic Center. taste, they can never turn it off. The Macbeth Project opens tomorros night in the Nott Memorial at 8:00 p.m. The remaining performances are Feb. 27 and March 1-6. Tickets for students and faculty are $2 on weekdays and $3 on weekend performances.. With an ex- tremely competent cast and technical crew, The Macbeth Project is an event not to be missed! Get your tickets soon! Anyone who would like to write for Arts & Culture Give us a call at 6155 Ask for Bob or Robena \Surfer Joe and lV!oe The Sleaze\ is another of Neil's ballads gone rock-and-roll. Nothing new here, except for the guitar solo, which as a very distorted sound helped along by a wah-wah pedal and phase shifter. Neil may not be a very technically proficient guitarist, but absolutely nobody can play as poorly as Neil and still get an amazing sound. (For that matter; nobody besides Dylan - can sing as terribly as Neil and still sound so right.) Neil's guitar playing is similar to Ji.nii Hendrix, if only in its wailing - intensity. Next we have \T-Bone which could have all of Neil's critics running around in circles trying to find a hidden meaning. \T-Bone\ is over nine minutes· long, has a grand total of three (count 'em, tbl:'ee) chords, and the entire set of lyrics ts two lines long: \Got mashed .potatoes.-Ain't got noT-Bone.\ Only Neil Young could pull off something like this, and only WRUC 9.0.9 fm • a.teno ~\Every wave is new Wltil it breaks,\ and guitar rifts that can only be described as razor- edged. \Shots the album's final cut, features more cryptic lyrics which may or may not have deep social meaning, and guitar so distorted that the final note of the song could well be the dying gasp of an over- worked .amp. The bottom line is, that this album roc{ts. The tunes are catchy, the lyrics are in- teresting to say the least, and the guitar work is Neil at his electric best. One final note: on the back of the album cover is a quotation, in Latin, which most of us are f,arniliar with. ''God, grant me the serenity to accept those things which I cannot change, the strength to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference.\ I can see Neil sitting back in some log cabin in the Canadian woods, laughing as he imagines all those critics trying to find some clue to help them predict what his next album will be like. He knows, no matter what, that they will be wrong. WRUC TRIVIA CONTEST Week 2 Tentative Sfandings FRATERNITIES ZBT --27 INDEPENDENTS Five Neat Guys With Open Flys Judy Junk Howie's Muffdivers Dorp Salvage Late Arrivals Penthouse Zombies Flying Buffaloes DORMS Fox--49 West--27 Davidson--10 Richmond--2 19 9 8 6 3 2 \ 2 2 STUMPERS--33 Oz's Subcommittee for Nuking Preps To Make Room For Haitian Refugees Velvet Jones' Ho School TheNankins Pink Champagne National Association of Buckwheats To Assassinate Obscene Phone Callers Uncut Memb.ers Six questions were challenged. Decisions on · these will be announced at the beginning ot' the· third and last trivia program: Sunday, February 28th at 9 p.m., on 90.9 FM. This week's 5 pointer: WHAT WERE THE ORIGINAL TWO SETS OF CALL LETTE:RS (OR NUMBERS) FOR WRUC? 1 1

what is your blues piano melodic albwn. pens up an in- to ''Train, im· is just it is it is the to on old as put in roll- over• cars in song similar and in as 'Rapid concise more until it that razor- album's not and final well be over- this are in- and at his on is a most \God accept cannot change wisdom \ I can log woods, ;:~U some what He that 1 1 1 1 OQNCORDIENSJS_, February 25, 1982 Page 13 ~rts & Culture .on Film By JONATHAN ANDREWS Within its simplicity and infrequent plot crises, Chariots of Fire rises above and. through these reins, and stands high in glory. Written by Colin Weiland, and the first feature directed by Hugh Hudson, Chariots of Fire. brilliantly develops the struggle of two men to solve internal conflicts for the common good. As good as the human resources are in this picture, it is the technical fortitude that deserves first billing. Particularly laudatory are the soundtrack of Vangelis, whose keyboard and sy-n- thesized drum sound simulate the hectic pulsebeat of every stride, strain, and desire, and the really incredible color photography of David Watkin, who captures every nuance and feeling in Cambridge Univer- sity after the Great War. And there is many a nuance to be found; some boys are home, most aren't, and the ramifications of such are great. This is honestly and suc- cessfully conveyed by the Cambridge masters; the new crop of students must carry high the torch ·Of responsibility. It is a literal torch of responsibility. Ben Cross, a veteran theatre actor, plays Harold Abrahams, a Jew in a Gentile environment. Ian Charleson is Eric Liddell, an evangelical Christifln from Scotland. These two, previously in direct athletic competition with each other, have been given the task of winning the 1924 Olympic Games (Paris) for Great Britain, together. For. Abrahams, the struggle is of the highest abstraction; the man can't decide if he is running for. J,udaism, or for Great Britain, or both. For Liddell, the struggle is between God and country; is he to run on the Sabbath? Perhaps the greatest problem with Chariots of Fire is that we know that Liddell will eventually run, which makes his decision-making on camera somewhat silly. But Chatleson plays his role with so much conviction, and the script is written well enough, so that one tends fo ignore the facts and swings through the torment with the character. Ultimately, Chariots of Fire celebrates Great Britain. This is not the Great Britain of 1981, with Brixtons and Lon- doriderrys. Rather it is the glorious years of prep tradition, of gentlemen debating the politics of the day, of dreams of a bettet spiritual and material world. This is represented through the four supporting characters, primarily the young Lard Andrew Lindsay (Nigel Havers) who is juxtaposed against Sir John Gielgud, the master of Caius College at Cambridge. Gielgud and Havers play characters who are from similar moneyed and aristocratic backgrounds, yet Gielgud only grudgingly: give§ in to Abraham's fierce sense of Jewisimess, while Havers' Lord Lindsay revels in it; Abrahams · is merely one of the boys. Alice Krige, recently in Ghost Story, is seductive yet dreamily out of focus as Abrahams lover~ And lastly, Aubrey Montague, ex- pertly played by , Nicholas Farrell, celebrates that Great Britain can still retain some LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS Why not take the opportunity to study in London? A wide range of subjects and courses is available in Central London for students of the social sciences. Junior year ....... , ..... Postgraduate Diplomas One·year Master's degrees ............. Research Subjects include Accounting and Finance, Actuarial Science, Anthro· pology 1 Business Studies, Economgtrics, l;conqmics, l;conomic History, Geography Government, Industrial Relations, International History 1 lnternation'al Relations, Law, Management Science, Operational ,Re· search Philosophy, Politics, Population Studies, Social Administration, Sociai 1 Work, Sociology, Social Psychology and Statistical and Mathema· tical-Sciences. Application blanks from: Admissions Directorate, L.S.E., Houghton Street London WC2A 2AE, England Please state whether junior year or postgraduate. innocence after World War 1, and can hide the bitter memories to go on to a golden age ... As :long as we are on the subject of golden ages, On Golden Pond has recently a}r peared to some very rave reviews by some innocent members of this campus, o b- viously too overcome by the harshness of a winter to retain, any sensibilities. Rave reviews just should not be associated with this picture, which is more appropo for a kindergarten class or Channel 10. Henry Fonda, never one .for en· thusiasm ;or exciting speech, is all of a sudden enthusiastic, and this is ridiculously out of character for Fonda. Katherine Hepburn as that tough cagey old bird, Ethel, is clearly the only relatively bright spot in this catastrophe. It is a catastrophe, perhaps, because ·it had so ·much potential. The problem with On G()lden Pond mainly lies in its script. Simply, On Golden Pond was a fine, fine Broadway show,· and should have stayed that way, or at least the· screenplay should have been given to someone disassociated with the original production. The problems-such as Normy's sense of isolati()n, and the generational hassles- are all too quickly developed and solved. And all too simply. And with way too much emotion, playwright and screenwriter Ernest Thompson expects us to have a bottomless box of Kleenex. Thompson also insults the audience with Jane Fonda; gee, Jane 1 how badly do you get along with Daddy? Tell us, Jane! And thank you, Mr. Thompson, for making the point explicit, just in case we didn't catch it, which would be your fult, anyway. In any case, I'd just as soon name my daughter Times Square as Chelsea, it has the same stupid effect. Finally, Norman and Silly Billy (less than brilliantly portrayed (?) by Doug McKeon) throw Walter (now there's casting!) the fish back from whence he came. But we want Norman and Walter to throw Billy back from whence be came. But Billy is supposed to be· growing up. He just isn't convincing. Now Walter, there is the star of this movie! ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • • • • • Union College Concert Committee e • And Budweiser Present: • • • • • ! JORMA KAU:KONEN ! • • • • : with special guest: RICH DANKO : • • : Monday, March 8, 1982 : • • • • : in the Memorial Chapel : • • : . : at 8:00 p.m. : • • • • • Tickets on sale in Carnegie Ha II Box Office • e $4.00 with Union I D • • • - . ..... , ............................. . Art Exhibit Today You at'e invited to attend a special exhibition of original 19th and 2oth century graphic works from Japan, Europe, and America, in Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall, Thursday, February 25, 11 a.m.-4 p.m. The. F'rank Lyons Collection of Baltimore, Maryland, in- cludes: -Fine examples of 19th centlll'Y etching and lithograplly; -Contemporary as well as classic antique Japanese W()od- blocks; -Modem works in lithograpby, silkscreen, and intaglic; -100 years of photography (1860-1960); -A variety of contemporary poster art. Masters such as Cheret, Haden, Hiroshige, Klllliyoshi, Mucha, Saito, Tanaka and Whistler are represented, as well as noted photographers Abbott; Coburn, Eugene, Sander, and Steiglitz, plus a host of other distinguished contemporary and 19th cen- tury artists. The collection is shown in an informal atmosphere, and a knowledgeable representative will be on hand to answer questions about the works on view. People are encouraged to look through the more than 500 individually matted and well- described works of art. The pl\ice range is wide, beginning at under ten dollars. A \Spirit'' -ed Coffeehouse By .nJDJE STEINHARDT Friday night, February 19th, Spiritwood played at Cof- feehouse. Spiritwood is a husband and wife team; both sing and play accoustic guitar. They also play the mandolin, banjo, electric bass, piano, and harmonica. Their style as performers is very relaxed and unpresumptuous. Their musical style is very mellow and folksy on most songs; very similar to the early Nitty Gritty Dirt Band. Some of the songs were a mixture of swing and bebop type blues. Most of the duo's S()ngs are originals, however, and are a fine exhibition of talent . All the songs were entertaining and a few were very funny. One song that was particularly good was about a campground that had all the luxuries, such ·as a siX1 y foot drive-in movie screen. TI1e song was about how people leave the pressures of the city to go to a campground tha is really the same as the city · .ey left behind. The song is he embodiment of what Spiritwood is all about. Spiritwo()d !iang about nature and natlll'al things and put down material wealth, in a very entertaining way. Spiritwood may never make it to the top, but they certainly will make an impression on the privileged few who do get to see them. It was a shame that so few people showed up at Cor- feehouse. So often an audien( e can make or break a show, and although Spiritwood was good, the lack of a large audience took away much of the ex:citement that could have been shared. Union College Coffe~house provides a fun evening at a low cost and it is really wmth your while.

Page 14: Not Your Ty·pical Snowman . One freshman foond a unique way to procrastinate this weekend. This work of ice art appeared outside of Fox Dormi t•ory and attracted many spectators and drew. quite a fe.w commeAts. After this sculptural debut, the artis~ molded another figure the next. day (Sunday) !?itting on the concrete base of the flagpol·e. This fi.g·ure, as scantily clad as the other two. seemed to be basking in the afternoon sun, forecasting the spriAg days to come. It .is unknown whether the next figure will appear in rhe near future, but rumor has it that it might turn up in the computer center or the art night study. In any case, keep your eyes open; you never know what you might trip over. . OONOORDIENSIS, Febf'tl.(lry 25~ 1982 ~rts & Culture Thursd·av's Cabaret •• ~JUst Aweso.me By J.ENNIFER P ASTON On February 18th, an M.C. who chose to be identified as ''Your Mother\ greeted the Cabaret audience. \Your Mother\ displayed his many talents which included numerous clever yet obscene jokes, as well as a ventriloquists act with his friend Rudy the Recorder. Mr. \Mother\ was very clever, yet some ·of his humor could he viewed as of- fensive. There are. 88 keys on the piano, thus 88 reasons why Joel Beckerman was terrific. You may have seen this multi- talented musician, donning his \piano\ scarf, around campus. Union's own budding Barry Manilow treated audiences to a wide variety .of tunes including many James Taylor and Billy Joel favorites. With songs such as \Maxwell's Silver Hammer\ and \Let It Be\ Joel had the entire audience singing along with him. Joel's mastery of the piano, <Joupled with his dynamic .stage :presence, captivated all and ;pr-ovided for an enjoyable evening. Originally billed as \The Fisheads\ we were informed by lea<! singer Dani Raphael that the group preferr-ed to be known as \F .L.I.C.\ · (Five Losers in Concert}. Certainly nothing could be further from the truth. 'T'he members of the group, Mike Zanta, Jim Ward, Steve Koelbel, Marc Zanta, and Dani Raphael, treated the audience to amazingly accurate renditions of \Heat Wave'', \Don't Stop\ and Fleetwood Mac's ''Chain'' among ot:bers. Mike Zanta's \You're All I've Got Tonight\ was super and was matched by Bani's encore .performance of \We've got the Beat\ by theGo-Gos. There are not enough wonderful. ad- jectivesin Roget's Thesaurus to describe ''F .L.I.C. \. They were entertaining, exciting, alive, exhilaratirtg, fantastic and most importantly, awfully good! HAPPY BIRTHDAY George Harrison February 25· Fats Domino and Johnny Cash February 26 This Desk Can Reach Mach 2 Some~esk jobs are more authority. In the air, and exciting than others. on the ground, you have As a Navy pilot or flight management responsi- officer, your desk can be bility from the beginning. a ~phisticated com- And your responsibility bina'tiqn of supersonic grows as you gain jet aircraft and advanced experience. No company electronic equipment. But you can handle it. can give you this kind of leadership respon- Because Navy flight training gives you the sibility this fast. And :p.othing beats the sheer navigation, aerodynamics and other technical excitement of Navy flying. knc5w-how you need. The salary is exciting, too.-Right away, I'hreturn, Navy aviation demands some- you'll earn about $18,000 a year. That's thing of you as an officer: Leadership. better than the average corporation will pay Your path to leadership starts with officer you just out of college. And with regular Navy training that's among the most demanding promotions and other pay increases, your in the military. It's intensive leadership annual salary will soar to $32,400 after four and pt~ofessional schooling combined with years. That's on top of a full package of rigorous Navy flight training. And it's all benefits and privileges. geared to preparing you and other college Before you settle down to an earthbound graduates for the unique r- ___________ --, desk job, reach forthesky. challenge of Navy I NAVY OPPORTUNITY W 26 I Reach for the coupon. aviation. The program is INFORMATION cENTER 1 :Find out what it takes to tough but rewarding. I P.O. Box 5000 • Clifton, NJ 07012 I bepartoftheNavalAvia- One important 1 D Please send me more information about Lecom· I tion 'Tham. You could ing a member of the Naval Aviation 'Iqm. 1(2)AJ reward for Navy officers I· 1 have a desk that flies at • Narn•---.=:-::---...,-,;;:=::--=,---..-::::-;:---- iS decislOn-making I Firat !Please Print! Lost I twice the speed of sound. Address _______ Apt. # ___ _ I City· _____ .stat••---Zip___ I I Age, ___ tCollege/University______ I I ;Year in College ____ +GPA ·I AMajor/Minorc_~~----------- 1 Phone Number (Ateu Codel Best Time to Call This is for general re(:ruitment Information You do not have t.o furnish any I of the information requested. Of course. the more we know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy positions £or which vou qualify. · CN 2-82 I I I I ~.. _______________ .... Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast.

dynamic vated all \The informed Raphael to be · (Five Certainly from of the Ward, and the accurate Wave'', otllers. All I've and encore e got the are ad- to were alive, most ood! h CONOORDIENSIS, F.ebruary 25, 1982 Page 15 Pay· More Now TQ I • Earn More Later and lower-class rates.\ (CPS)-As traditional sources of funding dry up, a number of colleges are now toying with a new concept in the ongoing quest for generating more in- come-differential tuition rates. ''Even if institutions provide compensation in financial aid, some students will s'till get hurt.\ Charging .according to demand for a course is \a market model concept that doesn't necessarily· fit in with the goals of public higher education,\ Berrier contends. \The driving force i:s the necessity of increasing money for the institution, but is that the responsibiiity of the public or of the student?, \The real issue, however, is whether you can enjoy the benefits without seriously jeopardizing access,\ Berrier says. \It's an issue that I think we're going to see discussed a lot more as time goes on.\ Kitten,~ Abused The idea of charging different tuition rates for different .categories of students is in itself not that 11e.w. Some colleges have been making in-and out-of- .state ·students, graduates and undergraduates, and professional school students pay different tuition rates for- years. What is new is that colleges are beginning to discriminate on bases like class level, cost of various courses, and even popularity of certain courses. Students, in other words, would pay more to major in popular subject s--tho.s e theoretically most likely to lead to good jobs after graduation- than to major in topics with lesser enrollments. In today's market, for example, it . would cost an English major ·more to transfer to a biology program, and even more to switch to engineering. A wide variety of ad- ministrators at various cam- puses confess they are flirting with the idea in response to radical cuts in state and federal education funding. But critics warn of limiting low-income students' access to high-payoff majors, and forcing all students to choose their majors ac- ,cording to cost factors. r.ather than to interest and aptitude. The University of Minnesota, reports Vice President for Academic Affairs Kenneth Keller, has already im- plemented tuition rates \based primarily upon the cost of the program.\ \We've been using the system for several years now, and there haven't been any major problems with it that I am aware of,\ Keller says. \The concept behind it is to have each student pay approximately the same percentage of his or her education costs.'' A biology major, for instance, will pay an average of $418 this quarter, compared to an English major's $351. Keller says the difference is found in material costs, lab expenses and departmental costs of providing the courses. Keller carefully adds that such differential rates must \of course, be balanced by ac- cessability .. We make sure there is sufficient financial aid available to students so that no one is locked out of a program and forced to major in something that has a lower tuition.\ There are a number of alternative fee plans that would base enrollment costs on factors like popularity, extra costs like lab and service fees, and \quality of programs that a university is particularly noted for.\ While differential tuition could \make it difficult for students with limited funds\ to get into high-payoff majors, schools would try t<> supply enough financial aid to remove cost as a factor in choosing a field of study. \I'm not convinced that financial aid is as effective a vehicle in increasing access (to all majors) as is low tuition,\ argues R. Michael Berrier of the American Association of State Colleges and Universities. \It's very easy to look at differential tuition as a means to get more money, but I think you also have to look at whether or not the increased cost would inhibit access,\ Berrier says. Indeed, the need for money is driving a lot of schools to look into the idea. , \There's no doubt tuition and fee schedules are going to have to change in response to needs for different types of funding,\ observes Walter Tousey of the University of Illinois. To.usey' s campus already charges different tuition rates for under- and upper-classmen and for grad and professional school students. lllinois hasn't altered tuition according to course content because ''from a political standpoint we decided it just wasn't worth the effort.\ Such plans, he adds, are full of loopholes. \What's to stop a student from enrolling in a low- tuition discipline for the first two years to save money, and then switching to his real major when he is a junior?. We already have· that problem with the different fees for upper- and lower-class students. Some students plan it so that they keep their credits just below the breakoff point for as long as they can.\ Still other colleges have already rejected any kind of differential tuition. Michigan administrators have \talked about differential tuition with the liberal arts program,\ says Dr. B.E. Frye, UM's vice president. \But we feel it affects the integrity of the liberal arts program when students start deciding upon a biology or chemistry or English degree based on cost rather than interest.\ But Berrier, for one, eipects the discussion to spread anyway if only because \differential tuition has a certain logic to it, especially when you consider that certain majors are going to make more money than others when they graduaate. The same is true for differences in upper- (CPS)-The federal govern- ment has charged Ohio State University researchers with •Left'-Out \I've thought about telling students on their applications that, if they're left-handed, they can't come here,\ jokes Ed Pafford, assistant vice chan- cellor .at the University of California-Davis. Spafford's conclusion comes after a semester-long effort to find out if Davis' classrooms are sufficiently equipped to accommodate left-handed students-a task Spafford calls \virtually impossible.\ Spafford started the project in response to a letter to the student newspaper complaining about the lack of left-handed seating in the classrooms and lecture halls. But \it's one of those things where you don't know what the need is, even after you know how many left-handed students there are,\ Spafford explains. ''How do you know how many left-handed writing tables to put in any one classroom? There could be a whole slug of left- handed students in one class and none in the next.\ Happily, Spafford found even southpaws aren't too militant about the issue. \I talked to one of the other vice chancellors who is left-handed, and he prefers writing on a regular right-handed tablet arm.\ Jim Wilson, head of building maintenance, estimates \about ten percent\ of the writing tables in the classrooms are for lefties. · He says it takes from $65 to $200 \per chair unit\ to retrofit a classroom. \It's certainly not a major issue\ nationally, says Paul Knapp, director of the Association of Physical Plant Administrators (APPA) in Washington, D.C. ''Mos~t colleges would be glad\ to accommodate a left- bander who needs a different desk, Knapp says, \the same way we would accommodate a wheelchair student by removing a desk or two.\ But lefties in general seem much less concerned about physical access than han- dicapped students, Knapp says. \I suppose the left-handed students just aren't that organized or articulate as a group. Either that, or they just aren't that concerned about it. I have a left-handed son who manages very well in graduate · school.\ THE UNION COLLEGE MEN'S GLEE CLUB with The Rutger's University Queen's Chorale presents 'TE DEUM' by Franz Joseph Haydn Sunday, February 28th at 3:00pm in Memorial Chapel · There will also be a selection of pieces for women's voices by the visiting chorale. I WI~H THE /V\ORAL MAJ\ORlTY WOULD f:JA(\) DANTE 5 .. INFERIVO ·: ... Tl-IEN) I IAJOULONT HAVt TO REAO IT THIS SEMESTER/ ~(\.)6LISH ..ltOO- 3l/O mistreating laboratory kittens at the university's veterinary school. The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) says the kittens suffered f·rom neck lesions, and taat some even had metal i.d. tags embedded in their necks because their collars were improperly ad- justed. The USDA has fined the university $1000. But OSU officials say the incident \ gotten all blown out of proportion,\ and contend that all their lab animals are well-treated. ''The incident happened two years ago when we sold a colony of kittens to a research firm in Kansas City,\ explains Dr. Ronald Wright, dean of the OSU College of Veterinary Medicine. The firm reported lesions on the necks of three or four kit- tens, Wright says. Apparently the collars-which were put on the cats when they were first born-were not re-adjusted as the kittens matured. But Wright says he only recently learned of the charges. His office is having a hard time proving or disproving \after- the-fact allegations.'' \It seems kind of ridiculous that the USDA waited this long to file the charges,\ Wright says. Wright is protesting the action. Though Congress passed the Animal Welfare Act in 1966, it considered a nwnber of bills last fall for · preventing inhwnane treatment of animals after instances of animal abuse were uncovered at some federally-owned research labs. In 1979, it was discovered the University of Arizona Health Sciences Center had force-fed lye to some 1300 dogs to observe how burned throats heal. \There is really no reason to believe that laboratory animals are being treated more htunanley than in the past,' says Dr. F. Barbara Orlans, president of the Scientists Center for Animal Welfare. \Nobody really knows how frequently animal abuses oc- cur,\ she adds. OSU's Wright swears his school complies strictly with the Animal Welfare Act. Kittens, he says are now \in new facilities that are pretty darn nice.\ Puzzle Answer Hey you! Did you read the Peanuts on p. 9? If not, turn back and read it! C 1977 United Feat~re Syndicate. Inc

Page 16 CONOOBDIENSIS, February g5, 198S o,._J>' •• ~.~ ~~~~~ ~~·: r • \\\\· G \ C, o ....._ \\ ( ... ~ \.._t:.\ b - ·• ' ... ·. ' ' v-;, .... ..;0 .. ~~'\\'~·'·q ' General Nottices All persons that took the hang gliding lessons given last spring, and have not taken their flights please contact Brad Fisher at 393-7222. Do not let this opportunity go untried. Another class scheduled for early in the sorine term is bein~ organized for ether prospective pilots, so be alert for future announcements. Robert L. Herbert, Robert Lehman Professor of the History of Art, Yale University, is the author of Barbizon Revisited, The Art Criticism 4lf John Ruskin, Ne4l- Impressioaism, Seurat's Drawings, as well as recent studies on MUiet, Leger, and the Social Iconograplly of Impressionism, the subject on which he gave the. Slade Ler- tures at Oxford University owo years ago. He is an authority on nineteenth century color theory~ and on the relationship between art and science. For many years Professor Herbert has been studying the sources of Seurat's great painting in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, La Parade, (1886-188a). He has traced almost every visual ami intellectual' source for this remarkable Nco-Impressionist painting, including the significance cf the traveling or street carnival as a. popular amusement. Professor Herbert will be giving the Jaffe lecture 011 Seurat's painting La Parade 011 Monday afternoon, March 8 at 4:00 p.m. in the Arts Building room 202. All are invited t() attend. Women i,nterested in at- tending the \Frontiers ill Science and Engineering'~ workshop to be held here at Union on A,pril17 should inquire about applications in their respective departments. Registration is open to wamell'. Presented by Union College t=ilm Committee e - Ices majoring in mathematics, science, engineering, and the social sdences and those considering a career in those fields. Registration is limited, and applications are due by March 31. For further in- formation, please contact Prof. Margaret Shadier at 6244 or Rachel Mandel' at 6155. WANTED: 100 People with $80 to participate in a marketing project that could earn you $12,000+ this year. Send $3 for details ta: DWO and. CO~ P.O. Box 3256 Schenectady, N.Y. 12303 Biology Department and The Biology elub Department Seminar will be en Thursday, March 4, 1982 at 4:30p.m. in S.S. 016. The speaker will be Dr. Eugene D. Albrecht, Associate Professor, Department Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Maryland School of Medicine & Hospital and the subject will be The Baboon: A model for hwnan pregnancy. Refreshments will be served at 4:00p.m. Marson Graphics to present original American & European prints at Union College. A spec1al · exhibition and sale of Original Graphic Art will be presented on Wednesday, March 3, 1982 at Carnegie Hall, Strauss Lounge from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Marson Graphics of Baltimore, Maryland specializes in exhibiting for sale a distinguished collection of original etchings, woodcuts, lithographs, and serigraphs. Apartment Wanted: We are looking for a two-bedroom apartment for next year. We woU'ld appreciate any in- formation. Please contact Cathy or Denise, 37~857. · The following new course will be offered this spring: Psychology 67: Seminar in Human Development, Professor Benack, Mon. & Wed., 1 :30-3:30~ This seminar will look in some depth at the work of those theorists who have applied .the cognitive-developmental ap- proach of Piaget to the study of social, moral, and personality development. Topics will span social development in childhood, adolescence, and adulthood. Prerequisites: Psych. 38, Developmental Psychology or permission of the instructor. Enrollment limited to 15, in case of over-enrollment, preference will be given to junior and senior psychology majors. SENIORS! Don't forget to vote March 2nd for your 2 Alumni Council Represen- tatives! Political Science majors who , will be Juniors or Seniors next year are eligible to apply fQr admission to the American University Washington Semestter for Fall, 1982. This program (which should not be confused with Union's Term in Washington) allows twe or three well qualified students to spend a semester · Jn Washington, studying at American University and participating in an internship in government. An informational meeting will be held on Monday, . March 1 at 4:30 p.m. in Social Sciences 115. Nominations of candidates kom Union will be made before Spring term begins. The coordinator of the program is Prof. Charles Tidmarch of the Political Science Department. Third-Year Reviews The Political Science Department is now conducting the third-year review of the performance of Associate Professor Clifford Brown. All members of the College . com- munity who have knowledge of Professor Brown and his work are invited to submit statements to James Under- wood, Chairman of the Department. Recommendations relating to the third-year evaluation for Professor Catherine Clinton of the History Department are now being accepted. All in- terested students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to contact Professor Donald Thurston, Chair, History Department, SS 213b (370-6074). . The Department of Economics will soon be con- ducting a third year review of Prof. Brad Lewis .. Individuals wishing to contribute in- formation pertinent to this review are encouraged to contact Dwight Phaup in the Economics Department. The Department of Ou Tbe Otller fro11t Economics will soon be con- ducting a third year review of Prof. Doug Klein. Individuals wishing to contribute in- ·1· formation pertinent to this review are encouraged . to contact Dwight Phaup in the Economics Department. Christopher Reeve • Margot Kidder • Gene Hackman Qpresented by Warner Brothers • Richard Lester, Director Color • Rated PG Feb. 26,27128 at 7:30 & 10:00 The Career Qenter will sponsor: Electronic Music Club 'there wiU be a meeting of the all new Union College Elecgronic Music Club Friday, Frebruary 26 at 7:00 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. All interested students and faculty are in- vited. CAREERS IN PERSONNEL P~el Wednesday, March 3, 7 p.m., StraussLounge The panelists include: Melissa Bartlett, Personnel Emplcyment Department, Bache Ter Bush & Powell Bob Arroyo, Personnel Director for Management General Electric Jack Linsky, Personnel Manager Norton Company ?ane~sts will d.isc~s what t~ey do on a dally basis in their positiolls, how they entered and advanced · m thell' caree_r, opt10ns av:rulable, and personal tips on entering the field. The informal setting will allow arnpletliile for questions and answers.of specific concerns. HomecomiDg '82! . EVERYONE is cordially invited to attend the first general Homecoming meeting which will be held on Tuesday, March 2, 1982, 7:30 p.m., Banquet Room, carnegie Hall. Get involved! We're looking for new ideas and suggestions to make Homecoming '82, October 15, 16 and 17, the biggest success yet! Please RSVP to Chrissie in the Alumni Office at 6168 by Monday, March 1st. Freshman Record There will be an important meeting of the 1986 Freshman Record staff on Wednesday March 3rd at 4 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Please bring along rulers and t-squares to help start the layout work. Anyone interested in working for the Record should attend. ''Girlfriends'' Thursday, February 25, 1982 First Act: JULIE WILDMAN Second act: DAVE HAVILAND KAREN WEISGERBER & GREGG MEYER M.C.: JON SKINNER Shows at 9 & 11 nckets on sale in Carnegie W~men in Film Series, 7 :-3o pm, Stage II, March 3, Carnegie Hall. Free. Funding for this film provided by the History Department 011 Tile Greek fro:qt RaceNite Chi Psi's 17th Annual Race Nite is Sat., Feb. 27th. Post time is 10:00. $LOO in advance, $2.00 at the door. Food, free beer, free punch, shot bar, popcorn, Black Jack, Fihned races ... A great time!'! TYPING SERVICE 75c per page - CALL CHERYL AT 399-7614

Page 16 CONCORDIENSJS, February !5, 1982 .,t-1\· & ,- ,~~ . Gen·eral Nottices -k' All persons that took the hang gliding lessons given last spring, and have not taken their flights please contact Brad Fisher at 393~7222. Do not let this opportunity go untried. Another class scheduled for early in the soring term is being organized for other prospective pilots, so be alert for future ann0uncements. Robert L. Herbert, Robert Lehman Pr0fessor of the History of Art, Yale University, is the author of Barbizon Revisited, The Art Criticism of John Ruskin, Neo- Impressionism, Seurat's Drawings, as well as recent studies on Millet, Leger, and the Social lconognphy of. Impressionism, the subject on which he gave the Slade Lec- tures at Oxford University owo years ago. He is an authority on nineteenth century color theory, and on the relationship between art and science. For many years Professor Herbert has been studying the sources of Seurat's great painting in the Metropolitan Musewn of Art, La Parade, (1886-1888). He has traced almost every visual and intellectual source for this remarkable Neo-Impressionist painting, including the significance of the traveHng or street carnival as a . popular amusement. Professor Herbert wHl be giving the Jaffe lecture on Seurat's painting La Parade on Monday afternoon, March 8 at 4:00 p.m. in the Arts Building room 202. All are invited to attend. Women interested in at- tending the \Frontiers in Science and Engineering'' workshop to be held here at Union on April17 should inquire about applications in their respective departments. Registration is open to women Presented by Union College Film Committee Christopher Reeve • Margot Kidder • Gene Hackman Qpresented by Warner Brothers • Richard Lester, Director Color • Rated PG Feb. 26,27, 28 at 7:30 & 10:00 The Career Center will sponsor: e Ices majoring in mathematics, scier:tce, engineering, and the social sciences and those considering a career in those fields. Registration is limited, and applications are due by March 31. Fo·r further in- formation, please contact Prof. Margaret Shadier at 6244 or Rachel Mandel at 6155. WANTED: roo People with $80 to participate in a marketing pro~ect that could earn you $12,000+ this year. Send $3 for details to: DWO and CO. P.O. Box 3256 Sche11ectady, N.Y. 12303 Biology Department and The Biology Club Department Seminar wiH be on Thursday, March4, 1982 at 4:30p.m. in S.S. 016. The speaker will be Dr. Eugene D. Albrecht, Associate Professor, Department Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Maryland School of Medicine & Hospital and the subject will be The Baboon: A model for hwnan pregnancy. Refreshments will be served at 4:00 p.m. Marson Graphics to present original American & European prints at Union College. A special exhibition and sale of Original Graphic Art will be presented on Wednesday, March 3, 1982 at Carnegie Hall, Strauss Lounge from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Marson Graphics of Baltimore, Maryland specializes in exhibiting for sale a distinguished collection of original etchings, woodcuts, lithographs, and serigraphs. Apartment Wanted: We are looking for a two-bedroom apartment for next year. We would appreciate any in· formation. Please contact Cathy or Denise, 370-6857. · The following new course wil1 be offered this spring : Psychology 67: Seminar ill, Human Development, Professor Benack, Mon. & Wed., 1:30-3:30. This seminar will look irJ some depth at the work of thosE· theorists who have applied thE cognitive-developmental ap- proach of Piaget to the study of social, moral, and personality development. Topics will span social development in childhood, adolescence, and adulthood. Prerequisites: Psych. 38, Developmental Psychology or permission of the instructor. Enrollment limited to 15, in case of over-enrollment, preference will be given to junior and senior psychology majors. SENIORS! Don't forget to vote March 2nd for your 2 Alumni Council Represen· tatives! Political Science majors who . will be Juniors or Seniors nex:t year are eligible to apply for admission to the AmericaJI University Washingto11 Semestter for Fall, 1982. This program (which should not be confused with Union's Term in Washington) allows two or three well qualified students to spend a semester iii Washington, studying at American University and participating in an internship in government. An informational meeting will be held on Monday, March 1 at 4:30 p.m. in Social Sciences 115. Nominations of · candidates from Union will be made before Spring term begins. The coordinator of the program is Prof. Charles On Tbe Otber froqt Electronic Music Club · There will be a meeting of the all new Union College Elecgronic Music Club Friday, Frebruary 26 at '7:00 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. All interested students and facu1ty are in- vited. Homecoming '82! CAREERS IN PERSONNEL Panel Wednesday, March 3, 7 p.m., Strauss Lounge EVERYONE is cordially invited to attend the first general Homecoming meeting which will be held on Tuesday, March 2, 1982, 7:30 p.m., Banquet Room, Carnegie Hall Get involved! We're looking for new ideas and suggestions to make Homecoming '82, October 15, 16 and 17, the biggest success yet! Please RSVP to Chrissie ill the Alumni Office at 6168 b:y Monday, March 1st. The panelists include: Melissa Bartlett, Personnel Employment Department, Bache Ter Bush & Powell Freshman Record There will be an important meeting of the 1986 Freshma11 Record staff on Wedllesda:y March 3rd at 4 p.m. in Straus~ Lounge. Please bring along rulers and t-squares to heliJ start the layout work. AnyonE interested in working for thE Record should attend. Bob Arroyo, Personnel Director for Management General Electric Jack Linsky, Personnel Manager Norton Company ~ane~sts will disc~s what t!ley do on a daily basi~ in their po~itions, how they entered and advanced m therr care~r, optlons available, and personal tips on entermg the field. The informal setting will allow ample tnne for questions and answers of specific concerns. Thursday, February 25, 1982 First Act: JULIE WILDMAN Second act: DAVE HAVILAND KAREN WEISGERBER & GREGG MEYER M.C.: JON SKINNER Shows at 9 & 11 nckets on sale in Carnegie ''Girlfriends'' Women in Film Series, 7:-30 pm, Stage II, March 3, Carnegie Hall. Free. Funding for this film provided by the History Department Tidmarch of the Political Science Department. Thlrd-Year Reviews The Political Science Department is now conduding the third-year review of the performance of Associate Professor Clifford Brown. All members of the College com- munity who ha-ve knowledge .of Professor Brown and his work are invited to submit statements to James Under- wood, Chairman of the Department. Recommendations relating to the third-year evaluation for Professor Catherine Clinton of the History Department are now being accepted. All in- terested students, factJ.lty, and staff are encouraged to contact Professor Donald Thurston, Chair, History Department, SS 213b (370-6074). The Department of Economics will soon be con- ducting a third year review of Prof. Brad Lewis. Individuals wishing to contribute in- formation pertinent to this review are encouraged to contact Dwight Phaup in the Economics Department. The Department of Economics will soon be con- ducting a third year review of Prof. Doug Klein. Individuals wishing to contribute in- formation pertinent to this review are encouraged to contact Dwight Phaup in the Economics Department. Oq Tile Greek fraJpt RaceNite Chi Psi's 17th Annual Race Nite is Sat., Feb. 27th. Post time is 10:00. $1.00 in advance, $2.()0 at the door. Food, free beer, free punch, shot bar, popcorn, Black Jack, Filmed races ... A great time! ! TYPING SERVICE 75c per page CALL CHERYL AT 399-7614

of er- of in- ss of of to of of to he .A OONOORDIENSIS, February 25, 198! Page 17 • Ices .··_;:· ; _>::>,:,;.~·-;·-f.·-;- . I..- ·.· . Y: ·.,. persona . . .¥ you ha!fe ~ny . ata,p).~dg(IS; I*E . Eileen: Happy Birthday! l! · We love ·Y.O:U ·· Ft'em yaur favorite ·roomie. break a promise! Me m01·e (per@O~~ls). . . . . '<· -_:,,, .:- ·.,._: ,.), : .':.~ -:,.--~-!!-.<-\·:·:- Candlelight, CeJln,, Cool· Whip and eye screws •.• the making of a fantastic ~vening. · · Gus .ami Btmnsie: How did the tbretHtf\us.m.anage to have -- alt,of our blvthday.s ita the· same week?-tbis can .only lead to one thing ,, , • SHITF ACED .Ji:OR 1 STRAlGH'l' DA YSl Bring the Cello· and I'll meet you in the oven for· a toast! I love you guys, even if you do wear. mittens in. strange places . . . Forev.•r~ Mags xoxoxoxoxo SISSY SPACEK TOMMY LEE JONES March 2nd at 7:30 & 10:00 Presented by the Union College Film ·committee Improve your memory. Order this memo board now-before you forget! • -- ·------- ' ------------ -------- ·--·--· -- ·- --- -----·----------------- --- - --- --·------------------: SEAGR!M OISTlUfRS CO., N.YC AM!RICM\\IIi$Elo.A BlEHO. 80 PROOF kvtol·llp •ild 7UP- llfl!lt&dtmarkt.oftlll!St!vtn·UP Comp&ny 0 1962 ,RAT-Be aware the ice is getting. thinner so you better burry up and go I.F. Otherwise. it could be a bit wet going. To the Masked M&M Thief: Stay away from my M~M's-A Concerned M&M Laver. Ueyl Gus, Mags and Burn~ sie--HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!!! Love \THE GIRLS\ from 4th Floor Richmond. To Keith Feltman, alias MO~ JO QUOs I tDld you I never Bo-Don't kill me, r really wanted to go, but I just had too, too mu.ch work. I'm tres sorry. I hope you still love me. Love, Cow. P.S. I'm sure you wer~ ten:ific!l ROLLY -Having a lovely time. Really wish you were here. Love, Frank Mel-Don't worry alxmt it, som(lbow everything will all work out and we'll all have a wonderful Spring. I promise. Lots of love-Me. .NOTICE All contract meal plans students eating in Hale House will be eating in the Old Chapel Dining Hall on Saturday, February 21, 1982. Hale House main dining hall will be closed due to , previous committments. All Students shoulcl enter Old Chapel via the closest door to the Security side of the building Tommy Liam ~ .. ~~~-~ BOOKS GIFTS CARDS Sunday, 'febrwuy 28, ~p .'M. 'J.\'dtas: S1.SO, ss.so Avallable at aD CBO Outlets: Prod ill's Arcade (51&-370-0047), Colonie (458-75JO), Plaza (473-8122) md Troy (212-4191) Group Discounts-Contact Pat Bucldeyat 3700047 St. Smior Otizms and Student Dlsc:otrnts -136 Jey Street Downtown Schenectady--- us ·2718

cal All of to of in- ss of of to of of to 2.()0 .A CONCORDIENSIS, February B5~ 198~ Page 17 • Ices I-Happy Birthday and· fourth personal. May you have many more (personals). • N. Such a NICE guy. Snoo~s: Can we watch Looney Tooes and make some cartoon physics of our own? Can you float? LOve~ Sweet Oleeks · You guys-After about 37 rounds of Fip the Clup, dandng on the tables is acceptable and doing strange things with bar wtools is understandable. Let's do it again sometime soon. ,. ·r Mike-A belated thank ycu fvr your thoughtful valentine gifts. Thanks for everything . . . LG and SW Sharoo-Mareb 18. It is much to soon, our friendship has jwrt begun. I'll miss you. Thanks for all your advice and support. Keep in touch • • . Love LG Tim- Thanks for being such a good sport. Whenever you are looking for abuse you know were to find it. Thanks for the cheer. With tender affection ... · LG and SW To our Tri-Delta Pledges: BE PREPARED!!! We love Y<~U all, anyway. Candlelight, Cell(), Cool Whip and eye screws ... the making af a fantastic evening. Gus and Burnsie; H()W did the three (If us manage to have all of our birthdays in the same week?-this can only lead to one thing . . . SHITF ACED FOR 7 STRAIGHT DAYS! Bring the Cello and I'll meet you in the oven for a toast! I love you guyst even if you do wear mittens in strange places . . . Forevet\ Mags xoxoxoxoxo SISSY SPACEK TOMMY LEE JONES March 2nd at 7:30 & 10:00 Presented by the Union College Film Committee Improve your memory. Order this memo board now-before you forget! !fAGR/JI Dl&llllERS CO • H I C !WERII:AH iiHISl(£1-1 BLEHD 80 PROOF >tw~-L'P 3na 1UP ~re••!<Um~rx~ort\'!S!MiniJpComp!ll~ C ·~2\ .·s· rl Eileen: Happy Birthday! From your favorite roomie. .RAT-Be aware the ice is getting thinner so you better hurry up and go I.F. Otherwise, it could oo a bit wet going. To the Masked M&M Thief: Stay away from my M&M's-A Concerned M&M Lover I;Ieyl Gus, Mags and Bum- sie-HAPPY BlRTHDAY! ! ! ! Love \THE GIRLS\ from 4th Floor Richmond. To Keith Feltman, alias MOw JO QUO, I told you I never break a promise! Me Bo-Don't kill me, I really wanted to go, but I just had too, too much work. I'm tres sorry. I hope you still love me. Love, Cow. P.S. I'm sure you were terrific!! HOLLY-Having a Lovely time. Really wish you were here. Love. Frank Mel-Don't worry about it, somehow everything will all work out and we'll all have a wonlli!rful Spring. I promise. Lots of love-Me. NOTICE All contract meal plans students eating in Hale House will be eating in the Old Chapel Dining Hall on Saturday, Februaty 27, J982. Hale House main dining hall will be closed due to · previous committments. All Students should enter Old Chapel via the closest door to the Security side of the building Torntny Liatn .,..~-~~Ia~ BOOKS Gl FTS CARDS Sunday, February 28, 2 P.M. Tkl<ets: $7.50, $5.50 Available at all CBO Outlets: Proctor's An:ade (518-3?'().(1()47). Colonie (458-7530), Pbua (4'7J.al22) and Troy (272-4191) Group Discounts· Contact Pat Bucldey at 37().0047 $1. Senior Gtizens mdStudent Dlscotmts -136 J•y Street Down town Schenected y--- ::~•e ·2718

Page 18 OQNCORDIENSIS, February 25, 198B Intramural Roundup. O.T. By DAVE PACE Sports Staff The five man intramural basketball season is winding down rapidly. This week's games will determine who wiU get into post-season play. The A League playoff con- tenders are Sigma Chi, Theta Delta Chi, Phi Sigma. Kapp~. Chi Psi, the Beavers and the Running Rebels, There are three close division races in B League.: The Red Division--Chi Psi and the Gunners are both l:lildefeated. Chi Psi wi:ll put its undefeated season on the line this Sunday when they face Phi Sig White who are 4-2. The Gunners will be tested tonight in their game against the 3-1 Delta Chi B team. The WhUe Division: The Hoopsters beat ZBT B in a battle of the lUldefeated last Thursday by a score of 54-44. Third Floor Fox South and the Interns are also strong teams in the division. The Blue Division: The Warriors will be risking their 5- 0 record this Sunday when they face the Foxes ( 3~2). The Yobblenorfs and DU Bombers also stand at 3-2. MEN'S BROOMBALL Blue Division w . T Yellow Division w L T '- AVENGERS 2 0 2 CANNONBALLE RS 3 0 0 THE EAGLEHEADS2 1 0 AGENTS.QFMU EM- Wi::NCHES 2 ~ 1 P.IRE 2 l 0 MOGUL'S KtDS 1 1 0 HOME OFFICE 2 1 0 NADS 2 2 0 SIGMA CHI BLUE 2 2 0 SIGMA PHI 1 2 1 YUAN'SB.RUINS l 1 0 SIGMACHI COM- DELTA PHI 1 2 0 MANDOES 1 4 0 WEBSTER 0 2 0 HEAD FIRST 0 4 0 Red Di,vision Green Division ZBTB 1 0 1 SIGMA CHI GOLD 3 0 ;l EAT BITES 1 1 0 FIRST FLOOR FOX DELTA CHI DOGS 4 l 0 s. 1 0 2 MURDER INC. 2 1 0 FOX COX 2 1 0 SOUTHERN DELTA CHI MEN l 1 0 RE B'E LS 2 2 0 FIJI 2 1 0 CHI PSI. RACOONS 1 1 0 WEST STARS 0 2 1 THE NEUTRON BOM- ABTA 0 3 1 BERS 1 2 () THE ICEBERGS 1 2 0 - By DAVE RUDEN Sports Columnist Teams For'Tbougbt (ll) With the sports .year In transition (football has just ended, baseball is just beginning, and oasketbaH and hockey nev:er end} it is time for my second list of teams for thought. These are teams or lists that would be interesting to watch for one reason or another. This isdedicatedto the Presidents ofthe Jim Neilson and Rod Selling Fan Club (no, they did not make the list this time). Special thanks to Fred Leinfuss, who has suffered through as many Sundays as I have. All Underrated NBA Team F. Jamaal Wilkes F. Dan Rourrdfield C. Jack Sikma G. Sidney Moncrief G. John Long All Star College Team F. Terry Cummings F. James Worthy C. Ralph Sampson G. John Paxson G. Quentin Pailey Ideal Ranger: Team G. Ed Giacomin D. Brad Park D. Barry Beck W. Rod Gilbert C. Jean Ratelle W. Vic Hadfield All Big East Team F. Corny Thompson F. David Russell C. Patrick Ewing . G. Dan CalandrUlo G. Eric Floyd INTRODUCING THE T•SHIRT YOU DRINK WITH A STRAW. Twelve Giants of the 70's Who Were A-Dh.ne A Dozen 1. Jim Del Gaizo 2. Junior Coffey -· 3. Rocky Thompson Now for the first time, L.eShake® brand yogurt is right here on campus. LeShake is the delicious, real yogurt you drink with a straw. It's all natural, with real fruit. There are no preservatives. And it's available at your campus snack bar in our 1 most popular flavors. What's more, not only c.;an you \Take a LeShake break ;·n• you can wear one. Because the L.eShnke T-Shirt Sweepstakes is on. Just fill in the entry blank below, put it in the sweepstakes box at your snack bar no later than March 8, 1982, and you just might win one of 15 \Take a LeShake break\ ™ T-shirts. The drawing will be held on March 9, 1982, and winners will be notified. (No pur- chase is required. Void where prohibited or restricted by law.) LeShake. It's a nutritious snack, a great-tasting meal, and one heck of a T-shirt. ---------~., \'lake a LeShake break\'\ T-Shirt Sweepstakes Name __________________ __ Address ------~------ City _______________ _ State: _________ Zip•----- Telephone'-~---------- _____ ....._ __ , ____ ~J 4. Walker Gillette 5. AI Simpson 6. John Hicks. 7. Eldridge Small 8. Pete Athas 9. Henry Stuckey 10. Larry Jacobson 11. Jim Steinke 12. Rich Glover NBA No-Pass Team F. John Drew F. Elvin Hayes C. Dan Issei G. World B. Free G. Fred Brown NBA Rebounding Team F. Larry· Bird F. Larry Smith C. Moses Malone G. Michael Ray Richardson G. Magic Johnson 3 Hockey Players Who Could Alter Any Hockey Franchise 1. Wayne Gretzsky 2. Mike Bossy 3. Brian Trottier NHL Team of the 70's G. Ken·nryden D. Bobby Orr D. Denis Potvin W. Bobby Hull C. Phil Esposito W. Yvan Cournoyer NY Mets Team of 70's ( ?) C. J .C. Martin lB. Jim Beauchamp 2B. Bobby Pfeil SS. Al Weis 3B. Bob Aspromonte OF. Rod Gaspar OF. Don Hahn OF. Larry Stahl SP. Don Cardwell RP. Dick Selma 5 Best Boxers 1. Sugar Ray Leonard 2. Alexis Arguello 3. Marvin Hagler 4. Thomas Hearns 5. Wilfred Benitez & Salvador Sanchez Now you can find LeSIIake yogurt, and enter the LeShake TjiOShirt Sweepstakes, Rathskeller Pub, Dutch Hollow Pizza Pub, and Dutch Hollow Pub. See rales oa the eatry box for details. Most Overrated Boxer Larry Holmes 5 Best Goalies Ofthe70's 1. Ken Dryden 2. Bernie Parent ®Kellogg Company @ 1'182 Ktllogg Company 3. Ed Giacomin 4. Tony Esposito 5. Gerry Cheevers - ,I \ er la OJ D: W< a~ 6g cl u st aJ M ei SE hl m kl b; ol d< w 01 n tE R rc p \ g, sl h tE aJ g s· n Sl b tJ B J fj g a F c tl

ended, never are this 70's ho alvador • OONOORDIENSIS~ February !5, t98S Page 19 D.ivision ll Hockey Standings (as of 2-22) Team--overal'l Plattsburg'h--20~11 -1 ~o. Adams--17-7-0 Norwkh--16-4-0 WiHiams--12\9-1 Union--12-1'5-l Westfield--13-14-0 Hamilton--} 1-12•0 Middlebury--8-11~ WEST W-l-T 18-5-1 17-7-0 16-9•0 10~6-1 Pet. .770 .681 .640 .617 .543 .400 .388 .375 ~Athlete of the Week .~ Team--overall • Os wego--20:· 7-0 RIT--20-9-l E'l m i·ra--12-16-1 Potsdam--9-12-2 Cortland--6-21-1 Buffalo--7 -15-1 Geneseo--9- 15-0 Brockport--8-18-0 ' NYSCHA 12-10~ 1 8-12\0 7-11-0 5-9-2 W-l-T 12'-2-0 11-3-0 10-4-0 7-6-1 4-10-0 3-9-1 3-9-0 3-10-0 Pet. .857 .785 .714 .535 . 285 .269 .250 .230 By MIKE SHARP Sports Staff Athlete of the Week honors have been bestowed upon fresh~ man wing Gill Egan of the Union College Hockey Team. He earned his honor with out- standing games against Pot- sdam State, North Adams State and Salem State. In Union's 10-4 victory over Potsdam State, Gill posted a three goal hat trick and also added an assist. His first goal came at 6:22 of the second period and broke a 2-2 deadlock . His final two goals were tallied early in the third period. One came 26 seconds into the period and his final goal came a little Women's B-baU Wrap-Up By KATHY BENTLEY Sports Staff The women's basketball team ended its '82 season with a game last Wednesday against Oneonta and the Capital District Tournament this past weekend. Union did not fare well against Oneonta, suffering a 49- 69 loss. Oneonta's defense closed up the key and forced Union to put up a lot of outside shots. Cay Lynch sank 23 points and Carol Wrenn had 13. Julie Miller was high rebounder with eight, while Cay followed _with seven rebounds. Carol Wrenn had four assists. It must be mentioned that Wednesday' was keg night and the men's basketball team easily carried off the prize with nearly deafening support for the women's team. Thanks go to all our fans that were there. The Capital District Tour- nament included four area teams: Union, Albany State, St. Rose and host RPI. The first round of play on Friday night pitted Union against Albany, who Union already defeated this season. The game started slowly, leaving Union down at halftime. Yet the Union team, with its usual determination, pushed during the second half to even up -the score. However, Union's drive was broken with the help of a_ poor call resulting in four quick points for Albany with only a couple minutes remaining. This exciting game ended in a 69-66 loss. The Union squad played well, with Julie Miller garnering 25 poi·nts, Carol Wrenn with 20, and Cay chipping in with 13 points. Both Julie and Brenda Hugick had 11 rebounds each while Cay got nine. Union met St. Rose in the consolation game Saturday afternoon, another team they defeated earlier in the season. Union had severe defensive problems that allowed,St. Rose to make far too many fast breaks and easy layups. ,Also, our team did not do its best in shooting, hitting only 28.9 percent, as compared with 57.9 percent for St. Rose. Union was down by 36-24 at halftime . and continued its play to a final score of 80-60. Carol Wrenn . managed to get 16 points, followed by Anne Fitzmaurice with 13, and Cay with 12. Brenda Hugick had six steals and was high rebounder with 10. Julie Miller had nine rebounds and J.V. Hoops ByG.C. Sports Staff The '8V82 J.V. Basketball team has been a story of ups and downs. After an opening game victory over Albany State, a long layoff of nearly a month hurt the team as they suffered a series .of close set- backs. Coach Tom Collette's troops are led by high scoring Brian Laux and 6'5\ center John Mracek whCJ has been on fire throughout the . February games. After blowing big leads against Williams College and RPI, the team dropped another close one in double overtime to the College of St. Rose. . The team bounced back with a strong effort against Oneonta led by the play of power forward Steve Lewis and skywalker Scott Doniger. Point guard ' Mark Hurrowitz and small forward Jim Gale starred in the trouncing of Skidmore. Guards Don Rowe and Jim Kenneally round out a solid backcourt that has been consistent throughout the year. The highlight of the year came in a last minute victory over a tough New Paltz team. Sparked by the sensational play of swingman Tony Esernio, the team staged a late comeback, capped off when backup center Mike White calmly banged home an eighteen foot jumper at the buzzer for a two point win. The team concludes its season this Wednesday at RPI in the hopes of avenging its earlier defeat. SUPPORT Cay Lynch, six. Although Union's losses in the ·tournament were disappointing, we did have two tournament all- star players--senior Carol Wrenn and sophomore Cay Lynch. Congratulations! This season's overall stats show that Union has some very talented players. Sophomore Julie Miller had 245 points this year for a 15.3 point game average. She was high re bounder, averaging an im- pressive 11.1 per game. If that ~asn't enough, she was second in steals with 28. Obviously, Julie is a well-rounded .and valuable team player. Sopho,more Cay Lynch is an amazing shooter who sank a team high of 293 points for a 17.2 point average. She was also second in assists with 28. Carol Wrenn, a senior co-captain, had the most assists, 34. She put in 218 points to average 12.8 per game. Junior Brenda Hugick is an aggressive player who was first on the team for steals with 49 and second in rebounds with 8.1 per game. Congratulations on a season of fine playing and good basketball. Coach Barta is \extremely proud of the women's basket- ball team this season. They expressed a tremendous amount of desire, deter- mination and aggressiveness this season which was par- ticularly evident in the comebacks of as much as ·20 points in a nwnber of our .games.\ Coach Barta continues, saying, \I should hope that people won't look strictly at the win-loss record of 7-10 this season. I think our spectators will agree that the team was extremely exciting to watch this year, which may be the reason for the increase in our home crowds. Six · of the ten losses were by an average of 3.6 points. I consider this year to be our building year and expect the Union squad to be the team to beat in the near future.\ On behalf of the team, I would like to send best wishes to this year's seniors--co-captains Anne Fitzmaurice and Carol Wrenn, and also Johanna Briggs. more than a minute later at 1:36. Against North Adams, in the 5-1 Union win, Gill managed two ·goals. In Union's final regular season game of the year against Salem State, Gill again scored two goals in the 6-4 Dutchman victory which kept alive the skaters' playoff hopes. His performance during the final week moved Gill into third place on Union's 1981-82 .scoring list with 28 points (19 goals, 9 assists) .. Gill is 5'7\ and weighs 170 lbs. He ts no rookie on the ice having played two years for the Napean Raiders of the Central Junior A League. For the Raiders, Gill scored 31 goals and had 40 assists in 50 games last year. Gill, a native of Napean, Ontario, has yet to decide upon a major. He is a pledge of the Chi Psi Fraternity. Gill Egan ... Playoffs Possible Continued from page 20 allowed Union to erase deficit and end th.e with a 3-point ad'\ran1tage, Wood hit five of six the field to score 10 points half. Joe -Clinton and J arosak each picked assists in the half. Union scored a a run ·Of nine to open up the appeared as though would be sufficient to victory. But . with remaining and the score at 45, Coach Scanlon instructed team to go into their 4.,...,nrnPr\' stall. Clarkson proceeded score the next six points. minutes after the stall had begun, the scoreboard read 58. Joe Wood and Kevin once again teamed up to Union a littie cushion to with, combining for points, making the score Clarkson scrapped back cely only to come up final score was· 73-70. led all scorers with 23 with 8-11 from the field from the foul line. J tanile grabbed nine and added 14 points to On Saturday afternoon, · traveled to northern New state to face powerhouse St. .~~=·rpn\\' team which has recently one of its top players academic deficiencies. was one of those games the Dutchmen played up to competition. Union smaller, but feistier and defense was Although the Du1;clunel1 down by three at the held their ponents to. center John •uv.uo..-; hot hand in this help~' the Garnet from a seven point deficit in the second half to overcome their foes and score a 57-55 victory. night, Union break early in out to an 18-3 Adams !J.Ua.lu\' played ball to and momen- lead 27-26 at . This would be in the game that would taste the Montanile and Joe ..... ., .... .., ..... for 18 points to a 37-34 halftime lead . had his usual five in the first half. teams traded baskets four minutes of the Kevin Bartlett hit a jumper and then shot at the other end Union with a spark started a seven point run. made the score 50-41 with utes to go. North Adams not get within four points remainder of the game. this lead, Coach Scanlon able to give hi!t reserves much needed playing . The reserves held up and score was 76-68. Montanile was the scorer with 19 points. Jolm Jarosak, Kevin and Joe Clinton had 16, and 10 points, respec- -.. ...... uu led the team with Union has finally the .500 mark. Their stands at 12-11. They been over .500 since the game of the season. A win ·over RPI on Wednesday night will make it four straight and would enhance Union's chances for a post season tourney berth.

0 c 11) Qj - , 11) u Q) ~ ~ >. .0 0 +- 0 .c a. 0 - 0 .c a. 1- ~ Page 20 OONOORDIENSISJ February S5, 19814. ort 4 Union skaters pressure Univ. of New Haver:~ goalie. _ Sports Notes Brooks Captures ECAC Honor (CNB)-For the second time this season sophomore goalie Bart Brooks has been selected the Eastern College Athletic Conference's ''Goalie of the Week.\ The 6'3\ 190-pound netminder, who won his first ECAC award of the year during the Week of January 5 through 9, won two /of three games last week to keep the Skating Dutch· men in contention for a post· season tournament berth. dropped a 4-2 decision to AI Ellis of 'Glassboro in the cham- pionship round. Union's third competitor, Gary Cohen, lost his opening two matches in the 134-pouru:l weight class. Wrenn, Lynch on All-TourDament Team Hockey Out Of Playoffs Brooks opened the week with a 10-4 victory over Potsdam. During the game, he kicked a way 45 shots including 27 of 28 . in the first period. His per- Senior guard Carol Wrenn and sophomore g..uard Cay Lynch were elected · to the Capital District's Women's Basketball Tournament All- Star Team at the conclusion of the two-day event this past Saturday afternoon. Both women are graduates of Loyola High School where they both competed in voHeyball, basketball and softball. By D.S. HURLEY Sports Editor Hockey Beats North Adams Last Thursday, Union faced a t()ugh North Adams team that was sporting a 16-6 record going into the game .. This was a key game for the Dutchmen in their playoff drive. Union was not to be denied as they outskated North Adams to a 5-l victory. Goal scorers for Union Don Beall, Gill Fobare and Chip Saturday, the New Haven <iamper on · !lopes. It was game for the <»utshot UNH ~apitalize on ebances. Poor apparent Goal scorers 'rod Fobare, D()n Beall Caruso. The Dutchmen ECAC Seltectior t:he second t!oach Charlie yeat tenure. The committee, which met Wednesday morning, selected Williams, who finished 10-7-1 in Division II and 12-10-1 overall ()Ver the Dutchmen who im· proved their 6·21·1 mark of last year to 13-10-1 in Division II and 12wl5-1 overall. The Dutchmen won four of their last five games while Williams lost their last f()ur games. The selection committee also decided against sending Union to the playoffs over Potsdam, the fourth place team in the NYSCHA. This move would have created a strong protest in Potsdam to say the least, but would have been a valid decision. Potsdam finished their season at 7-6-1 in Division II and 9-12-2 overall. Leading scorer Tod fobare was bitter with the ECAC. He · said, \The way tile ECAC set up the two divisions is a farce. We (Union) didn't even know there was lit until midway .......... v ... \ Fobare \The caliber of Division is far in the '1.uu•~v'' made the year and-finished our division this a good season who, despite turned things · year's dismal assistant Tomassoni sity and •liW:uu, a key . He ~atulations and the best to graduating seniors Shea, Bill Wall and tri- Mike Merlo. Union Defeats Salem Unron came back strong from their New Haven loss to face a playoff-bound Salem State team. Union needed a win to keep their playoff hopes alive. The Skating Dutchmen got little help from their fellow students. As usual on a weekday,Schaffer Library had more students in attendance than Achilles Rink. Union came to play hockey on Tuesday night. Senior captain Mike Merlo got the start in what would be his, Brian Shea's and Bill Wall's last game in Achilles Rink. John Montanile and Jim Hogan control a rebound for Uni.on Tod Fobare got Union going early in the first period wl:ien he picked up a Don Beall pass and beat Viking goalie Cha·rlie Barbour. Only 73 seconds later, red hot Gill Egan was on the receiving end of a Joe .Caruso pass that sent Gill in all alone. Ega:n put a few moves on Barbour then scored to put Union ahead early 2-Q. Salem was a team that had talent (they had j'y.st beaten Merrimack) but was not able to put it together Tuesday against Union. Salem cut the Union lead to-2-l -~-in- the ·first period while the teams skated 4 on 4. One minute into the second period, Gill Egan scored his second goal of the evening on a faceoff pass from Joe Caruso. With Union. ahead 3-1, Dan O'Neil scored on a rebound off a Scott Fitzgerald shot from the point. Salem State rallied to cut the def\cit to 4-3. Charlie Hauser scored an unassisted goal that broke the Salem momentum . Salem continued to -pressure, scoring on a power play goal brought the score to 5-4. Joe the out of at 19:47 The WRUC were: 1) Mike Merlo, 2) Gill Egan, 3) Joe Caruso. Hockey Notes Once given the chance, freshman Bill Kirby really came through with some S<>lid defense for the Dutchmen ... Bob Feinberg really gets the Dutchmen crowd going with his. 'winning team -- losing team' cheer . . . sophomore defen- seman Ben Maynard tallied four points vs. Potsdam ... the Dutchmen are only graduating three seniors this year which makes only five in two seasons. Gill Egan was a close second in voting for the superior academic achievement award. formance inspired Union to a . seven-goal outburst during the second 20 minutes en route to the victory. Brooks returned to action against second place North Adams and recorded 34 saves in a 5-1 victory. Last Saturday against New Haven, the Dutchmen dropped a 5-3 decision with Brooks coming up with 26 saves. This year against Division II opponents, Brooks shows an 8-6· 1 record with a goals against average of 3.61 and a save percentage of .893. He is ranked in the top 10 among-Division II goaltenders. Brooks, a liberal arts major at Union,.is the son of Ronald and Carol Brooks of Newmarket, Ont., Canada. MacFad4in, Dombrowski ToNCAAMeet Juniors Doug MacFaddin and Dennis Dombrowski will represent Union College in the NCAA wrestling tournament to be held this weekend at Cor- tland State. Both Dutchmen qualified for the event . last weekend in the New York State NCAA Qualifying Meet held at Trenton State College. This will be the second trip to the NCAA's for MacFaddin, who last year qualified for a \wild card\ berth. MacFaddin opened the New York State meet by dropping a 1-0 decision to Ron Adler of Rutgers. In the consolation rounds, Mac- faddin, who competes in the 150- pound weight class, beat Bob McColl of Glassboro, 7-6, and Joe Law of Hunter, 6-2. Dom- browski, who last year com- peted in the New York State meet but did not qualify for the NCAA's, placed second in the 177-pound division: He opened with a pin over Anthony McCann of Montclair St. in 4:02 and then defeated Ron Kilrf>y of Rutgers, 7-6. Dombrowski Wrenn, a three-year starter for the- Dutchwornen and captain · of this year's squad, · completed her best season in a Union uniform. In 17 gan1es this year, she scored 218 points for an average of ' 12.8. In the opening game of the CD Tournament, Carol had 20 points in a 69;.fi6 loss to Albany St. and contributed 16 markers during an 80-60 loss to the College of St. Rose in the con- S(}lation -eentest. Lynch, last season's Most Valuable Player and leading scorer, again ~ed the Dut- ch women by tallying 289 points in 17 games for a 17.0 average. Last season she had 289 points in 16 games and now shows a two-year career record of 578 points and an average of 17.5. Cay meshed 13 against Albany St. and 12 against St. Rose. Wernecke Captures Dukehart Award Freshman forward Bill Wernecke was awarded the Thomas Van Arden DUkehart Award on Saturday, February 20, in brief ceremonies prior to 1he Skaing Dutchmen's Division II hockey game against New Haven. The award, which originated during the 1977-78 season, is presented to the ,hockey player with the highest_ grade point average. Wernecke is only the second freshman to win the honor. The 5'8\ 155-pounder . has played in 27 of the Skating Dutchmen's 28 games this season. He shows five points on ' two goals and three assists and is part of the penalty killing unit that has allowed the opponents just 27 goals in 139 chances. Wernecke is the son of Mr. and Mrs. William Wernecks of Eagan, MN. Basketball Takes Three ••• By ERIC SAPIR Sports Staff At last the Union basketball team seems to have stabilized their play. The Dutchmen picked up three wins this past week, two at home vs. Clarkson and North Adams, and one away at St. Lawrence. Although they still seem to be playing up or down to the level of com- petition which their opponents supply, their level of play ap- pears to be \more\ controlled. This phenomenon . has been present throughout the season- victories over powerhouses Hamilton, Kings Point, St. Lawrence and losses to weaker teams such as Williams, Hobart and Middlebury. Of course, there is no problem in playing \up\ to the competition. It is the loss of enthusiasm and ef- fort which occurs when playing \down\ to the competition that has kept the Garnet from gaining the respect and recognition the team is capable of earning. This phenomenon was present this week as well, however, the Dutchmen were able to prevent their level of play from dropping to a losing level. This stabilization may have occurred too late to prevent playoff competition. Still, it is too early to tell, but a victory over RPI on Wed ... nesday, Feb. 24 will lift the Dutchmen's record to 13-11, the ' same record with which they entered the Upstate N.Y. ECAC post season tournament a year ago. The Golden Knights of Clarkson entered the Fieldhouse on Tuesday, Feb. 16, hoping to lift their record to an even 10-10. Joe Clinton demonstrated that he intended to thwart Clarkson's effort by canning a 20 foot jumpShot to open up the scoring. Clarkson's Rick Widden hit his first four shots from over 17 feet out to help Clarkson maintain a small lead for most of the first half. However, hot shooting by fresh· man forward Kevin Bartlett and sophomore guard Joe Wood Continued on page 19

