ORIENTATION '82 ~ 0 0 ..c: c. CXIl, No. 1 , IDIR,ol Dean of Students, Joseph L Mammola Aid Alter.natives Drastic cuts . ·in _ student financial aid have led many of us- to believe that there is_little or n(] money available for ,tl}e purpose of higher education. Feeling abandoned ·by the Reagan Administration, we have become convinced that there is nowhere else to turn for- help. Many stude1_1t~ hav~ given up on ever receivmg aid and have resigned themselves to a less expensive _ education or part-time attendance. However; these are not the only alter- natives available. There are numerous private and semi- private foundations which offer scholarships and loans to a variety of students, both at the graduate and under .. graduate levels. Union's Financial Aid Office has been. working on making students aware of those outside sources which are willing and able to supply educational grants. Ellen Frishberg, the Associate Director of the Financial Aid Office, has put together a . Resource Room which puts all the infor'mation - for_ grfidp,ate st;udy! and so91e. ·time spent looking mto outside sources ean turn out to . be surprisingly' succ.essful. The Resource Room is located on the second floor of Stanley Becker Hall next to the Financial Aid Office. It is open Monday thru Friday from 10:00 am to 4:00 pm (closed from 12-:00 to 1 :00) and you can contact Ellen Frishberg if you have. any questions. · The Reagan Administration might have abandoned students when we needed their help, but there are certainly enough organizations that recognize .the importance of educ.ation. o.ur hands are not ·tied. The m- forma.tion we need is now readily available. we need right at ow- fingertips; The Resource Room is, in - essence, a financial finding sourcelt contains a number of the most . cw-rent books and pamphlets which help us to match up our individual qualiflca~ions . with_ _ ~he scholarships and grants bemg offered. These scholarships are not based solely on faintly in- come. There are grants· awarded based on merit in fields from the Arts to the Sciences-not to mention all the areas of interest in betWeen. There are grants awarded· based on religion, nationality, ancestry and many m~re. To. find out· if you are eligible for -5 any~of tlie_grants being offered,. 5 spend _ some time in_. the u Financial Aid Resource Room ~ and you may find ~hel.'e is aid ~ available for· you after all. >- - Seniors who are considerlng .c attending graduate school will .e f.ind . the · . Resource_ Room i especially helpful. Few schools . . . - . . . . . c· tt are ill a position to offer any afd . The 1982 Orient~tlon ommi ee ••• 1877 Sept.ember 10, 1982 a caney ., Students Named By A. J. BRO~SKY Edttor-ln.Chlef pressed by the particular Forum that Union uses, the Student Affairs Council as a Joseph L. Mammola has been means for doing it, and I look at selected by the. Collegeto fill the myself as someone who has a lot position of Dean of Students. of experience working with Mammola, who received his students. (Jokingly) -I don't\ B.A. from St. Joseph's College pretend to understand anything in Philadelphia and bis .M.A. about them at all. fromNotre Dame, left Bucknell AJB: Are there specific University to join the Union programs you want to carry community. Mammola has over from your experiences at been at his new post for under a Bucknell? month and, as such,_ candidly Dean: I don't think that there admits that he has much to is ·any particular program. I learn about the operations and think each college campus has people of the College. Never- basic issues. Students that come theless Dean Mammola to a school like Union, I think gracio~ly accepted the op- ~d~rst~d very . cl~arl~ _ w~at portunity to speak to Con.- _ .dlst~nguu:~h~s t!J:Is msbtutl~n. col\deiettsis. · -- · · ·-~ -· - from others. It IS a very com- AJB: What improvements do- petitive place, it's a . place of you feel are necessary fn your academ~c accompllshment, area? . ac-ade~IC pur:pose and Dean: It's always difficult to ac!lde~c a~complishment. .. I . know what improvements you think It s In?portant that ~he are going to make until you student _ affarrs _ area provi~e understand the needs of the support· for the acader~nc students, of course, and the program, also . unde.rstanding particular problems associated that we are dealing With people with those people. You -know, bet~een the a~es of 18. and 21. l'm just not smart enough ·to Their sense of life style Is, tot~ll~ know what the problems are different than us older fog~es without having been here a so to speak. They are active, significant amount of time. I alive, vibrant and perh!ips, but can just tell you about the style not ~ecessarily, . at th~ir I_Dost that I would use to try and work creatl~e peaks m thell' l~ves. on the problems. I very much They J.ike to have a good tune, believe that students ought to be they like to work hard a_nd have ii}.volved in trying_ to reach a tremendous sense of Irony or decisions that affect their humor ~bout them~lves t~at welfare. I am very much im~ makes 1t worthl_Vhlle bemg - around them. I think I have a pretty good sense of humor. You Shouldn;t be in this position if you don't. To kind of sum that up, I don't have any particular programs that I want to impose on Union. But I can tell you that when I do it. . . I plan to listen well, look at the issues and try and do what is best for Union College. AJB: So you see no areas that need improvement? . Dean: I wouldn't go that far. I am concerned with crowding in the residence halls ... I am concerned that we have five persons in fow- person .suites. AJB: Some concerns are pusbiDg for an additional dorm. Would you support such a solution?· Dean: ·r think we would have to look at all the data. The problem with supporting a ttew dorm at this time is- that the college age population is shrinking in the next decade. And I think we have to be concerned about building a dorm at a time when enrollment at Union ·nugbt be shrinking. But it may well be that we need- to increase our residential circlllllSiances. That may mean a new dorm or expanding our present faQllities. . . l am concerned about the physical appearance of the College ••. I strongly support the present improvements being made and will work very hard to see that this is completed. I do think we need a college center. AJB: Are you familiar with the plans for a so-called Student Union located near Carnegie Hall? Dean: I am not intimately familiar with them, but I know they have been discussed. I ceJ;\tainly believe that that is a high priority for the College and I am prepared to support that. AJB: ConcordJensJs favors. a reworking of · the Conduct CommJttee and its disciplinary processes. Are you familiar with. the. topic? .. Dean: Again, most of my knowledge comes from reading the guidelines for the Student Conduct Committee. I am impressed by what I think is a certain looseness that I think needs to be tightened. Again, not knowing the history of the Committee, I want to see some changes there. One change . would be the inclusion of faculty and administrators on the Conduct Committee. AJB: What would that s~rve to do? Dean: I think it would ob- viously broaden representation on the Committee. It would allow all members of the university community to participate in the issues that come before the Committee: AJB: But aren't they usually student issues? Dean: Not ttecessarily. Yes, there may be a Student Conduct Committee, but the conduct of students affects all members of the university community. Again, I could be argued on. I'm saying that it's something that strikes me. . . it may possibly remind all of us that each of ow- behaviors affects all the con- stituents. AJB: Alcohol poHcy will be a major issue this year. What is the Administrations official stance or position? Dean: The official stance is that the College will follow the law of the State. That's not only its official stance, but its legal obligation. . ~ as the chief student affairs officer, my responisibility is to see that the · College follows the law in its official functions. That means the College cannot officially sanction drinking ·by minors ... There will be definite efforts made in the Pub and Rathskeller to enforce the new legislation. . . I am personally very concerned with students using alcohol. Mainly because I have had to do some terrible things when I deal with people like that.

Page 2 OONOOBDIENSI8 1 OrientatWn '88, September 11~ 1981 Union's Past The Union of 1966 has been bequeather a noble inheritance. This inheritance is the rich traditions, values, and history of Union College. The Orien~ tation Committee of 1983. believes that rediscovering Union's past will generate a greater sense of pride in the 1 college Discovering \roots\ here at Union ties one to the past, helps in the understanding of the present. From its foun .. ding in 1795 as the first non· denominationa~ college in America to the present, Union has served as a leader in American higher education. Union has always been a place of firsts. It is now up to the· Class of '86 to carry on in the spirit Qf the 190 Union classes that have preceded. Did you know that .•. president of Union when Virginia State convention. Abraham Lincoln was born and FitzHugh Ludlow, Class of was still president when he was 1856, was the author of the assassinated. College alma mater and a The movie, ''The Way We reknoWiled·author in hiSday. He Were,\ was filmed at Union. was also a heavy drug Uller and Robert Redford stayed in a an expert on their effects, types trailer behind South College and Ingestion. A library in San during the filming. Francisco devoted to dtugs.and Hans Groote's Kill (the their harmful consequ~nces is \brook that bounds through ye . named in his. honor. Old Union's Grounds,\ as the Chester Arthur, Class of 1848, alma mater suggests) was succeeded James. A. .Oarfieldas named after a Dutch farmer President oftheUnitedStates in whose fields covered much of . 1881. His administration saw the the present campus. (Until the. passage of a Civil Service mid-1960's it was tradition for Reform Act and tbe creation of fr~shrnen to . clean up Hans a new, strong navy ln addition Groote's Kill during orien- to the style and character he tation.) brought_ to the office. He Jackson's Garden was 'begun ascended to the presidency in the 1820s by PrQfessor Isaac upon ,Garfield's assassination Jackson, whose ·home stood but was not ·renominated for the · alongside North College. His office .in 1884. · toolshed can still be found In the Memorial Chapel, a behind North College, near the portrait of William Seward Union was the first college Gardens. Within the Garden are (1820) faces that of. Robert chartered by the Regents of the two Ginko trees (the first Toombs (1828}as the men faced State of New York and the brought to America from one another· in 1861, when one original charter can be found in Japan), remains of.a trench dug was the Secretary of State in the Jean Pelletierre's office in the by an ROTC unit during the Federal Cabinet and the other library. Civil War, and more than 100 held the similar position in the Union's campus, or more species of rare plants, trees, Confederacy. familiarly \The Grounds,\ was shrubs, and vines. Squire Whipple, Class of 1830, the first in America to have an The Universities of ntinois, the inventor of the iron truss articulated architectural plan. Iowa, Michigan, as well as bridge, whose 1847 public~tion, It was designed in 1813 by Vassar, Smith, and Elmira \Work on Bridge Building,'' French atchitect Joseph Colleges all count Union alumni was used as a guide in the Jacques Ramee. as their first presidents. construction of bridges span• Union College is \The Mother Union alumni include a ning the Ohio, Missouri, and of Fraternities.\ The first president of the United States, Mississippi Rivers, truly college fraternities in America at least six cabinet secretaries, opened the Western Frontiers were established right here at 13 United States Senators, 91 for settlement. One of his Union: Kappa Alpha (1825), members of the House of original iron truss bridges was Sigma Phi (1827), Delta Phi Representatives, 12 governors, restored and now spans \the (1827), and later, Psi Upsilon 149 important diplomats, 200 brook' that bounds'' behind the (1833), Chi Psi (1841), and Theta judges, and 86 college rink. Delta (;\hi (1847). presidents. When reading over College The first gymnasiwn erected Union's colors•- garnet and essay questions, one frequently in America, Old Gym Hall, was· white-were determined by the comes across the infamous completed in 1874. results of a crewing race with \What will you give to the The Nott Memorial Harvard .. Harvard, which also college in the four years that \unquestionably the symbol of laid claim to these colors, lost you spend there?'', This Union College,\ is one of two 16 • the race. Its colors are now question seems silly-'Well, 1 sided buildings in the Western crimson and white. will give them approximately Hemisphere. (The other is said Until the mid~1950s freshman $40,000, prestige if I become to be a Holiday Inn in Nashville, hazing - was an accepted famous, and maybe more Tenn.). \The Nott\ begun in practice at Union. Freshmen money when I die.' In reality, 1858, is listed in the United were required to dress up in college is much more than the States Register of Historic their pajamas and parade trade of money for an Places. The inscription, in through downtown Schenec· education. Each college has its Hebrew, reads, \The day is tady. own personality; one which is short, the work is great, the At one time there was a path shaped by those attending it and master presses the workmen., that led to the center of campus another by those who have Union's radio station, WRUC, that only seniors were allowed already passed through its is America's first college radio to walk on. The path was gates. Union College is rich in station. located between Lamont House traditions, values, and history. South College, built in 1812, is and the Humanities building, The theme of Orientation this the oldest continuously and was named Senior Path. year is 'Union College Opens inhabited male dormitory in Union's first president, John Doors', but the Orientation America. Blair Smith, received a salary Committee of 1982 hopes that Eliphalet Nott was president of$1,100per year. He also was a you will take the initiative and of Union from 1804 to 1866, the close associate of James open some of the doors which longest tenure of any American Madison in carrying through have been shut, discover college president. He was the Federal Constitution in the Union's past and therefore -~....,...--.-::;;.;;;;;;;;;~~~-r-+----------un:..,~d::e::rs:ta:n::_d;he pres~nt. he Dutch Hollow· Pub Welcomes the Classes of: For: Breakfast, Lunch and Dinner Plus~ A mixed drink bar and frequent live entertainment . 1983 1984 1985\ 1986 Concordiensis September 23~ 1932 Dr. Day Delivers Address To ·Incoming Freshmen \Ideals for College Men,\ SubJ'ect C·hosen. by President in Orientation Week Address . On Tbul'IJday, $ept. 111, at 10 A.· you are here ,good hal>lts and drop .il., In th~ Memorial Chapel, In an bad ones. \rhe mpst· 'Important adcll\ttlll \Ide• for QQl.ege !.fen\ to thing Is to tonn character. 'l'O· have ·. t!Jt treihmen, Dr. Frank Parker. character Is to decide In adV\ance Jli.Y, Prel!lkknt of Union CoUege, · what you are going to do and then empl!.ulled the ~portance of hi'.Ve courage enough to follow 01,1t · oh008h:ag carefully one'a prof,l!lslon. . tht11 line of conduct. Yo11 can de- He· altc) uqed. the newcomers to do velop your character in this man- tile tblap tbat they came here for. ner. Learn to be happy. Yo11 can \liy preHnt duty tbla morning Is only be :1\appy wl;len you felt you · · to welcome yo'l,l to \•lie college. 1 have accomplllibed something, w}len wl•h I coulcl really uy something you have done the thing you have · that would be of value to you, make !let .out to do. To be happy you 10 me Impression on your mind, help ehould develop a heal'thY clean body . you In the Ute . you are colng to and le~~orn to play two or thre~ ath- bave In the college hereafter. I ·· letlc g!Uiles. Whatever you do, do . . • don't .know how much good speech- it to 'the very beat of your ability: . ea do. I suppose you have listened The thing that wUI. give you the , to a great many or them, heard a .. : mo•t pleasure Is t,o· accom ~llsh :your . great deal or advice. I was trying. studies. Ev~ry .boy ahoyld set up a to think this morning how much i . ach~ule . as to how ~uch be . will . · remember of speeches I have heard.. study, · Yo1,1 m1,1st learn to 4o thln~:ts I don't know how much you will bY yourself, Lay out progr&llls for remember a year hence, a week yourself~ You must ac~umulate hence, or even 11. day .hence. Some : knowledge about varlot~s parts of . Umes a happy phraSe sticks In your . the world as wei~ as of this cou\!- memoi'y. I r-emember when I was try. You must accomplish l!vecy:- a freshman spmebody came to thing tot yourself. Anott'!er thing, speak 'In the college where I was decide as soon as ,possible what you going to study. Titls person said, • are goin-g to try to be or do. I wpllld \Build up a republic In your- own like to talk with you througho 11 t breast that will be Independent.\ the . year, l!.elp and advise you· to This made quite an Impression on decide you are going to be lind .what • me. I resolved to build up such a. you are going to do .. A great tra$'- republlc to malte me fndenendent. l: l!dy In llfe.,'s to get Into the wrong would be In things but I wo11ld have profel!l!lon. WI'ODI' Professtou · my own republic. There Is too much speech-making. We want moro doers In the world. There are too Dr. Day read a letter he received · many pretenders who do not this morning from an old friend amount to much. Real people do which Illustrated the ·calamity that things and not talk about them. Do follows ,getting Into the wrong pro- a man's work every day. One thing . fesslon. The man Is a brilliant that always strikes me as rather scholar by instinct, but who thought funny about lite is that here you it was more important to make are about 240 ot you In the class lots o' money. who all come here presumably to \You must learn the lm]lortance . be students, to learn to think, to of deciding the right career. As I be something, and yet the stranre look In the world people are dlvid· thing Is that .after- you· get out of ed. Into the ctass ot those v;.ho try b.ere a large ftUlpber decide that to get -~ll grab and .those who try you won't do· the thing you came to give In and those who are soft here for. There Is alway!! a .cer- and those who ~tre strong and ){now taln number of wasters. People how to put something through. have wrong Ideas about college. A Try to be manly men. Learn to en- lot of fellows would be much better dure. It you only learn to endure ott If they were put In coal mines so that you won't squeal,. quit, or · for four years than It they came lie down this Is a wonderful thing. here to be lounge lizards and Idlers. You may be popular one year and You come here presumably to learn. I down another year. p 0 the best Good Habits you can. Form character ln college \I 1UJi supposed to speak of some of the Ideals of college men and what you want to do here. There are some very .simple things I would like Union College men tQ be. I would like you to form while and be able to stick to a line of action. Great men come from ttiis college and 'it is up to -you to play your part. Don't be satisfied with the easy things. Decide that you are going to add to the useful men of this time.'' Cabaret Welcomes Class of '86 AHn: Musicians, Magicians, Comedians, Actors: COME· FORTH and DISPLAY YOUR TALENTS!! The ihursday evening Student Run Cabarets offer a unique opportunity for amateur talent to perform· in a low'-key and comfortable at- mosphere. Get a taste of What it's at·t ab~ut at our special orientation shows. We encourage you -class of '86, to get your acts together and · -COME JOIN THE CABARET!!! Auditions for Fall Term Cabarets to be held on Tuesday, Se~t. 21st at 7:30p.m. in the CABARET room. Those interested please contact us tflrough the Student Activities Office and look out for more postt[!d information. By ( AUrigl doesn't- anything gone wr< you're ol on your But, wh come u ··questton where :t1 81llOAg't] you in ~ administ pac~, suggesti genuine For e: really c; mate, : creasin~ trying to seem to I the Dear there to negie, I: residenc• Mrs. B Debbie Brewstei the food Gray is i deal wiJ problem plans. All rigl room.ant. if you're to pay f• Well, tr< Becker l Aid Offic building Office-r visit-?) director I 1 If yo to Mak Be • Offeri prime salai:bl • Servit: • Enjoy Outdo thru1 I • NOlf!

Page 2 CONOOBDIENSIS, Orlentatmn ,81, Septembe.r 11, 198B U . ' p DIOD S ast The Union of 1986 has been bequeather a noble inheritance. This inheritance is the rich traditions, values, and history of Union College. The Orien- tation Committee of 1982 believes that rediscovering UniOiil's past will generate a greater sense of pride in the. college Discovering \roots\ here at Union ties one to the past, helps in the understanding of the present. From its foun . ding in 1795 as the first non- denominational cellege in America t0 the present, Union bas served as a leader in American higher education. Union has always been a place of firsts. It is now up to the Class of '86 to carry on in the spirit of the 190 Union classes that have preceded. Did you knnw that ... president of Union when VirginiaState convention. Abraham Lincaln was born and Fitzl-lugh Ludlow, Class of was still president when he was 1856, was the author of the assassinated. College alma mater and a The movie, \The Way We reknoW11ed author in his day. He Were,'' was filmed at Union. was als<J a heavy drug user and Robert Redford stayed in a an expert on their effects, types trailer behind South College and ingestion. A library in San during the filming. Francisco devoted to drugs and Hans Groote's KiH (the their halmf.ul consequences is ''br00k that bounds through ye named in his honor. Old Union's Grounds,'' as the ChEster Artllur, aass of 1848, alma mater suggests) was succeeded James A. Garfield as named after a Dutch farmer Preside11tofthe United States in whose fields covered much of. 11181. His administration saw the the present campus. (UntU the. passage of a Civil Service mid-1960's it was tradition fer Re£orrn Act and the creation of freshmen to clean up Hans a lleV\', strong navy in addition Groote's Kill during orien- to tile style and character he tation.) brought to the office. He Jackscn's Garden was begun ascended to the presidency in the 1820s by Professer Isaac upon Garfield's assassination Jackson, whose home stood but was not renominated for the alongside North CoUege. His office in NJ84. toolshed can still be fcund In the Memorial Chapel, a bellind North College, near the portrait of William Seward Union was the first college Gardens. Within the Garden are (HI20) faces that of Robert chartered by the Regents af the two Ginko trees (the first Toonbs (lS28) as the men faced State of New York and the brought to America from one another in 1861, when one original charter can be found in Japan), remains of a trench dug wast:he Secretary of State in the Jean Pelletierre's office in the by an ROTC unit during the Federal Cabinet and the ather library. Civil War, and more than 100 held the similar position in the Union's campus, or more species of rare plants, trees, Confederacy. familiarly \The Grounds,\ was shrubs, and vines. Sqll.ire Whipple, Class of 1830, the first in America to have an The Universities of illinois, the inventor of the iron truss articulated architectural plan. Iowa, Michigan, as well as bridge, whose 1847 publication, It was designed in 1813 by Vassar, Smith, and Elmira \Work on Bridge Building,\ French atchitect Joseph Colleges all count Union alwnni was used as a guide in the Jacques Ramee. as their first presidents. construction of bridges span- Union College is \The Mother Union alumni include a ning the Ohio, Missouri, and of Fraternities.\ The first president of the United States, Mississippi Rivers, truly college fraternities in America at least six cabinet secretaries, opene<l the Western Frontiers were established right here at 13 United States Senators, 91 for settlement. One of his Union: Kappa Alpha (1825), members of the House of original iron truss bridges was Sigma Phi (1827), Delta Phi Representatives, 12 governors, restored and now spans \the (1827), and later, Psi Upsilon 149 important diplomats, 2()0 brook· that bounds\ behind the (1833), Chi Psi (1841), and Theta judges, and 86 college rink. Delta Chi ( 1847). presidents. When reading over College The first gymnasiwn erected Union's colors--garnet and esSJly quEstions, one frequently in America, Old Gym Hall, was white-were determined by the comes across the infamous completed in 1874. results of a crewing race with \What will you give to the The Nott Memorial Harvard. Harvard, which also collegE in the four years that \unquestionably the symbol of laid claim to these colors, lost you spEnd there?\. This Union College,\ is one of two 16- the race. Its colors are now questi<m seems silly-'Well, I sided buildings in the Western crimson and white. will give them approximately Hemisphere. fThe other is said Until the mid-1950s freshman $40,000, prestige if 1 become to be a Holiday Inn in Nashville, hazing · was an accepted famous, and maybe more Tenn.). \The Nott\ begun in practice at Union. Freshmen money when I die.' In reality, 1858, is listed in the United were required to dress up in college is much more than the States Register of Historic their pajamas and parade trade of money for an Places. The inscription, in through downtown Schenec- ed11cat.ion. Each college has its Hebrew, reads, \The day is tady · own J>ersonality; one which is short, the work is great, the At one time there was a path shapedbythoseattending it and master presses the workmen.\ that led to the center of campus an(}ther by those who have Union's radio station, WRUC, that only seniors were allowed already passed through its is America's first college radio to walk on. The path was gates. Union College is rich in station. located between Lamont House traditi<lns, values, and history. South College, built in 18l 2, is and the Humanities building, The theme of Orientation this the oldest continuously and was named Senior Path. year is 'Union College Opens inhabited male dormitory in Union's first president, John Doors', but the Orientation America. Blair Smith, received a salary Cornrrllttee of 1982 hopes that Eliphalet Nott was president of $1,100 per year. He also was a you will take the initiative and of Union from 1804 to 1866, the close associate of James open S()Ine of the doors which longest tenure of any American Madison in carrying through have been shut, discover college president. He was the Federal Constitution in the Union ~s past and therefore ___ ----~-~-----...:un:.:;d=E.:.::rs::..:t:an=d the present. __.._..-::;;~....-r· .., ' he Dutch Hollow Pub Welcomes the Classes of: For: Breakfast, lunch and D·inner Plus- A mixed drink bar and frequent I ive entertainment. 1983 1984 1985 1986 - Concordiensis September 23, 1932 Dr. Day Delivers Address To ·Incoming Freshmen \Ideals for College Men,\ SubJ'ect Chosen by President in Orientation Week Address On Tbureday, Sept. 115, at 10 A. Ji., 111 tbe Memonat Chapel, In an: addi'NI \Ideal.t for College Men\ to the freshmen, Dr. Frank Parker DQ, pNiolident of Union College emphU!sed the importance oi ehOO.lng carefully one's proression. He aJ8o urged the newcomel\'!! to do the ·thfnp tbat tbey cu.me here tor. you are here good habits and drop bad ones. The most· important · thing Is to farm character. To have · character Is to decide In advance what you are going to do and then have courage enough to follow out · this line of conduct. You can de- velop your character in this man- ner. Learn to be happy. You can \My PreHDt duty this momlng ts only be happy when you felt you . to welcome you to the college. 1 have accomplished something, when . wish I could really say something you have done the thing you have that would' be of value to you, make·. set out to do. To be happy you · aome lmpreSBion on your mind, help · should develop a healthy clean bod~· you Ia the Ute you are rolng to and learn to play two or three alb- have In the college hereafter. 1 letlc games. Whatever you do, do don't know how much good speech- It to the very best of your ability. es do. I suppose you have listened The thing that will give you the to a great many ot them heard a , 1 most pleasure is to accomplish your great deal of advice. I V:a.s trying :, studies. Every boy should set up a to think this morning how much y I schedule u to how much he will remember of speeches r have heard. · 11tudy. You must learn to do things I don't know how much you will by yourself. Lay out programs for remember a year hence, a weelt yourself. You must accum.ulate hence, or even a day hence. Some knowledge about various parts of times a happy phrase sticks In your the world as well as of this coun- memory. I remember when I was try. You must accomplish every- a rreshman somebody came to thing for yourself. Another thing, spealt In the college where I was decide as soon as possible what you going to study. This person said, are going to try to be or do. I would \Build up a republic In your own like to talk With you throughout breast that wm be independent.\ the year, help and advise you to This made quite an Impression on decide you are going to be and what me. I resolved to build up such a you are going to do. A great trag- republic to make me Independent. I edy In lite Is to get Into the wrong would be In things but I would have Profession.\ my own republic. There is too much spee<:h-makfng. We want moro doers in the world. There are too many pretenders who do not amount to much. Real people do things and not talk about them. Do a man's work every day. One thing I that always strikes me as rather tunny about Ute Is that here you are about 240 of you In the class who all come here presumably to be students, to learn to think, to be something, and yet the strance thing Is that after you get out of here a large number decide that you won't do the thing you came here for. There Is always a cer- tain number of wasters. People , have wrong Ideas about college. A J lot or fellows would be much better 1 oft It they were put In coal mines I for tour years than if they came here to be lounge lizards and Idlers. 1 You come here presumably to learn.; GGod Habits \I am supposed to speak of some of the ldeala of college men and what you want to do here. There are some very simple things I would like Union College men to be. I would like you to form while i I Wron&' Profesatona Dr. Day read a letter he received this morning from an old friend Which Illustrated the calamity that follows getting into the wrong pro- fession. The man is a brilliant scholar by Instinct, but who thought It was more Important to make lots or money. \You must learn the Importance of deciding the right career. As I look In the world people are divid- ed Into the class or those who try to get and grab and those who try to give In and those who are soft and those who are strong and know how to put something through. Try to be manly men. Learn to en- dure. It' you only learn to endure so that you won't squeal, quit, or lie down this Is a wonderful thing. You may be popular one year and down another year. Do the best you can. Form character In college and be able to stick to a line of action. Great men come from this college and it is up to you to play your part. Don•t be satisfied with the easy things. Decide that you are going to add to the useful men of this time.\ Cabaret Welcomes Class of '86 Attn: Musicians, Magicians, Comedians, Actors: COME FORTH and DISPLAY YOUR TALENTS!! The Thursday evening Student Run Cabarets offer a unique opportunity for amateur talent to perform in a low-key and comfortable at- mosphere. Get a taste of what it's all about at our special orientation shows. We encourage you -class of '86, to get your acts together and COME JOIN THE CABARET!!! Auditions for Fa II Term Cabarets to be held on Tuesday, Sept. 21st at 7:30p.m. in the CABARET room. Those interested please contact us through the Student Activities Office and look out for more posted information. w By I All ri~ doesn't anythinJ gone wr you're CJ on your But, wl come · questior where 1 among 1 you in adminis pack, suggest genuine For E really c mate, creasin tryingtc seem to the Dea there to negie, l residenc Mrs. I Debbie Brewste the foo Gray is deal w problen plans. All ri~ room ar if you'rE to pay J Well, tr Becker Aid Offi1 buildin! Office- visit?) director 1 120· ·Offer priml sa lao • Servi • Enjo~ Outd• thru· 1•N01V

2 in 'tan~ out can you· you ath- · do. the· · a· ngs tor . tlld to ag~ ke ry ry ~n­ or or to at ul I (lONOORDIENSIS,. Orientation '81, September 1.1, 1981 Page 3 By CORY LEWKOWICZ All right, as fre~en so .far it doesn't· appear as though anything too disastrous ha~ gone wr,ong. Good! That means you're off to a really good start on your career through Union. But, what ·if something. does corne up, or you have a ·qtrestton, and ,aren't too sur~ whete to tu,n? N9 problem; arnong·the. many people to help you in any way posSible, _t}le administrators arg leading the paclt, complete With suggestions, . support ··and genuine concern. · For examl}le, what . if you really can't stand your rQOmu mate, yQu're growing in .. creasing}y. frustrated, and trying tc> work lt .out just doesn'f seem to help? Well, Dave Wood; the Dean of Residence Life, is there to. help. LQcated in Car- negie, Dave fs . in charge of residence life, along with staff Mrs. Bogar, Chip· Morris, Debbie· B'aertschi, and Bob Brewster~ Just across the haU is the food service office: Jan Gray is in charge, prepared to deal with any· questions of problems relatjng to meal plans. . . All right, now that we've got room .and board covered, what if you're wondering about. Mw to pay for this whole deal??? Well, trot on over to Stanley Becker Hall, to the Financial Aid Office (located in the same building· as the Admi~sions Office-remember that fateful visit·?) Bob Massa is the director here, and can answer a multitude of questions dealing with fin~cial aid and other mo11ey concerns. . · Now let's assume that your r()Omisgreat, .mealsceollldll't be better and who the heck needs to .wol\J'y about money anyhow? Let's face it; we're all here. to study I;Uld leat'(l a bit. So., if. any problem should ariSe where Should you go? Well Dean Nelson (associate dean ·of un- dergraduate students) and Dean Kaplan· {assoc. dean of fa.culty) are very helpful, frtendly people r-eady to help in any way they can. The office is hidden jlist a. bit, tucked away on the first .floor .of. the .Science and Engineering buildmg. · Now let's ·turn to that ever popular question of care.er clloice •. Before you panic you · can turn to Pat Matteo,· Jane Wood, and the. entire- career ceriter staff, to help you decide ·what you w:anf to do. Beyond i~ ·having appointments with the~e people · to help you to defme your goals, there is a career library and - plent): .of resource::; available. Every year .~~r~gement~ are. m4!de for mterv1ews mth various companies looking for em- ployees. _(Helpful hint: Keep your eyes open for. notices in yo.ur mailbox about workshops and internshipS.. Shhhh: yQu heard it bere first!) . Speaking of Jane Wood, that leads to a discussion of another crucial office on campus the Student Activities Office. jane in addition to working in th~ career center is also assistant dean of students, along with Mike Andolina. They along with Dean Mammola (also a newcomer to Union) and . LerraineMarra (coordinator of student a~tivities) really run the campus. Mike and Jane are advisers for many organizations,. ranging. from fraternities .and sororities to Your favorite--the ORIEN- TATION COMMI'ITEE! Dean Mammola dealS with a lot of administrative deelsions, dealing with students in a variety of ways {disciplinary .problems, leaves of absence etc:) Enough on academics. . . . now let's touch briefly on Lorraine Marra. Basically any questions yoq ever have about the· scho.ol, don't hesitate to ask .Lorraine. She's a· gr .. eat lady, and coordinates all of the ac- tivities on campus. · · · Enough ofthis brief overview. The point to be made here is very simple: The ad- ministrators are here to help you, and will, if they know what you need help with. Don't think twice about asking; .they're good people, and will do what they can. Above all, enjoy yourself as you open your own doors!! Freshmen GET INVOLVED Confused?? Two minptes after Y'01l arrive at your dorm room, somebody comes rllllJling into your room and $8Ys, \Hi I am yo1.1r OA.\ Then, another persons walks in ·and greets you with \I am going to be your RA this year.\ After yoll just :beginto get settled, you are sent to ~ meeting wllere you are introduced to your FOA. Confused? ..._, This is. just the beginning. Do you kriow your Student ID number? Don't you know what Liberal Learning category that course is? What room is Chem 10 recitation in? MaHbox nwnber? Forget your room k~y? Think you will never be · able to cope? Don't worry, things will eventually fall into place. And if you need any help, here are a few PQinters. . . . DO-ask questions. Professors and students are willing .to help you out with any problems you might encounter during your years at Union. DON'T-let your work pile up. Pace yourself accordingly, and you should be able to stay on top of things. DO-take advantage of the estracurricular activities that Union has to offer. Speakers, clubs, community services, intramurals, committees, concerts .... DON'T-over-extend your- self. Better to participate in a few ac!tivities a=td to enjoy them than to try to cram too many into a twenty-four hour day. DO--be .patient with your roommates. DON'T--close yourself off from the outside world. Read a paper, watch the news, or take a walk into downtown Schenec- tady. DO-relax, and have a .great time! ! ! ! ! ! H ! Law Group States Its Case ByE.O. Students interested in pre-law will not be disappointed with the educational or informational res()urces they discover here at Union, Offerings that are either student organized or course based may be found. Refounded in 1981, the Pre- law Society has quickly become an established factor in student activity. The club -reached its objectives of providing in- . formation and counseling last year through·variou.'l programs which shall be continued and expanded upon this year. Through the Society, in- ternships in the Albany- Schenectady area were set up to provide students with first hand knowledge of legal work. A day trip - to Albany Law School orga~ized by the club, dispelled fears of Paper Chase-like classes. On campus; speakers lectured on topics of interest to pre-law students and the general student body. This year's president of Pre- Law Society is junior, John Bobona. Be on the lookout for meeting times in your mailbox. TbeQpenDmr For the Body Internships in Washington D.C. and Albany, New York are also available through certain political science courses. Students are carefully screened and then chosen for work in state legislative and congressional offices. Although the students do not receive any mon~tary recompense, they do receive an unusual opportunity to participate in and learn of law and politics. Of course, one of the most accessible fonns of pre-law counseling are the professors of the Political Science Depart- ment~ _ Although Professor Joseph Board is the official pre- law advisor all members of the department are knowledgeable on pre-law topics. Pre-law students should keep their eyes and ears open at the Activities Expo for the Pre-Law Society and throughout the year for speakers and other special events. t20-t36 ]~~. SCbenoctad\{,NQ If you can't 'make. it to the coast . . . Make it to the Cranberry Bog. Restaurant & Bar • Offering a new aDd varied menu specializina in fresh seafood lllo ~ • prime rib, charbroiled steaks and veal. Omelettes, salat:ls, hearty sandwi~hes and burgei:s.~r:e also available. • Serving Dinner nitely $:00-10:00, Saturday 'til 11:00 . • Enjoy cocktails or Qght diDihS in our new Greenhouse and Outdoor Oeck. Open from q:30 a.m. to 2~30 a.m. Sunday thru Tuesday: 'til 4:00 a.m:Wednesday thru Saturday. I • NO_. SERVING SUND:\Y \BRUNCH 11:~0 -'·\'· TOJ:OO P.M. 56 Wolf Road 459·'5110 ByDWM Since the unpacking is almost finished and courses are almost set, the next step is to get in· valved; and the easiest way to accomplish this is through intramurals. Intramural&- are headed this yc!ar by Bo.b Montana, who has just joined the staff after three years of coaching basketball at Hamilton. For the upcoming school year Coach Montana has set up a program consisting of intramur.als and physical fit- ness classes. Intramurals consists of men, women, and co-ed teams. All information about these teams will be presented in an in· tramurals handbook. which will be placed in all students' mailbo~es. one . major. point Coach ·Montana feels needs to be stresses is that the team . meeting~ scheduled in the handbook are mandatory, and failure to show up will result in disqualificatiqn. Physict;ll fitness classes will also be offered this fall. Classes that are offered free of charge mclude: exerciSe class one physica'l fintess relaxation prog_rarn, physical fitness ~e.ig~t traif\ing and con- diti~\:!-ng senior li!esaving, and ~ertif1cation in ftrst aid and CPR. Classes offered at a bost - includfi!: physical fitness exer<:ise' class two ($30), aerobic dance classes one and twq ($25), scuba diving (ten- tative fee), and karate (also tentative). · With such a large selection there should be something to interest everyone. Please sign up as soon as possible so scheduling can get under way. If · there are any questions, contact Bob Montana at 6911, or in person at the Alumni Gym. /rlrY·~~J~ ~d~;J ·d~~~ ~d~~ •· /1/%~~ ~dad ~-- ff?'e: / tl-.P Jat. ;It?-.§

- - t in drop rtant have· 1ance then I' out r1 de- man- 1 can you. when have you bod~· ath- l, do llity. the your up a . will lngs 1 for 1late s or oun- ·ery- tlng, you mid lOUt 1 to rhat ra.g- ong ved end hat Jro- ant ght 1ke t1ce B I 'id- try try oft LOW gh. en- ure 01' ng. Lnd est lge of his to led 1at ful 1 .• / CONOORDJENSIS, Orientatio-n '8B, September 11, 198S PageS Who's Who at UColi?··I Confused?? By CORY LEWKOWICZ All right, as freshmen so far it doesn't appear as though anything too disastrous has gone wrong. Good! That means you're off to a really good start on your career through Union. But, wi:Jat if something does come up, or you have a question, and aren't too sure where to tum? No problem; among the many people to help you in any way possible, the administrators are leading the pack, complete with suggestions, support and genuine concern. For example, what if you really can't stand your room- mate, you're growing in- creasingly frustrated, and trying to work it out just doesn't seem to help? Well, Dave Weod, the Dean of Residence Life, is there to help. Located ill Car- negie, Dave is in charge of residence life, along with staff Mrs. Bogar, Chip Morris, Debbie Baertschi, and Bob Brewster. Just acress the hall is the food service office. Jan Gray is in charge, prepared to deal with any questions of problems relating to meal plans. All right, now that we've got room and board covered, what if you're wondering about how to pay for this whole deal? ? ? Well, trot on over to Stanley Becker Hall, to the Financial Aid Office (located in the same building as the Admissions Office-remember that fateful visit?) Bob Massa is the director here, and can answer a multitude of questions dealing with financial aid and other money concerns. Now let's assume that your room is great, meals couldn't be better and who the heck needs to worry a'bout money anyhow? Let's face it; we•re all here to study and leam a bit. So, if any problem should arise where should you go? Well Dean Nelson (associate dean of un- dergraduate students) and Dean Kaplan (assoc. dean .of faculty) are very helpful friendly people ready to help ~ any way they can. The office is hidden just a bit, tucked away on the first floor of the Science and Engineering building. Now let's turn to that ever popular question of career choice. Before you panic you can turn to Pat Matteo, Jane Wood, and the entire career center staff, to help you decide what you want to do. Beyond just having appointments with the~e people to help you to defme your goals, there is a career library and plenty of resources available. Every year arrangements are made for interviews with various companies looking for em- ployees. (Helpful hint: Keep your eyes open for notices in your mailbox about workshops and internships. Shhhh: you heard it here first ! ) Speaking of Jane Wood, that leads to a discussion of another crucial office on campus, the Student Activities Office. Jane in addition to working in th~ career center is also assistant dean of students, along with TbeQpenDmr 120 -t36 Jll\6 ~t. Scbenectad't{, m f>ml)~ s Gifl~ s <i.r£ding Co~ s ~e~ If you can't make it to the coast ... Make it to the Cranberry Bog Restaurant & Bar • Offering a new and varied menu specializing in fr~h seafood, prime rib. charbroiled steaks and veal. Omelettes, sala<ts, bearty sandwi~hes and burger:sare also available. • Serving Dinner nitely 5:00-10:00, Saturday 'tilll:OO • Enjoy cocktails or ligbt dining in our new Greenhouse and Outdoor Deck. Open from 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 a.m. Sunday thru Tuesday; 'til 4:00a.m. -Wednesday thru Saturday. I • NO,., SERVING SUNDA \'BRUNCH l J :30 A.M. TO 3:00P.M. The @!fiberr~ BOG - RE.S'Ii\I.JRIIN & f!M 56 Wolf Road 459-5110 Mike Andolina. They along with Dean Marnmola (also a newcomer to Union) and Lorraine Marra (coordinator of student a~tivities) really run the campus. Mike and Jane are advisers for many organizations, ranging from fraternities and sororities to Your favorite-the ORIEN- TATION COMMITTEE! Dean Mammola deals with a lot of administrative decisions, dealing with students in a variety of ways (disciplinary problems, leaves of absence etc.) Enough on academics. . . . now let's touch briefly on Lorraine Marra. Basically any questions you ever have about the school, don't hesitate to ask Lorraine. She's a great lady, and coordinates all of the ac- tivities on campus. Enough of this brief overview. The point to be made here is very simple: The ad- ministrators are here to help you, and will, if they know what you need help with. Don't think twice about asking; they're good people, and will do what they can. Above all, enjoy yourself as you open your own doors!! Freshmen GET INVOLVED Two minutes after you arrive at your dorm room, somebody comes running into your room and says, \Hi I am your OA.\ Then, another persons walks in and greets you with \I am going to be your RA this year.\ After you just begin to get settled, you are sent to a meeting where you are introduced to your FOA. Confused? This is just the beginning. Do you know your Student ID number? Don't you know what Liberal Learning category that course is? What room is Chern 10 recitation in? Mailbox number? Forget your room key? Think you will never be able to cope? Don't worry, things will eventually fall into place. And if you need any help, here are a few pointers. . . . DO-ask questions. Professors and students are willing to help you out with any problems you might encounter during your years at Union. DON'T-let your work pile up. Pace yourself accordingly, and you should be able to stay on top of things. D~take advantage of the estracurricular activities that Union has to offer. Speakers, clubs, community services, intramurals, committees, concerts .... DON'T;....over-extend your- self. Better to participate in a few activities a::td to enjoy them than to try to cram too many into a twenty-four hour day. DO--be patient with your roommates. DON'T~~close yourself off from the outside world. Read a paper, watch the news, or take a walk into downtown Schenec- tady. Do-relax, and have a great time! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! Law Group States Its Case ByE.O. Students interested in pre-law will not be disappointed with the educational or informational resources they discover here at Union. Offerings that are either student organized or course based may be found. RefoWlded in 1981, the Pre- law Society has quickly become an established factor in student activity. The club reached its objectives of providing in- formation and counseling last ye~r through varioul! programs which shall be continued and expanded upon this year. Through the Society, in- ternships in the Albany- Schenectady area were set up to provide students with first hand knowledge of legal work. A day trip to Albany Law School organized by the club, dispelled fears· of Paper Chase-like classes. On campus, speakers lectured on topics of interest to pre-law students and the general student body. This year's president of Pre- Law Society is junior, John Bobona. Be on the lookout for meeting times in your mailbox. For the Body Internships in Washington D.C. and Albany, New York are also available through certain political science courses. Students are carefully screened and then chosen for work in state legislative and congressional offices. Although the students do not receive any nnon~tary reconapense, they do recetve an unusual opportWlity to participate in and learn of law and politics. Of course, one of the most accessible forms of pre-law counseling are the professors of the Political Science Depart- mtnt. Although Professor Joseph Board is the official pre- law advisor all members of the department are knowledgeable on pre-law topics. Pre-law students should keep their eyes and ears open at the Activities Expo for thP. Pre-Law Society and throughout the year for speakers and other special events. ByDWM Since the unpacking is almost finished and courses are almost set, the next step is to get in- volved; and the easiest way to accomplish tbis is through intramurals. Intramurals are headed this year by Bob Montana, who has just joined the staff after three years of coaching basketball at Hamilton. For the upcoming school year Coach Montana has ~et up a program consisting of mtramurals and physical fit- ness classes. Intrarnurals consists of men, women, and co-ed teams. All information about these teams will be presented in an in.- tramurals handbook which will be placed in all students' mailboxes. One major point Coach Montana feels needs to be stresses is that the team meeting scheduled in the handbook are mandatory, and failure to show up will result in disqualification. Physical fitness classes will also be offered this fall. Classes that are offered free of charge include: exercise class one physical fintess relaxatio~ program, physical fitness weight training and con- ditioning, senior lifesaving and «;!ertification in first aid ' and CPR. Classes offered at a cost include: physical fitness exercise class two ( $30) aerobic dance classes one and two ($25 ), scuba diving (ten- tative fee), and karate (also tentative). With such a large selection there should be something to interest everyone. Please sign up as soon as possible so scheduling can get under way. If there are any questions, ~ontact Bob Montana at 6911, or m person at the Alumni Gym. /clel·~~J~ ~§~d~ d~~~ ~d~~ ' /~% Pfi~ w£ddu ad ~.-~: /~,P Jat. /tJ...§ -----------------------·---------'

Page 4 · QONfJORDIEN818, Orientation ~ss~ September u. _198! From the Editors ·With this issue, the Ooncordiensis commences its 105th year of publication. We are privileged to extend a warm greeting to the 596 new members of the College community and welcome back the returning upperclassmen, faculty, administration and staff. We trust that the new students,' through the Orient~tion Program, will gain an appreciation fot Union's traditions ana poliCies.- We hope that the Class· of 1986 will quickly assume responsibllities as members not only of an academic institution but al~:~o of the I I complete'' Union College. Orientation ls a blast, but at times it must be taken seriously. Enjoy the freedom of not having classes and experiencing a three day program filled with partying. Also be warmed by new friendships and all the experiences. that go along with bei.rig thrown into a new lifestyle. You will laugh at them for years to come. There are pages and pages of written materials to digest and mull over. Millions of faces will be offering words of wisdom and telling you this and that. All tqis information will be needed sooner or later so give it your best. A lot of what you will learn about Union and its happenings will come from this very newspaper. Ooncordiensi8 is totally student· run and funded by both the Activities Fund and advertising. To make our . plea short--we are looking for a. few good people. As you can see, we_are an equal opportunity employer. -- However, Ooncordiensis offers no glamour. It is a task to put out a. college weekly: every staff member, from editors to typists, hustles. The rewards are few. There is only the satisfaction of seeing your work in print come Thursday afternoon. Help is needed for a plethora of responsibilities. The writing of news, feature stqrtes, a.nd sports is vital. In addition, assistance is needed with layout, editing, headlines, business contacts, advertisement design, subscribers and photography; If you are willing to give of yourself in any capacity for any amount of time, we ha. ve a spot for you. Going Away·to·School By JIM CULLEN As Taken From .Newsday: ln the weeks ahead, thousands of Long !slanders Will be leaving home for the first time to go to college. They will experience a variety of e~otions, _ ranging from ex- citement to fear, eagerness. to nervousness. I know: I went through them myself. It's been a year since I left Northport to begin my fresh• man year at Tufts University on the outskirts of Boston. In some ways, it seems long ago. In others, it seems like only yesterday. I can remember the tedium of all the applications, the ·silly _essay, and a $25 ap- plication fee. I couldn't wait for June. and. graduation to arrive. At t.he Qeginning of summer leaving home for college seemed an eternity .away. But when I thought. -of it again, it was time to leave. A few cheerful goodbyes, .a few tearful ones, ~nd I found myself packing my existence into the back seat of a Pontiac. It's hard to paste together the variety of sensations that bombarded me upon my arrivEd on campus. There are so many fragments: Masses of cars and people, milling a~out like clUsters of ants on an anthill. . .Ivy-covered buildings named after men with stern faces- set in bronze busts ... Diiting hall food considered bad more by reputation than by actual taste. .. Four-walled boxes with naked beds and ·tattered furniture _waiting to be transfonned into living quarters. .and thousands of starry-eyed 18- year..olds not quite sure what to make of what they w~re seeipg. · One. of tbe most ,iliterestmg · e?Cp~mences I have· ever llad was walkifrg into my room and meeting the stranger who was to be my roommate. There wa~ a unique unreality in shaking hands with this person whose character I had speculated upon for months and whose letters weeks before had left me more puzzled than informed. Those first moments were charac- terized by embarassing com:- tesy as we stumbled through the formalities that would later be the source of a few good laughs. In time, I would become as accustomed to this unfamiliar · face as I would the Bruce Springsteen poster that would soon adorn one of the two walls that were mine to decorate. College orientation is, above all, a device used by a university to divert a new student from his recently departed past and introduce him to his new present. My first week was a whirl of Red Sox: games, movies, and parties. All of us were a bit awkward, groping with the situation, having three · standard questions: What's your name?, where are you from?, . and what's your major? This in~ troduction became a standing joke, and in talking about it with someone, I hoped to cut through some of the superficiality and get to know people rriore ill· timately. My primary concern in those first few days was settling in· to my new environment-unless adjusted, my studies probably Wouldn't get too far. Of course, t was very attached to my past. I wrote letters like they were going out of style. The only organization that reaped more profits than the postal service was the phone company. Bills in excess of $100 were not un- common for many of my friends, but in a lonely moment, reaching out and .touching someone was priceless. This is not to say there weren't opportunities to meet people. Among my more stimulating collegiate ex~ periences was. arrivinJ( on campus to find all doors open to me-.literally. People drifted m and out of rooms, making light conversation and 'creating spontaneous parties. Talking with people 1 fr()m_ different .backgrounds provided valu.able insights into others. and especially. myself. Some of these insights were small: t learned that kids from the Island don't say Long ·Island; they say Longisland. In my mind, however, this was more forgiveable. than Bostonians \paaking the caar . in Havaad yaad. '' I also realized· marty of the li'beral political and SQcial attitudes · I held were not as prevalent as I thought they'd be. While 1 was a ·bit disap- pointed that many students were more interested in making . their knowledge in their respective fi.elds, college professors were generally more personal than many of my high school teachers. Some like to be called by their . first· name, others held dinner parties and engaged in intriguing con- versation with students after · money than learning, I was glad that the diversity I encowttered helped widen my own horizons a bit. f found college parties amgng the more amusing -scenarios of my first year. Commonly known as \meat markets,\ frat parties usually . consisted of tacky music, e>ceans of beer, , and a population d.ensity greater than Calcutta, India, While the freshman guys struck out with the freshman gals, the ' sophomores tried to take ad· vantage of their seniority-- usually to no avail. In the right frame of mind, though, these could be a ~ot of fun. After perusing a catalog the size ;of a Tolstoy 'novel, I picked my courses and began classes. There :was a .distinctly different -ait in these classes as opposed to the ones I had in high school. For one thing, everybody was on the same level. Big fishes. in little seas were not quite as imposing tn an ocean of in- telligent college students. Another difference concerned . the teachers: While com- manding respect by virtue of class. One of my favorite courses o,yas a Russian literature class taught by a: nne teacher who also happened to be the dean of undergraduate studies and academic affair.s. Occasionally, tMs professor would schedule classes at night, where Dostoyevsky could be ponder.ed over some beer or genuine Russian vodka. ln this. casual~ .tnatti:re atmospQere, I found· myself abs()rbing much more food for thought than traditional teaching methods would allow~ After r;ny initial qualms whetner I was competent enough to go to my school, I found I really had what it takes to go there. The. old adage is true: if you~re good enough to be accepted to a ·school, you're good enough to do the work. This does not mean, however, that it will be easy. I study far more than I ever did in high school. But the more important factor in academic success is not brains or the amoUnt. of time . spent studying, but organi~ation of time. One hour of con- centrated study in'the library is worth more than two hours spent in 'the dorm w~th Neil Young wafting through the stereo and the temptation .of socializing. I saw that many high school procrastinators continued their lazy ways, but by and lar.ge, they were more frustrated at finals time than those thaf did their work. Contiary to what I thought; there was actually . tune ' for other things than · eating, ·Continued on page 9 (!1lll1fllrbtrnsis fDunJr.J IJ( • { mun Culltg~ /R, .. ;\ ------- ------- SUBSCRIBE TODA Yl Attention Fresh men Parents: Keep up. with what's happening on campus. Hcave a part of Union mailed home each week. · For only $12.00 you can have Cqncordy for the whole year: Make your check payable to: CONCORDIENSIS Mail to: Box No. 2577 Union CoUege Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 --------------------~------------------- YES! Eoclosed is my c~eck to receive Concordy all year. Name ______ ~~~----------------------;----- Address~-------~---~--- zip--------- €·on tor Acting Editors-in.Chief Managing Editor News Editors Entertainment Editor Copy Editor Staff A.J. Brodsky, Dianne Pavacic Julianrte Abelman Marcy Burstiner, Doug Landon Roberta Rubinstein D.C. Owens The Orientation Committee CONCORDIENSJS is published every Thursday by the student body o( Un~on ~ollege,, Carnegie :E{aU, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Offi(;e: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, N.Y. 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the · . Schenectady Post Office as third_ class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 .per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service . (CPS}, and utilizes the College News aureall·(CNB). IJIS'r 1lle .IDJ ~ KIA era M'( ~ ABl w~ C~f' WH£R1 10·~ 1UE ()4, Ni PeN CO AND N I suou 1UAT l

:heir llege nore high . to be · flme, and con- after . )rite sian tme to be uate ai.r.s. ssor ight, l be . r or this. •e, I lUCh than · hods :lms tent . )}, I . lkes e is o be u 1 re ork. ver, far tigh tant · s is ime tion !on- Y is ~urs ~eil the of my ors but ore 1an :ht; for lg, ~9 lit'( 5'1Sr'E R WMDS A Bl)Nfia'( RA88tr . ,___:~-....c~lf\\) WIPI niE. SCUOOL c~esr ctJ n: -~..~,- WHERE AM 1 GOJN6 . 10 ·BET A eoNNY-NfTW . 1J1E sOlc;:oL C2E~ eM ITt OH, n.IAT :S MY BALL FO\'\\ PEN CDL1.;Ql~ - 332. ftiNS AND NONE WOittcS. Go£~S · I SUDtJLD pre~ lJP ct-~E -ruAT w~. ' I'Vi SE9I - 1ltt U(;HT' ,-.~-~~ I . L'\JE SEEN 1WE LIGHT! \li'ft -~ CAMPUS TORE! MAYts tFY\OV ~T 4 N\UG Yc:IIJ WO<.lDNT ,_,A\Ie TO WEAlil A 818 Wml .'0U P~IN~ BEER!

' ., I I Page6 / I /~ I ' I \ \ OONOORDIBN818, Onentatkln JBS, September 11~ 198i Warm up with Union's new light weight 1:00% nylon iacket. Designed for excellent seam s:trength, hand, 11 footh, '' wf~!~r repellent, and· i'breathabilitye\' FuiJ •thletic cut for comfort and freedom of motion. _, Stretch knit cuH, -waistband and stand: .. up collar. Reinforced · seams at all stress points~ Set-in sleeves, enameled precision () .. UNig~ COj.LEt£ ·. snaps that close easily and .. hold tight. Overlapping_ welt slash pockets keep rain. out _and obiects ·i\ _bar tack reinforced, The quilted lining is comfortable, ..._ -~ altsorbent and durable. Machine washable 0 and clrip dry.· Available in garnet. Adult sizes only S, ;M., l ... . BACK TO UNION SPECIALS Warm up with Union's unlined permanent press iacket. Barracuda style collar makes this a sharp looking addition to any wardrobe. Collar can be worn \stand-up\ or as a regular sport collar. Unlined his- 'n her iacket has comfortable adiustable cuffs, side elastic waist, zipper front closing, and two slash pockets. Available. in Navy. Adult sizes • S, M, L, XL.- NOTE: These iackets are 'iull' athletic cut and run large $12.00 ... .. - : '•' I,' '

MENS & BOYS T·SHIATS FOOTBALL JERSE;Y$ V'NECK JEA$.EY OONOOBDiBNSI8, Orientation ,88, . September 1.1, · 1988 . . - · Yo:u wa:nt 'em • • ~ We got 'em. *At prices you can aHord BASEBALL JERSEYS LADIES RIB & INTERLOCK LAOIES LACE WE'VE GOT YOU COVERED FROM TOP TO BOTTOM A •. SPECIAL PURCHASE Our own Union pultover at close-out priees. 50% Creslan acrylic/50% cotton sweatshirt for comfort and warmth. Raglan cut long sleeves, sewn•on contrasting trim, and roomy front mu.H pocket. Available ·in Navy w/Gold trim . or Gunmetal w/Navy trim. Adult unisex .sizes • S.M .L. $12.88 B. SPECIAL PURCHASE Buy our close .. out front zip sweat iaeket and we'll give you the matching pants free. Stylish front zip iacket of 50 % Creslan/50% coHon for comfort and warmth. Convertible zip collar, rag Jan cut long ·sleeves, sewn;.on contrasting trim. Full athletic cut for freedom of movement. ' Available in Navy or Red. Adult unisex sizes S.M., L. · A. ~, ... $12~88 ___ __,__..,...., I / B Page 7

; i I ,· Page 8 Tl 55 Reg. 39.95 Tl55 Advanced Slide-Rule ~alculator with Statistics 1 .. ~ , I r , ) ,. • 8-digit LtD calculator. • Programmable to 32 steps. • Algebraic opera- ting system. • 9 :evels of parentheses/4 pending operation.s. • Linear regression and trend-line analysis programs. • 10 user accessible memodes. • 8 pteprogrammed com- mon conversions between metric and other measure- ~ent systems. • : >\>•... ...... - $29.95 Racquetball Racket $4.66 7504 7546 $2.89 Can $2.44 Can '5.55 Reg. 7.95 OONOOBJ)IliJNSIS, Onentatfon 1 81~ Septembe-r 11, 198B RECORD ALBUMS 99e \ - ~ - - Classical • Rock • Popular - Soul M£110 BOARD ( '\ I '\.'ii\1 i>, l r.-,'1' \.\.ill( l 1 • $3.50 and up Develop and· Print KODACOLOR up to 12 exp. upto20exp. $2.39 3.59 up to 24 exp. 3.99 up to 36 exp. 5.99 and other C-41 process films. films. 4 DAY SERVICE · Econ() Lamp I ' I• ,. • \Tubular steel constwction. • Individually calibrated: springs. • Provides 326 foot .candloe at 1 2\ with 7-5 watt bulb (not in• eluded), • 33\ arm reach. • 7'' diameter cool-ve'nted aluminum reflector. • two conductor power supply cord. • 4-way combination \X.\ bracket for mounting on ·flat surface, walls or headboard. • Baked enamel finish .. • Weight: 314 lbs. '26.95 • Lifetime W<!rranty. • Used on cassette decl<s with a chromium dioxide .(Cr0 2 ) position on bias selector. • Epitaxial magnetic material is specially prepared to reproduce sound with ex- traordinary accuracy. UDXL2C60 30 min./side .3.99 UDXL2C90 45 min./side 4.·99 WASTEBAS·Kf;Ts· $4.95 KODACOLOR FILM Cll0-12 Cll0-24 C126-12 Cl26-24 C135-l2 C135-24 C135-36 .KO DACOLOR 4100 CGll0-12 CGll0-24 CG-12 CG135-24 CG135-36 KODACHROME KM135-20 KR 126-20 I 135-20 KR135-36 $2.14 2.96 2.24 3.10 2.24 3.10 3.39 2.269 3.70 2.79 3.87 4.93 3.67 3:67 5.29 - SA 7:f inf 10: 12: Zd 3:C Pr 3(: Mt 4:( Ad 4:~ 5:~ ,5:~ 8:1 10: su :8:~ 9:~ 10: Fr1 11: 019 Fl< 11: Lol 1:4 . 2:0 She 9:0 9:0 We 11: MC 7:3 9:3 11: 1:0 Or! 4:& 13, 5:31 8:01 stu 9:01 9:01 11:1 TU i:a1 9:01 . 9:01 9:01 Act 11:: 1:01 1:01 1:01 Act 5:01 8:01 26, 8:0( 8:0( We 10:( WE CLJ

.. at in• ay OONCOBDIENSIS, Orientation '81, September 11, l9.BS . - . . . . - - . Page 9 - Orientat-ion H • h·. 1... h' ,. ' -, 19 '19 ·. s SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 11 . 7:00.12:oo.-carnegie Hall-Registration: Obtain Orientation information. 10-:00-11: oo-.-c,.Qal'et Room-conun~ter Student Meeting 12:00.1:3&-Memorial Field House-President's Luncheon 2:00-3:00--Memorial Chapel-President's Convocation . 3:004:60-Jackson's Gardens (if . raining. Hale House~- President's Reception . . 3c30-4:«6-Social Sciences Bldg., Room 016-Fmancial Aid Meeting 4:0G-4:30-Faculty Lqwtge Social Sciences-Faculty Orientation Advisor Meeting . ·. . . . . . . 4:300.5:30-See Schedule-:-First Orientation Group Meetings 5:3t).;7:30-H~e HoliSe-Dinner: Groups 1-18 Away to School • • • Continued frem page 4 sleeping and studying. I began to write for the school newspaper and tied down. a work-study job, still managing to come up with respectable grades. These extr.a-curricular activities were impc>rf;ant to me; by getting eX))Osure to people With whom I had things in common, I laid the foun- dations for some good times, and strong friendShips. Before I left for college, I senses that my first year would change me a great deal. I was right. I come back after one year decidedly more an adult than when I left. I now find that I am better equippedto take care of myself, lfhether it be doing my laundry, managing my finances or . fulfilling the responsibilities of home and school that fall on my ;Shoulder~:· I feel that I am also more knowledgeable. My work has taught me the day-today relevance of DN:A, Sigmund Freud and Pablo Piscasso. But, more . importantly, I have learned about people, how to better understand different points of view and to see how big (and small) a place the world we live in really is. In short, I feel I've grown a great deal. And, I'm looking forward to the new semester. ,5:30..7:3t)-West College-Dinner: Groups 19-37 · 8:1$-9:15-Each. Dormitory-Donn & Floqr Meetings 10: 30.?-Each Donnitory-Dorm Socials SUNJ;>AY, SEn'~MBER l2 . / :8:00.9:00...West Colleg~Breakfast . . 4 9:(14)-10:80-Same 'locations as Silt., 4:30-2nd Group Meetings 10:00•11:'00-·fdemorial Chapel--Mandatory Meeting for Freshman Survey . . 11:·~11:3~Divisionil Meetings-! Humanities in Humanities 019, II Social Sciences in SS016, Ill S,ciences in Stage II, 3rd Floor Carnegie, IV Engineering in Butterfield 204 (the Alps) 11:30-12:30;.-Departmental Meetings-~see Sch!!dules for· Greetings From President Morris Locations · - 1:45-Behftld the Field House-Shuttle Buses to Girling Center · 2:00..7:00-Girling Center-Girting Center Barbeque and Deck Show . . . . , . .· 9:0().;11:00·-Cabaret Room-Cabaret: Groups 1-6 9:00-11:00-SS016-Movies: \A Union of People\ and \The Way We Were'' 11:00-1 :DO-Cabaret Room-Cabaret: Groups 7-13 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13 7:30-9 :30-West College-Breakfast 9:30-10:30-.Same locations as Sat., 4:3o-3rd- Group Meetings 11:30.1:1)0..;West CoUege-Lwu:h Welcome to Union College- Seldom . will you experience such a total shift in your everyday life as you arrive at college. You Will have to learn to live with companions in dormitory. You will share meals in a dining hall. You will be much more responsible for your day to day concerns than you have had to be. AJl.of this is part ·Of· the broad educational process of living in a residential college. But the important point is that you are at college. And that, I hope, is the most significant factor in the change you will experience. I expect you will be challenged inteHectually in ways to which you are unac- customed. You are here to learn. Mostly, perhaps, to learn how' to learn. But the major responsibility will be yours. That is the most crucial un- derstanding you must come to: that the first responsibility for your education lies with you. We are all here to help you make the most of your next four years. You have come to a college with a long and distinguished history. Now you must work to become a part of that college. I welcome you and wish you the best. Sincerely, JohnS. Morris President 1:00-S:O()....Faculty Offices-Faculty Advising Meetings - See Orientation Packets · • 4:00-5:30-President's House-President's .Reception, Groups-1- 13, 27-33 5:30-7:30-West College-Dinner The First Step 8:00-9:00-:-Memorial Chapel-Mandatory Meeting for all new students 9:00.11:00-Cabaret R9om-Cabaret: Groups 14-19 9:00-11:00-Library P~a (~lt ... Ol_d Chapel)-8quare Dance 11:00-1:00-Cabaret :Room-Cabaret: Groups 2(}.26 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14 7':30..9: 30-West College-Breakfast 9:00-12:00-Aluinni Gym-Registration: by Group · To all new students: With each September, a new group of faces add fresh ideas and ·enthusiasm to our college · community. Although we have. been a part of Union College for one, two, and even three years, the students participating in the Orientation program have not . lost that original enthusiasm. We hope to pass this enthusiasm on to you while allowing you to explore the vast opportunities Union holds within its doors. Those things which first at~ tracted you to Union will now become a part of your daily routine. The doors 'Of Union College are now open as you face a challenging and bright beginning. We are grateful to be a part of your first eXperience and we hope you find and create your individual key to an en .. joyable and profitable stay at Union. , Tracy, Sheila & Mary Ann Orientation '82 Chairpersons . 9:00-12:0()-..;Ca,reer Center-Campus Tours, see schedule 9:00-12:00-Carnegie Hall (postponed if. it rains)-8tudent Activities Expo _ 11:30..1:30-West College--Lunch 1:00-4:30-Career Center-Campus Tours, see schedule 1:00.5:00-Alimmi Gym-Registration: by Group 1:110-S:OO-Carnegie Hall (postponed if it rains)-8tudent Hello Transfers Activities Expo . · 5:00-7:00-West College-Dinner: regular meal plan .begins 8:00-9r30--President's House-President's Reception: Groups 14- 261 34-40 8:00-10:00-Cabaret Room-cabaret: Groups 27-33 . 8:00-10:00-SSOlG-Movies: \A Union of People\ and \The Way We Were'' 10:00-12:00-Cabaret Room-Cabaret: Groups 3440 WEDNES])AY, SEPTEMBER 15 CLASSES BEGIN ' A Note to the Transfers: As fellow transfer students, we on the Transfer Sub- committee .,of the Orientation Committee · have tried to provide the transfers with an . orientation that will appeal to their special needs. Orientation for transfers is not as much an orientation to college life, but more an introduction to Union You are Cordially Invited to Beeome Part of a Tradition of Excellence di(t· ~~·'·~'1... Gt~ttttni rr [;~ 10 f. 95 ~trusts ?J~~w ~~.,;<---~ Established 1877 CONCORDIENSIS can offer new students · positions in any aspect of newspaper production: REPO~TING PHOTOGRAPHY COPY EDITING LAYOUT . . BUSINESS We're always looking for new· ideas and new talent! · Com~ to the Club Expo on Tuesday Meet the Editors- Ask Questions- EnjoyRefreshmer:tts We LoolcFc;u:ward~to Sae.tng You There! and what it has to offer. Your participation in the activities during Orientation will not only make you feel a part of Union right from the beginning, but it will also provide you with the opportunity to meet fellow transfer_ students and freshmen who are in the same position as you. . Our theme this fall is \Orientation Opens Doors\ and this is very applicable for what you can do for Union and what Union can do for you. We hope your experiences at Union will be as satisfying and enjoyable as ours have proven to be. Have a great orientation ancf we will be seeing you. Sarah Couch, Marge Kinder and Dave Suebert College Fair On Tuesday, October 12, 1982, the Hudson Mohawk Consortium of Colleges and Universities will sponsor a College Fair in Union's Memorial Field House. Representatives from approximately 200 colleges across the country will attend the Fair, scheduled from 9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. during the day and 7:00 p.m.-9:00p.m. in the evening. Throughout the day, high school students and their parents will have opportunities to discuss higher educational options with college representatives and to meet with financial aid officers in workshop sessions in the Warmup Room of the Achilles Rink. Past attendance at the College •Fair has been excellent with about 4000-5000 students and their parents participating in the day's activities. All members of the Union community are welcome to join in the College Fair activities. For additional information, please contact Joanna Broda, Admissions, 370-6112.

I I ~ 00NOORDIEN818, OrientaUon '81, September 11, i98$ :UIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiUIIRJIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIRl = . . . . .. . . = = = ~ ! ~ j 5 5 ~ I ~ i 5 a ~ i = = a i = = ~lllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll.llillllllllll.lllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiii!IIIIIIUIIIIII.IIIIIIII.IIIII.IIIIIIIII.IIIIIIUIIIfil· Canal Square in downtown Schenectady is a unique, multi• · faceted shopping center that offers a variety of 'l:l fine stores and restaurants. ·. ln a tight economy with hundreds of Capital District retailers and restaurants bidding for consumer attention, Cao.Ql Square focuses its attention on the consumer by creating sa shopping center that transcends the big mall scr$111ble. · Efforts such as paddleboat rentals,. T.G.!.F; celebrations on F'r1day nights, outdoor dining, exciting events at Proctor's rheatre make Canal Square a tremendous shopping and entertainment complex-a definite asset to the Capital District. Distinctive and stylish wc>men's shoes are the norm at Arnow's Shoes, owned and operated by Harry Rector. The Candy-Nut offers a wide range of confectionary delights, made right on the premisesby owner David Lasher. A full-line department store, tlie Carl Company is very much of a tradition in Schenectady for nearly a century. The Colonial Petal florist shop owned by Diane Cavoli, graces the square with a touch of Williamsburg. For the fun-loving and young-at-heart, B. Cornelius and Smith is a toy store of rar~ and exquisite variety. If theatre or dance is your thing, Tbe Costumer owned by Jack Sheehan can supply your every need and desire. The DeU-400, part of the Square's Food Bazaar and owned by Tony Famiano, is a real New York Deli. The Galaxle, an elegant boutique, features women's sportswear coordinates. Galuie owner; Beverly Chapman, plans to open a second store In October called Discretions which will feature a distinctive line of quality lingerie. Garaban's old-fashioned ambiance makes this restaurant• saloon a diner's treat. Sam Stephens is the proprietor~ A high-style men's store, the Lafayette, owned by Angelo Dellario, offers a wide selection of men's sUits and accessories. Come and enjoy the exotic cuisine of Lum Fung's Chinese Restaurant, owned and operated by Tom Leung. A tot~ch of Boston greets you upon entering the New England Fudge Co's aromatic premises. Besides home-made fudge, the · store features original oil paintings of the east coast; New York Frallks features foot-long hot dogs to scrwnptious Yankee Franks and a variety of toppings, including a delectable meat sauce made by the owner herself,.AndreaSarris. Papa Cicco's pizzas, homemade pasta and brocolli breads deliciously round out the Food Bazaar's culinary delights. It is owned by Angelo Mazzone who also operates Peggy's CaoalsJde Restaurant. The restaurant serves breakfast, lunch and dinner from a menu of more than 200 items. Peggy's outdoor patio features casual open air dining at its best. The Sc~p. an ice cream parlor with a definite and delicious flair for the unusual in flavors, is owned by Keith O'Neil and Paul Tonko. You would need a passport to obtain most of the fashions fmmd at The Sboppe. Among the international apparel are castunere sewaters from Ecuador or handooembroidered dresses from tbe island of Bali. The store is owned by Rick Spinello. . Fine. tailored clothing for men and women may be found at The !-.quire Shop. The 18-year-old establishment, owned by Paul Isenberg, the distinctive labels of such fine designs as Cardin, Sasson and Givenchy. Beautiful accessories for the bed, board and bath may be obtained at one of Canal Square's newest additions-Something Special, a lovely home furnishings store owned by Joan Westcott. . Everything from Bach to Rock can be found at Canal Square's records and tapes store-Strawberries. · Time Center Jewelers, one of Schenectady's finest and oldest jewelry stores, offers precious diamonds and gems, watches ru.td a free ear-piercing service. The store is OWned by Melvin Mintz. Last, but certainly not least, Vlllage Woodcrafts is Canal Square's only building materials store for dollhouses. The store, owned by Catherine A~tin, has a fascinating selection.of items for building and furnishing a miniature house. HOT NIGHTS.~ ByD&T For those of you who turned down N.Y.U., Columbia, or evenB.U.,andfeelyouhave left the collegetown excitement behind you, FEAR NOT. Yo:u are now a part of the excitement offered by Schenectady. Perhaps you have heard that Schenectady is a G.E. town, but Schenectady has the style and grace of any big city. No, we do not have the exhibits depicting Greek life found in the Metropolitan but Greek life abounds on Union campus with sixteen frater- nities and three sororities each offering their individual flair to most students:' nighttilne ac- tivities. Union's cultural life is not second to that of :Boston and New York. 'fbe.;typical student finds him or herself confused. \Should I attend. a: Mountebanks production, a jazz ensemble event, a dance club per- formance, or a Cabaret ex- travaganza?\ No wonder the Union student looks .so drained so early in the evening with decisions such as that to be made nightly. The finest bars and restaurants are styled after our very own Rathskellar and Dutch Hollow Pub. Once you are inaugurated into the nightlife of Union they prove to be popularly visited spots on campus. So .... Welcome aboard to the Las Vegas of New York- UNION COLLEGE! l So· you say that there will never be anything like Mom's home cooking again? The pc>pcorn poppet and hot poi. in your room just aren't going to cut it? Well don't despair! ! Nothing will ever quite match Mom but Peter Pause, located right behind Richmond offers a hearty menu with ve-ry reasonable prices. lngrid's at l75 Jay Street .(a .five minute walk from the Slue Ge~te}, of- fers fine food, quiche, sand· wiches, and for those who, like me, often skip dinner and head straight for dessert.. Haagen Daas!! Geppetto's located to the right of Peter Pause (mentioned befor.e~pay at- tention!), makes a great Chef's Salad as well as good Italian food and pizza. For those of you in a .hurry, with more \discriminating\ tastes, Burger King ( 1.725 Altamont Avenue), McDonalds on both Union and State Streets and Just Jack's and Wendy's on Erie Blvd. offer fast food for late night munchies. Those old .standbys, Friendlys and Dunkin Donuts, located on Union and State Streets respectively, are nearby also. MMMM! What should you do if you don't want to go outside? Well no need to pull on those sweatpants because Dominos DELIVERS! So does our very own, student run pizza. pub ln. Carnegie Hall. If atmosphere is important to you the Straw. berry Patch .offers a quaint,. cozy interior with gingham curtains and good food. I have also heard tell that the Cafe St. Martin across the street is excellent They are both located in downtown Schenectady, near the TraUways bus station and .a.nother E XCE LLE NT restaurant, The Oxbow Inn. candidly speaking, there .are certain nationalities With ex- tremely tasty culinary delights. For good Italian food (ettention Cheryl!!), Mother Ferro's, DeCoco·'s and Cornell's are all within a. five minute radius of Union's gates. (Fine in- corporation of theme, huh?) Fireside Pizzeria, lo~ated across the street from Price Chopper has great pizza and free popcorn and wings in. the lounge upstairs. For good Chinese food you can't beat the China Garden on State Street (also good for take-out), or Jack's on Central Avenue in Albany. At Hiro's Japanese restaurant, they ~11 cook your dinner right on your table as long as there are eight of you, or you are willing to share a table. · For special occasions, you parent's visits or dates, (yes, people DO date here oc- casionally!), there are a few excellent restaurants in the area. The Turf lnn·on Wolf Road has a great ••Walk the .Plank Buffet.'' Also in Colonie is Park V whi(!h is great for light en- trees and. salads. DeliCious tool The Cranberry Bog, also on Wolf Road, · offers fine dining and an outdoor .patio, The Bamsider in Colonie Mall is perfect after browsing through Macy's. Closer to home, the Van Dyke in the Stockade ha.s fine food and a jazz piano. Pertipo's on Rosa Road (past Ellis Hospital; consult your waling tour), also has good food for a very good price. For a guaranteed good time, if yc:>u're not fullyet, the Ground Round on State Street has great frozen drinks, beer and that ever popular, SANGRIA. Free J)opcorn and peanuts help to create a. thirst, while you enjoy cartoons or listen to some of the area's finest amateur talent. For dess.ert, la Patisserie on StateStreet, or Stewarts on Nott Terrace are just a quick walk away, Anddon'Uorget Jumping Jacks which is .open in the fall and spring for outside dining on ham·burgers, their world famous onion rings and soft ice cream. Ordering your food there is an experience in itself. Overwhelmed? Well you've got some time to explore your options so why not mull it over as you sip a soda or sample the fine food of . our own Dutch Hollow Pub? ! Bon Appetit! ! · f)\f,)\ ~l~A~\·.I·~\~~ eJ(?(~2()~rJ;f~MP01{ 111M 109 Canal Square, Broadway, Sch'dy. Phone: 374-4332 • PIZZA • Cheese Ex. Cheese Sausage Mushroom Pepperoni Green Peppers Meatballs Onions Anchovies Any Add hem Papa Cicco's Deluxe WHITE PIZZA OUR SPECIALTY - Try One Today~ Pizza wifh no sauce Sprinkled with Oli~e Qil and Freah Carhc with mounds of Mozzarella ch·eese Li· 4.50 Sicillian 12 cut 5.25 N.Y.S Style Sidllian Style (Deepdish) 8\ cut 12\ cut .24h cut 4.25 5.00 8.50 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6;00 1 o.oo 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6;00 10.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 .75 1.00 1.50 9.25 10.95 15.00 THE SHRIMP THE WHITE SCAMPI CLAM SAUCE PIZZA PIZZA Shrimp and Garlic with Olive Oil and Mozzarella ~:heeae Lr. 6.75 · Sicillian 12 cut 7.50 Pizza~ with WhiteCiam Sauce and Car lie with . Mozzarella cheese 24 cut 8.75 24 cut 10.50 8 cut 6.00 12 cut 6.75 24 cut 9.75 • ITALIAN SANDWICHES • , 1\,.t!,U ball Meatbaii.Parmjgian'! Sausage . Sa\.lsa,e Parmigiana Sausare &: Peppers Err Plant Parmi~riana Cabone 2.10 Steak . . . 2.50 2.50 Salami·l~ Provalone . . 2.50 2.10 Proaciotio &: Provalone . 2;t5 2.50 Sandwich,es with. peppers 20' eJ<tra 2.35 Saf)dwichea with Mushrooms 20' extra 2.60 Sandwiches with Onionil 10' extr:a · Italian Roasted ,Peppers 25' extra • SPECIAL TlES • . Plain Sausa.re ... us 2.65 Ham Prosdotto. '. 2.65 .. 2.~5 r-------------------------------------------~ I FREE ME,RCHANDlSE' . '. I Every time you get a pizza or sandwiches va'lued at more than : : $4.00youwill receive a coupon- save them for Ftee Merchandise. 1 I I 1 l5~Coupons ·, 1 8 cut Free (cheese only) : 1 20Coupons l12cutFree(cheeseonly) 1 I 25 Coupons 1 24 cut Free'( 1 ingredient) 1 1 50 Coupons V2 keg of beer (3 days notice). 1 : 100 Coupol\)s Pizza Party for 25 people with beer at your_ : I _______ ._:_---~--- ___ --~!:.~!':..~~~~i!,Y_ ~~!~-~!c!~---J. WE DEliVER ON CAMPUS· P·Ho:NE 374-4331 . . . - 0;0»' bittlili Tracy - Wel~ Sandi! ofSjn again. .~l o:rN'kE Pood Mutt!! togeth~ Cher: Trat• key!!+ Heyl missed good a~: Sbeel the bin you al]l your,: '$b Dann light ot ~ .. tn:a I -· .w ~ ' . II, /

Page 10' OONCORDIENSIS, Onentation '8~, September 11, 198~ . ' ,'' ' ,. . ·. ;: ~ . - ~ . . . . . .\ . ill 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 \\\ lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllll)l = = = = ~ i = ~ a 1 = = § § = = 5 5 ~ ~ = = 5 5 = = = = = = E S ~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllillillllllilllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~l Canal Square in downtown Schenectady is a unique, multi- faceted shopping center that offers a variety of 'J:l fine stores and restaurants. In a tight economy with hundreds of Capital District retailers and restaurants bidding for consumer attention, Canal Square focuses its attention on the consumer by creating sa shopping center that transcends the big mall scramble. F.fforts such as paddleboat rentals, T.G.I.F. celebrations on Friday nights, outdoor dining, exciting events at Proctor's rheatre make Canal Square a tremendous shopping and entertainment complex-a definite asset to the Capital District. Distinctive and stylish women's shoes are the nonn at Arnow's Sboes, owned and operated by Harry Rector. The Candy-Nut offers a wide range of confectionary delights, made right on the premises by owner David Lasher. A full-line department store, the Carl Company is very much of a tradition in Schenectady for nearly a century. The Colonial Petal florist shop owned by Diane Cavoli, graces the square with a touch of Williamsburg. For the fun-loving and young-at-heart, B. Cornelius and Smith is a toy store of rare and exquisite variety. If theatre or dance is your thing, The Costumer owned by Jack Sheehan can supply your every need and desire. The Deli-400, part of the Square's Food Bazaar and owned by Tony Famiano, is a real New York Deli. The Galaxie, an elegant boutique, features women's sportswear coordinates. Galaxie owner, Beverly Chapman, plans to open a second store in October called Discretions which will feature a distinctive line of quality lingerie. Garaban's old-fashioned ambiance makes this restaurant- saloon a diner's treat. Sam Stephens is the proprietor. A high-style men's store, the Lafayette, owned by Angelo Dellario, offers a wide selection of men's suits and accessories. Come and enjoy the exotic cuisine of Lum Fung's Chinese Restaurant, owned and operated by Tom LeWlg. A touch of Boston greets you upon entering the New England Fudge Co's aromatic premises. Besides home-made fudge, the store features original oil paintings of the east coast. New York Franks features foot-long hot dogs to scrumptious Yankee Franks and a variety of toppings, including a delectable meat sauce made by the owner herself, Andrea Sarris. Papa Cicco's pizzas, homemade pasta and brocolli breads deliciously round out the Food Bazaar's culinary delights. It is owned by Angelo Mazzone who also operates Peggy's Canalside Restaurant. The restaurant serves breakfast, lunch and dinner from a menu of more than 200 items. Peggy's outdoor patio features casual open air dining at its best. Tbe Scoop, an ice cream parlor with a definite and delicious flair for the unusual in flavors, is owned by Keith O'Neil and Paul Tonko. You would need a passport to obtain most of the fashions found at The Shoppe. Among the international apparel are cashmere sewaters from Ecuador or hand-embroidered dresses from the island of Bali. The store is owned by Rick Spinello. Fine, tailored clothing for men and women may be found at The !-.quire Shop. The 18-year-old establishment, owned by Paul Isenberg, the distinctive labels of such fine designs as Cardin, Sasson and Givenchy. Beautiful accessories for the bed, board and bath may be obtained at one of Canal Square's newest additions-Something Special, a lovely home furnishings store owned by Joan Westcott. . Everything from Bach to Rock can be foWld at Canal Square's records and tapes store-Strawberries. Time Center Jewelers, one of Schenectady's finest and oldest jewelry stores, offers precious diamonds and gems, watches and a free ear-piercing service. The store is owned by Melvin Mintz. Last, but certainly not least, Village Woodcrafts is Canal Square's only building materials store for dollhouses. The store, owned by Catherine Austin, has a fascinating selection of items for building and furnishing a miniature house. HOT NIGHTS.~ ByD&T For those of you who turned down N.Y.U., Columbia, or even B. U., and feel you have left the collegetown excitement behind you, FEAR NOT. You are now a part of the excitement offered by Schenectady. Perhaps you have heard that Schenectady is a G.E. town, but Schenectady has the style and grace of any big city. No, we do not have the exhibits depicting Greek life foWld in the Metropolitan but Greek life abounds on Union campus with sixteen frater- nities and three sororities each offering their individual flair to most students' nighttime ac- tivities. Union's cultural life is not second to that of Boston and New York. The typical student finds him or herself confused. \Should I attend a Mountebanks production, a jazz ensemble event, a dance club per- formance, or a Cabaret ex- travaganza?\ No wonder the Union student looks so drained so early in the evening with decisions such as that to be made nightly. The finest bars and restaurants are styled after our very own Rathskellar and Dutch Hollow Pub. Once you are inaugurated into the nightlife of Union they prove to be popularly visited spots on campus. So .... Welcome aboard to the Las Vegas of New York- UNION COLLEGE! ! So you say that there wiU never be anything like Mom's home coo·king again? The popcorn popper and hot pot in your room just aren't gaing to cut it? Well don't despair!! Nothing will ever quite match Mom but Peter Pause, located right behind Richmond offers a hearty menu with very reasonable prices. Ingrid's at 175 Jay Street (a five minute walk from the Blue Gate), of- fers fine food, quiche, sand- wiches, and for those who, like me, often skip dinner and head straight for dessert, Haagen Daas!! Geppetto's located ta the right of Peter Pause (mentioned before-pay at- tention!), makes a great Chef's Salad as well as good Italian food and pizza. For those of. you in a hurry, with more \discriminating\ tastes, Burger King (1725 Altamont Avenue), McDonalds on bath Union and State Streets and Just Jack's and Wendy's on Erie Blvd. offer fast food for late night munchies. Those old standbys, Friendlys and Dunkin Donuts, located on Union and State Streets respectively, are nearby also. MMMM! What should you do if you don't want to go outside? Well no need to pull on those sweatpants because Dominos DELIVERS! So does our very own, student run pizza pub in Carnegie Hall. If atmosphere is important to you the Strawberry Patch offers a quaint, cozy interior with gingham curtains and good food. I have also heard tell that the Cafe St. Martin across the street is excellent. They are both located in downtown Schenectady, near the Trailways bus station and another EXCELLENT restaurant, The Oxbow Inn. Candidly speaking, there are certain nationalities with ex- tretnely tasty culinary delights. For good Italian food (attention Cheryl! ! ) , Mother Ferro's, DeCoco's and Cornell's are all within a five minute radius of Union's gates. (Fine in- corporation of theme, huh?) Fireside Pizzeria, located across the street from Price Chopper has great pizza and free popcorn and wings in the lounge upstairs. For good Chinese food you can't beat the China Garden on State Street (also good for take-out), or Jack's on Central Avenue in Albany. At Hiro's Japanese restaurant, they will cook your dinner right on your table as long as there are eight of you, or you are willing to share a table. For special occasions, you parent's visits or dates, (yes, people DO date here oc- casionally! ) , there are a few excellent restaurants in the area. The Turf Inn on Wolf Road has a great ''Walk the Plank Buffet.\ Also in Colonie is Park v which is great for light en- trees and salads. Delicious too! The Cranberry Bog, also on Wolf Road, offers. fine dining and an outdoor path~. The Barnsider in Colonie Mall is perfect after browsing through Macy's. Closer to home, the Van Dyke in the Stockade has fine food and a jazz piano. Perrino's on Rosa Road (past Ellis Hospital; consult your waling tour), also has good food for a very good price. For a guaranteed good time, if you're not full yet, the GroWld Round on State Street has great frozen drinks, beer and that ever popular, SANGRIA. Free popcorn and peanuts help to create a thirst, while you enjoy cartoons or listen to some of the area's finest amateur talent. For dessert, la Patisserie on State Street, or Stewarts on N ott Terrace are just a quick walk away. And don't forget Jumping Jacks which is open in the fall and spring for outside dining on hamburgers, their world famous onion rings and soft ice cream. Ordering your food there is an experience in itself. Overwhelmed? Well you've got some time to explore your options so why not mull it over as you sip a soda or sample the fine food of our own Dutch Hollow Pub?! Bon Appetit!! IJ\IA ~~,~JA,.I·~,~~ t?f(?t;~)~rJ)f~M POI\ I,U M 109 Canal Square, Broadway, Sch'dy. Phone: 374-4332 • PIZZA • Cheese Ex. Cheese Sausage Mushroom Pepperoni Green Peppers Meatballs Onions Anchovies Any Add Item Papa Cicco's Deluxe WHITE PIZZA OUR SPECIALTY - Try One Today- P~:tza with no sauce Sprinkled with Olive Oil and Freah Garlic with mounds of Mozzarella chrese Lg. 4.50 Sicdlian 12 cut 5.25 N.Y.S Style Sicillian Style (Deepdish) 8\ cut 12\ cut 24\ cut 4.25 5.00 8.50 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 I 0.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 l 0.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 .75 1.00 1.50 9.25 10.95 15.00 THE SHRIMP THE WHITE SCAMPI CLAM SAUCE PI~ PI~ Shrimp and Carlic with Olive Oil and Mozzarella cheese La. 6.75 Sicillian 12 cut 7.50 Pizza with White Clam Sauce and Car lie with Moz:uarella cheese 24cut 8.75 24cut 10.50 8 cut 12 cut 24 cut 6.00 6.75 9.75 o ITALIAN SANDWICHES • 1\.o!atball Meatball Parmigiana Sausage Sausace Parmigiana Sauaal'e & Peppers En Plant Parmigiana Cabone 2.10 Steak 2.50 2.50 Salami ~~ Provalone 2.50 2.10 Prosciotto & Provalone 2.95 2.50 Sandwiches with peppers 20' extra 2.35 Sandwiches with Mushrooms 20' extra 2.60 Sandwiches with Onions 10' extra · Italian Roasted Peppers 25' extra • SPECIAL TIES • Plain Sausage 2.25 2.65 Ham Prosciotto 2.65 %.95 r~------------~--~-------------------------~- FREE MERCHANDISE i Every time you get a pizza or sandwiches valued at more than : $4.00 you will receive a coupon -save them for Free Merchandise. 1 I 15 Coupons 18 cut Free .(cheese only) : 20 Coupons 1 12 cut Free (cheese only) 1 25 Coupons 1 24 cut Free ( 1 ingredient) 1 50Coupons 1 12kegofbeer(3daysnoticel 1 100 Coupons Pizza Party for 25 people with beer at your ~ dorm or fraternity (2 days notice) J L------------------------~-----------~~----- I WE DELIVER O-N CAMPUS PHONE 374-4331 .r ·E $mi traditi with' Patt We're 3ls-:. knoW I o.c .. blrthdl Tracy Welt Sandi! of San again. Dan1 wings! OINKJJ Pood . ) Mutt!! togetht Cher I ! ' Trac key!H Heyl missed good a1 Sheel ' the .birl !', you an \ I your st l' f I • J Dallll I l j! light OI can m~ · ~\.dan c stra ·='Ut YOl1 t~ .. t Ht ~ R b ; are in l ·; Poin( window rely on membe1 I -.w

n- , is 's a g n d e r '•'· Page 11 e. . . tees Wetre tbld ~utre._db .us,. at~~-r-of·vavtetson know what t}Jey're in fort! try for a third tim~??? basta luego mis amigas. The Poodles ~~~ reign forever. Sarah-didn't you fimsb that sel1«1ule yet?? Natalie-is that light on in West?. ·-------- Circe: My little poopsie!! Mommy loves you so very · much! I can•t w:ait till we're together again! l To the Uptight member of our aroup. have a good time at Catskill Garm Fat111. Adam·-Happy Tuesday! lately? By tbe way, what does it mean when you stick your . tongue out? Doug-I always thought you might have a kinky streak in you but you really got INTO that JeUo. MMMMMMM! Good tnoming Sunshine. I , hope that fOUl\ floor appreciates your enthusiasm and that your mattress is as firm as everyone S3Y$itis. '\Vhflt? Can't hear you Coi•'! Orientation or the mornings in heH week woul(jn't have been the same without you. 1hanx for evetytbing. M. On the 50 yard line, people turn into gnomes ..• don't they ma~g-e? Poodles UIJitef! He:y Unca Mutt!! r G~t the meoobers. all togetlu}t for a group ·pteture. · Cheryl-Drink mutt bitch Trace, I still nave the ?J+! key! !++Love, Mar Hey L.B.! ! ! Welcome Bacld I missed you! Hope this year is as good as last year. Always; L.B. Sheela ~'Peeeon'' Waish-May the bird of happiness pass over you al};d dump cold beet. dtmn your; '$ . . F:~i\fl'f-;: . sm ... . :~-- .,-~{-~;~ ·-, : . . . ::: - Frosb Croas ·Country Rwr ners-Enjoy Orie..\ltatiq~. haye .a g®d season and a · fautastic year!! To the lineworkers-Thanks for a really fun. t~e .and a su.pe,r - J!,lb. We knew ~e ooultl do it all along. Hey. mth members like the. ones we have •..••. .love you. . ruet Mid..}idmp,m()bile driver: ::zn~· . . good ~re of Oieltl~ tor yw ... OopaU! ! uwv~roM Luek . · you E. T.-Weeblea wobble and .. ·. , tluiy so-metimes ev~n fall down, . , . , 91\· so~ ~b~... , Weebles,. ean you make it to the bathroom O.K.! ! ONeiU .... I guess that Irish brain does work after alL Psychology majors of the world, unite. After. all, com- pared to an engineer, aU other majnrs are a luxury. . \ . l,{amalw;i Woman: I'll cart you ·around Priee Chopper anytime. ·~Thank you. Come Arr' n ~am. wei1:·p;eon1 &t~'figured out why you never liked Circe:. She has neater living habits than you ever bad! 1 t Members only! ! l Oh Doug rm sorry! ! I promised to leave your member out of this!! You excite me .•• So does your membership! I! Prof. Bill Thomas--uMy FIRST college experience. H Dinner was tres bien. Sorry you did-not show. Stay out of trouble in France!!! Mark Valentine welcome back tn Union!! ! Good to have y~u back!! Love Tracy Some tennis rackets just don't hold up .•• but then again some members just don't last eigber ... uh mar To S()meone very special ••• may an her world travels soon come to an end, because sotneone ~s you very mucb: ••. wilUor short. Plastamatie .. our ~mpany is go-ing down the drain, but I think it is due to ..... your in- volvement in u99. tJ S.W .... I hope the beer bath didn't stain your members. .Sheila-suck it in. it's time to go!! Transition? Tradition? Enfusiasm! ! M. Marge-the third meeting is . all yours-what are . . . . to Mar-Itm only kidding ... Sarah-life IS rouf!h with oral fixations like ourstr· ' Aylesworth-! know that you're only using me for my zucchini bread but if the offer is stm there, I· accept! Dave-you never should have said that you could type. M & T-Well, I guess this is it. Who volmteered for this job, anyway? It's been great ..... sigh. Doug-daquiri man with the jello colored hair. You will have to learn to keep your member in better control. My members oon~t appreciate your kind Gf sbananagans. This one eyed j~k is yours, baby - drink . double, faggot. To the other half of the Irish lasagna team with the Italian toueh-good luck with RA Nat-did you ever get the feeling that Jack Daniel's, tonic and lemon don 1 t mix? Maybe we should have tried the Hawaiian punch. TraceM·ride in any carts lately? By the way, how is your tummy, ell? Thank you, come again. Happy 21st, poodle! Ask The Expert ---.WE DELIVER- 464 State St. 374-1888 . Schenectady, NY . 74£.7f/~ B~ Wishes to welcome back Union students and faculty and also to meet the new students We're proud to have been serving Union $ince 1912 at the corner of . State St. and Erie Blvd. In t·he \01~\ State Arcade • 377-1515 / 5 lar~er/Stylists _ Hith in quality; low in price (Same as last year). W\lappreciate your business Editor's Note: Doctor Nor- man Birnbach, noted professional, has signed a lucrative contract with :Con- cordfensJs for the publication of his insightful comments. Doctor Birnbach will gladly answer letters at his diScretion if they are addressed to Concoi.-diensis, Box 2577, and received · by Monday, 4:00p.m.,- the week of printing. Dear Nonnan, I'm at my wit's end. My roommate is always with some girl in bed andJ either wind up listening to hea-vy breathing or , sleeping on the cold hard floor of the living room. What can I do? Fed tip in Fox Dear Fed Up, Ever think about hopping In? Dear Norman, I don't know what to do. I can't seem to keep my relationships with men platonic. Everytime I get emotionally involved with a guy, we wind up in bed and our whole relationship changes. I enjoy sex, but I'd much prefer to have at least one non .. physical in- . volvement. Please help! Dear Tired out, Tired out What's your problem?! Dear :Norman, I feel awful. I've been here for two years already and I can't seem to get anything started with any girls. Even when I go np North I always wind up leaving alone. I don't know what I'm doing wrong. Any suggestions? Hurting in Hickok Dear Hurting, - Oiily one suggestion-GE'l' A NEW FACE! Dear Nonnan, I'm so depressed. My Dr. Norman Birnbach Expert in Student \Affairs\. boyfriend goes to school far from here and I won't see hiJ:il until ChFistmas. I miss him a lot and I am very lonely. Can you help me? Desperate in Davidson Dear Desperate, Maybe I can help. Give me a call. Dear Dr. Birnbach I need your ·help desperately. My roommate is always hanging out in our room getting wasted. It's impossible to walk in without getting high myself. I can't take it any more. I asked him to go someplace but he just grinned at me ... I don't even know his name ... neither does he. Please help me. Wasted in West Dear Wasted1 Ever try Quaaludes?

- ad nk rk !n- 1()! on ng he is gh an ne l'S jg rig a 1e, ld at at ee to >y 1e lt. m 1tt lk lg tll 1n ld ~e ld f. Jt 1r !r te 'h OONOORDIENSIS, Ortentatfon 'BB, September )1, 198B Page 11 e Ices Sm.itb House '81-'82--The tra&tion will always live on with you. Patti-•·•Here'\~ to wild times! We're glad you're witb us. Adam-Remember us when your engagement is in the NY Times~ Maybe your clout will help us climb to such heights. Nat P.S. IdeaiSm Forever! Jodi-I guess I can't teach you 313-Dc.les tbe rest of Davidson my games .as I think tlley're know what tbeY're in for?! over. Nat . toLD-Remember the Bap- O.C.-Thanks for making my , penings of Orientation 617 And birthday $0 good! ! I Love ya., an the tl'Ollble they caused? Tracy Well it's a new year and time to Welcome back to'the U.S.A. Sandi!! I Enjoy the sun and surf of San Diego. I'll be out to visit again. Danny-Stop eating the wings 1 ! ! I want some. You OINKER!!! Poodles unite!! Hey Utica Mutt l H Get the members all togeth~r for a group picture. Cheryl-Drink mutt bitch Trace, I still have the ?$+I key!! ++Lovet Mar Hey L.B. ! ! ! Welcome Back! I missed you! Hope this year is as good as last year. Always, L.B. Sheela \Peeeon\ Walsh-May the bird of happiness pass aver you and dump cold beer down your shirt!! l Fellow Bitch, Cyn Danny-I never claimed to be light on my feet but at least I can make the earth move! t! · '\.dam-when I learn bow to be c~strating- .. WATCH OUT! = 'll be on.e of the first victims you'll have trouble peddling th t Hot Wheel!! ! -:,... . arol and Cory-Good Luck R ·ng!!! Mter living with you bdth. I know what your floors at~ in for. It'll be great! ! ! move onward and upward! l ! ! · Get Fizzed! Nat- Cher-Men •.•.. we don't need them, right? Nat P.S. Let me know when you find the million dollar man and introd•tce me to his brother! l Frosh Cross Country Run· ners-En}oy Orie.\ltation have a good season and a .fantastic year!! To the lineworkers-Thanks for a really fun time and a super job. We knew we could do it all along. Hey, with members like the ones we have ...... .love you. Wally Woman-you are one of the strongest people I know. And itts OK not to be sure. It's part of being a WOMAN. You can sleep tmder my afghan anytitne. Love you. Mar: Let's go out for another dinner to mother ferros!! Tortonis and the Schenectady police topped off a great evening. Filet and pimp mobile driver: Sorry we had to give you up to RA training. ~But Cor, don't worryt I took good care of D. k:' f 0 !!If 1c 1e or you... ops .... E. T.-Weebles wobble and they sometimes even fall down, on oome nights ... I will not get in tbe shopping cart guys. try for a third time??? basta lu.ego mis amigas. The Poodles shall reign forever. Sarah-didn't you finish that schedule yet?? Natalie-is that light on in West? . ----------- ..... -------- Good morning Sunshine. I hope that YOW\ floor appreciates your enthusiasm and that yow mattress is as firm as everyone says it is. What? CanJt hear you Cor! Weebles, can you make it to the bathroom O.K. t ! ONeill-I guess that Irish brain does work after all. Psychology majors of the world, unite. After all~ cnm- pared to an engineer, all other majors are a luxury. Kamakazi Woman: rll cart you around Price Chopper anytime. \Thank you. Come Again.\ No-the names tags are not being done again! ! Anyone throwing away or losing their tags face horrible tortures by the O.C. membership crew! ! ! But dontt worry, we don't really believe the total membership is that big. Hey Adam and Doug: Word is out that you give good jello! ! t He breaks tennis rack~ts with his bare hands. He must be QUITE a member- Well Peon I finally figured out why you never liked Circe. She has neater living habits than you ever had! 1! Mike: Bee Spray?!? Circe: My little poopsie!! Mommy loves you so very mucb! I eanJt wait till we're together again II To the Uptight member of our group, have a good time at Catskill Game Farm. Adam--Happy Tuesday! Orientation or the mornings in bell week woulqn't have been the same without you. Thanx for everything. M. Members <mlyl ! I Oh Doug I'm sorry! l I promised to leave your member out of this! ! You excite me ... So does your membership! ! ! Prof. Bill Thomas--\My FIRST college experience.\ Dinner was tres bien. Sorry you did not show. Stay out of trouble in France! ! ! Mark Valentine welcome back to Union! ! ! Good to have you back!! Love Tracy Some tennis rackets just dontt hold up ... but then again some members just don't last eigher ... uh mar To someone very speciaL .may all her world travels soon come to an end, because someane misses you very much ... will. for short. Plastamatic .. our company is going down the drain, but I think it is due to ...•. your in- volvement in \99. S. W. . .. I hope the beer bath didn't stain your members. Sheila-suck it in, it's time to go! ! Transition? Tradition? Enfusiasm!! M. Marge-the third meeting is . all yours-what are you going to discuss? Taken any showers lately? By the way. what does it mean when you stick your tongue out? Doug-! always thought you might have a kinky streak in you but you really got INTO that Jell{). MMMMMMM! On the 50 yard line, people turn into gnomes ... don't they madge? Mar-I'm only kidding ... Sarah-life IS rough with oral fixations like ours!! Aylesworth-·! know that you're only using me for my zucchini bread but if the offer is still there, I accept! Dave-you never should have said that you could type. M & T-Well, I guel:!s this iS it. Who volunteered· for this job, . anyway? It's been great ..... sigh. Doug-daquiri man with the jello colored hair. You will have to learn to keep your member in better control. My members don't appreciate your kind of shananagans. This one eyed jack is yours, baby ..... drink double, faggot. To the other half of the Irish lasagna team with the Italian touch-good luck with RA Nat-did you ever get the feeling that Jack Daniel's, tonic and lemon don't mix? Maybe we should have tried the Hawaiian punch. Trace- .. ride in any carts lately? By the. way, how is your tummy, eh? Thank you, come again. Happy 21st. poodle! Poindexter-if the fourth wfuduw isn't lit we can alwaya reiy on ce~ain sexy ·committee members. N- Well+VIarandSheila: Shall we Ask The Expert -.WE DELIVER- 374-1888 464 State St. Schenectady, NY Wishes to welcome back Union students and faculty and a:lso to meet the new students We're proud to have been serving Union since 1912 at the corner of State St. and Erie Blvd. In the \Oidn State Arcade - 377-1515 5 Barber/Stylists High in quality, low in price (Same as last year) We appreciate your business Editor's Note: Doctor Nor- man Birnbach, noted professional, has signed a lucrative contract with 'Con- cordiensis for the publication of his insightful conunents. Doctor Bimbach will gladly answer letters at his discretion if they are addressed to Concordlensls, Box 2577, and received by Monday, 4:00p.m., the week of printing. Dear Norman, I'm at my wit's end. My roommate is always with some girl in bed and I either wind up listening to heavy breathing or sleeping on the cold hard floor of the living room. What can I do? FedupinFox Dear Fed Up, Ever think about hopping in? Dear Norman, I don't know what to do. I can't seem to keep my relationships with men platonic. Everytime I get emotionally involved with a guy, we wind up in bed and our whole relationship changes. I enjoy sex, but I'd much prefer to have at least one non-physical in- volvement. Please help! Dear Tired out, Tired out What's your problem?! Dear Norman, I feel awful. I've been here for two years already and I can't seem to get anything started with any girls. Even when I go up North I always wind up leaving alone. I don't know what I'm doing wrong. Any suggestions? Hurting in Hickok Dear Hurting, Only one suggestion-GET A NEW FACE! Dear Norman, I'm so depressed. My Dr. Norman Birnbach Expert in Student \Affairs\ boyfriend goes to school far from here and I won't see him until Christmas. I miss him a lot and I am very lonely. Can you help me? Desperate in Davidson Dear Desperate, Maybe I can help. Give me a call. Dear Dr. Birnbach I need your help desperately. My roommate is always hanging out in our room getting wasted. It's impossible to walk in without getting high myself. I can't take it any more. I asked him to go someplace but he just grinned at me ... I don't even know his name ... neither does he. Please help me. Wasted in West Dear Wasted, Ever try Quaaludes?

.. _ Page 12 VARSITY FOOTIALL September 18 Rochester 130 A 25 Hobart 130 l:l October 2 Albany St 130 A 9 Colby uo A 16* RPI 130 H 23 T nnl!y uo H 30 Wtllrams 130 A November 6 Mtddlebury 1:30 H 13 Hamilton 130 A *Homecpll'ltng Weekend Coach; AI Bapoli JAYVEE FOOTBA~L September 20 RPI 330 A October f Mtddlebury 300 H 11 HVCC (B) 7:30 A 25 Wtllrams 3:00 A November I Albany St 300 A 8 Wtlbraham-Munson .300 H WOMEN'S VOllEYBAlL September WOllEN'S TENNIS 20 Sk1dmore 7:00 H ~2 Army, St. F ranc1s 4:00 A September 25 Albany Tourney 9a.m. A 27 Ham1lton 4;00 H 30 Vassar, N .. Paltz 6:00 A 29 Albany St. 3:00 A October 30 Clllgate 3:30 A 4 Stena 7:00 H October 7 N. Adams. Wtlltams 7:00 A 2 RPI 11:00 A 12 Albany St 7:00 A 4 Mtddlebury 3;00 A 14 LeMoyne 6:00 H 6 Onellnta 3;30 A 16 Pace 11 a:m. H 9 Russell Sage 1:00 A 20 S1ena 7:00 A 11 Vassar 3:30 H 23&24 NE Tournament 13 RPI 3:30 H at Williams A 14 Skidmore 3:30c i-f 27 R. Sage, Albany 7:00 H 16 Siena 11:00 A 29&30 St. Lawrence Tourney A 18 Hartwick 3:30 A November •n·s~ER September 15 Hartwtck 3:30 18 St. Lawrence 11:()0 22 Cortland roo 25 'Army- 2:00 29 Hamtlton 3:30 Oetober 2 Hmghamton 2'00 6 Alban,y St. 7\30 8 Aluml'lt 7.30 11 Kmgs Pomt 4:00 14 Stena 3:30 15 RPI c 8:00~ 20 Colgate 3:00 23 PlattsbiHgh 2:00 27 Oneonta 3:00 30 Rochester 2:00 November 3 Mansi 2:30 Coach: Bob Mac\ JAYVEE MEN'S SOCCER September 25 - RPf 11:00 29 Hamtlton 3:30 October 4 HartWICk 3:00- 6 Albany St. 3:30 13 Albany St. . 3:30 15 RPI 6:00 18 S1ena 3:30 23 Berkshtre CC 10:30 WOMEN'S, SOCCER september 28 Stena 4;00 30 Colgate 3:30 October 2 RPI 11:00 7 Siena 3:30 14 Skidmore 7:()0 18 RPI 3:30 20 Hamilton 4:00 26 LeMQyne 3:30 29 Vassar 7:00 November A A \' H A A H H H A H H A A A H .H A A A H A H H H A A H H H A A H H September 2 5 Colgate 1:00 A October 2 MJddlel>ur~ 1:00 H 9 T nntt~. Wtlllams 1:00 A '16 RPI 12:00 H 23 CO Meet 12:00 H 30 Albany lnvy 12.:00 A November 1 IC4A A 6 - State Meet·at LeMoyne 13 NCM..Qualify•~g Meet . at {redorna Coach: Russ Ebbets - Home. Meets for both meh.andwomen are:held at Central Park. ' · WOMEffS CROSS~COUNf~Y September 18 Saward lnv.y 25 Williams lnvy October 1:00 1:00 A A 2 9 1'6 23 30 Middlebury 12:30 H Trt!llly, Williams, Smtih tOO A RPI 11:30 'H CO M~et 12:00 tf ·NYSAIAW Meet 12:00 A Coach: Russ Ebbets FIELD HOCKEY Septe111ber 24 .Skidmore '(A&B~ 6:30 H 27 Hamilton 4:00 H Oct()ber 1 Wells 4:00 A 2 Rochester 1:00 A 4 Middlebury 3:00 A 6 Oneonta (A&B) 3:30 A 9 Russell Sage ,(A&B) 1:00 A 0 Vassar 3:30 H 13 RPI 4:00 H 16 Siena 11:00 A 18 Hartwick (A&B) -3:30 A 22 Potsdam - 6:00 H 2 Albany St. 7:00 H Coach: Mary Gillespie 22-25 N.Y. Stale 3 R. Sage, One11nta 6:00 A 23 Manhattanvilfe 5:00 H Coach: Lynne Barta Coach: leslie Arakelian 'Coach: Marty Morrison Wednesday, Septe 15 TAKE ''The Schenectady Express~' time- 7:45 pm place- pick-up in front of Carnegie price- $5.00 Come to Canal Side Restaurant For all you can eat Then to good clean f.un at The NEW Electric Grinch- C.C. -Good Home Cooking Baked Ziti Bread Pizza Tossed Salad ......._..__CA N/\L 61Dt~ _ .. ~ · Qf0TAUQ/\NT 426 State St. i11 the Heart of Canal Square Free Bee~·----------...-....- 9-10 Free Admission Band The Works Rock n Roll Return to Union at 12 .am Free T-Shirts to First 75 People COME 0-N DOWN - -C: c. 0 :;:: ~ c :J 0 u:. 5 If) Uni F E Bei four ·• touch donO'' learn issue: Wooc FellO' the Vi 1973 t the \ and t1 they 1 issue! realn munit origin millio un ' y suppo found, Eac ChOOSI send l select in v~ busim etc. 1 has I Found prestil Progr• volvec next t1 will bi per ~ Raskii Sa turd at thE OctO bE Mr. divers preseJ Direct1 Counci group r.elatin in the Haskin York 1 vanci(l Corres] Corres1 positior He has his re] dustria nalism, Polk M Page C York N In ad field of \Chief' Army'! Divisior as well Presid4 Univers dustrial Assistar

A H A H H A at A A H A 'H H A -CXll, No. 2 York September 23, 1982 r:: 0 :;:: ID '0 c: :;) 0 U:. c: 0 !! §: >- ..0 0 .. 0 .c a. Law Sobers Campus By DOUG LANDON -; NewsEdftor Union wlU be honored by the presence of A.H. Raskin At midnight on Saturday, December 4, a new law .con- cerning New York State's alcohol consumption policy takes effect. Under the statute, no person less than nineteen years of age will be pennitted to be served or sold alcoholic beverages in the State. Union, as a result, will be forced to observe and make provisions for the law. Fellowship Sends Raskin By SHERRY WElTZEN Staff Being isolated in college for four years, students often lose touch with the outside world and do not realize that what they are learning in class is pertinent to issues in· the \teal worW'. The Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation created the Visiting Fellows~ogram in 1973 to .enlighten students about the \world of practical ~fairs and to show students that what · they are studying is relevent to issues and events outside the realm- ~of. the college com~ mtu1ity. The Foundation was originally supported by a one million dollar • grant from the. Lilly Foundation, an<\ is now ' supported by a number of other foundations and corporations. · Each year, tHe ·Foundation chooses colleges to which they send Fellows. The Fellows are selected individuals who work in various fields, such -as business, journalism, acting, etc. This year, Union College has been selected by the F-Oundation to participate in the prestigious Visiting Fellowship Program. Union · will be in- volved in the program for the next three years, until1985, and will be visited by two Fellows per year. Tbe first, A.H. Raskin, will be arriving on SatUJ.1day, October 9, and will be at the college until Friday, October 15. Mr. Raskin has a vast and diversified history. He is presently the Associate Director ot the National News Council, a non profit, voluntary group that deals with issues relating to' news organizations in the country. Prior to this, Haskin worked for the New York Times for 43 years, ad- vancing . from a . College Correspondent to Chief Labor Correspondent, to holding a position on the editorial board. He has won various awards for his reporting, service to in· dustrial relations, and jour- nalism, including the George Polk Memorial Award and the Page One Award of the .New York Newspaper Guild. In addition to working in the field of journalism, he served as \Chief ·of the Labor of the Army's tndustrial Services Division\· during World War II, as well as tcconsultant to the President's Committee on Universal Training;; and ''in- dustrial relations advisor to the Assistant Secretary of- Defense for Man Power.\ Raskin has taught at Columbia. University Graduate School of Business and Pace University. He also wrote \David Dubinsky, A Life with Labor\ with David Dubinsky. During his visit to Union, Mr. Raskin will be giving talks, having discussions in a variety of places, including classes, dorms, over lunch, cocktails, etc. There wm be at least one public lecture to . which the · public is invited. Raskin _has informed the College of selected topics that he would like to talk about to and with the college community. For example, he will discuss\Joumalism as a Career\with the career center staff so they can in turn help those students interested in going into that field. Other topics he wishes to discuss are New Techoology and the First Admendment, Mass Media Biased to the Liberal Side, and the Changing Nature of Work in Organized Labor. Additional arrangements are being made, and the full schedule wUl be printed when all is confirmed. Union's participation in the Visiting Fellows Program is being tilad;e p0$Si ble by a · generoqs grant from the Jolm Ben Snow Fo\illdation, Inc. Last March, the Vic~ President of the Woodrow Wilson National F~llowship Foundation came to 'Onion to discuss,· with some of the faculty,. the selection of a Fellow to come to this campus. Professor William Daniels of ~the Political Science Depart~ ment was chosen as campus coordinator. Campus Development: - Repairs Progress By MARCYBURSTINER News Editor The Union College Administration, in conjunction with the Board of Trustees and thePlanning and Priorities Committee, has begun. se.veral major renovation projects in order to improve the safety, maintenance, and aesthetic quality of the campus. According to John G. Litynski, Director of Campus Planning and Development, it is the policy .of the Administration to annually prioritize the campus needs and to allocatethe limited funds available to those con• cerns which are most pressing. The AdiQinistration apparently felt that the three most ·urgent problems were the renovations and general improvements ~o the Administration Building and Silliman Hall, the Arts , Building, and Hickok Hpuse. What follows is a breakdown of each project and the costs and renovations involved. · The Administration Building and SilHman Hall - The primary purpose in renovating the two bulldings was to provide accessibility for -the han- dicapped. Aceording to John R. Hauser, Vice President for Finance_ and Administration, \whether 'Or not we have handicapped per:;~ons on campus is not an issue.\ Federal law requires _that any institution accepting federal funds must have at least minimum accessibility for handicapped persons. Upon inspection of the two facilities, it was found that the Cashier's Office, Personnel, Health Services, and the Office of the Registrar were most in need of alterations in order to provide at least minimum accessibility. In order to remedy the situation, elevators, exit ramps, and bathroom facilities for the handicapped were installed. Upon surveying the extent of repairs necessary, additional advantages to renovation were discovered. It became apparent that there was ,an excess of office space in Silli:man Hall. In order to afford a more efficient utilization of the space available, the health facilities were condensed to one level, Personnel was moved to the first floor, the Registrar's office will be transferred from the Administration Building, and additionql · office space was established in the basement. In terms of aesthetic im- provements, several layers of paint were removed to reveal the original chestnut woOdwork, all of which has since been restored. In the Administration Building,. the Cashier's office Contfuued on page 2 Dean of St11dents, Dr. Joseph Mammola, clearly stated that there will be no change in Union's intention to obey the law. Enforcement procedure, however, is causing Administration to review present policies on drinking, probably to settle on one of the following plans, according to Mammola. One possibility is to prohibit those students under nineteen years of age from entering either the Rathskeller or the Dutch Hollow Pub. Another alternative centers around. strict enforcement of the drinking age-at the bars, by J.D. card check or hand stamps received at the. entrance. The Administration could opt to discontinue all alcohol service at both the Skeller and the Pub, or close the establishments down altogether, though Mammola admits the latter to be unlikely. Dean Mamrnola contends that, at least for the time being, the newly implemented Skeller polici'es of one drink per sale and discontinued sales of pit- chers.of beer will remain. Many· freshmen are still under · eighteen years old. . An objective the new Dean of Students has for Union is to \interrelate socializing, dining, entertainment, and drinking on campus.\ He enthusiastically speaks of an atmosphere which includes drinking, but where alcohol is not the center of at- tention. Perhaps live en- tertainment could be provided in the Puo in a program similar to Cabaret. Mammola also suggests the possibility of weekly non- alcohol nights of · perhaps Monday and Wednesday in both the Skeller and the Pub. \Dutc~an's Night,\ a special dinner program available to stu~ents on meal plans. is scheduled to beheld in the Pub. Manunola also gives his ap. proval for that plan. In regard to his own opinion of the new nineteen year old drinking age, Mammola points out that he came to Schenectady from Bucknell University in Pennsylvania, where the statewide drinking age is twenty-one. He does not believe, however, that a correlation exists between age and drinking responsibllity, and adamantly stresses that he · is not a prohibitionist. Although INSIDE Mammola has no strong feelings one way or the othe~ on the specifics of this law, he is willing to ''accept the wisdom of the Legislature\ on tlJ.is matter. Mammola emphasizes the \dual responsibility of the college and individuals to obey the law.\ Failure to comply with the statute could result in the loss of Union's license to dispense alcoholic beverages. Janet R. Gray, Director of Food Services, takes a more negative opinion of the new law. \Legislation doesn't affect behavior or morality,\ Gray believes. \I think education does. You can.'t legislate con- temporary mores. Educate people to intelligent, respon- sible choice.\ Regardless of her personal feelings, though, Gray has every intention of honoring the law. The option of keeping the Pub and the Skeller off limits to those under nineteen is not one that Gray would like to see implemented, but legal im- . plications make it a \very genuine possibility.\ She sees it as the__safest alternative for the college, if indeed alcohol is to be served on campus. Union conducted a study of how other colleges and univ~rsities in New York State are attempting to handle the situation, and found some schools near the Canadian border are planning to com- pletely eliminate the sale of alcohol on their campuses. This is not the course of action Gray wishes to take. Though Gray would like to see the Pub and Skeller open to all students, with proof of age needed only to purchase drinks, she sees definite problems with the idea. To insure that minors are not served, all patrons would be proofed at the . bars. Gray fears students will buy drinks for their friends who are under the legal age, or even allow them to drink from their glasses. fJowever, she added, \As a member of the Student Affairs Department, I have no desire to rush into a decision that is going to antagonize and penalize the students.\ The Food Service Director hopes fo return pitchers and · multiple sale of drinks to the Skeller. If done, this would mean each person receiving a drink at either the Skeller or the Pub, or a glass for use with a pitcher of beer, would have to Contbfued on page 2 THE ARTS: pp. 5 & 6 LETTERS: pp. 8 & 9 COMMENTARIES: p~ 9 CLASSIF JEDS: pp. 11 & 12 DUTCHMEN SPORTS: pp. 13-16

Page2 CONOOlJ,DlliJNSJS, Septe.mber U, 198$ Morris Welcomes Class taw Stiffens Editor's Note; The following Is the convocation speech given by President Morris to the In• coming freshman class on Saturday, September 11, 1982, In Memorial Chapel. I have just returned from a week with a group of Union College students and with three other members of the faculty who have been involved in an - experimental course which has taken place on the Isle of Shoals, ten miles off the Maine Coast. The course we have called ''The Images ofthe Sea\ and, taught by a philosopher, two biologists, an engineer and a sociologist, tries to capt·ure the many facets of the sea and th~ island domain. The Island of Appledore - about the size of Union's campus- is primarily inhabited by sea gulls and a few marine biologists. To spend a long period of time away from everything we take for granted was a remarkable .experience. The time we spent together in that isolating environment made us aware of a number of things that we would have not ever experienced. We recognized our dependence upon each other, relationships became important, we were aware of our dependence upon the machinery of civilization as a fragile thing which could break down at any moment. Our sense of who we are and our relationship to society and the technological elements of our civilization became significantly enhanced. In other words, we learned a lot because we were essentially cut off from our normal habitat, because we were thrown upon our own res~urces for entertainment and :because -we were·given ·a sense of limit · as well as limitations. There is something of this kind of isolation that is characteristic of college life. As students, you come here from your family .society and enter into a new and larger com- munity - a community whose basic reason for existence is the life of the mind. In no uncertain terms you are brought together into a society which has its own set of priorities, and its own set of intellectual values and its own set of purposes. The life on this island you accept as an important kind of community concern - one that I hope you will take seriously. In coming to Union you join a society which still believes that it is in understanding that is found the motive force for a· wider and more significant life. We might not give you the useful skill to prepare you for a particular job, but we do give you the means by which you will better Understand yourself and your task in life. It would be quite inappropriate for a College like Union to either present itself as, or turn itself into, a vocational training college. There is, frankly, a far more impoJ,\tant job to be done- that is the task of helping you prepare yourself for your own humanity. We will provide a forwn within which you are given an opportunity to question your values and yoi.Jr beliefs, to look at yourself and. your world through the prism of the scholarly disciplines. Let me emphasize, however, that all we can do is to give you the opportunity~-we cannot force you to accept it, we cannot . force you to examine yourself, these are tasks you will take up for yourself or they will not be taken up at all. Unless you raise the questions about your own life, you may find yourself unable to par~ ticipate in a Wider and more creative li'fle. This is the place where such discoveries can be made. We need to put our careers in· the perspeetive of life itself. And here we are .forced to confront the inevitable question about the nature of life. It is an extraordinarily difficult and elusive question in the sense lh-at we have the . potential for embracing life in our living- and the nature of that embrace is often determined by dominant pictures and themes of our time. The answers to the question of life are determined by the context within which we ask those questions, and the questions are ultimately very difficUlt to answer because we need. to be able to step outside these dominant images that surround us. But how do we develop the questions we should be asking about our life's work? My belief is that the person who has been trained only to do his work will only accomplish the task in hand without any reflection. There will be no distance from the task at hand. It is the distance brought · by reflection that makes a vital difference. Reflection, thought, is our htunan means of standing off, standing apart from the world and even ourselves. It is · through the process of un- derstanding that we are able to comprehend our environment and thus are able to shape it according to our pattern. I do not want to suggest that this is without its problems, but the alternative is that we become shaped by out environment by our acceptance of What it does to us. It is a temptation for us to drift along the current of life w-ithout asking ourselves whither we go or from whence we have come, but to· do that is to deny what is most ~charac­ teristic about us, namely, our hwnanity, our freedom to think and to be ourselves. The key word here is un- derstanding, and this ·i$ not simply knowing how we func- tion and how the elements of the world function, but asking the questions ''whence?\ and ''whither?'' These questions arise within the context of the study of history, of the Hwnanities, . find of the pure sciences. They are questions that are never raised within the context of technique where the questions are narrowly determined by the \hows\ and the \wherefores.\ You and I live in a world which demands from us that we work, and too often .gives us status by the kind of work we do. But the work In itself does not give. enrichment even- though it might .give us riches; status does not in itself give us security even .though .it might bring us prestige. We can move heaven and earth to create for ourselves a work that can bring riches and .status, but this does not mean tbat it will bring us el!_riching lives or the real satisfaction of knowing or being able to look to find out who we are. I would not claim for the Liberal Arts that they can do this latter task, but they do provide the means by which we can ponder the past, enable us to look at the future and to be aware of the meaning of self~ discipline, and above all · the essential nature of what it Continued Qn page 3 Dean Pleased - - By MICHELLE NOVELLA Staff According to the Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid, Ken Nourse, \this year is the best I've had in twenty-five year.s in this profession. •• Dean Nourse is referring to the fact that nearly forty percent of the students accepted by Union for membership into the class of '86 chose to enroll. Dean Nourse also said that his goal is to increase the yield (the percentage of those accepted who actually choose to enroll) to forty percent because a higher yield \suggests the college is getting more selective. We're trying to take fewer students and get more of those we take.\ ThP Admissions Office con- tinues to emphasize on,..campus interviews. The number of actual interviews rose from 2,850 last year to the present 3,342. The Admissions Office also noted that the class of 1986 had a hundred percent at- tendance during orientation. Continued from. page l present himself or he.-self.at the bar with an I.D. every time the purchase is made. Gray does not know at this time whether or not the establishment~. can afford to pay the increased number of bouncers and checkers needed to monitor such a system. The .managers of each bar make their own decisions concerning pitchers and the limited sale of drinks. Gray advocates responsible social drinking and looks for- wardto integrating alcohol with entertainment and special events. As of October 4, \Dutch- ' man's Night\ will beheld every Monday and WednesClay in the Pub, featuring soft, mellow entertainment with drinks and wine available. \Dry nights'' may be held one or two other weeknights. Stressing that she does not want to change the purpose of the Skeller or i~ relaxed,. in- formal atmosphere, Gray does hope to upgrade its ifuag~. At present, her plans include the addition of sal~iid .and sundae barst new counters, ·microwave ovens, expanded menu · and daily, specials. Rathskeller manager -Brian Cotterell hopes th~t th~ im- provements will encourage groups atld organizations on campus to utilize the Skeller for purposes other than just drinking. Theme nights and ethnic (German, French, Italian, etc.) nights are ideas he expresses optimlsmabout. Such events would be held \once or, twice a month, with waitresses hired to serve the food. The possibility of a weekly Coffee House evening is being con- sidered,· as well as si:mllar actiyities for. other nights. . · Cotterell )>oints out. that before Cabaret was started, the Skeller boasted live en- tertainment from a small stage area where the pinball and video games are now located. In fact, back in the SO's, Arlo Guthrie, Don McLean, Bob Dillon and other relatively unknown musicians of the time performed in theSkeller. Both Cotterell and assistant manager Matt Feehan see age restrictions for entrance as the easiest way to enforce. the new law OI) nights theSkeller is open for regular business. If minors are allowed to enter, prohibiting others from slipping them drinks is considered difficult, if not impossible, by Cotterell and Feehan. Bouncers and checkers might not be able to handle the situation. At present, Cotterell employs a . bouncer at each entrance and one checker in the bar area. Lack of control prohibits Cotterell from reinstituting th.e sale of pitchers and multiple drinks even without the new law, as abOut 120 freshmen are still under eighteen, the .present drinking age outlined in Section 65ofthe NewYorkState Liquor Authority Code. Cotterell Js .. sympathetic to stucleilts ~tit off from some of the social aspects of college Hfe because of the law, but must protect Union from the loss of its liquor license and any potential lawsuits .. The new law, Cotterell believes, wUl probably· not have much effect on alcohol related auto · accidents,. but he un~ <ierstands the Legi$lature's desb•e to curtail dririking on the high school level. He feels that if the legal drinking .age is to be raised, it shoUld, be raised by more than one year. Union Administration is also cQriceriied about the im- plications the restriction wm have on fraternity and sorority parties. Dean Mannnola. ex- pects that · the form Greek organization officers-must sign in order to schedl}le a party, which forbids them to se...Ve minors, will deter the groups from breaking the law. Each house will have the option of either restricting entrance by age or refusing alcohol to minors at the party. If caught serving drink~ to students under age; the fraternity or sorority coUld have conduct charges fil~d against it. According to Cotterell, police cpuld, if so inclined, arrest off1cers arid even brothers or sisters of the organization violating the law. Gray also fears minors may become ~xicated at parties, enter the Skeller or, Pub if all students are allowed ad- . mittance, and then blame the Skeller if qqestioned by authorities about where they received the alcohol. Steps have been taken in anticipation of a decision. I.D. cards· issued to the class of '86 have a dark circle stamped on them, indicating the student will not be nineteen years of age as of December 4. Whichever policy is chosen, the new law will affect a high percentage of students. In any given year, almost the entire freshmen class, plus a few sophomores, are under the age of nineteen. Mammo.la, who definitely plans to have a decision before the l~w takes effect, hopes . ro discuss policy alternative~ with the Student Affairs Council and meanwhile requests student input and suggestions. Of the 3,054 students that applied 1,317 were accepted for a freshman class of 520. The munber of applicants dropped slightly, but the decline is one felt by most private colleges, as students now find it more dif- ficult to finance their educations. Thirty-eight per~ cent of Union's present fresh- man class receive some sort of financial aid. Campus Shapes Up The applicants accepted consisted of 802 men and 513 women. The students come from a variety of areas, with the majority, fifty-six percent, from New York. Twenty-eight percent ,come from New England, and 12.6 .percent from the Mid-Atlantic states. In all, Union received applications from forty states, Canada, and several foreign countries. Early decision applicants rose to a total of 140, a number much more significant than in previous years. Also higher this year is the number of students who have attended private schools. This year's figure is twenty-seven percent, while last year only twenty percent of the class had come from private schools. The composite SAT scores neither rose nor declined but instead remained at 1,180. And as in previous years, the class of '86 also ranked in the top twentieth percentile of their high school graduating classes. Continued from page l was moved to the eastern section of the building, and a receptionist and lobby for visitors will be situated in the main entrance to the :building. The estimated cost fol' renovating the two buildings is estimated at $200,000. The Arts . Building - The purpose of renovation to . the Arts Building was threefold. The first consideration was the remedy of code <!_eficiencies such as improving circulation and installing an enclm~ed central stairway. The general appearance of the entrance to the building was then taken into account and display space was designed. Finally, tpe office of the chairman will be moved down to the first floor, there will be improved performing arts space, and an improved graphics studio. Other im- provements are planned for the futurej but the initial phase, described above; should be completed by the second week of October. . This initial phase will have .an estimated cost of •$225-250,000. Hickok House -According to Litynski, · a great deal t>f con- struction to Hickok House :was necessary .. The soil on one end of the building was settling and there were problems with the foundation, causing cracks to form in the walls and roof. \They were causing some quality of life problems,\ Litynski explained,. \because rain and wind .were cmhi)lg through the walls and roof.\ Th~re were, in addition, con- stant maintenance problems and even more important, a \major erosion of occupants- they would come in September and by December it would be 45 percent empty. \It just wasn't a pleasant place to live.\ Basically, there were three major problems to be rectified. Safety of residents had to be taken into account. Safer stairways and fire exits were \ installed and the asbestos was removed from Hickok, Raymond and Potter Houses. Secondly, the general .ap~ peatance 'of the building was considered; the rooms were enlarged, and color and lighting were improved. Last of all, an estimated half a dozen ad- ditional rooms were added when they found, as in the ·case ofSillim¥ Hall, there.had been an inefficient use of available space. The amount of money spent in the renovation of the building . when completely finished, will total an estimated $30(!,000. The target date for com- pletion of the renovations, in- cluding complete cleanup of the buildings and surrounding grounds is set, if all goes well, for Homecoming Weekend. . Four major projects planned for the future and presently at the top of the campus priorities list, are renovations and ad- (/ontinued on page 1 -- N coati mean To le hiStOr andtc is to dignit withJ Liber• know ,Jll'DYil them. In( transi learni to tht oursel prQC~ facts, techni1 see th; the ' challe1 come~ prorrul forget1 whole put. have: never passed should t~m. hel~o.u proili.U the.wo. us thiS rthe fut m~ti made1 of wor too ell run to,· Them alway~ promi.s and \1 ticipatc derstru In Appled earlier boat 1

the ent ion Js .. off .. if be bY ~x­ ek ps of to s, j •. OONOOBDlBN&lB, Beftember 13, 1981 Pyes - Morris Greets Freshmen Coldllltl.~ .,... ·.p~~e •. means to be d~cated tQ .a task. To leam. not to trample upon bistOey, not tQ deny dedication and.to flnch~ discipline of rniqd, is to le&l'll r~spect for hwuan dignity an<J worth. nus comes with many things ottterttum .the Liberi4 Art$,: ;but ~t ·Iealt. we know that the Uberal Arts .. Jlrovide tne ground work for them. standing in the dusk waving to ·us, r thought then of the subtle change.s that had occurred because we had been toge!Jler - working together. .playing tog~ther on that isolated spot. And as, in the jpumey along. ten miles of ocean l.prepared to join our latger civUization again, I was aw.are of the fact that what had· OCcurred, what changes had com~, had prepared me to meet life in subtly different but important ways. r expect you !VU1 .find the same as you Uve here in this QOIJUnlirtity - what YO\l. will _ le~ttn: .about yourselves and. about yo!Jt W'ol\ld within the cQntext .of these intellectual v~l~~s Will prepare you to meet a world awaiting you ..,. prepare you fo.r a joumey in which your mlnd Will become more able to mUe, sense and order out of chaos, .and it is this ability that will mark you as different in the years allead. · there is a story thiJt Black- beard the .pirate buried some of his treasure on the Isle of Appled()re and left one of his loves on the Island promising to return to .fetch her and the treasure. He did not return and there .i$ a legend that some moonlit night. the ghost of the woman he left behind can be seen. looking out to the ocean and saying, \You will return.'' I cannot vouch for the truth of the rumor. I have heard that as seniors if you walk by the $atue of Chet Arthur you might bear him whisper, \You Will return.\ I hope that your eXperience here Will be such that you Will want to hear Chet Arthur's call. Booked Solid l by PAULCHOQUETI'E and.MIKESHERIDAN In recent years,. the issue of overcrowded donnitories has become a m•jor concern at Union College. This year, ac- cording to A~iate Dean of Residence Ufe I,>avid Wood, the problem is more acute than ever before. This fall, there are an unpr~ndented 45 suites lodging five persons. The ttll;ljority of these are freslunen rooms, although some sophomores live in them on a volunteer basis. Fox and Davidson dormitories, says Wood, contain the most five person suites on campus. When aSked the reason for the overcrowding, Wood attributed it to an unexpectedly large enrollment of new· students. Ideally, the class of 1986 should have had 520 students, as well a8 the expected 21 commuter students. Instead, there _Bfe currently 534 freshmen and 16 new comm11ter students. Thus, additional freshmen and fewer COJllJlluters place a stress on the already unfavorable hoUJiling conditions.. Furthermore, the trall$fer class was unusually large this year. 1n fOllege, then, we begin a transation ·. from the ·passive learning of tecbniqlte~ and facts to . the, active engagement: ·of ourselves. in the· educational process. We still have to learn facts. and in.form·ation and techniques, bat we now ~gin. to see that we are ·.partlci~ts in the worl(l of ideas. That challenge of the world of ideas comes ·with both risk and promise. We .bear ~e t~k of forgetting that we are not the whole of reality, for we have· a ~t? we ·stand ·where others have stood before. We . must never forget that many have passed ~s way and that we shoUld. l·eara · htnilbly from, ~. But -there · is a promise · hehJ qut before liS anc:t that i.t the promiSe of. cn~r contribution to the world of ideas. For many of us this will stand somewhere in 1 the future, but. nevei!'thele~ we rriust'aceept. tbe. WlllJaftd. that is made upon 1ls by. the dlsciplme of work. and recognize that we too can tontribute in the long run to,· tflis -.orid of .knowl~e:· The risk of failuteis~ of cQtn\Se always present .. but so is the promise and h()pe that we can and will . be ourselves par- ticipators in the world ·of un- derstanding. Controls Tightened According to Wood there are no «:lefinite plans to alleviate the present housing problem._ Various ideas have · been discussed, among them the renovation of the lower dorms which would offer not only structural and decorative 'improvements, but also an increase of living spac~ .. Another possibility is the construction of rooms in the basements .of the Fox and Davidson dormitories. Modification of existing dorms is more feuible, according to Wood, becatJSe of the exhor- bitant cost of constructing new buildings. This cost, he says, \can exceed $16,000 per bed~\ With decli,ung enrollment in private colleges, a new dor- mitory might not be necessary in future y~ars, says WOOd. At ·present, however, there are still many upperclassmen living off campus, although not all cases are due to insufficient hou,c~ing. In leaving the Isle of Appledore last Tuesday, a little earlier than tile others, as our boat left with om- students ByPAtrLCBOQUE'M'E .aDd MICIJAELSIIERIDAN This y~ar some radical ch~nges are planned for the mode of -distl'ibution of Student F(lrJlll'l fwl(Js. In recent years the easy ~~ibility of such fi.Ulds has been abused and. consequently criticized. The funds of the Student Forwn are bt,&dgeted and distributed to manyofUnionCollege's student organizations. Prev-iously, supervision of such funds has been quite lax according to Bart Hill, Vice-President of the Student Finance Committee. As the system operates, each college orgarmation is allotted a certain amount of fwuls by the Finance Committee. In ord!r to secure . funds under tl\' · con· troversial 1ystern, organization heads had simply to request money lOOm the Forum budget and were . usually granted it without fully explaining their need for it. \It was a system based on trust,\ said am. The Finance Conunittee has consi~ered methods to tighten the rems on the system used for :Obtaining funds. Among the ·methods Hin says will be in- stituted·are: (1) an application for funds must be submitted and specifically state the purpose for the grant, (2) organization heads will be required to keep ledgers tJ,·acing their spending. These ledgers, to be used as TEtEMANN-La Lyre. Suite; VlVAL.Pt ........ concertc> for Viblin &. Cell OJ RESPIGHI-AtnJient Ai¥S & Dances, Suite No. 3) SlA;Mil'Z;;......Sym}ihony; ·BRiltEN--S'Jmple SymphollYl ' MOZA:Ri~Eine k.h:~ine NachtlllU$ik FR!$·E Wrt'H ONION 1.0, tUES. EVE., SEPT. 28 AT 8 P.M. UNION COL~EGE MEMORIAL CHAPEL liclcets: Schenectady Museu:tn HilS) 382·7890; All Community B.ox Offices, and-at the door $6, Sttrdents $3. Information 372·3651 (eVenings), safeguards, will help, says Hill, because they can- be audited by the Finance Committee; therefore, . coverups are .dif- ficult. ''One cannot cheat himself,\ he says. I.Jso, checks will only be issued for explicit uses that are planned and listed fot each organization by the Finance Committee. The installation of a computer to handle ail in- formation associated with distribution of funds is planned. Hill says he hopes the computer (Apple or I.B.M.) will be in- stalled by spring term. All in- formation will be permanently stored in the computer -and easily accessible, thus alleviating .any mishaps in- volving records of budgets. Hill is optimistic that these alterations to the System will do away with the \abused trust\ which marked it before. But he goes onto say that organizational budgets may be negotiated with the Finance Committee and that much communication ;>reviously missing will be made. Hill promised that ''the Finance Committee will be very visible~\ liHie Vinnie's Pizzeria . This past SlliiUUer, Hickok . HoUSe, once considered. one of the poorer dorms bas, ac-- cording to Wood, been tran- sformed into \the most at- tractive and best residence hall on campus.\ These renovations were made, not because of ·insufficient housing, but rather because of certain structural damages. .When asked if ftmds to his department were adequate, Wood said that they had been increasing over the last four years and that they are suf- ficient. He added that three more y~ars of such funding would render Union College housing \competitive\ with painting, carpeting and other renovation projects being caiTied out. Wood also assured us that his staff is \committed to alleviating the problem.\ Free delivery for college 8-12·24 Cut Pizzas Specia I price on party orders Just ask for Vinnie New York's Longest Running Musical Hit. \Hilarious inventive theatre magic.\ New York Daily News To be presented by Social Committee Friday, Sept. 24, 1982 at a p.m. in The Nott Memorial Theatre Tickets on sale in Carnegie Hall/ $2 each (limited tickets available)

Pag~ 4 News in Brief OON7lW1,8NB/$, s,ptemb'r 18, l~ Words of Wisdom By BOB VAN VORIS .Staff. As a service to those of o11r readers who find themselves too ~usy to ~ead the newspaper in Its entirety, Concordiensis unveils New In Brief, an effort to present the week's most important -happenings in a concise, yet informative, manner. Arthur Tapes Uncovered Some have expressed concern, however, that the high ex- pectations of Union's sup- porters mi,ght put undue pressure on Ewing and Perkins. O>ncedes one administration official, \Well it's no secret that our six .. year med program has been floundering for some time. We're really counting on these two young men to come in · and turn that around.\ Nuclear Freeze -. Editor's note: The following words of wisdom were for- mulated as a result of a senior's Union College experience: Law No. 1 } There is no rationale as to what makes one person attractive to another. Law No. 2) People give to, and receive from each other, exactly what they need. La!V No. 3) The level of at- ~ractlveness.of a given male is mversely proportional to the Quality. With which he will treat a female. Law No.4) A penny Saved is a penny saved. · Law No. 5) A given amount of panic directly preceding an exam will not affect the grade received: Law No.6) The probability of a fire drill is directly propor- tiona I to the amount af shampoo in one'·s hair. La~ No.7) A male will give to a female exactly as much as she is willing to take, and no less. ByR( Law No. 8) i.<>ve is not only blind, it is deaf and dumb as well. · The .~wNo. 9) Never ptit-offttilf ·ifi'l~ti tomorrow what you can do , before today-:because if you like it pleasa11 today, .YOU can do it .ag· am· · fill d .· e e· tomorrow. and gid an ever Schaffer Library offiCials today confirmed the existence of several gramophone disks rePQrtedly made by Chester A. Arthur during his term as twenty-first President of the United States. The disks, or \tapes\ as they· are being called, contain portions of Oval Office.conservations, predating the infamous Nixon tapes by nearly a century. In addition to including several expletives deleted, the tapes are said to implicate Arthur in the murder of Abraham Lincoln, as well as the bombing of Cambodia and the Bay of Pigs fiasco. By a vote of 9 to 3, the Student Senate has approved a, resolution calling for . . . There really was no such vote ~ I just made it up.. I suppose I can - write just about anything I want to now. Not to bite the hand that feeds me or anything, but I ~really don't think that anyone ~reads the copy before it goes to the printer. I mean the people on the editorial staff are nice and everything, but then they don't strike me as being any too bright. I hand in my piece and they just sort of stare at it and smile- as if they're admiring the neat typing. It's really weird. I don't mean to criticize.· illiteracy is nothing, to b~ ashamed of these days . . . Dark Age ·Hits Library The 1 fiber in you feel sucked inner·n exaggei persona It is a11 percept] Pink F surreali Debate Announced The Union College Debate Forum has this week received letters from U.S. Senator Edward Kennedy and Office of Management and Budget Director David Stockman, formally accepting an in- vitation to debate before the campus community, The event will take place on the evening of November 10, and will be titled \Medieval Cannabalism: Two Perspevtives.\ Recruiting Succe6ses . After several weeks of in- tense, closed-door bargainin~. ~atrick Ewing of Georgetown Umversity and Sam Perkiil_s of North Carolina have revealed· their shared intention of transferring to Union College at some point in the next few days. While Ewing could not be reached for comment, Perkins, the six-foot, nine-inch junior was quoted as .saying that he hOpes the change to Union will allow him \to perform at least as well as at North Carolina.\ Vaa-Voris Axed _A representative for the Editorial Board of Con- cordiensis has announced that . . . . ' m a unammous vote, the Board has decided to . . . Hey, walt a minute! Can't you guys take a joke? Come on, I was only kidding. Just give me one more chance and I swear I'll never do anything like this again. Falklands Desk Opened Concordiensis is pleased to announce the opening of its Port Stanley desk on the island of East Falkland. The desk, to be staffed by veteran newsman Bob Vim Voris, is eXpected to fill what, until now, has been a very luge gap in the paper's coverage of this area. Editor's Note: We would all like to congratulate Bob on his new assignment. We wish him success and we hope he is able · to get the rest that he so badly needs. By DJ\ VE FITZGERALD Staff With the high cost of energy and the dwindling of.our natural resourses, members of the College Administration have implemented conservation measures. The only problem with the program is that in the zeal to conserve, the College has gone too far. An example is the present lighting situation i,n the Schaffer Library. The word that best describes the lighting environment, on the second floor, in which students are expected to stucty and do research, is dark. Over the summer all the lights on the second .floor have been con- nected to timers that allow the lights to stay on for about ten minutes. Over the study carrels lights have been placed that students are supposed to be able to r:ead by, but they give off aoout as much light as a candle. Students returning to the library this fa11 in their favorite places ha:ve found· that ·they probably could not find them because they could not see them. Student reaction to the new lights has been swift and angry. One student commented, \Wewill all go blind if things are not fixed.\ The library faculty and staff are also upset with the present situation. They agree with students who say that it is just Ask The EXpert too dark. They also want to make it clear that they had no part in the planning of the new lights and that it was not discqssed with them. Dear Norman, I'm really at a loss. My girlfriend is pregnant; but we're both gay. She claims that she doesn't know how it hap- pened since she's been loyal to me. The only thing that she claims may have happened is that the g\ly she met while out drinking at the Skeallar took advantage of her. Problem: aU she remembers is that he is tall, thin, has curly dark hair and wears glasses. How can we find him'? At a Loss Dear At a Loss, Don't ask me. I wear a wig, platform shoes and I'm 'really a blond and wear contact lenses. Dear Norman, What can I do. I'm a senior girl and I keep having freshmen asking me out.. I don't want to hurt them but they're too young. Any advice? Senior Girl Dear Senior Girl, Why turn them down? You're getting older. Go for it! This could be your last chance. Dear Norn1Jm, J\m really exhaust~d. I'm a The library staff feels that ''A library is not a library without lights, as a swimming pool is not a swimming poo~ without water.\ They feel that if one Dr. Norman.Birnbach cannot study in the library, one Expert in Student of the most important uses has \AHairs 11 been stripped away. freshman girl who's been asked Also pointed out in the in- out every night since orien- terview was the opinion that the tation. I'm really getting only real energy saved has been drained. What can I do? from people not being able to A Popular Freshman Girl find the light switches or not · being bothered to turn them on. Dear Frosh Pop Poor baby. You're a fresh- man, hmmmm. Well you're really too young for crystal me~h. so I suggest you enjoy it wltile you can. Don't worry, it's a guarantee that by sophomore y~ar, your massive popularity Will end. · D.ear Norman, I'm a disillusioned freshman :male. When I got here, everyone told tne · to go to Skidmore for action. Well, 1 went, but nothing happened. Is it me? It is felt that this could even be countered by the students who turn on all the lights in retaliation. A few librians have found ways to tape the switches so that the pesty ticking will stop and the lights will not go off. . They have even . given per- mission to students to tape the lights and would probably not .say anything to anyone elSe that . wanted to do so for their own personal use. Although tape does the job well, the library staff feels that it is the students right to protest the· present situation, and demand a return to normal, especially on the second .floor where it is the worse. They say they have tried talking to the Disillusioned people that thought of the system but that nobody has listened so far. They feel that if students joined them in speaking out, the library could be usable soon. Dear Disillusioned, No, it's not you. The same thing happens to everyone at times. My advice: Learn how to lie well. That's half the game. · As one librarian put it,. \All of .. our lives would be much easier if we had permanent .lighting. It would' ,expedite research and study.\ Or if the situation is not corrected, on.e librarian suggested the class of 1987 be given coal miners hats instead of the traditional beanies. Start the Weekend. at THE ELECTRIC GRINCH COUNlRY CLUB - . . for a Friday afternoon beer blast \ ALL YOU CAN· DRINK PLUS LIVE ROCK & ROLL for on.ly $3.00 -Coming: Tuesd,ay, Sept. 28 ''BLOTTO'~ Electric Grinch C.C. 154 Erie Blvd •. 346-2280 1 To tho Nottwit1 asylwn'l is com schizoid! split pet few peop 8:30 clas former~ set up t these .j people c. campus way it is the aid station right dm iscampu allowed into 1 ro with 001 severalr and a material expand minutes~ and unfi However firmed lc signatur~ turns out thing YOl you saw blister. But e11 articie is idea of committ campus NOTWIT must hav abOut the test on M responsi material TH TH In 1794, have be1 decided need.ed Comedy ~ there w Schenecta 1975, Elipl saved thE dedly dec: J

~ampoo give to she less. only as do it .again be \ CONOOBDIIIINBIS, Sept.,m.b~r ~~ 1981 Page I : THE ARTS In Film- Pink Floyd - The ·Wall By ROBERTA RUBINsTEIN Arts Edltor. Tbe Wall, Emotion pouring .fr.oma;r>lastic screen in a smoke filled theatre. Like nothing ever before experienced .. It was not pleasant. No, it was not a fun- _filled evening of wild laugbter and giddy excitment. But, it is an evening no~ to be missed. Tbe Wall. It touches every fiber in your body and leaves you feeling as if the air has been sucked from within you. Your inner-most fea·rs are exaggerated and youf most personal thoughts made public. It is an experience o( altered perception with the help .of only Pink Floyd and dozens of surrealistic ima,ges. Not to be viewed by everybody, but at the same time not· to be missed by most. It was obscene ilnd beautiful. It was filled with love and filled. with hate. It was empty and intimate. It was brutal and gentle. Perhaps most important of all it was our in- sides turned out and exposed. Often confusing, it was more often ~ painfully clear. The sounds that have orily been playing in your mind until now, have finally been made. con- crete and visual. Like. liqUid cr~atures floating on a screen, the characters in The Wall flow into your consci'ouness and leave an undeniable \ im- .pression. The star, Pink, _ is probably· the most effective inlage of all. He is tender and he is frightening .. Most frightening of aU is just how real he ap- pears-in childhood, in adulthood, in his dreams and even inside us. These are only a'bstract thoughts trying tD give you an idea of an experience that cannot be described with ink on paper. Tbe Wall is probably one ·of. the better films around. If you are up for something a little bit different, why not catch the flick. To have a movie \claw its way through yourdis.guise,\is always a risk of some sort . . . But what the hell ... It's worthwhile. You'll hear some good· music, and it's a far cry from most of the S<IPPY crap the filmmakers of the 80's have been pu_tting out. The ·Return of Nottwitts J •• Curtain Up On Mountebanks I To those of you in the know, Nottwitts is the campus asylum's probati~n program. It is composed of confirmed schizoids, some paranoiacs 2 split personality types, and a few people who insist on. having 8:30 classes. The asylum nm by former acting-dean - - , has set up this program whereby these typically ostracized people can become p&:t of the campus community again. The way it is done is as follows: With the aid of the campus radio station (the entire program right down the straight jackets is campus nm! thes~people are allowed to cramp themselves into 1 room for umpteen hours with one do~en microphones, several miles of recordin~ tape and a couple of pages of material. They then attempt to . expand this 1 page into 30 minutes of intentionally serious and unfUnny audio material. However since they are con- f~ed loonies (2 psychiatrists signatures each) it invariably turns out as the most hilarious thing you've ever heard since you saw your sister pop her blister. , But enough about me-this article is being written With the idea of seducing you in to committing yourself to the campus. _ asylum (THE NOTWITTS) Therefore- you must have a little bit of history abOut the group. There will be a test on Monday and you will be responsible for all of the material covered. THE HISTORY OF THENOTTWITrS In 1794, 3 men who's names' have been lost to history, decided that Schenectady need.ed a Campus Radio Comedy Group. Unfortunately there was no campus in Schenectady. Fortunately, in 1975, Eliphiet (?) Nott canie and saved the day. He singlehan- dedly deCided that Schenectady needed a campus. There was no mention of a radio station or comedy group). The first NOTTWIT.T who'·s name has silrvived the ages was Fitzhugh L . (he took the 5th) a confirmed. and very good hashish addict, and an un- confirmed and very lousy song writer. Other then the song whose name is on the tip of your tongue and whose second verse is in your other pair -Of pants; \Fitzy\ wrote almost ex- clusively for the NOTTWIT'IS. In 1920 radio was invented and the NOTTWITTS breathed a collective sigh of relief, they had been shouting until then. In 1920 WRUC became the first radio station anYWhere in the wodd (check it out-it's m the record books), 2 days later NOTTWITTS was the 32nd campus comedy group to use the radio. Radio comedy was to prove to be a very popular mediwn. . Over the ne•t 60 year-s NOTTWITTS died and was reborn 17% times (Only in odd numbered years ending in 2). :me most current edition being mduced into the infamy and insomnia of radio broadcasting by the current hula-hoop craze an$1 the invention of Wednesday nights (by Mr. Wednes, check it out-<=it's in the record books). ~ey meet eyery Wednesday mght at 2100 hours (inbetween a·;·ao and 9:30 for you and me) at the radio station (WRUC, nott WFLY (yes, that was copied fr?m the ad)) and do strange things to other peQple's ears. If you want to be funny and get lots of free carpet scraps, don't come, we are very, very, poor, poor. If you have a frown on yo~ face and enjoy whistJ_ing while you work we'll gladly walk on the ground that you kiss to see you come up. As a final word of warning to those of you who are nott taking us seriuosly; there is a Moose Jaw, Sask. and itls as boring as hell, an~ w~ can send you there ?~c1t •-<WE DELIVER--- 374-_1888 ~~ ~ 464 State St. Schenectady, NY at any time. We got a thing workec;l out with prez jack. Ca~pus ••• Continued from page 2. ditionsto Carnegie, in order to establish a Student Union;. expansion of dormitory bed space in Fox and Davi~son dormitories through possible construction in the courtyards and basements; renovations and ekpansion of the AIUilllli Gym to include new poDl facilities, squash and handball courts, and improved weightrooms and locker facilities; and improvements to the Science and Engineering Buildings to include computer classrooms and laboratories, improved animal laboratories and greater utilization · of the presently unused basement facilities. According to Hausery there should be considerable progress on these proposed projects within the next five years. By GLENN KRUTOFF Mountebanks, tne student theatre group, met this past Monday, September 20 to elect new officers and to vote upon the proposed projects -for the fall term. }(:en Altman, outgoing moderator of the club, presided. Mountebanks is under the new, but capable leadership of Irene Fassler ('83), moderator; Tom Rice ('85), business manager; Diane Sadak ('85), secretary; and Ruth Ewing ('84), member-at-large. All will serve until Spring Term, ex- cepting Ewing who . will hold office only one term. Two projects were proposed and both were unanimously supported. The first is a reprisal of last winter's highly sue- ' cessful \Records. Night\ a one- night fun and fund-raising event. It will again be organized by Fassler. The Fall tenn production, REBEL, gained overwhelming support from the modest tur- nout. The play, by Union's own Daro Benninati, is the story of Emma -Goldman, the leading female anarchist of this cen- tur;-y. Benninati, theatre technician and Mountebank's advisor, will direct and design the production himself. He lfescribes the play as \Brechtian in style . . . with projections and musical un- derscoring throughout.\ The cast will number approximately 15, with only four female roles. The play is expected to go into rehearsal this weekend. As of this writing, the play is still being cast. The fall theatrical schedule loo~s to be a prodigious begmning of a successful season. WELCOMES BACK STUDENTS WITH 50c BE.ER and a LI'VE BAND all Poolside at Conal Square (in downtown Schenectady) FRIDAY, S·EPT. 24 5-7-pm Let's not forget the summer of '82 TGIF r I {

.. .. . / • I ~ l ' Page 6 OONOOllDlENSIS» S~ptember 13, 1988 · THE ARTS Top LP's For the Fall 1. Fleetwood Mac-Mirage-Warner Bros. 2. John Cougar-American Fool-Polygram 3. Robert Plant~Pictures at Eleven-Atlantic 4. The Steve Miller Sand;...Abracadabra-Capitol 5. Crosby, Stills, and Nash-Daylight Again-Atlantic 6. The Go-Go's-.Vacation-I.R.S. 7. Genesis-- Three Sides Live-Atlantic 8. Survivor-Eye of the Tiger-Epic 9. Joe Jackson-Night and Day-A&M 10. King Crimson-Beat-Warners Folk dancing International folkdancing will once again be offered every Friday at 8:30p.m. in the dance studio on the second floor of the Union College Arts Building, Schenectady, beginning Sep- tember 24. Coordinated by the Tri-City Folkdancers, the steps and styling of the dances of many nations will betaught d\ll\ing the first hour each week, with more advanced material and request dances enjoyed during the remainder of the evening. A non-profit effort, each dance session is open to people of all ages and levels of ex- perience. Admission is free to Union students, and a weekly one dollar per person donation is requested of all other pa;r~ ticipants. · Authentic dances of countries including Yugoslavia, Greece, Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary, Israel, Armenia~ _ Turkey, Poland, France, Germany; Russia and Sweden will be demonstrated and taught. · Further information may be obtained by contacting Esta Blood, 1218 Regent Street, Schenectady. ByVADIME. As a special undercover reviewer for Coneordleuls I often risk my fife and mY academic standing so that the truth may be known. Exactly one week ago I was reading the latest issue of NME when someone pushed a small' yellow envelope under my door. This c.ould o~y mean one thing: a fleld ass1gnment from. R.R. I opened the envelope and read the instructions . . . ven~ ture into the great unknown that lies beyond Union's gates and survey the local music scene. This message will self~estruct in two seconds . . . After being treated for burns and lacerations at EIUs Hospital I. took a cab to the newly decorated Hickock HDUse (funky but chic) to pick up my personal weapons~-notebook and the trusty 38~ent .special pen. It's a dirty job but someone's gotta do ,it. The following is my totally undefinitive and highly biased report. The A.D.'s-power pop and Contact your loca I Officer Selection Team Toll Free at 1-800~342-2408 The Few. The Proud. The Marines. The Few. The 'Proud. The Marines. new wave. Good to mediocre, del>(!ndirlg on the night. :Single available. , AKA, etc.-very smart new wave, not to be missed. Il1telligent dance music at its best. Single available. Anette- delightful and quirky pop. The band is not doing much at the moment, but look for them in the future. Five song E.P .. available. 8lotto-fun stuff. Album, E.P. and single available. The Dads-60's rock and roll, rockaj)illy. Mostly original, a couple of covers. Non-stop dance machine; especially in a small club. One ohny favorites. Look. for the upcoming single. Fear of Str8Jlgers.-;very good .new wav.e pop. The band · created quite a sensation dUl\ing the past swnmer with the. reiease of their album. Besides the albwn, the \Japan\ single is available. Judy J\D$-mutant offspring of T~lking.}Jeads and the Doors. Mostly ()riginal, .some covers, The band succeeds by taking the \p\' 011t of ''party.\ The Eddie Angel Band~­ remnants of · the Rocking Dakotas. Decent rockabilly, with the· emphasis on rock. Check out the available single from the ·aocldng Dakotas. Interior Farmers-good time music mix:ed with radical pQlitics. · - Lumpen Proles.-a cookie to anyone who ·knows what the name means. Good slam dancing potential. \Bullets for Andy\ is my fave. Uttle Sister and the Local Boys-very hot R&B, not bad on the dance floor. Sox-they · sute . do. Highly . inept non-originals. , -Emerald . City Band .... good hard rock. Single available. UXB- 1 'progressive'' rock, Genesis and Kansas covers. Lots of flash and zero su~ stance. · The Works- Top 40 hard rock, Loverboy, etc. Not too annoying until the third' set. Tbe Students-should . .go back to school and learn more songs. O.K. Stones coverst good drinking music. _ The Targets-spastic collage of non-originals. Pretty · good ortgmal stUff, though. Totally iqoffensive generic band, with absolutely no impact. ·The. Kidz-new wave, oldies. Good dance music. Two singles availcible~ - Tile Verge-highly enjoyable new wave. The available single received h~avy play at the Metro. I hope that you do not believe a word I ·said and .find out ·for yoQI.!self. A ~ain totten in~ dividual I admire once said \BliM ac~ptance is a sign of stupid fools who wait in line.\ Right. · Union's ·Coffeehouse Would you 1ike a .relaxed evening of music and refresh- ments? Try .coming to a :Union College Coffeehouse. This term~ coffeehouse staff .has lined up a variety of exciting, 'professional acts. The entertainers lined up for this coming trimester are Mark Rust on October 8, Pete Seers October, 15, the Broken. String Band, October 29, ana . Voss apd Osborn on November 12. Coffeehouse serves Inter~ national coffee; a wide variety of herbal teas, hot chocolate and donuts. Admission is one dollar. So if yo~ love music, or wollld just like arela:xing evening out, try Union College Coffeehouse. e Dutch Hollow ~, Pub INVITES YOU FOR SPECIAL enterta-inment on Tuesday night YEARBOOK DORM PICTURES __,_Tuesday, Sept. 28 -. You and your roomates can be in the 1983 Garnet! Express: yourselves! Be noticed!. Be cr~ativel Pictures taken at: North 4:00 Webster 4: 15 south 4:25 Davidson 4:35 Fox 4:45 West 4:S5 Richmond 5: OS Bremner 5: 15 .. l Ql of eJ law, Nati rece of c prac Tii repo woul pot, amo1 spen Neal invo mari Alt not r legal did s cQst-1 b1afa ThE their Ame1 marij gover of d< them. are 1 marij shoul( The there year AI are .J .F ( b~

- - to the for on ' good rock, sutr rock, back good with the eve ·for in~ said of line.\ e 1 ana. mber nter- ariety eand ollar. vould tout, ouse. OS .. ACROSS 1 Sesame 4 Lassoes !:) Work unit 12 Bother 13 Roman offi- cial 14 Sorrow 15 Choral com- posilioR 17 Ingredient 19 Biblical weed 21 Exist 22 Kind of cheese 25 Long, deep cut 29 51': Rom. 30 Hurry· 32 Eat ) 331mitate 35 Royals and Yankees 3.7 E:xtinct bird 38 Tidy .. , 40 Evap 0 ra'tes 42 Fish -:- foWl 43 Stage direc- tion· 45 Avenues 47 Negative 49Father 50 Ren.ovate 54 Eagle's nest 57 Sea eagle . 58 Ethical 60 Writing fluid ·61 Beverage 62 Antlered ani- mals 63Gompass pt. DOWN 4 Fall back· 5 Gl green 6 Baker's ' product 7 Singer Ffiz- gerald 8 Prophets 9 Cote c,llo\!eller 10 King Arthur,'s l<lnce · 11 Obtain i6 Every l8Pinochle term 20 Ancient char- iot 22 Woodwork- er's tool 23 Mature 24 Heavenly bodies 26 G~al 27.: The face: Colloq. 28 Listens to 31 Sends forth ' ...,. ... l.,. ·-~ ;·, •. ~ . ' ~ ., ... OONOORDIENSl$. Se'Dtember· 88, 1981 Page 7 CROSS . . WORD· PUZZLE FROM COLLEGE PRESS SE·RVICE 34 Lunch 36 Soap operas 39Gamper's need 41 Withered 44 House parts 46 Spooky 48 Jog· 50 Soak 5:1 Before 52 Natloor sheep 53 Time periOd 55 Hostelry 56 Piece out 59 Silver symbol Job· Market Declines ' CPS--- The job market for this year's college grads isn't good, and it may even be getting worse. That's· the prognosis offered by .placement and employment experts around the country, who add that ev.en the so-called ''hot majors\ .-...engineering and comp11ter sicence students..,.are getting significantly fewer job offers than their counterparts a year ago. \The job market is definitely softening for college grads;\ observes Jack Shingleton, the placement director at Mjchigan Staie University who ad- ministers a yearly survey of business 'c.ollege recruiting plans. \Disciplines such as social science,. arts and letters, and education are experiencing the greatest underemployment. Even the engineer<ing and computer science majors are not as well off as they were two or three years ago,'' he says. The College Placement Council reports job offers to · June grads declined forthe first time in six years in 1962. percent, and company officials - expect the situation to get worse before it gets better. 1 Ane Exxon, traditionally a major recuiter of engineers and other high-technology majors, is currently recruiting only at selected schools. \Our recruiting efforts have been curtailed dramatically,\ says an Exxon representative. ''With the economy. The way it is, things are very slow.\ \Employers are being a bit more cautious this year because of the economy,'' summarizes Linda Pengilly of the College Placement Council. \Where students might have received six or seven job offers last year, they're getting only . two or three this year. There's a significant drop in the overall nwnber of job offers being made, particularly in the high technology fields.\ But even in the light of the recruiting cutbacks and the lowest level of job offers in six years, many experts note that things could be much worse, and some even predict a tur- naround in the job market by the end of the year, of engineering openings, the · Engin,eerlng Manpower Commission reports that the unemployment rate among engineers is a meager 2 per- cent. \And even if they're not as hot as they used to be,'' adds Pengilly, \I think the high tech disciplines will remain in high · demand, at least for a while.\ ''Information systems management will be a hot item in the neJrt few years, as will S·O f twa r e man age men t , ptogramrqing and electrical and mechanical engineering,\ predicts Elva Bradley, placement director at Auburn University. \This country is switching from an industrial and manufacturing economy to more of a high tech and service oriented economy,\ observes Andrew Sherwood, president of Goodrich and Sherwood, a New York employment agency. \I think the (job 1 market is coming back, but in a different way,\ he explains. \The hot majors Of the future will be in areas such as human resources mana·gement, productivity improvement and time management -basically any area that has to do with creating a better, more effective long- term environment.\ 1 Sandy's cap 2Weddlng words 3Numbers game Answer on page 10 '',The job opport,Wlities are just not there,''- says WilJiam Heartwell Jr., executive vice- president of the Interstate Conference of Employment Securities Agencies. \Com- panjes have had to cut back ''In spite of the fact that there were fewer job offers,\ points out the Placement Council's Pengilly, \salaries have not really seemed to suffer.\ But that apparently excludes liberal arts majors. Laws Too T · h. ·?drastically. For the first time Ou. ·. g· . we are seeing college graduates . • working in jobs that are trainee · . positions.'' Engineering grads, for example, have enjoyed 8 to 14 percent.salary hikes. Computer science majors are drawing 6 percent higher salaries. Business grads can expect 8 to 9 percent increases over last year. \While salaries of engineers at least managed to keep up with the consumer price index,'' Michigan State's Shinglton says, \Liberal arts disciplines have been creepirig up at 3 to 5 percent (a year). In fact, what's happening with many of these disciplines is that they actually have less earning power now than they did ten years ago.\ Questioning the effectiveness of enforcing current marijuana laws, a committe-e of the National Academy of Sciences recently urged the elimination of criminal penalties for the practice. ' The committee said in its report· that easing .the. laws would not increase the , use of pot, but it would lessen the amoWit of money and time spent on an \ineffective\ law. Nearly 400,000 persons are involved each year in marijuana-related cases. Although the committee was not recorm:nending the outright legalization of the. weed, they did say fines would be a more C()st-effective means of curbing blatant use of the drug. The scientists pointed out in their r~port that over 55 million Amencaiis have used marijuana even though the gover.JUI\ent has spent millions of dollaz;s: tryjng to prevent them. They said present laws are not preventing use of marijuana, and therefore they should be modified. . The institute which sponsored the report, the result of a four year study, has rejeete~ the Homecoming '82 ~ All students interested in helping with ,Homecoming Weekend (October 15-17) are invited to attend the H;omecoming Meeting on Thursday, September 30. 4t00pm Banquet Room Carnegi.e Han .Please RSVP to Chrissie at 6168 by September 29. committee's conclusions. The institute's director disagrees with the conclusion that drug use would not in- crease with the easing of penalties. He says removing punishment for matijuaRa use would be taken as a sig.nal from t~e govemm,ent. that pc;lt was harmless. .Another spokesman for the institute says decriminalization now would further deteriorate the widespread u.Se of drugs in schools. There is some in- dication that current efforts have slowed the daily use of marijuana among teenagers. The president 9£ the science academy also disagrees With the committee's . report, charging the group with putting their own values into what was supposed to b~ an objective study. . The chairman of the com- mittee expressed surprise at the reportts reoepti.on,because the group did acknowledge the. · drug's. harmfulness. He also said the conclusions were not radical and were aimed more at the effectiveness . M current legislation rather than the pros and cons of drug use. Employers and placement experts blame the recession. Hundreds of top corporations have instituted hiring freezes, cut back on the ntlinber of college grads they employ, and cancelled their college recruitment programs. · Xerox cut the number of college graduates it hired by 20 . The high tech disciplines, followed by business majors, remain the degrees of choice when it comes to job openings and starting salaries. Even with a 9 peraent dr~p in the-number \The economic value of the college degree,\ he mourns, \is gradually eroding.'' OLD VIENNA NIGHT at GRAVEL GERTIE'S PE.ANUTS@ by'Charles M. Sch~lz Beauty Tips 5-6 .WELL, I'LL t>JEVER 13E BEAUTIFUL, MA'AM .•. THEREFORE; I'M TRYtNG A NEW APPROACH I THINK YOU NEED ME TO SIT UP THERE, A~D HELP VOU WRITE '{OUR COLUMN •.• Z-2. Ugly Tips

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, September ~~;. 1981 Founikd al UniQn Col/~e 1877 ----~~~-- ----~----~ C .. n·· - · IVIC . uty Unless you live in a closet, as some of our underclassmen dairn to, you are aware that this ls an election year. ·aenera.l elections wlll be .held on November 2nd and it is not too late to register or to receive an absentee ballot. Voter ·registration forms- are available from the Student Forum members stationed in the Carnegie Box Office. To receive an absentee ballot, you must write to your local Board of Elections, Without giving a lesson in ciVics, we want to impress upon' the College com-munity the importance of the vote. A significant number of students have found it more difficult, lf not impossible, ta attend college because of the loss of financial, aid. Toxic pollutants have invaded our back yards, without being checked. Policies are being forqtulated on both the Federal and state levels that affect our da,ily existence. Your vote makes you a part of the decision-making process. We could go on and on with a red, white., and blue flag waving editorial and even denounce those who do not vote as being Soviet sympathizers. But would that drive you to the polls? Probably not. The only thing that will get you to pull those levers come November will be concern. Do you really c;lare enough? ·Tight Fit Union has again been caught with her pants down and her dorms overcrowded. The time has come to rid ourselves of this embarrassing situation. Our newest students shoul.d not be placed . m living ~onditions where a crowbar is necessary to gain lntrance into rooms, A comfortable place to live is · not too much to ask for when paying a five-digit price. The College can pick one of several alternatives. We can reduce the number of applicants who are given the opportunity to matriculate. No doubt our (iscal wizards will shy away from such a path. We can simply ignore the problem and hope that enough .students fall out the first term so as to provide more space, This solution provides certain moral complications. The best alternative, and the one the College has embraced, calls for the construction of additional facilities. The Hickok and West CoUe.ge renovations are a step in the right direction. More is needed. We realize that college enrollment is predicted to drop in the near future .. But, if we cannot attract new students and kee-p them in Schenectady, the College will have no future. . So go for the subterranean alterations of the Fox· Davidson catacombs. At least we will be putting hard hats to work and doing our part for Reaganomics, Maybe we will even strike oil. LETTERS Pt~:rty Policy· Clarified- There seems, to - be same confusion regarding the _. College's part)' policy, -We would like to clarify the sltuation. The intention of the policy is to ensure the safety and security of our stUdents as well as maintain a planned approach to sponsoring events. Therefore, we require all organizations;. including Greeks · in privately owned houses, to notify the Safety andi Security Office, the. Dean c>f Students Office- and the Central Scheduling Office five ( 5) days in advance of the party. In the case where · several organizations hold parties on AGS Scholarships The AGC Foundation offers · undergraduate and graduate . Civil Engineering · majors financial need-based scholarships. If you are enrolled in the Civil Engineering · prQgram at Union_as an un- dergraduate, or planning to pursue your Master's next September, and are interested in applying for ad'ditional sources of funding, contact the: AGC Education and Research Foundation Director of Programs 1957 E St. N. W. Washington, D.C. 20006 (202)~93•2040 for applications and additional information. Application deadline is December 1. A ·limited number of applications are available in the Financial Aid Office. · ELLEN FlUSHBERG Financial Aid Office Academic · Offenses ByALANNELSON Associate Dean Undergraduate Studies Matters of \academic honesty\~such as plagiarism, cheating on exams, and abuse <if library privileges-are the same evening, the Seciliity some fac,Uities (e.g., Alumni • Office ma'Y determine_ ·that Grn) reqUires at least two additional staff is necessary. weeks advance notice. This Theorganizatio~s;will share.the __ po,li(!Y i$ Mt meant to dampen, cost 9f the addittonal staffm.g. th~ enthusiasm for parties. or to • The procedure to follow IS: ma ·k e u n tea so nab 1 e 1). Obtain and complete a bureaucratic cle-mand~; Facilities Use Form from the However, the safety and · Central Scheduling Office in the security of the campus com- : • Administration Building. munity is best ensured With · 2,) Obtain signatures. from the . proper .planning and ,guidelines. appropriate administrative Thank yo.uforyour cooperation. of.fi.ces as outlined in the Facilities Use Form. 3) Return the completed Facilities Use Form to Central Scheduling five .(5) days in advance -of the event. · For major events, the use of Micbael Andolina Assistant Dean of Students · Christopher Chadwick Admin. Sergeant, Security Skellar. Rats·- Dear Editor; really come as you are; carve As we embark upon the final initials in a table, wait in line for year:of our lives at Union, there the toilet as it: overflows, and bas been a noticeable change in stick. to theflQ!>r as beer is.being the student body. It seems that poured down your back? We there is yet another addition to reach out to t)lose· who the endangered species Jist,. that rememoer the Skellar as it once ofthe.SKELLARRAT. The once was; to those who appreciate a · lively home of the rat now ~ good time that can ·only be . echoes with the sounds of good experienced at the Skellar. • times gone by. The jukebox lies There is no substitute for the· · dusty and unused in a comer Rat! Tile Skellar musi live on.! where once tunes of Frank We lirge you aUto join us in our Sinatra, Diana Ross, and Don frantic efforts to , save the McClean encouraged dancing SKELLAR RAT! and singing on the tables. Are 'Sincei:ely, we to sit ;by and watch a vital .Fellow IJ.odents tradition of our Abna Mater Class of '83 fade away? Where else can yoli' . Fellows~ips Available - Applications are now available for National Science Foundation Fellowships for 1983-4. Eligibility is limited to · seniors who are planning to - pursue graduate work in science and-or engineering. Fellowships are based on .academic' ability and provide $6900 per year to recipients. (Awards are NOT made in - clinical, law, education, business, history or social work, · or for work leacllilg to medical, dental or public health degrees). · _ · Continued on page 9 follows: students. Recorded admonition, 1 Dismissed from the College, 1 student. student. Failure in paper, grade of D Suspension of library iJi course, 6 Students. - privileges, 1 student. Grade of F in course, 6 handled by my office for in- .--------------.....--------.------------' . vestigation and penalties. Where referral seems necessary (in aggravated or repeated circumstances, or in · case \of student appeal for a further hearing), we take the problem to the Subcouncil on Student Staruling. So far as is possible, offenses · of this kind are handled con- fidentially, and· the results of charges are not publicly reported, even with names omitted. Nevertheless, it does seem necessary and proper to make the campus cornmuruty aware that when breacbes of academic conduct are reported, they are not sifflply ignored. Warnings against misconduct · (as hi the · .pamphlet · on plagiarism, sqpplied to all · ·· entering students) Will become holloW-unless offenses are seen . to have serious consequences~ I offer, therefore, this very brief statistical report on the handling of academic offenses for the year 1981-82: - A total of 17 students were charged with academic dishonesty of some sort. There were 8 cases of plagiarism on , papers, . · sometimes involving more than one student. . Cheating on examinations was charged against ~students. One student was charged with · • unauthorized withdrawal of library books. - \ J?enaltie$ werC! issued as - Editors-in-chief Managing Editor , News Editors Features Editors Arts Editor CampO$ Page Editors Sports Editors Women'$ Sj)orts E.ditor - National News Editor Copy.Editor - Layout' Advisor Acting Photo Editors A.J. Brodsky, Dianne Pavacic Julianne Abelman _ Marcy Burstiner, DoUg Landon Judi Lee Cbervenak_, Nonnan Birnbach .... Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredoma, Charis Ricbards, Cindy J. Tenner Drew Hurley, ~ck Sapir Gina Persico Donna Getson .D.C.Owens Peter Mohr Sarah Couch, Janet Guiliailo, Tom Megerian CartooniSt • David Neiblum Staff · Paul Choquette, Scott ColfuuJ, :KathY Duffy, Lou George, David Fitzgerald, Cathy GUfor.d,:,Janice Glidden, Mike Hunt, S'l!e Kone, Glenn ~utoff,·Ttacy la~ca, Emily Loose, Pat McG~oyn, Michelle Novelle, Joan O'Connor, Patti SackS·, Mike Sheridan, BobVIUlVoris, Sue Wayne, Sherry \Veitzen, Scott WykOff CONCOB).)IENSJS is publishe4 .every ThurSday by the student bOdy of Union College, carnegie Hall, .ScJlenectady, New York · 12308; PUblications Office: Susquehanna PubllcaUons, Inc., Box 388,. Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in _the ' SchenectadY Post Office as third class matter~ S~bsc~ption · rate: 3$ cenU, per copy; $12 pet year, delivered anywhere_ tit the United States. - .. CONCORDIENSIS subscri~s to the _College Pre~ Service ·(CPS), and. utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB), ,.,.,. -- Ap Nove mfor: Finw · acad1 ·To th Cal all of the Speci' Rubel Zanta Rap hi Steve Rich Greg Franl Lopez the C hope 9:00 a but siJ 1 ore -------· CA/1

•. ;-:- . '. n l, '· I, h 1 OONOORD1BNS18~ September .a .. 199B Page 9 . . \ - COMMENTARIES Application closing date is. November 24, 1982. Further information is available in the Finan¢iE11 Aid Office. and your . academic departments. · · ELLENFRISHBERG •. FbJancialAld Office . Thanks From Cabaret To .the Editor By JACK ANDERSON · ancl JOE SPEAR WASHINGTON-President Reagan's economists ar,-e desperately looking for ways to i reduce tbe massive federal Cabaret would like to. thank · deficit. Without some lal'ge all of those who participated in · <:uts, say tbe e~erts, there are the Orientation Cabaret. hard titnes ahead. Special <thanks go to: .Eric But the economists can·-•t find Ruben, Joel )3eckerman,. Mike · · a painless way to cut the federal Zanta and Steve Koebel; Panni . overhead .significantly. So Raphael, Flic, Susan Bamel, . • they're. talking about a painfUl Steve Glazer, Marcy Wilder, · solution:. Tbey believe a drastic Rich Mintz, Tom Megerian, - cut in Social Security may be Greg Hedman, Jim Carroll, · neces$iry. Franklin Schnei-de.t, Lynda This kind .of talk has been LQpez, Anne Kornfeld and all . restricted to the backrooms. the Orientation Advisors. We But We've. seen a confidential hope to see you Thursdays at report of Ute Internatronal 9:00 an~ 11:00 p.m. Monetary Fund which touches on these discussions. Sincerely, The IMF is a Vnited Nations Ravlt A Vni and Susan B_amel · institution 'whicn lends money to member nations who are in dire .___..__ ........ _.,.._ ____ ,.J financhll straits. Its repOrts. on Concerned citizens, budding Buckleys, neophyte Novaks, and aspiring Andersons should contact D.C. Owens at 6155. - Intelligent commentaries are welcomed by Concordiensis. the U.S. economy are highly ftnportant because they are untainted by domestic political concerns and are therefore objective. · · · The ex-perts ,at the IMF foresee tight money and high interest rates down the road. This is the only way, they say, to ·beat inflation. States · their confidential report: \The staff is of the view that_ pursuit of the policies needed to bring down inflation will mean a realtively sluggish ecoqomy for .some time · to corrie.'\' The reduction of high budget deficits, the report .adds, \is undoubtedly the single most important task.\ Here's what IMF says about slashing Social Security benefits. \It was estimated that a fiscal effort of $20 billion to $40 billion would be necessary to deal with the immediate problems of the system.;, It's clear from the context that the economists were referring to a cut. One section of the report describes the preliminary work being done on the 1984 budget. From this, we can tell you that Savemoney m~ M .. ..-ll. k~···. when you have \:V\Jt ~,tw acot: · \:VltntS delivered on-the day of publication. Please enter my subscription for the New York Times as checked: (Papers will be delivered to your room or office. Subscriti.on rates are up· to 50 Percent below the .regular newsstand price, that's only 20c per copy.) Delivery for the fall term will start on Wednesday, September 29th, 1982. ( )Weekdays CMbn.-Fri.l fa-culty only· . ( ) Weekdays (Mon.-FSat.) ( ) Weekdays & Sun. ( ) Sundays only ()FALL TERM $9.00 10.80 24.30 13.50 ()FULL YEAR $27.80 33.20 73.70 40.50 (includes Winter Term) ----~-------------~-----~-~----~~--~-~-----~--~--~----------- NAME-----..--:\\\--....----------------...:- PHONE---~---.....,.._-- CAM.PUS ADDREESS __ ......._ ___________________ ._____CLASS YEAR __________ _ Please make check payable to: Joseph Beckerma.n . Unio.n College Box 950 . Sche~ectady, N.Y. 12308 Deposit in Inter-Campus Mailbox. ' ' . - . -- -- . ···- . From September 29, 1939 Considers Its Causes And Path to Conflict Since Last World War Continuing a three day series of chapel add'ressea on \Certain Back-. grounds of the Present European War,\ Dr. Walter c. Langsam, pro- fessor of history, discussed the rise to power of the National Socialists In Germany during Wednesday's assembly period and explained tbe position of central Europe In re· cent International developments yesterday. Explaining the Nazi rise In Ger- many, · Dr. Langsam, author of \The World Sjnce _ 1914,\ pointed to the unfriendly acte and attitudes of France, steady In- crease of arl:l'lamenta .by Germany's neighbors, and the dlsablllty and weakness of the republican govern- ment l.n· Germany as facts which :anked In the hearts ot the Ger- man patriots, particularly the youth and war veterans. \The World War and the peace settle- ment ot 1919 obviously left Ger- many disillusioned and crushed, both spiritually and materially,\ Dr. Langsam said. Goal waa \Third Belch\ \Many Germans, moreover, de· ,clared thl!mselves disgusted with the functioning of the democratic parliamentary system, which, in truth, had been forced upon the Reich by the Allies. . . . Psycho- logical factors, too, played an Im- portant part in the eventual over- turn. \According to their originlll pro- nouncements, the l!ltlmate goal of the Hltlerltes was a. 'Third Reich,' ·a Greater· Germany wherein should .. be united In one .so-called national comradeship all those of 'Getman . blood without reference to confea- - slon,' Including the Germans In Austria, Czechoslovakia, Poland, the NetherlaJtda, and Alsace. Jews, however, were regarded as having allen blood. The achievement ot this program 'for the ages' en- visaged the abrogation of the treaties of Versailles and St. Ger- main,\ among many other alms, Dr. Langsam continued. \A party organization, similar to that of the Bolsheviks, was de- veloped and the booked cross, bet- ter known by its Sanskrit equiva- lent of swastika, became the Nazi emblem. • The speaker then traced the im- mediate rise of Hitler from Jan- uary 30, 1933 when he was ap- pointed chancellor on March 5 of the same year when 39,00Ml00 German citizens cast their ballots in a new election called by Der Fuehrer. WRUC -90.9 The Place for News on Union Campus 1:15 pm 6: 15 pm 12: 15 am 7 DAYS A WEEK Letters to the editor must be received by CONCORDIENSIS by Tuesday, 7:00 p.m. in order to receive consideration.

Page 10 ' . . ~ ·~ .;, <~ • OONOORDIENSI8, September. 2$, .1.98B ·- \The College E.xperience'' Campus Digest News Service · Boy, there~s nothing else like it in the world! You're finally out of the house, on your c.wn, ready for anything and everything. You've got places to go, people to see, music to hear- -you really do have a lotta livfu' to do. Man, you're in college now! senior slwnp. If you don't cut it now, you won '.t be around to test the upperclass ,theories of terminal matriculation. The Fall Lineup But what makes your first vear at school memorable or disastrous? What guarantee do you have that higher educ~tion and he pursuit thereof is what it's cracked up to be? And is it a sin to have fun while you're educating yollrself? The an- swers to these and other timely queries may . soon reveal themselves .... either through experience or the sage advice of those who have preceded you in the halls of academe. First of all, don't let your new- found freedom go to your head or other parts of your body). Sure, nobody's gonna be at the bottom of the staifs yelli11g about missing breakfast and-or the school bus. You sleep late at college, you go hungry. And you miss a class that somebody's hard-earned money paid for. The logic is simple: you are now directly responsible for your actions. Don't let that scare you ·- responsibility is a lot of fun, and satisfying, too. This first semester is the ·tough one. Don't let anyOOdy fool you with talk of sophomoritis, junior jitters or Plan right now on spending time with your books. Scout out likely study areas. The dual advantage. here is gaining the info you need for the classes you're taking and meeting people who may be able to discuss more than the Santa Fe look in clothes. . While you're scouting around, take note of the fasHoo.d places within walking distance-even if you have a car. Remember, for the price of a tank of gas you ,could feed yourself and your roomie for a number ·Of days. And don't worry too much about. nutritional needs ... as long as you don't entirely subsist on deep-fried foods and you get your daily quota from tbe four food groups, the fast-food places can provide quite a nice service. By the way, cold pizza makes an excellent breakfast lfor the mornings after the night before). Peer pressure sometimes gets in the way of those simple choices, however, and along with everything else you have to get used to at college is the realization that your peers follow you through history. And you thought yo1,1left that behind iri high school! The word decision keeps popping up. You have to decide what classes to take, where to live, what to wear, who to ask or accept for a date., when to stu«ty, and wt)y yoQ're in school in the first place. Yoymay be tempted to envy your older brothers and sisters who saw school as a clear~ut WaY to avoid the draft or attract a spouse. You. may see them as not having the same questions or concerns, or doubts, about the usefulness of continued education. It may not seem apparent now, but What college has· to offer can't be defined by cours~ loads, term papers and grades. That soundS old hat, but when we get right down to it you'll be learning a helluva lot in late- night discussions over cold beer and hot pizza that you won't be tested on until the \real world\ comes knock-knock·knocking on your back door 'long about graduation day. . Hey, hut that's years away. Well, four at least. Until then, don't let yourself faH into a freshman Toutine of doing the same things at the same time with the same people all the time, Get to know your campus, and your town. Try to walk through every building once - you never know what you'll come across. If yoQ. find out what's going on around you the chances are the damp spot behind your ears will dry quickly and by the . end .of Christmas vacation you'll be talking about going baclt home to school. Campus Digest News service Is it pressure from the Moral Majority? Or just a switch in the fickle preferences ~f the television-watching audience.? Whatever the reas·on, this year's fall television schedule is certainly a departure from last year's. This year's lineup calls for action adventure, not sex. The giggling :blondes of seasons past will not be bound!M around the tube this fall. Instead, the new characters will consist .mostly ·Of Tom Selleck look-alikes in shows such as ''Matt Houston,\ \Gavilan and \Tales of the Gold Monkey.\ Priv:ate eyes are back in demand on the video rating scale. Night.time soap operas are on the wane, with even the front-runner ''Dallas•·• lacking the audience it used to have. \Dallas\ and \Dynasty'' · rt:tqrn, as tile two most popular f PERSONALS . and ClASSIFlEDS ADS are FREEU Pick up a format the Carnegie Bo~ 0ffice Deadline is 7 p.m. each Tuesday! FREE PIZZA! FREE DRINKS!* ' FREE'· BtOTIO CONCERT· TICKETS! .... and much morel! WRUC RADIO Js· giving away more than $700 in prizes in the next 6 weeks! This week WRUC has 21 pairs of free tickets to give away for the Blotto Concert.,at the Electric Grinch. Also, starting next week we \ ' will give away ,~ozen$: ·.of . ~ther prizes ranging from free breakfasts • ' - < to free hairstyling., to 'tree Kam~kazies. * All you have to do to win is listen to WRUC for details. WRUC: your alternative radio station· -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Be sure to catch the newest of the New Wave on Wavebreoker - Sunday ni9.hts at 1,0 pm * All alcohol prizes must be redeemed by someone of legaf drinking age. Proper 1.0. required by law. evening soaps, along with \Falcon Crest.\ Situation comedies will have a couple of newcomers (but few last the season), Several old favorites will be returning, includiqg Sally Struthers in. her own ''Gloria\ sJtow,.as well as Bob Newhart, Meredith Baxter- Birney, and Patty Duke Astin in their own comedies. \M.A.S.H .. '' ret~ns ·toe 1ts final year; with the la~t episode being the most highly sought- after television c6:rnmeraial time in history. \Taxi another popular comedy, returns .but on a different network in what ' could be NBC's best move in years. Although CBS is expected to lead the ratings race, NBC should have no trouble leading the Thursday night ratings war every week with a lineup that includes ' 1 Fame,\ \Cheers (a new and promising . sitcom}, \Taxi'' and \Hill Street Blues.\ Puzzle Answer . , - - - Fl UN or Wil Cal T ,Gr( ::NY 'Ha~ Sat exp :J70. R Uni 657~ R Bos Mor 28U San' R: Sca1 Sun. Ma1 Rj fton Tue Ri leav Sun. rfdE Prej wes1 at 3'l 94 •. Ri Gen~ Dav' Ri UVl\ Call Will 1. ~~ ~ l;fo• t{t 0 • ~ • 0 ~ u • * * ~ ~ :;;; '-1· ~ '\i::r . .. ~- ..... 0

with have few old ih her as in pisode Other but on what in to NBC a ding war that \ (a· . ~om}, ues.\ ··RIDES Ride needed to BOston or UNH leaving Thur or Fri. 9-23 or 9-24. Returning. Sun., 9-26. Will happily share expenses. Call Kate at 370-6864. . Three people need ride to ,Greenwich, Conn. or Harrison, NY or anywhere on the New 'Haven. line nearb-y enroute. Saturday. the 25th. ·Will share expenses. Call Julie or Janet at ~7~71. . Ride needed from Boston U to Union Sunday, 26th-Leslie 37().. 6573. Will. share .expenses. Ride desperately needed from Boston back to Union either late Monday the 27th or Tuesday the 28th. Will share expenses. Sandy, 379-65.72. Ride to Dan];lury, Conn. or Scarsdale; NY on Fri., 9-24 or Sun., .. 9:..26. Will' share expenses- Maria 37();.6572. . Ride needed back to Union from Long Island late Mon. or Tile. 9-27 or 28. Tom 393-\7222. Ride. offered to Philadelphia- leave Fri. 9-24. afternoon-return Sun. 26 -before dark. 1 need two r(ders--only $12 each way. Prefer to drop and pick up in western suburbs~ Contact Keith at a70-6549 or drop a note in Box 94. - Ride needed to ROchest.er or Geneseo any weekeml. €ontact Dave at 370-6560. Ride needed to Rochester on 9-24. CaU Anne at 372·9158. Will share expenses. Ride needed for two people to Long Island on g;.24 or 25. Call Shawne or Mary at 393--8239. Ride neededto Long Island on 9-24. Will share expenses. Dan at 6451. Ride . needed to Rockland County-NYC .. North.Jersey on 9- 24 or 25. Call Larry at 6584. Wanted: Ride to NYC on Oct. 12, 1982 for Who concert.· Will gl~dJy share e:xpenses. Call Rl.Ch,. 449-1228. FOR SALE Motorcycle for sale--'78 Honda_, 200 cc.. New condition, 1000 miles. Asking $980. 393- 8782. Human skeleton for sale (for medical studies). $350 (reg. $550). Al&) microscope slide projector and patbolQgy slides. 355-5330. . . 1970 Chevelle 2-door brown hardtop, Top condition. For details- call Jack at 346-0407 or 785-0558. Peavey Classic Guitar amp: 2 12\ speakers, 50 watts, built in ,phase shifter, 2 channels. $200 firm. 587-9153. CLUB NEWS Anyone interested in Ride needed any weekend to becoming involved with the UVM in. Burlington, Vermont. Re<;ord Hop must attend the Call 382-8962 and ask for Tom; meeting this Wednesday in the WUI definitely share expenses. WRUC Loungeat7:00.Thisis a 4- \J ~ o • {;{~ •• ~ ; ~ • ~u o J:.i\ :9...~a.: ..p. . . 2--f~' · · _.......~ ·~··~ ·~l\'uo n ~ 0 )..( n -v-. .. _ .IV o ~-\\':' ~ ' ~ . ~·- ~t; . _ 1 ....rte - Canal Square ~~ ~ g4'a\\ . (by the. pool) ~ ~ • 0 ~ v • Women's Sportswear Sweats I • .. * l1a • ~ Sweaters ~ Skyr T~Necks . . !;. 0 ~ _ Sasson Jeans. ~ it~ 10% OFF with Union ID ~ '\i~ • . ·~ \\' . . ·\' . c .J'.?. . 0 ..... o o · · t-t :\'J.-l - M 'i} .~ ~ « 0 • :?t-tl ~ .t}~ • c «(I . ..t::({t • {'! 0 ....,. Union Coflege Film Committee and Union College Entertainment Committee pr:esenfs Wed., Sept. 29- 7, 9, 11 p.m. SS 016, Admission $1.00 Page lt. CLASSIFIEDS mandatory meeting and anyone .unable to attent must contact Larry Shapiro~ at 37().;6590 by Wedrlesday. The (Wcord Hop is the Union College mobile music service which plays at many of the Greek, do~, and club functions throughout the year and is always at Girling Center for Orientation. People may become involved in disc jockeying, record buying or equipment maintenance. If you are into any type of new music (rock, new wave, reggae, disco) this is the group , to become involved with. The Chess Club meets every Wednesday at 8:00 in Con- .ference Itoom A (8econd Floor Carnegie). Players of all levels .are encouraged to come down and: play. Even to chess players, mating can be -fun! GREEK NEWS Delta Upsilon will hol~its $9th annual \Fall Party\ (Party until you fall), Saturday, October 2nd at 10 p.m. MISCELLANEOUS PERSONALS ARE FREE! Anyone interested in placing a person~l in the Concordlensls can do so by picking up a per- sonal form from the Box Office in Carnegie Hall. All personals must be typed and received no later than 7 p.m. each Tuesday. The office is located on foilrth floor· in Carnegie l:fall.· Anyone· interested in placing a classified ad in the Con,. eordleDSls c~ do so. by typing the ad and bringing it . to the newsrootp. (4th floor -carnegie) no lat~ than 'l p.m. each Tuesday. There is M cba.rge for classified ·ads . Senior Bio students-an op- portunity for one or two senior biology students to participate in animal research in critical care medicine. This Biology 190 will consist of three consecutive terms of research here at Union and. Ellis Hospital under the direction . of Dr. Alan Fein, Chief, Critical Care Medicine. See Prof. Butterstein im- mediately for details. TH·£. WORLD IS Science and Engineering sophomores-are you interested in a year of studies in Swit- zerland? Now is the time to ~pply. If you are Dean's Ust and have enough German or if you are willing to take Gennan for the winter and ·spring terms and th~n to take an intensive Goethe Institute course in Germany, you are eligible to apply for the one nominated Union student for 1983-84 year at the '!MJT\ of Euroge~ This honor is recorded on your file at Union College. . . Please inqUire of Prof. Martin- in· Chemistry at the Science and Engineering Center soon! The Engineering Education Committee (Committee 24) of the American Railway Engineering Association is sponsoring .a Student Paper Competition during the 1982-83 academic ye_ar, and is inviting college students to participate. . Additional information may be obtained from Mr. Charles Chambers, Railco Multi Con- struction, Inc., 13939 S.W. Edy Road, Sherwood, Oregon 97140 (Phone: 503-625-5587); or Mr. Larry Ehterton, Norlolk and Western Railway Co., Railway Exchange Building, St. Louis, Missouri 63101 (phone: 314-425- 8962). Need a room? Call Psi U at 382-9330 and ask for Jeff. FREE FOOD! Work as a waiter at A D Phi. Call Scott or Steve Ueb at 382-9688 or stop by the house. Attention Freshinen Sailors! .Fresh~1;1n ground breaking regatta .Sept. 25. and 26. Call Melissa at 34&..7192. Female vocalist lookiJlg for a band needed for Cabarets $1d camptis functions. Call Jodi at 370-6869~ . Bloodmobile today in Strauss Lounge. There are a few openings for the winter 1983 term abroad in Bogota, Colombia. This program is geared to those with only a rudimentary knowledge of Spanish as well as those who have ·a strong background in Spanish. The three courses UR CAMPUS . ·· .. ~ AROUND THE WORLD: sails Spring 1983 (January 26-May 6) Port Evergll!.~es, Florida • Cadiz, Spain Piraeus, Greece • Alexandril!., Egypt - offered are sociology 13~, Biology 138 and Spanish 11 or 135~ Anyone interested in this · program should contact the Terms Abroad office im- mediately. Koch Campaign seeks help! Anyone interested can contact Charles W. Ryan, Sr., Albany Koch for Governor Coordinator, through the Albany Koch for Governor Headquarters, 111 State Street, Albany. 434-4703. Bio Backup opens this Tuesday, Sept. 28. It will be held every Tues. and Thurs.-7-9 p.m. in the Ryan Room.( across from the Bio Dept. office}. Need a home? Come and' live at Alpha Delta Phi. Be an ina dependent. Call 382-9688 or visit ·the house. Concert Band: First rehearsal on Thursday at 6:15 in Memorial Chapel. Bring in- struments. PERSONALS Dr. J- Hurry home to where you should be. I love you. -XO Roberta, JUlie & Donna: I'm glad I'm with you too - you are all terrific! ! Maria: Glad to help you out filling this space :Up. You look really nice, enough to make great looking guys do double takes. Bye!! To my friend W. F. Peterson- Efi there! (and you thought I wQuld forget! ) contagiously yours, H. K. Regina B - Thanks for a great swruner. Have a .fantastic time in England! Love, J. KS- We may be off campus, but people notice the best. Here's to another top year. - G.M. AI- You're so BIG! Angel TO MY L.O.M.L. T., I see a smooth running SAAB, a loving brunette, and lots of homemade pasta in your weekend! - A ''LITTLE GINIE'' Someone's following me. Can't talk- meet me- 2nd floor Carnegie Wed., 9 p.m. It's imp- Char and Sue - (otherwise known as Assholes No. 1 & No. 2) -.My phone works, you know. I've tried calling you but to no avail. You SENIORS are just SOOOO popular!! Let's make it the third amazing year in a row. Love, Bo Bar - How's the herpes? H. K. Regina - Talk to your shoulder lately? My dearest S. Fran, I love you and miss you. -Love, Gene LEE - Polly from Appledore sends her love but she's NOT going to do it all NIGHT! ! Love 1~ . I . .. • Haifa, Israel • Bombay, India • Colombo, Sri Lanka • Manila, Philippines • Hong Kong •Keelung, Taiwan • Kobe, Yokahama Japan ~nnored by the Unlv<!raiiy of PlttaburgJi, Seme11(er at Sea (>ffera siuljenta a superior ll semester academic pr._ogram and supporting field experiences. This Qne sem!'ster experience •• available to quaUfled students from all accredited colleges nnd univer- sities. More than 60 voyage related uliiverlilty courses. I\ acuity drawn from- the University of PJttoburgh a11d other leadlng·universltlea, a11gmented by visiting area expertli. - Optlonai lours, l11cludlng speclat tours Into -the People's \Republic of Chin@, available. Semester at Sea admits students without .regard to color race or creed The s s .Universe- Is fully alr-com!ltloned, 18,000 Ions, registered in Liberia and b 11 11t ··, 8 ' America. Dav~ · - Do you think we brought the Bug back with us . from Montreal or the backroads of Westport?? For a free colo.r brochure, write: Semester at Sea, UCIS, Unlveralt:5- of Plttsbur h Forbes ~~~T~ri~~i;~:~tsburgh, PA 15260, or call toll free {800) _854-0195 :(In caufo.:..ia call Submit Your Classifieds and Personals by 7:00 pm Tuesday! Dave Fox- Our Hero!!! 1046 ,Park Ave. Mark Valentine! ! I bought you a Hartz Glow in the Dark flea collar so you are protected on pizza deliveries. . Trace - There will be a huge bug hanging out in our living room at one in t~e morning. Could you please come over and kill it for me: ..... Love, Foxy

Page 12 OONOOBDIEH~lB~ Bep~ember U., 1981 CLASSIFIEDS PERSONALS cont. Dave - There really was a bug. JRP- ILY bery, bery much. Weally I do, I do. Yoa h .. ve made my days brighter. ... BH To the OB's e>f UC - (Kay, Mav~ c-, Lis, Ev). Here's to another year of happy DBdom, we've got allour members back this year!!!- President of DB's of UC To the Women of Delta Delta Delta ..... Get psyched for a great term. I hope that we 'Can make this year even better than last year (but that's i.Jnpossible). Delta love, 10-(J Canal Square - Downtown Schenectady- behind Carl's To my favorite mouskateers, Sharon and Elissa,. from a Sick Puppy Tri~Delta: The house keeps getting better and better and so do all the people in it. Here's to another great year. - Delta Love. Canal Square? - 50 cent Miller Beer?- 5-7 p.m., Friday, Sept. 24 Happy 19th BD-!! I can still remember yo11r 17th - tooth· paste and an. ~ve and kisses, Cow Why Canal Squtte? - There's a canal that l'WlS behind State St. Hyla- Happy B.D. on Y.K.- Hope you- have many rw~re fun ones. With love (Delta and otherwise) 1.,_., a feHow C.P. SDT Sisters,- Welcome back! We're off to a great year. Petudalumps - Watch how thos'e stars are shining now! - W.B. To Sgt. Stoll of SOT - Here's to keeping the furniture in the f~y~ l.A>ve, the Sig Delt Detectives Will Judy live? Be at RUC Wed. 9 p;m. and find out? - Love, Sammy Poo ... SDT - Get psyched! ! Great sisters, great house, great year.!!! Karen, my dear, the room Is a mess-I'm sick of it too, l must confess-Peeled walls will soon be past- but the fun and memories will always last- Sisters we will always be- Friends forever-Thanks, SOT! Casty, Hey kid how ya doin'? Are you up for a Nott nitl? - Hwnbaba,. Enkidu Toto .... One small pizza, extra ladders and storm windows. Well, what I really meant was .. . - Ed Plattsburg Tony C. ++ Thanks for a g- · weekend although M.M. should have been kidnapped. Here's to many more great memories. A confused . . . . - Friend, C. Ladies: Ramada Inn and basketball coaches don't mix, but we sure do. Way to start the year off. Magical, musical tour: I'll be listening Friday afternoon, WRUC Happy belated birthday, Boojie - Boy! Hope things are okay in the shithouse. Veep D-Andy: Is the plastic- beer-cup decor for the exterior to your liking? - Slobs, Inc. I don't know about yo11 guys, but I'm starting to look like Jane Fonda. How many more of these sessions can we last through? Big Bad Bill: Does that Cockney accent run in your family? - Dave's friend To the Schoharie Ki,d: Look out for wing-wang ghosts. SMDJ ... 100 iS on the way. Delta Gamma all the way. Jim E.: Thia ls for you. ijope you get it. Hi Randi and Lisa! ! You guys come over and visit- together. Love you lots. Paul and Rob: Weare eagerly awaiting your ne,a nocturnal v.isit. LE:t's go, already .... Your pals, Josephine and roomie . Mezzie Bebe- You can't caU me a drug addict any longer. i can tease YOU now! By the way, I have your dissecting kit ..... Just kiddtng. Here's to a great year at Union (another one). - Avec ·amour, Cincie be be l,ynnie and Ness: Here's to the Diuretic Women. Pass .out much? Be carefJl}-you coUld end up some place you don't want to be. - Love, Me To our brothers south of Charlottesville: Y'all ever f- a goat? Ditto for pigs. - All Ears Ruth E.- I just love to cook with you.- The Blueberries for Ml Committee Bob Marley - Great lunch conversations about cockroach abortions and all. Quite en- joyable. ++Admissions++ Thank you - the Gentlemen of Union CoUege Sean -- Thanks for tbe thought. You've always been a .sweetie. I'm glad we're going through it together. - Love, another \What if .... \ , Freshman Women.: GO GREEK!!! I! Romeo-It's really nice to see you again. To another _tenn of jam kicldng.. .. I love you, - One ... I still love you '-: Three PYROTECHNICS:· Wanna blow up the most modem building on campus? Meeting · Wed. 9 p.m. ?nd fl()()r of Car- negie { opp. game room) -Sand of NottWitts who are Ba,d at acronyms Juliet - · Death to Quisp! - QUAKE LIVES ON IN OUR HEARTS FOREV:ER!l! - Sigh: Drinks and bongs? RehHhash\ old times? How about it? (Sorry Charlie, only the best tuna getto be sighkist) - - Love, Pookie Maria - Have a great bir- thdllY- SOT / Union Col.lege Film Committee .presents WIN:NE·R . ACADEMY ·BEST PiCtURE BI:ST DIRECTOII !lEST liTOIIY AND!lCRfiENI'LA'!' (C)r>gtnal) OUT FILM EDI.TING • BEST ARTPIAECTION 8ESTIICOIIINO (Adaptattbn) • BI:STCOS11l¥E!JEBIGN PAIJl · ROBERT NIWIIAN RfDfORD ROBfRT8HAW IN A BILL/PHILLIPS PROOUCJ:ION OF A GEORGE RQ( HILL FilM · lllf&11NG , . . A AICIWiO O.ZANUO</D.tMDBROWN PR£SiiNTA110N Fri., Sat., Sun., Sept. 24-26,7:30& 10 p.m. SS016. $1.00- Tickets available at Carnegie If there's one thing undergrad . business students have always needed, this is it: an affordable, business-oriented calculator. The Student Business Analyst: Its built-in business formulas let you perform complicated finance, accounting and statistical. functions~ the ones that usually require a lot of time and a stack of reference books, like present and future value calculations, amortiza· tions and balloon payments. It all means you spend less time calculating, and more time learning. One keystroke take~ the place of many. The calculator is just part I of the package~ Y(m also get a book that follows most business courses: the Business. Analyst Guidebook. Business profe~rs helped us write it, to help you get the most out of calculator and classroom. A powerful combination. This calculator thinks .business. TheTI Student_ BusitiessAnalysi -Think business. ~o W~th the Student ' Business Analyst. TEXAS INSTRUMENTS ®1962 Texal iruaumeoll - .. - E ') sea the ath aF SOCI and llt par A Ath rec~ athl tota thai are and and Ove Unic COS( diti( Mar tenn Sak1 Jullt for prov As majc with four· seas' Hod Sh

- . ' OONOOBD11i1NSIB, September ea, 1981 p 18 w Eight Years a_nd Growing IJv GINA :PERSICO Women's Sports Editor This 1982-83 F.all sports seas()n marks the eighth year of the women's intercollegiate athletic program. at Union. With a Fall sparts schedUle of tennis, · socc~r, field hOckey, volleyball, and cross-country, Union boasts 11 teams on which woinen can participate. According to Director of Athletics Dick Sakala, the most recent additions to women's athletics which brought the total for women's sports higher than that of the men's sports, . are Varsity soccer this year, and cross-country, indoor track, and outdoor track last year. Over the past several years, Union has hired four fuJ.ltime coaches. Last year, new ad- ditions included soccer coach Mary Gillespie, and part time tennis coach Leslie Arakelian. Sakala feels the increase in Julltime coaches \speaks_ weU for a college committed to providing broad programs.\ As for achievements, the majority of teams are familiar with them. Three out of the past four- years have been winning seasons for the Varsity Field Hockey team. :In 1979, the team Will Judy live? was .number one in New York state for division III schools. ' Since Lynn Barta has been coaching v:olleyball, Sakala says the team has had \about a 600 percent 'Winning streak.'' It has won sever::al tournaments, including the Northeastern .Invitiational. This season will be the second one with Arakelian coaching the tennis. team. She is a top- ranked 'professional player in the area. Her first year as coach led Union's team to a winning season. The first year of women'S cross-country ended with an $astern Regionals victory and a ranking of sixth in the nation for Division III. Sakala is optimistic but realistic in his view of this . year's soccer team. The in- terest is definitely there with oyer 35 wo~en turning up at the ftrst practtce. He feels the enthusiasm and talent so far displayed will be· helpful when the team encounters the more established college soccer teams. Sakala's optimism for soccer extends to all the sports com- priSing Union females. A large Is there a secret plot to blow-upS & E? NOTTWI·TTS IS RETURN;ING Show up at the radio $tation (WRUC, not WFL Y) a! 9 pm on Wed. Night and help us decide Not paid for by fhe Committee to Resurrect DanFreifeld reason for this, iS the switching of. the AJ.AW to the NCAA t})js year as the nationwide governing organization of women's programs. Formerly, the NCAA included only men. Under the AlA W, coaches for women's teams were not allowed to actively recruit team members. There were never any personal contacts made or visiting of prospects. Under the NCAA, however:, women's teams will now be operating under the same guideliJles as the men's teams. This equality extends on to the Union f:ields too. No male sport, regardless of its establishment, has priorlty over the fields. In fact,. according to Sakala, a deciding . factor .in building the new field last year was the increase in women's sports programs. Also, with the exception of certain liability problems which could occur if women joine<l some contact sports, women are -free to try out for any. of the sports currently comprised of males only. If .u._ere is enough interest, Sakala says, any of these sports can become either co-ed as the swim team has, or a separate woman's team can be formed. Presently, Sakala explains, Union may be con- sidering forming a woman's Hockey team because of the increasing interest shown. Sakala still feels the need to \send out a call to all Union women to Sign up for. sports.\ Even those with no experience· are welcome. Quick to point out his favorable opinion of women's programs as they are, Sakala sees an even brighter future. Improve your memory. Order this memo board now;_ before you forget! •· Fall.Arrivals By TRACY LA-MARCA Sports Staff .. Women's soccer has attained varsity status after surviving its first two years as a club team. This season, the team has a good mix of returning up- perclassmen who have played together before, as well as a lot of new talent in the form of enthusiastic freshmen. Coach Mary Gillespie is very pleased with the turnout for her team. The interest in women's soccer at Union is evidenced by the no less than 37 players who originally came out this season. Coach Gillespie believes \it would be nice to have the possibility of both a Varsity and a Junior Varsity team next year to keep all the interested people.\ Looking forwardto the current season, she \would like to see the team play well.\ 'lbe players themselves are quite optimistic. Senior Beth Meyer, returning for her third season, feels the team is really taJdng off. \We sh.ould make a good showing this year,\ she says. Sophomore Sibylle Sch- weidt is .also happy with the team and she thinks \everyone has a · strong feeling of togetherness. We want to play; a good game of soccer.\ The Union women .begin competition next week in two away matches against Siena and Colgate. Heads Up to Win By CArnY GIFFORD Sports Staff It's that time of the year again, and with the return of autumn so . comes pre-season athletics. This year's Varsity Volleyball squad consists of returning seniors Catherine Grfford, Brenda Hugick {Capt.), Karen Roth, Katie Schatzle (Capt.) and Natalie Stone; junior Jodi Brenner; sophomores Laura Berrish and Cheri Ann Wong and four newcomers; junior Kristina Frantz and freshmen Mary Forbes, Kristine Gernert and . Suzette Collier. The squad is coached by Lynn Barta. After sweating out one .very long week and an ad .. ventur.esome 17-rriiie bike hike, the team decimated Russell Sage 4-0 on September 11th. After several more scrim- mages, the season opened Monday, Sept. 20th at home against Skidmore, a traditional opponent. The five-game match ended with Union handing Skidmore a 3-2 defeat (12-15, 3- 15, 15-4, 15-3, 15-9). After a BE IN THE FOREFRONT OFTODAY'S. TECHNOI.CXiY ASAN AIR FORCE ENGINEER shaky start, Union started moving their feet and played heads-up volleyball. Captain Brenda Hugick dted Cheri Wong and Laura Berrish for thetr excellent serving and spiking. Katie Schatzle also sparked Union's offense with strong all-round play and 9 consecutive serves to sway Skidmore's defense. Another pleasant surprise was the serving and net play of fresh- man Suzette Collier. Her presence at the net will be a welcome asset considering this year's rough schedule. This year's edition of Union Volleyball looks very com- petitive and a great season is anticipate<! by alt Highlights of the season will ',be matches against Army (Div. 2) on the 22nd, Cornell (Div. 1) and Fordham (Div. 2) on the 25th, and the quest for their third consecutive Northeast Invitational Title. The next home match will be October 4th against Siena. If you're walking by some time, stop in and cheer for the team! Our engineering officers are planning and designing tomorrow's weapon systems today. Many are seeing their ideas and concepts materialize. They have the finest, state-of- the-art equipment to test their theories. The working environment is conducive to research. And Air Force experience is second to none. You can be part .of this dynamic team if you have an .engineering degree. Your first step will be Officer Training School. Help us shape our future as we help you start yours. Be an engineering officer in the Air Force. Contact your Air Force recruiter at 518·472-4484, SSgt. Mike Bobrinitz. Call Collect. ·· A .-eatwa,oflife.

I /. ' WOMEN' A Goal to Win (CNB)-Field hockey coach Martha \Marty\ Morrison compiled a record of 32-12-2 during her first four years. Her Dutchwomen team of 1979-- was top seeded in the New York State AIAW postseason tour- nament while her squad of 1980 was ranked fourth. Last y~r Union suffered through a year long sco_ring drought that saw the Dutchwomen tally only 13 goals as their record fell to 3-9-1. This season coach Morrison is expecting to return to the winning tradition of her initial four teams. \I'm very pleased with what I've seen during preseason,\ she said. \Last year we dominated m~y of the games and showed a great deal of skill against most of our opponents. However,. the name of the game is scoring and that is something we just didn't do. \This year's team has a lot more firepow.er,., she con .. tinued. \'l'he team will be a lot more agre!sive because of the new peopl~ we have and because the seniors are · determined to bring back the :winning . tr!lditi.on that they helped establish prior to last year.\ Two reasoD$ for Morrison's optimistic outlook are her senior eo-captains Holly Howard and. Sue Ensel. Both players are four-year starters who have the ability to run the team. \:Polly and Sue are like having coaches on the field,'' explained Morrision. Ensel keeps the de(eri$e glued together from her sweeper position whll'e Howar<t. ;l(~eps the transition game going from her midfield spot.- · Senior Kathy Bentley wiU start in . goal for UniQn. Morrison describes her as a solid player with the \burning desire to improve ber~~ with every game.\ Ensel will be at sweeper with senior Julie DelDeo and' sophomore Carolyn Gilbert in the backfield. Senior, and three-year ~arter aernadette Albanese and .fresh- man Julie Fitzsimmons Will join Howard at midfield. Four~year letterwitmer Emily Mpnosson will anchor the forward line that includes freshmen Malicie Viener and Cheryl Wasb~um as · well as sophomore Diane Moskaluk. Morrison is par.tiqularly excited about the preseason ·play of freshmen Fit~lmmons and Washburn. . \1. think both of them rate &n\0118 the best freshmen. ever to play field hockey at Union College,\ she praised. ·uThey are both fundamentally strong~ very qUick and have $b.own a great deal of aggressiveness.: The team will benefit ftom the fact that Fitzsimmons · plays defense while WashblmJ is a forward. What I mean is that they are playing th~ir·natural positions without -having to. . compete for the same job.\ The season will open tomorrow, September 24 on the Astroturf field agaillSt. local rival Skidmore at 6:30 p.m. '82 Is Our Year ByKAmY DUFFY Sports Staff The women's field hockey team is psyched and ready to avenge last year's disap- pOinting season. With the first game approaching, spirits are high and attitudes are positive. There are many returning team members and also a large number of enthusiastic and very talented freshmen. Last year's team~ possessed the talent but lacked the extra drive to push the ball in the goal. With a couple of new additions and some added exper~ence, this year's offensive squad is tough to stop. The defensive unit is again stable and strong and ready to move downfield. Coach · Morrison bas a very optimistic outlook and feels the team has become stronger than some of its opponents. But the team can't do it by themselves. They need the support of their fellow students and faculty. So come on up to the turf tomorrow, September 24, for the women's · first home game against Skidmore. SPORTS NOTICE Women's Organhutional for Basketball Tuesday, September 28th, 1982 ell 3 pm Block U room in Alumni Gym AU interested players must attend .. Questions?? Contact Lynn Barta Attention BIOLOGY Students WHALE WATCH '82:. Friday, Octob~r 1 Provincetown, Cape Cod Sponsored by: The Biology Club and The Biology Dept. Itinerary: leave Uni-on 1:00pm Friday; Arrive- . in Provincetown 6: 00 pm Friday evening - Free 7 am Sat. 5-hour Whale Watch. Leave ·Provin- cetown 2:00 pm.. Total cost ·$12 (not induding meals) · +Funding made ppssibleby The Biology Club, The·Biology Dept. and a grant from I EF - . LIMITED SEATING See Professor Butterstein (5309) for sign up- you must pay your $12 when you sign-up. Harriers On the Move .By:!JOG Sptijs· Staff After a, gtlielling week of preseason, tb~·.wornen's and meri 's cro,ss..coun.tty teams are fallirlg into,.~.,, 4).t~• they. haven't ha(l a meet yet to prove themselves, Co$cb RU$8 Ebbets · has. a lot to say abOut his ex- pectations for the season. ~'I am · very op.timistic. about this season. I had a yezy successful recruiting year and I'm very: pleased with the work my fresh- men are doing~ When asked how be feels the season will go, he answered, \In all honesty, the women will have a difficult .time repeating !AS NYS NCAA cbanlpions. The ·:nwnber of competinl· NCAA schools bas greatly incr.etSed since-the demise of·the AlAW. I still feel Union cOUld qualify for the nationab to be hekl' in Fredonia· Nov. 20.\ 1Jis feelings about Ute men: \The team is top heavy with freshmen. They have created a new attitude. Many of the fresh· men have come from successful high school programs. Union ·shoUld fare well in our dual meets. RPI, October 16 will be the big . one. My goal for the team is to. move intothe top half of the teams at the state1neet in Syracuse and at the lC4A meet at Van Cortlandt Park in NYC~\ Returnmg athletes · for the te~ are Inge Stockman who leads the women, along with NYSNCAA champiOn$, Danielle eJ;terniak, Janice Glidden, Joan 0 C_onnor ,an~ StJe S~opera. Sentors Denms ContoiS and DaveDeUehunt appear to be the top men at .press time. Union also has a Jot of fresh young runners who Will remain our secret weapons until we unleash them at the first meet. This . coming Saturday the- men will . take off. at Colgate. The women start their season next Saturday against Mid,. dlebury. · IAIA ~·~(:~ ~~~· ~~~ eteeO~JEMIJ{)I{IUM 1()9 Canal Square, Broadway, Sch'dy.'Phone: 374-4332 • PIZZA • Cheese Ex. Cheese s.usage Mushroom Pepperoni Green Peppers Meatballs Onions Anchovies Any Add Item Papa Cicco's Deluxe WHITE PIZZA OUR .SPECIALTY - Try One Today- Pizza wit'h no s·auce Spr.inkled with Olive Oil and fr•~•h Garlic with mounds .of Mozzarella cheese N. Y.S Style Sicillian Style (Deepdi•h) 8\ cut 12\ cut 24\cut 4.25 5.0.0 8.50 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 1'0.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 .75 1.00 1.50 9~ ~~ 15~ THE. SHRIMP THE WHITE SCAMPI CLAM SAUCE PI~ PI~ Shrimp and Garlic with Olive Oil and Mozzarella chen~ L,. 6.75 Pizza with White Clam Sauce and Garlic with Mozzarella cheese L~r. 4.50 ·. Sicillian 12 cut 5.25 Sicillian 12 cut 7.50 8cut 12 cut 24 cut . 6.00 6.75 9.75 24 cut 8.75 24 cut 10.50 • IT ALlAN SANDWICHES • \'-<tilt ball - Mea~ball Pa~migiana Sausage Sau$are Parmigiana Sauaare & Pep~rs .. Err Plant Parmigiana Z.IO Steak . . . . . 2.50 2.50 Salami If... Provalone . . • 2.50. 2.10 Pro11eiotto & Provalone . . . 2.95 2.00 Sandwiches with· peppers 20' extra 2.3~ Sandwiches wifh Mushrooms 20' extra 2JiO Sandwiches with Onions 10' extra ·ftaiian Roasted Peppers 25' extr. • SPECIAL TIES • Calzone Allf.hon•l•ll•d•nh~><oto<h .. ••· ·Plain . 2.25 Ham , . 2.65 \'\''•••II• , hr.-• Sausage 2.65 ProscioUo .. . 2.95 . . r r ... ... -. ----~ ... __________ _....,..., __ ....... ~ .._ ~-- ........................... -. _ _. ..... - ._ .. ~.--- --!'-- ... --- \\'! a . _FREE MERCHANDISE- ,. 1 Every time you get a pizza or sandwiches vai:Ued at more than I : $4.00 you will receive a coupon- save them for Free Merchandise. : f I · 1 15 Coupons 1 8 cut Free (cheese only) I · I 20 Coupons 1 12 cut Free (cheese on I y) I ~ 25 Coupons 124cut Free (1 ingredient) : 1 50 Coupons Vz keg of beer (3days notice), 1 1 · _ 100 Coupons Pizza Party for 25 people with beer at your I f · dorm or fraternity (2 days .notice) I. ~------------~------------------------------~ WE DELIVER O·N CAMPUS PHONE 37 4-4332 Steve u H s· w m 1 Union F • • • Ba E With resignat Coach Directo nounced coach ' Sa kala very sor this is a forhiin j Wirth· program the cha1 program leaves \ Last sea best rec•

tbe who with and our the I I I ~. OONOO~D11QN818~ September U, 1.981 .. Page 1&5 · Athlet,e of the Week By D. HURLEY Sports Staff Senior Steve Bodmer of the Dutchmen football team is the first recipient of Athlete of the Week honors for the 1982-83 school year. Steve was outstanding in. the Dutchmen's 23q victory over the Rochester Yellowjackets. He recorded six solo tackles, tbree assiSts, two quarterback sacks, and a blocked pass. In all, Union's defense got to Rochester quarterbacks nine times. Bodmer, ' 6'3\ 225 lb. defensive tackle, is in his third season as a starter and is a two year letter wihner for the Dutchmen. He graduated from Westfield Senior High School where he was an aU·county player. At Union, Steve is an economics major and president of the Delta Upsilon fraternity. SPORTS SocCer Drops Pair Continued fl'Om page •11 Springfield. Mike is a true guts and finesse player who looks forward to being able to play soon at one hundred percent. Despite the slow start the Dutchmen look to be a strong contender for post-season play. In the nets this year is senior Rick Russell. Rick's looked good in both games so far this year. Rick's strongest at an- ticipating where the opponent will put the shot and then distributing the ball quickly to his teammates to send the team back on offense. Playing in front ·of Rick will be sophomore sweeper Istvan Tamoga. The mos~ :gifted of Coach Magee's players, Istvan has the uncanny · ability of tackling a defender then carrying the ball the length of the fi~ld and putting a blast by the opposing defender. Also back with Tamoga on defense is senior Frank Scorina. Frank's hustle and true desire make him one of the toughest fullbacks on the squad to beat. Frank is one of Union's tri-captains. The Dutclunen met up against defending N.Y. State Div. III champs Cortland Wednesday night on Alexander. The Garnet take the road Saturday to meet Army at West Point. >It Steve Bodmer . S(OR-eBOAR.O FOOTBALL OQO) Rugby Opens Saturday ) ) ) s ~ ) Union 28 Rochester 7 SOCCER f0-2) Hartwick 7 St. Lawrence 2 JAY'S BARBER AND STYLING Union 0 Union 1 Welcomes all you lads & lassies to stop in and meet our blue-eyed Irish stylist, Erin. Sha·mpoo &- Condition & Cut & Blowdry - $12.00 Call for appointment 382-5888 STUDENT SPECIAL $10 WITH THlS AD ·• .185 Jay Street ( 1 door in from State Street} Union Ruggers open vs. Rhinebeck on Saturday ... Wirth Goes Back to Brown BySC Sports Staff The Rugby Football' aub is back at it .again as it prepares for its upcoming Fall season. With a strong showing of both veterans and rookies, the club is hoping for a repeat of or a better season than. last Spring when it finished the season at a 7-1 mark. But before going into this year's team, a brief description ofthe sport is necessary. Rugby is presently the fastest growing sport in America played' at club and college levels. It is also picking up popularity · at the prep and high schOol levels. Though it is growing rapidly, it > still remains a non-professional sport. · > On the field, each team consists -of fifteen players divided into two sections, the serum and line. In the serum are eight brutal, tough forwards who push and paw their way Bagnoli ·Takes Over Helin By LOU GEORGE Sports Staff - With last spring's sudden resignation of . Head Football Coach Joe Wirth, Athletic Director Dick Sakala an- nounced that the new head coach would be AI Bagnoli. Sakala stated that ''Union is- very sorry to see Joe leave, but this is an excellent opportunity for hiin to advance his career.\ Wirth·had been in the Union Program for only two years, but the changes he made in the Program were tremendous. He leaves with a record of 5--11-1. Last season he posted Union's best record in a decade, 4+1, which included . an impressive victory over nationally ranked Albany State. That victory put the Dutchmen into the Lambert Bowl rankings for the first time in over fifteen years. Wirth and Sakala both believe · that Bagnoli cannot only continue the success of the football program, but can improve it immensely. AI Bagnoli graduated from Central ·connecticut State College in 1974 and worked as defensive coordinator at Albany State for two seasons. (The Dutchinen face Albany State on . October 2.) Bagnoli has been in the Union program for five ye• and has an impressive record working with Union players. Twice while at Union his defensive backfield has been ranked number one in pass .defense in. New England's Division III. • Upon learning of his ap- pointment, Bagnoli stated that he would not make any drastic changes in the Dutchmen program due to the successful system of Cpach Wirth. Bagnoli said he would add a few of his own concepts, but knowing that he and his players are familiar with Wirth's system, he feels there is no reason to change the program. Bagnolfs first test as a head coach was against the University of Rochester in which the Dutchmen won decisively, 28•7. against the oppoSition. The second part, the line, is made up of seven swift backs who carry the ball with speed to out- maneuver the opposite squad. A rugby match is eighty minutes of non-stop action. The only breaks are a fiv~minute halftime, penalties, or play out of bounds. Also, a two-minute timeout can be called in case of an injury. The limit for player substitution is two which is only allowed in case of severe injury. Though an observer may claim that the -sport is one of chaotic and rul~free play, this is to the contrary. There are several rules that must be strictly adhered to. One rule is that, unlike football which is occasionally associated with rugby, there are no- f-Orward . passes. A player must pass the ball backwards. The only way to advance the ball .is by running or kicking it forward. Another rule which is different from football is that only the player · with the ball can be touched, held or tackled. No blocking or obstructing is allowed. If a ball carrier is tackled, he or she must release the ball and at- tempt to get away from it. This aids in continuing play. If any of these rules are broken, a penalty kick or scrummage to the other team will result. It should also be noted that the referee may make an ad- vantage call by letting play continue. Sometimes scoring can also seem complicated to the eyes of the ignorant observer. A try, similar to a touchdown, is scored by pushing the ball down in the end zone. This is worth four points. After a try, a conversion is allowed in which a kicker will. try to split the uprights from a point peru pendiclilarto where the try was scored. A conversion is worth two more points. Also, during fJilY time of play, a player may attempt a drop-kick which is worth three points. Lastly, occasionally a kick is allowed after a penalty. If good, this too is worth thrEte points. As to this fall's team~ it looks to be an exciting and challenging season. Due to the loss of many seniors, captains Keith Dean and John Tierney have their work cut out for them. Veterans ~hat are back are serum men Wayne Godlin, Carl Aik~, Doug-Bawngarten, · Ron Slosberg, Bob Waaler and Mark \Pinhead\ Soloway. Veterans on the line are Lee Waxman, Tom Glynn, Aaron Schliefer, Steve Cole, Scott Collins and Tom Higgins. Also, the Club welcomes veteran Russ Blackhouse from England. The aub opens its season with a home match Saturday against the Rhinebeck RFC. Tuesday the Club will scrim- mage the Schenectady Reds B team. Regarding the upcoming season, captain Dean com- ments, \We've got a good turnout and everybody's been·. hitting real hard. I'm looking forward to a good year.\ The Club is always open to all those interested in playing, no experience necessary. It practices every day at four o'clock in front of West College. llllll r4l (I ~Campus Protestants Community Events -all welcome- Sunday Worship 4p.ni.- Memorial Chapel Fellowship Gathering At the home of Prof. & Mrs. Lea Aroian Meet at 6: 20 p.m .. in Strauss Lounge to go over

Page 16 u~ 19Bt PORTS • • . Home vs. Hobart Sat. Football Romps Rochester By LOU GEORGE Sports Staff The Dutchmen travelled to the University of Rochester for their first game of the 1982 season and obtained an im- pressive 28-7 victory over a tough Rochester squad. The win was AI Bagnoli 's first win as a head coach. Althoug·h the Dutchmen committed five tlirnovers in the first half, they controlled the game both of- fensively and defensively. After mishandling the opening kickoff, Union started very deep.in their own territory. On their third piay from scrimmage the Dutchmen fumbled the ball away on their own eight yardline giving the Yellowjackets an early 7-0 lead. Four other turnovers, three fumbles and one mtt~rc~ent:lon .. ,.- gave Rochester food fi position. The Yellowjac~ets' drives started from their own 32 and 42 and Union's 36 and 13 yardlines. Each time the Union defense .rose to occasion and halted their ''The sound,\ kept us offense and Bob secondary tter·ceJltillln each. capitalized on a fumbled punt that was Coaches Changed ByCNB Sj,orts Staff: Tomassoni Leaves Shaun Teevens has been appointed assistant ·varsity hockey coach and assistant rink directol\at Union College it was announced by Uriion's director of athletics, Richard Sakala. Teevens will replace Ronn Tomassoni, who has moved to Harvard as the assistant hockey coach. \I'm very pleased that Shaun will be with us next season,\ said Union's head hockey mentor, Charlie Morrison. \I believe· that his background, youth, and enthusiasm will be a big advantage to the young players in our program.\ Teevens, a 1982 graduate of Dartmouth COllege where he played four years of varsity hockey and was co-captain during his senior season, was a member of the 1978-79 and 1979- 80 Dartmouth teams that qualified for the NCAA national tournaments. He was chosen to the Coaches' All-Ivy League second team and All-New England third team in 1981. Teevens was selected the Most Valuable Player of the Auld Lang Syne Hockey Classic, was recipient of the Martha M: Phelan Memorial Award as the hockey team's MVP, and the recipient of the Alfred W. Watson Trophy as the \out- standing male athlete on campus.'' While at Union, Teevens, will assist with organi~ing and directing the varsity and junior varsity programs. He will also be responsible for recruiting and assisting in the ad- ministration of all operations at Achilles Rink. New Int. Director Robert J. Montana (Bob) of New Hartford, NY, nas been named assistant basketball coach and intramural director at Union College it was an- noW1ced by athletic director Dick Sakata. Montana, a graduate of Brockport, replaces Tom Collette, who had returned· to Springfield College to work on his Masters Degree. Montana, who was the assistant basketball coach at · Hamilton prior to coming to Union, has been on the staff of numerous college basketball camps including those at Hamilton, Syracuse, LeMoyne, and Canton. He has also been the jW1ior varsity coach at Whitesboro Central School and New York Mills Central School. \Bob has an excellent basketball background and comes to. ·us from a very suc- ce~fUl program at Hamilton,\ s~iel head coach Bill Scanlon. \I .feel that · his experience will greatly benefit our young players this year.\ Montana will also be the head coach for Union's junior varsity program. Fashouer Head Trainer Tom Fashouer, assistant trainer at Union College since 1979, has- been named head trainer it was announced by director of athletics Dick Sakala. Fashouer, a 1978 graduate of Lock Haven State, replaces Beth Ayn Deutsch, who accepted a position at Southwest Missouri State. Sakala also announced the appointment of Christina (Chris) Lobello as the College's assistant trainer. Lobello is a 1980 graduate of the University of Massachusetts where she received a Bachelor of Science . Degree before obtaining her Masters of Science Degree from Indiana State University in 1981. Prior to joining Union's staff, Lobello was the head athletic director at Deering High School in Portland, ME. Whipple on Full-Time Mark Whipple, a part-time assistant baseball coach. last year at Union, has been elevated to full-time status it was announced by athletic director Dick Sakala. Whipple, a 1979 graduate of Brown University where he was a three-year starter at quar• terback and a four-year starter at shortstop, will be in charge of the quarterbacks and receivers for th~. football program and will take over as the head baseball coach. NEFNL TOP FIVE l. WPI 2. Bates 3. Amherst 4. Union 5. Williams recovered by Luke· Fannon and scored their first touchdown on an. eight yard pas$ from Dan Stewart to Frank Kraft. At the end of one qw;arter of play the score was locked at '7.;.7. The Dutchmen scored their second touchdown on a halfbac.k pass from Charlie Hickey -to Rich Kelleher, who stepped in front of the defender to make the touchdown catch. Union put the game away ln the third quarter. The Dutchmen had two long sustaining drives which were eqgineered by Stewart. The first drive (67 yards) ended when Stewart again found Frank Kraft in the end zone. The second drive (-67 · yards) came late in the third quarter when Stewart took the ball in from the one yardline. - Excluding the ballhandling miscues of the first half the Union offense moved .the ball both on the ground and in the air very effectively. The offense Score tw perlo4.: Uai• 7714.-.. It~ 7 ....... R - Foret 2 rUII (.Jtscml$ .kick). U - Kroft, 9 pan trom Stewart IMcKtl· vey kick). U - K e.lla her, 32 pas !I. from tilcl<ey !McKelvey kick). l:l - Krall, 7 pau from Stew~trl (McKel· v.ey kick) U- Stewart, l·run (M~Kelveykick). STATISTICS · Union Forst downs 16 Rushes-yfl\d~ 59-272 Passing yards 139 Passes B·IJ. I Jitelurns yards .95. Punts ave rave 4-3l:2 Fumbtes lost 4 Penallii'•YIIf'ds 7- 57 Rot.hos- ltr 7 AI- 13 \ .. 20-l 4 11-35.8 i 1· !Ill Union's Bill Huttner ran for 82 yards against Rochester. picked up 272 yards in 59 at,. tempts on the ground and 139 yards through the air. The ground ~ttack was highlighted with strong performances. .by Bill Huttner and Mike Wells. Huttner had 82 yards on 14 carries and Wells had 74 yards on ten attempts. The Dutchmen play their home opener Saturday ·at 1:30 against Hobart. SPORTS HAPPENINGS Septenber 23-30 Varsity Football Varsity Soccer J. V. Soccer - Cross-Country Rugb_y Se-pt. 25 Hobart Sept . . 25 at Army Sept. 29 at Hamilton Sept ...-25 at RP I Sept. 29 at Hamilton Sept. 25 at Colgate Sept. 25 Rhinebeck 1:30 2:00 3:30 11:00 -3:30 1:00 l: 00 ••• Coaeh Magee Optinilstle Soccer Starts Slow By SCOT!' WYKOFF Sports Staff hope they learned something net. Bernie played on the la~t Union team to make post- season play and will help this year's squad with his two years of ext)erience and leadership. out there today.\ _ The young Union squad then once again hit the road to take on the Saints of St. Lawrence. Despite fine play by Bernie Zeifa,ng and Mike Lewis, Union dropped its second game of the yoWlg seasont 2-1. Coach Magee will be counting on the strong scoring ability of Zeifang. Bernie got the lone Dutchmen goal on Saturday as he stole the ball from the Saints' goalie and alertly put it in the back of the Union's varsity soccer team started pre-season practices a little over three weeks ago with the promise of starting the '82 campaign with back to back games with Division I power HartWick and NCAA Division III qualifier of a year agot St. Lawrence. The Dutchmen traveled to Hartwick on the (irst day of school with high of knocking off one top teams in all of Union score minutes went on goals on Union by a Though .. u.ii\'~¥•~; to one of squads in bright sp(>ts Union. Senior Andy game at the right fullback );iosition. In an attempt to combat one of HartWick's top players, Coach Magee moved Drew back to full. Dreher rose to the occasion and played tough all day on defense and ~ later in the afternoon almost got .s:::. the Dutchmen on the board with : a dangerous cross to teammate Bernie Zeifang. Head Coach ~· Sob Magee looked at the loss to Hartwick and conunented, \l One must be amazed that senior tri-captain Mike Lewis was even able to- step on the field Saturday let alone play as well as he did. Mike suffered injuries to his right and left quads early in pre-season and then severely bruised his foot ;in an exhibitipn game ~ith Continued on page 15 Senior Andy Dreher (In, whrtel provides a scoring touch for the Dutchmen. By:PJ and] In its 6 College 1 subject o; station, w founded college, Charles General presently its wattal matter o entire Un station is organizat hours a WjtUC a entertairu and infor: A. grou upon by\ Nevas (G Dinces ( John l Manager) (Special ~oard). ' with the c increasin~ smission 1 Accordi radio stat least too·~ ri.!ling, bu been inefJ This law Goldberg, lot of t1 around, at feelsthat, ass and w airways. 1 on these~ WRUCi stations r i=orn StudE

~l ff?P~~,~ ·~~ tlt:~'f~.rJR-=.: ~;.:~,)' ~;t 74 their 1;30 30 00 ()0 last post- this that the as left and Ot·in ,e 15 ··:···=·':: Alan Goldberg AndyNevas September 30, 1982 Gov't. Gets Going By.MARCY BURS . Ell,.. \ \ · freedOIJl \to regulate their in- News Editor , <( · ternal affa~ \ and \if the / v· Student For feels that an The Student Fo ,l£El, the officer mak~ mistake, should p ri n c lp l e g 0 v r: n men t i~ b.ft~~'l~eir j dgement solely organization of t ~tudeflt\ llll tl\iil:\m1stak \ It ended With body, meets each 'W~ekiJl;b the suggestion at \the student discuss current is es con- body shoul e a close look at cerning the camp· com- the man hich the Student munity. Ilene Landres r ~k. Fort~ID\. \i . · · tes. This specific ent . of. the Forum, ~omm f!cf I 0 : c~M • trates the dangers that although there 1s much: · m a governance be accomplished, the Forum system that lacks sufficient this year seems capable of checks of power.;, According to handling any issues or problems Landress, it is not so much the that might arise. student body, but the Forum &pedal Consultant to WRUC Board WR UC General Manager The major issue being dealt itself which is taking a close with at the present time con- look at the way it operates. cerns the drafting and adoption On Wednesday, .September of by-laws. to the student 29th, llene Landress will have .government constitution. The met with William (Chip) issue of by-laws a~ose last year Morris, adviser to the Forum, after the suspenst.on and sub- and Steve Benson, sophomore WRUC Seeks Power By:PAULCHOQUETTE and MIKE SHERIDAN In its 62nd year, WRUC, the College radio .station, is the subject of much attention. The station, which was the .first to be founded at an American . college, was established by Charles Steinmetz .. thrJmgh General Electric and is presently planning. to increase its wattage. 'Clearly, this is a matter of .importance to the entire Union community as the station is the largest campus organization and is active 24 hours a day. Beyond this, WRUC acts as a medium of erite~inro.en~, commentary and mformatton. A . group interview insisted upon· by WRUc; ·included Andy N~vas (General Manager), Jeff Dmces (Pr?gram Manag~r), John Retlly (Technical Manager), and Alan Goldberg (Special Consultant to the ~oard). This interview dealt ~ith th~ continuing question of mcreasmg the station's tranA smission capability. According to FCC ruling, all radio stations must transmit at least 100 watts. This is not a new ruling, but ratber, one that has be~n in effect for several years. This law was passed:, says Goldberg, \because there are a lot of these little stations around, ai)d apparently the FCC feelsthat we are all a pain in the a~s and we're cluttering up the all'Ways. They want to cut down on these small stations.\ WRUC is typic<ll of the small stations referred ·to by Gold- berg: Under ~he ruling,. the station, which currently transmits 10 watts, must iri- cr~ase its output in order to remain in operation. Union has, as do many other coUeges, an application filed with the FCC requesting approval of the watt~ge increase. According to WRUC representfttives, t.his- approval · appears closer than ever .. AccQrding to Goldberg, \It (the application) is being processed, there's just one more thing we have to get out of the way.\ This last obstacle involves the possibility of in- terf~rence with WRGB. This station, which is the audio broadca~ of television channel 6, is transmitted at· 88.0 on the FM band. When the proposed power increase is passed, WRUG must move down in frequency, and would be transmitting at Q9!/ FM. Due to the close .proximity of the two transmissions and the college station's increased power, the possibility of interference has ~een . discussed. . John .Reilly says however, \It's not really a valid complaint because we're !lot getting t~t much of a power mcrease and. w··•·· · ·.·till · d . ere s a goo distance away from them on the band.\ · Goldberg attributes the protest to the fact that TV 6 transmits in an unfavorable ~position for a conunercial radio station. Blaming \the TV 6 Ad Hoc Committee\ . Goldberg says, \What the rule is, when they have their national meeting, wherever it is, they say 'Everytirne you see · a COMMITTEE VACANCIES Social Committee - 3 vacancies (2are reserved solely for freshmen) Film Committee- 4 vacancies (J.are reserved solely for freshmen) Speakers Forum - 5 vacancies (3 are reserved solely for freshmen) Concert Committee. 3 vacancies (2 are reserved solely for freshmen) Etections.r.;ommittee- 6 vacancies (3 are reserved solely for freshmen) TraffJc and Pet Court- 2 vacancies ( 1 is reserved solely for freshmeA) i=orms fo.r these openings may be obtained in the Student Affairs Office. - college station or an educational station, or anybody who's in that area increase wattage; protest it!\ Goldberg claims that \the FCC does not want to take time 1n working this out.\ He adds, \'l'herefore we have to get on the phone ~nd get our lawyers on the ph9ne and sU!rt talkirig to aU of these different\ people ·(at other stations) ourselves.\ Goldberg feels optimistic, saying, ''I've seen every hurdle in the world now and I can almost guarantee this is the last hurdle to go over. This has got Continued on page 2 IFC Polic.r sequent dismissal of Paul representative, to draw up a · Grosfjman, editor-in-chief of \rough\ draft of the by-laws. Con~or~te~~;sls, due .to his Landress explained that by- publica~ton ~the newspaper of laws are nothing more than \a a confidential Conduct Com- framework within which to mittee report. Concordiensis work\. They will define the summarized the controversy procedme of how and when the surrounding the Forum's Forum should act in various de~\sio.n when it aske~, in . an situations. She went on to say edttonal dated Aprll 8th, that the by-laws would restrain whether? the Student Forwn the Forl,UTI from acting as a should_''h~ve th~ power to·t~e judici~y and. not merely an an Editor-m-Cbief out of .offiCe . executwe body. The job of the when they have no by-laws to Forum, according to Landress, define the extent of their is to oversee the heads of clubs powers.'' The editorial went on and then to have enough faith in to ask whether the Forum those people to take care of the should \have the power t9 act committee's own internal af- upon any organization's Continued on page 2 Greek Standards Examined By DOUG LANI)ON News Editor Though he believes the InterFraternity Councii shoqld strengthen its position on campus, Assistant Dean of Students Michael Andolina sees the IFC as a definite cohesive body to Greek organizations at -Union. Andolina believes Union's fraternities . are \very strong because of tradition\ and points out that several of the n a t.i on a 11 y r e co g niz e d organizations began here. In fact, Union is o~en referred to as \The Mother of Frater- nities''. The social structure of the College is presently un~ dergoing .great change, as the percentage of female students r~ses. :rtns trend is having direct Impact on fraternities, according to Andolina, since the number of freslunen males able to be rushed decreases each year. Because the College population. is now ap- proximately forty percent women, Andolina expects. to see another sorority created over the next few years. The IFC serves as the vehicle for Andolina and the student Affairs Department to com- municate with the fraternities. Campus issues pertinent to fraternities are lobbied through the IFC, and members of the organization will meet with Dean of Students Joseph Mammola over lunch today in ~ichael Andolina, Assistant Dean of Students and IFC Ad VISOr • · hopes of developing a working relationship with the Dean and his office. Certain standards of fraternity conduct acceptable to Mammola will be determined, and Andolina stresses that action will be taken against any of the Greek organizations that violate these standards. The IFC sets policy for the behavior of fraternities, holds hearings on misconduct, and makes recommendations concerning action to be taken to Mammola. IFC plans for the annual Greek Week, scheduled for tht> second week in October, are underway. Also, the group's subcommittee on conduct will soon be administering hearings on the alleged misconduct of a particular fraternity. Greek organization party poiicy, also handled by the IFC, is being examined to decide whether ~dmission charges should be implemented. Andolina ex- plains the need for a resolution uniform to all the fraternities since one will not want t~ charge if others do not. The Union IFC will also be spon- soring the regional conference for their organization in early November. A more equitable meal plan for fraternity pledges, which the IFC successfully lobbied for, was one of the IFC's primary accomplishments last year, according to Andolina. Union's IFC is financed totally through the individual fraternities, and receives no Continued on page a

Page 2 OONO()RDIEN818, Septembe.r 3Q, 1981 Forum Governs With Care Rules Reviewed Continued from page 1 fairs. In drawing up the by-laws, the Forum will also attempt to clarify the Constitution, Upon reading the Student Con- stitution, which can be found in the Student Handbook .given to students each year, one can find many vague or inconsistent statements. The target date for the adoption of the by-laws by , the Forum is the end of the fall tenn. organization can prove that it is spending wisely and benefiting the campus, then additional funding will be allocated. In addition to organization and finance, Landress .f.eels that there were other problems last year which can be resolved. The governing body, it seems, spent too much time on allocation and budgeting decisions. She feels that the Forum \should not just allocate money,\ but it \should take an interest in other things such as campus spirit.'' Another area to be improved upon deals With the Coml11ittee on Committee's selection of Club chairmen. Apparently there was a backlog of . apu pUcations last year and the COC had a \late start\ on their selection process. 11Jis year, Landress noted, the COC will begin earlier and wiU take more care in s·electing qualified students, Although Landress is op- timistic about the coming year she said with reserve, ''the year is still yoWlg\. On a final note she commented that individual student involvement in the government should be en- couraged. U an individual is concerned about a specific issue or has any ideas concerning the campus, ''they should feel that they can come to the Forutn and see what it can or cannot do to help.'' · Shari Midonec~, sophomore representative, also feels that student involvement in the Formn should be en- couraged. \When there are only three people running for the three openings of junior representative (as was the case last .spring), then there is a serious lack of interest on the part of the student body.\ · Conttnqed frctm page 1 money from Student Activity funds. 'nUs system,. Andolina points out, gives his organization more autonomy, since, in .regard to spending money, the IFC is not an- swerable to other student groups. on -campus. Annually, each brother must contribute a specified amount to the we, in order that the fraternities pay in proportion to the number of members they have. Money is used for Greek Week .• National IFC dues, a published pamphlet entitled ''Fraternal Life at Union\ the Greek Directory, and fees to send members to the IFC National Conference. In regard to New York State raising the drinking age to nineteen,. Andolina feels fraternities must become more responsible ·when having parties, and develop a standard procedure .for checking iden- Besides the by-laws, another aim of the Forum is an imu provement in organization. As the membership changes hands from year to year, there seems to be an inefficient carryover of records and information. Landress noted that carryover this year has been facilitated by the fact that six members, Barton Hill, Gary Lehr, Shari Midoneck, Melissa Viglielno, Karen Schick and Mary Martin, have the experience gained from being on or working with the Forum the previous year ... The Forum is also setting up an office of their own in which to maintain permanent files of committee constitutions, Forum minutes, and other essential data which ·can easily be referred to at a moment's notice. One major problem encountered last year was the tendency of the government organization to continually delay issues due to lack of available data. Center Offers Services Another area on which the Forum seems to have cracked down upon is club finance. Landress explained that although club chairmen were asking for larger budgets each year, v\ery few of the club chairmen actually knew how ni~ch money they wet;e spep· ding pn behalf of their respective clubs. She. stres~ed that although the Forw'n would be able to allocate more funds (the student activity fee was raised five dollars), each organization treasurer would have to keep detailed accounts of club spending. She also stressed that although the Forwn was giving less money to the clubs than that which the chairmen had requested, if the By TIM LOWRY .. Staff \Many students walk into here (Career Center) with the idea that their options are limited, and we try to point out to them that their options are not limited, and give them a means to explore all their alternatives,\ says Pat Matteo, acting director of the Career Center which is located on the east side of campus across from the tennis courts. \The education that students are getting at Union definitely relates to a great variety of career fields,\ as is apP.arent by · the diversification of alumni professions. ·. .Th~ {...ibe.ral L~arning . background .which teaches oral· and written communication, reasoning, critical thinking, problem solving, and analytical abilities will translate into many types of careers; it is not job specific. People have great flexibility to move into many different career fields based on their abilities and interests. Broadcasters Baffled Continued from page 1 to be it.\ In the past, however, such optimism has gone unrewarded. Similar problems have arisen before when power increase approval seemed near. Last year it was proposed that Union's station would increase its wattage while remaining at 90.9 FM. This was decided against finally because there are two area stations of 100 watts broadcasting at . that frequency, WCDB (SUNY • Albany) and WVCR (Sienna), and interference was con- sidered. Regarding this situation, Reilly says, \we're between Sienna and Albany, and they're both 100 watts at our frequency, so if we go over 100 watts we'd be interfering with two of them, so we have to move down frequency, but when we move down frequency we're interfering with 'J;V 6, so its sort of like a Catch-22.\ other problems · are posed purely because there is \a lot of red tape.'' says Nevas. The (processing of the application is · slow, Goldberg says, \It's just unbelievable how many dif· ferent stages we have to go through .•. It moves from office . to office of the FCC.\ Ablo, there is a date by which all radio stations must transmit at least 100 watts of power. Goldberg says, however, that \the deadline to go to 100 watts has been extended.\ FCC deadlines concerning this matter have also been extended in the past. Of the deadline Reilly says, \it's really irrelevant.'' If granted the requested power increase, new equipment would be needed in the WRUC station. This equipment in- cludes meters, tes~ equipment, new power amplifiers, and a new antenna, at an ap- proxim!lte cost of $7 ,0~0. Accordmg to station representatives, the funds were put aside in a WRUC expansion fund in 1978. With the increased wattage, the potential listening audience will increase from the present 40,000 to several hun- dreds of thousands, and would reach much of Albany and parts of Saratoga. . Alan Goldberg calls WRUC \the only alternative station in the area.\ Station managers claim that the organization is \highly innovative\ and ex- pamiing. Such improvements. in Union College's station . would obv~ously be. greatly aided by the mcrease of power which has been proposed.. About this, Dinces says, \There's no question that we will go 100 watts. The question is when.\ \Education will not loci!; them into a 'particular job.'' .The:._ Career Center not :only ·bri~s · this flexibility into the eyes of ~ the students, but also the op- tions and alternatives involved therein. Although in the past predominantly juniors and seniors have taken advantage of the Career Center, it is now changing. In the last couple of years there has been a dramatic increase in procurement of · resources by freshmen and sophomores. While freshmen and sophomores don't need to make career decisions on. what their fifst·]ob'wlll be,.they can take advantage ()f tbe Career C~nter. and' begin , ·gathering fn- · formation for planning for the future. Students should start early because there are so many programs that the Career Center offers. It is a good idea to take advantage of them through all four years. \It is much easier to make a decision when you have information to work with.'' The Career Center teaches students how to find this in- formation through the use of individual advising, _resources in the career library, career programs, on campus career pane1s, outside alumni, professionals from the local area, _and career obserVation days ..... Career pr_pgrams inqlude resume writing and in- terviewing techniques. Campus career panels bring the cam,pus representatives from busines~. industry and government. Outside alumni and professionals coot ribute valuable information. Career observation days enable students to work for a day with professionals and firms not only · in the Capital District, hut also in Boston and New York. The Career Center,, in coor- dination with the Schenectady Hmnan Planning Services al)d the Campus Ministry, can teach how to establish valuable volimteer job experiences. The . office also can suggest ideas for internships in the area, some of which may receive academic credit. The Career Center teaches the student to relate his background to a particular field of interest. Once a career is chosen, the Career Center can help teacl'l students how to find jobs. \Eighty percent of all job openings are not advertised, so we need to educate students on how to find (these) unad- vertised openings, and how to market themselves ef- fectively .. \ TOTAL BUDGET ALLOCATIONS Spring Tenn Fall Term Amount Requested $106,249 $112,897 $219,146 Amount Reeommended $84,184 $73,806 $157,990 The above recommended expenditure of $157,990 is not the complete amoWlt to be dispersed for this year. The above nwnber reflects the budgeting of only 34 of the Student Activities accounts. The remaining budgets have been held up due to constitutional problems or at the request of the Finance Committee. BUDGET APPROVALS: Fall Terml982-83 Amount Orgailizatton Requested Big Brothers $4,930 B.L.A.S. 2,956 Ceteris Paribus 1,100 Concert Band 3;990 Concert Committee+ 15,771 Electronics Music Club 17,130 Fencing Club 573 Jazz Ensemble 3,240 Mountebanks 2,700 Political Forum 2,636 Pre-Law Society 765' · Rugby Club 3,147 S.E.A. 2,588 Social Committee+ 3,826 Women's Glee Club 15,270 WRUC 30.~\\ ·- Yacht Racing 1 1 876 • AmollDt Recommend eel $4,930 2.456 600 3,990 9,414 1,505 573 3,048 1,900 630 325 3,017 1,740 3,826 8,055 28,070 1,227 +The recommended figure reflects budgeting onlY for the Fall Term. . . .; .. ' .. l -• ._,' ... ,. \'i f' J. ~. +~· ....... ,.-_ ... 1~ .. - . . ' ~ . .) - ' > tification and restricting the distribution of alcohol to those of legal age. Andolina and the IFC have 'proposed a new party form, which IDUI!It ·be signed by the fraternity president, event chairman, and a Union College representative, !lnd the fonn has been given t<l the Student Affairs ~o~cil for . apprt?yal. The dectslOn ofwhet!teror not to admit those students under nineteen to parties would bel eft up to the i:ndividualfraternities, but Andolina said he woUld \feel safer\ if only those legally allowed to drink were permitted to enter. He warns that fines will be imposed on any group violating Union's alcohol policy, in addition to stiff penalties if State law is broken. If alcohol related auto accidents involving . minors who have been d!:inking at fraternities occur, Andolina is concerned because both· the College and the fraternity can be held liable. He .stated, \We will make every effort to en- force the law and contr-ol the distribution ·Of alcohol.'; To ward strengthening the iFC, And<llina . fe.els 'J'nl)re · publicity .is n:eeded .• Each fresh~ man must be cJ1nvinced. of tbe· benefits of · Greek life, and should be lead to other fraternities 'if one does not find him suitable for brotherhood in their house .. ·He advJ>cates rushing the entire freshmen class, and then selecting in- fividuals. Although it has grown since his arrival at Union, Andolina wishes to make th~ IFC a more positive force and more aggressive in unifying and governing its members, with just one strong representative from all Greek organizations in student government.... At present~ .. fraternities and sororities have separate representatives~ \I would like to see the IFC become a stronger, more unified force for both fraternities and sororiti~s,', says Andolina. ·Finance Commil1ee Meetings ·Tuesdays at 7:00p.m. 351 Fox All Are Welcome to Attend INSIDE~· .FEATURes pp. 3and 5 TEMPORARY PHONE. LISTINGS ARTS pp.. 6, 7, 9 CLASSIFIED ADS pp. 12·13. NATIONAL NEWS pp. 14-16 SPORTS pp. 17-20 --- .. Fe• - v ByFR . Ands Union, class UsuaUy student: mile howeve1 receive from l Univers comes phenom Girl. From fonnati4 York 1 Voice,\ comes Vals a~ referre~ search« ·These Encino, are. no' across t: qpon su virtues· prisingl~ transfer, Bacbelo1 Rela~ion Alongwi campus, language alien e \Omigo1 word). reporter such Va intervie\ steps in consumCJ The fit step is 1 Valspeal vocubul frequent: \like ... onemus1 astpepo Dad's .ar yot 'V ace call

the those the by event fonn roval. under fines if can \We en~ the the .. ' !resl'l~ the- and ~ in- a and with r~.s in At and like a and 5 -- OONOOBDIENBIS~ September 30~ l981 . ' - . _, ., . ., . . FEATURES .. Fer· Sure!! Vals At Uni9n? permission to use that aU Sample ConversatfoiU!I By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDE!t providin~ ~ectangle _of p~astic. Using Valspeak . Staff , . The car~ 18 , of co.1JI'se, m the name of the Val, Wlth_Mom and Dad footing the bill. Once acq11iring this . small, yet powerful tool, . one ~an . ac- complish step three, whic~ 1~, of course, to spend an unlun1~ed quantity of money on an~hing your fickle little heart desU'es; in particular clothes. Rem~ber, window shopping is . pel'IDltted ._.And so begins anotb~r year at Union, with. a new freShman class ~aking its arrival. US118llY, the majority of the .new student$ come from within a 500 mile radius. This year, however, Unionls privileged tQ receive five transfer ·st1;1dents from little known Encino University. With their arrival comes a new social creatQre phenomenon, that of the Valley Girl. . · only if large purchases are made first. There are other minor details (such as moving to Encino) for those who find the later three illstru.ctions easy to accornpli~h. However, they will not be m- cluded in order to make the transition as. easy as po:;sible. A partial glossary and ~Iilple dialogue has beep proVIded to help all of you get started today. PQ11ial Glossary ol Hi Andrea! (On dray alihh) Uke, weren't you-just ready to bag that 8:30? I mean, .... like, first we have to get up early, ..• ; and then.we have to be totally bored with that ~skanky prof. (Pause for other person's. part of the diScussion.) Uke. . -. yon know yer (you · are) sooooo right, Andrea. I mean I am just ready to bag these toenails. And, I haven't had . my legs waxed ~ three weeks.! I mean Ijust c~ t .cope. Now I'm forced to do 1t myself and it's soooogrody! Like I. was just ready to gag myseH w1th a spoon {spoooooon). Sometimes I think· I'm just such an . h AAI I I \ • a'lr ei:IU .• :. . . • . · • A Valle.y -Girl's assets . . . From such respected in- formation sources as the \New York Times,:\ , the uvmage Voice,\ and Moon U~t Zappa comes tales of the infamous Vals as they are sometimes· referred to-gfrls in constant searCh of the perfect peclicure. -These girJs ·.originate h·om Encino, California; wl1ere they are . now prepared to· travel across the country, expounding upon such vital issues as the virtues- of waxed legs. Sur- prisingly, all .five of Union's ne!V traMfers are here to get their Bachelors of Matrimonial and Rela~ionship Science (bMRs). Along with their presence on the campus, they bring their own language (\Valspeak\) full of alien exoressions- such as \Omigod'' · (yes, it is one word). Fortunately this reporter was able to contact <me such Val, and in an exclusive interview was told of the key steps in order to become the consumate. Valley Girl. ValspeakTerminology - ·F • ~ Ad t _Airhe~d.-o .. ·newithacran.· lum · .. oreig·. n . . . ven ures filled with gag...-.as opposed to . ~. .. · . gray matter. . . · · · Awe$ome--Indescrl bably The first and most important step is to integrate aU of the Valspeak expressions intoone's vocubulary, using them frequently, interspersed with \like ..... (expression).\ Next, one must possess what is known as tpe power ofthe credit card- Dad's .and Mom's never .. amazine i.e. Life as a Val in .generaL Bag these ( ·)-(The blank to be fnted in with a direct object; Fer Sure- Yes. · Gag Me With a Spoon- Nauseating; may bring on reverse peristalsis. Grody..,..,.Extremely -gross. 1 Just Can't Cope-Said when nQt being :able to dt:al with the situation. Omigod -Pronounce<~: qu- ickly, as one word. A notlcea~le increase in pitch of one's vmce occurs when pronouncing the 'god'. For us ancients, synonymous with \Oh my goodness.\ Skanky -'See Grody. .. By MICHELLE NOVELLE Traveland education go hand in hand. As everyone knows, when one travels one gains valuable knowledge from ex- perience. Travelling has been a part of the Union curriculum since 1968, when the first tenn abroad was established. In the words of Professor Anton Warde, \The college . formally recognizes the values of foreign stu<Jy.It encourages students to do their own things. There is always a compromise. These programs are open to all students at Union, not simply to history majors or to foreign he DUtch Hollow Pub is happy to announce reservations will be accepted Friday, Oct. 1, bet- ween 1 and 5 p.m .. for the first ''Dutchmen's Night'' Monday, Oct. 4, 1982 at the Pub for the 5:30 and/or 7:30 seating The .Dutth Hollow Pub win accept \Dutchman's Night 11 reservations between 1 and 5 p.m. on 'Fridays for Monday nightts mea I and on Tuesday between 1 and s p.m. for Wednesday 1 s night meal. Call 370-60·60 RESERVATIONS ARE REQUIRED TO PARTICIPATE, Please give your meal card numberi and I. D. number when maki_ng your reservation. Dutchmen's Night is available to 19-meal plan holders twice a month, and to 14 and 10-meal holders once a month You don't have to feel left _out if you're not on a meal plan. we~ It gladly accept cash reservations, too. Please give your student I. D. number when caUlng. DON'T FORGEil! MAKE RESERVATIONS EA-RLY_, BRING YOUR MEAL CARD AND I. D., AND PREPARE TO ENJOY YOURSELF!!! language majors. Every group should be a cross-section of the student body. The program is designed to make foreign study available to rank and file.'~ The first tenn abroad at Union was invented by a Gera man professor who had been visiting the art museums of Vienna. He then decided that the .students of Union should also nave the opportunity to study the art.ofVienna if they so chose. In 1968 he brought a group of twenty students from Union to Vienna for a period of ten weeks. The first term abroad had been officially established with that 1968 ex- · cursion. Throughout . the early seventies the program grew- from Vienna to Rennes, France and on to Seville, Svpain. Now Vienila alternates with a small town in German and Seville with Bogota, Colombia, giving the students a wider selection to choose from. Since the mid- seventies, tenns abroad have been established in Israel, and in Florence, Italy. The term in Florence is not a language term, but is an opportunity to study the Renaissance and its architecture. Just six years ago a program was established in Bath, England and shortly thereafter, Athens. And for the very first time ·ever, Union has an e:x;change program with York College in England, in which five students have gone to York from Union for a term while five students from York have joined us here~ Union, also participates in a summer abroad program. This program gives one the chance to study socialized medicine in three foreign countries: England, Sweden, and finally ten days in Poland. Due to the political situation in Poland, students were unable to visit the country last yeat ,. but the program is expected to be continued this sui'nmer. The professors feel that a short period in a communist country is the ultimate experience for students coming from democratic societies and therefore Union ·has arranged side trips for the, exchange - students to such places as Prague, Dreisden, and East Berlin. Every fall there are three trips; lteruies, France, Bath, England and Florenc~, Italy. During the winter, tenns are offered in Israel, Seville, Spain and Athens, Greece. Finally in the spring, Germany. There is a reason that more trips are offered in the earlier part of the year. Due to the fact that approximately 160 students participate in the various trips it helps to relieve the housing crunch felt during the first tenn of every year. The purpose of these terms are to enrich one's life through an intimate knowledge of a foreign land, a foreign language and the native peoples. Travel abroad gives one a dimension to an otherwise routine life. It's intrinsic value is worth more than can be described in words. One needs to trav-el to know of the actual worth and satisfaction. Besides what a trip abroad can give one personally, in this age of international in- terdependancy, it's very practical to be ~ither bilingual or wise to another culture. To have knowledge of a foreign language is especially an asset in the business world today. One becomes more attractive to those employers whose com- panies have overseas con· nections. In the United States there are not enough bi-lingual people to fill job vacancies. Therefore travel abroad is not only exciting but practical. For those students at Union who are serious about their travelling and feel that a ten week term isn't enough time a junior year abroad is an alternate option. A student must organiZe her own junior year abroad as opposed to the ten week terms, which are ready- made and easily obtainable. Fewer students participate in the junior year abroad program but it is still an opportunity offered at Union. Most students opt for ten weeks due to length. For example, an engineer will find that ten weeks away from Union will not hurt his major whereas fifteen weeks or a complete year may. Any student interested . in foreign study can contact either Mrs. Freeman or Professor Warde, both in the Hwnanities . building. The experience abroad is not one to be easily matched! _,

Page 4 · MENU: ¢1 ~ ·• .- •( ' \ .. .- '. ··~ -:..;.'1-··~· ···i' ...... ~ . ~ .... , .-... ~. ~f:.\';b·~· .;;\i·t\ .~ .. ,,_:,. .. 'J' . OONOOBDIEN818, September 80, 1981 Make Your Reservations Now for the Rathskellar October/est Feast on Tuesday, October 5th Original Octoberfest ·Beer Spatbarau Soup Graupensuppe mit Huhner~iein (Barley Soup with chicken) Choice of entrees: Sa.urerbrefen (marinated ~ell ·Kartof.h!l Salat I Hot German potato· sa.lad) Salad Bar With bessert: Aptel Sirudel !Apple) Kase Strudel '(Cheese l will be available for 70c a glass TherewiU be two sittings: 5-6pmand6•7 pm Wiener Schnitzel (breaded· veal ~utlet) Katoffel Pfann Kuchen {potato pancake) Schwein. Kotellette (Brea·~ed pork chop) Coffee ~ Tea Soda The· Rathskellar will be closed for business Oil October 9, 10 and 11 due to c1ea11ing and repair of the itoor. We will be opening for regular business on October 12th at noon. ' . Cost is (!nly $3.50 per person Call x6.124 between 9 om and 5 p.m. ............................................................................. NAME RES. 801 Temporary Phone Directory Uron, ·L\ K.. HH 010$ 6804 01 M!rto1. ~~~ph A. lS!F Abertl, JUis liZQ ·0075 6697 O.,tit, -lttsy A. l!Mw Abbett, J!llirf A. 614 Klttie 0700 317.7993 UlfU'Iffl~, Dtfrdri·'N. ZOlQ 'Abel, LIM R. 360F 0076 6510 'DIN!tn, Rithlnl M. 1600 Fostt'T Abelilln, Julfe Jl2D 1340 6658 ·o.. ,.,pg, Pe~ick S, ISJD ACker, Shtl1i [. 36JD -l!lJ 65?7 DlrbabtAIIo RObti-t S lDT Ad.IIISi, Jason -H. ]05W 0079 69ll Dt•;liKh. liUrtN:-t M. PSif.. 262 Ade~. -Stephen 2570 0086 ·611B Dt vtto, Ntc.Mel t. M1 209 Meson·, Ertc R. lOSS 0087 6946 Dt VrltJ, JOht1 R. l~SO A.dler-, £1 hst ft. Sli OliO 6499 DfPII'dh, Nol\·qjJ.le A. l07W· I Albanese, Bt'rrildet.te A. 1068 Vellft11 A11e. tl783 374-9407 Dt Gtorgto, .Peter J PSk Albert, bei»rAh l. 227W 0090 67t3 Ot Mto·, John H·. 425W I , Albert·, Eric- .l. ISSF 0095· 6487 Ot -~o Iober~ A. -1550· Alten, P1trtc11 M 40BR ·0120 -6659 Dt•tct, Thelitis 0'. U80 I Alonso, l1A C. JZ6R 0121 6801 Oincel, Jeffrt)d. 2101if Alm.n, Kenneth D. l54F' 07Sl3 6618 Ot fblfa, Taara £. 409H AI Ullin, R1Chln:l E. 1583 Awel'l.le A fiJ09 117·002'0 Doc:•, Stllcy L. l570 I.Rllcr, Jemffer l. SOT 1212 6781 Dohtrt,r. DtntQt P. U7W I A~erson, Radney V. ~ZlS 6970 01 Giorgio Petu PSK Andrevs. Sinh-'· lJQR OUIJ: 6816 01 ~.Joltn 425 N AndriolA, Joseph J. l~7D 011~ 6166 01 ~teo Aoblrt 1550 Af!thony. Ptttr J. 1160. Oli?Z 6693 Dlllllilllct .T~$ 1180 I Anzenbtrger, Mfchlel J. l250 0001 \S6 Otnc:ts Jeffrey 2Hid App1eto!'l 1 Suunne E. lDlR 0123 6409 01 Jrillfa r 1 Nra 409N I ~rtn, Lo~wtnce R. )J6F' 0125 6S&a ·ttx;e suey l!io70 Arkovtt.z. Hare S. 4DW OU7 '693C Ool'loerty Daniel 421W Arndt, ~len·B. 40lN 1206 6476 Dol•n Ja1nne OG Aronson, P1ul L. TDC 0834 6490 l))l•nsty Plul ll!W I . Atlas, Pet.tr S~ HH DISC ~3 Oon:l9tr .ScOtt !tM5 un1versl~ Pl. Atrubin, ·Afenndrl UIW 0155 6822 Oonnelly John l21W I At.tn, John A. 1053 Untnrstty 0849 l17-SS1l DDollttle Jeffrey 3650 'AVIlh, Mlui\Hn A. l1i 101 0011 64QJ l))rsty EdMird T0C 302 I Avery. Kent 361F 0379 676t OoiJglan Kltber1ne 4JOA Avnt. Jtnft 3240 0157 6785 Oresntr A.ly SOT I Ayle~Milr.th, _Chery1 A. 00D C&O '6897 ~yl~ llrbl.rl 2120 S.Jlard, Detior•h J. 2Uit 0160 6870 ()resner Beth Annr 4£Mfl I =:!: t:g.M. ~~ ~1:: ~~~ ~~~~-~ry :2 Union St. Apt. I S.retz, Julie L. JZtD oms 6785 Cklffy ot.ne 32JW I lln\ett M1chlel II, JU!F 0150 fi581 Duke An:Si-ew J21F Surett. ~S w. 21311 01411 6430 Dvne.r J~aC:Qu1e llSR SlrTy, .JoM E. 3230 0151 6435 tv~ar Jenrilfer 215~ I SuN:nt, W1111U N. 8 OOCM ·374·199' Dunn 'F11th 356F I htt.ag11a •. Dirfd R. 1629 Cltrl~e· St. 0917 374-3068 ()w)rk1n 11\4 I(S llttlglia, Pfllilfp S. Itt 0156 6792 .£uon Ill Ol.nald 1540 81~, Nlncy·H. 40U 0193 6659 Ebb1tt Oavtd. 205WH I 8t\\'!'!rten, ltth l'llrc11 SOT OSI36 6953 Ed,1UII LiM SuSin 259· DOD I Belch, Kl• £. 359F 0158 6706 Edwalrds .[J flabetli '265 000 B,ct:t Dlvtd·S. 2510 0166 6718 £d•rd5 R1c:harel HH 212 Bteker, LOri A. 217F 0168 6439 Eh1'1 tc:h. Abbie 3210 I leck.,.1h Joel L. 1ft 0199 6765 EhudtA Marc J60D I 8f:ckel'lltln. Jasepb E. 1560 0950 6725 £.1nste1n Mtct-,o~el 118F , let1 tnson, Sharon M. 30ZSH 0202 !!!! £1bA11111 Jeffrey 1120 I !ettel, Suzanne E. 420ft OlSJ _.w £1Un Glbrftl lST 211 !tlAII9fl\ l;'tlrt l. TDC 0204 AM- £1ko\!'ftt Andrew 22HI I BtlafiDff, Ptgty £, J59F 01!4 6706 El~~~gren Kurt 1160 ' lt11, R&ndt s·. 303W 0210 6!MZ El~tten Ktc:flltl 4025 I ltnder, Altsan P. l5ZD 0186 6900 &!p.to Geor:ge 1589 Yin Yranklln ·Beftld,!1t. II'QOk~ R. 205R 0187 6712 Engel Suun 00 I Benson 1 Stcvl!l·l. llOO 0!35 6591 (nJel Sustn PG 104 . llntley~ ... t..athfr1ne L. IIG 1014 6122 Er~~ez~ SuSI.\· 416R J llrc:ftt JJ11 E. 403tl U49 1151 ~rsktnt ~r.t1'1W . 102 Park pt'ac:t l .~.·=t.:.~~-~n.,... := ~\. ~~ ::;· ~~{'tJ'ea;t~ ·:u~- I .....,..., Elltri R. IIG 2Di 0005 6913 !lim. o!lh~ 3160 I ~~ ,Jtffr17. ~-· ·WH 113 OMl dOS Facur Dlvtd· 1130 . ltriDtfltz, ... Sus•n H. • 42tt ' ~ • otoJ f8ll FaCur Mfc:hltl WH 001 I ltr1Q', Slul A. PSK 0238 'SIS Faf•lak _,bert 3220\' ..._., Carol I. IIG 107. CM3 6516 Fait ·EdM 20$11 I llrl'ldt, Dlattl .J, PSK 25l!l ONt fif79 Farber. NtcNtl 222 Part.Piact ·-11! leth N. 311111' 02015 6730 Fomtll Kolly 2otll 0507 0554 0197 1450 o6oo 146B ·0009 001 0140 0569 0100 1481 0142 0613 0580 1497 0617 0619 0!00 1481 014:? 0613 0580 1487 0611 0619 0524 0509 0601 0589 0610 1503 0620 1G40 1628 0526 0633 5 1511 0636 0637 0641 0840. 0645 1252 0651 0617 1221 1520 0661 1217 11668 Q654 0557 0677 0663 11666 0671 0678 0682 15!8 1540 1541 01188 1184 - 0615 \'071z; 1561 om 1502 0591 0618 I ·III\Mtt n, A .. L. lOll G111.,Pte IOJ6 377·1229 FIJ5btl'l Suey 3170 ln'Mtl1n, Jou,tt I. 1033 Gfllupte OSil 374·5111 Fusltr iriftt 35JF I lttMtt1n, fllrk t. PSl.2G2 0252 6835 ~aagbt Elan 1065 Untvars1ty P1. ._tlfn, Mltcllol1 0. ~II 0253 ::;; FftiiiY Joo\\\ DG I ===~=: .;.cos:: ~: 2110 =· \21 ~= ~·!t ~~~ 0723 0734 0742 1572 ltrrtsh, l.&vra ·s. 0254 382-8211 Ft1n ru11 ZIT 219 -·· sw.on 1. 4zt5 om 6t17 ro111101d Eric mr :1~\1: ·= :: ·~.: :,~ r~f ~:~::i::-!:natMn rfso Block, Davfd A, ~:; m: =~ Ftldsteln flare 41UI • . :l~t. SX~\ \· 40ZW ozu 1742 ~:::.:.::t:::r= D ~. at ... MIN'IItte E. 4J6tl 1054 'SSB Ference Ill Stanley 2570 I . flack, ICitJo E. 211F 02&6 64111 Ferrigno Knln 4ZOS lohl, TfM M; OG 1095 6W Ftm~'\ Philip 'ill Bald, Pill\)' om 265 1099 6B99 Fftld 1Cflbtrl1 487 ·Mwtonvtlle loiiiCCt, Dovld N. WH 111 0!111 67(14 Flor LtH 411R Ia,..,., Edou'd T. 4295 0003 6977 Fll\llllrO Llur.i 218R Botsford, llot- w. 1120 0289 1697 Fink Lllll!'en 3240 0703 0743 0705 1!1 07119 (]115 - 0716 0717 0015 07\ 785·503S 0721 1231 0745 I Iotti, Otvtd·c. 4295 02!5 69)7 FfrKCh1aro Alfred IUD llovchlrd, Char1~ G. 42'05 0953 6618 FfG!'e'.Chrtstaphtr 110WH 0725 I lloul:k, lrfen M. ZIT 219 ll08 6727 Ftrst lilvfd 32211 07%7 IIOwrtft9, Patl\fcta £. 4£Mit 0297 6659 F1Khtr LOu 1st 323 Se.rd ·Place 1027 I BoWlin, N1chle1 F': 417W 0306 ~37 Fhher Donne 257F 0729 lo.l'd, Alon Rebert 404S 0218 6442 FftZ!III'IId lilvtd 30211 0747 I ·Bradley, Jfll N. 32CII 0307 HI! Fftzsl.,ns .Aillt 350f 0731 :~:!M..,~in~~stea ~l~ Seward Pl. ~~ ~~;s236 ~l::r;\~ 1 ~W g~~~ Brand, Sho\'n J. 1041 UntnrsHr Pl. 1113 Jt3-o700 Fttsclltr Judith 3520 0739 I Brl~, ,Sulln .. G. 32IJI 0308 ~9 Fo1S)I' Miry 1068 likndllt AVRlt l!5gg Brti'dt. Juon s. 1 Jat:Qon Place lll4 37:!-136t Folq LtA J58D 0749 l....,.n, lobert A. 3lfl'l 0319 6470 Forbts K-rley 210f OI!U lrenl'l!l\ Jotlf R. SOT 1407 6950 Forbes Rtrt 216F 0752 I Bre~sler, lj'1e L. 3231 1137 -~9 f'orbes Petar 320F 0407 lrfggs, .)ohanna tlii 2IJ7 0095 67&4 Fa,_.n Gnnt 11SD 0757 I ar.t99, kloberly 41111 ·6U9 Foster ol>hn 30511 om Brisson, Al'ldree H. 2SOF 0320 649\2· Faster Meftdy · lOSR 0186 I ' Brown, Andr'ew B. 362F 131% 6480 Fa 11 Mu .Tort 422R 11M3 1n1101, Stephen B. 363F lltt 6732 Fowler cra19 41311 0753 I IJrifclraln, Davfd B. 1160 038 6693 Fox Dilll1d 1583 AVII'III A 1600 8wddtnhlfgtn 1 Cfndy L. 000 1237 6433 Fr1n~ P~~ $tl 1~7 I e.t.eh:Jer., Carol A. !130 Olll 6573 Freder1cks Andrew PSK 254 1608 llu,..ll, Lfsa L. 407R 033Z 1832 Freid L fsa 111R W67 I Jurde, Laura t. l~F 03lJ 5510 Fr1PIIn Dlntil 2520 0169 lul'lltn, Christophel' L. 2135 0691 6957 Fif-n Httcholl till 106 . 0107 I lurnstetn. Ytlvte G. 229M <rl4D 6797 FrisCti Dtbarah 1031 Gtll~sft St. 1627 Burstein, Gale R. 419lf 03Jl 6399 Frost Ftfchard SH 1628 I Burst1ner, Mlrey I. J12H 033! 6923 f11rst kathl,.tne 224rt 0820 Byrne, SINh L. IICO 355 1553 li!l64 Glglfalll l.llildt 320R 0833 1 lyun, .Wtlly ZBT 217 03U 6757 ·G&goon lt!rk 21311 W79 I ~fW.~:c~:::~. il~ u: = ~!~~,~~t m~ 2 ::rk~ve~e rut ~r::;!e£::.,:a~ss• A. ~250 fa~ ~~t =~~k:~J!~thln if:rlbtt StrHt b}~~ Capltn, Daniel s.. 2510 0359 6451 Givens ~~rew Z21 ZBT 1655 carbone. Anthorw J. 162P Carrie St.. 1m 374-3068 Gebhardt Karen 202 DG 1672 C.rey, ..... InT. ~k 206 :s~ rs~ Gelb C.rl!li 20~ gm I ~f!!irSany A ... ~a. ~9Foot =~I ~g~ ~t~~t:~;::;ne if~ / ~~f ClfMY• • 1583 AVf:IIU! A 1309 377-0020 Getson D:IIWI 3120 \360 Clrnicl thy E. lOSS 0380 6946 Gl1mbo Joanne 401W 0002 Carroll. J~~tes fl. 32511 1314 6564 Glddf ngs Jolnna 215W 0847 Carru11. K!ry K. 201R 0381 6508 GiffOrd Clth!rtne 312H Hi50 g~~~~~=;e .. ~ · ~DR .: :~§~ glft:t ·~~~vn ~~~ i:~~ I Caspa. Htlene R. 406U 0385 6758 Gt11fagln SuR PSK 265 OJot Castelli, Llurence £. 351F 0287 6523 ·Gnun Blrry HH ~03 tsoo I Cernigl1aro, Jos&ph G. ZBT 222 0382 6&38 Ginder .Jason 3190 0312 Cbubers. John M. 1015 l1ntvers1ty Pl. 0508 370-5593 Ginsberg Plul 314F 1451 I Chi\Kiht-y, Slnjay 403V 0400 6824 Gtnzber:g ·Steven 3650 0067 Chi!II\VIMk Judt L. 305tf 1311 6177 Gtroux Hldaelle lOZH 1235 I Chess, dtffrey S. 3500 0101 6530 GfSt Philip 357F oe15 ·Chess. Mitchell A. ZIT 221 1334 6896 Gtuser Theodore 211W 0028 I Chiariuc:c:h ·David D. 327· SeM~rd Pl. 1857 372-3002 ~1ue Har.t~n 111» 0029 Chigas, Daphne Vess 309!'1 0412 6814 Glazer- Steven ZBT 219 OS72 1 C.,yu, dacqtiel)'ll K. ;~ OU3 68BO: Gtackner Cynthl• 1S ltnion Aveoot 1683 I ~{;:~:: ~~Ca F. 21 2f 003 ~~ 6~10~ ~t]g.:~~~:!n ~g:,~ark Place ~m Clouse; Peter UOF 0438 MBIJ Goldfarb Robert 2510 0831 I booll:o, Elolnt llG 208 1556 6993 Gol,..n susan ODD 1721 Coffey, Dlnfel V. 353F 0693 67.32 GoldS.tth 8rut;e 40311 0832 I Cobin, Hll llavtd PIPk A't'f!. 0955 374-8769 Go1da1th Hotflrd ZBT225 1722 I Co co~!.\·. ~rr ... {~·a. 351o 0146 6846 loldsteln Hetdf 352o 0900 ·~ - ,.. 211D 11142 5627 Goldstein Rachel 203R 0846 Cohon, Charles S. 414~ 11147 6§99 Goltber John Tlr~\ 327 ·s-•• Pl. 1593 I Cohen, Gll')l s. 718· B Hattft St. 1348 3774l727 Good catherllll 4illiM 1734 Cohen, Hylo S. OliO 263 0957 6144 Gotellck .JOseph 3600 0740 I COhen, Jeffrey E. ZBT 1351 6496 8orga Su11n 213F 0859 Coht!n. dodfe M. 418PI DS18 6869 Ga,..n, jeffrey 258 PSK 0911 I Cohen, LOOIIIrd A. 3230 0149 5135 Gotl1b .Joan 360F 1!871 Cohen, Rlche1 J. 21~ 1507 6552 Gottlieb 1tt.y 41211 0927 I Cohen, lobertl G. 1189 Lowell Rd. 1220 374·11~ Gottlf~b lo111thon PSK 262 0928 Cohen, S.hlron L. Sll 0148 51!19 Gouah A011lna 220R 0932 I Cohen. Sulln R. 103M 1047 6642 Goufd Ann JOlR 0942 I Collpfnto, Laurte A. 614 lttttle St. 1364 377\7193 Gould l<ith• 10211 0540 Cole, Stev-en E. 0452_ 6839 Gould.Stejihen 1065 1742 ~Je••• HIUl'.,n,A. 3580 0455 61 67 ~ 2 Gouse Beth 251F 0552 I Collins, .Tod 363F 1377 • Gray .o~ues 111 0873 Col•n. Erte E. 153F ot60 6479 Gi-11 Suun . 'lOSS'Park Avenue 1754 I ;~'?~~ ~bt~ A. ;~ 8'61~ ~~ ~~::::~ ::~. ~~D &i~ 1 COoper, .Jo .. than o. lllT 1383 6638 Grun Rudy 222 ZBT 1758 I Cooper, Lori 8, 31511 0548 6&30 Gr,.n ~ 1033 Gillespie 0970 Corkllo, IAUl'te d. 218R 118!1 11671 Grttno Josh 43011 0876 I Cornell, ~tffrtY ~. DC 0013 11613 Grunfteld.Oonro DG 203 0557 c. .... n. -r .. T. 10!6 11111vmtt,y Pl. 131! 382·1054 Greff Androo 41511 0983 I Co••llch, oiiMflll. 706 Soutll ~·•· 1312 393•1653 Gro,.·Ro~fn 301M 1!885 Covch, Sm1o 11. ?.IOf 0011 6431 Gro,.tngO!' Gtorgo 230W 0989 I Cout, -F. 1583 A\\'\ A 0021 317·0820 G<oo ... n Richard 1033 Gfllolple 1000 c .... , ShiRa A. 40211 0575 11666 Gu11bnoi Jintt SOT 1002 I C-f'll• II !Oro. D. 3110' 0577 5611 Gilttariu~ r.lerfe 3221! 0564 CZII'W, AM '· SOT 1015 6161 Gut01ilr ~iUl 3055 Ollll8 I CMtl'111:o ltoo II. 1101) 2~ 04114 6660 llabrr R- 1063 Unlverittv Pl. 1098 D Aftlo1a, -· ~. SH '1411 51~9 haft Fllfly ·10o1R - 1006 I D -lo, IIIIJ.r A, 21~ 1414 6161 Hafl41 B•nJ•In 42211 0089 OtMlo, Ifill ~- ruo 0578 6573 Handllr su .. n uaw 1022 - 6871 67115 &697 6775 f654 374·7156 6597 6!120 m~ 6!1111 6900 374·HW 6464 6431 6481 6631 6711 6121 6791 a41 6943 377o0!120 f!!l 6110 6178 6680 6427 377-9229 64\19 6872 6411 6430 6727 6875 374-799!1 382·2001 61181 6896 6'193 6619 6502 6413 6481 6658 6936 6677 6723 6487 &947 6110 6516 6541 6436 6465 11852 6500 6910 6731 67'0 381-!604 381-956(1 6907 6451 6897 ·6824 64!16 6543 ·6724 312-31112 = 64:M ·6679 6510 6789 6835 G463 6771 6852 6756 6811 6791 m.1m 6950 6451 6638 374~5911 61141 6567 ~ 6836 374·'5111 6729 6553 6753 377,5543 6&47 6754 6532 6135 Jelu Ptu1. S lli.ct !UuM• C l.tch.adl P,atrlda H lichardeon Ktry ll lc1Jin Llura ; Ro&!aaon l!dtn1 D locco JoJI!Ih L IObH:alll~ D1ltu Rdlhr lAlla X '21!11 116D 21211 ·- PlK '265 !llF ISSF II! 155F 2110 m•· UlP'nt Plact 4015 F321 QISf OtzZ 1071 Otzt 0116 .,.. 1075 0912 ot5i 1017 \\ 0959 I'll ·262 1100· 222 P;rt Place, 1907 .2011 0965 4215 0310 2011 Ot72 310f 1105 IIM6 Parii.,A.,.,_t 19415 30111 . 1215 IN 0022 314l· 1115 Ill Z04 1116 1105· Dill OllO 2Sfl 1119 FTl 1007, 311M 1912 1llC 0420 4~ I!Ml 2Cil ... 2070 10!! 213F D9M 153F 0995 l55f llJJ 1530 0997 CP 1211 3500 OHIJ lOU Parle AYMit 1.99$ 115F 1017 3630 1155 255r 2026 .,\' 11>20 3ll11 1131 1610 1045 205ltt 1169 ~ 2031 ~0211 1171 3015 }067 '3100 1183 P1tt Avenue 1185 111! 11110 J51F 1208 216'1 1205 PSK 12111 lOll Gtllesaft Streit2011 l~H 1~ 401H 0861 359F 11119 :1530 1123 3500 1129 40511 1131 •Of' 2045 2530 0513 ~m '.·.· .flfl 2570 1138 317;.s.,..rd Pl. 1238 n~ lW 4CIIR 1142 Sll 1264 4G511 lW Sll 2018 252F 1162 'IICO 352 2050 225 lilT 1277 3190 1197 2110 1223 IICO 2056 204A 1267 210F 2183 ~10 l~ 1053lloit¥Ors1\r Pl. 0579· 153D 1300 3130 l3Hi 365D 1335 41211 usa ODD 263 1265 1037·Gt11espfe st. 2093 323 Se.rd Place 1004 253F 1381 243W 1266 21511 1391' 3150 21198 1047 P•rk AvttNe 2103 3210 1'\1 3140 2164 000 265 2165 250f 1569 212fl 1490 22811 1510 351F 2173 21 OR 1485 2110 1536 31811 0040 32Gtl 1.938 212n 1573 000 265 1512 DG 105 1!874 01117 5491 SH 0271 1033 Gillespie 1268 m~ 1537 tiCO 0207 20611 0336 258 PSK 1555 3055 1711 • OG 107 1167 3HO 1712 113D 1743 252f 1765 1111 103 1598 ZBT 1602 2120 1779 FTI 091l5 32f0 1615 ZrFI DG 0599 32811 1804 312F. 1816 7113 Hlttte Str .. t 0638 lBT 223 0653 tM6' Untver~ft.Y 070Ii 410R 00911 317F 1887 '\ 1654 318H 1657 ZBT 216 1659 TDC 1242 Wll 212D IICO 418R 21211 410S 3160 253D 21l8S 1589 Van Vrar1ken 214D 1IH 115 1111. HH 3591) 41ZR DG 210 1664 0177 1897 ~ 0982 1684 1689 1950 mo 1101 1134 1719 1720 0061 1729. 1749 2038 1224 1783 115D 2128 ros. ztu ZIIT U86 DDD 2Sfl 18tl 211M 1!29 21tr 2137 lOJO aUluplt~ 197<\ 201 • 2'143 323 1i .. ard Pl.~ 13~9 257,. 2146 1551) 0194 llJII' ·0905 lOla 1!37 2J61t 0973 ~ur 1306 20llt UZ3 11110 - \\ au 1110 6U4 (OJol - 1417 16Z7 \\· 3!03·7222 6532 6515 183.5 3!Q·7Z2Z 671!4 5910 lc45t - 370-llilll .. !15 1522 6513 ..,, 17Cf I K6() l72-o781 18!50 1637 1795' 6737 6611 6434 647g 1607 ~i 377-!11136 6530 !81-9139 6513 6527 5782 69110 IJ26 .1560 6537 374·1994 6744 6961 657Z 374-8769 6771! 6523 6800· 6806. 377-9219 ~?.! 6106 6464 65!50 6932 382·9159 6662 ,r~. , ~718. • - 374-'6236 6937 6MB ~74 6522 69]2 61!19 6746 6854 6896 6541 6627 6817 6737 ~m 6641 381-9540 61546 6551 6455 6789 6444 ll!-6360 374-7156 6.546 6820 6677 6902· 381·!'639 6578 6901 6899 15492 670~ 6721 1523 6870 6627 6927 - 6702 6819. 6403 6499 374·5911 6650 6857 6623 5679 6753 6516 6641 6731 6745 6140 6733 6702 372-0781 657~ 6784 6933 6524 377·0727 5632 382·1 054 64911 6197 6801 6752 6733 6637 382-8281 6833 6702 C6864 6882 6776 69fi9 66118 6514 370-3883 6573 6759 6669 6538 6579 6191! 382·9735 6H1 6711 ·66J2 ~33 .... 663, 391-8239 6318 374-H 56 .... 67!5 6!5&3 &711 6873 &52S a.a•ilr•t• C!7h L loenfteU Jhl ·t •••!I' c.r•eft·tf .. .., Jr. J•• D ..... ,., ... ' le11 Ltt ·a 16uer Joha 0 bth JIIIU ·L btbMra PrMuic~ J· a...nontn llldlll 110117 J lilha btc: V lMea Jdf;ot' H 1111• ltuaa lu.off J•••iu t. luthforth Lotne A luuell J•• C Sldak Dhne H SeaGi- Nark !III&I'I\Mft Pt1111t S.lab ·LJUa S.lta.~n Alan i JS]F ,.,, !UP ISl 'llilt ·!It 210 v liDS liOD liiP \\' 3&io ~ION ,,.. \\ 2~a ru J12D itllW 2UP l''J' \\ ,,.. JUD 2241( \\ ]J1p 42,W ll)D 2QIV 310 1l .. 424l ~ J'ttt Salvaaao C&brl•ll• S hlvatore DoMld E S.I)·Mart~n 9tnnia• ltiM Kllic,4a. * {·Sa!lta~U 11 hi. Y laplr !ric J • f JOSII.' Savri.n. Dlnial S Sawehuk tli.btepb•r S Sa.~all• Kl!Uila ·1: Scudla..'ldc C .S~hachter ,_, P Sdtub•r• J~ ,, lf.!lttliw P · :khatd• Eat:hl'•an H Schick X.rea w Sehldf•i .... ron SChai4er Debra l' _. lkhn•t .. r !f-ica B khul-n P•t•r G Schut..n JnD H~ SClMirU JIM&! Schvtrt.:btrr Juditb L SChwtd Uta I Schwit .. r Nne 1 Scibilia lichucl J Sc:tortlno·tcai-y AM ! $collo Virturit !•ib-ert s .. n v s•~h O.Jtor•h J hniUiira !u1aa L sdt..,. oau•l'!i r Sba br[t~ Llu Shaftlty !Utn M Shapiro Laurnca Sbat& Petir Sltaw Uura, L Shap,.~ Dada& ~h•iUa. Dausll!la Sbath S~Mhd R Siefut i.a\1 1: Sil~arA; tfal.i Sib-.n lu•••ll Siqer tco·n Sippirl1' StiP~ID P StaltCm l.ahrt H Skh!:' st-•n E S..ltlt' LlurieA ~-&.Ub Tiarath,. J Sole A!kluv 5ol~a ,_, Sorkbl. Jill 1 star~ Joba. St••h ·Karen st.• t.ylO St•iMI~t Judith st-in Vivian st131rnhe-·r Joa® Stou Sc.ph1aie straaa .rohm Sut'lfal Klireil su~ki YUtchira r.-o1• tl!lt.._n 'tann•ftbaUII Marc T•itlabaulla Joycj rttp. Chdatin• lb~ton lilurec!l a 'rotiu Lsura tOl'ra DonM. Tucbiian Lauuac:• ~\k' o .. id ITRno· John Vai•ntl AbthonJ V•n. &ur•n Dlv~d iaa- 'Vorl.• Viil:h~.o. ~l•u• ~fi!ndh•h A!lthoar .,ada lttaq w.lcair Daniel w,.rd J• .. Vd'faQnek Di.ni11l .wab,tr Lona Wei.'nar i. .. tit Vabur btiift I Viiit:aen Sb1n1 Wtialen jenai fU' ·Nhdin John llhaalllt IP'ritdlla VhicahUut lith vb.a•r Kar~y vnuaa. uur Yuh••· Hlcttatl Zehl. Staphan Zipu11 Ste~hanh Zucker Richard Zuck•tt O.borah \ l5JD UID l57P uer lOU Cilh•,U !'t. \\ lOIN 155P }Otw 1041 .Park An. 350P 102 Park Plac• 1045 Uahtui~)' Jon Gilla1ph 301 W' 1045 l17D 157ii· .... ODD 256 mn 2510 .... MCO 352 ... •• 10lli P•rll Av•. 22611: \\ 426W S14M Zlf ll9P. 259 [)M) ., .. zar 111 312 , lOU HOP :J2lD 31611: 499 sarau.sa ST. 1600 Po11ttr· \'\ .)56Q .. '\\ VII 4021 1~7 !'Uk ~'18 1UIP .... 212 If uoa lS5P .... zo1a 1o8!1 lOli ... IR 159 ... 316W 111 Uaton Are ·0!520 212 ., ~1101 UrioaSt. '\ U6P \\ 111 ,,.. 314'11 314W .... \'\ 3lo r ,.122w ··~ JCI46' UniY1Jnit7 \\' 213 D 302 s:tt \\' 3S6P 1101111 U29 C.rrh St .,,., SOT .113 .. liH :U9J ... 1010 nllllli•p·U 104W 1118 U!U tU7 zn• -IS80J' '\ %170 2116 10!4 2171 IHI 1774 ll61 21., 2!16 zno :2191 2192 11&3 Hill 1849 2196' 219?· 2198 2199 1870 l21S 0100 .... 2205 2206 1978 210) 0106 U!l80 l~ll 2209 1435 2107 2210 , ... 2219 2220 Z222 ·lU~ 1898 z2is 0&39 , ... J903 22l:S 1327 ... , .. ., 1910 2185 , ... ,.., 1219 Zl42 1917 2243 22451 qu• 2248 1923 11!1)6 025'7 ,,. ~2:t7 om !265 IUO 0356 2271 2213 0406 1!40 0966 2,210 1260 0614 1953 .. .. ;,,. \\ lt72: ISIO 1300 01!11 1710 0228 1841 1982 2310 \\ 1917 lOU un lOOI 2)2) 0,,, 07U 19&, .. ., 2029 2034 20!1 .. ~042 om :ZHII 20, :z•o• 2077 2151 •on .... 2081 .... ,,. J ... I l1l'-ft714 .,.. .. ,. '\' ... , '6J4J \\ &670 6670 &5SO .6658 6918' 6981 \\ 67:12 67)1 .... 6816 374·1991, 618) )74-~62:3 &US 661JJ • 6~t7 .... 31'~U29 ,.,. .. ,.. \67 ifZO •a-t&:t.t 6411. :tu-,sao ll0-5S9J 371·-6310 .. , ., .. ... , •· 6166 6611. 6610 .... nta . ... .. .. . ... 174-1194 ,, ........ .. , 6667 ...,, 6721 6SIJO '\' .... 6t41 \~' e:S:z• .... .... 6'35 .... :Z:J1wQ175 :in-a175 6561 .... uu il\ 67l< 3tl•t6:t9 11441 6t20 .... 5S92· 17!1 6t't0 .... 1710 5119 65t0 ... , .... 1925 .111-·~ 6635 )l:t-1766 6~22 .... 6!17 6104 .• ..., 6924 6124 .... .... .... 66,. .. ,. 312,-l054 .. ., 6573 6161 \23. tm no-44\ 6l72 6119 6511 '\' MU .... nl-1239 .... I Ill !Mil, lllrforlt F, l24R 0581 6655 Hand lynn 321 W 0097 Da .. fJII!', - t. PSK 265 1'\0 !110 Ha .... tta Cll\Ol 4Dtltl 1797 I Devfs, \\\' E. 3WS · Olt7 6961 liarrfi Jtfchaol 3600 1042 Davis, lltllwt ~. 41GS , 0590 6969 llarr1ion Slacey 41911 08118 I n.yllto; 1M N. 213S OliH 6957 Holy Kathr!'n 365F 1056 :~ 6399· 6701 313-o700 6823 6505 313D 2149 ho•-,. louie& H 36,, lft44 .. ,. ·6!561 6105 6823 6!J15 6U1 . This isa temporary phone dit•e:torv. If vonn ~~ llstecfil_ :does not mean you will not be listed: in the ZBT phone - · Do \\\1o ~t!ooey R, 8421JIItoo.St. 1417 IINI1 Shlron 1041 Unf¥1l'llt)' PJ.. 1Bl9 I ll!O Folf<11i. !'al~f A. 1101) 256 0502 6.1150 Hoc:hchor BonjMfl\ 21811 0020 . 1 tl:l:;.. tf.a'o, ~ C&rr!o st. ~ ,. i~t~~ ~~~atl'tco ~~= ~f:~ .1 . Dol Oeo, Jlilf1 H. 11141 Unfv•m.y. P1. 1432 313-0700 lief..,. olonathoo ZBT 1061 I DolMn, Rloo ~. 41611 0530 61544 ·lle1fond SUcey 32311 0020 Dol llo;arto, Peter 11. Ill 2m 0534 6.116 11a1a illrf• SOT 11146 \:m w 1011n A!Mirw J a..n Ialli!. I •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 218W 06;19 directory. :Utr 2JS5 25lP 1U0 .Satu alarm .iUJ!!pe $tlowe1 p~pi mmd realizE life-wi. it'sheJ start ~ more privac of bon: house some I ran b1 finally behind asleep were~ thougt years and it' scho6l have-t• or Ire my SA mone:y need it two w1 \I neE sweatE that a should long b ptepru best ti As propel man I Union my he my st tlegro1 saying cited? gettin1 entere Colleg, where get tb ·outab R.A. ~ me, t<J room, mefOJ intom suitcliJ I !ntr' parent andlt is the

.... 6Sil ... , .... .. ,. .,,. .... .,,, 651) 6610 6610 ,6658 6918' &981 .. , 6172 67}1 ...,, • . ·~ .. , ,.,, .. , II ~ltM ~tu ·O?TS -0775 I • GONCOBD.lli1N$1S 1 September 30., 19$1 . ) FEATURES' Humor Me, College?! By MICHAEL l)EVJTO Staff living \Vith this year.'~ I_ th~n 'looked at my rbe)m an4 thought, \I :am going .to be sbaring thi$ l'i.ttle cubicle with another Union's New Nuke Group Saturday• September 11. My alarm clock. rang at 6:30 ~nd I jgm~d out- of bed mto the shower. As my blood started .pumping into my head, my mind began to wo.rk. I then realized that today, my whole life will challge. I can't· believe it'shere. I'll leave my ~orne and start a new way of living. No more good c9oking, no more privacy or· any ot}!er comforts of home~ As I walked out of my house I realized tbf.tt I forgot some pictures of my.friends so I J)ErS()n?\ . . . As so()n as I brought 'ever-}'tlling up, my parents and I w-ent to the Field House to eat, A.:fterlWICb, I entered a .. non~stop bur-day orientation program tllat tookusandshowed us untii we were totally disoriented. After!i couple·of meetings I said .goodbye· to . my par~nts. It wasn't the first time that I was saying !lOOdbye to -them but this ·was :different. It's -not like saying goodbye when. I'm going t() camp, or for a two--week vacation. After' two months or two -we~ks of vacation I know I'..ro cornfug home to my room, · my bo1;1,5e for the rest of the ·year. ']his time my. parents were .saying goodbye to me and leaving my new \)u)Jne\ and I '\VOil:ld visit then:i on my vacations. My riew room. ~s my :hom~; Union College is my 'h()tn.e; . By DAVE FITZGERALD Staff Recently there has been much talk of a nuclear freeze movement in this country. Now to counter such talk a group has formed to voice opposing views against. a nuclear freeze. The lntercontlne,ntai Bomb Movement (I.C.B .. M.) .founded by M. Xavier Missell,Js in his opinion, \The real voice of true Americans on this im- portan~ issue.\ ·The following information is what this f!eporter was able· to find out about I:C.B.M. in an extended top secret interview with Mr. Miss ell, The members of the organizat~o~ see absolutely nothing wrong with the nuclear weapons buildup. They feel that bombs are good for this coun- try. \If we can kill those Godless Ruskies in· about fifteen . minutes, l say nuk~em! ! Bombs mean jobs! Without them, there would be countless more of them lazy welfare slobs and guttless worthless kids begging for my hard earned tax dollars so that they can go to college to attend sinful, drunken, drug- ·filled ;sex orgies.\ When asked if there was popular support .for his organization Missell said, \There sure is. The whole local chapter of the Ethical Plurality has joined,. as well as a famous and powerful \ex\ B movie actor.\ \Don't get the wrong im· pression of us, we like the bomb but we like to have fun too. For the l!leil, we have target practice every week so that we can kill anyone that tries to get into our bomb shelters. For the ladies we have quilting bees (It is cold and damp in bomb shelters) and classes teaching Home Remedies for Radiation Sickness. And for the kids, we have picnics to our assigned evacuation host cities. Basically Missell feels that I.C.B.M. should be a social club that also makes its views known to the public and our leaders. \If all the good things about the bomb are known, everyone will want one of their own. I bet the first person to own a bomb on your block will be admired and considered a real American.\ ran back· in to get them. We finally got on the road -an hour behind schedub:!; I tried to .fan asleep but too · many thoughts were going through my mind. I thought to myself, \All these years of ·preparing for college and it's here.\ All through high school everyone kept saying, '~I · have-to really do well thiS year or I really have to score high on mySATs or I better save a lot of money this swnmer because I'U need it for college.\ Then about two weeks ago everything was \I need some pants and these sweaters and I need this and that and what kind of sheets should I buy .. What's an extra long bed?'~ Everything was in preparation for supposedly \the best time .of. my life.'' ,Ask Th~ Expert Dr. Norman Birnbach Expert in Student \Affairs\ When asked about the popularity of the freeze movement Missell said, \The idea of a freeze is not one of the general public, it is one of those liberals and environmentalists who have gone and ruined this country. All the talk about how the earth will be devastated iS untrue. When I saw a bomb test while I was in the army, the land ·didn't look too bad. Actually it lMked like the area around Mount St. Helens volcano. Hell, those en- vironmentalists want to make that place a park. Radiation isn't that bad for you either, because in the Army all they did was brush us off with a broom. The biggest lies being told come from the doctors. They are all quacks! I nave been going to doctors for years to have my cancer cured and they have not done a thing for-lJle.\ As we passed through the proper exit off the Thruway the man handed us di,rections to Union College. At that moment . my heart started. pumping and my stomach felt Jike a bat- tleground. My parents kept saying, \Are you getting ei- . cited?'f but what I was really getting was nauseous. As we entered the gates of Union College a really nice girl told us where IllY dorm was and ho:w to get there. Then I went to find ·out about my room and- the head R.A. and another R.A. greeted me,. told me how to get. to my ~ room, gave me a key and asked· me for ten dollars. As I walke.d into my room loaded down with suitcases, I met my rooiDIJlate. I introduced myself and my parents to him and hi~ parents and I thought to myself \so thls is the person I am goip.g to be A Bitsy's Law: The level of attractiveness of one's date is directly proportional to the level of afcohol in one's blood! ... Dear N<~rman, 'What should I do? I think all ·ilte girls on my floor hate me. :rv£afbe they're jealous because I \Wear a size 38 DDD l:)ra. Do you tbink 1 should have breast red11dion surgery to alleviate .friction'? I feel inferior because everyone judges me just by the si2e of my breasts. Please help, I':m really depressed. A Busted Ego Dear Busted, B~fore you do anything drastic, why don't you come over and I'm sure I can make you feel · better. Drop by anytime. Dear Noiman,. · I don;t know. what to· do. Ever since I've gotten back here at Union, I can't seem to con- centrate on anything for ex- ' Saturday Late Night Partying? ' MUNCH OUT AT DG! Sat. n.ight-Sun. morning.l a.m.-4 a.m. Pancake & Sausage BREAKFAST to raise money for sight conservation and aid to the blind • Tickets on sale during the week. or at the door. DO~'T MISS Ill TUTORS- AVAILABLE Having problems with a course? Having dif- ficulty understanding a problem or c.oncept? Maybe you need help ... ret a tutor lend you a hand! - - · \rhe Academic Opportunity Prog.ram (A.O.P.) provides Cl tutorial service for aU students- 'Fresllman, Sophomores, Junior, and Senrors. 'r·or more information and-or an available list of competent tutors for any subject area, .please see! - . - Patrice Bradley AOP. Offi~e .... Bailey Hall-:-101 . -. ANINOUNCING You can- be the first :to own .Pt»S1ERS AND PRINTS . · Nev~rbefe>re presented at Union: Sar~ Moon,. Mos.kowitz, Peter Prints, Paulnik, J.ohn Rucci1 1-larvey Edwards, Avedon ahd more OctoHr ·~~-·1981 Stnusslounge · 10 a:m.-5 p.m. Presented by Union ~treet Art Gallery~ Frame Shop tended. periods of time without it \melting away.\ I don't know why but reality just seems so distorted. Maybe it's the pressure and tensions of being back at school but when I'm in class, the \walls seem to be breathing!\ What should I do? My work is beginning to suffer! _ An Assid~ous Student Dear Assid., Your problems do seem to be mushrooming. Beware of ... Dear Norman, It's the second week of my freshman year at college. Already I'm a week and a half behind. I have to read a 500- page Poli. Sci. book by tomorrow and I haven't even \purchased the book yet. Not only that,. but lwas f!upposed to have read War and Peace and have written a ten-page paper - due yesterday. Will things get better? · Swamped in South Dear swamped, No. To conclude it should be said that the members of I.C.B.M. feel that their beliefs and message will mushroom across the country and that the American people will be voting for America when they vote for a supporter of the, bomb 41 November.· · Notorious ••• Continued from page 7 Sun\ -The only American band that matters. Beware, this is raw, energetic and un- compromising music that sprang from the L.A. punk scene. Yeah, I know you think llicky Springfield plays rock and roll, but give real music a chance~ XTC - \The English Set- tlement\ - Step into the brave new world of Andy Partridge. This may be the most ambitious X'l'C release to date. If you can think and listen at the same time, try this. Electric City -Comics & Magazines- - - 1704 VanVranken Ave. (corner of Mason & VanVranken j'ust 4.blocks from campus! ) Featuring -. new comics: including CameJot 3000, Moon Knight and other Dire<:t-only books. -back issues: over 25,000 in stoc:k. -fantasy magazines: Elfquest,.Cerebus, Heavy metal -alternative publications -underground comics: A FULL LINE , PHONE 377-1500 Hours: 12-7 Mon.-Fri.; 11-6 Sat. ' '< - . •. ~ ..... '4. ~ ·~ ·~ ~ \ ..... ~ l' •• ,.; t *

·i Page 8 OONCOBDIBN$18, September 80, 1981 THE ARTS ,, a On Film By GLENS. KRVTOFF MALL ·CINEMA. Fast Times .at Ridgemont HJgb - Your basic \sex and drugs in high school\ trash. R. (++). COLONIE CENTER CINEMA.· . Friday tile Wh, Part Ul iD 3D • ., Another mindless, gory movie. The use of 3D, however, is superior. ,R. ++ ). FOX COLONIE, Wolf Rd. AnOffleer and a Geotleman- The story of a man with nothing who becomes a jet pilot officer candidate and faDs in love with a local girl. Starring Richard Gere~ DebQrah Winger and LoUis Gossett, Jr. A weD made love story in the classic style. Gossett is sure tQ get an Oscar. R. { ++++>~MOHAWK MALL & NORTHWAY MALL. , Garp .·~t George Roy Hill's ac,laptation of John Irvin1fs best seller. Starring Robin Williams, Mary Beth Hurt and Glenn Close. An outstanding fUm experience. Williams is sur- prisingly good. Glenn Close gives the performance of her career. An Oscar for her. R. (+++++).CINEMA 7, Rt. 7. These. are the current films pl,ying in the area. Ratings are as follows: . (+++++ - MUST SEE!); . <++++ - Good); (+++ - Worthwhile); ( ++ - .if you've got nothing better to do); { + - only on pain of death) Anoie - A moderately disappointing version. of the· hit B'way ~usical. Alleen Quinn as Annie IS cute. Ann Reinking is poetry in motion .. The rest of the cast - Carol Burnett, Albert Finney •. Tim Curry, Bernadette Peters - are adequate. PG. <++). NORTHWAY MALL CINEMA. •I Diner - Set in 1959, .it's the story of a bunch of former high school buddies. Written and directed by B_arry . Levinson. Guys will be more interested than girls. R. ( +++). COLONIE CENTER CINEMA. E.T. -Steven Spielberg's oox~ office hit about aliens, childhood and friendship. Superbly made, highly en- tertaining film. PG. l+++++). NORTHWAY ·Arts Calendar Oc(. a-Purcell's opera KING ARTHUR perfonned by the Albany Pocket Opera. Presented at the SUNYA Recital Han. Sun., 8-3,. 2:30p.m.~- · . 1 .• · Oct. 5-lD-ANNIE. '.lbe Bway. musical. Proctor s Theatre. 8 p.m. (Also lo-8 & 10.1o-2 p:m.). $9.50-10. 346-62CM. Oct. 8-DA VID TANENBAUM, classical guitarist. SUNY A Recital Hall. a J>.m. $3, students. 457-41606. Oct. 8-9-AMERICAN BALLET THEATER II. SUNYA Main Theatre. 8 p.m. $&-stud. 457.aro&. Oct; ll·D-AMADEUS by Peter Shaffer. Proctor·s Theatre. 8 p~m. $12, $6, 20. 34U204. . . Pet. lf-17-EQUUS by Peter Shaffer. Special Guest Artist Peter , ~ett as Dr. Dysart. SUNY A Perf. Arts Center. 8p.m. (except : -~.1 • 7 p.m.) $3.50 students. 457-8806. . ~- 19-13-EQUUS. See above. • • • And on the Rock Scene HEART 1 the Seattle-based rock group, who&e music ranges from the hard-driving beat of \Crazy On You\ and \Even It Up\ to the .soft lyricism of \Dog and Butterfly,\ will be In Buffalo Memorial .Auditorium on Oct. 13 at 8 p.m. \Private Auditions\ is their latest l.p. from the group led by Ann and Nancy Wilson, who also write and produce tbe majority of their material. JOHN COUGAR, the first recording artist in 18 months to have . an l.p., \American Fool\ in the no. 1 spot as well as two singles simultaneously in the top lo-u Jack and Diane\ at no. 4 and '!Huns So Good,\ currenUy at no. 8, will open for the show. Tlckets are $tUO and $8.50. Aval~Qble at Central Ticket Office, 210 Delaware, Stage 1 and all CTO outlets. _ JUDAS PRIEST, the heavY metal band whose aggressive,. straightforward style has remained unchanged over the years, comes to Buff.to Mem~rial A.mltoriiDil on Friday, Oct. 15 at 8 p.m. \Screaming for Vengeance,\ the group~s latest.l.p., is at no. 23 on the charts and cOmbing. . IRON MAIDEN, 8nother heavy metal band who opened for \Foreigner\ and \I.Dver~ is· the opening act. Tickets are $9.50 and $8.50 and are av ble at Central Ticket Office, 210 Delaware, Stage 1, llild all CTO outlets. t'~i~ ~--.WE DELIVE~ 374-1988· ~~ ~S£, 464 State Sf. 1 Schenectady, NY Still unreviewed: . Tempest ... Nbrthway and Mohawk Malls. · Das Beot- Fox Coloni' Twin. Amttyvllle U • 'lbe Pos\silou -Mohawk ancl Northway Mtms. Lady Chat$erly's t.Gver .... Northway Mall. ' MQments In hlstory•-Giee Club '81-'82 Glee Club to Perform The Union College Glee Club, founded in 1869, is now entering i!s: twentieth ye..- under the master direction of Professor Hugh Alien Wilson. RegiS. CoUfi!ge Choirs, and a Parents' Weekend. Concert in the spring; The Glee .dlub will also be,performing at Smith and Wellesl('y Colleges this year. vard and Amherst Glee Club$, to perfonn its solo repertoir~ at the Nation~l Convention of the Intercollegiate Musical Council in April. · · The Club's first performance of the '82-'83 'se8S4>n is a Homecoming Concert, which- takes place on October 22 in Memorial Chapel. other· on- campus. concerts .. ihclqde ex- changes with the .WeU'eSley and A Spring Tour to Washington, D.C. has b('en scheduled, featuring concerts ·at Ford's Tbeatre, HI¢ College, and The Nation21} Cathedral. In additiqn, the Union Glee Club has been selected, aiong with the .Har~ New members are always welcome,. and no formal choral experience iS· required. Rehearsals are Mondays 6:30. ~:00 and Wednest:lays 8:00..9:.30 m Arts room 202. :fREE PIZZA DAI·LY F·REE DRI'NKS DAIL Yl '. '- WRUC is giving away over $700 in prizes in the bext 5 weeks But you've got to L·ISTEN TO WIN! Be surd. to • ._ten to WRUC on Saturday starting at 1 p.m. wllen we will carry· Dutchmen Football • • • live! · · H~ar the action as it happens as the undefeated Dutchmen bump heads with Albany State · We're ·wRUC, Your Alternative Radio Station. •• •• •• ·~· ••••••••.. OCTOBER· .••••.•••• . ~. . ..• • '(Campus Paperback BestseU~ e .~ . . ~- • 1. Th~;t World According To Garp, by John Irving. e e (Pocket, $3.95.) Outrageous story of T.S. Garp. • • 2. Real Men Don't Eat Quiche, by Bruce Feirstein. e e (Pocket, $3.95.) A hilarious guide to masculinity. • • 3. Thin Tiilghs In 30 Days, by Wendy Stehling. e • (Bantam, $2.95.) How to tone up and thin down. • • 4. CuJo, by Stephen King. (NAI../Signet, $3.95.)' • Another tl:lle of horror from the master. -· .··' 8. What Color Is Your Parachute?, by Richard·Nelson Bolles. •• (Ten Speed Press, $6.95.) Career and job guide. _ ••. 9. The Cinderella Complex, by Colette Dowling. (Pocket; •• $3.95.) Uncovers the roots .of women's inner conflicts. · e 10. Color Me Beautiful, by Carole Jackson. e e (Ballantine, $8.95.) A how-to book for women. . e ~·········~··········: ! :( New & Recommended ) : . - - . 8 Letter To A Child Never Born, by Oriana Fallaci. e • (Washington Square Press,. $2.95) The story of a woman e • coming to grips with pregnancy and the struggle betw1en •. society's demands and her own desires .. e New Rules, by Daniel Yankelov,lch. (Bantam, $3;95) A study e e of the cultl.mll and economic forces charting our future. e e Working Wardrobe, by Janet Wallach. (Wari:ier, $8.95) How e • to more thai;) triple your wardrobe with two-color • coordinated dressing. . . .. . · .. . -:. A-TION 01' AMI!IIICAII llilli.ll!!&llltlllA~ AiltociA\ilo!l 01' COUI!CIII iiTilMI : •••••••••••••••••••• ln·1 In teD eoUege just all It offet even b4 yoll ifJ.tJ sbar~ l .Intel forum. profes1 formal lecture topicsiJ . Topics include' God,\ Purp.o Engine Major] versus \Soviet Cabarej rninues · speaket Amer will a · forman1 of the l of the Friday, day, Oc TheS sponso1 pear an' dance c reperto romanti contem dance. Amer] was f1 Englunc with Bal to bring .that c• commo(J technic< Americ~ fulfill t1: the reputati• toureds] Ballet Tl on the s }972~ the perform, Aid • ContinuE \Difh dealing different \Some granting students think wi making: others a and p.u 1 WI ye M fr< Te de th~ fhE of en! wil

. u a . Club$, at of the . . il .. 8:30- OONOOBDIEN.SIS~ Septembe,- 30~. 1981 Page 7 lntellectu~tl Cabaret at Vnlon · eoUege .oft~rs you more than just a penny for YOtlf thoughts: It offers you .pretzels, soda and even beer. All that is asked of you it; that you rela~, listen, I,Ulq share your t}loughts. .Intelle<:t~ld ·Cabaret is a forum in Which students and intere~t in t~ topic aild who can explam· more clearly the aspec~s, of .t~e topic. FoB owing this introduc~ion, mernbers of the audience are invited to ask questioiQJ, make comments, or suggest t}leit ow,n ideas. ,; § I THE ARTS . ' Proudly Presents- ' professors are: able to in- formally discuss, without. lectures , . or grades, current· topics in a variety of disciplines. Topics of last Year's Cabarets included \The Existence of God,\ \What is Art and its Pur.pose ,'' '' l3ioge.netie Engineering,\ \The Moral Majority,'' ''CreaUcml$m versus Evolutionism,.. . and The Intellectual Cabaret is organized by-:a cor~ ·committee 11c11der the lel!dership of cO-. c~rpersons Chris. B~gin and Karen Norton. Announcements for the first cabaret of the term will appear shortly and au members of the . campus eommunUy are invited to at• · ten(l'; If yo~ are interested ·in l)econUng Jllore involved and helping to · plan the cabarets, pie~ attend ~e· organization Meeting on Tuesday, October 5 at 9:00 p.rn. in tbe Cabaret' Room across from the mail rooin in Carnegie. SOUTHSIDE JOH,NNY & THE ASBU.RY JUKES. . With Sp•cial Guest Gary U.S. Bonds . \Soviet Foreign Policy.\ l!:ach Cabaret begins With 30 to 45 , minues of diScussion by invited speakers ·who .have a special I Albany Ballet . Ame.-ican Bi!llet Tbeater' li will appear , for two . per- formances in the Ml;lih Theater of the Perfonning Arts Center of the. University at Albany; Friday, October 8 .and Satur- day, October 9~ at 8 p.m. The Student Dance Council is · sponsoring the Albany ap- pearances of this youthful dance company that features a repertor,y ranging from romantic and classical ballet to . contemporary and modern dance. · American Ballet Theater n · was formed by Richard Englund in 1972 in association with Ballet Theater Foundation to bring quality dance to cities .fhat could no longer ac- commodate th13 financial and technical requirements of American Ballet Theater. To fulfill that need and maintain the senior company's reputation in the areas it had toured since its founding in 1939, Ballet Theater Foundation took on the second company. Since 1972, the smaller ensemble has performed in 161 cities in 41 Aid ••• Continued from page 14 \Different - schools are d~aling with the problem in different ways,\ says Martin. \Some are going ahead and granting tentative awards to st~dents. based on what tpey think Will happen. Others are making temporary loans. Still others are admitting students and putting theiJ;. tuition states and 3 foreign countries. AU 15 dancers are of soloist rank and calibre. About one--third of the cmrent members of .B.arysllnikov's American Ballet Theater began their careers with ABT II. Other alumni now appear with the .Joffrey · Ballet, the National Ballet of Canada, the New York City Ballet and the Alvin Ailey American Dance Co:rnpany. . 1\BT II is proud to offer audiencl!!s their fit'st view of the coming generation nf possible dance greats, a chance to see the stars of tomorrow today. The company has been priased for the professionalism of its . young da~cers, its high production standards and established re,pertory that make American Ballet Theater II unique in the dance world. Tickets for both per- formances are n<>W available at · $10 reserved seating with senior citiz.ens and students admitted for $8. For more information, call the University Performing Arts Center at 457-8606 or the Community Box Offices. payments . on hold, until they know whether or not they will receive funding!' Florida State, for one, has created an emergency fund for students until the crisis is over. \We've really stuck our necks out, which really scares the hell out of us,\ Marsh says; \I just hope the feds come through.\ Until they do, administrators say they have no useful advice to offer. ~ByVADIME.· Staff ~f ~ou read my last con- tri-bution to the cultural diversit~ of. tms ·paper, yQu may have noticed that lam a music reviewe~ (~ong other things). If yo~ did not read mY weekly eruptiOns. of wisdom, maybe you got a 'hint from the \New ~ted, and Notorious\ logo. If you have seen the Concordfensis before, you may have noticed that my articles always appear in the Arts section. I guess that makes music an important part of our culture, right? On the other hand, if you have never read Concordfensis; you are probably eith~r a freshman or a pr~:med. In this case you may skip to the next page because you should not waste time on such trivial matters. Nevertheless, if you are in- terested in new rock music, I humbly suggest this list of 10 most unappreciated releases of the past several months. Adrian Belew - \The Lone Rhino\ - Master axeman from King Crimson, The Talking Heads, David Bowie, and Frank Zappa just released- ~ first THE. DAWN ,Of THE ATO;M.IC. AGE Prof~ G_arland · Branch ' Forty years ago the ti:st sustained ~ucle_ar reaction was achieved in the West S~and~ of S'tagg F1eld at-the Umvers1ty of Chicago and within three years the f1rst pudear ~ombs were exploded.· Dr. Btanch joined the Manhattan .P~o1ect a.t Ch1cago as a research ass.istant upon graduation from c;:ollege m 1'943 alld later moved with the Project~ to Oak Rid Tennessee,. wh~re h~ was a minor member of the large team t~!t develo~ed the f1rsth1g~-power.nuclear reactor. Dr. eranch will recount the exc1t~men~, eu.phona, an9 Intellectual chaJienge of the early days In the Atom•.: Age a~d the growmg debate over the necessity·_and mo.ralit ofd~velop1.ng nu~lear w':apons. Th~ mora.l and ethical problems faciny e\!gmeers and sc•enhsts m devel.op•ng and applyh'lg any new technologg Will be addressed. r · - · Y Tu:esday, October 5th 8:30 pm SS 016 free Admission spottsored· by I.E.E,E. TUE'SDA Y, OCTOB.E R 26 AT: Proctors Ttteatre Tickets on Sale Soon solo effort. Adrian's 4-year old daughter is featured on one of the cuts. Get this album and hear the most innovative guitar work since Jimi Hendrix. Fleshtones - \The Roman Gods\- authentic 60's rock and · roll, reminiscent of early Who and Rolling Stones: This garage-style rock is simply irrestible. · The Lords oUhe New Church- - This album features Stiv Bators, formerly a singer with the Dead Boys and Mr. and Mrs. Bators,. Hardcore to the maximum. Need I say more? Joe '~King\ Carasco - The lastE.P. contains four fun-filled songs. File under Nuevo Wavo. The self-crowned king 'of Tex• Mex has done it again, and he wants you to help him pay off the recording bill. Buy this albwn and you can win a date with his sis'ter.G1rls can win a date with Joe h1msel£. Details inside. The ~ang of Four ... ''I Love a Man in a Uniform\ - Heavy duty rightist politics never sold well in the U.S. Even the Clash ran into trouble when it came to \Sandistal\ The new Gang of Four member, Sara Lee, provides the thick bass that does wonders for most peopl~. If you can't dance to this one, you are dead. Right on, comrade. SpUt Enz - \Time and Tide\ - - I have never been able to understand why no one listens to this band. Everything that comes from Australia does not sound like AC-DC. \I Got You\ was a hit a couple of years ago, and the band has continued to produce innovative and highly intelligent pop. Squeeze - \Sweets from a Stranger\ .... Squeeze have been very popular on campuses .ever since the U.K. Squeeze, even more so with the release of \Argybargy\ and \East Side StO!'Y.\ Last year's per- fonnance at SUNY Albany was very well received. The buck seems to have stopped at the new one. Too bad. The Who- \It's Hard\- This one is for all the girls. Absolutely positively the best Who album since ..... (my memory falters). The kids are all .right, and I hope everyone notices. X .,_ \Under tbe Big_Blac.lt Contb:med on page 5 ACHILLES RINK ANNOUNCES: A NEW SEASON OF \ Public Skating . starting SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1982 PUBLIC SKATING HOURS: . MQnday thru Friday-1-3:00 p.m. Saturdays & Sundays.--1-2:30 p.m. & 3-4:30 PRICES: . Adults-12.50 <;:,hildre~ 12 yrs. & Under-$1.00 U.C. Students with 1.0. (wkends)-$1.00 (Mon~-Frl. 1-3 p.m. Skate-Free) RENTALS: Genera r Pub I ic--$1.50 U. C. Stvdents with I. D.-75c ,p.m. While skati~g at th~ Achille~ Rink, Please be . sure to stop 1n at the· Laces & Blades Pro Shop. 11 Laces & Blades se.lls a variety of -sport equip. . me1:1t as well as new quality skates to rent. f I I I f I .I I. I I 1 i ! i t I ! ! I I I I 1 I i i j i i I I '

• Page 8 .EVERY·.·, TUESDAY . . NIGHT IS UNION NIGHT at the new Electric Grinch ·Country Club FREE BEER . FOR ALL UNION . - Once .prepar.i on ano onlY w product talente< under t the pl~ new dr; author· Beninat Union t App.r REBEl. Emma Jewish: one of leaders an~chi: TH STUDENTS from 9-10 pm i 2 for 1 drafts from 10-12 I Live entertainment with -- · , Liam Falner Sunday __, \Metrobop\ Tuesday .....,... UNION NIGHT · Wednesday - ''Bootleg'' Thursday-- Ladies Nighf·free drinks ll-12 pm Fr.idoy _:__ HAPPY HOUR BEER BLAST $3 aU you can. drink with live rock n roll Friday- and .Saturday·~ the Best Rock n Roll·in the area Electric Grlnch C.C. 154 Erie Blvd. 346-2280\

Page 9 1 ' ,. I. . T \ \ , ·. Mountebanks: Rehel, Rebel [New On TheCharts:J By.JODI COHEN Staff Once again, Mounteban~ is .. preparing to raise the curtain · on . another performance. Not ·onlY will the upcoming ·Fall production showcase a ca~t of talented actors, it will alSo be under the capable direction of the playwright himself. The new drama is REBEL and the author~di·rector is Oaro Beninati, technical director of Union theatre. · App.ropriately named, REBEL is based on the life of Emma Goldman, the Russian Jewish immigrant who became one of the most influential leaders of the international an~chist movement, at the turn of the century. Goldman visual effects will include the· was one of the fir$t women to use of multiple projections, witb champion women's rights. She the stage floor itself as a spoke out strongly with projection surface. Makeup wUl. Marg~ret Sanger .on the birth be as authentic as possible so control issue, and during a time that the actors look like the of ·strict moral . censorship, people they are portraying. claimed that a woman has an \Musically the show . will be undeniable right to her own Fich,\ Beninati says, and will body. Goldman was al13o known make use 9f original mll$ic as as a strong advocate of the well as music. of the period. The rights of labor workers and an lighting concept is no less in- active opponent ot the draft novative;. ''When· I wrote the during Worlc). War I. It· was the play,\' Beninati · exj}Iains, ''the e'fPression. ofthese views which effect r tried to create was to eventually led to her ' depor.o- have the audience experience a tation fromthe United States at nlm · performed live in the the .age of 23. , · theat~e. . \From a technical point of One of the first steps. a view, the show .is an ex- director must take towards perim.ent; a, very co~plic.ated~ , pres~nting any piece is casting. experunent, $8YS Berunatl. Its Ih this case, the selectjon was particularly difficult, since it is important that the actors . ,. J:-esem.ble their real life coun- . tel'parts. The .play features 15 tn-eq ~a ~4 · w9~en; ;irtcl~din~ ·;,, i4 · :\ ·L?ra._~~~!Jn~ · Jodf'Cohe~, D~p• , ~ ~,,~ .,.~§&PP.tel~ J . @arney,;~ .~cptt..,. lTi ·' ~loom He !ln~st;. · !i\'li·\ (;;.~·~,d'~.. ~-~- -..- ........ , .. , ... ;c.n ~.,s --~~~~~..,~ ~ ~ · Tom Rice, ark Wasserman, · · · ·· · Alan White,· Aiidy Hartzell, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30th 8;45 and 10:45 Dave Blakelock, Mitch Ber- stein, Rob Quish and Kevin Watkins. Beer 1st ACT:. MARISA PALASITS 2nd ACT: JOHN FRIEDLAND M.C. BARRY COHEN Wine· Pretzels 25c: Cheese 50c REBEL Will open November 11 and run tile 12th through 14th and the 18th through the 21st. Evening curtains will be at 8 p.m. and Sunday matinees at 2 p.m. Reserved seats will go on sale at both the Carnegie Hall Box Office and · the Nott Memorial Box Office· starting October 25th. Advance pur- THE CLOCKS . _.; .:..~.•'.: .. ~ \Siie Looks A Lot Like You'~* The Clocks an~ a four-piece band which has been playing together for three years in Wichita. The group has .performed with a number of acts. including Dave Edmunds. Black Sabbath and Rick Springfield. ~ 'N The group's members are Jerry Sumner, bass guitar and lead vocals; Lance IU Thr~et. guitar: Gerald \Rod\ Graves, keyboards and vocals: and Steve j Swaim, drums and vocals. Clocks were brought to the attention of CBS distrib- :c!: uted Boulevard Records by Paul_ Peterson and Stan Plesser of Kansas City- 'f ba.sed G?Od Karma Product~ons. Its debut self-titled album was produced by ~ M1ke Flicker. whose credits mclude Heart, Poco and Randy Meisner. ::2 For more information concerning Clocks, contact ATI. 4218 Main St., Kan- sas City. Kan. 64111: (816) 531-3857. BRING I. D.'s chase is strongly recom- Tliis feature is designed to spotlight acts making their debut on Billboard's Hot m~Jiqe,4!. ,:::.,; ?. :.' .· ., /00 and Top LPs & Tape charts. ~ .................................... _ ...................... _ ...... \\. __ .• ,'>:\.\'(;i\~ ~· ')_ -~,._\:-·':~. -~... ;·1;.· ___ .,....... ____ ....,.._....,... ___________ _...__, .. ... .. m 11 • This calculator thinks business. The TI Student Busines~ Analyst: If there's one thing under~ad business students have always needed, this is it: an affordable, business-oriented calculator. The Student Business Analyst. Its built-in business formulas let you perform complicated finance, accounting and statistical functions- the ones that usually require a lot of time and a stack of reference books, like present and future value calculations, amortiza- tions and balloon payments. lt all means you spend less time calculating, and more time learning. One keystroke takes the place ofmany. The calculator is just part of the package. You also get a book that follows most business courses: the Business Analyst Guidebook. Business professors helped us write it, to help you get the most out of calculator and classroom. A powerful combination. Think business. ~· '_ With the Student ~· Business Analyst. · TEXAS INSTRUMENTS ®1982 Texoo lnotrumen\

Page 10 OONOOBDIBN818, 8fJptem~er 3!)1. ,1981 (Jlnltf1lrbirnsis Founikd al limon College 1877 ----~------- -------~~~ Dumping Groun Campus organizations may have to sign their lives away just to throw a party. If so, tne Administration wlll be dumping the controversial \alcohol question'' squarely into the laps of these groups and cowerlng behind a xeroxed form letter. Is this the proper way to formulate poUcy? As we enter into Party Week No. 3, this proposal now before the Student Affairs. Council is unfortunate for all concerned. Individual organizations should not 'be given tne option to create their own underage policing system. By leaving such a grey area in their proposal, the Administration is just inviting abuse. How will it be possible to levy fines for poUcy violations if there is no concrete and absolute word from above? There should be no room for interpretation. A word to t,he wise organization leader about signing such a document. Be absolut~ly sure what - rights you are giving up and what responsibilities you are assuming. Perhaps it is not in your best interest to be liable for hWld.reds c;>f drunken maniacs. Is the College absolving itself of any obligations to you and your organization, thu J making you vulnerable to legal action? Halloween III· Our old foe is once again rearing its ugly head and threatening the solitude of the College campus. This menace is a horribly mismanaged creature which speaks with many voices. This fiend uncontre>llably gobbles up Student Activities Funds and produces entertainments. We are talking, of course, about that organization of. ill repute-- WRUC. The issue is not turntables or election fraud. · What ls at stake is the very existence of this organization. WRUC must .go 100 watts to comply with Federal regulations or go off the air. WRUC blames their inactivity on the FCC. But who. knows for sure? The point is that WRUC is running rampant again without parental superviston. WRUC official 'X' says one thing whlle official •y• says another. All we need is Mister 'Z' and we can have an international incident. Wlll someone assume responsiblllty for these demons and settle this issue before the oldest college radio station in the country is asked to leave the airways. LETTERS Greek Week is Cominl{ · To the Editors: I would like to take this op- portunity to_ enlighten the · student body about the Inter~ fraternity Council's 2nd annual Greek Week. Greek Week was . startedto·allo:w for all freshmen and transfer.students tO;;become acquainted with various · fra~ernities through the nightly party schedule we have worked out. All .new students are en- couraged to go to these parties and meet tbe respective . brothers of each fraternity. This is a time for sociaUzing with the brothers-a!! well as a time to ask any questions you might have about the particQlar fraternity you are -at or the fraternlty system in 'general. · In addition to giving .freshmen and transfer students: an in- troduction to the Greek system, Greek Week serves some other beneficial ·purposes to the college and local connnunity. It provides a week of parties fQr all students of Union to meet and socialtze. Also, · all fraternities participate in a week; of competition. At the end ·of this week· tbe top three fraternities receive points towards the Brown Cup based • on points accrued i~ in. terfraternity competition as well as their participation ·in putting on ~reek Week. The Brown Cup is awarded to the top fraternity as chosen by the IFC each year. Further, aU proceeds from Saturday's IFC Band Party are given to the WGY Children's Christmas Fund. This hell>a Iocltl kids while promoting the fraternal •. · system here as well as Union College. The main point h(!reis for aU to enj()y any part of this week's activities ;:as they desire. Sincerely, John Wheeler eprtnted. Wednesday, October 4, 1972 \Cabaret'' Set To Open by SAM and JANET EVENING ·piano Jramcwort (already ~~~- Our raison d'etre is ....... ~-·\''\ A growing n~d for mQre covered by the Coffeehouse) into involvemenl- We are offering the diverse forms of community things :like readings. new .. Cabafet\ as a place where· expression in the arts has led to improvisation. skiti, •shon pJays. students and faculty who do not ·. the establishment of the Union exotic musk. and <ombinations have: the time to invol College Experimental Theater. Q( all thne. Writers who deal in .themselves in a major theatrical · Designed for the person who other modes than folksongs will .production can get their appreciates an atmosphere of have a display-place for their rocks off in a smalier, more · subtle· ~onism. the theater will material. ·manageable atmosphere .. offer opportunities for students . So much for philosophy. Our Ultimately we hope to establish a · and faculty to act, direct. design, ·opening performance, preserued .poll .of writers, actors,· craftsmen, and otherwise display their in conjunction with the and directors. Anyone interested . talents on a smaller scale than i!> Coffeehouse, will be held on in any aspect should contact · necessary-for a place like Non Friday, October 13. in Old Harry Tapton c:o the· note Memorial. Chapel. Refreshments will be an boards in the Non Memorial Now, what d·o we mean by inleJral pan of experimental Green Room. For more that? Well, if· you're a person theater. as we btlieve that theater information, and sign-ups for · who has created something. or and the stomach. Jo logether. We pote.ntial participants, check the · has Jound something interesting will be serving cappuccino. tea. board marked .. Cabaret.\ to perform, you now ha\e a coffee. and ~stries. The accent ·~~~·-···\\' in which 10 express this.· will be on ten:ke; trained waiters · 'We a~ auempcing to expand and •aitresses will be in upon the existrng guitar-and· attendance. U . ' I. - · · ·ti··· .nton s .nsecuri · es By NORMAN BmNBACH Features Editor In the 1981 movie Absence of Malice, Megan Carter (Sally Field), a reporter for tne Miami Herald, writes an article that clears alleged water-front mob leader Mike Gallagher . (Paul Newman). In the article, Carter mentions the name of the In- nocent .person who provided the information and the cir- cumstances behind the in- formation. In so doing, Carter publicly damaged the person. When I saw Absenc-e of Malice, I thought it was good, even accurate - up to a point. The point was mentioning. an innocent person's name when one did not have to and when it could .Potentially be em- bar;rassing or incriminating to do so. I discussed that point with a friend who also writes for his \ college paper, saying that no responsible journalist would - even allude _ to an innocent person were .the circumstances similar to those in~AbSence of Malice. A paper cot!ld get sued, I said. I.· said I wouldn't do s·ometh~g like\ that. . The point is -that last week an incident occurred. A friend had too much to~ drink and was on medication. About my friend - that's all that is important to know. You don't need to know my friend's name, sex, or age. All you need to know is that my friend got sick. We had to call Security, And that's what I wanted to write about. But .in order to do so, I have to mention an incident that is potentially embarrassing to my friend. Yet at the same time, I have a- responsibility as a journalist, as an editor, to write what I con- sider to be important: the way Security .handled an emergency. this. The problem brought up · questions, such as what is more important: A person's right to privacy or the public's right to · The problem bothered me a lot. I even had trouble writing Contmued on page .11 <!Cone or Editors-in-chief Managing Editor News Editors Features Editors Arts Editor Campus Page Editors. A.J. Brodsky, Dianne Pav~cic Julianne Abelman . Marcy Burstiner, DoUg Landon Judi Lee Chervenak, Nonnan Birnbach Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia, Charis .Richards. Cindv J. Tenner · n~c.Owens DonnaGetson Gina Persico Drew Huctey, Rick Sapir Pe.terMohr Sarah Couch, Janet Guiliano, Tom Mege.rian . Ro~rtTang . David Neiblwn Phil Atio, Tom Campbell, Paul Choquette, .. Jodi Cohen,ScottCOUJns,KathyOuffy, VadimE., Susan Engle; David Fitzgerald, Lou George, C!=tthyGifford, J~ulice Glidden,Mike Hunt, Ro&in King, Sue Kone, Glenn Krutoff, Tracy LaMarca, Emlly Loose, PatMcGroyn, Michelle Novelle, Joan O'Connor, Patti Sacks; Franklin Schneider, Mike ~eridan, Bob Van Voris, Copy Editor ·National News Editor Women'sSp()rts Editor Sports Editors Layout AdVisor Acting PhOto Editors Sports Photo Editor · Cartoonist . Staff Sue Wayne; SherryWeitzen, Scott Wykoff CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie l{all; Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office:Susquehanna ~blications, Inc., Box ~88, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 003-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription 1at~: 35 cents per copy, $12per year, delivered anywhere in the Umted States. · . CONCORDltNSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS)., and' utilizes the Colleg~ News Bureau (CNB). · .. • r Oi 01 e· gl Cl ~pi OJ it: tr al t~ C( dl Cl al S<J w. hi Sl 0~ th bi ai al su P. ca nu W< so thi AI ffil be ye 1 wi kil no if' in to: Al1 Co lm ills Pr ne' thE pr1 IDE fri1 CW \w mB unl Ne· An def dai Th~ pril E pril the abc

... in in. as .. ·in · The . the IFC ~r, aU IFc to the ~istmas kids ~sternal Union for aU week's tmuni~y ·· the ~ :where ' do not · eatrical more • phere. a ftsmen, • ~ note ~moria! mo ps for ~ck the · up to to ~cic ~ein ~he . . ··coNOOBDIENSIB; Bfitptember 80, 1988 Page 11 ·- COMMENTARIES !CapitaiPu~ishmenLI ,Washing.ton Report 'The foUC)wlng 18 a transcript of an ed,ltorlal which was aired on WllUC this past Sunday evenmg ~n tbe 6:•5 news. CapltalP1ui.ISbment! One of the hottest isSues in gubernatorial :races' across the coUiltry this year is capital -punishment. C'UlTent popular opinion is in favor < of re.- in~tituting this hi·ghly , con- troversillllegislation. But, in an analytic research paper done by this reporter last spring, i.t was ~oncluslvely $hown that the death penalty is not a proven crime det~ttent and that it is also highly hypocritical of society . to tell ~ murderer how wrong· his crime is, by killing hlm. However, the prison system throughout the U.S. is overcrowded,· unhealthy, and the site .of sexual attacks too brutal to mention on the public airwaves. Now, I woUld like to go back to· a news story that brokethis past sunu:ner. It seem that Allied P.O.W.s in Japanese prison camps were subjected . to numerous medical tests that would not be ethical in today's society; because the results of these tests, were so useful to Allied medical doctors, the mere fact of their existance has been covered up .for the past 37 years .. What do these two have to do with each other? The fact is that killing a criminalhas .absolutely no benefit for society. However, if we coUld use these prisoners in medical testing, the benefits to society would be tremendous. Although some might _question the ethics of such tests, J.. am confident the results would far outweigh any detrimental ef- fects to the murderers, .rapists, and what have you. In addition, r have consulted many six-year meds tn this school, and oPthose she coUld spare the,ti.ine to talk to me., all agreed with my opinion. However, let no one question my humanity. For should any of these human guinea pigs survive the tests performed on them, I wotild be in favor of'havingtbeir sentence commuted and allowing them to walkaway ftQm prison. That is, if they can still walk. . What type .of tests would be performed? For starters, I would lik.e to ~:~ee prisoners injected with heavy doses of incurable diseases. I feel event1,1aUy when enough people have died .from it a cure will be founq. But the benefits do not stop here. Prisoners could also be exposed to intense heat and cold for long durati9ns -in order to witness how the human body breaks doWJl and self-destructs, In addition, convicts would make :e-xcellent subjects in testing new drugs before they come on the market. To· sum it all up, a quick, silent, .painless death is not going to stop a criminal. However, knowing if be is caught he may be ravaged by any one ofa nwnber of diseases or drugs would certainly deter the potential killer, burglar Qr· milk-carton stealer. · -,-TJrls is Matt Nankin with one man's opinion. ..-Mr. Nankin's editorials can be beard Sunday nights on WRUC at 6:15. Secure?? • • • Continued from li_age 10 know. In a Cominentary I wrQte last year called \What's Fit to Print,\ I said that \A ne.wspaper is suppOsed to print the news; true information previously unknown.\ That means l should print my friend's name and all the cir- cumstances. uso,'' I wrote; \what's tit to print? Infor- mation that's· .. previously mentioning my friend's name, sex, age, or major. In the end,-I have .gone ahead ~cause I think the incident is that im~ portant as an indication of how our Department of Security h~dles emergencies. In the en;d,. I got my friend's per- mission. unknown (which is Webster's New World Die:tlonary of the - All night long; my friend. had Ame-rican Language's been walking around, more definition for news) and not drunk than most people on damaging to ·innocent people. campus that night. And That's news, and that's fit to although not acting . in a way print.\ that's typical, my f~;iend was Even so, .to print or not to not in physical trouble until one print was a tough question. In o'clock. That's when things ·the end, I have decided to write started getting. bad. My friend about the incident, without started throwing up, which we ---------· By Jack Anderson · and Joe Spear WASHINGTON - In his televised speech ·on the Mi<ldle East last week, President Reagan came very . close to accusing the IsraeU govern- ment of being totally respon· sible for the massacre of hundreds of Palestinians in the Shatila and Sabra refugee camps. It wasn't the first time this month that Reagan was· temp- ted to lock horns with Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin. The president came close to delivering an ultilnatum to Israel when he delivered his Middle East peace proposal oil September 1. Bu.tat the last ll)inute, Reagan crossed out several points in his speech that he decided were too strident. · The original text, for example, warned Israel that its stubborn stand on the Palestinian problem would precipitate a \•major crisis\ with the United States. But the president deleted tbe reference to a \major crisis.'' . 4nY talk of a \major crisis,\ he knew, would imply a threat to cut off' military aid to Israel. That threat is a powerful weapon, but it's like a nuclear bomb: It's more effective as .a threat than it is actually to use. There is. no halfway measure the United States can invoke. So Reagan decided not to threaten sanctions-in other words.,_ not to apply U.S. pressure on Israel. Instead, he chose to bring world pressure on Israel. This was the purpose of his Middle East peace· .plan. He hoped it would mobilize world pressure against Israel. Then the Iraelis moved into West Beirut.. On September J5, the President received a secret State Department report. It charged that the assassination of Lebanon's president-elect Bashir Gemayel had presented took to be a -sign that the drunkenness stage was over. But then we found out my friend was on medication. At 1:14, Security arrived. When the one officer saw how we were handling the situation, he said that there wasn't anything he could do. What he cfid do was watch us. Soon after that, two more officers. arrived; and they could do no more. The problem is that I'm not sure what Security can do. We did everything. We called the· nurse. We called the hospital to check on the effects of tbe medication. We were ·the ones who called for an ambulance. ... · r-----------.------.1 ''the. opportune moment for consilidation of Israel's presence in Lebanon.\ Reagan was angry over the occupation of West Beirut. But again, he avoided a \major crisis . .'' Again, he sought to bring world pressure on Israel. Then came the slaughter of the Palestinians. Now, the \major criSis\ is closer. There is renewed talk. in the White House of cutting off milltary aid to Israel. . ACTIVE CASE: The Capitol Hill cocaine scandal hasn't faded away yet. The .Justice Department has a special task force pursuing allegationS that some members of Congress were involved with a drug ring. From inside s,ources, we have learned thaP at least one congressman has .been recorded on tape. The legislator-the evidence is still too weak to war.rant naining him-can be heard talking with a member of tne drug ring. The topic_ of their conver$ation: alleged cocaine purchases. The congressman also apparently mentioned other lawmakers who were customers of the drug dealers. MINORITY MEss· - The federal agency that is supposed to help miilority-run businesses is plagued with mismanagement and cronyism. The M·.inority Business DeveloP.ment Agency has long been a dumping ground for various administrations to pay off political favors. Lately, it has turned into a battlefield, with blacks and Hispanics fighting for the crumbs tossed out by the federal ,government. Now, according to our sources, agency officials may be in even hotter water. The Commerce Department's in- spector general, Sherman Funk, is looking into allegations that nine of the agency's con- tracts may have been illegally awarded. Victor Rivera. the Although, to be fair, we had to call the ambulance through the nurse's office. But I think that's the only way it would come onto campus - otherwise the call might be some sort of prank. The point is what we were doing was good, but Security should have been able to do more, to be in charge more. My friend was only sick and drunk. But what ~ould have happened had my fr1end or anyone else been in more serious trouble? Incidents such as what hap- pened happen six or seven times a term, one Security officer said. But if it had been more agency's dir~ctor, has been implicated in one of the in· vestigations. Funk, however, used to work for the Mlin,ority Business Development Agency, and some · insiders are wondering whether he can objectively investigate the scandal. HEADLINES AND FOOT- NOTES: Does the Navy have too many admirals? In 1945, there was one admiral for every 130 ships. Today, each admiral has charge over about two ships. Intelligence sources say they have spotted a new Soviet weapon deployed near the Chinese border. But U.S. military experts can't decide whether it's a laser weapon or something else. So they've nicknamed it ''Tora.\ That's the word the Japanese used to identify their surprise attack against Pearl Harbor. In an effort to encourage the re11toration of democracy in Argentina, U.s. Diplomats have initiated secred discussions with several of that nation's political parties. But so far, the United States has not offered formal support to any group. One U.S. Diplomat explained that most Argentines are still agitated over the U.S. role in the Falklands crisis. \Anybody we embrace now will be burned,\ he said. ''If I were an (Argentine) politician, I wouldn't want to wrap myself in the stars and stripes.\ WHAT'S NEXT?: The Congressional Black Caucus has traditionally stuck to domestic matters, but look for its members to shift their at- tention to the international scene ... Immigrants will fill an important void .in the next 20 years. Between five and 15 million workers will be needed for manual labor that Americans will be unwilling to perform. than drunkenness, could Security handle it? . We all see Security's two cars cruising up and down Union's roads. But mostly we see the cars parked by Security's headquarters. Is that how we are getting our money's worth? Are we reaUy secure with the service Security provides? Mostly all they seem to do is fine cars that are parked illegally. Is that the type of security we want? Concerned citizens, budding Buckleys, neophyte N ovaks, and aspiring Andersons should contact D.C. Owens at 6155e Intelligent commentaries are welcomed by Concordiensis. i J i i I ' I j I I I l I I I j

Page 12 CLASSIFIEDS - SCHOLARSHIPS The 31st Annual BMI Aw ... to Student CompGGera com- petition will award $15,000 to young comp()sers; James G. Roy Jr., BMI assistant vice president, Concert Music Association, has announced. He added that the deadline for entering the 1982-83 competition will be Feb. 15, 1983. The 1982-83·competitlon closes Feb. 15, 1983. ·Officual rules and entry blank;:iare available from James G.. Roy, Jr., Director, BMI Awards to Student Com- posers,. 8roadcast Music, Inc., 320 W. 57th St., NY, NY 10019. Applications are now available for the 1983-34 New York State Regents ScbOlar- sblps for Professional Study of Medicine, Dentistey, Optometry or Veterinary MecUclne. Aw~rds range up to $1000 per year. Awards are based on the score obtained on the MCAT, OAT or OCAT, which must be filed by Feb. 22, . 1983. Application deadline is Feb. 7, 1983. Pick up your application at the Financial Aid Office. The Pickett and Hatcher Educational Fund offers educational loans at 6 percent interest to liberal arts students who are residents of the southeast. (Preference is given to students who are residents of Ala., Ga., Fla., Ken., Miss., NC, sc, Tenn., and Va.). Students planDWng to pursue careers in Medicine, Law and the Ministry are not eligible. For application materials, contact: Pickett and Hatcher Educational F~d PO Bdx.8169. . . ' . Columbus, Ga. 31908 The Leopold Schepp Foun· dation offers grants to both undergraduates and graduates on the basis of character, ability and financial need. Formal request for assistance must be in writing directly from the student and should include a statement of education to date, length of course of study, vocational goal and financial need. In case of graduate ap- plications, a reswne and an outline of the prospective program would be helpful.. Students must indicate a willingness to arrange a per- sonal interview in NYC. Send your request to: The Secretary Leopold Schepp Foundation 106 E. a5 St. NY, NY 10016 (212} 889-9737 The Amerlcan.Scandlnavian Foundation offers grants and fellowships to Americans wishing to pursue graduate study or do research in Den- . mark, Finland, Iceland, Nor- way or Sweden. Applications are available by writing to the: Exchange Divunon Ame.rican-Scan dina vi an Foundation 127 E. 73rd St. NY, NV 10021 Application deadline iS Nov. 1, 1982 for the 83-84 academic year. The National Research Council announces its 1983 Research Associateshlp Awards Programs for research in the sciences and engineering to be conducted in 18 federal research i'nstitutions at laboratories located throughout the United States. The programs pr9vide Ph. D. .scientists and engineers of unusual promise and . ability with opportunities for research on problems largely of their own ·choosing, yet compatible with the research mteres' of the supporting \laboratory· · Approximately 250 new full· time associateships will be awarded on a competitive basis. in 1983 for research in chemistry, engineering and mathematics and in the earth, environmental, physical, space and life sciences. Applications t.o the Research Council for current programs must be postmarked no later than Jan. 15, 1983. Awards will ~ announced in April. . Information on specific research opportunities and federal laboratories as well as application materials may be obtained from Associatesl:lip Programs, JH 610..01, National Resf!arch · Cotineil~ 2101 ''€otl'- stitution , Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20418. (202) 334-2760. GREEK NEW,S The Sisters of Delta Delta Delta cordially invite you to attend \The Club Delta\ party on Friday, October 1. Doors open at 11:30 p.m. and semi- formal attire is required. Party at Delta GaiDIIla, Sat., Oct. 9 at 10 p.m. Beer and punch. · Delta Upsllon will holdits 69th annual \Fall Party\ (Party until you fall) Sat., Oct. 2 ,at 10 p.r;n. 2nd Annual Greek Party Schedule TUESDAY 8-5 SATURDAY 8-8 BETA THETA PI PHI GAMMA DELTA PID SIGMA KAPPA ZETA BETA TAU WEDNESDAY 8-6 DELTA em DELTA UPSILON SIGMA CHI THURSDAY 8-7 ALPHA DELTA PHI CHI PSI KAPPA ALPHA SlGMA PHI PSI UPSILON FRIDAY 8-8 DELTA PHI PID DELTA THETA THETA DELTA em IFC \MILLER\ Band Party at Alumni Gym featuring the revamped sensation JUDY JUNK. Donation $1.00 for JFC members anc;l $2.00 for independents. All proceeds are donated to the WGY CbUdren's ChristmaS Fund. There will be a party at Beta Theta PI on Sat., Oct. 2 On Wed., Oct. 6 at 11} p.m. there will be a party at Sigma Chi. . Saturday late night partying? Munch Out at DG! Saturday night-8unday morning 1-4 a.m., a Pancake and Sausage Break- fast ta raise money for Sight Conservation and Aid to the Bllnd. Tick~ts.on sale during the week-Ask any DG Sister or pay at the door-tickets are $1. Don't miss this middle of the .night munchout! Delta Gamma~n Lenox Road, behind the Fieldhouse. , Want to know aU the new things, a million and two things for locking in freshness? Come to a TU:PPERWARE PARTY! Sunday, Oct; 3 .at 7 p.m. in the Delta Gamm.a living room. All are welcome. DG is behind the Fieldhouse on Lenox Rd. Refreshments will be served! CAREERS & JQBS Attention Gr.~duate Students!!- Now is.~etime to ~pply for su~montlt .Gradtu~te Internships in· the Nation'·$ Capital. The Washington Center for Learning Alternatives, a nationwide internship organization, has announded an October 22, 1982 application deadline for its February- August, 1983 Graduate Session in Business-Government Relations. Each semester more than 250 students from colleges and universities across the country come to Washington, D.C. to work . .as ·interns . under the auspices· .. of the '· Wasbiilgton Center for Learning Alter• natives. They gain experience and academic credit for working full time in Congressional, .Executive or Judicial offices; publlc interest organizations; national associations; or private businesses. The WCLA Internship Program is open to juniors and seniors in all academic majors. The application deadline for the 1983 Winter Quarter Internship. Program is October 15; for · the 1983 Spring Semester, November 1, 1982. For an application and more program information, write or call: The Internship Program, The Washington Center for · Learning Alternatives, 1705 DeSales Street, N. W., Washington, D.C. 20036. 202--Gaf)..~ 8510. The Rape Crisis Service of Schenectady will offer a training program for women who are interested in becoming crisis intervention volunteers. The first session will be on Saturday, Oct. 2, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the YWCA, 44 Washington Avenue. Alpha Delta Phi, iil search of Waiters! For additional information call 382-9683; ask for Steve Lieb or Scott Witkin. BUS BOY, Friday and Saturday nights, 5-10 p.m. Call 38~173 and ask for Don Raf- ferty. DRIVER to deliver tickets for football games .in the Tri-city area. No selling. Compact car needed. Call Mr. Rogers at 374- 1665. STOCK CLERK . •• hours flexible.·can susan Bee at 374- 1221. ELJ..IS HOSPITAL patient obsel'Vers. On call .as needed. Call Shellah Roerhe at 382~190. BABYSl'M'ER ..... SChenectady Tues .. , Wed. 2:30-5:30 during January - s· day week .. Call Rosemary after 5:;10 at 39~1. NYS ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN Schenectady . Chapter · •• Workers needed for counseling, dispensing medication, etc. Every other weekend. Call David for interviews at 355-2390. CALECO INDUST·RlES, Amsterdam. Technicians to work \liiglil:$ hOurs· fl~Xi.ble· to r~pair, c~cuit. boatc;ls {or. video gai'I).es •. Shoqld have 'electr:ical b~ckv9un<t;. ca,u ~2~1~~.· _ · RIDES Need a ride to Rockland? I Will be going many weekends. I leave on Thursday or Friday. Intersted? Call Sue. 370-6799-. I need a ride back to Union from the Who concert at Sh~a Stadium, Tuesday, Oct. 12. Will share expenses. Please · · call Sharon Brand at 393-0700. Thanks. SPECIAL. CLASSES · · The Schenectatly YWCA , is offermg\a gymnastics' class for women ag~s 17 and up to be held on Monday evenings from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. The class will run for 8 weeks and will cost $24. YWCA membership is required to participate. Lee Mac Williams will be the in- structors. Please feel free to can 374-3394 from 9 a.m. to 9 .p.m. daily for - more in- fonnation. A 10-week Life . Saving course will begin October 7 at the Schenectady YWCA 44 Washington Avenue. The class will be held on Thursday evenings from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. Join the clas8 and learn- ad- vanced resuce and water safety and receive' an advanced Life Saving Certificate. Call 374- 3394 for further infortnatioit; CLUB NEWS Don't forget to come on down to Circle K, th.e serviqe. organization of Union College, every Wednesday at 6;4a ,p.m. in 4th floor Carnegie Lounge, Check us out. I Concert Band: Rehearsal on Thursday at 6:15 in Memorial · Chapel. Remember, the first concert is only 6 weeks away! l First meeting of tbe Intellectual Cabaret will be held on Tue$day, Oct. 5 at 9 p.m in the Cabaret Room (across f11om the student maU:room) .. · All interest-ed pe~ons are urged to attend. this meeting. - Biology Olub meeting, 4: ~ p.m. in Con£. Rm. A, Wed., . .()qt. 6. ~'' .. ' .. IEEE MembeJ:.ship m.e~tin& Tues., Oct. 5, 6:30-8 p.m.~·.SS014 r,f'.,. ... _ ... ~'-·.·1~~~.;;.-.!~-,...~~~- ~'r' ... .,.,;.-..-.~~~~;' •• ~,.-:_-~{.~..c< Karate Club flle~ting, Tues., Oct. 5, 7-9:30 p~'m., ArtS 202 Chess Club meeting, 'l-11 p.m\ Wed., Oct. 6, Con£. Rm, ·A Circle K meeting Wed., Oct. 6, 7-9 p.m., 4th Floor Lounge, Carnegie Scuba 'Diving Club meeting, Wed., Oct. 6, 7-10 p.m., 88012. There will be Yearbook meetings every Wednesday at 8 p.in. in the Garnet Room, 4th floor Carnegie. Everyone ls welcome. FOR SALE· . . ' Porch Bale - 1142 Highland Park Rd. - off upper Union Street. Saturday, October 2 from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m., rain or shine. Furniture, typewriter, iron, coffee table; trundle beds, books, etc. Brand New Panasonic Refrigerator-Freezer under full warranty. Capacity: 2.6 cubic ft. Shelf area: 4.8 square ft. It sells for around $300 - I'm only asking $1401. (Less than renting a siiililar frig. for only two years). Call Seth at 372-6332. Union College Film Committee presents \TtlE FuNNIEST NEW COMEDY OF tHE YEAR.\ -Vernon Scott, UNITED PRESS PAUL NEWMAN,N Sl ·JI·P s•1101·· II . • . . ... ·. :R m!RICIII~:. U•IVlRUl . . Wednesday, Oct. 6 7:30 and 10 p.m. 55016 $1.00 74e'M . '8~ at the corner of $tote St •. and Erie Blvd. in the 11 0ld\ State Arcllde • 377-1515 High In Qualify, 5 aa· ·ber'Sty• lists Plea~lng you,. Low In price r . · I_ . Pleases us -Serving Union· for. over 70 years- • t • • .. - - - S1 v tl ~ s, a il tl a g tl E r; fl h n p a (ii A fl n A J 1!. a 21 a - Tl C! e1J fo sp cr U1 m, fr1 lUi co PI th bE \.1 Bl N4 19: B1 - = I 101 Tf in pu an by

37~ Oil irst All to ~n ·A 6, ~e, ~k is CONCOBDIBNBlS,., September 30, 1981 ·Page 18 STUDY ABROAD Because the US dollar h{ls strengthened in recent months vis-a .. vis the French Franc and the SpanifJh fleseta) Ac_@.dernic Year Abroad, an educational service organization which arranges . individualiZed study in the Universite de Paris and the Univ~~idad de Madrid, announces that costs will be greatly lower beglmtin8-- with the spring semester of 1983 •. In Franee, for eumple, where the rate of exchange is. the most favorable for Antericw th~ it must file a waiver card with the ~usiness Office. ·Bl.lllilg for this coverage, in tbe amount of $99.0Q, will be maUed on or al)out Oct. 8, 1982 •. Waiver cards are still avaUtrble in the Business Mai'lager's office if you n~ed to' complete one. This . office m located on the ~eond fiQOr of Sqmley Becker lull. Professor Hugh Allen Wilson will be giving a Lunchtime Harpsichord Concert every Wednesday from 12:45.-1:15, in the Arts Building room 202 beginning Wedil!!sday, $ept. 29. Admis$ion is free ~d the public is cordially invited to attend. has ever been, the reduction is - · more than $800 per year, ·$40()· ,AJ.ptia Pel'- Phi, in fearch of . per ~emester. Thus, the costs ... Boarders! Lwcuriqus rooms. are often much less than tlie For a'dditlonal information cost of a s~mester in an contact Steve Lieb or Qunpbell American univer~Jity. Clegg at 382·9688. . · .. Applications for._ spring and BOlel · · fall 1983 at the new rates are PaidoiUp membership dinner now being received by: Friday, Oct. 1. Services ate at Academic Year Abroad, 17 7:30 in the Sukkah in Jackson Jansen Road, New Paltz, NY Gardens, followed by diriner in 12561. _ , thbe. e l{osheted_ r Kitct hthen. dDU!!S ~ ·Students wishing a brochure . accep . · a e oor. 1.ue and application shoUld sen(l two dinner is free for paid-up 20-cent. ~ps tQ the above ·members and $5 for ·non-paid add,ress. · people. . LANGUAGE TABLES. German Language Tal>le: Thursdays at 12:30 in the Pub. Come practice your German even if you're a beginn~r!. There will be a French Table for all those interested in speaking French· and in creating a French ambiance at Union. The Table Francaise will meet at the Pub every Monday from 12:30 to 1:30. Otop in for lunch or just for un peu de conversation. SPEAKERS Mr. · Chester Burrell, President, Blue Cross of_ Nor- theastern NewYork, Inc., will be speaking on the \.Reorganization of Blue Cross· Blue Shield of Northeastern New York,\ Thurs., Sept. 30, 1982, 3:45 p.m. in Room 207, Balley Hall. Bike -for their liv~ tugged 75 mile round trip bike hike starting in Warrensburg with oyernight .accommodations . m· Indian Lake and return to Warrensbu_rg will be held Saturday and Sunday, October 2-3, sponsored by the Leukemia _Society of America, Upstate Chapter. This scenic ride, limited to 10(1 bikers~ will :be at the· height of \leaf~peeker\ season. - Air accommodations. in- chuting lodging, meals and refreshments are provided as Well as saf~ty. eS~Qrt, tran- sportation of gear, sag service and secure overnight bicycle stor!ige, · Prizes for persons rai$ing the most money Will be awarded at the Indian Council Fire· Saturday night on the grounds of the Indian Lake Central School. A minimUm of $100 in pledges and donations will be required to participate in the event. the kegs qf beer (given to the floors or .organizations donating the rnost blood by percentage of members) include: First Floor RichmQnd, Third Floor Davi<bon North, Third Floor FolSoUth. Pizza don~tted by t~e Dean or Students Will also be included.. We wish to thank everyone involved. PERSONALS You. made my night - as alw:ays. Imiss and love you. see you in less than '11 days. - XO Scotty; Joe, BUI- Where are you? Come visit the Red Brick hOuse. Lynnie - Thanks for tbe great idea of. tap. nows and then wimping out of them . 10.0: Walk home much? Way to .get carried home after fiSserly got his thrills. Drink much? CT - Is this; an abbreviation or initials? It could be either now. You ate a DP. · Hey Tush One, how about an erotic story? Time to use up. those coupons. 'You ate· my best friend, and sometimes I want to hold hands again. Neyer forget Eeny, Meeny, Miny, and Mo. Maybe someday theY will meet againl Happy 19th~ I love you - Tush Two S;C. Silly - Thanks for the greatest start! The twenty-first was a super day for me! What does the year ahead have in store for us? Love your little silly. · Fle and Garth: ·Happy . bir• thdayl Have a super one. With love, OnE) who knows. (about amazing birthdays) Ann ... You have our sympathy about Zeta, but he will be with us in spirit always. Love always, SLGS Garth- Happy Birthday from your three favorite women. Sany - Best of ludc Saturday ... in all ways ... Love, A Friend Get out that touring qik:e and be prepared for an un- forgettable weekend in the Adirondacks-a great time for a great cause. For registration form and information, contact the Leukemia Society of America,\ Upstate Chapter, Execu~ive Park East, Albany, NY 12203 or call (518) 438-3583. · \ Ron- When is Roger coming to visit? . MISCELLANEOUS Grey Harris Tweed overcoat lost at Chi Psi Lodge on '1'11ursday night: Keys and brush in pocket. Reward. Call 6659. Students who elected not to purchase the Student-Accident and Sickness insurance offered by the College during August This fall's Bloodmobile was very successful. The three day total nwnber of donors was 259. This is 89 percent of the total number we could have ac- commodated. The winners of The Big Apple became cider · tbat fermented. It was fun, but not' any more. Say Hello anc;l wave Goodbye. Tony C.- Thanks for Yeukel'; Saturday nites, and long talks. Yes, it is confusing but ... two of us are smiling. How does one turn a light into a fountain?.- C. Union College Film Committe~ presen.fs Fri.-Sun., oct. 1 .. 0ct. 3 $l •. OO 7:30 and 10 p.m. 55016 CLASSIFIEDS T. - Thanks fo1 the real rock and electric guitar. More .is to come .... - Who else Bottoms ... Here;s to \The Big Six.\ Je t\aime plus beaucoup que n'importe ql.Ji, _dans ce monde! !! ! - Me JPH, Welcome back to· your Cspitol DiStrict home. At least here you can shower! I mi~ you very much! BIJrton H. will soon be a reality. Thank you for · everything! SDI sweeties, Thanx for your warm birthday wishes. Good luck to all of you this year! Love, Maria Katzy Kats - Hope ~t you had lots to eat this weekend! - Love, Your two roommates ... Bottoms- Happy Half Year! ... Je t'aiine plus beaucoup que n'l!nporte qui, n'importe quoi, ... n'.tinporte ou ... meoz:oxox P;S. ++ I LOVE VOU!!! Peenie, \Happy Happy Birthday\ I know you are going to miss not. belng in Stratford- upon-the-Avon this year! - Love, t.B.B. To the Smith Sickies, Have a good time at rafters. - from the Flame B09ker, how do you like your eggs? · Marlene - Stretch already, Elvira. Sex Goddess: How's the Astro-turf feel? Is it com- fortable? Bo ...... This is to fill up the 6 inches \too short\ - I'll bet you can think of something to fill up more than that! ! - C7'inches limp!!) - Moi Sue - Get psyched for Saturday ... and Sunday ... and Monday ... aild .. yea!! We're seniors. I'm psyched! Love, your true blue drinking buddy (after 1•00 a.m. Sat.), Charts Lush - To hell with love, L- is much more fun. - Lush Rob- Let's make a deal- CR Bo .. Psyched to turn 20?! Maybe they'll find a 12 inch! - Char 10..0: All mouth huh?- Love, Greg · Cheryl A: You are very cute. Have a good day. I do love you still. - Guess who C.S.G. - Out of control once again!!! Kathy - Does that red suit go all the w~y down? I can't seem to find you in any of my classes, did you get lost? IBM knows you very well, they knew exactly what you wanted. - Peter . Peasant, Bonzo, Bert, Phil - Whatever you go by will you please · STOP CRACKING YOUR TOES. IT'S DRlVING ME CRAZY!! ! ! By the way, watch out for fiying corks. - Your roomie Lynn~i: Go for it! - Delta Love · Smith House •• Peter's Except the \Frosty disease,'' that we could have done Without. Keep it up .... PDF Mav, Happy 19th Birthday! Collect all the kisses you can. - Love, the D.B. 's of U.C. CJT desires personals and men! Here is one of the two. - Love always, JKF. . COUSIN: Just saying hi. Hope you understand I need a lot of patience, LOTS. I'll get better, really. -slightly dazed Jim, I can't thank you enough for the hickey, but I'm sure I'll think of some way to repay you! GRN- HB you are a loser but you are a buddy. Come visit. - CES Twyla: Happy 20th birthday! - Love, Donna _ Seth ·- Missed you last year. I'm glad we'r.e friends. - Love, CM RIM: I carry your heart with me (I carry it in my heart). - Love of your life Jellybean: Get psyched for a great party! Who Will it be- a frog or a frosh? - Delta love, Koala. Laurie, Happy No. 16. Here's to many more! - Love, Peter 10.0: Love your choice of dance partners! But don't you think he was a TAD un- derdi\essed? - ~ve, Dan-o C & D-· Who's Crissie anyway? And what is an this about owls and falling out of trees? Just remember that MOzzarella is much better (and less efficient) than cheddar. - A. Hyla: Do you still live here? - Love, your roomie Charis - Good luck on your I..SA T's. I love you very much. - Bo To our fellow Smithie -Knock 'em dead on the I.SAT's. Love, your \house-ies\ Smith: Dinner tonight, consisting of DRY toast and Ginger Ale will be served promptly at 6:30 in the bathroom. Due to limited · -· seating make reservations early. . _ To my favorite mousie, Happy 8 months! We did it! I'm sorry for doubting. - Love always, Animal Booker, after a hard day's work, how do you spell relief? E-G-G-S!!! (Grade A large of course). Hey Booker, could I interest you in a chick~n ranch? Bob & Greg Realtors (EGGSEUENT price, real cheep) Just when you thought it was safe to take a CS course again - \Truth - Part 2''! DB's of UC (TPL, KAV, LIS, EV, C-) - This year's going to makeustheD-ingB'sof UC, not the ])..le~ B's of US. We're \wanted whoa-men.\ Have fun girls - Keep in touch. - Signed an executive members of the DB's (guess who). Programmers will win S.H.E.L. Roberta - Have you. ·been baseball. Great job so far gang. \picked up\ lately? PERSONALS. AND CLASSIFIED$ ARE FREEl! Bring them to the Concordy office hy 7 pm Tues . ' l i I I.

Page 14 OONO,O~DIENSl/3) Septe~ber. &Q, . .tN$ Financial Aid Crisis Plagues Students (CFS\)-College officials and students predicted grevious shortages of financial aid this fall. . What they've gotten instead are less severe shortages, but even more grevious quantities of delays, confusion and anger over financial aid, a 'chec~ of campuses across the country reveals. The result is that, even a$ classes open, many students still don't know if they'll be able to afford to go to college this fall. \I really don't know what to do,\ says Doug Haas. a second• year student at the Community College of Denver. Now two weeks into his fall seme$ter, Haas is still.-waiting to find .out if he's eligible for grant money and .for getting his · work-study position back. \I guess I'll have to fall back on my dad if everything else fails,\ Haas says. \Either that or I'll have to drop out.\ Northwestern University grad student James Finney \applied for a. loan over a month ago and (I) haven't heard anything. As a matter of fact, I'm still waiting for an appointment just to see how much longer I'll have to wait.\ Finney consequently doesn't know how to mold his class schedule because he doesn't know how many: part-time jobs he'll have 1 to get to muster Northwestern's $2600-a-quarter tuition. Moreover, \it means not going to school at all next quarter if it (aid) doesn't come through.\ \For this faU's financial aid applicants, there's one word tha~'s first and foremost in their vocabularies: confusion;'' summarizea Bob Aaron of the American Council on Education in Washington, D.C. Aaron· and administrators at· many campuses say· students are confused about the amount of federal aid that's available . .If they know there's aid available, they're confused because they can't ge~ any from their CIUDPUS aid offices, which are still waiting for the U.S. Department of Education to send them paperwork that normally reaches campuses in April. \The good news is that financial aid programs haven't been cut as severely as the Reagan administration plan- ned,'' deadpans Dennis Martin, assista.nt director of the National Association of Student Financial Aid Advisors. \The bad news is, in tenns of the application, administration and delivery processes, ttUS has been the· .most confusing swruner ever.\ During the .summer, Congress finally allocated $1.3 billion. in emergency funds to federal aid programs, bringing the total to $3 billion, a four percent decrease from last year's levels. Specifically, Pell Grant funding was halved. Sup- plemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG) funding is down by 25 percent, State Student Incentive Grant and College Work..Study funding . by four percent each, and college Social Security by 4S percent. Fewer students, moreover, are eligible for Guaranteed Student Loans (GSLs). To make matters worse, Washington has delayed telling · individual colleges just how much money they'll have to allocate to their students under the slashed programs. example, didn't get its 11 look-up tables.\ for determining how much it could offer in GSLs until mid-July, though it usually gets it in June, complains FSU's Ed Marsh. · \We haven't received our final allocation,\ confirms Michael Halloran, aid officer at the University of Sout·hern California, '''We anticipate losing about a half-rnillJon dollars in funding.\ , Martin ~ays SEOG and College Work-Study awards,.· normally made in Aprll won't happen until late September this year, Most schools, he adds, are running about two IIlO~ths behind in awarding Pell Grants. The result, · says .Nor• thwestem's aid director Andre Bell, \is a fair amount of hysteria and confusion .because of the delays ·trom Washington. The whole process is terribly confused this year.\ . The reasons for the delay are subject tQ speculation. Indeed, Sally l{irkgasler of the Dept. of Education calls the delays in SEOG at College Work-Study awards \overestimated\, and claims Pell Grants .are \ahead of schedule.\ •i As far as scho.ols not knowing how much their ap- propriations are,\ she says, \we sent out tentative letters in April, and in August schools were given the authority to draw on half ~at amount if they . wanted to.\ For the last two springs, Education Secretary Terrel Bell bas wltheld the publication of aid program guidelines as a lever to force congreasional approval of President Reagan's proposed education cuts. . admlnlst.ratlon's curre.nt , reluctance _to give schools gUidelines is a money-saving ploy. As long as schools can't glve . out aid, the government doesn't ACROSS 1 Period of time 4 Yo.uhg ·cow 8 Window part 12 Decay 13 Region 14 Pr~position · 1 $ Sharp .reply 17 Card game 19 Part of to be 20Anger 2.1 Temporary bed 22 Mature 23 Arrow 25 Lard 26 Chinese mile 27 Dessert treat 28. nrink slowly . , 29 Postpone. 32Teutonic deity 33 Gratifie<1 35 Xenon sym .. bol 36 Lure 3a Nod 39 Fla.'sneigh- bor 40 Near 41 Everyone 42 Above 43 High mountain 451mitate 46 Exist 4.7 Nickel symbol 48 New Zealan.d parrot 49 Stab 52 Ginkgo 54 Utter defeat 56 Hindu pym- bals 57 Merit 58 Emmets 59 RRstop DOWN 2 Fish egg$ 3Ciothing 4 Concern 5 Skill 6 French article 7 Bundle of sticks 8 Err 9Arlicle 10 Antlered animal u Residence 16 Worthless leavi1'.1!) 18 Call .-.... a.day 21 Able 22·Bem 23Expfred 24Laod measure 25 For shame! 26 Conducted 28 Crafty 29 Morning symbol 30.$pindle have . to spend any money. ' 1 We'.re·more or less giving the federal government an lntereat- free loan for one or two rnon- - ths,'' Marsh ~ys. . Continued on pa•e 1 · CROSS WORD PUZZlE ... FROM' COLLEGE PRESS SERVICE 31 time period 33 Vt!~set 34 The sun 37 Headgear 39 Avoids 41 Armadillo 42 Oslo coin 43 Poker stake 44 Italian coin 4S Diphthong 46.River islands 48 Range of knowledge 49 Pl;;ace · 50 Household pet 51 Guido note 53 Teutonic c:lei- · · ty 55 Car;ry ~! Florida State Universitv. for FSU's 'marsh thinks the 1 Transgress Answer on page 16 ~GOULD YOUR CAMPUS GROUP USE A QUICK $500--$1 ,000? IF YOU'VE GOTTHETIME ... WE'VE GOT THE PLAN! Miller Brewing Company and our local distributor are conducting an exciting six week contest on <yOUr campus. Your organization could Qualify for one of the three $1,000.00 or tnree $500;()() cash awards. Winners will be determined at the conclusion of the contest. So remember, make your next pick .up a Miller High Life, Lite or Lowenbrau~ Quality pays off in many ways!! Con- tact your local Miller Campus Rep for more detaiJs. . \ Contest Begins on Wcednesday, October 6 at 1:30 in the Banquet Room of the Pub For More Details .Contact Chris McMorrow-382·9272 · - . . . . . - Cal j pill PJ8 of. wh ( .ntu tes hiU i·e~ dil'l .tha WrJ (J nes .fac' stU I cop by T nea roo be tea• roo wril T cop rec1 giv:l reel Tl ten· by' gav1 pla( the1 A ( ( unh welc cam mos dra~ fron becE prot M thre mer1 resE univ cred cern Pen1 strir educ and COlli scho poss thel Th Colu Way Univ Univ Ange recn facili they of se Thi blanl gays; at tt earli1 offici scho recor of tl sonn• \S1 and· fere1 civil: \Sol( and 1 unde mini:J of h en vir unitJ Tht withd the Ia univ• 1 ' repre recrtJ Tlu instal $3011 for recei

the 1 · ' . OONCOBDIBNBIB, September 86, 1.988 . I Fair Grading? 1· College Radio ·Rocks On I . Ciunpqa Digest Nen Servlcle the ·neat copies Of tbe· poor A .profesaor of educational student, and fourth to tbe slOppy J>$Ychology In Indiana: says cop_1ieses b llY the poo. r student. IQilllY factors affecl the grading Chase beUeves teachers gave of. essay questions beyond the_ · · sloppy-.· 1 copy by -the good whether the answer is correct. student blgber grades bc!cause Cllntoil ChaSe baa done a it they couldn't make out .number of studies on e8811Y exactly what was written, they testing tht .,. decade and he gave the student the benefit of Juts· foJIIld that the $udent's theTh._e·_dno~~- basedte. n- ...... _A onche. hisrs_ ~drded.. • -reputation with the teacher -~ - ea .. dll'~ affects how hJgb or :Jow tht! good student lower on· the -that teacher .grades an essay neat copy because it was easier Written by that student. to see the flaws. One study -showed that Another stucly, thiS• one from neatness coun~ut only in the West COast, also revealed facor of poore.- st11dents. In this some startling tbiJlgs about how study, 40 teachers were given a teachers grade. Th~ IIQle of the .copy of the same essay written student plays. a role In how the by a freshman. . ,.. 1 teacher rqponds. . Ten teachers were given a · . The study at california State neat copy along with a made--up UnlV'ersity discovered that record shoWing the frestunan to essays written 'by students with be a straight-A student. Ten names like_ Michael, Dui.d, teaChers were given the $Ine LiSa or _Karen_ were given record, but with a sloppily higher grades . than eSSIIYS by written copy of the e$S8Y:• . . children with less eqphonious Ten more were given il .neat names, ~e Bertha~ Elmer or copy with a pOOr scholastic Hubert.- Resear~ers ·believe record; and the final ten were those names are ~oclated giv:en a sloppy copy with a poor with humorous chara,ders, or record~ . characters :subject to i'idicule. The big surpJ.ille was that the What it all boils down to ~. if ten WhQ graded th~ .Sloppy eQSay' you're a boy named Sue, don't by a sup~y gOod• ~tudent bother writing ne~tly on essay gave the highe$t grades .. second tests-especially if YQU . have place went to the· neat copies by gOC)d grades .. And try to get your the good student. Third went to name changed before finals. A D . . . rtny · tscrtntina~es (Cl?S(-While . some universities aren't exactly welcomi.itg · gay students on campus, seven of the co~try's most esteemed law schools are drawing criticism and threats from the U.s. Army precisely because of schoolpolicies which protect gay stuaents. Moreover, the Army, in threatening to cut off Depart.. ment of Denfense . (DOD) research funding for the universities involved, has. given credence to deep-seated. con· cerns by educators that aU Pentagon money comes with strings, attached. Inevitably, the educators have warned~ DOD and other military spending on college campuses will put schools in a compromising, possibly_ subserviant position to the Pentagon. - The seven law . schools- Columbia, Harvard, Yale, Wayne State, Ne-w York University, Ohio State, and the University of California at Los AngeleS (UCLA)-all. ban job recruiters _from using school facilitj.es if, among 6ther things, they discriminate on the basis of sexual preference. Thus the Anny, with . its blanket poUcy against hiring gays~ has been unable to recruit at the seven 1aw schools. So earlier· this summer, Army officials sent letters to ·the schools ·urging them to reconsider their policies in light of the Army's ·\special per- sonnel requireme_nts.\ \Soldiers are required to U~e and ·work under entirely dif. ferent conditions than civilians,\ the letter says. \Soldiers must'· often sleep, eat, and perform personal hygiene under conditions affording minimal priyacy. The presence of homosexuals in such an enviroiUnent tends to impair unit morale and cohesion.\ Then the letter threatens to withdraw all_ DOD fun~g. for the law schools and their parent universities unless Army ~ representatives are allowed to recruit there. . . - The stakes are htg. UCLA., for instance, wtts awarded nearly $30 million in Pentagon fWldlng for 1980-81, and Harvard received nearly $3 mUlion for the same period. So far, the law schools are standing. behind their anti- discrimination policies, although they have agreed to ''consider\ the letter. Seyeral, such as Yale and Ohio State, h!lve_ se~t th~ letters Jo. ~Qecial connnittees to evaluate the Arlliy's argument. \I will present the matter to the law school faculty this fall,\ ~mys James E. Meeks, law dean at Ohio State, \but l don't an- ticipate anything to change. I think there's a real reluctance on the part of the faculty to allow recruiters to discrimin11te on the basis of sexual preference.\ , In addition, Meeks points out, \Sexual preference should be irrelevant to being a lawyer in the atrned forces. The Navy. recognizes this, and they -decide such matters on an indiVidual basis. They don't have a blanket anti .. gay policy like the Army~\ Meeks thinks most of the law schools will stick by their policies, although he .. admits that threats to cut off f~g \are ,obviously something we are very concerned about.\ \The DOD has on many oc- - casions shown its readiness to use its funding as a lever,\ .observes Dr. Seymour Melman, a Coi-umbia University professor who has written several books on the issue of Pentagon finding. \The new twist to this whole thing is the greater vulnerabiUty of universities .at a time when federal funding is being cut· back.'' · The Army; however, denies using DOD college finding-- expected to total $709.7 milllon this year-:-as a lever to-force the. law schOols into amending their policies.. - , \Discussions are still un- derivay on the_ matter,\ says Margaret Tackley, Army public affairs officer. \There haven't been any decisions by ,any of the colleges that .we know of.\ . Tackley says the .Anny's main purpose in sendhig · tile letter was to eiplain the Armyts situation~ and to let the schools know that \we might recom• mend\ withdrawal of DOD funds. NEW YORK, NY (CP$)- CoDege. .radio stations, often financially-strapped and shunned by ' student sovern- IDents, . are becoming in- creasingly Important to record companies. The reason Js that, aside ffOQl a dwindUng number of free- form stations, coUege stations are the only ones tl)at wUl ~ve~ture to play \new'' music, ilidustry sources 1ay •. \The colleges are our bread and butter,\ says Bruce Kirkland of Stiff Recants, a prominent mdepelldent label that records people like Ian Drury and the UndeacL \About six months, ago,\ he · remembers, · \when we were throwing out aJot of recordS and waiting lor one to break and sell 300,000 copies, I decided to find out where our market was. These days we go out to around 150 college. stations.'' Kirkland's sentiments are echoed.._ by independent labels across the country. They- often find college students to be the only audience Willing to give even critically-acclaimed. bands like Black Flag and X: a chance. Even major labels, despite their hefty promotiorial clout, are having trouble getting air time on commerclal stations for their new acts. · ''There is probably more rock being played today than at any time since the mid-siXties, b-ut almost none of it is being heard,\ complains Peter Campbell, a promoter involved in new wave music. Consequently, the industry is turning toward campuses as a last resort. Polygram, Walk~r says, Is ln - tbe years 196'1-1974. The 8118tY, the Rl'OCeiS -of resuscitating its often harsh sound of new wave college p.-omotion department, mualc J• Is not a statisti~ which had bt!en dropped during favorite~ the music industry slump of the College · stations thus late seventies, a period Cashbox represent the only places left to magazine refers to as \the introduce the new mtiSic. '111e harsh economic reaUtles of the stations themselves reportedly post-saturday .Night Fever have been receptive to the new days.\ attention. The Recording Indu11try \The colleges have always Association . now suggests soughtouttbenewmuslc,\ says there's a new. slump. Record_ WiD Botwtn, once of Capitol's shipments . haven't improved CQllege department and now since 1980, the .RIA reports, and with Side One Management, fu~ growth in imperilled not which speclallzes Jn. promoting only by pirate records and acts to campus audiences. taping, but by home video '\l'he:y ~a huge marke~ dl~t games, which are not viewed as has never· been intellipently competitors for entertainment exploited,\ he !tdds. dollars. \BotWin says he talks to 200 In tandem with the breakup of radio stations a week, com- the almost-monolithic r.ock piling playlists and promoting audience of ten years ago--the groups that in the past year baby boomers who bought three have included the GoGos and albwns at a time-those trends Joan Jett, both currently in the have left stations that used to top ten. score high in ratings sweeps \Colleges are Jike little ·suddenly short of listeners. cities,\ he explains. \You can The record Industry flood them with media and responded by signjng fewer new promote the hell out of a group, bands-a' phenomenon that and sell records.\ spawned new labels Uke Stiff, CBS Records probably has and IRS to accommodate the the most extensive college bands......;and aiming at the promotion department, which nostalgia market. works with some 320 stations Radio did the 8$llle thing. (down from the 800-plus stations Many stations jumped to tamer, of the mid-seventies). safer and more fonnal fonnats. Department chief Barry They reduced the number of Levine describes his job as records on their playlists, and \creating a buzz of awareness hired consultants to assess for groUPs scorned by com- audience preferences. mercia! radio.\ Consultants, grouses a staffer Levine did it most rece~tly for at IRS Records, \run radi!).\ Adam and the Ants, a band \1 don't know who they talk almost entirely Shut out of FM to,\ Kirkland laments. \They radio until it began attracting a ntust call up young housewives campus following. in their early thirties with three Within months of the kids~ and ask them what they beginning of Levine's cam- like, and of course they say they paign, the Ants were number like what they know: sixties three on college charts, with stuff.\. . . . . _ _$al~s of 110,000.. The per~ According to John Gorman, formance finally seduced program director at consultants to recommend Cleveland's WMMS·FM, 40 putting the group· on com,~ \More and more, college i$ where we _go with our new music/'. says Linda Walker, promotion coordinator at Polygram. \We've had good luck there with new wave bands · like the Jam and Teardrop Explodes. Mainstream radio wouldn 1 t touch them/' percent of the music heard on merclal radio playlists. FM r~dlo was recorded during PRI'ERIN ~!WHAT D0111EYWANT US'IOPRAY ABOUT?. •• GARFIELD®-by Jim Da~is Of.f·OJ.t, A TINV MINNOW IS CRUISING IN TO EAT THE. SWIMMERS us THAT WE NEVER NEED ABORTICWS! UH-OH. THf MiNNOW JUST GOi HARPOONEP BV AN ANT WHO BEARS A STRIKINC:t RE.SEM6LANCE TO R06EP.T SHAW

Page 16 OONOOBDIEN818~ september 30~ 1981 Film Review Labels 'Legit'? Campus Digest News 8el\Vlee Before you head downtown this weekend for another. foray into the world of designer jeans and things, better heed these words: the label yQu. are paying the big bucks for may not be what you're getting. conviction of a major coun- ••High'' At Ridgemont Label counterfeiting has really taken off around the country-and it's no wonder with fake labels raking in more than $150,000 -for one disreputable dealer in one year alone. This increasing crime got a big boost in the '70s when status labels first became important, and big sellers. Now coun- terfeiting plagues everything from motor oil to golf clubs. Even though the practice costs the legitimate . industries lots of money, penalties are not severe. Many states consider the crime as a misdemeanor, and the dealers who have been caught have been charged with other crimes, such as wire fraud, in order to get them behind bars.- The one area where label· fakers are under attack is in apparel. Those $50 jeans you picked up last week could be just another $$11.95 special With a rather inexpensive little label stitched on the rear. But the legitimate makers are fighting back. Jordache has already seized $10 million worth of fake jeans and the manufacturer also took out a · big ad in a California paper publicizing the arrest and terfeiter. . One ofthe newest tools in the battle againstthe fake clothes is a court order for seizing the fraudulent stuff. Up until this year not many manufacturers or their lawyers had gone into stores to seize the merchandise, but that was because no one had bothered to ask a judge for such an-order. There is a debate among trademark attorneys on whether it's better to get ·a fine levied against an offender or go for a jail term. The mam'idea behind all court cases of this type is to let other offenders know they will be punished if caught, and the debate centers around which punishment has the most deterrent effect. The battle against coun- terfeiting is getting eXpensive; Manufacturers of the real items want to catch the manufac- turers of the fake clothes, they don;t want to keep messing with the small-time dealer and salesman. ~st year Calvin Klein spent ten percent of its p_rofits toward cracking down on the fraud. That expense totaled more tltan a million dollars. Jordache spends about half that much, but the figures are still alar- ming-especbiUy when it ap- pears the consuming public may be losing their intense interest in labels. There is a bill before Congress _ that many manufacturers are supporting Fast TIDies at Ridgemont .Hfgh is living proof that high school really hasn't changed all , that much. The movie's:_setting is that of the southern.'califorrua town of Ridgemont, where life for the local high school kids revolves around two things: sex and the ever-present Ridgemont Mall. It's at the.MaU where you ·either make it or break it; social class isn't detel'lilined by who you know or what you wear, but ratQer by · what sllop in the mall you work. AS with Animal House, there's not much of what you'd calLa ''Plot\ to be found. Instead, you've got the basic John Belushi collegiate predicaments, only- on a high school level: .the .first broken romance, sex, sneaking out the bedroom window at night, sex, hanging out in video arcades; sex, designer jeans, and sex. You get the picture. Although the film focuses on which stiffens penalties tor counterfeiters. Prison terms will jump to five . years. and personal fines wi.U increase dramatically to a q~er of a. million dollars. Corporate fmes would be set at a whopping one million dollars. Manufacturers hope Congress passes such a bill and that the new law Will reduce the coun- terfeiting trend. They want to spread the information that fake la~ling is no longer an easy way to make a buck. C~llege Stores Changing Campas Dfgest News Service College boOkstores just aren't what they used to be. They're better. Once thought to be just a place to bu.y books, paper and pencils at the start of each semester, college stores today are expanding their inventory in an effort to make students regular cuStomers. Many of the major college stores across the country now carry anything from sporting goods to calculators, makeup and personal items to record albums, candy to clothing. That's in addition to all the things you would expect to be able to buy there as well- books, calendars, school sup- plies, art and engineering supplies. Part of the reason for the change in inventories is that No Loans? Campus Digest News Service With student aid having been cut back in several areas, there is a lot less money available this school year. The Guaranteed Student Loan program is the largest federal student aid program. A new loan rule prohibits students from families with incomes of $30,000 or more from applying for guaranteed loans, tmless there are unusual circumstances of financial need. Many students have heard of the $30,000 rule and not applied, when, actually, they might be eligible. Unless President Reagan signs the appropriations bill which would provide extra money for the Pell Grants program, and the Supplemental Educational Opportunity Program, many students will be unable to receive financial aid. This will probably cause a decrease in the number of lower-income students applying at more expensive schools and private colleges, and instead lilcrease the number applying at community colleges and \cheaper\ schools. college stores .cwant to become more .important to students. students often have a large amount of disposable income. 'l;'he managers of ro.Uege stores are competing for the. student's business with all kinds of specialty and department stor-es. The more variety of items the c.ollege stores can offer when a student comes in to buy his books, the more money they will make. But more im• portant is the likelihood that the student will return .for more purchases throughout the semester. Most college stores .are right on or near campus, so they have an advantage in location over their town counterparts. Students travel .past their store . sometimes--many times a day- going ~o and from classes. .So; the more merchandiSe the store· can use to entice the students to stop by between classes, the better. Students appreciate the services offered by most larger college boc)kstores, also. Being able to cash a check, mail letters, buy school supplies, check out current reading material, as well as buy magazines, newspapet.s, albums, snacks, health and beauty· aids, sporting · goods, gifts, and much more all in one place is extremely convenient. After all, < students are often rushed for time just like any other consumer, so one-stop shopping is appealing to them. IAJA ~·~f, IMIA €Jeeo~0_FEMIJfJR_IUM 109 Canal Square, Broadway, Sch'dy. Phone: 374-4332 ePlZZA • N. Y.S Style a·~ cut 4.25 5.25 5.25 . 5.25 5.25 5.Z5 5.25 5.25 5.25 Sicillian Style (Deepdiah) 12\ cut 24\ cut Cheen Ex.Choese S.uaare Mushroom Pt!pperon} Green Peppers Mutballs ·Onions Anchoviea A.ny Add lt~m. Papa Cicco's Deluxe :is us s.oo 8.50 6.00 10.00 6.00 10.00 6.00 10.00 6;00 10.00 6.00 10\.00 s:oo 10.00 6;00 10.00 6.00 . 10.00 1.00 1.58 10;95 . JS.Ot r--~-~-------~-~------~~---~--~-------~--~ I FREE MERCHANDISE I I Every time you get a plzu or Sllndwlches valued at more f\-n ·I ~ $4.00 you Will receive 11 coupon • save them for Free .Merchandise. 1 I tl 1 15 Coupons 18 cut Free (cheese only) 1 20 CouP.QRS 112 cut Free Ccheese.Qnly) : I 25 Cou~ 1 2.4 cut Free p lngredlilnt) 1 1 50Collpons 1 12kegofbeerC3daysnotlceJ 1 : 100 Coupcifll PI~ Party for 25 people. with beer at your : [~-------------~-----~~~~~~~!~-~~~-~~~~---~ WE DELIVER ON CAMPUS PHONE 37 4-.4332 many of the more generic high school characters and situations (the '~school nerd,'; first elates, working- at -fA hamburger stand), the· gist of the action .centers around the absurdly hilarious war-i>f-wits constiUltly occuring. between the doped•Up slll'fer kid, Spikole (Sean Penn}, and the infamous Mr. Hand {Ray, \My Favorite Martian\ Walston}, a much- despi$ed. history teacher at Ridgemont. Together, the two are· a cla~ic: · Spikole is th~ perfect example of the kid your mother always warned you about (or, as a Ridgemont kid puts it,. \This guy's been stoned Since _the third grade!), with his ''Hey, bud, let's party!\ and \Don't hassle it, Mt. Hand!'' attitude literally stealing the show, On the other end of the spectrum is Mr. Hand, a discipline-oriented, pain-.in•tbe- rear teacher who is convinced the world is on dope. Although Diet Coke Campus Digest News Service Coca-Cola has plans to spend nearly 50 million dollars in- troducing its new Diet. Coke soft drink. · \Just for the taste of itn are the words launching the new~st . entry in the diet cola categ9ry of soft drinks. Coca-Cola introduced Diet Coke to bOttlers and distributors at a Radio City Mu$c Hall extravaganza in late suinmer. \The World Premier of Diet Coke,\ as it was called; in· clud(l(l the Rockettes,. Bobby .SbQrt: .. ~nd an. orcn~sfra all sirigjflg.fhe praises. ()t_tJ1e new drink. Future Diet Coke television programs will feature highlights from the show. other television advertising for the new drink will highlight stars enjoying Diet Coke, without the stars being iden .. tified by name. \Taxi\ star Judd Hirsch and hookey star Phil Esposito are among the stars featured in the com- mercials. Whether or not Diet Coke will greatly hurt the sales of: Diet Pepsi, Tab, Diet Shasta and all of the others ·in the already- crowded field remains to be seen. But Coke sure is bettinga lot of money on it. . BE IN THE- FOREFRONT OFTODAY'S TECHNO lOG~ ASAN AIR FORCE ENGINEER not on screen together a~ mqcb as you would. like. to see them, -thes~ two definitely supply the po.wer to this high-v:oltage, fast .. movlng comedy. . . . ·Fans of. such arti.$t8 as the. Go-: Go~s.. Jackson Br,owne, .Jc,e Walsh, Sammy Hag~r; · ;Qqar;.. terflash, and .· The C~s· will ~eltght to the movie's .superblY- scored background. track. . One reas.on for Fasr-Tigt¢.s~ sudden bwst in popularity is that it pairits a vivid .and terribly realistlc pictlU'e of high· school life, as American .Qrafltti dic;l ten· years ago, The~~e is one important difference between these two fibns, however; while American Grafltti was suitable for parents and kjdS alike, you'd better leave the folks home on this one. After all,. you don't want them to .see . what you really did back in bigh school, do you? Puz~le Answer Want to know all the new things for locking in freshness? Come to-a TUPPERWARE PARTY·!. Sun., October 3rd at 7:00pm in the DG Jiving roo~. Refreshments will be served Our engfuee~g officers are planning and designing tomo:rrow's weapon systems today. · Many are seeing their ideas and concepts mflterialize •. They have the finest; state-of- the-art equipment to test their theories. The working envirQnment is conducive to research. And Air Force experience- is second t~ none. You can be part of this dynamic team if you have an engineering degree.. Your· fitst step will be Officer Training &hoot. Help .us shape our .future as we help you start yours. Be an engineering offi~r m the. Air Force. Contact · · your Air Force recruiter at 518-472-4484, SSgt. MiJ.ce B·obrinitz. Call Collect. \I' - Kristi .·~ ha Be $3 ·Be $3 sc $2

much them, jJy the ~. fa$t .. he.G~ Joe Q.mlr;., ~~ wiil ,imes~ ·is and higb- one while able you'd don't you ~hool, - . ~E Kristina Frantz spikes it at the Albany Tourney \ AT MOHAWK MALL 374-3589 M-F 9 a.m.-8 .p.m. Sat. 8 a_.m.-6 p.m. Precision Cat and Blow· $.12. 00 Reg. $15.00 Body or Curly Perms · . $32. 00 ·. includes precisio~ hairc~t Reg. $40.00 (long Ha1r Extra} . ·Beard and Mustache Trims $3.00 Reg. $5.00 Sculptured Nails: $25.·0.0 Reg. $35.00 · or try one for $2.50 · . .... ~'! • ~. ,.· •• ~.: • . i. 10, 1981 Albany Tourney and Back By «l. GIFFORD Sports Staff This past week was a very long ·week for Union's varsity v:olleybaU squad as they travelled to West Point for two matches on Sept. 22 and then on to the Albany Tournament for three matches on Sept. 25. At West Point, the team faced St. Francis (Div. Il) and Army (Div, II) .. St. Francis proved to be a very quick defensive squad providing a challenge for Union but Union quickly adjusted to · the situation and won 7-15, 15-7, 15-12. Army was ready for a very .psyched Union squad and the result was a super match that had bo~h. squads playing excellent volleyball. The end - had each team struggling for points but Army just squeezed by to win 8-15,. 16-18. After a good day at Army, the squad travelled home with high ex- pectations for the Albay Tourney. At Albany, the squad got off to a ve~;\Y slow start against Fordham (Div. HI). That match ended with Fordham lntramurals Are Fun! . J• • I I .o1n.n. winning 15-0, 15-9. The he:d match versus Rutgers-Newark (Div. II; proved to be the best of the day. Union came alive and played a great offensive game but Rutgers proved to be a bit .stronger winning 6-15, 1a,1s. The last match of the day had Union facing Cornell (Div. I). Cornell was too strong and too powerful for Union and easily won 3-15, 1-15. This past Natalie' Stone determ.ined ·to win '; ... • <_._ ... '~ . weekenddroppedtheteam to a 2-4 overall record but the ex- perience of playing higher division teams Will become an asset when Union travels to Vassar and New Paltz · this Thursday· to hopefully raise their record to 4-4. The next home match is this Monday, Oct. 4 at 7 p.m. against a very tough Siena team. Be there and help cheer Union on to victory! .... _ ';· ., . . _ .... Aim to Improve The women's tennis te~ under second year coach Leslie Arakelian is looking forward to its best season ever. Coach Arakelian feels her team has the potential to greatly improve Ia~ year's winning record of 6- 5, Students for Israel , Meeting , __ Night October 6th 7:30pm Davidson , Dorm Lounge The tennis team's optimistic outlook is prompted by the return of first singles player, · Julie Miller, and three strong competitors from last season: rita Lindenburg, Alissa Calabria and Linda. Esposito. Arakelian remarked · that \.dept)) is perhaps the team~s greatest strength this fall.\ The addition of promising up- perclassmen Beth Houseman, Nancy Judson, Pam Mare~!$ and Kathy Furst and freshmen Peggy Belanoff and . Ca~ol THE WORLD IS Verden should provide the depth necessary for another winning year. The season opener, Monday, against Hamllton was .post- poned until October 20. The Du.tchwomen look forward to tough matches at Division II. Albany State on Wednesday and at Colgate on Thursday. The next match on Union's courts is October 11 against Vassar. Come out and support women's tennis! UR CAMPUS ~~'.,.,. AROUND THE WORLD: sails Spring 1983 (January 26·May 6) Port Everglades, Florida • Cadiz, Spain Pit-aeus, Greece • Alex;andria, Egypt • Haifa, Israel • Bombay, India • Colombo, Sri Lanka • Manila, Philippines • Hong Kong •Keelung, Taiwan. • Kobe, Yokahnma Japan Spo11sored by the University of Pittsburgh, Semester ot Sen offers students 0 superior full •<;mester academic prosrain and snpportinl! field experiences .. This one semester experaence Is. available to qualified st11dents from all accredited colleges and univer· sities. . More than 60 voyage rela.ted universil,Y courses, Fqculty drawn from the University of . Pjttsburllh and othe< leadmg·unlverslties, augmented by visiting area experts. Optlqnahours, Including special tours into the People's Republic of China, available . . Semester at Sea admits students without regard to ·tolor, race qr· creed. The S.S. Universe is fully alr·condllloned, 18,000 tons, registered In Liberia· and built In America. · $ For .a.free color I!tochure, wr!tiit SemeAter at Sea,UCiS, Unlverslt)' of Pltlsbnrgh, Forbes Quadrangle, ·Pittsburgh, PA 15260, or c:all loll free (8001 854-0195 (In California call (714) 771·6590).

Page 18 September 30, 198iJ WOMEN'SSi Field H,o,ckey Strategy: ,A 'Potent Attack' By DYKEMAN Sports Staff The Varsity Field Hockey . Team opened .its 1982 season in the most positive way; by winning their first two games. The team exhibits a pOsitive attitude and a strong desire to win which Coach Marty Morrison .feels was less ap- parent in last year's squad. In their opening game under the lights last Friday night the Union squad to~lly dominated the \ladies\ from Skidmore and won 2-(), The tJnion.;.Skidmore rivalry always means a fast paced intensive game and Friday night was no exception. Union was visibly pumped as they sprinted, skipped, and shot their way through warmups. From the first whistle Union outhustled an.d outplayed the team from Skidmore. Sophomore Diane Moskaluk register,ed the first goal of the season with 25:35left in the half with senior c~aptain Susan Ensel earning the assist. Union sustained an attack and kept the ball inside the twenty five yard line for several minutes at a · time. This ability will be paramount to the Dutchmen's success. The constant offensive pressure wears out the team's opponents while allowing the defense to gain proper positio~g. A few times during the .game Skidmore broke through the · defense but was unable to fire the ball past Union's senior goaltender- Kathy Bentley. The defense, Think about it. You've got to call up and order your pizza Put on your coat and hat. Fire up the car. Battle traffic for a couple of miles. Pick up your pizza- if it's ready. But wait- you're not finished yet. Get back in the car. Drive home. Take off your coat and hat. All this before you can enjoy your pizza, if it's still hot by then. Now, do you call that easy? anchored by senior Bernadette Albanese, hustled back and properly positioned itself, thus forcing Skidmore to make nwnerous errors. Captain Ensel, a .formidable sweeper, played her usual strong consistent game, dispersing play to both sides of the field and occasionally shooting through the lines to originate the point of attack. Senior Julie DelOeo and sophomore Carolyne Gilbert, t•he defensive baeks, bl)th played smart games as they maintaii'red deep field position forcing Skidmore to try going through several waves of Union players. Freslunan Jl!lie Fitz- . simmons played a strong match in her spot as long as she con- tinually frl,lstrated opponents with her ability to st~ru the ball and send it speedily to the at• tack. .Both senior Emily Monosson and freshman Cheryl WashbUI'n did a fine job of carrying the ball upfield, .skillfully avoiding defense with well executed fakes and dodges .. The final goal of the evening came at 12:49 in the second baH as sophomore Moskaluk crossed the ball in front of the goal and freshman Washburn slammed it past the Skidmore goalie. Both coaches Morrison and Lynne Wertz were pleased by the entire team's effort. They felt that although Skid- more had a strong team it was unable to establish any lasting attack due to Onion's. aggressive play. Domino's Pizza has a better idea. Call us. Order a hot, delrcious pizza and we'll deliver it to your door within 30 minutes at no extra charge. Fast ... Free Delivery 372·4441· 127 Nott Terrace Hours: 4:30 ·1 :00 Sun.- Thurs. 4:30 • 2:00 Fri. - Sat Coke/ 16oz. cups·25¢. r···----~-----·-··---~-, . I I I I $1.00 off any pizza ·1 I One coupon per pizza 1 I Expires: 10/10/82 1 I I 1 Fast, Free Delivery 1 I 127 Nott Terrace I Dtlver's·carty under$10. Lirpited delivery area 25530/3304 I . I I S :. ® I I · I .. _. _____________________ ... . On Monday afternoon the field hockey team defeated a very . powerful squad from Hamilton by a 2•1 margin. Coach MorrisOn felt that Unio.n played a very sloppy wide open first half but that the Colonials from Uamilton were unable to capitalize on this. Goalie Kathy Bentley was instrumental in Union's victory as she played a strong, steady · game and her \scrappy'' nature allowed only one goal. Finally, after halftime, the Union squad settled down to play , .its of- fensive game and, stymied the Hamilton attack with a bard· driving defense. Plane Moskaluk collected the first point with her intense .play el)ough to win even when around: the goal after She - missing starting plaYers. deflected a Sue Ensel shot from Tbis·weekend Union. begins.a the top of the circle. The final g.rueling five game away Union tally was recorded a few stret~h against such powers as minutes. later· as Moskaluk the University of Rochester,. crossed the ball and senior Middlebury and Oneonta. Holly Howard drove it futo the Tomorrow the team will be nets. Freshman Charlene Sch• travelling to Aurora, New York weder, Janet Schleferdecker, _ to . face Wells College~ The and sophomore Chris Hartley Yellowjackets .from Rochester plus junior Kay ''Star'' LYnch will be challenged on saturday. · all played well coming off the None of these games are Viewed bench. all \easy'' but the Union .field · Coach Marty Morrison was hockey team has shown they especially pleased with the .play have a potent attack and· a of these pepple for it ·has added . stingy defense that can Qnce. to-the needed d(lpth of the team , ~gain. bring the winning and shown -that it is· strong tradition back to Unio.n. Julie Fitzsimmons gives her all while Bernadette Albanese, Sue Ensel, and Char.lene Sc::hweider come to her ai~. I 0 .... 0 >.!: ·c. ...: ~ - - I 0 the Got _Hat Div Coil 30 tt ThE fre~ outc wit I 27:4 and line I Cont Ti the on 1 this clul an E was use< Rug rugg ....! ....! ....!

hen as be The ster •. · a 0 0 .s:. Q 1- 0:: . . Harriers LQse ByD.i>. Sports Staff. On Saturday, .September 25th, the Uhion College Men's Cross country team traveled to . Hamilton, New York to take on Division I powerhouse Colgate. Colgate edged the Dutchmen 25- 30 to improve thew record to ~-2. The Dutchmen were led by freshman Bill McRoberts who· outdistanced the rest of the field with a ·· .first .place finish in 27:41.3. Seniors Denny Contois and bave Dellehunt ¢rossed the line with fifth and seventh place finishes, respectively, while freshmen Chris O'I>otmell ~nd Tim Orcutt' captured the eighth and ninth spots. Rounding out Union's top seven were Paul · Palaszewski and Mark Craw who· notched thirteenth and fou.rteenth place finishes. Other Dutchmen finishers were: Dave Stanland, fifteenth; Paul Weil, sixteenth; Chris Sawchuk, seventeenth; Ji'm Mann, nineteenth; and PhU Gist, twentieth. The Dutchmen will battle Middlebury this Saturday, Oc.tober 2nd at Central Park. BTe-amWins Continued from page !0 The team· then scrimmaged the Schenectady Reds' B team on Tuesday night. Not only w~s this a good experience for the club, but it also turned out to be an educational qne 8$ the team was able to pick up some plays :used by the experienced Reds. The RFC will be home again Saturday as it will try to even its record with· a victory against . the travelling Albany Medical School ruggers. The game will be played on l-ibrary Field at one o'clock. · Rugby co-captain John Tierney fights to halt Rhinebeck rugger as Carl Aiken looks to assist. \ Diane Moskaluk QyD.HURLEY Sports Staff' This week's Athlete of the Week honors are shared by Diane Moskaluk of the Union College field hockey team, ·and Dan Stewart of the Dutchmen football team. · Greek Week Games Schedule ' Greek Week Volleyball Schedule Greek Week Boat Races Alexander Field Rain Dat-e Oct. 9 Thursday, Oct. 8 tom, QC'f, 6 P!U. OCf. 8 Sl' •DC I 2100.-, L ~ I PU r •.. 2·~ . \\ \\ l 2t)O l .. I -= I ... ~ ,. DP I )oOO l '\\ I \\ I . .... -- •2s)O \\ -. - \-- ~ -- - - -- -1 )0:)0 I IS I \ I 5•00 -!!L - 4ooo I' ... I P<ID I . , ... \\ .. I .. ,.. I \\' I lA I ··JO ••• . ., . I 5•00 I ... I r .5130- ..S-1'bal, .... l•JO ( . !oteri tlaJ' m Sl't PlaDt CP . ..... I 5•)0 . I \\' I ' . \\ _I - ·-·--·· .. ·-·- ' Greek Week Ultimate Schedule Greek Week Tug of War Schedule Alexander Field Rain Date Oct. 9 Alexander Field Oct. 9- Rain Date Oct.lO •· ggzt § Wt 2211 § .. PO ••C!OIO> - I ..... I .. I ..... I ·- 2tOOpa . .z..a<t .. - .. 21)0 T U!:115 I PDf I ... I . ~·- )100 ... me . )101 I I 1~i!I:JD L . l'li I. ... f .- .. ,. 2tl.5 .. ••• ,,,. l 121~5 ~ \\ r. - 5•0o )t;JO \' .. I ..•• oO. I 1IOCS I .. I - I .... , ... \\ 21]0 .. ,. I ·to\ .I ~~~~ I - I I -.,. )11, -· .. ... I S•lb ~-6.lntl blllft!l . I 'iii,S .•Ml•t!nd lOMf'li l•OO h,. r tiQ' tor )rd··pliiCe D I. - tor:JriplOio•. D (. ... .)1;10 iii! 21\'' I I ,,,o _!'!._ ___ -~~' _I _;!\ ___ \ ···---'· ... ·sPORTS Athl-ete of the Week Dan .Stewart Diane Moskaluk is one of thP. main reasons· that the field hockey team is 2-0~ She ·has figured in all of Union's scoring to date. Diane recorded a goal and an assist in the '2.0 seaSQn opening victory vs. Skidmore. She again scored a goal and had an assist in the 2•1 victory over Hamilton. Diane, a sophomore computer science major, was a letter winner last year on Coach Marty Morrison's field hockey team. She previously played her field hockey at Massapequa High School, where as a senior, she was the team MVP and qualified for both the All- Conference and All-County teams. Best of luck to Diane and the field hockey team for the · remainder of their season. Sophomore quarterback Dan Stewart had another out- standing game Saturday as the Dutchmen defeated Hobart 4g.. 14. For his performance, Stewart became the first Dutch- man to receive weekly honors this year as he was named to the ECAC weekly \Honor Roll.\ Stewart completed 11 of 19 passes fQr 200 yards and two touchdowns as the Dutchmen increased their record to 2..(}~ He has a two game total of 18 completions in 31 attempts (58 percent) for 307 yards, four touchdowns and only one in- terception. \Danny has really matured,\ says rookie coach AI Bagnoli. \He is much more poised this year and runs the offense very well. The rest of the players look up to him.\ Dan is a graduate of Norwin (PA) High, where he was a three-year letter winner in football, basketball and tennis. He is currently an engineering major and a brother of the Delta Upsilon Fraternity. Soccer Falters Continued from page 20 ensuing penalty kick. Union shot well thtoughout the first half and easily could have had a 1-0 lead going into halftime except for the two defensive errors that led to both of Cortland's first ·half goals~ The Dutchmen offense Was stifled in the second half as Cortland's long ball strategy led to one second stanza goal and many other scoring op- portunities that were knocked away by Dutchmen goalie Rick Russell. Union came away from their home opener with a 3-1 loss and the realization that things would get tougher as they were to travel to West Point on Saturday to take on a very tough Division I Army squad. The Dutchmen and the well- conditioned and hard tackling Cadets battled to a scoreless halftime deadlock. Union dominated the first half as forwards Peter Stegemann, Dave Sheridan and halfbacks Mike Lewis, Rich Edwards and Andy Dreher led the attacking Dutchmen offense. The Cadets came out strong in the second half and got two goals to defeat Union 2..0. Rick Russell played a . fine game in goal for Union as he was shelled with shots throughout the second half by Army forwards. Russell suf- fered a back injury in the second half against Army that will most likely keep him out of the Wednesday, Oct. 20 game at Hamilton, a team that this year's seniors have never . beaten. On a brighter note, the Dutch- men JV squad opened their seas_on last Saturday witb a hard fought 3-2 victory over the Engineers from RPI. The fighting J's take their unbeaten record on the road this week . against Hamilton and Hart- wick. Delta Upsilon's 69th Annual ''FALL'' PARTY Saturday, October 2, 10 pm Drink Till You Fall Beer, Wine, Punch, Soda BEAT Albany State Schedules- abbreviations list Alpha Delta Phi-~ADP Beta Theta Pi--BTP Chi Psi--CP Delta Chi--DC Delta ·Phi;.-op Delta Upsilon--DU Kappa Alpha--KA Kappa Sigma--KS Phi Delta Theta-~PDT Phi Gamma Delta--PGD Phi Sigma Kappa-- PS K Psi Upsilon--PU Sigma Chi--SC Sigma Phi--S.P Theta Delta Chi--TDC Zeta Beta Tau--ZBT

Page 20 OONO.OBDlENSlS, September 80, 1981 • • • Dutchmen Crush Hobart 49-14 Union, Albany St. Clash Sat • .,- By LOU GEORGE Sports Staff This Saturday the Dutclunen will travel to Albany St. to meet the Great Danes in a very important Capital District battle. Both teams are holding records of 2,.0..0 and have proven to be offensive powers in their first two games of the season. In last year's battle Union edged Albany St. (10-7) in a defensive struggle. After reviewing last wee~'s statistics, this Satur- day's game could prove to be an offensive showcase. Union has scored 76 points to their op- ponents' 21 while Albany St. has scored 60 to their opponents' 7. Last Saturday Union's strong and steady defense combined with a high-powered, un~ conservative offense to trample the Hobart Statesmen 49-14. on the first play from scrimmage, Dan Stewart threw a 40 yard strike to Walt Frederick (3 receptions for 65 yds.) who was streaking down the sideline. This did not result in a score but displayed the type of offensive game plan the team had. Union's first score came when Stewart found receiver Rich Kellaher (3 receptions for 41 yds.) on a 20 yard touchdown completion. Mark McKelvey's touchdown conversion (1 of 7 pts.) gave Union a 7-0 lead. The Dutchmen increased their lead to 14-o when defensive stalwart George Ob~rstadt had his second interception in as many games. Union took over at midfield and six plays later John Johnson 22 yards for the tou.ch(fo\\rn. The came with 2: quarter on yard run. , set up on a from Ordines to &;t:..::otav Late in Dutchmen door to three t minutes lockerroo a 50 completion. Bogan gave the a tremendous op- portunity to score when he blocked a Hobart punt on the 21 yardline and Steve Bodmer rambled to the 10. Mike Wells scored three plays later from one yard out. With less than three minutes to play in the first half, John Johnson scored his second touchdown of the game on a five yard burst. Hobart's last score of the game came with 30 seconds left in the half · when Scott Geise caught his second touchdown pass from Randy Ordines. There were only two touch- downs scored in the second half. The first was in the third Union's tenacious defense swarmed all over the Hobart Statesmen, holding them to 29 yards rushing on 31 carries. ... Looking for first win quarter when BiH Huttner scored his second touchdown of the afternoon on a two yard run. George Capozzi scored the last touchdown on a 38 yard sprint up the middle. An hn . fact · to the Dutchmen won game without three star. ters: Tom Quirk (offensive tackle) who missed the game with a. hairline fracture of the lower leg, Tim. Williamson (linebacker) who misSed the game due to a serious neck injury and fullback Steve Olsen who was dressed but not used. Coach Bagooli was obviously resting Olsen's injury for the important matchup against Albany, The depth of the Union football team is quite good and could be conclusive in the battle they will face this weekend. Store .by periods: Htbart 7 7 t t-14 Union 14 21 1 7-49 li - Kelleher, 20 .pass ·from Stewart (McKelvey kick) · U - Johnson, 22 run (M!:Kelvey kick) H - Kotnlg, 1 run (Carpenter klckl u ~ Huttner, SO pass fr0111 Stewart (McKelvey kick) U -Wells, 1 run (McKelvey kick) U - John50n, 5 run (McKelve.y kiclo:·l H- Geise, 11 pass from·Ordines !Car1141~ · ter kick) U -·Huttner, 2 run (McKelvey kick) U -Capozzi, lltun (McKelvey kick) STATISTICS HtbJr1 Unltn First downs 14 21 Rushes·yarc~s 31- 29 51•325 Passing ytr.ds 179 200 Passes 15-31-2 11'19-0 Reiurns yards 20 13 Punts average 10-34.0 5-37.2 Fumbles.losl 1 2 Penalties-yards 12-100 13- 95 Soccer Continues to Struggle By SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff Union's Varsity Soccer squad has gotten off to one of the slower starts in recent years with an early season record of 0- 4. Despite getting the first score The Student Forum is sponsoring buses round trip to SUNY at Albany on Saturday, October 2 for the UNION vs. ALBANY footba.H gqme Charge is,$1.00 First come first served Sign up in Student Activities BuSies leaving Alumni Gym at 12:30 in their home opener, a very skilled Cortland squad came back to score three unanswered goals to defeat the Dutchmen on the turf of Alexander Field. Halfback Bernie Zeifang tallied his second goal of the season early in the first half as the Garnet jumped out to a quick 1-0 lead. Zeifang?s instep dri:ve that just eluded the Cortland goalie puts Zeifang into sole possession of twelfth place on the all-time Dutchman scoring list. Cortland soon retaliated a minute later as a Dutchrilan defensive mixup let the visitors tie the score at l·L Cortland ·then controlled much of the remaining first half and went ahead by a 2·1 margin as Ist'\i\an Tamoga saved a loose . ball in front of the goal with his hand and Cortland capitalized on the iconttnued on page Despite unsuccessfully arguing this call, AI ~agnoli has 'been successful in his firsttwo outir:~gs.as head foot~ll coach·. Union 49 SCOREBOARD FOOTBALL (2-0) SOCCER (0-4) Hobart l4 -UnjonO .Union 1 Army2 Cortl~nd 3 CROSS-COUNTRY (0-1) Unlon25 Colgate 30 Rhinebeck 13 RUGBY (0-1) UnionO ... Home vs. Albany Med, Sat. Rugby Drops Opener BySC Sports Staff Penalties and inexperience hurtthe Rugby Football Club as it opened its fall season with a 13-0 loss to the Rhinebeck RFC. The Union defense beld strong throughout the opening minutes of the first half, but it wasn't enough to hold back the con• tinuous surges of the visiting Rhinebeck team. At the midway point in the first half, Rhinebeck brought the ball down deep into Garnet territory, but play was stopped on a Union penalty. Again Union was able to hold the opposition off forcing a serum-down around the five yard mark. But this was all that the team could do. Rhinebeck won the serum and the serum- half grabbed the ball and squirmed through the· defense putting the ball down for the first try. The conversion kick was good and Rhinebeck was on top 6-0 .. Minutes later, the exact _same thing almost happened. Rhinebeck surged downfield toward their goal. A union off- side penalty stopped play and the visiting team was allowed to run a play on Union's two-yard. mark. After locking into a maul, Rhinebeck's serum was able to work the ball back once again to its .serum-half. The scrwn·half took it and dove over the goal line extending the ball into ~he endzone. The conversiOn missed, · though, giving Rhinebeck a ten point lead. Th~ visiting team scoreclonce again in the_ second half on another penalty when it made a penalty kick from thirty yards out. Union's offense also bad its trouble all afternoon. Occasionally the club would bring the ball .downfieldj get within scoring range, then lose it and fail to score, Adding to that, Union's outside center Rich Mintz was injured· just as the half ended. Whether he'll be returning this season has yet to be determined. The B game was a totally different story. The Garnet ruggers, made up mostly of inexperienced .players, came storming back to avenge the first game's loss. The B team outran, outpassed, and most of all, outhit the · opposing Rhinebeck team. Tim Meyer's score early in the first half was the first of two for Union in this game, but it was all that the team needed. This is because _ while the Garnet offense con- tinorisly put the pressure on, the defense held strong and. im- permeable for a worthy shutout. It should also be noted that Meade Sununer played_ a very imoressive game. ~ontinued on. page 19 ~ ~~ t,~ ~()· ~.a..~ e,,o ~ - SPORTS HAPPENINGS Sept. 30-0ct. 6 Va r. Football J.V. Football Va.r. Soccer J. V. Soccer Cross Country· Rugby Oct. 2 at Albany St. 1:30 Oct. l Middlebury 3:00 Oct. 2 Binghamton 2: 00 Oct. 6 Albany St. 7:30 Oct. 4 at Hartwick 3:00 Oct. 6 Albany St. 3:30 Sept. 30 at Albany lnv. 12: oo Oct. 2 Middlebury 1: oo Oct. 2 Albany Med. 1! oo - ex - John. - B B: In athle has~ chant Hark seve1 Admi Depa ascer role 1 such cone~ Sakal ever Colle1 tty in! qualil comv acade Colle{ is no and a Sak he car progrl treme in ten the Cc had t1 intern whatc to go.' One De par rebuil1 was to Engla1 Confer a men decidE memb they fe terms the rE NESCi allow~ have a the re Sakal a quality go tog, Amhet primar as the recognj theathl \I thin disadvc able to product had a' Saka. althoug ment .J

