toAl Ellis chain- opening 134-pound on Wrenn Cay ·to the Women's AH- of this past of they lL starter and 's squad, in a this points for In the the CD had 20 Albany markers s to the the con- Most leading Dut- points points a of 578 e of 17.5. Albany Rose. Dukehart Bill the DUke hart prior to Division New is player point only the win the has Skating this points on · and unit n of Mr. of ••• ' they a year of the , Feb.l6, to an Clinton intended by to irst four out to a small half. by fresh· Bartlett Wood page 19 • 1877 <:XI, No. 17 March 4, 1982 \ '>' Conduct Report Completed Rob Mondschein, Chairman of the Conduct Committee, recently presented the Committee's recommendations to the Administration. -~ ) By DOUG LANDON Staff A report concerning the events of January 3oth at Old Chapel has been compiled by the Conduct Committee. The committee's findings have been passed on to Acting Dean of Students Don Spring and President Morris. Those students and organizations against which accusations were made will be infonned of the outcome Within the next week. Spring must analyze the recummendations of the committee, and then make such decisions. Weldon Goes To Washington. By A.J. BRODSKY News Editor Weldon Turner, Student Forum President, was one of six thousand concerned students who participated in the National Student Lobby Day held this past Monday in Washington D.C. The day long event was organized by Congressman Peter Peyser, a Democrat from New York, and the Independent Student Coalition to protest the proposed Reagan cuts in federal student aid programs. Turner was the sole participant from Union. Although every state in the country was represented, half of the participants came from New York State. Of this New York block, approximately 150 were from RPI, almost 100 from Sienna, an extremely large group came from SUNY Albany and Skidmore had 20 representatives. It is recognized that New York would suffer the most damage from the proposed cuts and this accounts for the large turnout from this state. Turner's trip, sponsored by the Financial Aid Office, was organized by the RPI group that attended. Lobby Day, characterized by Turner as \not just a bunch of students with picket signs,\ involved not only a mass rally, but press conferences and in- formal door-to-door Congressional lobbying. What is in question is a reduction in Pell Grants, the elimination of the Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant Program, a 28 per cent funding cut in the College Work Study Program, and the establishment of a needs test to qualify for a Guaranteed Student Loan in addition to an outright denial of these monies for graduate students. Turner left RPI late Sunday night and arrived in Washington in time for an 8: 45 press con- ference with CARE, the Coalition Against Reductions in Education. ,Comprised of fresh- man Republicans in Congress, CARE denounces Reagan's spending priorities in the area of education. Specifically, CARE believes ''that education has taken a disproportionate share of cuts and that the reductions in education proposed by the Administration in the 1983 budget is unfair in relation to allocations in other budget areas.\ CARE members inclu.4._e Congressmen Jim Dunn, John LeBoutillier, Claudine Schneider, Raymond McGrath and Guy Molinari. Turner next attended a press conference at 9: 15 with Peter Pryser and several other CARE members. Turner was able to attend these press-oriented activities with a press card· supplied by Concordlensls. Peyser called the education cuts ''a betrayal of America's Peyser was aided in organizing the activities by the Independent Student Coalition. Led by Mike Caruso, ISC head in Albany, the group has taken up the cause of student aid cuts in addition to its other liberal issues. Although the College's stu-dent government is not allowed to be a member of the organization, a local representative is a member of the Union commwiity. Turner was finally able to turn his attention to area Representative Sam Stratton (D-Amsterdam) after several more conferences. Stratton opened his office to area students as did many of the members. from the Northeast and Midwest. Turner noted though, that the majority of the . . Weldon Turner, Student Forum President, was in Washington, Monday for National Student Lobby Day. values.\ The following is an excerpt from Peyser's news release: \The very future of our country is at stake and rests on the ability of the youth of America to tackle these complex problems. For this Administration to contend that the future of Ame1·ica is best served by denying students the means to start or to continue their higher education, is to to do a grave disservice to our country.\ members were not in their offices for the day. Turner stated that \everybody I spoke to was receptive to the students and seemed to support the cause.\ Turner added that Stratton was an exception to the rule. Turner criticized Stratton, in general, as being \elusive\ and without a \positive stance.\ Turner reported that Stratton played up the media and characterized his comments as \rhetoric.\ The following are Continued on page .2 After reviewing the report, Dean Spring commented that \my general impression of the report is that the basic finding of the Conduct Committee.shows that there was no systematic racism involved in the in- cident .. \ He added that although there were reports of verbal and physical escalation, no knowledge is available to link such conflicts with any certain group ( s) on-campus. Therefore, Spring concluded that Psi Upsilon cannot be held responsible for any events of that evening. Psi U President Chip Johns, upon learning of his fraternity's supposed innocence, defended the organization. ''Psi U as a fraternity was never charged with an official charge by the Conduct Committee as reported in Concordy; therefore, I have no comment on being cleared.'' Putting the question of official charges aside, enough evidence existed for Assistant Dean of Students Michael Andolina to question Johns on the incident. Dean Spring believes the original .allegations concerning the use of alcohol were exagerated.. The Conduct Committee's position is that the hired disc jockey brought with him several bottles of liquor whiche distributed without charge, implying that no alcohol was sold on the premises. He also interpreted the report to affirm BLAS member Thomas Asare's claim to have checked identification, and does not feel Asare should be held responsible for the actions of those who were refused admittance. The Dean made it perfectly clear, however, that he in no way defends Asare's judgement in the planning of the party. ·BLAS' stance of having disavowed the party in advance is also sub- stantiated in the report. Tuesday afternoon, Asare was confident that ' 'its going to be all right; I'm not going to be guilty,\ although he stated he had not yet been made aware of the Conduct Committee's fin- dings. After speaking with members of the committee, Spring believes that \in (the committee's) recommendat- ions, some of the respon- sibilities for what happened evaporated. They have suggested that the spirit of their recommendations was actually sterner than their actual recommendations. They felt it would be consistent with what they believe if I was a little sterner than their recom- mendations implied.\ He added that although he could not speak for President Morris, who was out of town and unavailable for comment, Morris did echo his sentiments · on some of the issues. If punitive action is to be directed toward any individual or group involved in the in- cident, it will be made known to those persons early next week. Council A warded By SUE BLOOMBERG Staff The Union College Panhellenic Council was awarded at the fifth annual Interfraternity Conference, held this past weekend at the Sands Hotel in Atlantic City. The Conference, which involved over 300 fraternity and sorority members and advisors throughout the Northeast, was held to award outstanding Greek systems and to deal with present issues facing Greeks on college campuses. The Union College Panhellenic Cooocil, which has been recognized for about one year and represents the three sororities on campus, received the award for outstanding Greek achievement. The competitors for this award included all the Nortbeastern colleges with two to six sororities on-campus, which had a recognized Panhellenic Council. The award was a significant honor because Union's Council is the youngest in the Northeast. The representatives from Union College included two IFC members, Jeff Demarco from Psi Upsilon and John Wheeler from Delta Phi, along with four Panhellenic representatives, Chris Tipe and Robin Scheman from Tri-Delta, Ann Czerw Continued on page .2 ;D-,E~ •.• ·~- .. ' ·- : C~ndut:t' C'O:,m'miif'~\~ttPt>rt • -~. <.;.~ }:.:>:·-:: . ,;- :.:,-: ' :.. • .:._\=t':. -·'.:,_ ~-- .· P· 3 p.4 p.4 , . ~l'!mo:t, \'~'\ :,~l~~,!~~~· :, :,: ·· c:Jr,tnel& C&rrections \ . ·Personals Sports pgs. 8 <Jnd 9 p. 12 p. 17 pgs. 18-20

Page 2 CONOORDIEN81S, March 4, 1981 Leaders ·Attend Workshop ' By NAOMI BLANK Editor·in..Chief The New York State Student Leadership Institute held a conference at Skidmore College on February 26 - 28. Joseph Laurin and Barton Levine were among the 150 students at- tending the various workshops last weekend. The students, all student leaders of some sort, traveled from colleges located throughout New York State. structured with respect to line items, Laurin explained. The two agreed that the students at Union remain fairly represented in the process and are thus able to \keep tabs\ on the financial situation.Laurin also noted \the power in our government seemed much more extensive ... we (the students) have a final say.\ While many other colleges' organizations are aided by faculty members, many of Union's organizations remain student-run. ditional concern that was discussed. Larin and Levine explained that many of the methods discussed may be directly applicable to Union's governing situation. The responsibility presently given to students and their organizations, however., seems to be · consistently stronger than schools of com- parable size. Levine and Laurin concurred that the workshop ·gave them a clearer ap- preciation of where Union government stands and the responsibility shared by its leaders. BartoA Levine Early in the weekend, the college representatives com- pared themselves to one another with respect to governmental structure and leadership. \We have a good thing going for us,\ Levine explained, as he noted Union students' control of their budget and its distribution. \We have freedoms that the other schools do not have . . . students have control (with respect to finance matters).\ The finance of Union's government is more The seminars also dealt with leadership responsibilities. and the problems with which leaders must deal. Discussions dealt with increasing govern- ment involvement and how to more efficiently run meetings. One method suggested · an evaluation of the meeting upon its completion to better un- derstand and improve its procedures. The improvement of election turnout was an ad- Turner Protests In D.C. .1osepn Laurin Greeks In N.J. Continued from page 1 from Sigma Delta Tau and Susan Bloomberg from Delta Gamma. Wheeler is also run- ning for area vice-president of the N.E.I.F.C. Both Jane Wood and Mike Adolina attended the conference as Greek advisors from Union College. The Conference held workshops on Saturday and Sunday, which dealt with all areas of Greek life such as Public Relations, rushing regulations, fund-raising drives, hazing policies, leadership and programming efficiency. Each program was headed by Greek advisors, college administrators and Fraternity Executive Direc- tors. The Conference allowed Greeks throughout the Nor- theast to share ideas and pressing the Conference, Union was able to find many representatives from schools with similar programs. Union's representatives were not only educated about Greek life in the Northeast, but also about the social ife in Atlantic City. Although they didn't .fare as well in the casinos, the Playboy Club offered some relief to their losses. Continued from page 1 selected questions and answers from the interview recorded by Turner: Turner: How will you vote on the appropriations bills coming before Congress? Stratton: Maybe you weren't here, but I have said it four or five times before. My plan is to not vote for any further cuts . . . the President will have a hard time getting this through because even the Republicans will not go for it. · Last year, the Republicans went 100 percent for everything that Reagan said. He said jump, and they said how high? Now many of the Republicans realize with the economy the way it is, they're in real trouble .from the point of view of the fall elections. Turner: What are the Democrats doing, forming some type of Coalition? Stratton: The Democratic leadership is, (pauses) un- fortunately not saying very much. They're taking the position that let the Republicans stew in their own juice. Turner: What have you done personally to offset the budget cuts? Stratton: I have already put a bill in to rescind a substantial part of the tax cut bill. If we can get some of that revenue back . . . we can cut the defecit substantially. The deficit is moving the interest rates up. It is keeping businesses from expanding and thriving. Turner: If it comes down to a choice between military · spending and student Reactions To Centrex II By MARCY BURSTINER Staff The new Centrex telephone system has recently been in- stalled in the College depart- ment and administration of- fices. There are many ad- vantages to the new system and the overall reactions have been quite good. Professors now have their own numbers instead of having to share lines with other faculty members. One complaint of the previous system was that faculty members were difficult to reach due to lines being tied up. Professors can now have their calls transferred to home phones or to the secretary upon leaving the office. The TICKET IN·FO For all ticket information call the n·ew STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOX OFFICE at extension 631 5 between the hours of 1 pm - 8 pm Monday - Sunday secretaries, in addition, can transfer incoming calls directly to the separate offices. Another advantage to the new system is that the push button design is easier and much more efficient. Additionally, there are more telephones to work with and the 2-way intercom system makes the job of the secretary less disorganized. On the whole, the system is as one secretary described it ''a more executive type of phone,\ and a \big improvement altogether.'' On the other hand, there have been some complaints, mostly stemming from the complexity of the centrex system. It seems the transferring and intercom procedures take some time to leam and calls are occasionally lost in the process. Assistant professors must still share lines and their phones are not con- nected to the secretary of the department. Generally, though, the centrex system seems to be working well and the reactions from the faculty and staff have been very optimistic. education ,programs, what would you do? It would only take two B-1 bombers, two MX missiles and one F~l6 to pay for all the Direct Student Loans. Stratton: If we don't have a country left. it isn't going to do much good. You've got to realize that defense is the first priority. If you don't have a country, _you don't have anything else. The fact of the matter is that the Russians are considerably ahead of us. If we don't catch up to them, they're already winning the ballgame in Europe. Our European allies are afraid to say boo to them. Needless to say, Congressman Stratton became more and more abstract in his attempt to elaborate his point. The last major event that Turner attended was the mass rally on the Capitol's steps at 5:00 in the evening. Speaker of the House Tip O'Neill addressed the crowd of six thousand as did many of the demonstration's organizers. Turner stated, that O'Neill ''attacked Reagan's policy in general, but the talk was just a bunch of rhetoric for an election year.\ National Student Lobby Day was covered by all major news services including the Washington area papers and such television networks as ABC and CBS. Turner urges all students to get involved. He recommended that three steps should be taken: 1. All must inform their parents about the issues at h~nd and encourage them to get in- volved. It is an election year. 2. Write your local newspapers so· that the communities involved will be aware of the situation and be able to take an effective stance. 3. Take advantage of the prewritten letters that will be distributed by Student Forum members at the beginning of Spring term. These letters will be directed at the respective Congressman and written by Turner with the aid of Bob Massa, Director of Financial Aid. Turner again stressed the, severity of the measures being proposed by the Reagan ad- ministration. Turner adamantly stated that ''the students must realize that there would be no more direct loans for graduate 1)chool; this would cut out graduate level education for 50 per cent of those who would normally attend.\ Additionally, Turner said that the across the board cuts would lower the Pell Grant's eligibility ceiling from $28,000 to $14,000. Furthermore, as a result of cuts in the Work Study Program, \25 per cent of the people who work on-campus would no longer have jobs.\ The possibility of students not returning to Union in the fall because of money may become very real in the near future. See 1 'Peanuts'' on pages 8 and 9

Page 2 CONOORDIENSIS, March 4~ 198! Leaders ·Attend Workshop By NAOMI BLANK Editor-ln-'Chief The New York State Student Leadershi!i> Institute held a conference at Skidmore College on February 26 - 28. Joseph Latuin and Barton Levine were among the 150 students at- tending the various workshops last weekend. The students, all student leaders of some sort, traveled f~:om colleges located throughout New York State. structured with respect to line items, Laurin explained. The two agreed that the students at Union remain fairly represented in the process and are thus able to \keep tabs\ on the financial situation.Laurin also noted \the .power in our government see1ned much more extensive . . . we (the students) have a final say.\ While many other colleges' organizations are aided by faculty members, many .of Union's organizations remain student-rtm. ditional concern that was discussed. Larin and Levine explained that many of the methods discussed may be directly applicable to Union's governing situation. The responsibility presently given to students and thek organizations, however, seems to be · consistently stronger than schools of com- parable size. Levine and Laurin concurred that the workshop 'gave them a clearer ap- preciation of where Union goverrunent stands and the responsibility shared by its leaclers. Barton Levine, Early in the weekend, the college representatives com- pared themselves to one an0ther with respect to governmental structure and leadership. \We have a good thing going for us,\ Levine e:x!i>lained, as he noted Union students' c0ntrol of their budget and its distribution. \We have freed0ms that the other schools do not have ... students have control (with respect to finance matters).\ The finance of Union's government is more The seminars also dealt with leadership responsibilities and the prebl:ems with which leaders must deal. Discussions dealt with increasing govem- ment involvement and how to more efficiently run meetings. One method suggested an evaluation of the meeting upon its completion to better un- derstand and improve its procedures. The improvement of election turnout was an ad- Turner Protests In D.C. Josepn Launn .:;: t : 1~ Greeks In N.J. Continued from page 1 from Sigma Delta Tau and Susan Bloomberg from Delta Gamma. Wheeler is also run- nrng for area vice-president of the N.E.I.F.C. Both Jane Wood and Mike Adolina attended the conference as Greek advisors from Union College. The Conference held workshops on Saturday and Sunday, which dealt with all areas of Greek life such as Public Relations, rushing regulations, fund-raising drives, hazing policies, leadership and programming efficiency. Each program was headed by Greek advisors, college administrators and Fraternity Executive Direc- tors. The Conference allowed Greeks throughout the Nor- theast to share ideas and pressing the Conference, Union was able to find many representatives from schools with similat· programs. Union's representatives were not only educated about Greek life in the Northeast, but also about the social ife in Atlantic City. Although they didn't fare as well in the casinos, the Playboy Club offered some relief to their losses. Continued from page 1 selected questions and answers from the interview recorded by Turner: Turner: How will you vote on the appropriations bills coming before Congress? Stratton: Maybe you weren't here, but I have said it four or five times before. My plan is to not vote for any further cuts . . . the President will have a hard time getting this through because even the Republicans will not go for it. · Last year, the Republicans went 100 percent for everything that Reagan said. He said jump, and they said how high? Now many of the Republicans realize with the economy the way it is, they're in real trouble from the point of view of the fall elections. Turner: What a,re the Democrats doing, forming some type of Coalition? Stratton: The Democratic leadership is, (pauses) un- fortunately not saying very much. They're taking the position that let the Republicans stew in their own juice. Turner: What have you done personally to offset the budget cuts? Stratton: I have already put a bill in to rescind a substantial part of the tax cut bill. If we can get some of that revenue back . . . we can cut the defecit substantially. The deficit is moving the interest rates up. It is keeping businesses from expanding and thriving. Turner: If it comes down to a choice between military spending and student Reactions To Centrex II By MARCY BURSTINER Staff The new Centrex telephone system has recently been in- stalled in the College depart- ment and administration of- fices. There are many ad- vantages to the new system and the overall reactions have been quite good. Professors now have their own numbers instead of having to share lines with other faculty members. One complaint of the previous system was that faculty members were difficult to reach due to lines being tied up. Professors can now have their calls transferred t() home phones or to the secretary upon leaving the office. The TICKET INFO For all ticket information call the new STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOX OFFICE at extension 6315 between the hours of 1 pm - 8 pm Monday - Sunday secretaries, in addition, can transfer incoming calls directly to the separate offices. Another advantage to the new system is that the push button design is easier and much more efficient. Additionally, there are ffi()re telephones to work with and the 2-way intercom system makes the job of the secretary less disorganized. On the whole, the system is as one secretary described it \a more executive type of phone,\ and a \big improvement altogether.\ On the other hand, there have been some complaints, mostly stemming from the complexity of the centrex system. It seems the transferring and intercom procedures take some time to learn and calls are occasionally lost in the process. Assistant professors must still share lines and their phones are not con- nected to the secretary of the department. Generally, though, the centrex system seems to be working well and the reactions from the faculty and staff have been very optimistic. education programs, what would you do? It would only take two B-1 bombers,. two MX missiles and one F-16 to pay for all the Direct Student Loans. Stratton: If we don't have a country left, it isn't going to do much good. You've got to realize that defense is the first priority. If you don't have a country, you don't have anything else. The fact of the matter is that the Russians are considerably ahead of us. If we don't catch up to them, they're already winning the ballgame in Europe. Our European allies are afraid to say boo to them. Needless to say, Congressman Stratton became more and more abstract in his attempt to elaborate his point. The last major event that Turner attended was the mass rally on the Capitol's steps at 5: 00 in the evening. Speaker of the House Tip O'Neill addressed the crowd of six thousand as did many of the demonstration's organizers. Turner stated that O'Neill \attacked Reagan's policy in general, but the talk was just a bunch of rhetoric for an election year.\ National Student Lobby Day was covered by all major news services including the Washington area papers and such television networks as ABC and CBS. Turner urges all students to get involved. He recommended that three steps should be taken: 1. All must inforiU their parents about the issues at hand and encourage them to get in- volved. It is an election year. 2. Write your local newspapers so· that the communities involved will be aware of the situation and be able to take an effective stance. 3. Take advantage of the pre written letters that will be distributed by Student Forum members at the beginning of Spring term. These letters will be directed at the respective Congressman and written by Turner with the aid of Bob Massa, Director of Financial Aid. Turner again stressed the_ severity of the measures being proposed by the Reagan ad- ministration. Turner adamantly stated that \the students must realize that there would be no more direct loans for graduate ~chool; this would cut out graduate level education for 50 per cent of those who would normally attend.\ Additionally, Turner said that the across the board cuts would lower the Pell Grant's eligibility ceiling from $28,000 to $14,000. Furthermore, as a result of cuts in the Work Study Program, \2a per cent of the people who work on-campus would no longer have jobs.\ The possibility of students not returning to Union in the fall because of money may become very real in the near future. See ''Peanuts'' on pages 8 and 9 1981-82SPR1NGTEIMREGISTIU.'Tl6NPROCEDURES Sptmg:tm:m c~lass~·~S· Will begin at 8:3oa.m. on M€1nday, Match · ·· ·. · be distributed to college mailboxes · do Mt reeeive a at the

I parents find and get in- >n year. spapers 1'unities ·e of the to take of the twill be ;tudent at the : term. lirected :lective ltten by of Bob nancial ed the. s being an ad- urner t \the tt there :t loans ; would ucation ;e who tend.\ id that ; would gibility ~14,000. of cuts tm, \25 .o work longer ility of 'Union money in the OONOOBDIENSIS~ March 4, 198$ Page 3 ·EXCLUSIVE Condwct Com mitt Reporttothe Dean EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is an exa~t transcript of the Conduct (ommittee's report to the Dean ·of Students regarding tbe incident ·Of January 3oth. The .proceedings and the following reporl are considered confidential under the goidelines of t}le Conduct Committee. A choice had to be made between waiting until next Spring to publish the public, censored version CJf the report, or risk dis<!iplinary action by printing what we have now. The January 30th incide11t has rece,ived much publieiiy in CONCORDIENSIS. Reports of accusations against individuals and groups were ,printed as were numerous fac1s that were subs-equently ,questio11ed. The following report contairui the most accurate and carefully investigated account of the incident, and deserves ex- posure. . The incident, although un- fortunate, was nonetheless one of the most controversial and newsworthy of the term. For this reason, ihe student com- munity's desire amd right-to- know, in our opinion, super- cedes the Conduct Committee's confidentiality in tills specific, well-publicized inci.tent. It should be noted that recommendations made by the Conduct Committee are just that-recommendations. It is ultimately the decision of the Dean of Students to (le,ermine and administer disciplinary actions (if any) based 011 the recommendations f ihe COltduct Committee. Actual decisions of the Dean cannot be publisb.e4 as they are protected under laws regarding individual priVacy. The responsibility of, CON- CORDIENSIS and any newspaper is to provide in- formation to its readers in an unbiased, factual way and to the best of its ability. Withh@lding this -report would be violating this responsibility. In the future, CON- CORDIENSIS will be printing generalized, term-end reports of Conduct <!ommittee proceedings as per a ,request by the Student Affairs Cou11eil. without consulting and receiving t:be acceptance of the BLAS leaders. He thought he could raise the money himself. Asare advertised on the Siena College Ramo Station (which is a powerful station that reaches beyond tlle Siena College community) as well as inviting other BLAS' at area schools, (This is a common practice for BLAS functions). According to Greg Grant and Louis Prez, upon realbing that such ad- vertising was underway, they told Asare to inform the BLAS' he had contacted that the party was cancelled. At about this time, it came to the attention ·Of the BLAS leaders that Asare had filled out a party per- . mission form naming BLAS as the sponsor of the party. With this information, BLAS leaders informed Asare to change the form. However, Grant admitted that he told Asare that he wc:mld attend Asare's party. Asare interpreted this to mean that BLAS members supported the party but they did not want the financial responsibility for it. In addition, Grant and Perez did not check up to see if As are bad carried out their orders to disavow BLAS as sponsors. Asare continued arrangeme11ts for the party. He hired a local D.J. who invited some friends to attend. Word of the party spread around \The Hill\ (Hamilton Hill, one of the worst secti()ns of Schenectady) as a result ()f the advertising on the Siena Radio Station and the invitations made by the D.J. (who told friends, who told other friends, etc.) Advertising did not clearly state that the party was only for college students. ldentification was reqired at the entrance of the party, but college identification was not required. In addition, Asare .marked on the party permission form that the party would be ()pen to \the college community\ (this Asare was obviously unfamiliar with the correct pr()cedure for planning such a party as well as a victim of the ambiguity of the party permission form. B. The Party P .G. The party was set up prior to I. MATERIAL FACTS A. Planning the Party .___ the start of the party. This in· eluded a \bar\ set up by tne D.J. and his friend, who acted in the capacity of a \bouncer\. Early Winter term, Th()mas Asare was told by BLAS to act as Social Chairman in pla~ming an event for Black History Month (BHM). 'The BLAS function was to be held on January 29, 1982. Asare believed that the party he was planning was to be the BLAS function for BHM. 'The leaders of BLAS (Greg Grant and Louis Perez) intended another type of event to serve as the BHM function. BLAShad 110 money in its treasury._ The leaders of BLAS relayed this inf()rmation According to the D.J. 's friend, the \bar\ consisted of two to four bottles of hard liquor in- tended to be given away to party guests. We as a com- mittee, however, cannot be sure that liquor was sold. Asare arrived at the begin- ning of the party. At this time, the D . .J. and \bar\ were already set up. Also, a handful of party guests had arrived. Asare maintains that the D.J. collected money from them. Upon his arrival, Asare took on the responsibility of checking I.D.'s of peCJple he did not know (A$areJ must take responsibility for tlte party. to Asare the Tuesday bef()IJe the party was to be held. At that same time; the leaders of BLAS informed Asare to cancel the party. The members of BLAS still wanted a party or some other function. Tom wanted to take a vote among BLAS members to decide whether or not to continue his party plans. The leaders of BLAS allegedly reflected Tom's suggestion to take a vote because there was no quorum present. Acting on the general BLAS mem- bership's attitude in favor of the part;y, As are continued to plan and collecting money at the door for tlle duration of the party. The D.J.'s friend helped Asare and at times walked around the .party to make sure everything was going smoothly. College l;D.'s were not required. 'Therefore, the D.J. and his friends, Union students, other area college students, and \Townies\ with proof of age were allowed to attend the party. Asa:r:e maintains that he turned away all people witbout proof of age. The party really began when the bus carrying area BLAS college students arrived. As the D.J.'s .friend· circulated aroWld the party, he recognized some local trouble makers from Hamilton Hill. According to everyone interviewed, the party went smoothly until word spread that there was ac fight outside. C. The Figlit On his way back to Psi Upsilon fraternity from a party at Sigma Delta Tau Sorority, Steve Kileen stopped to see if with Paul Siletzky. As word spread through the SDT party and the BLAS party that the fight was in progress, others followed. The BLAS party was ending. Asare asked people to stay inside. The Blacks iden· tified in the fight were non· Union Blacks. Students from other schools left on the bus so it is logical to assume that the non-Union Blacks who were fighting were \tovmies\. The fight escalated to include Kileen, Ferguson, Zafian, Ziletsky, and non-Union Blacks. 8 • • In the wrong place at the wrong time ••• the Rathskellar was still open. Finding it closed, Kileen con· tinued on his way back to his room at Psi U. As he reached the traffic circle in front of the Skellar, Kileen was met by four non-Union Blacks. One of the four Blacks was urinating at the traffic circle. Since there were no proper bathroom facilities in Old Chapel, party guests had to use bathrooms outside f the party, (i.e., the .skell:ar or outside). His three friends were waiting for him to finish. Kileen tried to keep walking, but, as he tried to pass, the black who was urinating turned around and urinated on Kileen. Kileen tried to keep g()ing but the other three Blacks said something to him. A verbal confrontation ensued. At this point, David Ferguson and Peter Zafian walked by from Psi Upsilon on their way to Sigma Delta Tau. They tried to talk their way out of the con- frontation. More Blacks arrived on the scene. Kileen, Ferguson, and Zafian thought the alter- cation was over. They were sudden,ly hit. All three were beaten up by non-Union Blacks. Ferguson ran to SDT to get help. He returned to the fight other Union students (Blacks and Whites) tried to intervene but ended up getting pulled into the fight. Their efforts to break up the fight were unsuccessful. Security arrived but were unable to secure control over the situation. Consequently, the Schenectady Police Dep~rt­ ment was called. The , Blacks involved in the fight ran away when the SPD arrived. The remaining Union students were not arrested either. However, those students who were hurt, were taken to Ellis Hospital for treatment. In an effort to avoid further trouble, the police dispersed the crowd at the scene of the fight. They also broke up the parties at SDT and Fiji. People who did not comply with the police's request to disperse fast enough were arrested. Such people included: 1) Drew Hurley-was aslted to leave SDT three or four times. He did not leave because he was a reporter for Concordiensis. At first the police seemed to accept his explanation. Later, they arrested him. 2) Tom (\Slab\) VanTassell was on his way from the party at Fiji (which was just closing down) to the party at SDT (which he thought was still in progress). He walked up the stairs between Fiji and SDT into a group of police. The police asked him to leave. As he was backing up to leave the scene, the police arrested him. He did not leave fast enough. 3) Joe Maneen was standing outside in front of SDT as was a group of people for 5-10 minutes. He was arrested. 4) David(\Chip\) Johns was standing outside in front of SDT. Wben the police arrived and asked people to leave, Johns went to Fiji. Since that party had also been closed down, Johns retraced his steps back to Psi U. Since he had to go past SOT again, he walked into the group of_ police stationed in front of SDT. When they asked where he was going, he said back to his house. A group of SDT sisters said it was alright, that he was staying with them. The police arrested Johns. 5) Mike Rogers went to Ellis hospital to check on Peter Zafian and Dave Ferguson (two fraternity brothers and friends of his). He tried to convince Zafian, who was injured in the fight add was refusing treat- ment, to get stitches for his head. The nurse asked Rogers to leave the treatment room. Rogers left but tried to go back. He did not leave when asked to · by the police. He was arrested. RECOMMENDATIONS BA- SED ON CHARGES A. Based on Charges against: 1) Thomas Asare- Asare thought that he was acting correctly and in the best interest of BLAS. Yet, this does not change the fact that he filled out the party permission form incorrectly; he did not change the party permission form nor did he cancel or alter the ad- . Contmued on page! 15 Energy is Conserved By PAUL GIRSDANSKY Staff - Despite most students' perception that this winter has been unusually harsh, campus energy consllinption is le!:is than ninety percent of last winter's rate. Jack Hill, Director of Operations, has attributed this to two main causes. First, the conversion to natural gas for the steam plant has been ef- fective. Second, the im- plementation of many of the energy-conservation plans first proposed by administrators three years ago has been completed. Total expenditures for heat and electricity for the period from July 1,1982 to February 1, 1982 were $567,096 compared to a total of $64:5,4:20 for the corresponding period one year before. If the rate of inflation is accounted for, the drop in campus energy expenditures represents a more than 25 percent decrease in the amount of money spent to keep Union College warm and lit. The decrease apparently came almost wholly from the cost of heating the campus. Major savings have resulted from the instilation of steam lines, the use of storm windows, ceiling insulationing, time- controlled thermostats and the lowering of· campus tem- peratures to betwe~n 68 and 72 degrees. The base price of providing a measure of energy has also decreased, thanks mostly to the conversion from No. 6 heating oil to the currently less ex- pensive natural gas, which took place last December. Another major factor, Hill noted, was that maintenance of the campus steam distribution system was done frequently, preventing burstings and freezing before they happened. The winter was not, however, without its mishaps and an- noyances. Hill estimated that there were eight to ten in- stances of radiators freezing and pipes bursting. Some of the radiators ran into problems when students left their win- dows open during December break. Student Forum: Another problem was with the Fox-Davidson parking lot. The recurring freezing rains and snows turned the lot into an ice field. When Maintenance finally had the resources to clear the lot effectively, there were some complaints from users that there was not enough advance notice given to clear their vehicles from it. Hill said the problem would be avoided next year by setting a semi-regular schedule for plwoing. He also mentioned that next year's consumption should be even less than this year's, with the fuller implementation of the energy-saving project. Study Approved The Student Forum dealt with the issue of t:he library dispJ.ay spaces at its Monday meeting. The Forwn approved a proposal made by the Student Affairs Council (SAC) regarding the placement of the student displays in Schaffer Library. Jean Pelletiere, Director of Schaffer Library submitted a compromise to the SAC. The compromise, however, was not in _ full agreement with the original suggestions made to Ms. Pelletiere. As a direct result, the SAC put a proposal to the Forum last Monday. This read identically to the prior one of January 22. The proposed three-member subcommittee would evaluate all possible alternatives to the display case situation. those suggested by students, faculty, and library staff alilte. To provide an equal distribution of input from all interested parties, a student, a faculty member, and a member of the library staff are to comprise the subcommittee. In addition, at least ()De of the members of the subcommittee must also be a member of the SAC. This is to prevent any faction from having majority representation.

• ~parents 1and and get in- ion year. vspapers nunities re of the ~to take of the tt will be Student at the g term. directed 1pective ~itten by . of Bob 'inancial sed the, es being gan ad- ' urn er 1t \the 1at there ct loans is would lucation 1se who ttend.\ :tid that :s would igibility $14,000. t of cuts am, \25 ho work longer >ility of o Union money . in the ES 4'arclt boxes Mvea at the take ~29th -:p~\rtl. ~· m1n iSs·ttt 1itNbf OONOORDIENSIS, March ~~ 1982 Page 3 EICLISIYE Conduct Committee Report to the Dean EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is an exact transcript of the Conduct Committee's report to tbe Dean of Students regarding the incident of January 30th. The proceedings and the following report are considered confidential under the guidelines of the Conduct Committee. A choice had to be made between waiting until next Spring to publish the public, censored version of the report, or risk disciplinary action by printing what we have now. The January 30th incident has rece,ived much publicity in CONCORDIENSIS. Reports of accusations against individuals and groups were printed as were numerous facts that were subsequently questioned. The following report contains the most accurate and carefully investigated account of the incident, and deserves ex- posure. The incident, although un· fortunate, was nonetheless one of the most controversial and newsworthy of the term. For this reason, the student com· munity's desire and right-to- know, in our opinion, super- cedes the Conduct Committee's confidentiality in this specific, well-publicized incident. It should be noted that recommendations made by the Conduct Committee are just that-recommendations. It is ultimately the decision of the Dean of Students to determine and administer disciplinary actions (if any) based on the recommendations f the Conduct Committee. Actual decisions of the Dean cannot be published as they are protected under laws regarding individual privacy. The responsibility of CON- CORDIENSIS and any newspaper is to provide in- formation to its readers in an unbiased, factual way and to the best of its ability. Withholding this report would be violating this responsibility. In the future, CON- CORDIENSIS will be printing generalized, term-end reports of Conduct Committee proceedings as per a request by the Student Affairs Council. without consulting and receiving the acceptance of the BLAS leaders. He thought he could raise the money himself. Asare advertised on the Siena College Radio Station (which is a powerful station that reaches beyond the Siena College community) as well as inviting other BLAS' at area schools, (This is a common practice for BLAS functions). According to Greg Grant and Louis Prez, upon realizing that such ad- vertising was underway, they told Asare to inform the BLAS' he had contacted that the party was cancelled. At about this timel it came to the attention of the BLAS leaders that Asare had filled out a party per- mission form naming BLAS as the sponsor of the party. With this information, BLAS leaders informed Asare to change the form. However, Grant admitted that he told Asare that he would attend Asare's party. Asare interpreted this to mean that BLAS members supported the party but they did not want the financial responsibility for it. In addition, Grant and Perez did not check up to see if A.sare had carried out their orders to disavow BLAS as sponsors. Asare continued arrangements for the party. He hired a local D.J. who invited some friends to attend. Word of the party spread arollild \The Hill\ (Hamilton Hill, one of the worst sections of Schenectady) as a result of the advertising on the Siena Radio Station and the invitations made by the D.J. (who told friends, who told other friends, etc.) Advertising did not clearly state that the party was only for college students. Identification was reqired at the entrance of the party, but college identification was not required. In addition, Asare marked on the party permission form that the party would be open to \the college community\ (this Asare was obviously unfamiliar with the correct procedure for planning such a party as well as a victim of the ambiguity of the party permission form. B. The Party P .G. The party was set up prior to I. MATERIAL FACTS A. Planning the Party __ the start of the party. This in- cluded a \bar\ set up by the D.J. and his friend, who acted in the capacity of a \bouncer\. Early Winter term, Thomas Asare was told by BLAS to act as Social Chairman in planning an event for Black History Month (BHM). The BLAS function was to be held on January 29, 1982. Asare believed that the party he was planning was to be the BLAS function for BHM. The leaders of BLAS (Greg Grant and Louis Per~z) intended another type of event to serve as the BHM function. BLAS had no money in its treasury. The leaders of BLAS relayed this information According to the D.J.'s friend, the \bar\ consisted of two to four bottles of hard liquor in- tended to be given away to party guests. We as a com- mittee, however, cannot be sure that liquor was sold. Asare arrived at the begin- ning of the party. At this time, the D.J. and \bar\ were already set up. Also, a handful of party guests had arrived. Asare maintains that the D.J. collected money from them. Upon his arrival, Asare took on the responsibility of checking !.D.'s of people he did not know (AsareJ must fake responsibility for the party. to Asare the Tuesday before the party was to be held. At that same time, the leaders of BLAS informed Asare to cancel the party. The members of BLAS still wanted a party or some other function. Tom wanted to take a vote among BLAS members to decide whether or not to continue his party plans. The leaders of BLAS allegedly reflected Tom's suggestion to take a vote because there was no quorwn present. Acting on the general BLAS mem- bership's attitude in favor of the party, Asare continued to plan and collectmg money at the door for the duration of the party. The D.J.'s friend helped Asare and at times walked around the party to make sure everything was going .smoothly. College !.D.'s were not required. Therefore, the D.J. and his friends, Union students, other area college students, and \Townies\ with proof of age were allowed to attend the party. Asare maintains that he turned away all people without proof of age. The party really began when the bus carrying area BLAS college students arrived. As the D.J. 's friend circulated around the party, he recognized some local trouble makers from Hamilton Hill. According to everyone interviewed, the party went smoothly until word spread that there was a fight outside. C. The Fight On his way back to Psi Upsilon fraternity from a party at Sigma Delta Tau Sorority, Steve Kileen stopped to see if with Paul Siletzky. As word spread through the SDT party and the BLAS party that the fight was in progress, others followed. The BLAS party was ending. Asare asked people to stay inside. The Blacks iden- tified in the fight were non~ Union Blacks. Students from other schools left on the bus so it is logical to assume that the non-Union Blacks who were fighting were \townies\. The fight escalated to include Kileen, Ferguson, Zafian, Ziletsky, and non-Union Blacks. in the wrong place af the wrong time ••• the Rathskellar was still open. Finding it closed, Kileen con- tinued on his way back to his room at Psi U. As he reached the traffic circle in front of the Skellar, Kileen was met by four non-Union Blacks. One of the four Blacks was urinating at the traffic circle. Since there were no proper bathroom facilities in Old Chapel, party guests had to use bathrooms outside f the party, (i.e., the skellar or outside). His three friends were waiting for him to finish. Kileen tried to keep walking, but, as he tried to pass, the black who was urinating turned an>und and urinated on Kileen. Kileen tried to keep going but the other three Blacks said something to him. A verbal confrontation ensued. At this point, David Ferguson and Peter Zafian walked by from Psi Upsilon on their way to Sigma Delta Tau. They tried to talk their way out of the con- frontation. More Blacks arrived on the scene. Kileen, Ferguson, and Zafian thought the alter- cation was over. They were suddenly hit. All three were beaten up by non-Union Blacks. Ferguson ran to SDT to get help. He returned to the fight Other Union students (Blacks and Whites) tried to intervene but ended up getting pulled into the fight. Their efforts to break up the fight were unsuccessful. Security arrived but were unable to secure control over the situation. Consequently, the Schenectady Police Depart- ment was called. The ·Blacks involved in the fight ran away when the SPD arrived. The remaining Union students were not arrested either. However, those students who were hurt, were taken to Ellis Hospital for treatment. In an effort to avoid further trouble, the police dispersed the crowd at the scene of the fight. They also broke up the parties at SDT and Fiji. People who did not comply with the police's request to disperse fast enough were arrested. Such people included: 1) Drew Hurley-was asked to leave SDT three or four times. He did not leave because he was a reporter for Concordiensis. At first the police seemed to accept his explanation. Later, they arrested him. 2) Tom (\Slab\) VanTassell was on his way from the party at Fiji (which was just closing down) to the party at SDT (which he theught was still in progress). He walked up the stairs between Fiji and SDT into a group of police. The police asked him to leave. As he was backing up to leave the scene, the police arrested him. He did not leave fast enough. 3) Joe Maneen was standing outside in front of SDT as was a group of people for 5-10 minutes. He was arrested. 4) David(''Chip\J Johns was standing outside in front of SDT. When the police arrived and asked people to leave, Johns went to Fiji. Since that party had also been closed down, Johns retraced his steps back to Psi U. Since he had to go past SDT again, he walked into the group of police stationed in front of SDT. When they asked where he was going, he said back to his house. A group of SDT sisters said it was alright, that he was staying with them. The police arrested Johns. 5) Mike Rogers went to Ellis hospital to check on Peter Zafian and Dave Ferguson (two fraternity brothers and friends of his). He tried to convince Zafian, who was injured in the fight add was refusing treat- ment, to get stitches for his head. The nurse asked Rogers to leave the treatinent room. Rogers left but tried to go back. He did not leave when asked to · by the police. He was arrested. RECOMMENDATIONS BA- SED ON CHARGES A. Based on Charges against: 1) Thomas Asare- Asare thought that he was acting correctly and in the best interest of BLAS. Yet, this does not change the fact that he filled out the party permission form incorrectly; he did not change the party permission form nor did he cancel or alter the ad- Continued on page' 15 Energy is Conserved ByPAULGffiSDANSKY Staff Despite most students' perception that this winter has been unusually harsh, campus energy consumption is less than ninety percent of last winter's rate. Jack Hill, Director of Operations, has attributed this to two main causes. First, the conversion to natural gas for the steam plant has been ef- fective. Second, the im- plementation of many of the energy-conservation plans first proposed by administrators three years ago has been completed. Total expenditures for heat and electricity for the period from July 1, 1982 to February 1, 1982 were $567,096 compared to a total of $645,420 for the corresponding period one year before. If the rate of inflation is accounted for, the drop in campus energy expenditures represents a more than 25 percent decrease in the amount of money spent to keep Union College warm and lit. The decrease apparently came almost wholly from the cost of heating the campus. Major savings have resulted from the insulation of steam lines, the use of storm windows, ceiling insulationing, time- controlled thermostats and the lowering of campus tem- peratures to between 68 and 72 degrees. The base price of providing a measure of energy has also decreased, thanks mostly to the conversion from No. 6 heating oil to the currently less ex- pensive natural gas, which took place last December. Another major factor, Hill noted, was that maintenance of the campus steam distribution system was done frequently, preventing burstings and freezing before they happened. The winter was not, however, without its mishaps and an- noyances. Hill estimated that there were eight to ten in- stances of radiators freezing and pipes bursting. Some of the radiators ran into problems when students left their win- dows open during December break. Student Forum: Another problem was with the Fox-Davidson parking lot. The recurring freezing rains and snows turned the lot into an ice field. When Maintenance finally had the resources to clear the lot effectively, there were some complaints from users that there was not enough advance notice given to clear their vehicles from it. Hill said the problem would be avoided next year by setting a semi-regular schedule for plwoing. He also mentioned that next year's conswnption should be even less than this year's, with the fuller implementation of the energy-saving project. Study Approved The Student Forum dealt with the issue of the library display spaces at its Monday meeting. The F'orum approved a proposal made by the Student Affairs Council (SAC) regarding the placement of the student displays in Schaffer Library. Jean Pelletiere, Director of Schaffer Library submitted a compromise to the SAC. The compromise, however. was not in full agreement with the original suggestions made to Ms. Pelletiere. As a direct result, the SAC put a proposal to the Forum last Monday. This read identically to the prior one of January 22. The proposed three-member subcommittee would evaluate all possible alternatives to the display case situation, those suggested by students, faculty, and library staff alike. To provide an equal distribution of input from all interested parties, a student, a faculty member, and a member of the library staff are to comprise the subcommittee. In addition, at least one of the members of the subcommittee must also be a member of the SAC. This is to prevent any faction from having majority representation.

Page 4 OON'OORDlENSIS, March 4) 1981 Alumni Reps Seniors Joseph Laurin and Susan Marr were e1ected Alumni Cla.ss Representatives for the Class of 1982. Joe Cristofaro, Chairman of the Elections Committee, reported that 218 people cast ballots in the election. This is a much better turnout than last year's 142 ballot elections. Laurin received 76 votes for 17.7 per cent of the vote, while :Yiarr received 65 votes for a total of 15.1 per cent. Marr was iin dose competition with Will Uoyd who had 64 votes for only 14.9 per cent of the total balloting. -- Scholarships This year for the first time, local Schenectady ..... ___ .__ __ , Alumni Association awarding a Unian College Sorority woman .00 non-restricted lschotarshiP award. The award based on scholarship, ed, goals, activities, character and personality. In addition, four awards will be presented by the Union ICtollEl~e Panhellenic Council in of Greek Women. awards include house for scholarship, ex- tracurric.ular activities and intramural sports, fundraising and community service and an individual award for an out- standing Greek Woman on campus. All awards will be nre1sen.ted on Prize Day, May 8. detailed in- formation contact: Jane s. Wood, Assistant Dean of Students, extension 6176 or 6043. .. Musician To Speak CNB-A ward-winning mus- ician Kenneth Gaburo will give a lecture on \Readings in Compositional Linguistics: Compositions for Tape, Slides, Video, and Film\ on Thursday, March 4, at Union. Sponsored by the College Arts Depart- ment, Gaburo's presentation wiU begin at 7 p.m. in the Arts Building, room 202, and the· public is welcome to attend. Gaburo pursued his. formal studies in compasition, piano, and conducting at the Eastman School of music, the Con- servatorio di Santa Cecelia in Rome, Tanglewood, Princeton, and the University of lllinois. He has been the recipient of Guggenheim and Fulbright fellowships, as well as a winner of the George Gershwin Memorial Award and the Sigma Alpha Iota American Musk Award. A former teacher of music at several universities, Gaburo has studied linguistics for many years. He is currently working on a book on compositional linguistics. Author Gives Talk CNB--Writer and historian David McCullough, author of Mornings on Horseback, a biography of the young Theodore Roosevelt, will speak at Union Thursday, March 4. His talk, titled \Theodore Roosevelt and the Strenuous Life,\ will begin at 7;30 p~m. in Social Sciences 016. The public is welcome to attend. McCullough's talk is the first ill a four~part lecture serjes titled \Moments of Visioil,\ featuring individuals prominent ill· their fields. Sponsored by the Union College Minerva Com- mittee, the series will include poet and novelist Margaret Atwood on April 19, critic and rhetorician Kenneth Burke on April29, and Harold Edgerton, retired professor of electrical engineering at MIT, on May 17. McCullough's Mornings on Horseback, a national best- seller, was Winner of the 1981 Los Angeles Times prize for biography. His other books, The Johnstown Flood, The Great Bridge (the story of the building of the Brooklyn Bridge), and Tile Path Between the Seas (a history of the Panama Canal), have all received wide critical and popular acclaim. \We have no better social historian,\ says critic John Leonard of the New York Times. A native of Pittsburgh, McCullough was educated there and at Yale University. He later worked as an editor and writer at Time Inc., the United States Information _Agency, and American Heritage. He bas received the· New York Diamond Jubilee Award for Excellence (for The Great Bridge) and has been granted ill in the p A.EY1tE It f f~ F OR,'P\1\.N c c . OF AD ?1l 1SS ZON FtlEE ~Ai~PJl't, ?rtA..'!tCH 6-l:h,' I'!B'L ItT 1!30 1!1)1, 'lJ.:\N tON COLlEG-E: ?1:f'M.01{7Al C~AP~ American Society of Civil Engineers, one of the few non- engineers to be so recognized. . Theater Tickets CNB--Tickets are still · available for a Union~sponsored trip toN ew York Gity Saturday, March 6, to see the Broadway production of Crimes of the Heart, awarded the 1981 Pulitzer Prize and the New York Drama Critics' Circle Award. A chartered bus will leave the College at 7:30 a.m. March 6, arriving at the theater district in time for participants to shop and dine before the 2 p.m. matinee. The bus will leave New York at 7;30 p.m.· Gaynor F. Bradish, adjunct associate professor at Union, will meet with trip members on the Monday before and after the performance to discuss the play. The cost of the trip is $55, including theater ticket and the discussion sessions. To register, contact the Union Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies at 370-6288. As part of its spring, non- credit program, Union is also offering trips on April .3 to Cambridge and Boston, Mass.; on May 8 to Salem, Mass.; and on May 22 to New York City for a performance of the American Ballet Theater. A broc_hure describing these programs is available from the Graduate Studies Office. Incarcerated Mothers Geoffrey Kors, a Political Science-Sociology major, and Nancy - Judson, a Political Science major, will present a paper at the annual meeting of the National Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences on March 25, 1982. Kors and Judson will be presenting a paper . entitled Incarcerated Mothers. The paper was written while in- terning with Assemblywoman May Newburger, the Chair- woman of the New York State Assembly Task Force on Women's Issues. The project was supervised by Professor Martha Huggins. The paper deals with the problems that arise when mothers are placed in prison. The paper discusses the York .State practice of Dla•cmlU the children of women in foster homes than with relatives, and denying custody of the child its natural mother upon release from prison. In ad- dition, the paper describes the .poor hygenic conditions prison nurseries in which in-· fants are poorly cared for, and the inequitable distribution of privileges between .in- carcerated fathers and mothers. The paper, which offers over thirty recommendations for - legislative action, will be presented in a panel entitled ''Issues in Penology\ at 12:00 p.m. at the -Galt House Hotel in Louisville, Kentucky. The conference will run from Ma~·ch 23 through March 27. Summer Series CNB-For the thirteenth year, · Union is offering a summer series of technical institutes for engineers, scientists, and in- dustrial managers. This year's institutes are \Applied Instrumentation and Measurements Engineering, . \ July 12-16; \Computer ~oftware with Industrial and Engineering Applications,\ July 12-16; \Planning a Digital 'Data Acquisition and Control Computer System,\ July 19-22; \Conference on Fracture Mechanics and Its Application to Fracture Control,\ July 19- 23; and \Computational Worshop in Linear and Nonlinear Structural and Solid Mechanics,\ July 26-30. Also offered this.summer will be \Computer Workshop in Finite Element Mthods of Analysis for Stress and Other Field Problems,\ July 26-30; \Computer Workshop in Finite Element Methods for Electric and Magnetic Field Problems,'~ July 26-30; and \Conference on the Modern View of Fatigue and Its Relation to Engineering Problems,\ August 2-6. A free brochure describing the summer institute program and individual course offerings is available from the Union College Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies, Wells House, 1 Union, Ave., Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. 12308. For more information, call (518) .370-6288. Final Exam Schedule CORRECTIONS- DELETIONS -ADDITIONS Winter Term MONDAY, MARCH 15- 9:00-11:00 a.m. . DELETE--Political Science 12--Contemporary Internat1onal Politics-Nichols . Psychology lQ-A First Course in Psychology-Sec. 2-Gminer-PY 113 TUESDAY, MARCH 16 - 9:00-11:00 a.m. M.E. 30-Dynamics of Linear Systems-Kennedy-N210 TUESDAY, MARCH 16- 2:004:00 p.m. - Chemistry 32-0rganic Chemistry II Sec. l-Quaal-BU204 Sec. 2-Hull-BU204 · Chemistry 142-Chemicallnstrumentation-W~rner-BH106 · Computer Science 37-structured Progr~~-Schwarz-BH207 Computer Science 130-Data Structures-G. Williams-CH205 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17,- 9:00-11:00 a.m. English 55-Shakespeare to 16oo-Murphy-Hl.!Ol9 . . . Political Science 12-Contemporary International Politlcs-Gatl- HU114 DELETE-Computer Science 37 DELETE-Computer Science 130 THURSDAY MARCH18 • 9:00-11:00 a.m. Mathematic~ 12-Calculus II-Sec. 3-Muckenfuss-BH207 THURSDAY, .March 18 - 2:004:00 p.m. DELETE-Art 75 Art 76-Chinese and Japanese Art-Thurston-AB104

rather of to n her n ad- es :the ns of in- and of in- and over for be 12:00 in The • year, for in- are and 'Data 19-22; cture 19- and Solid will in of Other 'l on gram and N.Y. . OONOORDIENSISJ ¥arch 4, 198S Page 5 features The ''Working Poor?\ College Tuition Enrollment By D. BOOTH Once again Union~is raising its tuition costs. Professor Jewell stated in the last .issue of Union Views that there is \virtually a one-to-one correspondence between an increase in faculty salaries and increase in student tuition,\ an increase which is necessary to prevent Union faculty from :becoming members of the \working poor.\ This brings to mind - several . questions, namely, (1) Do Faculty members at Union deserve raises?; (2) Is the Union College Faculty comparable to the other schools on this list of comparable schools?, {3) Should the rasies come wholly fr()m tuition raises?, and ( 4) Where is the ceiling.going to be? Certainly the answers to these questions is a mattel' of opinion, and there is no right answer. But there are several facts to be considered, and, by considering them one may arrive at an informed conclusion. Certainly no one would argue that the faculty do not deserve raises. A fair salary should be paid to those people who provide such a valuable service to our society. With,this in mind, let us consider exactly what goes with the job. To begin with, the faculty receive many benefits which are not available to the \working poor.\ They have flexible office hours. As far as I can discern, ther~ are no set rules about how a professor must spend his time as long as he does his job. Thus professors take longer lunch breaks than would be tolerated in the working world, some leave before five, some only have office hours one or two days each week. Most are of course hard workers, doing research, working on com- mittees, and teaching, yet there is a certain flexibility in their hours. They also have good vacations. The month. of December allows them the entire holiday ·season to spend as they please, and there is also a spring break. During the summer, some professors are required to teach, and all ought to be keeping in touch with advances in their field or doing research, but to be blunt, I've written some of my better papers relaxing in a hammock. The time is again ilexible. The grind and rut of an eight to five, forty hour a week job is not there. There is also the option of sabbatical leave to pursue in- dependent study. Certain professors have the option of teaching a term in a foreign c()untry on a term abroad, which, although it entails a great deal of responsibility, can also be very exciting. Professors with children may, for a nominal fee, utilize the day care center. The college contributes 10 percent of salaries to a retirement system, pays for life insurance and has a dental plan. The most expensive part of being a parent, sending a child to college, is also partially paid for by Union. Faculty children may-attend Union free of tuition, and, if they decide not t() attend, Union, they are eligible for .payment of half of their tuition or $5,000 at the institution of their choice. In short, there ar.e a great many benefits, compared to the troubles being experienced by the \working poor.\ Although the lower end of the pay spec- trum ($16,500) is low and ought to bee raised, professors with salaries in excess of $30,000 ought to be quite comfortable. Yes, there should be salary raises, but not across the board raises which necessitate such an increase in tuition .. There should-be merit raises, perhaps an increase in some of the benefits (e;e., major medical), and an attempt to raise the lower section of the pay spec- trum to achieve some sort of equity in pay. Interestingly enough, one of tile reasons which is given for raising salaries is that, statistically speaking, Union is just not keeping up with the other comparable schools - schools which are determined to be comparable with respect to ''student selectivity and quality of curricula.\ The adjoining article discusses whether Union is comparable to these schools, so I will only briefly discuss this point. It is very difficult to determine just how comparable we really are, considering how subjective the controls for deciding this are. When -discussing faculty quality, exactly how is this determined? It could be determined by their publications, but considering , that their primary purpose is to teach, it seems logical that one • factor to determine their quality would be to determine how well they teach their subject in class - how much they inspire their classes to interest in their subject. I have no knowledge of this being-a. part of determining the faculty q_uality. One example of the fact that this is a poor way to judge whether faculty salaries should be raised is that if all similar types of studies are to be believed, neither Yale College Review nor the recent New York Times College Review rate Union particularly favorably - and this includes quality of teaching. Moreover, statistically, Union does not rank at the bottom of the list (yet). The benefits of \ranking\ at the top of such a list are not quite clear to me, Of course one of the logical reasons behind this raise is that without it Union will not be able to compete with other schools and industry for quality people. Unfortunately, Union will never be able to compete with in- dustry in terms of salary, only in terms of benefits. The benefits and the enjoyment of teaching must be great enough to be an incentive to either stay at Union or to come to Union. At Union there is no danger of pricing itself out of the market, for it is not yet one of the highest priced colleges in America, and there will always be those who are willing to pay anything for a college education. There is a definite danger ·of losing Union's equalitarian stand, for with a higher tuition and less financial aid, fewer people from the middle classes will be able to afford Union. This raises the point that perhaps salary raises should not come entirely from tuition raises, but should come partially from other options, such as endowment. The college has been investing money for years, explaining that it was there in the event of an emergency - if the school ran int() difficulties. Union is now in the black, and some of this money could probably be diverted into salaries without serious~y ~amaging Union's \rainy day\ money. The point is that students are being asked to .support quite a financial burden, not unfairly for they will later reap the benefits of an education, but with the cut- backs in financial aid, some may never reach the com- pletion of theil! goals. Where all .of this will end is another interesting question, considering an the recent studies which estimate that a college education wiU. cost $100,000 by the year 2000. There seems to be little effort by anyone to put a perspective on the value of a service. Union Views discusses the Consumer Price Index, and notes that Union will have lost 11.2 percent to inflation. Yet they do not note that this is a national figure. In Schenectady, the cost of living is relatively inexpensive. Were these professors teaching . in Boston, Washington, or New York, they would certainly feel the bite of inflation. Gas prices in Schenectady are less ex- pensive than ·prices even in surroWlding counties (unleaded may be had· for $1.19), food prices are less, and housing costs are considerably less than the national averages. The national average for a house is $83,000 while houses d.irectly across from the college on Seward Place may be pur- chased for $40,000. It is all relative. In short, where will the line be drawn, the upper limits, when the price of a formal education is no longer on par with the quality of an education? There is no answer to this question, and I leave it to the reader to determine. \ The accompanying list was obtained from the Financial Aid Office, which would not position Union on the. list. This reporter was informed that the list was compiled based primarily upon tuition, and certainly all the College 1. Hamilton 2. Smith 3. Williams 4. Barnard 5. Amherst 6. Mt. Holyoke 7. Bucknell 8. Hobart & Smith 9. Boston Univ. 10. Bowdoin 11. Wesleyan 12. Tufts 13. Kenyon 14. Wellesley 15. Vassar 16. Lafayette 17. Brandeis 18. St. Lawrence 19. Princeton - 20. RPI 21. Denison 22. Lehigh 23. Franklin & Marshall 24. Davidson 25. Dartmouth 26. Columbia 27. Worcester 28. Washington & Jefferson 29. Brown 30. Cornell 31. Colgate 32. Skidmore 33. Univ. of Rochester 34. Sarah Lawrence 35. Trinity 36. Hartwick 37. Clarkson schools on the list come within a few hundred dollars of Union in tuition. However, the criteria for determining the list (for it is not arranged according to tuition costs) could not be ascertained. T $7000 6800 7016 7060 7250 6530 6474 6400 6390 6865 3720 6778 6300 6530 6618 6000 6849 5745 7250 6725 5990 6100 5650 4900 7050 6772 5938 6917 7000 6415 6390 6169 7260 6580 5875 5290 E 1600 2693 1975 2500 1569 1961 3359 1800 28509 1327 2600 6920 1448 2168 2168 2071 2776 2450 5968 5708 2164 4400 2075 1352 4297 2800 2573 1077 7320 17291 2!680 2161 3479 976 1902 1434 l304 (Statistics gleaned from obtained from the Union College Peterson's Guide to Office of Financial Aid.) Undergraduate Colleges. List Note: T-Tuition, E-Enr~llment · Comparable Schools By PHILLIP JORGENSON Staff The above table shows alist of thirty-seven schools with which Union compares itself. As can be seen~ these schools vary a great deal in size, cost, and library facilities. In addition, they differ in the sorts of curricula they offer, r~mging from small, liberal arts programs to engineering programs. Their admissions range from almost competitive to competitive. How can such a diverse group of schools be compared to one another? On what basis are they ranked? Perhaps the quality of the f~culty is the unifying factor. Unfortunately, it is a very difficult task to quantify such a factor. When we compare Union to this rather motley crew, we compare favorably (as far as various facilities are con- 101 Days Till Graduation I! cerned) with some, and not very well with others. Quite often, the reason that we don't fare very wen is because we are pitted against schools such as Princeton, wht<:h, with 3I1 enrollment of 5968 and a tuition of $7250, have the resources to build and maintain a large number of facilities of sub- stantial size. For example, Princeton's library contains 3,000,000 bound volumes, . and Union's library but 400,000. At the other extreme, there are colleges on the list, such as Sarah Lawrence, which have enrollments of 976 and a limited curriculum. Compared against them, Union comes out looking very good. When I first began to think about making a comparison, I considered constructing a composite school which would be somehow representative of the schools on the list with which I could compare Union. I soon realized that this would be a fruitless endeavor. There is really no way to create a composite college which would truly be representative of the schools on the chart. Even a comparison of such a composite school with a school on the chart the composite was drawn from would, in many cases, be dif- ficult to make. One simply cannot take large universities, technical institutes and small liberal arts colleges and create a picture which corresponds in the essential points with any of them. I.f one school of ap· proximately the same size and cost were selected, a com· parison can begin to be made with Union. Hamilton College, which heads the list, is such a college. It compares well in terms of enrollment and tuition. Within the past teu years, Hamilton has opened a new fieldhouse, renovated its gym and put in new squash, handball and tennis courts. Un.ion has constructed Achilles Rink and the new football field, and our fieldhouse was remodeled in the sixties. We also have tennis courts and so forth. However, Hamilton also has an Arts Center and a Minor Theater to which the present Arts Building and theater in the Nott Memorial cannot compare. Union also compares fairly well in terms of science facilities; Hamilton recently renovated its Chemistry Building, and Union has a very young Science and Engineering Center. Comparing Union to the second school on the list, Smith, Union does less well in terms of library facilities and so on, but one has to keep in mind the sort of school Smith is-8mith places a much greater emphasis on the arts than does Union, so the disparity is a natural one. In short, Union is not really comparable to the schools with which it compares itself. Uniop must compare itself t() schools of similar size and expense, not to mention philosophy. When the list is thus narrowed, that is, to schools of similar enrollment, tuition, and emphasis, Union appears t() make a fairly good showing, with the exception of facilities for the Fine and Performing Arts.

r::: Ql ~ I'll \C r::: ...J >- ..a 0 +- 0 .r: 0. Page 6 OONOORDIENBIS, March 4, 198S features . . . . . • ''· r, ·: '· • • ~ • ' Sharon Parish is an active member and leader ir:1 Women's Network. Update: Women's Network By DAVE FITZGERALD Staff The Women's Network was formed · . to create an or,ganization for women on campus that would spread awareness of women's ·issues, act as a support group for both women and men, and give Union's women the opportunity to operate an organization in a community where many organizations caH be male dominated . The Women's Network has a very structured governing system that begins with the people are inhibited when it comes to calling security about things of this matter. The victim would be able to call someone on the list and be able to discuss his-her situation. This program is to resemble a \Rape Hotli11e.\ What is important is that the victim should inform someone, so that some idea of what is occurring . on campus can be formed. Valentine's Day Massacre Exeuctive Board. This board consiSts of a chair, cD-Chair, treasurer and other top of- ficials, and its function is to oversee the operation of the network and its three ·sub- committees. The first sub- committee is involved in the planning, organization, and promotion of the Women'.s Network observance of Women's Week. Women's Week is held during the third week of Spring Term. The second subcommittee is involved in the planning of workshops and other events that are of concern or interest to women on -cam- pus. The function of the :third subcommittee is to deal with political issues and act as a liaison be•tween the organization and the ·college administration. In the past 'this committee has. worked for the establishment of a gynecology clinic on campus and in having a .full-time woman counselor at the Counseling Center. The Women's Network also is involved in co-sponsoring a series called Women In Films with the status of Women On Campus Committee. There will be one more movie this term and four more next term. These fihns have had a good response so far. Another way the network tries to promote women's issues is by publishfng a newsletter called Anima. This letter gives people interesting news and articles written from a woman's perspective. The Fall term edition of Anima was con• cerned with women in health related professions. Anyone can write for Anima but the deadline is F:'riday, March 5. By PAUL GIRSDANSKY Staff The negative waves were flowing as the Rock Cornish Garne Hens were served. The seventy burned baby birds were the pvoud concoction of Stephen \nails\ Kozinski--full time brother at my fraternity, half- time football player, and zero- time substitute for the Italian lady who usually prepared our meals. My date was a young lady wh6\se name I cannot reveal. I can, howe'ler, tell her initials: Ellen Garner. She was visibly upset. I quickly downed the Whiskey and Coke that I had prepared using one part Whiskey and one part Whiskey. My pledge brother Stash's date looked equally anguished. Brother Steve's date had a face that couldpeel paint, especially with. the pained look that she had upon it. I looked around. Every member of the male subspecies in the room had an empty glass and an angry woman in front of him. Then came the realization. It came upon each brother, pledge and rushee in the room at the same time. Everyone in the room who wasn't a woman realized that he was at a hopelessly phony Valentine's Day Party with an alleged lady who had plans to terminate all communication with their escorts forever at the end of the banquet. Then came the communal concept. The proverbial light bulb above each member's head came on: Wily put off carnage when you can do it immediately, After three years of guilt- ridden silence, I finally make my peace now with that blessed saint who controls the heart. I made the first baby bird fly on COME TO THE SIGMA CHI 50's PARTY this Saturday Night, March 6 Dress up and boogy to the rock and roll sounds of the 50's. Prizes for best costumes. :1 flU 0 O!l R OR !I 0 OR QQ 0 Oll:.O !I 0 0 0 0 OR A 0 0 Q 0 1t.R C! fU Q Q D 00 II 0 Ql!j -.WE DELIVER-- 374-1888 464 State St. Schenectady, NY the night of the infamous Upsilon Rho Iota St. Valentine's Day Massacre. Roger Staubach would have been proud. I hit the middle of the big paper heart behind the head table ... on one bounce off the head of the fraternity President's date and (by now) former girlfriend. It was truly a religious exper.ience. Do you know what the grease from a burned chicken does to a snobby co-ed's brand new two-hundred dollar dress? It is not a pretty sight. Those birds flew in death like they never had flown in their lifetimes. The women took off. Every once in a while, late at night some of the elder brothers still remembers the 14th of February of 1979. They smile sadly, for since then the fraternity has slid into respectability. Violence on campus has been of special concern to the net- work this year. The political division has been having long discussions with members of the administration and security to try to make the campus safer, such as better lighting in some areas. They have also persuaded security to drive women home from parties. In the past, security was willing to drive women home from studying but not from parties which is where most of the violence has occurred. Also being worked on is a list of professors and administrators that women or men could call if they have been a victim of violence or agression. This list is being made bacause some This Saturday March 6, a benefit will be· held in Old Chapel at 10 p.m. The proceeds from the benefit will go to Anima. Beer will be pr()vided by sororities on campus and ap- pearing at the benefit will be the just-reunited band Quick Fix. So be sure to be at Old Chapel this Saturday at 10 p.m. The money win go to a good cause and you will probably have fun too. Women's Network is very active and offers a wide variety of activities to its members in hopes of improving the con- ditions for women on campus. Improve your memory. Order this memo board now-before you forget! S!ACRAM DISTIUERS CO, N V.C AMERIC!II YtliiS«FF-1 Bl£110 10 PROOF s.Mon,up ~!ld 'IUP arelrad~m8rksOflhf~tn upCompa~~ o 1002 ' .

it The call able This is form of is a On bese etter and COD• the 5. a Old o to ap· ethe Fix. The use very in con- - OONOOBDIENSIS~ March f.-1 198! Page 7 features . . . . \ . ' ~ ' . - , ' . . . . . ' ' ' . . . Union's Steinmetz Program By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Staff What is hwnan nature? Does man possess :free will over his decisions? These are just two of the many subjects covered in the Winter Term Steinmetz Seminar, \The. Logic of Inquiry.\ Just what is a Steinmetz Seminar? \It is a program designed for students who are hright and inquisitive, but whose intellectual needs are not being met,\ states Professor Barbara Markiewicz, one of this term's Stein;m.etz teachers. \It is a course designed to make students think and form per- ceptions about what they think about certain issues.\ This term's seminar, \The Logic of Inquiry,\ is an examination of the methods of discovery used by different authors .to find their own definitions of human nature. The evolution ofthe definition of human nature is also covered. Works py such authors as Darwin, Descartes, Flf.)ubert, and Freud are read. Unlike the ordinary lecture class, the seminars are usually informal discussions in which subjects related to the material are discussed. Not only is student participation en- couraged, it is demanded. \Students must be willing to question their own beliefs, and to defend them, if necessary,\ adds Markiewicz. Professor Peter Heinegg, who is joint teaching the current seminar with Prof. Markiewicz, agrees with her; \Members of the class must measure themselves against the authors read, and their fellow students. It is a testing of ideas. Everyone's ideas must be questioned; and then sub- stantiated by that person with facts (usually from the readings1.\ Another unusual feature of the course is the guest speakers who come and talk to the class. Besides meeting on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons, on Wednesdays teachers from departments relating to the week's material discuss issues relating to the literature read. \I find the guest speakers to be almost a necessary feature .. of the course,\ tells Markiewicz. \They provide additional in- formation on the topics covered, as well as being an enjoyable facet of the program.\ Although Professors Heinegg and M;arkiewicz are joint teaching this term's seminar, they maintain different per- spectives on their individual roles as Steinmetz teachers. ''I view my function as that of a person who guides discussion; who from time to time asks provocative questions,\ voices Markiewicz. \I ani more of a moderator. Someone who decides where the discussion starts, but not where to lead it. The students should. form their own ideas, and then modify these concepts if necessary.\ Professor Heinegg holds a differing position. \I am both dictator and midwife -- I facilitate both the birth and delivery of discussion-ideas. Although I prefer erganized teacher instruction, I am willing to compromise to a clas's discussion. However, I do make sure that when a student makes a statement, he-she is making it from a solid factual base.\ Though the requirements and curriculum vary from seminar to seminar, this term the students are required to cover all of the assigned readings, as well as the writing of two papers. The first paper deals with an analysis af the in- tellectual, moral, or cultural distance between the Bible and any one of the assigned course readings. Unlike the first paper, the final paper will deal to much larger extent with the student's view of human nature. The essay is to deal with the place of humans within nature. Positions taken by the students are to be formed in light of the literature read. This paper will be due during finals week. The origins of the Steinmetz Program go back to 1977. \There was a concern ·ex- pressed that the most curious students (especially during their sophomore and junior years) were unhappy academically,\ states Professor Byron Nichols, director of the Steinmetz Curriculum. \As a result of this expressed need, the Steinmetz program was created. It con- sists of a series of inter- disciplinary seminars, of varying content, designed to challenge those students.\ Each seminar is team taught, and there is an average of one seminar per term. Only \The Logic of Inquiry,\ this term's seminar is required to be in- STUDENT CREDIT Ever wish that while traveling, vacationing, or maybe just for emergencies, you could have a national credit card? Well, now-- YOU CAN--obtain a Master Card or Visa while still in school, no co-signer· required. We have established a division to exclusively handle the credit needs of college students . . . freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors ... so you can enjoy the conveniences of credit NOW, and have your credit established for your professional life after graduation. On a 3x5 card, print your name and complete address. (Enclose $2.00 for postage and handling.) Send to: ' Creative Credit International CoHegiate Credit Division Suite 303- Penn Lincoln Bldg. 789 Penn A venue Pittsburgh, PA 15221 structed. once a year. Because of the nature of the course, -the Steinmetz program is not for everyone. But what type of student are they looking for? ''It is designed for students who are distinguished by their attitudes,\ adds Nichols. \We want students who are sen- sitive, perceptive, and ean think analytically.\ Each interested student must apply, and from this applicant pool are selected twelve to fifteen students for the course. '!be theme of this Spring'.s Steinmetz Seminar is ''Technology and Human Values in Public Policy\ which will investigate the effect of technolQgy and innovation upon policy choices and societal ethic·s. Interested students may still register for the course by contacting Professor Nichols. Professor Heinegg acts as both a \dictator and midwife\ in the Steinmetz Program. Blame It On Union! By ERIC RUBEN Staff Is it art? I didn't care. When I arrived at the Library, I knew that I would eventually go to the sacred room to read the writing on the wall. I did not know if the scribes of the room were prophets, but there was something special about what they had written. The cool beige tile revealed itself when the door to the shrine was opened. On the right as I walked in were mirrors that could help you look into the depths of your soul or help you wash your face. I had come to this sanctuary as a much needed break from my pursuit Part Two: of academic greatness. While passing these strange windows my body went to one of the booths of reading where people often emerged enlightened in many ways. Shutting the door and sliding the bar-lock across were easy, almost too easy. It was the most private area that anyone could encounter. There it was, right next to me, the writing on the wall. The ancient sayings of years gone by, those most holy etchings of eternal truth. I absorbed all I could see eagerly. They were easy to read, all except one obscure bit of writing. I strained to look at what it said. I said what seemed to be the word. \Ittifarg!\ All at once the booth began to shake. the lights were no longer there but were replaced with light- ning and thunder. The walls were shaking as ivy began to cover them. , He stood tall and dark with eyes of fire. He told me I was to be the guardian of the wall for the rest of eternity. I was not pleased. I had only one year to go before I graduated. I told him I was going to go for an MBA next year. He glared at me and said, \That's different. I thought you were an English Major. I had no idea you were marketable.\ With that there was a flash and all was normal again. I hope I get into business school. Union's Resident Advisors - By TOM MEGERIAN Staff Union's Resident Advisors . are truly a special breed. In most schools, the Head Resident Advisor is a full time paying job held by a professionally trained non- student or a full time graduate student. As Resident Student Development Coordinator Chip Morris puts it, \. . . the R.A. pisition is the second toughest one on campus. I think the Head R.A. is the toughest one. It's one that directly relates, on most campuses to a professional and if it's not a professional, it's a full time graduate student. Here it's an undergraduate. For them to do what we require of them to do and still fulfill their academic requirements is amazing .... one of the reasons it's so tough is that it's got to .be the toughest thing to do, as a peer, to discipline <;mother peer, . . . to have to go out to someone who lives next door to you or down the hall or upstairs and say 'Hey, you've got to .stop what you~re doing, because I'm telling you to.' The R.A. 's at . Union are compensated for their duties by either receiving a discount on their room and board fees, as is the .case fox- Resident Advisors, or by receiving free room and board and having their monthly phone fee paid for them. R.A. training does not stop after the initial week of training at the beginning of the year. Indeed, Union's R.A.'s attend several in-training workshops throughout the year, each session lasting three hours. Although it is not required of them, they are encouraged to attend various intercollegiate Resident Advising seminars at other schools throughout the year. In addition, all R.A.'s meet once a week with their H.R.A.'s for 3- 4 hours to take, what one interviewed person called, a \Team approach to running the dorm.'' Another duty of the R.A. which most people are unaware of, is his or her requirement to spend one weekend per term on campus, \on duty,\ carrying with them a beeper at all times. Their responsibilities while \on duty\ include responding to such campus emergencies as fights, fires, etc . The life of an R.A. isn't easy. Balancing grades and responsibilities ca.n get pretty hairy, yet most seem to be very involved with other activities besides academics and dorm responsibilities. Some have off- campus jobs, otliers are in- volved in athletics, fraternities, sororities, etc. A.S H.R.A. Bob Brewster puts it, '' ... you have your interests . . . things that you've committed yourself to, things that you really enjoy and, for me, the grades are secon~ dary right now.\ Many think that to be an R.A. you have to have a gut major. That's not the case. R.A.'s range in their majors from psychology to chemistry to engineering. Beth Donaghue, H.R.A. at Davidson, explains the balance between duties, grades and personal life: \By the time you're a junior or senior here, hopefully you know how to manage your time. The fact that we (those interviewed) all applied for Heap R.A. means that it's important to us so that we know, hopefully, how to handle our time .... we know that it's not going to be always academics and that our grades might slip . .. but we're willing to take that tradeoff. It's the reward of the job, really.\ The Job of Resident Advisor is not always as pleasant as many R.A.'s try to make it appear by always appearing chipper and eager to help their floormates. They are people too and once in a while they need a break. As Bob Brewster ex- plains, \Times will come when we have to take off ... you're a person too. It's frustrating to come back and bear 'Where have you been . . . you're sup- posed to he here. \' Overall, though, it's·; im- portant to remember that they're ther.e to help the student Continued on pege l5

Page 8 OONOORDIJJJNSJSJ .March 4, 1982 Money Talks (CPSl-New college students are getting even more materialistic in their life goals and conservative in their politics, according to the annual UCLA-American Council on Education survey of freslunen. The study, which in covering more than 200,000 students is one of the largest of its kind, is just the latest in a series of contradictory surveys of student political attitudes. Even the UCLA survey found that fewer college freshlnen than last year ranked \being well-off financially\ as a very important goal. But 67 percent of the 204,000 freshmen who responded said they enrolled at college \to make more money,\ compared to 63.4 percent of last year's freslunen. For the first time since the surveys began in 1967, more freshmen (19.6 percent) call themselves \conservative\ than call themselves \liberal\ (10.2 percent). But as in previous years, the ACROSS symbol '1 Ship channel 4 Eagle's nest 4 Man's'hick- 5 South Amerl- name can animal 6 Urges on 6 Foster 1 '1 Glossy paint 7 Scale note 12 Refunded 8 Unlock 15 Near 9 Milk farm 16 Poetic Muse 10 Knight 18 European i2 Pronoun land 14 Down: Prefix 19 Inlet 17 Soviet news 21 Caliph agency 22 Near (abbr.) 20 Siamese coin 23 Sedition 24 Remainder 26 Still 25 Seine 29 Ceremony 27 Send forth 31 Walk 28 Clock 33 Scale note 29 European 34 Conjunction capital 35 Weaken 30 Asian land 38 Greek letter 32 Peel 39 Negative pre- 36 Skill fix 37 Processions 40 College deg. 42 European 41 Snare 43 Evaluate 45Goal 4 7 Kind of race horse 50 Oral pause 52 Toward shel- ter 53Popand- 56 Slave 58 College offi- cials GOOdin's brother 61 Courage 63 Lurched 65Worms 66Ave. 67 Exist DOWN 1 Wheel tooth 2 One opposed 3 Tantalum everwhelming majority (59.6 percent) calls itself \middle of the road.\ A spring, 1981 Rutgers study of 205 campuses concluded that \students are as politically active today as ever.\ And an October, 1981 survey of college editors by Collegiate Headlines, a trade letter for the student press, found that at least the perception among the journalists who cover campuses is that student apathy has lessened. But other recent students at Stanford and the Universities of Massachusetts and Florida tend to support the UCLA study's portrait of ever-more materialistic, conservative freshmen. The University of California- Berkeley, however, found in a survey of the students who graduated from there in the sixties that their students retain an affinity for leftist politics, according to Pacific News. Service. CROSS WORD PUZZLE FROM COLLEGE PRESS SERVICE 44 Limb 46 Depressions 48 Rips 49 Doctrine 51 Soaks 54 Above 55 Ancient Per- sian 56 Printer's measure 57 Diocese 59 Compass pt. 62 French article 64 State: Abbr. Answers on page 9 U.S. Med Students F ,,u·1 · , N. ·h ' ear · t1mate ·· 19 tmare (CPS)-Froma sidewalk cafe, Mike watched American tourists taking pictures of each other \holding up\ the Leaning Tower. He sipped his Chianti and sat back, closing his eyes to get the full effect :of the strong sun. \I really bate it here,'' he . says. Like many Americans studying in Italy, Mike would have gladly boarded the .plane with those tourists If he could accomplish at home his life's goal: to become a doctor. And being rejected by U.S. med schools, Mike is in his fifth year at the University of Pisa. To him and other Anlerican med and veter:inary students, Italy is an indeterminate prison sentence. - \I came here out of a choice I felt was forced apon me. Why can't you just W()rk hard and become a doctor? \ he asks bitterly. \I studied hard, got good grades. How many honors do you have to achieve?\ Honors or not, each year 30,000 applicants are turned away from the 20,000 openings at American med schools. The Journal of Medical :Education concedes that \about half of those rejected (are) qualified.\ Students who finally resort to foreign veterinary or medical schools do so only after ex- pensive, exhaustive assaults on Con tin 11ing Studies CNB--The Uni()n College Office of Graduat:e and Con- tinuing Studies is now accepting registrations for spring term evening courses at the College. Classes begin Monday, March 29. Union's evening program offers courses leading to un- dergraduate degrees in such disciplines as engineering . and computer science, psychology, the humanities, mathematics, and social sciences. Master's degree programs include those in administration and management, biolQgy, com- puter science, mathematics, and physics. Two doctoral degree programs are also of- fered. Detailed information on the spring program at 'Union is available from the Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies, Wells H()use. Call 370- 6288 for more information. iller Filler FUI r Filler Filler iller Filler Fill r Filler Filler iller Fil.ler Fill r Filler Fl,ller U.S. admissions and interviews before turning to Italy. \When I · was rejected I thought, 'If I could put a bomb in every American medical school and blow it up, I'd do it,' \ he says. ''I actually feel like I've been cheated.\· In Pis:;~, many of the American med and vet students gravitate toward each other for support, eating, studying and commiserating among them- selves., but this close association typically reinforces their negative feelings about being here. · \The Americans who don't · like it here feed each other their complaints. It's a vicious cycle,'' observes Cindy, a fourth-year vet student. Along with her roommate Rosina, Cindy often plays in- formal hostess to her medical compatriots who wander through her old stone house. \There's a whole different attitude between Americans and Italians,\ Rosina points out. \The Americans excel in the scientific field because it requires a specific mentality, a tedious precision. Here, they don't have funds to build labs to exercise that. Instead, the Italians excel in the humanities and subjects like philosophy.\ The Americans find it hard to apply the theoretical approach to scientific subjects. In con- trast to their upbringing, here .textbooks are their main sources of learning. Classes are entirely optional, and lab sessions are rare. Students' progress is measured by ·oral exams, taken before an in- timidating panel of professors. \At American universities you stu.dy certain topics and the exams demand instant recall. If you know 90 percent of the material, you will do well,\ explains Glen, a vet student from Los Angeles. \Here you can know 90 percent, but it may not be the part the professor will ask. I don't think I've ever worked in any sillgle course at horne ·as . much as I've worked for each course here.\ \The American system is better for the disc~pline,\ .adds Chris, also a vet .student from Los Angeles. \You need that kind of push to help you through.\ Even students who study relentlessly take at least six: years to get through med school and .five for vet, while their American peers get their degrees in just three or four years. And after they finally get their diplomas, the Americans in ltaly have no guarantee they'll find an office wall in the U.S. on which to hang them. They constantly exchange rumors that American licensing boards are about to adopt stiffer restrictions against foreign trained doctors and vets. The American Medical Association and the American Veterinary Medical Association are lending their support to exclusionary rules, in part to prevent a glut of professionals from a broad from flooding the job market. \The rules that dictate how you can go back and practice are changing all the time,\ Mike explains. \I don't need any more problems now. I'll worry about it when I'm ready to go back.\ Henry, a sixth-year student, worries now. He was forced from a French med school when France excluded all foreigners, transferred to Pisa, where he lost credits he earned in France and was pushed back a year's . worth of study. Though he has a B.S. in biology and graduate biochemistry work at Brandeis, he had to fight Pisa to avoid retaking Basic Biology. Now he faces the ultimate nightmare of not being able to practice. \Why are they trying to take away this only road for us?\ he asks. \I haven't met one person who said he's here because it's easy. No one wants to be a quack.'~ Photos Expose (CH)-The Oklahoma State U .. yearbook is proceeding with plans to carry a picture and sllort mention of hazing in its upcoming edition, despite ob- jections from some of the school's fraternities. Members of OSU fraternities apparently learned of the plans to mention hazing in a two-page section on campus traditions when a yearbook photographer took a picture of a student being covered with whipped cream while tied to a tree. At a recent Interfraternity Council meeting, one representative said th~ yearbook coverage on hazing \could be devastating\ to ·campus fraternities, and substantially damage their standing. The representative also said the photography was not of a hazing incident, but could depict an initiation rite. The fraternities' reaction is out of proportion to the . year- book's plans, says Leland Tenney, publications adviser. \They hadn't seen the copy when they protested It,\ he says. The -fraternity members also apparently thought a larger si:x-page section was being devoted exclusively to hazing, when in fact only a portion of a two-page section on campus traditions will deal with that subject. The Campus Store Presents: Since the fraternity ob- jections were lodged, the school's publications board voted to allow Redskin Editor Dennis Whiteman to exercise his own judgment in the matter. \The board thought it was best just to keep hands off;\ he says. Whiteman plans to proceed with a full-page of the whipped cream victim and a mention of hazing in the article on campus traditions. \The plan is to present it as factually as possible,\ says Tenney. \'I'he article tries to draw a contrast between tradition and actual hazing.\ There have been no serious hazing incidents at OSU in recent years, Tenney says. PEANUTS@ by Charles M. Schulz Dear Contributor, Thank yott for considering us with your manuscript: Has it ever :Occurred to you that you. may be the worst writer in the history of the world? · I HAVEAUNIQUE C()LLECTION OF REJECfiON 5LII?5 ... He doesn't think the frater- nities' complaint will damage yearbook sales. \It will -probably help,\ ·Tenney says. ''Any kind of controversy usqally does.\

each is adds from that you study six their their four get an tee the bhem. dical to to g the how need I'Il when he has a to ?\he erson it's be a was but rite. is copy \ he ht a was to a on with ob· the best says. of to as \The no says. will OONOORD.IEN818, March 4, 1982 Page 9 Students Abroad Face Expulsion For Drug Use at Notre Dame,\ Conklin says. (CPS)-·Twenty-one Notre Dame students spending their sophomore y:ear abroad may be expelled when they get home for allegedly smoking hashish while .studying overseas. Notre Dame officials say the problem is emblematic of increasing drug abuse by American students abroad, although other sources deny there is any such problem. Their situation is not that unusual among U.S. students abroad, Conklin contends. \The people who are experienced in these matters say there is a problem with drug use by American students in Europe,\ he says. (NAFSA) denies any drug abuse problem exists among students abroad. \It's a very atypical problem,\ says NAFSA's Georgia Stewart. \Drugs were much more of a problem in the sixties. We haven't had any institution brought to our at- tention in a long time. That (the Notre Dame incident) is a very unusual case.\ Single-Sex Dorms In Twenty of the 21 students being disciplined were enrolled at the University of Innsbruck, reports Notre Dame spokesman Dick Conklin. The remaining student attended the University of Innsbruck, reports Notre Dame spokesman Dick Conklin. The remaining student attended the University of Algiers. \Two of the students were brought home right a way\ after the alleged drug abuse was discovered on February 1, Conklin says. The others will finish their terms, and face expulsion on their return: They will have a chance to appeal their dismissal, however. Notre Dame found out about the drug problems .from Inn- sbruck authorities, who had apparently been told by some of the families with which the Notre Dame students were staying. Notre Dame subsequently discovered that 21 .of the 34 students in the Innsbruck program were using hashish. One of the two students who were dismissed and brought home immediately, was allegedly selling drugs also, Conklin says. The other student was already on probation for past offenses. \We've always told our students that wherever they are, the rules are the same as if they were attending school here Education: But a spokeswoman for the National Association for Foreign Student Affairs (CPS )-Even single-sex dorms are now getting stricter. Last month, the University of Alabama announced it was creating a special \closed The Doors Come Back· (CPS)- More than a decade after the drug-related deat}J. of Jim Morrison in a Paris hotel room, the \Lizard King\ of rock music is making a comeback on college campuses as the most frequent subject for popular culture term papers. That's the assessment of George Ward, who teaches pop music at the Center for the Study of Popular Culture llere. Ward attributes the comeback of Morrison and his group, The Doors, to a current of pessimism among college students. \Other groups tend to be too hippie-dippy and optimistic for today's students,\ Ward says. \The Doors tended to home in on the more cynical side of things: loneliness, the dark side of life. This being a rather down period, The Doors are in sync with the times.\ Ward tells his students to \take an album from the six- ties, and write about it and what it meantto its time. The number one group the students write about is The Doors.\ Morrison was the group's lead singer, songwriter, and focal . point of controversy, mostly over his frequent arrests for obscenity and nudity while on stage. He earned his \Lizard King\ niCkname by performing in skin•tight leather pants. \Beyond just the music, there have been students here who have tried to recreate the whole Doors thing. I know students who dress like Morrison, take LSD and listen exclusively to sixties music,\ Ward reports. \I first noticed it in the mid· seventies, and it's just as strong today.\ Ward notes the group was the subject of a bestselling book, Nobody Gets Out Of Here Alive, two years ago, but attributes its current revival to the homage paid to Morrison by New York punk and New Wave musicians, who cite Morrison's brooding stage presence and theatrics as an inspiration for their own work. No tvo NOt AP>SOLUTE:L.\i NO PLANS FO\\ SEt\JOI IVG T~OOPS 10 'E.L Improves Health (CPS )-Higher education is generally good for your health, though if you're a woman it may also turn you into a heavy drinker, according to a national study of health and lifestyles by the University of ND'rth Carolina. The ongoing study found that better-educated people tend to be healtheir, eat better and ingest lower levels of harmful cholesterol. For women, however, alcohol consumption seems to rise with education level. Nearly 10,00() people in the U.S. and Soviet Union par- ticipated in the study, which the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute began in the early 1970's. . ''The higher educated group tended to eat healthier diets than the lower educated group,\ says Dr. Suzanne Haynes, an assistant epidemiology professor at UNC and co .. author of a research report on the study~ \It indicates that persons at higher education levels are perhaps changing their diets more quickly in response to recommendations than is the lower education group.'' Haynes .suspects the in- creased drinking among well educated women may be similar to smoking patterns. \Cigarette smoking began mainly among higher educated men,\ She says, then \spread to lower educated men, then to higher educated women. It looks as if alcohol may be following the same pettern.\ The study also found that well educated women had lower levels of cholesterol. Education played an insignificant role in cholestei.\ol levels among men, Haynes says. The Campus Store Presents: PEANUTS@ by Ch.arles M .. Schulz residence\ hall that will be off limits to members of the op- posite sex 24 hours a day. While a number of camp11ses have reported over the last year that they were either not of- fering co-ed dorms as an option to their students any more or converting mixed-gender dorms to single-sex, Alabama may be the first major university to lock up a single- sex dorm. The result will be a hall like those that were the r-ule on campuses until the late 1960s. \We had requests by both students and parents,\ explains John Kagle, Alabama's assistant housing director, \and we felt like there was a need to offer the closed residence option to students.\ The trend to \privacy quiet, and an atmosphere more conducive to academic life\ is in fact now the predominant one in campus housing nationwide. \Choice and options are the watchwords today,\ says Gary North, president of the Association of College and University Housing Officers and director of housing at the University of Illinois. \We're in the process now of finishing up some market surveys that are designed to tell us the kinds of housing alter- natives students are interested in,\ says MSU housing director Robert Underwood. \We're finding that students are very interested in privacy and Less noise.'' In addition, MSU heads a growing list of colleges where single-sex residence halls are becoming increasingly popular. Of the 20,000-some MSU living in campus housing, Underwood says, approximately half live in single-sex residence halls or apartments. Alabama's Kagle thinks \it's all tied to the conservative trend in the country.\ \Students are much more conservative than when I went here back in the seventies,\ Kagle says. \Students don't stand on the street corner and holler about what they don't like. It's definitely a differ-ent group of students today.\ Puzzle Answer

Page 10 QONCORDIENSISJ March 4, 198! Editorials Letters Report Examined The report of the Conduct Committee to the Dean of Students (printed in this issue of Concordiensis, p. 3) regarding the incident of January 30th illustrates an important strength, but at the same time, an important weakness of the Conduct Committee. What makes the report a truly valuable and infonnative work is clearly seen in the definitive presentation of the facts surrounding the incident. The Conduct Conunittee must be highly commended for their investigation of the incident which is covered in scope and depth beyond what any other investigative body had previously been able to produce. There were, no doubt, hours and hours of testimony that had to be assimilated to finally arrive at the authoritative account which appears in the report. The facts comprise merely half of the report, however. The rest of the report consists of recommendations that are in some cases specific, and in other cases general in nature. The recommendation regarding Mr. Asare's involvement clearly points out the undeniable irresponsibility of his actions, but the recommendation does not sound quite as harsh as it ought to. Both the Conduct Committee and ultimately the Dean of Students are somewhat limited in the actions that can be recommended and imposed. Suspension may be too harsh while a letter of reprimand may not be strong enough, but, there exist few options between those two relative extremes. Since the Conduct Committee chose the lesser of the two actions to recommend to the Dean, the least they should have done would have been to word their recom- mendation in a much stronger way. B.L.A.S., interestingly, was not found guiltless of the incident as they had claimed. In light of the evidence uncovered by the Conduct Conunittee, B.L.A.S. leaders should have protected their own in· terests and checked Mr. Asare's handling of the function. The Committee's recommendation was, contradictorally, rather in- nocuous, stating, \B.L.A.S. should be more responsible\ as far as choosing their leaders. That is simple common sense. More con- structive would have been to require B.L.A.S. to plan and execute all parties through their faculty advisers. Happily and officially, Psi Upsilon Fraternity, as well as all of the individuals involved in the fighting and the arrests were cleared, and. for them the incident is over. This is most welcome because the individuals involved in the fighting, along with those arrested, were unfortunate victims of the incident. The weakest part of the report is the section containing general recommendations. Particularly disappointing was the pointless recommendation that \security should be increased\ when parties are being held. The problem is not increasing security-we would have needed at least a dozen officers to stop the fight once it began- but rather increasing the efficiency of the Security Department. Had their patrols been more frequent and had they been highly visible, then there is little doubt that the incident would not have occurred as easily as it did. It is encouraging to see that already some good has come from the incident and the recommendations; this Saturday's party in Old Chapel will have a security officer supervising the area between Old Chapel and the restrooms in the Rathskellar. This, presumably, will be a requirement for any organization wishing to use Old Chapel for functions where restroom facilities are necessary. Also acted upon has been the recommendation to simplify and clarify the Party Permission Form. With this change, already in effect, there will be little question as to the exact nature of the party to be held. One of the most important statements to be found in the report is at the very end where the Conduct Committee responded to the President's charge to investigate the \racial atmosphere\ on campus. It is reassuring to know that, at least in the opinion of one important investigative body, the racial situation did not suffer because of the incident. Although the report contained some valuable recommendations, most of the recommendations were either blatantly obvious, or so weak that they held no weight. General recommendation five is a perfect example; the Committee states that ''registering parties .. . should continue,\ period. This recommendation is such an oversimplification of the situation so as to be worthless. Of course we should continue to register parties, but someone ought to look at exactly what such registration is supposed to afford. More security? Based on the report, there was not enough security anyway. Controlling guests? The report stated only college com- munity guests would be invited, however there were underage, non- college individuals present at the scene of the incident. Controlling what will be served? Despite the presence of the Food Service, there was still uncontrolled hard liquor at the party. If, indeed, the Conduct Committee recommends that the party registration policy continue, tpey should also recommend an examination of exactly what registering a party is supposed to do. Thanki,.' To the Editors: Sincerely. Robert J. Massa Direetor of Financial ~d Insensitive To tbe Editors: / ~'\'IOtD J~ I?. ~Id, QConcor t1·~, ~ bltnsts o· ~-~ o ~c~.l L ~,. Editors-in-Chief IMiSOciate Editor Managing Editor News Editor Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors l:tYccTt.t>\~ • Paul Grossman, Naomi Blank Rachel I. Mandel Diane Pavacic A.J. Brodsk.y Judi. Leecnervenak Bob Fox:, Roberta Rubinstein Mar~a Manfredonia Charis Richards National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner C.9py Editor D.C. Owens Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Rick Sapir Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen 1 P.hot1ograpt1Y Consultant Richard A. Sher ClersS.·Ilfl!982>1 David Neibluni Julie Abehnan, Joey Beckerman, Norman .Him bach, But as when an authentic watch is shown, Each man winds up and rectifies his own, So in our very jud#!:ements. Al{laura, epilogue Sue Bloomberg, Marcy Burstiner, Thomas Ching, RobertS. Driscoll, Tim Emswiler, David Fitzgerald, Sharon Feldman, Donna Getson, P.S. Girsdansky, Susan Kone, Doug Landon, Tom Megerian, Peter Mohr, Jennifer Paston, Daniel Rosenfield, Eric Ruben, Martin Sands, E.J. Sapir, Franklin Schneider, MiehaelSharp, Andrew Sobel, Joel Stein, Julie Steinhardt, Amelia A. Terhune, Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne Business Staff Jennifer Amler, Maryann Gagliardi, Evelyn Gurdin E. Wesley Harris III, Chris Eshebnan Photo Janet Guiliano ·coN(lORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student ·body of .Union College, Camegie Hall, Scpenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York, 131138, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States •. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB).

Page 10 QONCORDIENSIS, March 4, 1982 Editorials Letters Report Examined The report of the Conduct Committee to the Dean of Students (printed in this issue of Concordiensis, p. 3) regarding the incident of January 30th illustrates an important strength, but at the same time, an important weakness of the Conduct Committee. What makes the report a truly valuable and informative work is clearly seen in the .definitive presentation of the facts surrounding the incident. The Conduct Conunittee must be highly commended for their investigation of the incident which is covered in scope and depth beyond what any other investigative body had previously been able to produce. There were, no doubt, hours and hours of testimony that had to be assimilated to finally arrive at the authoritative account which appears in the report. The facts comprise merely half of the report, however. The rest of the report consists of recommendations that are in some cases specific, and in other cases general in nature. The recommendation regarding Mr. Asare's involvement clearly points out the undeniable irresponsibility of his actions, but the recommendation does not sound quite as harsh as it ought to. Both the Conduct Committee and ultimately the Dean of Students are somewhat limited in the actions that can be recommended and imposed. Suspension may be too harsh while a letter of reprimand may not be strong enough, but, there exist few options between those two relative extremes. Since the Conduct Corrunittee chose the lesser of the two actions to recommend to the Dean, the least they should have done would have been to word their recom- mendation in a much stronger way. B.L.A.S., interestingly, was not found guiltless of the incident as they had claimed. In light of the evidence uncovered by the Conduct Committee, B.L.A.S. leaders should have protected their own in- terests and checked Mr. Asare's handling of the function. The Committee's recommendation was, contradictorally, rather in- nocuous, stating, \B.L.A.S. should be more responsible\ as far as choosing their leaders. That is simple common sense. More con- structive would have been to require B.L.A.S. to plan and execute all parties through their faculty advisers. Happily and officially, Psi Upsilon Fraternity, as well as all of the individuals involved in the fighting and the arrests were cleared, and for them the incident is over. This is most welcome because the individuals involved in the fighting, along with those arrested, were unfortunate victims of the incident. The weakest part of the report is the section containing general recommendations. Particularly disappointing was the pointless recommendation that \security should be increased\ when parties are being held. The problem is not increasing security-we would have needed at least a dozen officers to stop the fight once it began- but rather increasing the efficiency of the Security Department. Had their patrols been more frequent and had they been highly visible, then there is little doubt that the incident would not have occurred as easily as it did. It is encouraging to see that already some good has come from the incident and the recommendations; this Saturday's party in Old Chapel will have a security officer supervising the area between Old Chapel and the restrooms in the Rathskellar. This, presumably, will be a requirement for any organization wishing to use Old Chapel for functions where restroom facilities are necessary. Also acted upon has been the recommendation to simplify and clarify the Party Pennission Form. With this change, already in effect, there will be little question as to the exact nature of the party to be held. One of the most important statements to be found in the report is at the very end where the Conduct Committee responded to the President's charge to investigate the \racial atmosphere\ on campus. It is reassuring to know that, at least in the opinion of one important investigative body, the racial situation did not suffer because of the incident. Although the report contained some valuable recommendations, most of the recommendations were either blatantly obvious, or so weak that they held no weight. General recommendation five is a perfect example; the Committee states that \registering parties .. . should continue,\ period. This recommendation is such an oversimplification of the situation so as to be worthless. Of course we should continue to register parties, but someone ought to look at exactly what such registration is supposed to afford. More security? Based on the report, there was not enough security anyway. Controlling guests? The report stated only college com- munity guests would be invited, however there were underage, non- college individuals present at the scene of the incident. Controlling what will be served? Despite the presence of the Food Service, there was still uncontrolled hard liquor at the party. If, indeed, the Conduct Committee recommends that the party registration policy continue, they should also recommend an examination of exactly what registering a party is supposed to do. But as when an authentic watch is shown, Each man winds up and rectifies his own, So in our very .iudf!;ements. Aglaura, epilo_pue Thanks To the Editors: Please accept my congratulations and thanks for another term of timely and informative articles and features on the future of federal st u.dent aid. As editor of a financial aid journal myself, I llave seen the efforts of other student publications throughout New York State and am happy to say that your handling Qf this complex. ana was one of the best. Keep up the good work, and thanks again for making my job a little easier. Sincerely. Robert J. Massa Director of Financial Aid Pre-Registration Insensitive Letters valid. If the meal card and I.D. disc!)unt. At tbe present rate of do not match or there are any $390 ~term for a 19 meal plan, other inconsistencies, the LD. one week costs the user $34.45, and-or meal card may be or $1.86 per meal. The same confiscated and Conduct week, figured at the cash door Committee charges brought. prices, would cost $65.50, -or Therefore, it is very imw $3.45 per meal. portant to report lost meal · The cash prices represent cardS immediately in order to what Food Service needs to avoid liability for any misuse. It · cha.rg..: to cover all ex~nses in is also very important to keep serving one meal with unlimited meal cards secure. Food Ser~ seC<>nds. Along with the obvi()US vice often hears that meal card costs for the food and labor are was left in a room or on a desk the costs for replacing and for a weekend and that some repairing silverware, dish1'!s unknown person used the card and equipment; the cost of without permission. While we cleaning the carpet twice or sympathize with this ltind of three times a year; training problem, we must point out that costs; license fees and other a 19-meal plan represents similar indirect expenses. When $390.00 per term. Clearlyt the all expenses are added meal card should be treated as together, we find that we M(;ld cash or a credit card. to charge $4.00 for any dinner Students often .wonder why we are sure will be eaten. Food Service insists that only Without the \missed meal the owner use a given meal factor\ we would have to card. After all, ifthe bill is paid, charge the higher cash prices . then the student is entitled to for all meals. The price for a 19 eat all 19 meals. What dif- meal card would than be about ference could it possibly malte $700.00, rather than $390.00. We who eats those meals and why are able to offer the opportunity shouldn't a guest or friend be to eat 19 meals a week atthe low able to eat one or two of the price, only because we know T() the Editor's: \extra meals?\ that not every meal will be. The answer lies in the nature eaten. That, of course, is why I find it very unfortunate that of a meal contract. The contract Food Service must take certain seniots ~uch as myself does not insure that the precautions to prevent the are not able to take desired customer will eat al119 (or 14 or misuse of meal cards. If guests co:urses before;graduating. Due 10) meals, nor does it entitlti! the and friends were allowed to to .an incl\ea.sing demand and customer to eat 19 meals per \borrow'' meals we would soon lack of professors in many week at any odd time.. The find all19 meals on most cards de-partrnelttst specifically in the contract does entitle the being eaten. We would lOose the computer science and customer to the upportunity to advantage of the \missed economies departments, many eat any and all of 19 meals a meals'' without getting ad~ seniors are being Hclosed out\ week during the regularly ditional income to cover -:the of courses applicable to their scheduled dining hours in the added costs. Food Service is a fields of interest and their appropriate . dining facility. department at a non-profit careers. Though the present Be()ause we know from ex- college, but, it cannot be a \card\ sy-stem is ~ffective in perience and repGrts department run at a loss. that it cho()ses students ob- throughout the industry that a Thus, Food Service limits the jectively, t do not feel that it is certain percentage of all use of a meal card tbtbe owt1er. sensitivetoseniorsinparticular eligible card holders will The alternatives: an -the cUJ:rentproceduremust be probably not take the op- astronomical increase in the reevalu.ated. · portunity to eat any one meal, price of a meal card. or West Specifically,! wished to talte we are able to produce food College and Hale House Compub:lr Science 11 {Fortl*an} accordingly. Moreover, operating in the red. Neither this forth<!oming term as it because we know that the are viable <lptions in light of all pertains t(l my career goals. percentage of students not the {)ther rising costs of a However, wllen I went to pick eating any particular meal (the . college education. up my caN!: at 9:30 a.m. on the ''missed meal factoru) is specified flay, the cards had relatively constant over a term Union College been gone (as of 9:15) and I was, or year, we can and do price Food Service placed on the waiting list. r f~m~·=ea:l::p:lla:ns:::Wl:'tb:· ::a::b:uil:':t·:in:. ===========-.:;1 spoke with Professor Josephine M()recroft (C.S. 11 prof.), Professor Theodore Schwarz (C,S. prof~), Dean Alan Nelson; Mr. Calvin Schmidt (the Registl\'ar) and Professor E.D. Phaup ( Chairman of the Econorni~s Department} without rnue:h progress. It is vital to the future education at Union to pr()Vide for ample faculty members in these departments to meet the needs of the students. After finally · fulfilling rny major requirements and lib~ral learning requirements I am ,greatly disheartened that I am not able t() take those courses which ai;e qf interest to my personal and future career goals. Sincerely, Valerie Lenes Class of 1982 Food Service Deii nes Pol icy 'ro the E-ditor~ We would like to remind Food 1 Set'V'ice Meal Plan customers and the student body in general, that meal cards art:'! f<Jr the . exclusive use of the owner. ln ot'der to .maintain this policy, we. re(luire tbat the owner's Union College l.D. be presented Witb thtlmealeard to tile tUning Hall cheeker. In the event that 1 n(j t.-]).~ i.s t»\esented the, meal . 1.eara .. will not ® CQtWd · \' Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor Managing Editor News Editor 'Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors Paul Grossman, Naomi Blank Rachel I. Mandel Diane Pavacic A.J. Brodsky Ju<11 Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner Cppy Editor D.C. Owens Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Rick Sapir Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher Cartoonist David Neiblwn Staff Julie Abelman, .Joey Beckennan, Norman J:Slrnbach, Sue Bloomberg, MarcyBurstiner, Thomas Ching, RobertS. Driscoll, Tim Emswiler, David Fitzgerald, Sharon Feldman, Donna Getson, P.S. Girsdansky, Susan Kone, Doug Landon, Tom Megerian, Peter Mohr, Jennifer Paston, Daniel Rosenfield, Eric Ruben, Martin Sands, E .J. Sapir, Franklin Schneider, Michael Sharp, Andrew Sobel, Joel Stein, Julie Steinhardt, Amelia A. Terhune, Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne Business Staff Jennifer Amler, Maryann Gagliardi, Evelyn Gtlfdin Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris III, Chris Eshelman Photo Staff Janet Guiliano CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York, 13338, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). ~-------------------------------------·

or ' ded to- ices al9 We nity low be ank en ayne Box the OONOORDIENSIS, March 4, 198S Page 11 Mr. John Marrone ~r.Argee . ·\' .. m This issue will be the last of this term. - The first issue of spring term will be published on April 8. Have a great- break! .~~~\.~1--. f~e Press Service Letters Editorials Commentar.r: To Serve or Not to Serve By NORMAN BIR:NBACH To serve or not to serve; that is the question. But it is not the only one, merely the first. To answer it, several others must be con- sidered. \To serve ·or not to serve\ seems like an easy question with an equally easy answer: no. However, the implications are a good deal more complex. If you say no, then, as many believe, in a couple of years, there'll be no such question. You'll have to serve - the Russians. So, to protect America and her allies, they tell us we will have to do our duty and serve in the army. They are right to some degree, for we cannot have the Mount Sinai Home for the Aged fight in our stead. Then, there's the other side of the coin: if I do serve, and there is a war, will I survive it? Personal safety is the first question, and most draftees are willing to make a qliick reply. What's the point, they ask, in protecting the U.S. from Russia. if I don't live to enjoy that freedom? They may be right too. The 18 to 26 year-olds would have to quit civilian life. Everything they have done will be wasted- if they don't return. And if they do, who's to say they'll be able to continue where they left off, as if nothing had happened? War has always been romanticized. The schnook before the war becomes the hero during it. During World War II, war movies enhanced this. John Wayne got killed in the movies, but they were romantic deaths. Ten years ago, little boys played war - bang, bang, you're dead! -and would get mad if you didn't play Alumni Council Representative Candidates who submiHed their photos to accompany the statements in Concordiensis may pick them up in Student Activities from Mrse Marrao dead; other boys, not very much older, played by different rules in Southeast Asia. War is all that and more, but worse. In real wars. heroes get shot as easily as non-heroes. Only the camera doesn't stop and change locations; the heart does. War is man's most fearful and devastating invention: not even another invention - the atomic bomb, which was built to help the former - is more so. To protect Europe, ourselves, and the oil supply from the Russians, we need, so say many hawks, to raise an army able to do just that. The volunteer army has not worked; hence the only way to get a good army is by the draft. The country very desperately needs a strong army; so the answer to the first question, they maintain, has to be yes. If we do not move now, it will be too late. They say we should fight to protect America's interests, but what are they? Most people would not have known where El Salvador is, had not the U.S. had some \interests\ there. A country of that size and of such seeming insignificance, can't possibly matter to us one way or the other, many say. The significance though, others say, is that we might just get our- selyes into another Vietnam if we're not careful. Fighting for one's country is one thing, but fighting for someone else's is another. Who wants to die for El Salvador? But that doesn't answer the question. What are America's interests? To stop the ever increasing influence of the Communists? If so, then the United States foreign policy hasn't changed in thirty years, when there was still the Cold War. But need it change if Russia's hasn't? But then again, is El Salvador worth the prospect of war, a world war? It is not, as it first seemed, such an easy question whether to serve or not to serve. This will be a difficult time for most students. This draft, if there is one, will be different from others because of the im- plications involved and possible outcome. In World War II, America was attacked. Not many resisted or evaded the draft. They went to protect us and Europe from the Nazis. In Korea, and especially in Vietnam, many more evaded. In both, many believed that we had no right to be there. During Vietnam, if you evaded, many oeople were on your side; it was he correct thing to do. Is it so 1day? Now we are being hreatened, but not exactly. If ,\'e do nothing, national security ts not being sacrificed . . . at least for the time being. DEADLINE FOR NEXT ISSUE IS TUESDAY, APRIL 6

of <Jr to of ()f to We be the to the ad- a a the an the a del shy rds en, one, IDle, the ited OONOORDIENSIS, March 4, 1982 Page 11 COit1IIleqtary L~tters Greek Term Gives Advice . To the Editm13: Having been on the term abroad in Athens for abQut seven weeks now, we feel it's . time to relay our knowledge to the Union campus, so everyone may benefit. We cannot say our st~tements reflect the views of all those on the term abroad, but still we feel they may be valuable in giving a frame of reference as w what everyday life is like over here~ What follows is a list of \Stupid Things to do in Greece\ . . . . 1) Wrap yourself in a U.S. flag, go down to Constitution Square, and spout ideas of U.S. · manifest destiny. 2) Rip Communist party . posters off t~e walls. · 3) Go into a taverna and ask for a \Bud.n 4) Try to find a Greek food without olive oil in it. . 5) Make a pass at a Greek. woman (if :vou're a man). 6) Make a pass at a Greek man (if you're a man). 7) Drive in downtown Athens. 8) Go down to Athens University and ask someone if they've heard of your frater- nity-sorority. Continue tbe conversation, asking if they have fraternities or sororities in Greece, and if they do, is it called the '~American system,\ and do they use American letters. 9) If a person doesn't u;n· derstand you because they do not speak English, just talk real loud. · 10) Sit around and think of combinations for Bill Murray's immortal question, \Quien es mas macho ... . 1 11) Rehash old Monty Python and SCTV skits. 12) Write a list of ' 1 Stupid Things to do in Greece,\ and send it to your college newspaper. Mr. John Marrone Mr. Argee ... in Athens This issue wUI be the last of this term. The first issue of spring term will be published on April 8. Have a great break! Letters Editorials Commentar_y: To Serve or Not to Serve By NORMAN BIRNBACH To serve or not to serve; that is the question. But it is not the only one, merely the first. To answer it, several others must be con- sidered. \To serve or not to serve\ seems like an easy question with an equally easy answer: no. However, the implications are a good deal more complex. If you say no, then, as many believe, in a couple of years, there '11 be no such question. You'll have to serve - the Russians. So, to protect America and her allies, they tell us we will have to do our duty and serve in the army. They are right to some degree, for we cannot have the Mount Sinai Home for the Aged fight in our stead. Then, there's the other side of the coin: if I do serve, and there is a war, will I survive it? Personal safety is the first question, and most draftees are willing to make a quick reply. What's the point, they ask, in protecting the U.S. from Russia. if I don't live to enjoy that freedom'! They may be right too. The 18 to 26 year-olds would have to quit civilian life. Everything they have done w·ill be wasted- if they don't return. And if they do, who's to say they'll be able to continue where they left off, as if nothing had happened? War has always been romanticized. The schnook before the war becomes the hero during it. During World War II, war movies enhanced this. John Wayne got killed in the movies, but they were romantic deaths. Ten years ago, little boys played war - bang, bang, you're dead! -and would get mad if you didn't plav Alumni Council Representative Candidates who submitted their photos to accompany the statements in Concordiensis may pick them up in Student Activities from Mrs. Marra. dead; other boys, not ver~ much older, played by different rules in Southeast AsiC!. War is all that and more, but worse. In real wars. heroes get shot as easily as non-heroes Only the camera doesn't stop and change locations; the heart does. War is man's most fearful and devastating invention; not even another invention - the atomic bomb, which was built to help the former - is more so. To protect Europe, ourselves, and the oil supply from the Russians, we need, so say many hawks, to raise an army able to do just that. The volunteer army has not worked; hence the only way to get a good army is by the draft. The country very desperately needs a strong army; so the answer to the first question, they maintain, has to be yes. If we dl) not move now, it will be too late. They say we should fight to protect America's interests, but what are they? Most people would not have known where El Salvador is, had not the U.S. had some \interests\ there. A country of that size and of such seeming insignificance, can't possibly matter to us one way or the other, many say. The significance though, others say, is that we might just get our- selves into another Vietnam if we're not careful. Fighting for one's country is one thing, but fighting for someone else's is another. Who wants to die for El Salvador? But that doesn't answer the question. What are America's interests? To stop the ever increasing influence of the Communists? If so, then the United States foreign policy hasn't changed in thirty years, when there was still the Cold War. But need it change if Russia's hasn't? But then again, is El Salvador worth the prospect of war, a world war? It is not, as it first seemed, such an easy question whether to serve or not to serve. This will be a difficult time for most students. This draft, if there is one, will be different from others because of the im- plications involved and possible outcome. In World Warn, America was attacked. Not many resisted or evaded the draft. They went to protect us and F.urope from the Nazis. In Korea, and especially in Vietnam, many more evaded . In both, many believed that we had no right to be there. During Vietnam, if you evaded, many :Jeople were on your side; it was he correct thing to do. Is it so ~day? Now we are being nreatened, but not exactly. If .\e do nothing. national security 1s not being sac1·ificed . . . at least for the time being. DEADLINE FOR NEXT ISSUE IS TUESDAY, APRIL 6

Page 12 OONCORDIENSIS, March 4, 19814 ! '' • '' • • : ' • ~rts & Culture ' ,: . . \ < . . -'· . ': '' . . . . :• . - ,, ' ~ ;_. Macbeth Proiect Succeeds ByP.L.G. Despite some relatively minor inconsistencies, The Ma~beth Project generally succeeds both as an important classical theatrical production and as an entertaining evening. After being escorted into the theater, one is transported into another time and place. The theater is eerie, dark and for- boding, foreshadowing the events that will take place. Almost immediately, the audience is presented with the three \Weird Sisters\ in a brilliantly staged sequence that incorporates the best of technical theater; skillful makeup, and costumes, ingenious and effective lighting effects, and brilliant sound effects. The total effect of the scene is nearly overwhelming and may indeed be the best scene in the production. Macbeth is a difficult play to act, but George Siletzky in the lead carries the production with power and skill that can only be judged as excellent. Never is there a weak moment,,line or expression delivered by Mr. Siletzky. It is quite obvious that Mr. Siletzky soars above the rest of the cast in all aspects of acting ability. The play weakens when one examines the contributions of the other members of the cast, for as good as Mr. Siletzky is, that very ~?ct makes other members of the cast look worse in comparison. As a result, the project tends to serve, whether intentionally or unintentionally, as a showcase for Mr . .Siletzky' s talents. This general feeling is not meant to imply that the other performances in the show were poor; the opposite is true, many of the performances taken on their own merit were quite good. Of particular note were Bambi Schlauch as Lady Macbeth and Robert Quish as Banquo. Ms. Schlauch was at her finest in her scenes with Mr. Siletzky. They were able to convey the complex interaction of feelings that are so vital to Macbeth's motivation, and consequently, the plot. There were times in her performance, however, when apparent lack of direction allowed Ms. Schlauch to lapse into slight overacting. With slightly more control during her monologues, Ms. Schlauch's performance would have been excellent; it remains, however, very, very good. R.ob Quish's Banquo was compassionate and un- derstanding, loyal and vengeful. His was another v~ry solid performance, and, like Ms. Schlauch, Mr. Quish was at his best when playing off Mr. Siletzky. Interestingly enough, both of the strong~st student per- formances were delivered by students who had the most opportunity to interact with Mr. Siletzky. More than just being good actors in their own right, one cannot help but believe that some of Mr. Siletzky's ability \rubbed off\ on his supports. One of the great disap- pointments of the production was actor Tree Barton's presentation of King Duncan. Mr. Barton's acting was weak in nearly every aspect. His gestures were artificial and seemed strained, and the way he delivered his lines was void of even the slightest feeling or authority. Another weak performance was delivered by Greg Duc- zynski in the role of. Macduff. Although not nearly as disap- pointing as Duncan, Macduff didnot possess nearly the power and authority that the character demands. Mr. Duczynski was guilty of extre~ overacting, particularly in his reaction to the murder of Lady Macduff. The rest of the cast turned in solid performances, on the whole. Particularly noteworthy were Adam Storke in the role of Malcom, and Eric Ruben, Ira Baron, and· Steve Auerbach in their respective roles. Robert Ketterer delivered interesting characterizations as the Doctor and the Old Man. Anna Tucker's Lady Macduff was adequate, however she seemed to lack the grace and class that should make her at least superficially similar to Lady Macbeth. Although caring and controlied, Ms. Tucker did not provide the intensity that would have improved her character. Tom Rice, in the role of the Porter, did only a fair job delivering the \Beelzebub\ monologue in a drunken stupor. He improved within the speech, however, and the audience loved this magnificent example of Shakespearean wit. Special mention must be given to Natalie Barandes, Elizabeth Baker and Lora Nelson who contributed so beautifully to the play in the supernatural characters of the Weird Sisters. Their fluid, ballet-like movements provided as much magic to their scenes Continued on page 15 One of the Weird Sisters from the Macbeth Pro jed foretells Macbeth's doom. And SONY Champagne uality •.. SONY: WALK MAN S7BBB SONY: SONY WM-1 SJ3444 SONY WM-11 sass a ·WM II AM/F M CASSETTE STEREO CFS-6 1 S $.J.9!t CFS-43 s·g495 D~luxe s 14888 Stereo · Grant $Ito Stereo FM WALKMAN ~···On A Beer Budge-t SONY. ~s99's FREE: SONY MAGNETIC CARTRIDGE & DIAMOND PS- 1 50 STYLUS with PS-15 0 Turntable • Direct Drive • Automatic Arm Return Quantities Limited-Hurry In!! SONY TCM-131 $3888 .. \The Note Taker'' SONY QUAUTY,IN A LOW-PRICE HAND~ HELD PORTABLl: WITH BUILTIN MICROPHONE Every Hour Is Happy Hour At Action Audio Remember: We Service What We Sell-Satisfaction Guaranteed!! (i DISCWASHER f'\_ D4 IECORD CAIE SYSTEM CENTRAL AVE.. · COLONIE-. 0 CENTER SAND CREEK RD. BEEFSTEAK c::::1 Ci'lARliES METRO DRIVE ACTION AUDIO 1t ALBAN·Y STORE Pll: 459-8056 WOlF RD. HOURS: Mcndayrhru Friday10a.m. ro 6 p.m. S.Orurdav I 0 a.m. io 6 p,rn. Sunday 12 p.m. to 5 p.m. G.E. Quanthlao Ltmlt.d Not R.,. poneiblo lor Typouraphlcol Er· .... SCHENECTADY PH: 312-8805 HOURS: Mon.·Thun. 9 a.m. to 6p.m. Friday 9 a.m. to 8 p.m- S.Oturday 10 a,m,. to$ p.m. ~KENWOOD ~ SJBBB l' New 'f. AH-3 Featherweight' STEREO PHONES

OONOORDIENSIS, March 4, 1982 Page 18 ~rts & Culture . ' , ' . . . ' ~- . - . ..: ' . . . . . . . . Lou Reed's ••alue Mask'' Union C611ege Concert Committee Artd .Budweiser Present: ByiJOBFOX Arts Editor The social and musical at- mosphere of the mid sixties was one of euphoria and good feelings. In contrast to the prevalent lightheartedness was the Velvet Underground; with Lou Reed as composer and lead singer. In dealing with themes of \perversity death and desperation, Lou Reed essen- tially fathered the punk-new wave movement. However, Reed was not one to carry oil that tradition, in fact his career has been one of ex- perimentation and search. Lou Reed was a middle class kid in Brooklyn, a clasSical piano student turned rocker. Since he left the Velvet Underground, Reed has made eleven solo albums, ranging in style and content from a jumble of electronic noise (Metal Machine Music):, to what critic Ellen Willis .says of his latest album, The Blue Mask, \a spiritual record of a decade in (his) life.\ Upon leaving the Velvet Underground in 1970, and. ef- fectively breaking up the band, Lou Reed set out to find a solo identity. His debut attempt, s1mply titled Lou Reed, did not do a solid job defining that identity, but does contain several popular songs, in- cluding \Wild Child.\ For his second album,- Reed hired David Bowie as ~ producer. Transformer is deceptively subtle in its comnientaries on life and society. Propelled by the hit single \Walk on the Wild Side,\ Transformer went gold in 1973. The next six years yielded five new albums and two live releases. Berlin, from 1974, investigates the nuances of the war between the sexes. Sally Can't Dance was a commercial success; Metal Machine Music was just the opposite. Street Hassle, Reed's first post-new wave album, an- swered the punks clearly. The grand old man was by no means over the hill, but he was fun- damentally different from the punk rockers. He was not cynical, he was pessimistic, but the struggle for love and sur- vival was all important and Lou Reed was not about to give up. Neither had Reed mellowed with.age, his next release, Take No Prisoners, is a two-record live set that defies a definition of mellow. His more recent albums, The Bells and Growing Up in 'Public, highlight again Reed's com- passion, anger, and. frustration at people's need for love and our stubborn defenses against it. , The Blue Mask is a collection of ten new songs, all of them written and produced by Lou Reed. Reed sings in his characteristic, gravelly half talk, and plays guitar along with the fine musician Robert Quine. The undertones of the hard city street, death and fear permeate the songs, remnants of the Velvet Underground days, but Reed has matured, his scope is more comprehensive, and his comments are subtly masked. One of the most powerfui songs, \'rhe Day John Kennedy Died,\ is a punctual presentation of memories .from a time our generation barely missed, above all, a time of hope and good prospects. \Women\ has the potential to · be misunderstood. It is a tribute to women, not a political statement or a social comment. In \My House,\ Reed mourns the death of a poet and a friend but revels in the knowledge that the spirit of poetry lives on. He, however, choses life over poetic immortality: \I've really got a lucky life - My writing, my motorcycle and my wife.\ Implicitly, Reed shows his frustration with handgun violence in the song \The Gun,\ with a simple depiction of a man with a gun: \Don't mess with me - .Carrying a gun.\ He also exploits the usual themes of the city, alcohol and fear in \Underneath the Bot- tle,\ and \Waves of Fear,\ but the songs don't make a lasting impact, Reed's limited vocal ability and uninspired lead guitar hinder the effectiveness of a few cuts. The title track seems to be an extremely complex exploration of soul, self and psyche, a song I wouldn't try to criticize without £ASTER CRUISE 7 day Carib. Cruise R.T. Air-Alb. to Miami All Cruise Amenities S.S. Festivals from $1064 FLORIDAfrom NYC$69oneway SAN JUAN from NYC $178 round trip also Twenty days in Europe from $1395 -- UNION STUDENTs-We book all kinds of 1\\1 uuu:>. travel including terms abroad, trips home, etc. t;;t\)~~ Van ·Curler Travel Inc.~ ovt<-Cl Schenectady 611 State Street 374 8 3176 __. SMITH HOUSE PARTY Friday Night, March 5 Blow Off your thesis and come celeora.t-e-100 days till Graduation I JORMA KAUKONEN knowing a lot more about Lou · Reed and his motivations. If there is a standout on this album, it's \'The Day John Kennedy Died,\ hut none of these songs will make it to a jukebox. For sheer en- tertainment. there is nothing here to rival \Walk on the Wild Side,\ but in light .of where Lou Reed has been and what he has done, the album is a logical, intellectual and emotional statement of how he has changed. with special guest: RICK DANKO Monday, March 8, 1982 in the Memorial Chapel at 8:00p.m. Tickets on sale in Carnegie Ha II Box Office $4.00with Union ID Rector Sets up Good Talk By NORMAN BIRNBACH Staff Last Thursday, poet Liam Rector spoke at Union College, the fourth poet and the last of the term to be co-sponsored by the IDOL and the English Department. Rector teaches at Philips Andover Academy. Visiting Professor of English Jordan Smith has been responsible for procurring Rector and the three other poets who have spoken here this year. Unlike many other poets and writers who make their living by teaching, Rector enjoys teaching. He likes it because it keeps him in touch. He enjoys teaching adolescents, because it's interesting to observe his students as they come of age, as they become men and women. Sexuality is everywhere, as far as Rector is concerned, which he expresses in his poetry. Because men and women are different, \that's what makes things interesting.'' Rector said. Poems help him live. That, for him, is the purpose of Rector's poetry. \Poetry gives you a language for experience or lack of experience. It gives you a language for depression; it gives you a language for exultation.\ But poetry is also political, and should always be political; although, he com- mented, purely political poetry is usually bad. This is because when he writes, he thinks \I am writing to someone. Knowing- anyone is inherently political.\ And as far as politics are concerned, Rector is an avowed Marxist. America, Rector believes, is \so suburban. It's wonderful.\ It is wonderful because in our \zany democracy,\ people like \trashy things.\ Poets, he said, \are cutting themselves off from the rest of society by talking about things most people don't understand.\ \You'll never get into People Magazine because of your poetry,\ he added. Rector writes usually in free verse, although he keeps very much in mind the works of earlier poets. His poetry is real, using definite symbols of a modern era, sexual, and funny. In his \Driving December,\ one character says, \Take it off, Johnny. Time for bedlam.\ Other poems read were \Staying Up For England,\ \The Rumor,\ and \The Origins of A-R-T.\ SCHENECTADY ARTS COUNCIL Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday i Booke Sandwiched 1. International 2 SC'otia.~Clenville 3 Scotia-Gl~nvillc 4 ''Appl.a.ui'IC''' 5 ''ApplallSf\\ 6 ~ ~~~b;.a~~~dyD~~b~~tr.(c:l. Concert Seri~IJ lgh, ~r. Hl~!h MuBic in our 'Schools Schcly LiJ!ht Opi\ra conl!llUI\o.l Baker r~vlpws \The pnion Colleee, Mem- lnetrumentat Concert ART EXHIBIT Stntl'- Slrt'tt Union CniJrJ!r lh.P<llrc.- ~ White Hotf'l'' by D.M oria! Chapel 8 p.m. 7:30 p.m. Community State clu·urston tn Nl\w York' ~~~l) Thoma& ~ noon Bartok Strine Quarte Bank, State Street \The Wond<\tB nf \Crtmcs of thr Hea1 t\ 0 \School Dazell Karen Rosasco, Mal!k\ Srhuharu• Counctl o! -~ Unwa Gollege 8 wlc. 11 Nlnotchka, Albany Linton H•gh School Watercolors Procturs, 8 p.m. lhp Arts \Papnon:roklnS!' . Civic Theatre 9:30 and 1 p m \Nu10tchka\ lnp:r Panko. PluJhp . cred•! course, \De· by A .A U W ' Albany C1v1c 11u:•atl-t\ Yo'W,I}• t1ary Clark ;:t'{:fn1sn.f. your Career • • • • ' ar z Gommu.nity GoiRe7 . . a· . 9 10 \Applause\ 11 \Appla.nflr:>\ 12 Hrrkohtr~ A\'\1..-1 13 M · A 1 Geor~te Wetnheme:; ART EXHIBlT uuca ntqua ~-\--'e Sc:hdy Savln~~:s Richard Sir:iliano ART EXHlBI \f Schdy l o~ht Optora cont~nuerl 'Rnrnr-u ~ J••lor-t' Cham.bor Ense .. .-~l Bank, Bellevue Photos Alton Painter, Oils ART EXHIBIT Schrly Symph••ny Proctt•rs ll p.m. ~~~::~y ~ptl!!~pal thru Apt'H l7 Gi.ty-Ha.ll Martha Wagner, Ingc Pan~o. Watcrcol ora Tots Concf'rt n1on Cullr!--'f\ Wrlt,.rs' , 11 P• • CDPC Shared Scrvic Dough Figures C€\nler Ctty q ;J.,m. Workshop \Frf'n\ ln- ~;i;~~=d ::ict~:~~=t Capital Repertory enter, Franklin St .. Stan Olekltak Lombardi Lr~w Offic s GhilclrC\n'~ Cnm!\r! sptratton tn Crafttnp:'' . uTable Manners Nadine Justln, Handcarved Decoys GHda Batta1mo,Mlxed 10 a m, '\Appla•IS<''' cnntl!lllt\d 7 · 30 p.m. Free Thru thf' 2lst Photoll Schdy Savin~s Bank r:hdy Fcd.S~vlngg Prot:rors tr[:tn Schol:!rshop _ Suburban Gcuncil Table Talks, Noon mpl;:-;5~za. State Street Mny[:ur Plaza Compclot1nn, S• h..J~· Music Festival i.brar~, Eugene Darn T 1 Th 0 Symphony, lsi Rl'fnrmr- Fjm~.i~. Stf:~e Pla.~a \EI Salvador\' wy .a 8 p~~. a. nee \Applause\ 14 Marilyn Horne 15 16 RT -EXHIB;T 17 Schdy Art Socil'l18 Oct:tvn SlnR,rr!l 19 Jr. Lr'l~''\' 20 Scholy L!J!hl Opera Proctors, 8 p.m. S<:hdy Arts Council Gl'orgia Rankin St.Georg~'s Gre.Jt Ha 1 Rachmamn.-.{f V<'s~r \ F•·lbr~. Ptn• ~5 _.u, State Street 8 p. n , Mcmberohlp Meetin Estelle Sauter Memb~r mechnR Unonn Cnll('J:P Mn11o- rcedom Forum Noon. Museum watercolors 7:30 P.M. ri<~l Chilpd 8 p.m. ''Th{\ Ttn•r nf vu•11 ''Sweeney Tor1d\ Dr, Richard Garwin H<'IRa Prichard ART EXHIBIT \Tnnp o( Ynnr l.1f('\ L1h•' 'cmt•n•ll\fl Pro'ctor 8 • 8 p. m, Unitarian Church olle Ht\lR·a Pi~Choird, Sch~ly C1vtc Playrr<J AR r EX!IHH 1 E npirr: Youth Theatr 8 p.m. Key Bank watrrco\ora Jr. \LPagUt\ Folli~s ·Hr-;t:;;::;~nk(' · otl!! he Capitol Chamber Table Tall<: a, Noon 436 Slate Strf'rt Chamber oi Gommrr r \Wr'vc Come a Gt-..'lnnt-1 h Artiste Library, John Daw StatE\ ~trect Lon!'! Way Baby\ Dorothy Ga••L Photos U.S. decisions oh Prhctora. B p.m. (i;nah<ln!' For 'Pnli 1 ' 21 chdy Symphooy 2 ~ \ 2.t;l 24 •·su••• 8ablc•\ 25 \Su•u BabiOs\ 26b11«y 400 27 aohion Show & Sur,ar: Babic!J •'-I 11 Proctors, 8 P· m. ~re.l'plion 7 tn 4 p.m. Steven 'Rosenberry, tLuncheon, noon Proctors, 8 ·P.M. lfhe- 'I'!mc of Your \TJme o( Your Lift\' \Tinl(' nC Your Life-\ organist L~T,Itrf Inn. Wolf Rd. , Life'', Schdy Civic \Tirne of Your Life'' ''Ouye t. DollsRp.m''Suf'!tlr Rahit\\s\ ht United M<\thodist 1'--'mon Collef!c. 5 w1~. Cuisine· Dulne at the Players. Church St. S(.hdy Civic Play~rs SetHI., -G1c>nvillr 1-!orh ProftrJS z ,_, 8 p. m 7:30p.m. Frf\t' ours(!: \'Beyond Sesa e Maharaj:~h ART E:XHIBIT \lltru tl•c 28th Int't. Conc.Prt Srrtt\s L~pt_'\• 8 wl~. \Creative- 'Sugar Babies\ Dr. Wm. Yonng,Phol ART F.XJIIB1T ns('•nbl\ rrotn Marlbu I\ ritlng 11 370-6?~8 Play Festival at Proctors, B P.M. \st National B\ll1k Dobby Dowdf'n. waiC\rcn ors Mrmnnal Chapr-1 T.able Talks, Libt\ary S.U.N.Y. Erte Blvd. chdy F••d.Savlngs, C<>ptl<\1 [t('p~;>rlury Woon, Doria Lang 11 Inm llamilton,fbyrcadl g BE.>h:>vur \Stn•('h ar N:rom~;>d , LibntT)' 3 p,m. Llt,Se~rles,Ubra~y. 10 0f'.!llrt•\ thru April 11 +-,5-uga-r Ba-bl:•---,\ '),-:;ad-. -----::2=-;9:4---- 3fl 31 Proctors. B _P·~ · American Ballet.:_ ''The Man Who '\\ Am~rican Ballet Burnt i-HllG Oralorio ~'heatre ll llated Spring\ Theatre II all S~hubert 3 p.m. Proctors, 8 p.m. Llnto11 Hillh 9:30 & Proctors, 8 p.m. Jv[· arc li B·H lvlcthPdi&t Church 1 p. m, The Time of Your Ll \Fiddler on the Roo 11 P!a.y Fcollval,SUNY Schdy Civic: Playprs Empire State Plaza Am. BallE\t Theatre 2. P• rr.. 11 Streelear N~med -beci re\ Proc:tore: Schcly Art Socl.ely Caplt~1 R~p~rtory Reception Z·4:30· Table Talkn, ,noon · St,Georgo's Great l-l 1 Li.brary, D 1 Welntrau ~-----Cultural Calendar 374-3321-------~ p w A E Over Vacation a. E E · K Don 1 f Forget N E T N To Remind S MAY 0 2-H,III& y p t our aren s ••• . ..;

Page 14 Cabaret Notes The Tri-Delta Cabaret on Tuesday, February 23, marked the sorority's second successful attempt at fund raising. (The first being the infamous \Nuts and Bolts\ party last month.) A two-dollar donation to Cancer Care allowed one to enjoy an unforgettable evening at Cabaret. M.C. Cindy Tenner started off the show in the Tri- Delta spirit; with love and energy. As the show continued the excellent level of en- tertainment was maintained. Particularly notable were the performances of Beth Loose, Carla Cogan, Gigi Gerau and Judybeth Greene. Once again Tri-Delt's own Dani Raphael stunned the audience with her incredible vocal talents. As Dani sang \The Rose,\ \Anticipation\ and \Lose Again\ comments such as \Why is she in Schenectady?· Sbe should be making records somewhere\ were heard thr()ughout the audience. We were · treated to some comic relief as the \Stop-Stop's\ depicted the eating habits of Union women. The sisters were organized by Dani Raphael and accompanied on the piano by · Del>bie Poskanzer. They all did a commendable job of running the Cabaret as well as providing first rate entertainment. Lights Out? The lights didn't dim last Thursday to signal the begin- ning of Cabaret. The lighting system wasn't working. Nevertheless, the evening's performers succeeded in providing top-notch en- · tertainment. M. C. John Skinner introduced himself as a Fresh- man English major completely boggled by computer science lingo. After a few somewhat humorous and tasteful jokes, John; introduced the first act. OONOOBDIENSIS, March. 4, 198! ~rts & Culture ' Julie Wildman sang and was accompanied on piano by Steve Koelbel and on guitar by Chris Delsignore. The tunes started a bit mellow with \Tapestry\ and \My Heart Belongs to Me\ but, very soon, · picked up to a quicker pace with \Don't Stop\ and \Proud Mary.'' Excellent back-ups were provided by Chris Delsignore. The highlight of the act was Julie's encore per- formance of \Teenager in Love.\ Three people who certainly enjoyed what they were doing as well as being good at it were Dave Haviland, Karen Weisgerber, and Greg Meyer. With Dave and Karen on guitar (with the former having an occasional stint on the man- dolin) and Greg on the banjo, they enchanted the audience with Bluegrass music. Karen's voice filled the room with many familiar folk tunes. Dave's rendition of the \Tennessee Stud\ was topped only by the group's performance of \The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down\ complete with audience participation. The ''BWerly Hillbillies Song\ really had the audience jumping. As Dave is taking a term abroad in Vienna this spring and Greg will be off to med school in the fall, Union has seen the last of this unique and wonderful trio. Certainly Union's loss. lvSA Concertj ByJMS Friday night in Memorial chapel, a free classical music concert was given by The Virtuoso Society of America, Inc. The group is dedicated to exposing talented solo musicians to the community. Among the musicians were Edwin Gay and David Goldhirsh, who played a beautiful cornet and piano duet. Allan Alexander impressed the audience with his classical guitar solo of Leyenda by Isaac Albinez. Thomas Savoy delighted the audience with his rendition of the Grand Choeur Dialogue. The other performers were Nathaniel Fossner who played the oboe and performed a duet with pianist Ruth Goldstein. Karen Ranung, a soprano with a melodic voice was accompanied by John Duke on the piano with solos written by Sara Teasdale. Michael EmerY. accompanied David Goldhirsch on the violin for a beautiful interpretation of Romance and Allegro moderato (alla Zingara) by Henr~ Wieniawski. The concert was enjoyable and entertaining for all who went. PHOTO CLUB ''Winter-At Union'' CONTEST WINNERS The winners of the Photo Club's contest have· been announced. The entries were judged by Assistant Professor of the Arts Martin Benjamin. Robert Tang won first place (left), and will receive $75. Shawne McCord received second place honors, as well as $25. Both Shawne and Robert w iII receive free use of the darkroom during Spring Term. CONCERT REMINDER Ken Hensley J.B. Scoff's March 4 Arlo Guth,rie J.B. Scott's March 13 Nick lowe J.B. Scott's March 17 The Ramones J.B. Scott's March 25 ' -AND- - Ozzy Osborne Glens Falls April 11 Grateful Dead Glens Falls Campus Protestant Fellowship Sun_ days: ~~IT-= 4th floor February 28, .,{( •t--r ~ lounge, March 7 and 14th at 7 p.m. Carnegie I 'V » WORSHIP DURING LENT I

.. n ), d d OONOORDIENSIS, March 4, 198S Page 15 Conduct Committee Report • • • Continued from page .3 f t BLAS ( . . U ur~, . · or any campus a~ to prevent any further terproductively) with college The racial atmosphere is no vertising for the party when orgamz~t10n~ sh?ul~. be more violence on campus. The students on campus. Students worse since the January 3cth instructed to do S() by the responsible .rn ptckmg -~~~d.ers Gonduct Committee finds the should also understand that incident. The Union students leaders of B'LAS. Kn()wing that and delegatmg responsibilities. above ment~o~ed students in- they must respect the authority involved in the fight were im- the leaders of BLAS refused to Had th~ .. leE4d~rs of B~ been nocent of cr~al behavior. of the police especially in such pressed with the behavior of sponsor the party, Asare took on more diligent m checking to see 5) ~e _followmg people and situations as the January 30th fellow Union students regar- the responsibility of acting as that ~are had followed. through orgamzatmns should receive incident. dless of race. There are isolated sponsor. As such, he should on the~r recommendatiOn, and letters exonorating them: changes of racial attitudes have supervised the party e_ducatmg A~are on the pr~c- 1) Psi Upsilon Fraternity .7) The Conduct Committee among a few students as a better. For instance, he should tlces of Umon College wtth 2) Steve KU~en encourages the integration and resul_t of being beaten up. have made it clear to the D.J.. re~p~ct ~o party rules, much of 3) Peter Zaftan mainstreaming of various This report was approved and his friend that the party th1s. mc1dent could h~v~ ~en 4) David Ferguson Union ethnic groups into the unanimously by the Union was only for BLAS members avoided. or a~ least nun~lZed. 5) Paul Ziletsky Union Community. College Conduct Committee. from Union and area colleges. 3) Psi l!psilon, ~teve Kileen, 6) Drew Hurley He should have been more Peter Zaf1an, David Ferguson, 7) David Johns aware of what was being served and ~a~l Ziletsky- 8) Joe Maneen (i.e., he should have been aware Individuals who happened to 9) Tom VanTassel of the alcohol brought in by the be brothers of Psi U were in- 10) Michael Rogers D.J.). He also should have checked for college. LD. 's so as I Macbeth Project • • .j • to avoid the presence of ''townies\ at the party. The committee finds Asare guilty of acting irresponsibly although his intent was not malicious. Yet, this does not relieve him of his respon- sibilities as sponsor of the party. Had BLAS sponsored the party, Asare would not be solely responsible. But, he ought to have familiarized himself with the rules and acted accordingly. He .at least should have com- plied with the leaders of BLAS' instructions to change the party permission form and ad- vertising. It was possible that Asare could have misun- derstood the BLAS leaders to mean that he could continue with his plans so long as BLAS was not financially responsible. Since his intent was not malicious, the Conduct Com- mittee suggests a strong letter of reprimand recommending that he take more care to un- derstand and comply with the rules when having future parties. Ignorance was no excuse although it was an ex- planation. Since he was the sponsor of the party, he must take responsiblity for the party. Union College students should realize that they are responsible for the actions of their guests. Continued from page 12 as any of the technical wizar- dry. The most pleasant surprise of the production was the sophisticated audio effects designed by Michael Dellario and Ira Baron. The effects defy description here, but suffice it to say that their contribution was a valuable one, and this critic sincerely hopes that high quality sound effects such as was evident in Macbeth will continue to be a part of Union theater in the future. 2; BLAS- Although at one time BLAS asked Asare to act as Social Chairman for a BHM event, BLAS did not have any part in, the planning or running of this party. However, BLAS should have taken positive steps to make sure that the BLAS name was taken off the party per- mission form and advertising. They also did not make sure that Asare had done so. Since BLAS was not responsible for the actual party, they are n~t responsible for the alcohol served, nor the \townies\ present. The Conduct Com- mittee suggests that in the volved in the fight. However, in no way was Psi U, as an organization or group, involved. The above mentioned in- dividuals fought after being provoked verbally and physically. Their actions were totally in self-defense. Others joined the fight attempting to either break it up or to aid people who were being beaten up. As the fight grew, more people became involved. There were racial slurs but only after the fight began. The Conduct Committee finds the above mentioned innocent of blatantly obscene or offensive behavior. They fought in self-defense. 4) Drew Hurley, David (\Chip\) Johns, Joe Maneen, Tom (\Slab\) VanTassel, and Mike Rogers- The· above mentioned were arrested for \being in the wrong place at the wrong time.\ They were victims of circwnstance. Union College students in general are not used to being told what to do by police on campus. Rather, they are familiar with campus security who reacts slowly, if at all. Students, therefore, questioned the police as to what was going on. The police were not familiar with being questioned. Rather, they expected , immediate compliance. They were agitated by the fight and the attitude of Union College students not to act in immediate accordance with their orders. Thus, students were arrested. The police were unfamiliar with dealing with students. The police were acting in such a way ~~f~ COUNTRY CUISINE Featuring an Eclectic Menu serving lunch - Cocktails - Dinner Before & After Theatre Dining Mon. & Tues. (lunch, cocktails, light fare} Wed. thru Sat. {also serving dinner) SUNDAY .. \Strawberry Champagne Brunch\ ll am· 3 pm Entrees from $2.95 - including champagne PRIVATE PARTIES Reservations: 393-0439 11 0n the lce 11 Center City Schenectady B. General Recommendations to Alleviate Future Problems 1) Change Party Permission Form a) Change response to the question \open to . . . \ from members, college community, andwor public to members., Union College Community, other college students (specify which colleges) and-or public. b) The Student Activities Office should check with the leaders of the organization in question to varify their honest representation. c) The form should be co- signed by the president or chairperson of the organization or the RA. • 2) Union College students should realize that they are responsible for the actions of their guests. In general, better supervision of non-Union student guests. 3) Due to a lack of bathroom facilities, the Conduct Com- mittee supports that Old Chapel should not be used for social functions until bathroom facilities are installed. 4) Security should be in- creased in highly populated party areas and on normal \social\ evenings (Tuesday, Friday and Saturday). ' 5) The policy of registering parties with the Student Affairs- Activities Office should con- tinue. 6) The Schenectady Police Department and Union College Security should examine methods of dealing effectively (rather than coun- Daro Beninati's lighting design was masterful. His use of color and shadow was par- ticularly enjoyable. Most im- pressive, however, were the effects of the dagger vision and the ghosts that succeeded solely on the basis of Mr. Beninati's ingenious use of lights, as did the Weird Sisters scenes. Charles Steckler's set design was beautifully stylish and simple~ marred only by the rather incongrous use of ob- viously modern table lamps. The set remained functional and symbolic, particularly evident in Steckler's use of tree branches to foreshadow Macbeth's downfall. Costumes and props were technical areas of the show that were filled with inconsistencies. Blatantly inconsistent was the costuming of Lady Macduff. Like Lady Macbeth, Lady Macduff is also a Scottish aristocrat!; why then, is Lady Macbeth dressed in a beautiful, classy gown, while Lady Macduff dressed like a peasant? Central and key to Macbeth is the frequent wielding (and use) of daggers. Why then, in a production §O professionally executed, must the actors Judge the patentability of scientific and engineering dis- coveries made by R & D engineers, inventors, and scientists world wide as a Patent Examiner in Washington, D.C. The Patent and Trademark Office offers unique career opportunities with • Challenge and responsibility • Career growth • Outstar:Jding career Federal Government service benefits For more information about a career as a Patent Examiner contact: Manager, College Relations 126-202 Personnel. CP2'-9C05 Patent and Trademark Office Washington, D.C. 20231 Call toll-free: 800-368-3064 (703) 557-7626 Wash., D.C. area resort to brandishing wooden daggers, painted some strange shade of red, no less? Although many in- consistencies were pointed out in the review, the project succeeds as a whole, the whole being greater than the sum of the parts. The major strength of the project rests in its author. Shakesp.eare's characters, although extremely complex, are .also marvelously cap- tivating. Shakespeare's monologues and dialogues, unparallelled in literature, rivet the audience, so that a monologue such as Macbeth's \Out out, brief candle\ with a reasonable delivery, cannot help but succeed. The Macbeth Project will run through this Saturday in the Nott Memorial. R.A.'s ••• Continued from page 7 in any way they can. Beth Donaghue sums it up well: \A lot of people don't realize that this is something we want to do.\ She feels that many students don't go to their R.A.'s because they're afraid that they will be bothering them. \I want to be bothered and I wouldn't take the job if I· didn't want to be.\ . ·• So the next time ~ou see your R.A. walking down the hall, give him a nice big smile and say \Thanks for all the stuff you do for us on the floor.\ He may go into shock, but he'll ap- preciate when he realizes he's actually been given a com- pliment. SUP PORT UNI ON ACA DEM ICS • 1

Page 16 OONCORDIENSlS, March 4, 198S Gene:ral Nottices Women interested in at- tending the ''Frontiers in Seien('e and Engineering\ workshop to be held here at Union on April17 should inquire about applications in their respective departments. Registration is open to women majoring in mathernat·ics, science, engineering, and the social sciences and those considering a career ill those fields. Registration is limited, and applications are due by March 31. For further in- formation, please contact Prof. Margaret Shadier at 6244 or Rachel Mandel at 6155. Wom.en's History Week Colloquium Dr. Grace Jorgensen, Director of Bel:Ievue Maternity Hospital, Schenectady, N.Y. will present . a colloquium on \Women's Health Issues: A Brief Personal Historical Perspective\ on Tuesday, March 9, 1982 in Social Sciences Building, Room 016, 3:30 p.m. Dr. Jorgensen is the Director of Bellevue Maternity Hospital in Schenectady, founded by her mother 50 years ago. A graduate of New York Medical College, Dr. Jorgensen specializes in obstetrics, gynecology, and infertility. The Celia Glaubach Prize for Bible Scholarship Studies may be awarded for the first time at Prize Day 1982. Established in 1980, the prize is intended \to further interest in the cultural significance of the Bible from the secular point of view\. Entry into the competition for the prize requires submission of an essay dealing with a topic drawn from any of the following areas: \Literary and textual criticism of Biblical subjects; Union College Film Committee Presents ®1979 20TH CENTURY·FO>C TOM SKERRrrT SIGOURNEY WEAVER VERONICA CARTWRIGHT HARRY DEAN STANTON JOHN HURT IAN HOLM '\dYAPHET KOl'TQ::f..e, EXECUTIVE PRODUCER RONALO SHUSETT PRODUCED BV GORDON. CARROLL, DAVID GILER ood WALTER HILL DIRECTED BY RIDLEY SCOTI STORY BY DAN O\BANNON and RONALD Si1USETI SCFJEENPLAY BY DAN O'BANNON MUSlC JERRY GOLDSMITH PANA'VISION• EASTMAN KODAK COLOR• PAINTS BY DELuxe• .... ~;:;;;~~ .o<IM>, ... \' •• _. ~-~ c:-·T-~ ~o~ w:o:~ , ...... _. ~ :-\\... ... ....... ...... ' - - Rlt1'JtiCTD ~ ~ 70MM-(i]T~~I R tiJIIiiili-REOUiits.ID•rairiK LIIIIIIJ, .,..,.,,.,,\ .. •-n PW•T U QULT 'UA=IAI Tue., March 9 at 7, 9 & 11 : oo and Wed. at 10:30 • Ices Development and production- of a short story or play based on the Bible; Biblical archeology; Biblical historicity; or Philosophy of the Bible\. Students who wish to enter the competition should submit their materials pseudonymously :(accompanied by a sealed envelope containing the author's name) to Ms. Marge Windstone in Humanities 215 not later than March 31, 1982. Entries will be judged by an appropriate committee of faculty members brought together by the Department of Philosophy. WANTED: 100 People with $80 to participate in a marketing project that could earn you $12,000+ this year. Send $3 for details to: DWO and CO. P.O. Box 3256· Schenectady, N.Y. 12303 The Philosophy Department invites seniors to submit .essays in competition for the Milton Hymes Sternfeld Prize, which may be awarded at Prize Day 1982. The prize is awarded \for the best original essay in philosophy by a member of the senior class\. Entries will be judged and the prize awarded by the faculty of the depart- ment. Students who wish to enter the compe.,tition should submit their essays pseudonymously (.ac· companied by a sealed ·envelope - containing the author's 11ame) to Ms. Marge Windstone in , Hwnanities 215 not later than March 31, 1982; Further in- formation is available in the Philosophy Department. The Philos()phy Colloquiwn series is pleased to announce a talk. on Friday, March t;, 3:30 in HU 213 by Dr. Kat}lleen Wright of Haverford College on Heid egg er: Language's speaking and its subject? After the talk there will be discussion and refreshments will be available. Juniors who will be away from the Campus during the Spring Term and who will be writing a senior thesis in :Economics, lndustda:l Economies ,or Managerial Economics next year must complete a short form available in the Economics Department Office (SS Bldg., Room 212} as soon as possible. I'm interested in a .sublet. for the Slimmer-for af:ter graduation until sometime in August or beginning Sep- tember. Would prefer an apartment close to campus and almost fully furnished, if not fully furnished i.hclUdillg kit- Thursdmy, 'Mar. 4 at 7:00 and 11:00 LAST SHOW OF THE TERM!! Act One: 11 THE BANo•• Act Two: CHARLY T. and the UNDERGRADS featuring: Steve Mark, Fred Lyons, Jim Etkin Ken Kaufman and Brad Roberts M.C.: SAM DIDEO chen set-up. If interested, drop note in my box, No. 2202 leaving your name, address and telephone number. Rent negotiable. Administrative and Eng in eerin g Systems Colloquium presents John H. Shenefield, Partner, Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McClQy, New York and Washington, D.C~ who will present a colloquium en- titled Intelligence and Coun• terintelligence in the . Reagan Administration on Thursday, March 4, 1982, 3:45p.m., Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. Faculty, students, and the interested public are invited. SUMMER sublet wanted-one or two person apartment. Please contact Box 614 :or call 377-3905 as soon as possible (must know by finals week). OQ Tbe ·Greek fr~Qt Sigma Chi presents SO's Nite. This Saturday, March 6, from 10 p.m.- ? Appropriate dress is requested. Prizes for best costume. On Tbe Otber frorpt The Arts Department an- nounces the inauguration of an Italian Table in the Pub, Thursday, March 11 at 12:30. All those who have a \taste\ for Italian are invited regardless of their familiarity with the language. Those who either have been, or ihtend to go, to Italy are welcome. If in- terested, please contact Marisa at 6476 or box 1038 by Wed. March 10. Gay Group Social meeting--wine and munchies. Wednesday, March 10 at 8:00PM in HU Lounge. For more information call Dana 6860. Smith House's First Annual 100 days to Graduation Party, Friday March 5, 11:00. BE THERE! W()nten.'s Network Eveu.ts Today, Thursday, Marcll4, at 7:30 in Stage II, Carnegie Hall, Rev. Beverly Edwards will present the film ''In Her Own Image\ about Revr Edwards career and . family . life. Discussion and reception will fllow. All are welcome. Saturday, March 6, there will be a concert benefit for ''Aninia\ the feminist newspaper at Union. The band Quick Fix will be performing. Donations are $1.00 at the door. The benefit will be held in Old Chapel from 10:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m. Beer will' be served. All money Will go to \Anima~'. Union College Film Committee Presents ACORN (Association of Community Organizations (~ knoc~your ... sccks off, fantastically frightening an.d lusciously gory monster movie!' for Reform Now) will be on campus to interview candidates for summer volunteer internships. The position of Community Organizer entails working with low and moderate income families in one of 25 states for political and economic iustice. - Sign up now at the Career Center. • LIFE MAGAZINE AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON POLYC;RAM Pll'TURE~ I'R~SENT\ A. I.Yt'AN'HfROI'I> fii.MS I.IMITEIJ.I'ROr>Ul'TION A.N t\MERil'AN WEUWOLF IN LClNOON STARRIN(; DA\'IIl NAUCiHT(iN,J~NNY A(;UnlR, C;)UFFIN llUNNE &JOHN WOOilVINE llRI(iiNALMU;rt· llY ti.MUI BERNSTEIN EXK'UTIV~ I'ROilUt'lR~ I'HEIICilJ8ER &JON'I'ETER~ I'UC'DUC.:Eil RY UWRC il FOLSE Y,jR. WRITHNANili>IRI:l\TW IIY JOHN LA NIH~ Fri., Sat. and Sun. at 7, 9 & 11:00

Page 16 CONOOR.DIENSIS, March 4, 198! Ge,neral Nottices Women iRterested in at- tending the \Frontiers in Scienre and Engineering,' workshop to be held here at Union on April 17 should inquire about appHcations in their respective departments. Registration is open to women rnajaring in mathematics, science, engineering, and the social sciences and those considering a career in those fields. Registration is limited, and applications are due by March 31. For further in- formation, please contact Prof. Margaret Shadier at 6244 or Rachel Mandel at 6155. Women's History Week Colloquium Dr. Grace Jorgensen, Director of Bellevue Maternity Hospital, Schenectady, N.Y. will present a colloquium on \Women's Health Issues: A Brief Personal Historical Perspective'' on Tuesday, March 9, 1982 in Social Sciences Building, Room 016, 3:30 p.m. Dr. Jorgensen is the Director of Bellevue Maternity Hospital in Schenectady, founded by her mather 50 years ago. A graduate of New York Medical CoUege, Dr. Jorge11sen specializes in obstetrics, gynecology, and infertility. The Celia Glaubach Prize for Bible Scholarship Studies may be a warded for the first time at Prize Day 1982. Established in 1980, the prize is intended \to further interest in the cultural significance of the Bible from the secular point of view\. Entry into the competition for the prize requires submission of an essay dealing with a topic drawn from any of the following areas: \Literary and textual criticism of Biblical subjects; Union College Film Committee Presents rg 1979 20TH CENTURY FOX TOM SKERRITT SIGOURNEY WEAVER VERONICA CARTWRIGHT HARRY DEAN STANTON JOHN HURT IAN HOLMondYAPHETKOITQ~, EXECUTIVE PRODUCER RONALD SHUSETT PRODUCED BY GORDON CARROLL. DAVID GILEA ana WALTER HILL DIRECTED BY RIDLEY SCOTT STORY BY D~N 0 BANNON and RONALD SHUSEn SCREENPLAY BY DAN 0 BANNON MUSIC JERRY GOLDSMITH PANAV!SION 111 EASTMAN KODAK COLOR• PRINTS BY DELUXE • 000\- \'. loOI>IG7 ... co: ................ -- c:c\''\'' _,oucc-•• ·~..,.• \'\\'\' ·-• ot0011 Tue.,March9at7,9 & 11:00 and Wed. at 10:30 • Ices Development and production of a short story or play based on the Bible; Biblical archeology; Biblical historicity; or Philosophy of the Bible\. Students who wish to enter the competition should submit their materials pseudonymously (accompanied by a sealed envelope containing the author's name) to Ms. Marge Windstene in Humanities 215 not later than March 31, 1982. Entries will be judged by an appropriate committee of faculty m.embers brought together by the Department of Philosophy. WANTED: 100 People with $80 to participate in a marketing project that could earn you $12,000+ this year. Send $3 for details to: DWO and CO. P.O. Box 3256 Schenectady, N.Y. 12303 The Philosophy Department invites seniors to submit essays in competition for the Milton Hymes Sternfeld Prize, which may be awarded at Prize Day 1982. The prize is awarded \for the best original essay in philosophy by a member of the senior class\. Entries will be judged and the prize awarded by the faculty of the depart- ment. Students who wish to enter the competition should submit their essays pseudonymously ( ac- companied by a sealed envelope . containing the author's name) to Ms. Marge Windstone in , Humanities 215 not later than Match 31, 1982. Further in· formation is available in the Philosophy Department. The Philosophy Colloquium series is pleased to annowtce a talk on Friday, March 5, 3:30 in HU 213 by Dr. Kathleen Wright of Haverford College on Heidegger: Language's speaking and its subject? After the talk there will be discussion and refreshments will be available. Juniors who will be away from the Campus during the Spring Term and who will be writing a senior thes·is in Econom.ics, Industrial Economics or Managerial Economics next year must complete a short form available in the Economics Department Office {SS Bldg., Room 212) as soon as possible. l'm interested in a .sublet for the summer-for after graduation until sometime in August or beginning Sep- tember. Would prefer an apartment close to campus and almost fully furnished, if not fully furnished including kit- Thursday, Mar. 4 at 1:00 and 11 :00 lAST SHOW OF THE TERM!! Act One: \THE BAND .. Act Two: CHARL Y To and the UNDERGRADS featuring: Steve Mark, Fred Lyons, Jim Etkin Ken Kaufman and Brad Roberts M.C.: SAM DIDEO chen set-up. If interested, drop note in my box, No. 2202leaving your name, address and telephone number. Rent negotiable. Administrative and Engineering Systems Colloquium presents John H. Shenefield, Partner, Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, New Yol\k and Washington, D.C. who will present a colloquium en- titled Intelligence and CDun- terintelligence in the Reagan Administration on Thursday, March 4, 1982, 3:45p.m., Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. F acuity, students, and the interested public are invited. SUMMER sublet wanted-one or two person apartment. Please contact Box 614 or call 377-3905 as soon as possible (must know by finals week). OQ Tbe Greek fro:Qt Sigma Chi presents 50's Nite. This Saturday, March6, from 10 p.In.- ? Appropriate dress is requested. Prizes for best costume. Orp Tbe Otlper froqt The Arts Department an- nounces the inauguration of an Italian Table in the Pub, Thursday, March 11 at 12:30. All those who have a \taste\ for Italian are invited regardless of their familiarity with the language. Those who either have been, or intend to go, to Italy are welcome. If in- terested, please contact Marisa at 6476 or box: 1038 by Wed. March 10. Gay Group Social meeting--wine and munchies. Wednesday, March 10 at 8:00PM in lill Lo!lllge. For more information call Dana 6860. Smith House's First Annual 100 days to Graduation Party, Friday March 5, 11:00. BE THERE! Women's Network Events Today, Thursday, March 4, at 7:30 in Stage II, Carnegie Hall, Rev. Beverly Edwards will present the film ''In Her Own Image\ about Rev. Edwards career and family life. Discussion and rf)ception will mow. All are welcome. Saturday, March 6, there will be a concert benefit for \Anima\, the feminist newspaper at Union. The band Quick Fix: will be performing. Donations are $1.00 at the door. The benefit will be held in Old Chapel from 10:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m. Beer will beserved. All money will go to \Anima\. Union College Film Committee Presents ACORN (Association of Community Organizations '1\ knock_...your .. socks off, fantastically frightening and lusciously gory monster movie!' for Reform Now) will be on campus to interview candidates for summer volunteer internships. The position of Community Organizer entails working with low and moderate income families in one of 25 states for political and economic iustice. Sign up now at the Career Center. LIFE MA.GAZINE AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON POUC.J~AM PIClVIU.'-o f•R!:.'-11:.~1'·, A LYlANTHROI'f fll.M' I.IMITfoll·f'ROilUlTION Al'i AM~llll AN WER~WOI.f IN UlNOON \TAIIRJN(, HAVIll NAU<oHHlN, JtNNY A<iUTT~R. I·RIFFIN llL'NN~ & JOHN WO(lllVINl llRJ(,JNAI. MU\l RY U.Mllt BERNSTEIN tXHUTin PROilliUR' I'~HR (;URER &JON I'HER\ I,R•'Ill'l ~ ll RY <,HHU••- tOI. ... t. Y, JR. WRITH N ANillliRH Hll!W JOHN LAN Ill' Fri., Sat. and Sun. at 7, 9 & 11:00

ms H. ·en- gan the call 10 is if e. for Old All OONOORDIENSIS~ March 4, 1982 Page 17 e Ices . '~·- l\1et-It•s been an interesti,ng . term ... rm glad,. it's overt but -we had some gobd times,J)t~ so psyched fo.r March 23!! t We're going to have a wonderful time. Love ~u, Me. __ _ Happy belated birthday J~! _(a quarter? O()~Sl) 1-'b.anks for being a great friend and for puttin' ·up with my seit&da! Hope you had a nice birtbd:ay ( memot:a.ble anywayJ) Need a transfusion?. Luv YoiJ!\ friend forever, Spooc. Don s.-Ya gptta d() ·wbat ya gQtta do. Love-& Kisses, Ben B What. would YOtJ do for ~ bag of Hershey's . Cbo()olate Kisses?? I b~t you would even engage in a menage-a-trois with Mi .~ d- f'tl, .·· II - . SJ:tU all.---- 4M-0\'pU. From {}tte Barrett Sistet\ to- the , otber-Mammy 1 s waiting for us c>n the porch. .•• ·'- • mint f:alt!J>S _ on the lawn. TO . TARA! • ! Tbose Charming Barrett Sisters were presented .at the Gibson 1 & party un Thursday, Feb. 25-. Is Tara Wonderland? Agnes and Clarissa: Gone to the Orchard to. pick .Apples To wboe;ver is leaving Union on ~r~ l~th-Good luck, Best wishes~ and nave a nice life ... A sc>phonmre friend. · Let's get technical! Let me hear your algorithm . RSCCARP Kathy-Roses are Red} Br~s are soft, Happy B'day from, the guy in the loft Zot & Rothschild, Greg:...16 days till a 'wet' and The legend lives on . . • ! wild time in Orlando . . . Get psyched. Mike Air Force Mike-What did you 1mY you were going to lose in Florida? What would Susan say?G~ Screwdrivers, bikinis, oranges, grapefruit, ;:um, pina coladas. daquiris, tans . . . all SU9). up t~ a great time in Florida. .· · Dear 'Trouble! I have run out of witty things to say this week. I'll just h~ve to'·let you kno\W bow i feeT in other ways~ Love; -sweet Cheeks . Kathy-!.Jn your B'day, as always, all my love!!! !-:Gus RAT-Very Last Chance for I.F~ due tn real world conM RIM. - INTO MY LIFE YOU CAME BRINGING PEACE TO MY HEART FIRE TO MY BODY LOVE TO MY SOUL t Silsie-Itbink we needlt bad-I can't wait. Fla. is gonna be great!! I.L. Y. · -Arthur's friend Lauriet You are an awesome pupperl' Thanks for making me happy. Love, Tim Paul: The record shows, you took the blows and did it your way. Why then do I always get scratclred and bruised? Do you have a:il.y Baetine? Any ban- daids? If I get hurt in the fracas do I get compensation? Clare FILM COMMITTEE SCHEDULE SPRING '82 (tentative) WEEKENDS • $1.00 Time Bandits Goodbye Girl (free) Four Seasons Casablanca & Play It Again Sam Body Hea.t Arthur C Free Parents Wkn.) J;manuelle ??? Camp Union Outdoor Special WEDNESDAYS.· $1.00 TUESDAYS or THURSDAYS· FREE Midnight Express Taxi Driver-. Dr. No Rock 'n' Roll High School Seems Uke Old Times Paper Chase Eraserhead M+A+S+H Eyewitness APPEARING FRIDAY MARCH St My Brilliant Career (Women's Network) The 39 Steps Fantastic Planet The Aristocats Small Change A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum IN THE ·CARARET* . u ur .JI. T:(NG }8., P. (NG )d.R., C.(NG)R.~ Keep up the goo<! work while I\m goli~l'll start a NG branch in Austria. Q .. \ 1').., ' ~ - \. ' ' \ .. ~,.. .jCI Q ~\'-\'- \':·'.. Dad, Congrats on surviving February, all thr~e months ... ! · Rothschild · Schiska- See ya, Having fun with your slinky? B. (NG )G. the Schlksa users Out of stupid things oo say. J.-I always knew you had thanks f()r being a friend, Love h-.>+J...rn o · KAREN, HE'S BALD! KDP: Your hair looks terrific! ! Its really great. I like it better short. Please forgive me. Boneybear ••• , Love, Big Brother I miss your lovin' . . . . ! your Honey Victor-Hey baby, how are you? r miss seeing you. Ask me if I wrote this and rn say yes. Love you. Zorr(l: 100 ... have you been sleeping with the prof's again . . . ! McGee r ;~........ . DONNA TORRE HAVE THERE BEEN ANY HORNY TOADS IN YOUR BED LATELY? Q-unit: LOVE, MOJO QUO Congrats, you nerd, on your 100 percent in the Organic test. Keep on breaking thQSe curves! -G.M.C. Kathy-from a couple of guys, who love your jugs, happy B'day, from your favorite mugs. R,pb and Mel-Get psyched for hlstorisity! ! To the bf()tbers ·of Phi Delt- Being ho-sed as a way of life-! enjoy it. Marrone College Graduates: DISCOVER YOUR POTENTIAL AS A LAWYER'S ASSISTANT . . . at Adelphi! More and more law firms and corporations are hiring lawyer's assistants for challenging and rewarding careers. Salaries at all levels have increased with the extraordinary growth of this pro- fession, and top lawyer's assistants earn as much as $32,000. The Lawyer's Assistant Program at Adelphi University is the largest and oldest ABA-approved program of its kind in New York State, with more than 3,000 graduat~s. At Adelphi, it takes justthree months of concentrated daytime study (or six months in the evening) to prepare for a career as a lawyer's assistant. Courses offered in: GARDEN CITY, L.l., HUNTINGTON, L1. and MANHATTAN. Could This Be The Career You've Been Looking For? You owe it to yourself to find out! And you can-easily, and without cost or obligation. Meet with our recruiter who be at the placement office on campus _April 1 and find out: .MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY! Or. telephone right now: (51-6) 663-1004 Approved for V.A. and N.Y. S. Higher Education Loans. ___________________ m.. ___ ..., ____ _ The Lawy·er's Assistant Program Adelphi University Cial'den City, L.l., N.Y.ll530 In cooperation with The National Center for Paralegal Training, Inc. Name Address City State Please send me a copy of the Adelphi University Lawyer's Assistant Pro- gram catalog for 1982/83. Zip Home Phone School Phone ADElPHI UJJWTIW~TI1Ilf CCCOJIL,lLJE(GJE UNIVERSITY If(Q)J]S, WtLJJILJr~ Adelphi (]niversity Admits Students On The Basis Of lndit,idual Meril And Without Regard To Race. Color. Creed. Sex Or Age. ..

nd H. en- ed. ble t is wn fe. ist or. OONOORDIENSIS, March 4, 1982 Page 17 e Ices . ' . \}:~,;·: : ... ~.. ::~· · ersonn s; .,.. __ ......... _,.\\'.,\\' 0 '\\' 0 ---------L-.,.\'·---....11 lately? Signed, A NICE Guy. ditions.-G-R-K! Booth -Luce ... • ~ 0 ' sri • '- l . . \ ' . [ ~ ,·.~ \\ ------------------ Mel-It's been an interesting tenn ... I'm glad it's over, but we !lad some good times. l'tn so psyched for March 23! !! We're going to have a wonderful time. Betty Boop- Let's gettechnical! T ~( NG )8., P. {NG )d. R., Meet me behind the Idol for Let me hear your algorithm. C.{NG)H., Dad; Congrats on surviving an Arabian make--out session- Keep up the good work while 10:00 sharp. Be there-Al{}ha. RSCCARP I'm gone-1'11 start a NG branch in Austria. February. all three months ... ! Rothschild Love you, Me. · Happy belafed birthday Jtigs! (a quarter? OOPS!) Thanks for being a great friend and for puttin' up with my scitoda! H()pe you had a nice birthday (memorable anyway!) Need a tra11sfusion? Luv your friend fol'ever, Spooc. Don S.-Ya gotta d() what ya gotta do. Love & Kisses, Ben B Wllat.would YOU do for a bag of Hershey's Chocolate Kisses?? I bet you would even engage in a menage .. a .. trois with Mishu and Cho-pul ! From one Barrett Sister to the other-Mammy's waiting for us on the porch .•. mint juleps on the lawn. TO TARA!!! Those Charming Barrett Sisters were presented at the Gibson's party on Thursday, Feb. 25:. Is Tara Wonderland? Agnes and Clarissa: Gone to the Orchard to pick Apples To whoever is leaving Union on M~r. 18th-Good luck, Best wishes, and have a nice life , .. A sophomore friend. Greg;...16 days till a 'wet' and wild time in Orlando ... Get psyched. Mike Air Force Mike-What did you say you were going to los€ in Florida? What would Susan say? Greg Screwdrivers, bikinis, oranges, grapefruit, rum, pina coladas, daquiris, tans ... all sum up to a great time in Florida. · Dear Trouble: I have run out of witty things to say this week. l'll just have to let you know bow i feel in other ways. Love, Sweet Cheeks Kathy-on your B'day, as always, all my love!!! !-:(ius RAT-Very Last Chance for I.F. due to real world con- Kathy-Roses are Red, Bre~s are sGft, Happy B'day from, the guy in the loft Zot & Rothschild, The legend lives on . . . ! RIM. - INTO MY LIFE YOU CAME BRINGING PEACE 'TO MY HEART FIRE TO MY BODY LOVE TO MY SOUL Susie-I think weneed'it bad-I can't wait. Fla. is gonna be great!! I.L.V. -Arthur's friend Laurie, You are an awesome pupper!' Thanks for making me happy. L<>ve, Tim Paul: The record shows, you took the blows and did it your way. Why then do I always get scratched and bruised? Do you have any Bactine? Any han- daids? If I get hurt in the fracas do I get compensation? Clare FILM COMMITTEE SCHEDULE SPRING '82 (tentative} WEEKENDS • $1.00 Time Bandits Goodbye Girl (free) Four Seasons Casablanca & Play It Again Sam Body Heat Arthur (Free Parents Wkn.) ~manuelle ??? Camp Union Outdoor Special WEDNESDAYS • $1.00 TUESDAYS or THURSDAYS • FREE Taxi Driver . Dr. No Rock 'n' Roll High School Seems Like Old Times Paper Chase Eraserhead M+A+S+H Eyewitness APPEARING FRIDAY MARCH St 8:30P.M. Midnight Express My Brilliant Career (Women's Network) The 39 Steps Fantastic Planet The Aristocats Small Change A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum IN THE .. CARARET* Seeya, B.(NG)G. Out of stupid things to say, thanks for beln~ a friend, Love KEN KAsHUA .HARA KAREN, HE'S BALD! KDP: Your hair looks terrific! ! Its .really great. I like it better short. Please forgive me. Honeybear . . ., Love, Big Brother I miss your lovin' .... ! your Honey Victor-Hey baby, how are you? I miss seeing you. Ask me if I wrote this and 1\11 say yes. Love you. Zorro: 100 ... have you been sleeping with the prof's again , .. ! McGee Schiska- Having fun with your slinky? the Schiksa users J . ...,r always knew you had rhythm. 0. DONNA TORRE HAVE THERE BEEN ANY HORNY TOADS IN YOUR BED LATELY? Q-unit: LOVE, MOJO QUO Congrats, you nerd, on your 100 percen,t in the Organic test. Keep on breaking those curves! ....G.M.C. Kathy-from a couple of guys, who love your jugs, happy B'day, from your favorite mugs. R.ob and Mel .... Get psyched for historisity! t To the brothers of Phi Delt- Being hosed as a way of life-! enjoy it. · Marrone College Graduates: DISCOVER YOUR POTENTIAL AS A LAWYER'S ASSISTANT . . . at Adelphi! More and more law firms and corporations are hiring lawyer's assistants for challenging and rewarding careers. Salaries at all levels have increased with the extraordinary growth of this pro- fession, and top lawyer's assistants earn as much as $32,000. The Lawyer's Assistant Program at Adelphi University is the largest and oldest ABA·approved program of its kind in New York State, with more than 3,000 graduates. At Adelphi, it takes just three months of concentrated daytime study (or six months in the evening) to prepare for a career as a lawyer's assistant. Courses offered in: GARDEN CITY, LL, HUNTINGTON, L.L and MANHATTAN, Could This Be The Career You've Been Looking For? You owe it to yourself to find out! And you can- easily, and without cost or obligation. Meet with our recruiter who will be at the placement office on campus_ April 1 and find out: MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY! Or. telephone right now: (516) 663-1004 Approved for VA and N.'l: S. Higher Education Loans. __ _,__ _________________ ~-------- The Lawyer's Assistant Program Adelphi University Garden City, L.l., N.Y. 11530 In cooperation with The National Center for Paralegal Training, Inc. Please send me a copy of the Adelphi University Lawyer's Assistant Pro- gram catalog for 1982183. Name Address City State Zip Home Phone School Phone ADElPHI11JJJ.Nrll~I~ll1llf CCCQ!lULllicGJE UNIVERSITY If(Q)ffi ~DJ1L11§ Adelphi Unil•ersily Adnllt.'i StudenL~ On The Bd~1' 0/ irl<lll'ldual Mcnl An,/ Without Regard To Race, Color. Creed. Sex Or Age

Page 18 OONOORDIENSIS, March 4, 198! A LEAGUE PL:AYf:lFFS Beavers Phi ..>.::····. ----~~--~--~-~~-~~-~-~---~~-- • I I I I I I I I I I I GAME ROOM PUNCH A T-SHIRT PROGRAM Now ... Exciting T-Shirts with Video Game Graphics ... Now ... Exciting T-Shirts with Video Game Graphics ... Now ... Exciting T-Shirts with Video Game Graphics ... Now ... Exciting T-Shirts with Video Game Graphics ... Now ... Exciting T- Shirts with Video Game Graphics ... Now .. . Exciting T-Shirts with Video Game Graphics .. . ------~-----------------~---- 1 TURN IN THIS COUPON FOR I 2 PUNCHES I TOWARD EARNING A T-SHIRT I lONE COUPON PER PERSON! I MOHAWK. • \'·\: .. ••• • • . I MALL ·------------------------------- ' ,. \ . . . ' ' . ' ' . - ' ' ·. . - . . . . ' ~ . No Post-Season Pl,ay Continued from page 20 and sophomore J.iin Hogan were the men who received the extra playing time due to the loss of Feigelson and Rutnik. D'Orazio particularly was \thrown into the fire\ as he was the man picked to start in almost all of the remaining games. He proved himself worthy of the starting position, and at times he showed signs of brilliance. The three big men need to improve their strength and stamina next season to make themselves complete players. Coach Scanlon stated that he \was .pleased with the per· forrnance of his yoWlg players, especially the big kids.'' Congratulations The Dutchmen lose only two players to graduation this year, tri-captains John Montanile and John Jarosak. These two players have been starters for the past three years and have provided much needed maturity and leadership to the team, as well as great basketball talent. John \The Count\ Montanile has once again led the Dut- chmen in rebounding with 195 carons, over 8 per game. His 12.5 points per game average to Sports Information Director George Cuttita . and his wife, Betsy, on the birth of a baby boy named Daniel Scott. NOW OPEN ELECTRIC CITY Comics & Magazines 1704 VANVRANKEN AVE. (corner of Mason & VanVranken just 4 blocks from campus!) Featurinp -New comics--including Micronauts, Moon Knight and other Direct-Only Books -Back Issues--over 10,000 in stock -Fantasy Magazines--Eifquest, Cerebus, Heavy Metal -Used Paperbacks--3 for $1.00 -Underground Comics--A FULL LINE! PHONE: 377-1500 HOURS: 11-6:30 MON.-S~T. was third best on the team and to demonstrate his consistency, he scored in double figures in the last 18 games of the season. His effect on the team is so great that it has led more than one Union hoop observer to state, \as the Count goes, so goes the team.\ Prior to the season, John Jarosak ribed by Coach ! 'the most a Scanlon team ... J.J. shot the field points per sec,ona on the assists and ·vua ... ., Scanlon J.J. providing and defense missed. J Unlimited IJULI~IlUiil. !~~~~l 1 WB~,~ TRIVlA CONTEST Coach Scanlon and the rest of the team look forward to a hopefully successful recruiting season. They are in search this year, as in years past, for a dominating man to fill the middle. If they are successful in their hWlt, let other teams beware, for the Dutchmen would then hold the ingredients to make a great season. FINAL STANDINGS AND KEG- DJSTRIBUTION INDEPENDENTS JUDY JUNK 5 NEAT GUYS WITH OPEN FLYS DORPSALVAGE HOWlE'S MUFF DIVERS VELVET JONE'S HO SCHOOL PENTHOUSE LATE ARRIVALS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BUCKWHEATS TO ASSASSINATE OBSCENE PHONE CALLERS ZOMBIES FLYING BUFFALOES SQUEEKER AND KOOK INC. OZ'S SUBCOMMITTEE FOR NUKING PREPS TO MAKE ROOM FOR HAITIAN REFUGEES THENANKINS PINK CHAMPAGNE UNCUT MEMBERS STEPHANIE, ELIZABETH, HEATHER, KORONA F ANCLU B (1keg) 33 ( 1 keg) 33 (1 keg) 16 8 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 DORMS FOX WEST DAVIDSON RICHMOND FRATERNITIES, SOCIETIES ZBT KAPPA SIGMA SMITH STUMPERS PARODY SQUAD (3 kegs) 55 (2 kegs) 45 10 2 (2 kegs) 44 1 1 41 ,All standings are official. 1 Kegs may be picked up at the beg.inni.ng of next term; more information on this will follow. -Sports Writers Needed Spring Sports Contact Rob or Drew 1 . RU,GBY First practice First day of class, Spring Term. 4:00

r and ncy, sin son. ; so :han · to ' so iohn by rlOSt shot 1eld per the and 1lon ling !USe ~ th Jt Joe lior r a two one the Joe ling the :ual ads sts, hat .nts ood .ion o\11- : a ery ne. lin >nd. nts cal ess tve his in las ~in lut- ~ed tch las ; of a ing his ·a the lin ms .en ats I, OONOORDlENSIS, March, 4, .1982 Page 19 Intra murals Overtitne SPECIAL EVE,NT-5 WRIST WRESTLING CHAMPION .. Joe Cardino WRESTLING - CHAM.PIONS Heavyweight--JOE CARDINO Middleweight--BOB STRATTON vs. GARY LEAR (final match still to be wrest.led) Lightweight--TOO PETREE Thanks to Doug McFaddin for refereeing CURLING - PLAYOFF TEAMS WINGNUTS (5-l) FIGI (4-2) STONES (4-2) RINK RATS (2-2) CALEDONIANS <.3-0) Participate l:n lntramurals U.M.O.C. is coming! APRIL 19th • 27th By DAVE RUDEN Sports Columnist For my last column at Union, I thought I would write abollt my favorite sporting event, the NCAA Basketball Tournament. There are very few sports where as many as ten teams have a legitimate shot to emerge as champion, and college basketball is one .of them. This year should be no exception; while North Carolina, Virginia, and DePaul stand out, there are a number.of teams that could be crowned number one 'in the Superdome come the end of the month. What follows is a brief, thumb- nail preview of the tournament. North Carolina (24-2) has to be considered the tournament favorite. With a well-balanced attack led by forward James Worthy and center Sam Perkins, the Tar Heels may give coach Dean Smith his first championship. DePaul (25-1) is another team w:ith a good shot at the title. Ji'ollowing two years of getting knocked out of the regionals early, the Aguirre- less Demons are now a better team. Terry ·cummings is the best forward in the country, and Skip Dillard, Bernard Randolph and Kenny Patterson provide a strong supporting cast which should lead DePaul to a trip to New Orleans. Out west,. Oregon State (22-3) has been quietly moving to the top of the polls. Led by center Charlie Sitton, the Beavers should make themselves a known commodity shortly. Iowa is another team that has gotten little publicity. With a 20-5 overall record, the Hawkeyes have been on top of the Big Ten all year long. Paced by Kenny Arnold and Kevin Boyle, the Hawkeyes could make their second appearance in the final four in three years. Georgetown has caught on fire recently. After a slow start, the Hoyas finished the regular season with a 23-6 record. The team is peaking, and center Patrick Ewing has developed into an all-around center. If the Hoyas are not tired out after the Big East Tournament they will be tough. Kentucky (20-6) has played good ball since learning that center Sam Bowie will be red-shirted for the season. If center Melvin Turpin can provide steady play in the middle, the Wildcats will be tough. There are a number of top ranked teams that should meet defeat early on. Heading the pack is Virginia (27-2). True, th~ Cavaliers have the almighty LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS Why not take the opportunity to study in London? A wide range of subjects and courses is available in Central London for students of the social sciences. Junior year ............. Postgraduate Diplomas One-year Master's degrees ............ _Research Subjects include Accounting and Finance, Actuarial Science, Anthro- pology, Business Studies, Econometrics, Economics, Economic Histgry, Geography, Government, Industrial Relations, International History, International Relations, Law, Management Science, Operational Re- search, Philosophy, Politics, Population Studies, Social Administration, Social Work, Sociology, Social Psychology and Statistical and Mathema- tical Sciences. Application blanks from: Admissions Directorate, L.S.E., Houghton Street London WC2A 2AE, England Please state whether junior year or postgraduate. CHALLENGING ENGINEERING POSITIONS WITH PROFESSIONA~ GROWTH Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, Portsmouth, New Hampshire, has openings for: E lectri ca I Engineers Electronics Engineers Mechanical Engineers Nuclear Engineers The Shipyard's assigned miss ion is to modernize, refuel, convert and repair NUCLEAR SUBMA.R IN ES. Work involves design, development, and testing of submarine systems and equipment. Career advancetnent to journeyman level paying over $25,000 within 2112 years if hired at GS-5 and 1112 years if hired at GS-71evel. BS Engineering degree and U.S. citizenship required. Benefits include 13~26 working days paid vacatiori--9 paid hoi idays--13 working days paid sick leave,-outstanding retirement program--choice of health and life insurance programs. Portsmouth Naval Shipyard was established in 1800 and employs over 8,000 employees. The Shipyard is a leader in the life-cycle ma-intenance and moder- · nizafion of Nuclear Submarines and offers unparalleled challenge and op- portunity. Portsmouth Naval Shipyard is located in the heart of ·vacationland. All season sports and other activities are available within minutes. THE SHIPYARD RECRUITER WILL. BE ON CAMPUS ON MARCH 9, 1982 If you cannot make this interview and are interested in employment, submit your resume to: Industrial Relations Office, Code 170.5, Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, Portsmouth, NH 03801. Sampson, the player who stands head and shoulders (7'4\) above the pack. But .if his op- ponents can neutralize him the Cavs can be had. Forward Craig Robinson has had an off year, and guard Jeff Jones has• been known to be hesitant in big games. Ralph may have to stay another year. Missouri is another team that is prime for an early upset. The 23w3 Tigers have had trouble against the good teams, and center Steve Stipanovich is a mere human against the Sarnpsons and Ewings. Leave the Tigers off your final four list. Idaho (24-2) has gotten many clippings due to their record. But when the team is not feasting on the Montana States and Northern Arizonas, they are suffering from an identity crisis. A patsy schedule should lead to their downfall in the tough tour- nament. Houston is another team that has had high hopes. Despite a 20-6 record, the Cougars have had an up and down year. Rob Williams will not be enough come tourney time. Finally, attention must be given to the sleepers, those handful of teams that surprise the biggies. This year there are a number of them. Down south, Gene Bartow's Alabama- Birmingham team (22-5) has been solid all year. With one of the most underrated players in the country in Oliver Robinson, the Sun Belt Conference champions could be tough. · Memphis State (21-4), with super freshman Keith Lee, should make a name for themselves along the way. Fresno State (24-2) and Cal- Irvine (21-5) of the PCAC should make things tough for their rivals along the way. Kansas State (20-6) has one of the best coaches in Jack Hartman, and a solid player in Randy Reed. Other teams to watch for are Villanova (20-6), San Francisco (24-5), Tulsa (21-5), and Wyoming (20-6). As for a prediction, I like North Carolina. They have a well-rounded starting five, a decent bench, and a saperior coach. The Tar Heels have played different styled teams which should be to their benefit. The only thing that could hurt them is. a tough ACC Tour- nament. This has been known to happen before. Whatever happens, this year's tour- nament should provide ex- cellent play, while pr()viding exposure to some of the unknown talent in the country. TYPING SERVICE 75c per page CALL CHERYL AT 399-7614

0 0 ..t: c. 1- 01:: E 0 -a 1- 01:: Page 20 OONOORDIENSIS~ March ~, 1988 ' • •• • '< • . ' . •' •• ' ,: • • r ' • ' ' ·, . . ' . \ . . Dave Weick comes up for air Swimmers to States ByS.J. Sports Staff Union College Swimmers smashed four school records this weekend when the team traveled to the Upper New York State Cham- pionships. Three of the four records were relay records. The relay team of Chris Meyer, Chris Howd, Kyle Cotugno and Tom Maryanopolis crushed the 400 IM relay record, swimming a 3:49.2. The team of Chris Meyer, Ron Newbold, Kyle Cotugno and Tom Maryanopolis smashed the other two relay records. They swam the 800 freestyle 4 seconds faster than the previous record set in 1964 and also bested the 400 freestyle record which was set in 1969. Kyle Cotugno also broke his own 100 fly record which he set last year. · Fine individual performances were turned in by seniors Joel Meyer (50 Fr., 100 Fr., 200 Fr.) and Chris Meyer (200 Frn., 100 Bk., 200 Bk.), junior Chris Howd (100 Bk.), sophomores Steve Jacobs (100 Bk., 200 Bk.), Ron Newbold (500 Fr., 200 Fr., 100 Fr.), Kyle Cotugno (50 Fr., 100 Fly, 200 Fly), and freshmen Mike Fox (100 Fl., 200 Fl.) and Tom Maryanopolis (50 Fr., 200 Fr., 100 Fr.). Making the finals were Cotugno and C. Meyer, each qualifying twice. Coach Magee was very pleased with his team's performance. The Union women also qualified for the AlA W meet at Binghamton. Attending the meet were senior Marybeth Soltis, sophomore Sharon Pearl and freshman Sally Carey. Soltis was deminating at the meet, qualifying for finals in several events. Pearl also turned in her best performance of the season in her events, qualifying once for the finals. Spring Sports Preview By ROB NORTON Sports Editor BASEBALL Head baseball coach -Dick Sakala calls his squad ''the best group of athletes he has had in five years.'' This squad is led by returning lettermen Andy Dreher, Mike Saccocie, AI DiLibero, George Oberstadt, Fred Brown, Ed Moriarty, Joe Wood, Paul McGrath, and Tom Blackburn. The addition of Joe Clinton should also bolster the club. Coach Sakala sees the strong points of· his team as good speed and hitting, as well as excellent defense. He expects his team to do a lot of running. The major weakness at this point appears to be pitching. This problem has been corn- poWided by the loss of one of last year's standout pitchers, Glenn Kinns, to a pro contract. The team has, to this point, been practicing indoors within the confines .of the Memorial Fieldhouse which presents some limitations. The true test of the team will come when the team ventures south to take on the rookie teams of the Mets, the Cardinals and the Pirates. The south trip will provide valuable outdoor training and will be the development .ground for the inexperienced pitching staff. Best of luck to coaches Dick Sakala, Tom Collett and John Lovett and the 1982 Dut- chman baseball team. SOFTBALL The outlook for the Union softball team is a continuation of the fine play of last year. ·After losing only one starter this year, Union should repeat last year's trip to the State Tour- nament. Senior Lynn Lablaoc, who plays catcher, should provide excellent leadership. Union also sports several ex- cellent outfielders and three very good pitchers. Freshman Peggy Layton is expected to fill in admirably at shortstop, the only position vacated by graduation. Best of ·luck to the Union softball team and their new coach. LACROSSE tealll's weakness seems to be a 'lack of depth so as long as the Dutchmen can avoid injuries the outlook for the lacrosse team is_ good. Best of luck to the Laxmen. TENNIS Tennis coach Al Bagnoli is very optimistic about the up- -coming tennis season. Coach Bagnoli based his optimismon a strong performance in a pre- seas()n totirnament by his team. He also noted the host of returners including captain Tom Messina, Dwight Moore, Josh Anton. Dave Katz, Bob .Stratton, and Dave Patalita. Several pr.omising freshmen should also contribute: Collin Green and Dan Stewart. Matches against Colgate, Williams, Albany and Binghamton should be the big ones for Union. All in all, the 1982 tennis season should be very successful for the Dut- chmen. Best of luck to Coach Bagnoli and his tennis team. TRACK Basketball Wins Finale The Union lacrosse team is coming off a disappointing season but head coach Fran Meagher sees ''excellent prospects for a winning season.'' Coach Meagher points to the strength which he has at all positions. At attack are returning lettermen Sean Durham (74 points last season) and Jimmy Wright. The mid- field looks equally strong with Steve Myers, Dave Schumann, Jamie Bono and Mark Morrow returning. The midfield will be strengthened by the addition of former JV players Chris Davis, Billy Baure and Terrell Van Ingen and several strong fresh- men, Sam Murray and Tim Clorite. The defense looks more than adequate with Dana Johnston, Marty Sands, Ben Maynard, Charlie Freni and Steve Sullivan fighting for positions. Goaltending also looks strong with John Mercer and Steve Koscs expected to share time in the nets. Track coach Jim Ebbets is enthusiastic about the up- coming outdoor track season. After a reasonably successiul indoor season, coach Ebbets hopes to have a larger con- tingent of tracksters competing for Union. The new, all-purpose field seems to have generated much interest in track. The increased participation has created some organizational and coaching headaches for Ebbets. Ebbets is hoping for respectably showings in this, Union's first year of true out- door competition. He points to the meet against Hamilton and the State Meet to be held here on May 7-3 as the high points of the season. Best of luck to the Tracksters. By RICK SAPIR Sports Staff The Union College basketball team capped off their 24-game season on Wednesday night, the 24th of February, with a victory over the Engineers of RPI. This victory was the fourth in a row for the Dutclunen, tying their longest winning streak of the season. The · win, the tenth of their last fourteen games, maintained the hopes of the team for a post-season tourney berth. Unfortunately, on Monday morning when the selection committee announced the participants in the Upstate New York ECAC Tournament, Union was not among those named. The four teams selected were Albany State, Oswego, Elmira and Hamilton. The Dutchmen have faced two of the four teams selected during the regular seasoQ. They lost to the Great Danes of Albany twice, once in overtime, and they executed a startling upset over Hamilton at the Memorial Fieldhouse. There w- re no signs of bitterness by the players or the coach about being passed over, as all four teams finished with records better than Union's 13-11 slate. Union faced one of the toughest schedules among Division III teams as they were pitted against two Division I teams, three Division II teams, and a host of top notch Division III teams. They played com- Senior John Montanile playmg In one of his last games. petitively in every game, and in eight of their eleven losses, the losing margin was three points or less. Inexplicable periodic lapses by the Dutchmen were the cause of many _of the team's defeats this season. The inability to \put the game away\ was a definite factor as more than once the Dutchmen blew comfortable leads, allowing their opponents to come back and win games which should have been out of reach. Another factor which hurt the squad this year was the lack of a fifth starter who had varsity experience. One may be asking what happened to Jeff Feigelson, the 6'4\ 205 lb. junior forward'? A violation ·Of an NCAA rule, a suspension, a commm1ication gap, and prior commitments all combined to force him off the team for the season. In Coach Scanlon's words, \his loss definitely hurt us.\ The chances are that he will be back next season to add bulk and experience to the front line. If you were wondering what happened to Joe Rutnik, the other junior forward who did not finish the season, the an- swer is simple. Injuries and \discontent\ combined to make Joe feel that he would be better off concentrating his concerns in other areas. The loss of these two forwards forced Coach Scanlon to start a freslunan at the crucial tall forward position. Freshmen Ken D'Orazio, Kevin Bartlett, Continued on P,age 18 Coach Meagher sees the games against RPI, Colgate, Hartwick and Geneseo as pivotal to his team's success. He also noted that a win against a powerhouse such as Williams, Middlebury or Hobart would be especially satisfying. The • Baseba II prospects w:ork out i.n Fieldhouse.

