' . ; :;·~ ~: •. ~ ;~ . 6:45, the co- ation in This a nning the weak junior iV. II and be full lot of and notch that to he to their can't ball; ball if is lies, of · and when with a by has in 6'6\' Jim this not, it for the '- a> ro > ro u Q) c:: 10 -. >- .a 0 ->-- 0 -§_ ~ m 1.{) ....... Campus Secur.ity offker checking for student I D's needed to purchase Kinks tickets Monday. -,v· , •, January 14, 1982 Kinks Lin8s Chao·tic By BOB FOX Arts Editor with PAUL GROSSMAN Editor-in-Chief The Union College Coneext Committee began selling tickets last Monday afternoon for the January 23rd Kinks concert to be held in Proctor's '11heater here in Schenectady. Hundi:eds of anxious, often unruly fans gathered at the Car-negie Hall Box Office and at other Com· munity Bolt Office olltlets in the area to wait for ticlcet sales to commence at all of tbe box offices at precisely 1 p.m. By 4:30 p;m. there were -no tickets to be had at any location. The scene at the Proctor's box office was disorderly at best. Anxious fans, predominately areahighscvool students, m~de their p:riotiti~s. clear by ph:icing classes w~ll helow .their' quest for tickets. ~- insure safety and fairness for the people waiting overnight.\ Many people questioned the validity of a list of names. College Security and Student Activities Director, Lorraine Marra learned of the list Sun- day evening. Mrs. Marra then contacted Co ben, informing him that no list of names would be valid under any C!ircumstances. \They didn't cooperate because they didn't understand the circumstances,\ said Rich Tanenbaum, the first student in line. \I've waited in line overnight for Kinks tickets before, and I knew that people would go to these lengths to get good seats.\ Campus Center Proposed On the Union campus, students turned out in droves to purchase their tickets. The problems began when students showed up Sunday afternoon to wait in line patiently for their tickets. Concert Committee co- chairpeople Matt Co ben and Val Lenes were then .faced with a dilemma; they knew that College Security would not allow students to wait inside Cargengie overnight. They also knew that extremely cold weather was forecast for that night and were concerned with students sleeping outside in the sub-zero temperatures. The first few students in the Une approached Co ben with the idea of forming a list of names and having students checlt back periodically throughout the night in order to maintain their position on the list. \Considering the cir- When the idea of having a list was positively vetoed, the reactions of those waiting in line Sunday evening were varied. Most people there decided to go back home, prepared to return early in the morning to resume their vigil. Others, however, went home to get their sleeping bags and blankets in preparation for what promised to be a long, cold night. By NAOMI BLANK Editor-in-Chief An adhoc subcommittee of the · Student Affairs Council (SAC) is presently studying the· needs of the campus c-ommunity regarding the construction of a \campus center''. The concept is still in its \planning stage'', Acting Dean of Students Don Spring explained. The present plan is considering placing the center behind and adjacent to Carnegie Hall,. but no money has been authorized for the project. The proposal for a new dining facility has \a several year bistory,'' Spring explained, and there has been \an awareness for sorely needed dining area space.\ He continued to state that gestures such as the ex- pansi{)n of Hale House into Old Chapel were only temporary. Should a dining hall be created, the project has two alternatives. The first creat'es a facility seating 650 students in two shifts. The existence of one campus dining hall would a~d in the efficiency of food servtces. This option would return Old Chapel to its prior state, close the West College Dining Hall, and reserve Hale House for special meals. The second alternative would seat fewer people at the center, and maintain West and Hale facilities. \The campus must decide,\ Spring continued, \if it wants a sense of conununity and focal point or if we like the small school concept (of various dining faciHties).\ The momentum of student Slq)p()rt created- by this proposal will determine its outcome. Additional proposals i11clude moving the campus bookstor-e into the center thus freei11g the basement of the Nott Meinorial to suit other needs. The C!enter could become an area for central servicing-the location of many clubs and activities. It is hoped that such an addition would create a ''sense of commu:nity,\ comment.ed Spring. The campus interests and needs will be identified through a survey to evaluate student opinion. The sur'vey will also be ·handled by the Housing and Food Service subcommittee of the SAC throughout tile term. The subcommittees will also be studying the placement of the center, campus dining needs, social and· extracurricular needs, and governance of the student body. David Eppler, chairman of the Housing and Food Service subcominittee explained that the sub- committee hopes to gather the broadest range of student input as possible. Interview techniques may be used to gain direct student input. Should support for the plan become apparent, Dean Spring noted that ''the college might Leuci to Speak Here On8 p.m. Friday, January15, the Union College Speaker's Forum will present Robert Leuci, the subject of one of the most critically acclaimed movies of the past year, \Prince of the City.\ Words like \powerful \riveting and \great have been used . to describe the movie starring Treat Williams. •;a The stol!~~' is the story of f·~· J\ Robert Leuci. He Is the character whose story has been seen by millions. He was chosen to work in the Narcotics Division of the Special Investigating Unit of the New York City Police De!>al'tment. Leuci risked his life by going undercover to reveal the corruption that was prevalent in this elite law enforcement Continued on page 2 recognize it as a priority.\ Until the survey is completecl, no firm plans have been made and no money bas been allotted. cumstances, it was a good idea,\ said Coben, \we (he and Lenes) needed some way to Mobil Money Aids Old Chapel · ByDOUGLANDON Staff Reporter Following negotiati()nS with college administration last spring, the Mobil Oil Cor- -poration finalized its plans concerning a grant being awarded Union. Mobil expressed an i11terest in the physical appearance of Union's campus and in its ob- jective of finandng ~ J)roject of refurbishment. The oil firm has settled upon a figure of $1BO,OOO, designated to be usecl toward the complete renovation of Old Chapel's first floor, adjacent to Hale House. According to Mr. John R. Hauser, Vice·pllesident for Finance and Administration, the gr·ant is to be received ~n four equal a11nual installments. The first $45,000 segment was already tran- sferred in the autumll of 1981. The area to be redone will become \quasi-public space,\ which means specifically that it will be used fora combination of dining arrd academic plll'poses. The area, at least in the near future, will remain a · student dining facility. The dining hall section of . the project will hopefully be performed and finished next summe:r .. Plans include restoration of the woodwork, replastering, painting, the addition of and lighting visual projection equipment. According to Hauser, installation of new carpet and conference-seminar type furnishings will not take place until the dining facilities are removed from that building. Included in the $180,000 grant is a provision for a new stair- well to the second floor of Old Chapel and reconstruction of the existing one. Presently, the staircase does not comply with fire and safety regulations making the second floor inaccessible to most and unable to be used to its full potential. Tentative plans for the area include its use for student ac- tivities and academic functions. The relocation of the Steinmetz program is one such suggestion. Funding for this phase has not yet been made available. The Mobil grant will also pay for the renovation of the existing Security and Safety Office into a centralized college hospitality and information center. These · plans wiU materialize after a location is set. Endorsement of the entire proposal has been given by the College Planning and Priorities Committee. FRESHMAN' REPRESENTATIVE ELECTIONS Petitions for freshman class representative will be available on Friday, January 15 at the Student Activities Office from 9:00a.m. to 4:30 p.m. The completed. petitio11s are due at the Activities Office . on Monday, Januaryl8hynolater than 4:30p.m. The petitions ~ill be exhibited on Tuesday, January 19 for challenges. The election schedules are as follows: Electi()ns-Wed. 1 Jan. 20, 9:30 a.m.-4:30p.m. Runoffs-Thurs., Jan. 21 Any q11estions should be directed to the Ele?t~O~s Co~ttee under Joe Cristofaro (372-n:m or the Student Act1v1t1es Off1ce. A total of fifteen people spent that Sunday night on the sidewalk in front of Carnegie. They slept on the cement or on old mattresses, huddled together under piles of blankets supplied by ·concerned friends. Record low temperatures .were set around the state that night, with the wind chill contributing to temperatllres as low as -15 degrees. The Kinks fans remained undaunted. About 6 a.m., more people began to arrive, and when Carnegie was reopened at 7:00 Monday morning, there were already 40 people in line. One hour later, that number had doubled, and the line began to stretch downstairs to the pub. Many people who arrived later in the morning did not go downstairs to the end of the line as they should have, but instead milled around t§e gener.al area in front of the :Box Off1ce. By 1:20 p.m., mass confusion reigned as up_wards of 250 people waited in what could only loosely be termed a \line\. Many of the students who had Continued on page 2 IN SlOE: letters p .. 8-9 Movie Reviews p. lf) ,\P'e Strip ·p.; ... ll Perscnals \ p. 13 Spo.rts: Fall ---Finals p. 1 5

Page 2 OONOOBDIENBIS 1 Ja!n1Ulry 14, 1988 Kinks Kreate Konf·usion Continued from page 1 arrived early in the morning complained that there was no one controlling the crowd. One student remarked, \I waited in line since six-thirty, and when we got in the building, there were about 25 people ahead of me. Some fratemity brothers cut in line just before tickets went on sale, and then they let their friends in too! I tried to get security to help, but they just told me to get back in line.\ Val Lenes maintained that Security was not at fault for the uncontrolled crowd. \Carnegie is just toe small for that size crowd,\ the committee co- chairperson stated, \we did not farsee these problems arisi:ng, and did the best we could when faced with the situation.\ She added that ticket sales for concerts has always been a controversial issue and went on to cite other selling methods, including mail ·order. Lenes and Cohen both acknowledged having a list of people who wait in line to be a very fair way to sell tickets, but admitted that thorough advance planning is a must. Although there were no overnight campers outside of the Community Box Office outlet at Proctor's Theater, the situation was even worse than the oneatUnion. From the best information available, it appears that the first people to arrive at Proctor's showed up at approximately 3:00 a.m. Monday morning. By the time the arcade was opened, enough people had crowded into the relatively small area so that there was quicJdy little hope of a line ever forming. It was 10:()0 when the director of Proctor's, Mr. Dennis Madden, at'rived to find not a line, but, \a mob scene. I mean, there was no way for anyone to figure out who was there before anyone else.\ The crowd was uncontrollable for a while, causing limited damage to some of the glass storefmnts near the box office. There was even some damage to the box office itself. With the realization that the arcade was not big enough and a potentially dangerous situation, Mr. Madden agreed to allow Schenectady Police to escort the crowd into the theatre itself, where he correctly believed that it would be easier to control and organize the crowd. By 11:00, Madden and the Schenectady Police were not permitting anyone to enter the theatre, realizing that there w·ould not be enough tickets for the nmnber of people already in Proctor's. An attempt was made to seat the people in the order in which they arrived, but this only caused more confusion. Nearly every different section of the audience claimed that they were, in fact, the group that had arrived earliest. When it became apparent that there would be no way to tell who should get first crack at the seats, Mr. Madden and the Police began searching for other suggestions, going so .far as to ask the audience for suggestions. It seemed a gesture of goodwill, but very few people in the theater at that time were ready to admit that they weren't among the first ten people. Meanwhile, another problem arose. Word came from the box office that there were only 572 seats available .at the Proctor's box office. Police estimated the crowd at around 400, and each ofthese people believed that the limit would be 10 tickets per person. That brought up the question of setting a new limit on the number of tickets that people would be allowed to purchase. Many had already collected money from friends, anticipating that there would be no problem with the limit. If the limit was not lowered, it would mean that only about 60 out of 400 people would be able to ,purchase tickets. The problem of how those first sixty would be chosen ren1ained. The only answer at that time was a lottery, and that was the solution ultimately decided upon. Each member of the audience was then given a numbered ticket with a ticket ff a matching number was thrown into a box. The first 286 num- bers called out at random would then entitle the· person to pur- chase two tickets. Although the plan was met with some _ criticism, presumably from those who arrived earliest, most of those anxious for their tickets felt that it was the fairest way to offer the tickets given the cir- cumstances. The lottery went slowly, and interestingly enough, was completed by 1:00, the time when the tickets were to go on sale anyway. Those whose numbers were not called were escorted out of the theater, leaving the \winners\ in the theater to purchase their tickets in the order that their number was called. The crowd was noisy and often abrasive to those in charge. Schenectady police did an admirable job of controlling the crowd, being forced to cope with only a few scattered in- cidents of unruly individuals. Most disorderly in the crowd were the high school age boys in the audience. They were for the most part, quickly calmed when threatened with eviction, once again displaying their priorities-getting the tickets in their hands. There were some additional problems at the box office, n1ostly from people who stepped up to the window, claiming to Robert Leuci • • • Continued from page l group. When asked about how he feels ai:Jout himself as an in- former, Leuci states, \My in- tention was to expose a self- perpetuatng cancerous system. Because of its traditional and historic roots, this system sucked down well-motivated and honest individuals into a cesspool of corruption screaming to be exposed. I believed tbe focus would be the system. In the end, it wasn't.\ His reaction to the movie is a positive one; Leuci enjoys the limo11sines, the T.V. ap- pearances, and everything else that comes with the media exposure that he is now getting. \Tile movie has created a whole new lifestyle for me,\ says Leuci. \I've always liked excitement. I like to be the center of attention.'' Bob Leuci promises to be one of the most interesting per- sonalities to visit Union in a long time. He is a man with a have \winning'~ lottery num- bers. \The box office staff were thenforced to check the master , list, which only slowed the process. It was 2 :45 when ttie last two tickets were sold to a rnan who had just arrived at the box office. AU of the lottery winners had purchased their tickets and left,.this gentleman just stopped by hoping to find something, anything, that would get him into Proctor's the· night of the concert. That day at Proctor's, yoq had tc be lucky. DirectDr Madden was somewhat concerned with the unr-uliness of the crowd at the theater last Monday, but did not anticipate too much tr1mble the night of tlie copcert. Madden :recalled the other Union con- . cetis at Proctor's, and stated that he never had the slightest problem with any Union stadents. He said that his major concern was with the younger, non-Union crowd, but felt confident that planning and security would insure a fine Rich Tanenbaum, the first person in line who wa.ited in sub- evening. zero weather for concert tickets. Continued on Page 9 Film Committee Profits By JOEY BECKERMAN Staff Reporter I..ast term the Film Com- mittee enjoyed extraordinary success which will benefit the entire campus community in the future. The committee's Ca- chainnan, Ben Heckscher and Linda Ziman, have worked very hard to obtain first rate films for this term as well as lower ticket prices. In the fall, the Film Com- mittee's deficit was next to nDthing. A total of 3,6:J8 tickets were solei for fall term films. In . order to ' appreciate this; one m11st consider the fact that the student forum budget citetl2,000 tickets as a reasonable figure for fall term ticket sales. This feat was accomplished despite the .fact that an additional $1,200 over the committee's original budget was required in order to rent SS016 from the Arts Department at a rate of $6 an hour. This rental fee represented almost one fourth of the committee's total budget. Heckscher and Ziman pointed out that this policy is unfair because students pay for their tickets as well as a student activity fee. In effect they are paying twice for the use of SS016. Although the Arts department pays grant-in-aid students to run the projectors, these students only receive minimum wage. If the Film Committee did not have to pay f<)f the use of SS016, more money could be spent on film rentals thus improving the quality of films at Union. fascinating story to tell. Tickets will be on sale at. the Carnegie Hall box office. Prices are $2.00 with Union ID and $3.0() without Union ~rn. There are many factors which contributed to the F.i.bn Com- mittee's successful fall term. The films received greater publicity because of additional posters placed in dorms and other baildings, schedales distributed in student mailboxes and advertisements placed in Concordiensis. Higher quality fllms were obtained at lQwer prices as a .result of a new oiidering technique im- plemented this year by Heckscher- and Ziman. Films , were ordered in larger quan- tities or in \packages\ from two or three major companies. The committee has also ob- tained some free movies from the American Express Com-. pany including ''The Goodbye Girl\ and \Midnight Express\ which will be shown during spring term. Furthermore, through special arrangements with United Artists, the Film Committee has been able to obtain such recent movies as \For Your Eyes Only\ and \The French Lieutenant's Woman.\ The film schedule is adjusted to take in events such as hockey games and concerts, as is evidenced by the fact that the movie \Hair\ will not be shown on tne night of the Kinks' concert. The committee has assisted other organizations in obtaining films such as \The Way We Were\ for the Orien- tation Committee and \Hearts and Minds\ for the Political Forum. They have also co- sponsored films such as \The Turning Point\ with the Dance Club and \101 Dalmatians\ with Big Brothers-Big Sisters. Besides better films, those attending movies this term will be treated to a lower ticket price of only $1 for all films. Since 1976 no weekend movies have coSt only one dollar. The committee is also planning to show their gratitude to the campus for their support by showing \Arthur\- during Parent's Weekend and a free outdoor showing of the \Rocky Horror Picture Show\ during Camp Union. Bumps Plowed By DOUG LANDON Staff Reporter Three of the four bright yellow speedburnps on campus were destroyed by a plow over the holiday recess. As a result of the large amount of snow and the freezing temperatures which plagued .Schenectady, .a front end loader was used to assist in campus plowing. The machine, according to Mr. Jack Hill, knocked the speedburnps out of position. Hill hopes to see the bumps replaced before spring. Alterations in the safety devices will include deeper and more secure foundations under the rounded asphalt portions and also diagonal positioning. This should reduce the jolt given the driver and passengers, as the four tires will come into contact with the bump at different times. The old speedbumps were modified earlier this season so as to eliminate damage to vehicles, but the changes were limited to a reduction in the height of the bumps and repainting. Hill estimated the original co!t at-$100 per speedbump and $15 for each sign. Hill could not give an approximation of the cost of reducing the bumps, as he has not yet received the contractor's bill. Approximately $10 to $15 was spent for the repainting of each bump by campus maintenance. Tbe proposed replacements are expected to cost more than the originals, because more work is involved in making the bumps diagonal. Hill plans to obtain bids from at least two contractors, but ternns the project \not a major job.\ See Cartoon Page 9 ... -~ ~ a Ql c: I1J \\\) • >- .0 0 .... 0 .s::: c.

;ted key is the >wn tks' has :; .in The ien- arts ical co- The mce lllS\ ers. lOSe will !!ket tms. vies The g to the by ring free )Cky ring eold .fied s to cles, ~dto E' the ginal and d not E' the 1s, as , the i 11. was each ~ce. rtents than more g the ns to : two the \ ,_ (].) ~ 10 .u '(].) c:: • 10 .., >- .0 0 .... 0 ..t: c. OONCORDIENSIS, Ja-nuary -14, 198S Pages Ex-Security Chief Dies By PAUL GROSSMAN Editor-in-Chief & Combined:Sources This past week, the ·campus · £lag was at\ half mast to ·acknowledge the death oJ Jolm ? . Hannon; fonner Chief of Uaion Security. Mr. Hannon was a New York State Trooper who then joined the Schenectady Police Department where he worked :for 21 years until his retirement In 1951. Hannon went on to become a m.ember of the Union College . . Security Dept. and was ap.. pointed chief of Security in 1969. He served Union for over a decade and retired in 1975. Present Chief af Security, Cliff Wood, was a close friend of Mr. Hannon, and commented on the passing .of his associate,~ \The best compliment I can give John is: the most any person can ask, that he leave something of .,.himself behind, John did that witli his service to mankind, which will be remembered by all who kne\\ h . \ un. ·:aoard Co,nvenes By WILL LLOYD Sr. Trustee On Wednesday, January ~3, the Board of Trustees held its · winter meeting in New York City. At press time the meeting of the Board was not expected to· produce any controversy, yet several items on the agenda were of interest to students on campus. The preliminary .proposed budget for 1982-83 was scheduled to be discussed and proposed increases in tuition, room and board were also to be brought up for consideration. Furthermore, the Board w_as to be asked to approve ail increase ·in the student activity fee. This last request was generated by the Student Forum. The Board, in addition to money matters, was to elect several new members, in- cluding a chairman to 'replace Dr. Richard Day. Members are permitted to serve two con- secutive terms on the Board before being replaced. Vaccine Provided The Union College He2ltb Service will provide im- munization for rubella susceptible stu.dents and em· ploye~s. Only susceptible persons need to be immunized, Either a history of im- munization with vaccine or a antibody titer based on a blood test is positive proof. A history of the disease is suggetive but not positive proof of inununlty. Susceptible persons please ca] 6121 or stop by SiUinlan llall 7:30 a.m. - 11 p.m. daily, Sat- SliD. 11 a.m. · 5 p.m. for details of service or more information. Rubella is a mild viral disease . of short duration in cbi:ldren and adults .but in the human fetus in its first 2 months of life, congenital Rubella results in severe abnormalities which are now totally preventable. Preschool immunization programs · have reduced the incidence of childhood rubella. Since 10-15 percent of the population born before 1967 are susceptible, small but significant outbreaks persist. Concerdiensis Welcomes Reader Comments. Drop us a line or stop by. the office. I ' After all, it's your paper. .~..-street the-y ccdletl him sou.- sabyfuce. - Di . ·on New 'York\s Narcotscs . ~· 8 At _,.,_...s bircl a tcnagh cop. theyc_..,u . • OZ'i tbe wtme~ stcmcl they ecdlecl hiiD Ju.~·. Informed Sources The Levi Parsons Scholarships The following students from Fulton and Montgomery counties have been awarded the Levi Parsons Scholarship. Seniors Cynthia Beno and J ehn Sammarco, sophomores Steve }lladik and Steve Junquera and freshmen Anthony Poriteduro and Douglas Landon. The Parsons Scholarship, one of the oldest awards at the College, was established in 1887. Levi Parsons w;as the first president of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway, and Union awarded him an honorary Doctor of Laws degree in 1881. Recipients of the Levi Parsons Scholarship are reconunended by the College and reviewed by the Glover- sville Library Board. · Preference is given to residents of Gloversville and Johnstown and other areas of Fulton and Montgomery cotiDties. Marian C. Baciewicz Scholarship . Rachel Mandel of Brooklyn, a senior, has been named the first recipient of the Marian C. Baciewicz Scholarship. The Baciewicz Scholarship was recently ~established at Union by Mr. and Mrs. Frank A. Baciewicz of Watervliet, N.Y., in memory of their daughter, Marian. Ivliss Baciewicz, a 1977 Union graduate and Peace Corps volunteer, was killed in an automobile accident in June, 1980. As a member of the Peace Corps, she taught chemistry, English, and physics in Nan- dom, Ghana. The Baciewicz Scholarship will be awarded annually to a woman student in Union's senior class who has espoused as a goal the fur- thering of human un- derstanding. Charles P. Steinmetz Scholarships Senior Paul Mazur, junior Laurie Colapinto, Sophomore Robert Stelmack and freshman Timothy Alibozek have been awarded Steinmetz scholar .. ships .for 1981-1982. The Steinmetz Scholarship is funded, in part, through a gift from the General Electric Company in memory of Charles P. Steinmetz, the \electrical wizard\ of the 20th century. Steinmetz was both a General Electrical employee and a Union College professor. General Electric employees' children attending Union are eligible to be considered for the Steinmetz Scholarship. Women in Film Series Planned Women in Film, a free film series sponsored by Union College, will show the film \The Belle of Amherst\ on Wed- nesday, January 20 at 7:30p.m. in Stage Two of Carnegie Hall. All interested persons are welcome to attend. The film series, organized by the Union College Women's Commission and the Women's Network, will continue through May, with such films as \Girlfriends \The Jewish Wife,\ and \Antonia: Portrait of a Woman.\ For more in· formation, contact Catherine Clinton in the Union College History Department. · Administrative and Engineering.Systems Colloquium Today Professor Josef Schmee, Director of the Institute of Administration and Management, will speak · on \Power and Influence under Codetermination\ on Thursday, January 14. The talk, at 3:45 p.m. in Room 207 of Bailey Hall, is open to the faculty, students and the interested public. Philosophy Colloquium On Friday, January 15, Professor Kenneth Stern will hold a philosophy colloquium at 3: 30 in room 213 of the Humanities Building. Required reading is the first half .of the \First Dialogue\ in George Berkeley's Tbere Dialogues Between Hylas and Pbil()nous. Copies are available in Humanities room 212. Sociology Sessions The relationship between genetics and social behavior will be discussed in depth at a series of \All-College Sociobiology'' sessions. An organizational meeting on Friday, January 15 at 12:30 p.m. will kickoff this weekly discussion group. Potentially controversial topics such as genetics playing a major role in the determination of behavior and evolutionary biology being accepted as a factor in behavior are on the agenda. Visitors are invited to bring a lunch to the meeting which will convene in the Humanities ·Building Lounge. ~******************************************* ~ * ! ORDER YOUR 1982 ! * ' . * ~ YEARBOOK!! i * . * ; Advance sale of Yearbooks will .begin on Monday, : * * ~ January 18. On MONDAY ONLY the book will be : * * ~ available at $8 for Seniors and $11 for : ~ Underclassmen. AFTER MONDAY they will return : * * ~ to the regular price of $10 for Seniors and $13 ~ # for Underclassmen. ~ ~ / . * ********************************************: Union c;ollege Speaker's Forum Presents Bob Leuci ''PRINCE OF THE CITY\ on Friday, January 15, 1982 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel Tickets $2.00 with Union I D $3.00without Union I D The following n,umbers were printed incorrectly in the Zeta Beta Tau Telephone Directory. They should read: Security 6178 Maintenance 6181 Student Affairs 61 18 ·we regret any inconvenience this may have caused The Editors

• Page 4 OONOO:RDIENSIS, January 14, 1982 feature Discounts for Skiers Skiers looking pensive as they take advantage of this season's discount ·packages. Nearly all of New York State's 75 downhill centers offer special group rates an)i that include.s college ski clubs, sororities, fraternities or special honorary societies boWid for their alpine runs. These rates provide money- saving discounts on lift tickets, ski lessons and equipment rentals. For example, in New York's majestic Adirondacks, two private centers offer students some excellent alpine op- portunities. West Mountain in Glens Falls is announcing their Union's Career Workshops By TOM MEGERIAN Staff Writer The Union College Career Center is presently holding its winter Career W erkshops series for Union College students. The workshop program, which is directed by Betty Goodman and actually taught by Pat Matteo, Assistant Director of the Career Center, and Jane Wood, Assistant Dean of Students, is designed to help all classrnen, not just seniors. Ms. Matteo explains the purpose of the program is an attempt to convey what the Career Office is all about and to \. . . give (students) certairt information that they need to know. Rather than seeing 200 people in- dividually, we can see them all in the workshops.\ The workshops often host area professionals who give information on what exactly their field requires of them and what educational and ex- perience requirements they need to tp. achieve their present status. Some workshops host three or four of these career professionals, forming a panel where students can ask any questions they may have per- taining to the field of the panel professionals. More often, though, the workshop may have a Union College Alumni talk to the students about his or her field and the career options available. Ms. Matteo states, \we- · work with alumni whenever we can just because they're such a good resource.\ This term, alums will be par- ticipating in the Careers in Public Relations and Adver- tising workshop along with the Careers in Personnel and Careers in Human Ser-vices workshops. Ms. Matteo stresses that the workshop program, and in fact the whole Career Center itself, \doesn't just involve seniors; underclassmen, too!\ She explains that the center tries to get the student involved in its three step process. Step one is \Self-awareness.\ \Somebody needs to understand what their skills, abilities and strengths are . . • their competencies,\ says Ms. ·Matteo. Step two· is \Occupational Awareness\ which includes making the student aware ·of various \jobs and careers and the realities of these jobs,\ as Ms. Matteo puts it. Step three consists of the job search itself. Ms. Matteo points out that problems arise when many students come to the Career Center for just the third step, skipping the other two equally important ones, and adds that it makes it difficult for the student to find a meaningful job. Currently, the Career Office, under its present ad- ministration, is trying to em- phasize that underclassmen should also take advantage of its services. As Ms. Matteo puts it, \The office has a reputation for being geared toward seniors. There's a lot un- derclassmen could be doing.\ The Career Office has taken steps to change this image by offering workshops in Summer Job Search Strategies and Career Information for Underclassmen, in addition to an internship workshop where students can obtain ideas on where to look for internships in fields that they are interested in. The workshops with the largest attendance are the Resume and Interviewing workshops which had about 130 students in each last term. In response, the Career Center modified the Advanced Interviewing Techniques workshop which had traditionally involved mock interviews With Ms. Matteo and Dean Wood. This term, the workshop will have professionals from different fields doing mock interviewing, which will provide students with firsthand interview e:x:perience. The panel wqrkshops generally have fifteen to twenty-five students and other seminars are limited to five or·· six people. Despite the ,good turnout in some of the workshops, Ms. Matteo says anxiously, \I'd love to see a larger turnout in all of the various workshops.\ In addition to the Career Workshop Program, the Career Center also offers and is currently promoting its Alumni Career Observation Program. This rather enlightening op- portunity allows Union College students a chance to see first hand what various professionals do in their field. Ms. Matteo explains the program: \We write to alums and ask if they want to volunteer to host a student. I would say that the Career Observation Program iS\ one of the best programs we have to give students a chance to ex:plore careers. I wish more would take advantage of it.\ Each alumni hosts between one and five students for one day. Ms. Matteo feels that the Career Workshop- and Career Observation Program help students to decide on a career which wili be fulfilling to them. As she puts it, \it's not necessarily just finding a job, but findin~ something that's meaningful to each individual ·after college . . . with the em- phasis on meaningful.\ ' Fe~turing, ••• The Film Committee byNORMANBURNEACH Staff Writer This term, we've got fihns that should appeal to everyone, if the Film: Committee has done its job well. For those who adore the Dark Ages, we've already seen Excalibur. Not only is there a movie that's For Your Eyes Only, but action freaks will be able to see the star of the Dr. Pepper commercials get his just desserts as An American Werewolf in London. For comedy nuts, Being There is half the fun of getting there via Airplane, arriving from the Altered s'tates (thrown in because it fits), wh~re they serve up movies, among other things, differently in Kentucky Fried Movie. Culture fans will applaud The Turmng Point in the schedule that allows ballet to grace S.S. 016's Big Screen. There's even something that· fraternity brothers . should appreciate. Coming off a record fall season, Union's Fihn Com- mittee has planned another great term. Movies almost never make it to college campuses while they're still at theaters near us, but this term; · we'll be able to see The French Ueutenant's Woman. \We'r-e trying to appeal to the whole student body,\ said Co- Chairman Ben Heckscher. This fS easier quoted than -ilone. After spending many hours going over film catalogues, Co- Chairmen Heckscher and Linda Ziman give their own list to the 32-member committee. But the work does not stop there. The Co-Chairmen spend many hours planning the schedule. The movies they think will be popular are shown on weekends, to give students more chances to see them. The movies they're unsure of are scheduled for Tuesday nights this- term, instead of Wed- nesdays, because of a scheduling conflict with Professor Gado's film course, The Co-Chairmen plan movies around whatever parties and special events they know about. On the night of the Kinks con- cert, for ex:ample, no movie will be shown. Scheduling movies is. more than a 9-to-5 job, and the work sometimes requires Supermen, and is enough to cause one to fly over a cuckoo's nest. There's more I could write, but my favorite movie is about to go on. I just love those little dogs. Second Annual I LOVE NEW YORK ''January Cellege Ski Pass\ to area students. For $99, skiers can get the I LOVE NEW YORK pass which entitles them to 230 possible hours of skiing during the entire tnonth of January. That calculates to jUst 43 cents per llour and includes a total of 20 days and 16 nights of skiing - a value of $312 if pur- chased separately. Also, at New York''s \Big Three\ state-owned downhill centers - Belleayre Mountain in Highmount, Gore Mountain in North Creek and Whiteface in Wilmington -- students can receive as much as 60 .percent off the weekday and non•holida,y lift ticket price. Gore Mountain near Lake George is discounting $6 from their regular $10 non-holiday and weekday priee while Belleayre in the southern tier .is knocking $5 off its $15 weekday ·rate. Both Gore and Belleayre, with vertical' drops of 2,100 and 1,-265 feet, respectively are outfitted with the latest in snowmaking equipment and provide night skiing and ren- tals. All ski centers offering college student discounts require that skiers have available their current school ID card or proper identification. University and college ski clubs are urged to call their nearest New York downhill ski center to find out what rates may be available to their organizations. The 1981..:82 1: LOVE NEW YORK Skiing and Winter ~ports Brochure tells more about how to find out what New York ski slopes are offering student discount rates by listing the local telephene numbers of all 75 downhill centers. For a free copy write:WNOW, P.O. Box 992, Latham, N.Y. 12110. Blame It On Union/ By ERIC W. RUBEN Staff Writer I had great .hopes for my Christmas vacation. As the bus rolled into the station, I looked out for my parents. I didn't see them so I figured they were parked in the lot somewhere. I got off the bus and took my bags with me. I was alone. I was not pleased. I walked to a pay phone under the glare of a street lamp and searched my pockets for a coin. Finding a dime, I called my house. After six rings my mother finally answered. I anticipated her worried voice apologizing and explaining that some earth-shattering .problem kept her and that she would rush right over to pick me up. Instead she mumbled a few incomprehensible words and then quickly hung up. I waited in the cold night air, a gnawing pain working its way deep into my digestive system. After what seem~d to be hours, my mother pulled up. I piled my belongings into the car, climbed in and shut the door. The ride home was quiet. When we got to my house I took my things from the car and, shutting the door, walked the steps to the front door of my house. I stepped in and entered the living room. I saw my father behind the newspaper. He glanced over it, saw me, and quickly turned back to his paper. For some reason I began to think I'd been away too long. The house seemed different. As a matter of fact, there was new furniture as well as a different color of paint on the walls. I opened my mouth but I could not produce even ,the most primitive sound. I grabbed my luggage and started up the stairs. At least I could be alone for,. a while in my old room. It had been my haven before when the world was intolerable. The gold walls and brown carpet always gave me a warm _ feeling. I wanted to just put down what I was carrying as I open_ed the· door. I could not move. I stood paralyzed. while my eyes were raped by the savage sight. My r9om was no longer mine. There was a strange woman lying on a heart-shaped water bed. I saw the glow of a red lamp as its light danced in the mirrors that covered the ceiling. She turned to me gracefully and asked me if I had an appointment. That night I slept in the garage. Now, when my friends ask me how my parents can afford to send me to this school, especially with all the increases in tuition and such, I just tell them th~t my parents own a small bus-iness that's been profitable for years. After all, times are tough. See the new ''Peanuts'' . . / comic strip--p':Jgt\ 1 :1 BOOKS GIFTS CARDS -136 Jay Stree.t Downtown Schenectady--- 3•&·27n

k iE OONOORDIENBIS, JantUJ/ry 14# 198S Page 5 features ·Welcome .B.ac·k Status 1982 Style_ By PAULGIRSDANSKY Staff Wt!ter Once again, I pulled ,off of the Thruway, again approaching the city that I grudgingly call home. Once again I follo~ed the ritual that I first developed almost four years ago with my Basic Black 1966 Plymouth Belvedere with automatic transmission and no floor. Once again, ori\' this December .evening, 1 started another homecoming. After winding my way through town for a little bit, I turned the corner from State Street onto Erie Boulevard towards the General Electric factory, our very own Pr.oletarian ·Paradise . of the Great Northeast. As I rounded the gentle curve, guarded by the old White Tower Hamburger House to keep us safe from the Algonquins of yesteryear, I first s~w it. Once again, l saw the ugJ:its. Appropriately for the season, they were green and red and white as a sign· of corporate good will, which disproves the contention that it is a con· tradiction in terms. It was not unlike listening to Beethoven- first the sopranos shone their circle of green light bulbs; then they were followed .by the mellow, red, incadescent glow of the altos' inscribed letters; and finally the bottom of the electrical F .chord was filled in by the tenors and basses with the virgin white words GENERAL ELECTRIC-it was even closer to heljlven than West Virginia. · Once again, I received the necessary infusion to start life in the Electric City. -After one conquers the early cynacism, it is actually quite easy to fall in love with the city that each of us Union College students has decided to call home for the better part of four years. Our city is one rich in history, with roots that stretch back to the seventeenth cen- tury. The origin ef the name is still uncertain, although the great Iroquois scholar Robert Penney has venture a guess that · it is the ancient Mohawk term for \cold boring and celibate.\ I choose not to believe this term although it is believed to be so by many member of the student body, especially those · belonging to the male race. Whertever or however Schnectady was foW1ded, it was burned down by the friendly neighborhood Iroquois nation in 1690. That was the first sign that this was truly a place ahead of its time . . . after all. Schenectady received her retribution for her crimes long before most other cities had even thought of terrorizing and exploiting their Indian friends. Since then, Schenectady has been blessed with 'Progressive Thinking .. Living proof of my <:ase is the fact that a scant two centuries later a bunch of moguls com· prising the General Electric Company of . Lynn, Massachusetts decided to relocate their outfit and do their heavy-duty thinking_ here. Within a few years, Schenectady became the Worker's Mecca that it is today. The Company g.rew and dished out megabucks to the local institutions. Union College got a sizable portion of the money, which may have saved us from the great financial guillotine of the day. Most cosmic of all, Schenectady elected a Socialist mayor in 1916, afull year before Vladimir \Spike\ Lenin was elected mayor of one of our rival cities: Russia. Pure proof of the uniqueness and charm of our fair burgh lies in our name. Have you ever heard of Schenectady, Montana or Schenectady, Honduras? Of course not! Noted poet David Tar bay has never said, \A charming word is one with which none other rhymes.\ For the sake _of my argument howeYer, let's make believe that he did. Can you think of any other words that rhyme with Schenectady? To paraphrase Mr. Rogers: Sure, I knew you couldn't. Quo est demon- stratum, we live in a city whose charm is unmatched anywhere else. Think about it. Especially when you salute th~ GE sign when you next come back to town. Introduction By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Catalogue By THOMAS CHING For those of you who are of thin wallet, carrying only three major credit cards, a list. of possible gifts has been compiled to please and comply with your refined tastes (as in Rolls Royces). Although the least expensive item costs a mere $1000, we, the members of Status Inc., will try, in the future, to offer the ultimate in conspicuous consumption. Make your selecthms haphazardly and enjoy! For additional information we have a Toll-free number 1-()- STA TUS-INC. Apparel: An exclusive collection of personally fitted clothing made of the finest fabrics known to man by the 'finest designers known to woman. Designers include: James Galanos, Adolpho\ (designer to First Lady), Halston, Christian Dior & staff, and Givenchy. Cost: $250,000 (does not include labor, fabrics or good taste). Exclusively at Neiman-Marcus, Dallas. Automobiles: Lotus Elite made by the prestigious London firm. Features: gold and mink ARTS AND SCIENCE GRADUATES I I I I I Have you been looking for something different to do· with your libetal arts· degree? This Northeastem University course is d~igned for graduates of Arts and Sciences and other non-accounting majors ... leads to an MS in Professional Accounting in 15 months. There is a great demand for trained Certified Public Accoun- tants with a broad educational background. This North- eastern University graduate progam is a fult .. time program of 5 quarters (~5 months), that prepares you for the CPA Ex- amination and a career in public accounting. The third quarter is an internship where you are employed by a leading public accounting firm. (Such as Arthur Andersen; Alexander Grant; Coopers & Lybrand; Peat Marwlck, Price Water- house). In addition to student loans and tuitiqn scholarships, significant fir1ancial aid is provided by internship earnings, which averaged more than $4,500 for the three month intern- ship last year. No prior accounting course 'is required. Send for brochure .. or call 617-437-3244. --------------------.., Please send more infonnation about the M.S. ii1 \;J Accol!Jlting Program. Professor Joseph Golemme Graduate School of Professional Accounting Northeastern University 360 Huntin~on Avenue Boston, Mass. 021j5 I Name _____________________________ __ I Address------------------------------- 1 I City ____________________ _ . : State-·------------------- Zip _______ _ I College Class------ 1 l'.._ .. -.1JAAI I\/. ' • • : ~,_ ... :Northeastern Untve 6 rsat~. IN B STON ~---------------------~ trimmed dashboard, lynx lined Note: gold electroplating is upholstery, 19 inch Sonl! much too .crass. Trinitron, a complete bar and Photographs; A unique photo rnusic from the Blaupunkt audio session with Richard Avedon of system, and a gorgeous model Vogue and-or Francesco to accompany you on your Scavullo of Harper's Bazaar. In journeys. Optional: Mark . addition, model will be made up ~Cross' 24-k gold key cut ex- by Way Bandy aAd Suga and elusively for your Lotus. Cost: L will appear in the cover of a 100,000 at Lotus Corporations, forthcoming issue of the above London. mentioned publications. ·Cost Spirits: Case of vintage 1971 $100,000 (does not include sales Dom Perignon champagne. tax). Conde Nast, New York. Utterly 'versatile-superb with Sporting Event: Exclusive quiche, caviar or escargot. Fine seating for a party of 60 persons companion with peanut butter at the forthcoming Suprer Bowl- and jelly sandwiches. Wine San Francisco 49'ers vs. the enclosed in Waterford crystal in Ben gals. After the game, a piano-hinged mahogany case. viewers will be allowed to have Cost $40 a fifth. At Sherry Leh- a meeting of the minds and body man Wine & Spirit, New York. with any player or cheerleader. Watches: Les Must de Car- AFL-NFL Corporations, Dallas. tier, Santos watch ... 24-k gold Recreation: Texas shaped run With platinum nails on a swimming pool filled with band of sterling .silver links with either Perrier or Evian water. 19-K gold nails-impeccable! Pool features: floor inlaid with Cost $29,000. At Cartier, New senii-precious stones including . York. one or more of the following: Real Estate: Turn of the diamonds, emeralds, and century cottage on prime estate· rubies. In addition, diving on Martha's Vineyard. 37 rooms boards are walnut smartly including a his and her sauna. trimmed with platimun. Cost: Spacious rooms equipped for the combined salaries of the royal guests who pop up when Joint Chief of Staffs. VanCleef least expected. Marble fixtures. & Arpels, Beverly Hills. Note: Complete with 5 tennis courts, 2 the pool may be shaped into any heated swimming pools, his and state at no extra cost. her heliport and harbor. Pets: Man's (and the prep- Prospective buyers contact Ali pie's) best friend-the alligator. Phashima Babi & Associates, Fresh from the Florida New York. Cost: the combined Everglades. Fond of children, GNP of Brazil, Haiti and filet mignon, and mother-in- Swaziland. laws. Optional leash and muzzle .~ available from Gucci, New' Transportation: Exquisitely York. Collar with gems furnished sterling silver available from Tiffany, New electroplated Concordejet.Seats York Alligators can be ob- 150 persons. Features: Steuben tained from the following glass windows, Louis XIV sources: L.L. Bean, Maine, furniture, ample stewardess Gucci, New York., Etienne with equally ample bedrooms. Glazer, Schenectady.· No ;COJic_o~::de CofJ)., London, Paris. engraving. 464 State St. Schenectady, NY -.WE DELIVER- 374- 1888 Uni.on College Photography Club . Meeting Tonight!! 7:30 Strauss Lounge New members and beginning <tf lepho; 0 p_hotogrophers -i.'~e;, e\::\'\:: sso~.. we l·come I \' o\\~· ·~~ . c·'· Interested in Wrlting Features? HEY SENIORS! Where are your pictures for the yearbook? We need a Contact Judi at 6155 21hx31f4 B/W glossy picture of your smiling face in ·Mrs. Marra's office no later than February 1st - or else, NO PICTURE IN THE YEARBOOK!

Page 6 CONOORDIE'NSIS, January .14, 1982 • ~rt-s & Culture ~ Women l·n Film Lecture and Readinp; Michael Burkard: Poet Michael Burkard, poet, wiU give a talk and present a reading of his work on Thur- .sday, January 21, h~ the . Humanities Center at Union College. Mr. Burka~d is the author of four . collections of poetry: In a White Light, (L'Epervier Pr~ss, 1977); None, River (lronwoocl Press, 1979); Sometime in the Winter (W.D. Hoffstadt, 1979); and Ruby for Grief (Universicyr of Pittsburgh Press, 1981 ). His poems have appeared in The American Poetry Review, Poetry, Caterpillar, The Ohio Review, and many other jo11rnals, as well as in The Ardis Anthology of N~w American Poetry . Professor of English at . Salisbury State College in Salisbury, Maryland. · . Mr. Burkard will speak at 3:30 p .. m. in HU 115 and will read from his poetry at 8 p.m. in the Humanities Lounge. By DANA HENDERSON and ANNA CORTI There has been a massive movement on campuses to connect women with popular c u 1 t u r e. In d i vi du a l s, organizations, professors and their classes have become in- volved or contributed to the Women in Film FestivaL The Film Festival started. January . 6th and will continue unti:l the end of spring tenn. Movies are being shown in Stage II Car- negie at 7:30 on alternate Wednesdays. The meaning of such a varied base of inter~st has ex:dting implications. It seriously challenges the myth that women as a topic of study is a specialized field. The depart-. ments of History, Political Science, Psychology, ·English and Economics have supported individual films which suggests the universality of women's contributions to all societies at many levels. This year the Women's Network and the Women's Commission are trying to serve the interests of the entire campus community. This program therefore sup- plies a unifying theme of women in film. Film is one of the best and most entertaining ways to communicate ideas and create cultural images. Cinema ·provides a medium to illuminate little known historical figures and present ideas contrary to prevailing myths. An added benefit of focusing on women is that we get a different perspective of our culture, which alters our traditional views of humanity. Within the fihn festival women are portrayed in a variety of social backgrounds, ages and experiences. The Jewish Wife (shown April 28), for instance, deals witJl a women of wealth trapped in Germany in 1937. This fihn is being sponsored by the Hillel Soci;ety. BLAS has contributed funds for a film about Lorraine Hansberry (Feb 17), who was the youngest American and first black playwright ever to, win the New York Drama Critics Award. Another film dealing 'With a relatively unheralded poet, Emily Dickinson, is being sponsored by the English . Department. The J3elle of Amherst will be shown next in the series on January 20. Many of the films deal with women who would 'otherwise remain unknown. Significant female con· tributors to the arts and other fields are often ignored by traditional interpretations of history ... Antonia:. Portrait of a Women (May 19) is about the life of ~ gifted female conductor · at the turn of the 21)th century (sponsored by the Arts Department). My Brlllia,nt Career (Aprill3) is a vivid and remarkable story about an Australian novelist whose goal of fame is achieved when she refuses a traditional female role to publish her own novel, \My Brilliant Career\. The other films· in the series include The Other Half of the Sky: A China Memoir (Feb. 3), sponsored by the Economics, History and Political Science, classes that are now dealing with the dynamics of China. Mr. Burkard received his M.F .A from the Writers' Workshap of the University of Iowa in 1973. Since then, he has taught at St. Lawrence University and Kirkland College and has been a Writing Fellow at the Fine Arts Work Center in Provincetown. He is currently Visiting Assistant This is the second in a series of readings-sponsored by Idol' and the English Department of Union College. Other writers who will be visiting the Union campus this winter are poets, John Drury (February 9) and Liam Rector (February 25). Persona, a 1967 drama starring Liv ffilrnann, is being shown by the Psychology Department on May 5. Girlf.riends, will be presented by the Women and America course (History 111) on March 3, and f.inally Craig's Wife (March 31), is co-funded by the,English and Psychology departments. Schedules of the full Women in Film Series will be posted, so be watching. We'd like to thank all the sponsors involved, and especially Greg Jones for his poster design and dedication to the pnblidty effort of this event. The first film, Adam's Rib, was well attended and we look forward to future enthusiastic turnouts. We hope that this year's series will be the beginning of many successful projects celebrating women. . Concordy needs experienced ' - staff people Co.me to the office Tuesday nights Because your Engineering Degree can take you an~ here, you should_ know- about Harris RF Connnunications! As an engineering graduate, you have a variety of career opportunities available to you. We're Harris RF Communications ®d we believe the more you know about us, ·the better. A producer of high-technology radio commwllcations equipment and systems, Harris RF offers the supportive atmosphere of a small group and the technical resources ·of an~ industry leader. Our· involvement with mobile telephone systems, VHF/UHF mobile radios, and high performance HF long-range systems has helped to establish our solid market base of top government and industrial users :throughout the free world. · · . · When you bring your enthusiasm, knowledge and, ambition to Harris RF, you'll experience the high-visibility opportunities and fast-track growth you'd expect from an industry leader. And, our Rochester location provides an outstanding quality of life With superior culhrral, educational and recreational opportunities. If you're degreed in any of the following areas at the BS, MS or PhD level, you'll want to know more about Harris RF. Electronics Enginee$g • Mechanical Engineering • Computer Systems Engineering · . To learn all the facts about Harris RF and your ·many avenues lor personal and professional growth with us, meet with our Btepresentatives. . We will be interviewing on campus Thursday, january 21st in your Placement Office.. . . . - Contact your College Placement Office f<;>r additional information, or to schedule an appointment. We are an equal opportunity employer. I ) 0' k s 0 tl s d b ~ r I r ( I

I CONCOBD1EN818, Jan'U4ry 14, 198! .Page 7 ~rts & Culture A Look Back: The Tune·s of the 80's By ROBERTA RUBINSTEIN Arts~ditor The following is a brief overview of the music that kicked off a new decade. It is no secretthat there is a great deal of dissatisfaction with the state that rock is ,jn today. Record sales have dropped dramatically in recent years; be it because of the high list prices, lack of publicity by the media, lack of interest on our part, a general decline in musicaltalent in the 80's,. or any combination of these, is a matter of speculation. In any· case, it is unfair to crowd the tlmes of the 80's into one ••soundless\ mass and call it trash. There is no point in arguing tbat our generation has missed the climax of rock-n-roll demi- gods (with the possible ex- ception of Springsteen) such as Chuck Berry, Jerry Lee Lewis, Elvis Presley, the Beatles, Jimi .Hendrix, Jim Morrison and the list goes on. But times change. We are so busy looking back and longing for the \golden age\ of rock-n-roll, that we close our minds to new soWlds. Certainly there are some who are willing to listen to new artists, but the majority barely open their minds wide enough to allow new sounds produced by old and .familiar artists to enter into their music repertoire. The point is not to slight the success that the artists of a decade ago have had in incorporating new and old sounds-the amazing triumph of the Stones tour is blatant proof that it has been done. The point is in fact that time does not stl'lnd still. Instead of longing for the old days of rock, give the music of the. '80's a chance. The following ·is a list of albums compiled from various magazines, charts, critic's ratings, and radio publications-with the end result being a sample of newsworthy releases of 81. They are not listed in any particular order, nor are all the' artists new and unfamiliar. They are listed here only with the goal of in- Albu111s of '81 \ Worth Listening To Compiled by Roberta Rubinstein Tattoo You. Shot of Love Hi Infidelity Sandinista! Paradise Theatre Face Dances ShakeltUp Pretenders II Hard Promises Pleasanti>rea~ms Stand in the Fire Fresh Fruit in Foreign Places Rolling Stones Bob Dylan REO Speedwagon The CLash Styx The Who The Cars Pretenders Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers Ram ones Warren Zevon Kid Creole Give The People What They Want 4 and the Coconuts The Kinks Foreigner Steve Winwood Arc of a Diver Dedicatton Street Songs Freeze Frame RoundTrip Songs in the Attic Season of Glass Trust Wha'ppen Law&Order The Concert Beauty and the Beat Dangerou.s Acquaintances re-ac-tor Precious Time Ghost in the Machine East Side Story BellaDonna Dirty Deeds Done Dirt Cheap Love's Meoldies , Discipline Inner Clty Front KJngs of the WUd Frontier Juice Almost Blue Escape Artist Wild Gift Talk Talk Talk MisUken Identity Abacab ~King Ko~g Compilation 1 I Love Rock & Ron FaceValue · Pirates Gary U.S. Bonds Rick James The J. Geils Band The:Knack. Billy Joel YokoOno Elvis Costello and the Attractions The English Beat L.indsey Buckingham · Creedenc~ Clearwater Revival .The Go-Go's Marianne Faithful Nell YoungandCrazyHorse PatBenatar The Police Squeeze Stevie Nicks A C-DC The Searchers . King Crimson Bruce Cockburn Adam & The Ants Juice Newton Elvis Costello Garland Jeffries X The Psychedelic Furs Kim Carnes Genesis· Various Reggae Artists JoanJett Phil Collins Rikki Lee Jones Films of '81 Page 10 forming the Wiinformed that a fair amount of new and inft novative ·rock was a product of 81. Union Col·lege Conc~~ommittee & Budweiser p~'·present . THt~•NKS Saturday ~Q Proctor's Theatre 'Thttoo You The Rolling Stones January 23rl': Schenectady • • : ••• :· ' '. .~ ·: • ' ,' ••• •• < : ' • • ..... ~ ' '' ·', ~ }· ' ·'.. ~ • ' ', ; t • • • ' ADD TEN YEARS ftiYOUR THINKING. What we do at MITRE is as far as a decade ahead of what others con- sider the state of the art As General Systems Engineer for 0- Command Control and Com- munications- fo~ the U.S. Air Force Electronic Systems Division, it's out challenge to .look beyon:d tomorrow to the world of 5 or 10 years from rtow. To analyze and engineer one-of-a-kind systems that will be more than current well into the 1990's. Our efforts have attracted many of the most accomplished experts in their fields. Engineers responsible for remarkable advances in areas in- cluding computer systems, systems software, systems architecture, radar systems, and satellite and terrestrial transmission. Engineers you' II be working with who can advance your career a decade in technologies including fiber optics, computer security, sensor technology and voice recognition. Excellence is nurtured in every way possible at MITRE. Facilities, com- pensation and benefits to attract and keep the finest people. Full tuition reimbursement plus on-going, in-house lecture series from the unique MITRE Institute to pro11Jote your continued education. Plus exceptional project mobility and dual ladder career pathing to get you where you want to be, at your pace. If you like 10 more years wisdom - without the wrinkles - come to MITRE. Union College Interviews Tuesday, Jan. 19, 1982 MITRE will be conducting campus interviews Tuesday, Jan. 19, 1982. Contact your Placement Office to arrange an interview if you are a BS, MS, or Ph.D. candidate in: Electrical Engineering Computer Engineeri·ng Computer Science Mathematics Physics. If you are not able to interview with us on this date, send your resume to Philip H. Hicks at The MITRE Corporation, Burlington Road, Bedford, MA. 01730. U.S. Citizenship required. MITRE is an equal opportunity employer actively seeking applications under its affirmative action program. MITRE

Page B O:ONOORDIENS1S, Ja'ltua.ry 14J 1982 Editorials Letters Committee Kudos This week has seen the effects of many of the larger student committees on campus in a profound way. Hardly a human being under the age of thirty was unaware of the fact that the Kinks will be playing Ln Proctor's Theater and that tickets went on sale this past Monday .. Students were also pleasantly surprised when they received the Winter Term Film Schedule Ln their mailboxes. Notices are up all over the school announcing that Robert Leuci will be on carnpus to speak, and an exciting Winter Carnival looms in the near future. The point is that student committees are generating high quality activities that cannot help but have a significant .effect on student life. Never does a day go by when Carnegie Hall, particularly the Student Activities Office, is any less travelled than Grand Central Station (Mrs. Marra will swear to that). There is enough going on so that only studying or Old Man Winter should keep any fun-loving student from getting their quota of non-academic activities. Backs deserve patting. The Concert Committee managed, almost as an afterthought, to have the Kinks come here when they found out that the supergroup was going to be in the area. Of course, the concert itself wiU have to be a well organized affair, but simply managing to sell tickets in a fairly orderly manner is a hurdle that the Committee managed to leap with only minor difficulty. Some students seem to feel that more, if not all of the Kinks tickets should have been available to Union students exclusively, but there was no way of anticipating how students were going to react to the Kinks beforehand. The Film Committee's high quality Winter Term movie selections have pleased most every student that we have spoken to. These selections are a direct result of sound management decisions on the part of the commihee. Their decision to purchase larger blocks of movies from fewer companies has enabled them to provide higher quality movies and more recent feature films at a lower rate. In addition to the availability of these fine movies, the committee's success has enabled the admission price to be reduced! The entire campus community benefits not only intellectually, but economically as well. Winter Carnival is returning after a year's absence. Extensive preparations have been underway to create a carnival atmosphere and guarantee fun for all those who attend. All of the proceeds from ad- mission and games will benefit the Muscular Dystrophy Association. The Speaker's Forum has brought us well known speakers in the past, but few promise to be as in- teresting as Robert Leuci. He is a fascinating in- dividual who should bring interesting throughts on morality. corruption, and \the system.\ He is a good choice and promises to be a fascinating speaker. The yearbook will be taking orders soon, showing everyone that the 1982 Yearbook is not going to be a last-minute mess. The editors, to encourage purchase of the book, will be offering special sale prices on the books, another way in which we will benefit from sound planning and organization. The standards of these committees have been raised and should be maintained. With increased student support and interest, we will be able to im- prove the overall quality of that yery important aspect of life here at Union, our extra-curricular experience. Ooncordiensis has undergone a few changes. These changes, both within the organization itself, and visible alterations and additions to the actual pages, will have a definite effect upon the newspaper. Alterations began following the election of PaUl Grossman and Naomi Blank as co-Editors-in-Chief of Concordiensis for winter and spring terms 1982. Running the comic strip ''Peanuts\ each week is one of the physical additions that has already been put into effect. The new policy for the submission of personals will be executed in the next issue and future publications. It is the intention o:f Ooncordiensis to inform the campus community. This goal may be achieved through a variety of methods, and some may differ from our present ones. The Editors-in-Chief and the editorial board welcome the support, comments, and criticisms of the student body, faculty, and staff of Union College. \ _ B 1 k>tk 11 Appeal To the Editor, · \ On behalf of the Union College ''Block U'\ Society, we would like to make an appeal to all Union varsity athletes. The ''Block U\ Society is our eqaivalent of a va,rsity club. All varsity athletes are members of this society and are encouraged to attend all our meetings and functions. We are a student-run organization and are totally non-fund,ed by the college. We have formerly held an awar~ banquet in the spring and furnished a wards for each team, as well as blankets and watches for 3~ and 4~year athletes. We were able to do this by various rafflt)s, concession stan~ ailed. other assorted fUnd- raisers~ Unfortunately, these projects hav{j been succes~ul due to the hard wor~ of a very few athletes. Presently we face the possibili!Y of the extinction <lf the banquet and all awards. 'We are ap~JJlilig t.o you for your help RO\\\ Sg We Call all enjoy the banquet in the spring, and in the futute. Uni-on College athletics have improved immensely over the last couple of years, and hopefully will continue to dG so in the future. We saw an out- standing hockey p11ogram fall. as the team disbanded in mid- season, only to be rebuilt by a new coach and now it is ap• proacbing its former stature. Our men's basketball team, which was admittEdly quite dismal five years ago, has since had three winning seasons, including a trip t() the post~ season ECAC playoffs last year. We have seen the football program make a 180 dEgree turn, and as a result have produced quite an impressive · squad. Men•s soccer has been to the playoffs several times, including an ECAC cham- pionship last year. Women's sports, once non· . eldstent at Union, have risen to a pe:rforrof1~~e lev~l '·· possi~ly unmatched by any local com~ petrtnt's; Mhst; tf 'fiot' ···au; ., •. -- \MA .. ~ .... ,.,.~., ·'•li«:O\'···- 'n•\\'1t~- ... -d w'Ou.t-cn-·d \>GotJi~.:! \.U<t· < '\\\iU.«Uil\\\ · fo.1· pest-season. play at one: time or -anuther during t.he last few seas()ns. W~ al1.. .·. fti~tld$ ~ other cotl~gesl _ ... .. isitin •~- T ·an~ )I schoOis. We re-aliz~ that their ath1eteg'artf ndf tnut!h ·neuer, if · · than we ar~t. · They· do, Sincerely, \BlockU\ Pranks CaQ Kilt . An Ope11 Letter to the Campus Community: Last Saturday evening, January 9. the SecuritY: & Safety Control- Center received . a fire ,alarm from South College. . The. arriving officers fqund students . removmg a garbage can that was ablaze nutside , the .dorm. Fire e:rtinguishers were usec;l to put the fire out. Qc\lick thinking . by the students and RA~ Tim . Cool¢Y,, prevented a serious fire or:, loS$ of life. I would like to thank the students and RA .Cooley for their qni.ck action, nus type of prank is . happening an too 'frequently, several d<W.mS have been i11volved throughout the campus. Fo:rtunately ~or aU, w~ have , been able ,to: prevent serious mishap or l{)SS of life. Many times these fires have been discovered late at night or in the early 'morning ho~s. Most students are asleep, a garbage can could contain items causing toxic smoke to seep in your rooms and become a killer in a few seconds. - Ars{)n is a felony and will be prosecuted as such. There is no borseP'1ay or prank that can justify the malicious starting of a fire. . I am appealing to all students to assist us in preventing a disaster. Be your brothers' keeper, report ·au persons who wo,uld jeopardize your safety in any way. Sincerely, CliffWood Director of Security & Safety -~- ... . .Money ·~::· h ·' ... ~19; ·.f., An Open Letter to Students: ( WQ!lld lil\e to tha$ ijle· ~any students across the state who have coittacted my office to e:.s;pre$s th.eir views. on the proposed ~ts .. in ·student · finanCia1 aid. 1 can well un~ derstand students 1 - coneern after the President,s SepteQJber , 24,speecll,in tvbi~h be roqueate9 , ,an a,d,ditiOMll' · ll¢reent ,~qt in aU domestic programs. . ..... . You will be pleased tp learn tbat there were .no . a(iditwnal cuts in the two main programs which make. it possible for. stpdenf;~ . 00, ., pUl,'Sue a collega ed:u~~tuul-:~~-eU, <lr4ntl!l ,an .. Q:uarJtn,te~. &t;ude-nt l-o-an§. Ini.tially~. ... the ·· . Senate Appro_priations COJ.}lllli.ttee Oil Labor, lUlS and Education, had proposed a · ·.. milli9n cut in · the GuaJr . ed 'Stu~r1t L~>an _ .. program~ l.ctmta.e~ ~natnr Sehmittf Chairman of the -SubcQ_ . . - and infonned lJitri,thaf · d not support cttts which fundamentally affected a student's ability to attend college. The full AppropriatiQns ~ co:mmitt~e · subs.equantly dropped th~. proposed recution in Guaranteed Student Loans. In addition, whereas the Sub- committee had originally recommen(led -a $215 million funding level· for the Sttp~ plemental Educational Opportunity Grant {SEOG)~ I and several other Senators w~re successful in adding $75 mi11ion . to this vital program. Today, government sup- ported or supsidized student aid is essential to the financing of higher education. In 1979-00, for example, New York State college students receiVed an estimated $1.6 billion in student aid, of wbich at teast $1.32 · billion came from the State and Federal governmen~. In Ne:w . ~\'IO!D IN IJ - ~Id3 €on cor tJ~),l ~ bttnsts 0 ·~·~ 0 Jc~t.l L ,~. Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor Managing Editor Associate Managing Editor Features Editor if'NlcTAD\< · Paul Grossman, Naomi Blank Rachel I. Mandel Julie Isgro Diane Pavacic Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein . Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards Cindy J. Tenner D.C. Owens Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Richard A. Sher David Neiblum Joey Beckerman, Norman Birnbach, Sue Bloomberg, Dan Booth, Adam Brodsky, Thomas Ching, Mike Hi.mt, Doug Landon, Tom Megerian, Rich Mintz,. Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr; Brian Quint, Daniel Rosenfield, Eric W. Ruben, • Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors National News Editor Copy Editor Sports Editors Photo Editors Photography Consultant Cartoonist Staff Franklin Schneider, Michael Sharp, Andrew Sobel, .Susan Wayne Business Staff Jennifer Amler, Evelyn.Gurdin • Subscriptions E. Wesley lfarris, III ,Pboto.Staff, Janet Guiliano, Norm Pflaster, Robert Tang CON<JORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York. 12308; Publications. Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the . Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the ~Uege News Bureau (CNB). ! . l i .-.·l 1

Page 8 OONCORDJENSIS, January 1!,, 198$ Editorials Letters Committee Kudos This week has seen the effects of many of the larger student committees on campus in a profound way. Hardly a human being under the age of thirty was unaware of the fact that the Kinks will be playing in Proctor's Theater and that tickets went on sale this past Monday. Students were also pleasantly surprised when they received the Winter Term FilJ:n Schedule in their mailboxes. Notices are up all over the school announcing that Robert Leuci will be on campus to speak, and an exciting Winter Carnival looms in the near future. The point is that student committees are generating high quality activities that cannot help but have a significant effect on student life. Never does a day go by when Carnegie Hall, particularly the Student Activities Office, is any less travelled than Grand Central Station (Mrs. Marra will swear to that). There is enough going on so that only studying or Old Man Winter should keep any fun-loving student from getting their quota of non-academic activities. Backs deserve patting. The Concert Committee managed, almost as an afterthought, to have the Kinks come here when they found out that the supergroup was going to be in the area. Of course, the concert itself will have to be a well organized affair, but simply managing to sell tickets in a fairly orderly manner is a hurdle that the Committee managed to leap with only minor difficulty. Some students seem to feel that more, if not all of the Kinks tickets should have been available to Union students exclusively, out there was no way of anticipating how students were going to react to the Kinks beforehand. The Film Committee's high quality Winter Term movie selections have pleased most every student that we have spoken to. These selections are a direct result of sound management decisions on the part of tbe committee. Their decision to purchase larger blocks of movies from fewer companies has enabled them to provide higher quality movies and more recent feature films at a lower rate. In addition to the availability of these fine movies, the committee's sue cess has enabled the admission price to be reduced! The entire campus community benefits not only intellectually, but economically as well. Winter Carnival is returning after a year's absence. Extensive preparations have been Wlderway to create a carnival atmosphere and guarantee fun for all those who attend. All of the proceeds from ad- mission and games will benefit the Muscular Dystrophy Association. The Speaker's Forum has brought us well known speakers in the past, but few promise to be as in- teresting as Robert Leuci. He is a fascinating in- dividual who should bring interesting throughts on morality, corruption, and \the system.\ He is a good choice and promises to be a fascinating speaker. The yearbook will be taking orders soon, showing everyone that the 1982 Yearbook is not going to be a last-minute mess. The editors, to encourage purchase of the book, will be offering special sale prices on the books, another way in which we will benefit from sound planning and organization. The standards of these committees have been raised and should be maintained. With increased student support and interest, we will be able to im- prove the overall quality of that very important aspect of life here at Union, our extra-curricular experience. Concordiensis has undergone a few changes. These changes, both within the organization its.elf, and visible alterations and additions to the actual pages, will have a definite effect upon the newspaper. Alterations began following the election of Paul Grossman and Naomi Blank as co-Editors-in-Chief of Concordiensis for winter and spring terms 1982. Running the comic strip \Peanuts\ each week is one of the physical additions that has already been put into effect. The new policy for the submission of personals will be executed in the next issue and future publications. It is the intention of Ooncordiensis to inform the campus community. This goal may be achieved through a variety of methods, and some may differ from our present ones. The Editors-in-Chief and the editorial board welcome the support, comments, and criticisms of the student body, faculty, and staff of Union College. Block U Appeal To the Editor, On beha.lf of the Union College \Block U\ Society, we would like to make an appeal to all Union varsity athletes. The \Block U'' Society is our equivalent of a varsity club. All varsity athletes are members of this society and are encouraged to attend all our meetings and functions. We are a student~run organization and are totally non-funded by the college. We have formerly held an awards banquet in the spring arid furnished awards for each team. as well as blankets and watches for 3- and 4-year athletes. We were able to do this by various raffles, concession stands, and other assorted fund- raisers. Unfortunately, these projects have been succes~ul due to the hard work of a very few athletes. Presently we face the possibility of the extinction of the banqu.et and all awards. We are ap~aling to you for your help now, so we can all enjoy the banquet in the spring, and in the future. Union College athletics have improved immensely over the last couple of years, and hopefully will continue to do so in the future. We saw an out~ standing hockey program fall, as the team disbanded in mid~ season, only t<J be rebuilt by a new coach and now it is ap- proaching its former stature. Our men's basketball team, which was admittedly quite dismal fiv'e years ago, has since had three winning seasons, including a trip to the post- season ECACplayoffs last year. We have seen the football program make a 180 degree turn, and as a result have . produced quite an impressive squad. Men's soccer has been to the playoffs several times, including an ECAC cham- pionship last year. Women's sports, once non- existent at Union, have risen to a performance level possibly Letters •• meetings will.be posted or put in your mailbox:es. Sincerely, \Block U\ Pranks Can Kilt An Open Letter to the Campus Community: Last S.aturday evening, January 9, the Security & Safety Control Cel)ter received a fire -alarm from South College. The arriving officers fGund students removing .a garbage can that was ablaze outside the dorm. Fire extinguishers were used to put the fire out. Quick thinking by the students and RA, Tim Cooley. prevented a serious fire or loss of life. I would like to thank the students and RA .· Cooley for their quick action. This type of prank is. happening all too frequently~ several dorms have been involved throughout the campus. F'~rtunately for all, we have been able .to prevent serious mishap or loss of life. Many times these fires have been disc()vered late at night or in the early morning hours. Most students are asleep, a garbage can could contain items callsing toxic smoke to seep in yot1r rooms and become a killer in a few seconds. Arson is a felony and will be prosecuted as such. There is nn horsepl~y or prank that can justify the malicious starting uf a fire. I am appealing to all students to assist us in preventing a disaster. Be your brQthers' keeper, repQrt all persms wh~ would jeopardize your safety in any way. Sincerely, CliffWood Direct()r of Security & Safety -Continuing- Money Fight An Open Letter to Students: l would like to thank the many students across the state who have contacted my office to express their views on the propo:3ed cuts in student financial aid. 1 can well un- derstand students.' concern after the President's September 24 speech in which h~ requested an addition.al 12 percent cut in all domestic programs. You will be pleased t.o learn that there were no additional cuts in the two main programs which make it possible for. students to. pursue a college education--Pen Grants and Guaranteed Student Loans'. Initially, . ··· , the Senate Appropriations Committee Qn Labor, HHS and Education had proposed a $308 million cut in the Guaranteed · Student Loan program. I contacted Senator Schmitt, Chairman of the Subcommittee, and informed hun-that I could not support cuts which fundamentally affected a student's ability to attend college. The full Appropriations Committee subsequently dropped the proposed recution in Guaranteed Student Loans. In addition, whereas the Sub- committee had originally recommended a $215 million funding level for the Sup- plemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG), I and several other Senators were successful in adding $75 million to this vital program. Today, government sup- ported or subsidized student aid is essential to the financing of higher education. In 1979-30, for example, New York State college students received an estimated $1.6 billion in student aid, of which at teast $1.32 billion came from the State and Federal governments. In New unmatched by any local com- petitors. Most, if not aU, ~'!r:IDI .~\. .. women's teams have qualified -.;;;-~v for post-season play at one time /~ :;;; ~ ~~~~~~er during the last rew u.-OUCOt ~~ .... --~~,:, bitn~i~ We all have friends at other \.. ) 4 ~~ ':_\\'4 colleges, Division l and H 0 ~,. .. 0 schools. We realize that their l~L::c!. 'C'~ ~,. athletes are not much better, if ~\' any, than we are. They do, however, enjoy something we Editors-in-Chief Paul Grossman, Naomi Blank don't: SUPPORT. This is based Associate Editor Rachel I. Mandel on true school spirit. It is not . Managing Editor Julie Isgro 0 b di · th Associate Managing Editor Diane Pavacic just . 1 • 2 ' 3 ' 00 . 0 es m e Features Editor Judi Lee Chervenak bleachers at a game, but the backing of an athletic team by . Arts & Culture Editors Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein the entire student body, faculty~ Campus Page Editors Maria Manfredonia · and most importantly 1 th.e ot.her Charis Richards athletes. Mak~ it a team effort National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner · to see another team play', talk Copy Editor D.C. Owens the game up in classes and Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Norton around campus on game days. Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen . Fan $Upport can have a great . Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher .· effect on the performance of a Cartoonist David Neiblum team. Let's face it, we are no Staff Joey Beckerman, Norman Birnbach, Sue Bloomberg, UCLA; s~acuse, or Indiana; Dan Booth, Adam Brodsky, Thomas Ching, Mike Hunt, we are a very proud academic Doug Landon, Tom Megerian, Rich Mintz, Betsy Modest, institution. But we <lan raise the Peter Mohr, Brian Quint, Daniel Rosenfield, Eric W. Ruben, spirit of Union athletics to the Franklin Schneider, Michael Sharp, Andrew Sobel, Susan Wayne level of our academic spirit. . Business Staff Jennifer Amler, Evelyn Gurdin With.all this in mind, we urge Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris, III all Union at'bletes to cotn'e to our Photo Staff, Janet Guiliano, Norm Pflaster, Robert Tang next .rt.u~etill~ ttl see what yuu CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student can dtftohelp. 'I'fle meeting Will body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York be Thursday, January 14 at 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 12~3t)p.m. inthePub. It wil11ast . 388, Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the less tl\a:fi ap )lnut'; ·so. it will not Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: bt ···. ·· ·.· Wi'tlt a ttZtl class ill' , 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United lab. · sti (lmtle and bring a · States. friend •. :·N\tittes uf futrut~ CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), · · ·· . · · · ·, · ··· and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). v s: r' l< tl .s y p 1~ y

,.,· .. ' in be ly on al I of an .32 • . · din III the. OONOORDIENSIS, January :t.4, 1982 Page 9 received stu. dertt loons in Rest assund that l will e,ontinue to figh~. for . . student fmaneial aid .. · · · · · • · I wgUldA;tgaia,.lik~· .to. thank Y<O~Jon ·b.\W£ Ut.t~r~ •. ,u4,,§.pp.i. po:ft ftlr stutitmt finanq~l aid .. I look forward to bearing from you in the future .. · , Sineerely. · AlfonseO'AmatG United States Senator Tell Us To the Career Center Staff: Des· ire ·.'~ib-rory .. · , · 'DvJng tlti$-\·past ·vaeatmnt in' · conjunction. witll the New York C~ty: . Alumni .. £lub,. they arranged a Career Night (held in New York City) in which seven Union alumlii spoke about job · 'OpPorttmities} . ·jrob search strategies, and their -own- positions, eacli in a different field of wnrk. The program was extremely beneficial, tbat is, to the ten or so sttidents wb.o chose · Praises To the Editors: · Since George Paige took over as dir~ctor of cleaning services at Physical , Plant, we in the · library have boon amazed and delighted at the improvement in the care taken of the library by the housekeeping· staff. Just . to enumerate a few jobs that have shOwn improvement since Mr. Paige has taken· over are: eleanin,g uf all-night study, student·rest ro\Oms carpets and tiled floors in the publie areas, and windows• In the years that I have been at Unioo Colleg-e, these never were dC>ne te attenn. I was quite shocked. as were the others there. ·by the paltry turnout. I couldn't believe. that a program so worthwhile . was ignored by. virtually the entire sentor class, ()rat least a large portion from . the New York area. Such low attendance hurts the future of .thiS pro-gram for other Union students and hurts · the relationship the Career Center has .. carefully built with its alumni volunteen1. Of .course, now that I'm back at Union I expect to hear the usual griping about bow difficult it is for in today's Letters Editorials ..: '•)'''. forts in providing opportunities for. students to became more informed and aware of career possibilities, - student par· ticipation has dropped off corisidefably. It's time we start realizing that there are people on o11r side, such as Union alums and those at the Career Center. It isn't too late to make use Qf these res()urces, so get off yottr asses and stop complaining! . ' ' Yet to be Employed, Neil E~nstadt ~2 Priceless Obiects for· the Public -· To·the members,of the oollege community:· I was very pleased to recently of the recovery of the original 5!0PY of the letter-. nf resignation of Union's first pr~ldent, Reverend Dr. J()bn Blair Smith. However; this letter, like all other pieces of ll'J,emorabUia, at the college now rests in the· archives. With all protabltity, ·only a handful of peopte wm ever get to see this letter in person. I find this attitude to be at its best, ridiculous. as .member;S oJ the oonununity. we are · aD entitled to be exposed to the history of the college and m ucb of it is hidden m the ardlives and mentioned only from timE to time. Those responsible for collecting such items must takE one of two paths. The first would involve opening a section of aJl existing building or building a new one in which these ite~ can be exhibited to the C(lm· · second would bet() Comm~ntary: Reagan On Poland Politics By DANIEL .ROSENFIELD Perhaps, the United States is learning from past mistakes. The United States could have .taken a more severe stance against the U .S.S.H. concerning Poland. Instead, Reagan did nothing and everything, the result being a political masterpiece. Had Reagan done anything to overcommit the United States, such as .curtailing grain ship- ments, the United States would have been merely humiliated as the Russians would simply have bought grain elsewhere. This should su.rprise no one as it occurred the last time that the United States embargoes grain shipments to the U.S.S.R. Thus, the United States would have , made a lot of noise and little or no impact on the Russians. Although Reagan moved quickly and effectively, the Commentary: sanctions imposed did not do any great damage to the U.S.S.R. However, they did serve as a warning that the United States noticed and ob- jected to Soviet actions in Poland. The Russians have the initiative. The United States, not being committed to any .particular line of action, will be free to do whatever policyrnakers in the White House feel is best If the U.S.S.R. backs down, the United States can gracefully and quietly rescind any and all sanctions. lf, on the other hand. the U.S.S.R. takes actions that the United States feels require more severe measures, then the administration can implement them. - Either way, the ball is in the Soviet court. Whatever they do, the President ·Of the United States is free to act accordingly. Korean Students Repressed By LARRY NA VIASKY Amnesty International The Government of South Korea is one of the most repressive regimes in the world. Amnesty International reports that the Republic of Korea has imprisoned COW1- tryrnen for exercising their right to freedom of expression, has implemented serious irregularities in their judicial process which has severly limited a person's right to due process, and has sentenced at least 10 political prisoners to death. Currently, there are at least 545 political prisoners now believed being detained in South Korea. Of special concern to the Union College chapter of Amnesty International is the ~~ndr~ds of students being Jalled 1n Korea for expressing their political beliefs in a non· violent manner. In 1980 the Korean Government forcefully dispersed a series of peaceful student demonstrations culminating in May 1980 whe~ security .forces killed many students m Kwangju. Besides hundreds of arrests, many students were tortured or ~.e~ten~ed to death for alleged vw!at10ns of the Criminal Code and Martial Law regulations.\ . !n ~esponse to these gross lliJustlces, the A. I. Union Chapter will ·sponsor a speaker on January 26, who will discuss the plight of the Korean students. Kinks Continued from Page 2 - OKAY I OKAY! E. NOU~I-I ALREA~'r' l Why are the Kinks playing for Union College? On this same tour, they have dates with capacity crowds at places like 20,000 seat Byrne Arena at the Meadowlands and 17,000 seat Hartford Civic Center in Con- nikticut. But Proctor's Theatre 'in Schenectady, capacity 2,700? ''OriginaUy, we were planning a small concert for the Winter Carnival,\ said Matt Cohen, \and we placed a bit on the Kinks for January 12 or 19 just on the off chance.\ That bid was rejected because the tour dates had already been established. However, a date opened due to a lack of available facilities in Syracuse, and because the Kinks do enjoy playing in the Capitol District, the connection was made. ' The Kinks played to sellout crowds at the Palace Theatre in Albany twice in the past four years, and, judging by Mon- day's turnou.t for tickets, their following has grown. \Just look at these people,\ noted one ardent fan Monday afternoon, \They waited for these tickets all day and all of the night! \ ·

0 e n a p- I p- of ak III S), OONCORDIENSIS, January 14, 1982 Page 9 COlllllleqtary Letters Editorials York State alone; QV':lr ~12,000 students studying full-time received guaranteed student loans in 1979-80. Rest assured that I will continue to fight for . student financial aid. I would. again like to thank you for YOW-\ interest and sup- port for student finane~l aid. I look forward to hearing from you in the future. · , Sineerely, Alfonse D' Amato United States Senator Ten Us About It! To the Career Center Staff: Re: You wrote to the- Con .. eordiensis 11--12-81 about losing your library to thoughtless pilferers---TELL US ABOUT IT! The Schaffer Library Staff Library Praises Paige To the Editors~ Since George Paige took over as director of cleaning services at Physical Plant. we in the library have been amazed and delighted at the improvement in the care taken of the library by the housekeeping staff. Just to enumerate a few jobs that hav~ shown improvement since Mr. Paige has taken over are: cleaning of all·night study, · student rest rooms, carpets and tiled floors in the public areas, and windows. In the years that I have been at Union College, 'these jobs Mver were done properly and I am very grateful to him and t() his -housek~ing staff for making the library a· ffi{lte appealing place for scholarly pursuits. Now if we could only cvunt on the climate · control · ap· paratus ..... Sincerely yours, Jean C. Pelletiere, Director Letters.~. Absence~of Desire An Open Letter to the Class of '82: You who are about to graduate, who are absolutely panic·stricken about your uncertain future. are probably doing some very serious soul- searching and second~guessing about what ~areer to enter. Yau're frightened that after four years at Unicm, y<Ju're not prepared to enter that ominous snake pit known as the real world. A dim outlook of the job market still p~vails and things don't appear as if they will turn rosy in the near future. Over~ eome by feelings of anxiety. you think to youself, \Why can't snmeone help me deal with this crisis; why must I go it alGne?\ . The truth is that you don't have to. There are people that can helpi in fac.t, are eager to assist you. These are the people at the Career Center. During this past vaeation, in conjunction with the New York City Alumni Club, they arranged :a Career Night (held in New York City) in which seven Union alumni spoke about job opportunities, job search strategies~ and their own positions, each in a different field of work. The program was extremely beneficial~ that is, to the t(;ln or so students who chose to attend. I was quite shocked, as were the others there, by the paltry turnout. I couldn't believe that a program so w<~rthwhile was ignored by virtually the entire senior class, or at least a large portion from the New York area. Such low attendance hurts the future of . this prog1·am for other Union students and hurts the relationship the Career Center has . carefully built with its alumni volunteers. Of ,course, now that I'm back at Union I expect to hear the usual griping about how difficult it is for college graduates in today's w{)rld and how hopeless things a:re. Well, those of YQU who are guilty of crying for pity have no one to blame but yout·selves. The career Center has been castigated in the past by students, myself included, for not taking an active enough role in aiding us in our transition from college to the job market. Yet, while the Career Center has recently increased its ef~ forts in prvviding opportunities for students to become more inf()rmed and aware of eareer possibilities, student par- ticipation has dropped off considerably. It's time we start- realizing that there are people on our side, such as Union alwns and those at the Career Center. It isn't too late to make use of these resources, so get off your asses and stop complaining1 Yet to be Employed, Neil Eisenstadt '82 Priceless Obiects for the Public · To the members of the college community: I was very pleased to read recently of the recovery of the original copy of the letter of resignation t>f Union's first president, Reverend Dr. John Bhiir Smith. However, this letter, like all other pieces of memorabilia at the college now rests in the archives. With all probability, only a handful of people will ever get to see this letter in person. I fi.nd this attitude to be at its best, ridiculous. as members of the community, we are all entitled to be exposed to the history of the college and much of it is hidden in the archives and mentioned only from time to time. Those responsible for collecting such items must take one of two paths. The first would involve opening a section of an existing building or building a new one in which these items can be exhibited to the com- munity. The second would be to loan the items to museum in the area who would do the same. I sincerely hope that the objects of significance which reflect the. history of Union College during our attendance are not hidden . from future generations~ as they are now. Richard A. Benedikt Commentar.r: Rea~an On Poland Politics By DANIEL ROSENFIELD Perhaps, the United States is learning from past mistakes. The United States could have taken a more severe stance against the U.S.S.R. concerning Poland. Instead, Reagan did nothing and everything, the result being a political masterpiece. Had Reagan dOI'le anything to overcommit the United States, such as curtailing grain ship- ments, the United States would have been merely humiliated as the Russians would simply have bought grain elsewhere. This should surprise no one as it occurred the last time that the United States embargoes grain shipments to the U.S.S.R. Thus, the United States would have . made a lot of noise and little or no impact on the Russians. Although Reagan moved quickly and effectively, the Commentary: sanctions imposed did not do any great damage to the U.S.S.R. However, they did serve as a warning that the United States neticed and ob- jected to Soviet actions in Poland. The Russians have the initiative. The United States, not being committed to any particular line of action, will be free to do whatever policymakers in the White House feel is best. If the U.S.S.R. backs down, the United States can gracefully and quietly rescind any and all sanctions. If, on the other hand. the U.S.S.R. takes actions that the United States feels require more severe measures, then the administration can implement them. Either way, the ball is in the Soviet court. Whatever they do, the President of the United States is free to act accordingly. Korean Students Repressed By LARRY NAVIASKY Amnesty International The Government of South Korea is one of the most repressive regimes in the world. Amnesty International reports that the Republic of Korea has imprisoned coun- trymen for exercising their right to freedom of expression has implemented seriou~ irregularities in their judicial ~ro.cess which has severly lumted a person's right to due process, and has sentenced at least 10 political prisoners to death. Currently, there are at least 545 political prisoners now believed being detained in South Korea. Of special concern to the Union College chapter of Amnesty International is the ~~ndr~ds of students being Jailed m Korea for expressing their political beliefs in a non- violent manner. In 1980 the Korean Government forcefully dispersed a series of peaceful student demonstrations culminating in May 1980 whe~ security forces killed many students in Kwangju. Besides hundreds of arrests, many students were tortured or ~e'?-ten~ed to death for alleged vwlatwns of the Criminal Code and Martial Law regulations.\ . !n :esponse to these gross m]ustlces, the A. I. Union Chapter will sponsor a speaker on January 26, who will discuss the plight of the Korean students. Kinks Continued from Page 2 - QI(AY,OKAY! E.NOUC:>H ALRERD't'.! Why are the Kinks playing for Union College? On this same tour, they have dates with capacity crowds at places like 20,000 seat Byrne Arena at the Meadowlands and 17,000 seat Hartford Civic Center in Con- necticut. But Proctor's Theatre in Schenectady, capacity 2,700? ''Originally, we were planning a small concert for the Winter Carnival,\ said Matt Coben, \and we placed a bit on the Kinks for January 12 or 19 just on the off chance.\ That bid was rejected because the tour dates had already been established. However. a date opened due to a lack of available facilities in Syracuse, and because the Kinks do enjoy playing ir1 the Capitol District, the connection was made. The Kinks played to sellout crowds at the Palace Theatrf.' in Albany twice in the past four years, and. judging by Mon- day's turnout for tickets, their following has grown. \Just look at these people,'' noted one ardent fan Monday afternoon, \They waited for these tickets all day and all of the night!\

Page_lO OONOORDlEN818~ January 14, 198! ' s & Culture Money PorTheAsk:in!l T'h·e ·c· r•lt•l c's Choice: '81 $3,000,000,000 In Film College Scholarships and crants Let our computer match your .background and abilities with the requirements of the . various grant giving organi· zations. Processing Fee only $45.00 Guaranteed Results for complete rnformatlon marl coupon r----------------, 1 Educational Research Service I l Post Off1ce Box 292 .1 1 Clifton Pari<. N y 12065 I I Name. l 1 Aoaress. I I ... I The 5entlce vou can't Afford l------~~~~~-----~ By JONATHAN ANDREWS What better way to begin the new year than by glorifying the . past year? What better way to begin the new year than by revenge on the past year? Ah, touche! To be a member of this critic's Top 10, a film must have superb acting, a demanding plot, and that little something extra ii1 production or direction to make the film break through its own potentialities. Heretofore, the Top 10 of 1981: 1. Reds 2. Raiders of the Lost Ark 3. Arthru • 4. Cutter's Way 5. Oblornov 6. Outland 7. La Cage aux Folles II 8. Superman II 9. I Sent A Letter to my Love 10. Ghost Story ..- And then there are the Bottom 10 of 1981 - the films truly deserving to be dissolved into - the chemicals from whence they came. Number one is just the worst; Nwnber 10 is merely pitiful: 1. Neighbors 2. Taps 3. Endless Love 4. Polyester 5. Escape from New York 6. American Pop 7. Char lie Chan and the Curse of the Dragon Queen 8. Excalibur 9. Time Bandits 10. Buddy Buddy And ::YOU, too, can take the critic's way out. The 10 most interesting films of 1981, where the actingjs good, the plots are stimula.ting, but the finished product just can't quite crack the Top 10. Therefore, for your distinguished perusal, I present: 1. My Dinner with Andre 2. Stevie 3. Sc~nners 4. Moscow Does Not Believe in Tears 5. The Looney Looney Looney Bugs Bunny Movie 6. Sh2rky's Machine 7. F()rt Apache - The Bronx 8. Lrnage Before My Eyes (Documentary) 9. City of Women 10. The Last Metro (French 1980, E:nglish 1981) Not to let the major studios get away with the sheer filth they produced in 1981, we have invented the 10 most disap- pointhlg films of last year. These are big budget, big name films, -where either the plot falls down, the actors fall down, or the little tricks just don't work. May f()U rest in peace: 1. Heaven's Gate 2. Ragtime 3. The Postman Always Rings Twice 4. Clleech and Chong's Nice Dreruns 5. 'rhe French Lieutenant's Woman 6. Momtnie Dearest 7. Only When I Laugh 8. On Golden-Pond 9. TIE -Four Friends; Four Seasons; For Your EYES Only 10. A Union of People (Documentary or religious · spoof?) If anything ·characterized 1981, it was another year that cinema pulled, out all of its tricks. Raiders and Superman II were, of course, among the best of the lost. But recently, another film was released that dares you to mock it, because it knows you can't: Ghost Story. Nothing that is' essential to a ghost story is missing. We have a small New England town, a secret society, a beautiful gir 1 who speaks demonic and sexually alluring sentences in the mandatory English lilt, and, of course, central to any good ghost story, a winter. We have flashbaks, skulls and bones, Rolls-Royces, and old houses. Ghost Story works on con- vention, and produces invention -director John Irvin keeps the film compelling, and most importantly of all, moving. Golors are used sparingly; there is a photographic clashing of black and white at every tenuous intersection. Ghost Story is an enjoyable frustration; when you expect a climactic moment, Irvin .pulls out, intending rather to make the whole the SlUll of the parts, never looking in the back of the book for answers. The summit is well worth waiting for. The audience never says \Come on,\ but ratber prefers the heightening of sensation. But after all, it is a ghost story. And I don't mind saying, without the per:formances of Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., Melvyn Doublas, John Houseman, and this critic's hero, Fred Astaire, the film just could not have worked. Asta ire, esepcially, plays a most important role. It is almost impossible to believe that the man who had the .for- tWle to dance with Ginger Rogers could be at all involved in foul play. But his convincing acting takes a delicate intrigue and hardens it to the point of validity. If it could happen to Fred Astaire, I suppose it could happen to you. Honorable mention to the ghostly Alice Krige (Kree-juh). Once one gets their eyes off her perhaps too predomina.tnly displayed cleavage (I mean, this is a ghost story, n'est-ce pas?), one must rivet on her beautiful but demanding character. This is not a part for Farrah Faw~ett Majors. Alice Krige makes you a little more cognizant as to the whys and wherefores of a crime of passion. Ultimately, one thing is clear: Ghost Story is not a daydream scenario, but a night-time extravaganza. s I (Cl puse~ on a form pin-u full c cam I both An cam) pr0fi craz• the seve: not E buy one reso cale1 To majc cred he c ASU Heat cale wert \I was one Rea nev• Chri witt rna~ Tha ide~ mei H pict mal a • IDOl wer qui• we1 pro por s the car ide A car ca· ba1 stu the ~ sec cla dr• ! sel COl Ca He ' th• \n ha 13 gr go Pt st VE s~ C( r ( t t

I .s, 1e Lit 1e 1e 1e 1St g, of fil ld ·e, ve y, It ve )f- er ed ng ue of to lld 1le ce ~ts :oo ed JSt 1St mt is ett 'OU :he ne ne lOt a ~* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * ~* * * * * * * * * *' * * * * * * * lc** CONOORDIENSIS~ January 14, 1982 Page 11 Student Pin-ups Ring In· New Year (CPS )-A number of cam- puses are marking the new year on a new, somewhat-libidinous form of entrepreneurial spirit: pin-up style calendars featuring fuU color photos of scantily-clad campus beauties, available in both male and female versions. Ambitious students at various campuses are making a nifty profit ·from the new calendar craze, with sales running into the thousands of dollars for several of the publications. But not everyone is rushing out to buy the timely novelties, and one college has even issued a resolution condemning the calendars as \sexist.\ Todd Headlee, a business major at Arizona State, takes credit for starting the fad when he debuted his \1981 Men of ASU\ calendar last January. Headlee says he sold over 3,000. calendars the first week they were released. \For 21 years at ASU there was a girls' calendar put out by one of the fraternities,\ Headlee recalls. \But it was never really marketed until last Christmas when they came out with the slogan 'Girls of ASU make great Christmas gifts.' That's when. I came up with the idea of coming out with a men's calendar.\ Headlee's 1981 calendar used pictures of \really attractive:• male students at ASU, featuring a different model for each month of the year. \But they were all fully clothed,'' Headlee quickly adds, noting the photos were \done tastefully and professionally, in no way pornographic.'' Since the ASU calendar hit the bookstores, dozens of other campuses have picked up the idea. At Michigan State, students can choose \The Men of MSU Calendar,\ which .features bare-chested, \clean-cut\ male students in a variety of poses, or the newly released \Women of MSU,\ which shows a \cross section\ of attractive women clad in swimsuits and low-cut dresses. Marty Karabees, an MSU senior in industrial design, · concocted the \Men of MSU Calendar\ after seeing Headlee's ASU calendar. \The calendar is a product of the eighties,\ Karabees says, \not something that could have happened five years ago.\ The 13 students pictured are \a great group of , guys, not just good looking, but people too.'.' Soon after Karabees published his calendar, another student brought out a female version. Both MSU calendars are reported to have sales in the thousands. University officials say there have been few complaints about them. · sponsored the resolution. • 'I would hope that in a college campus situation, people could £ind a variety of interesting things to view besides the beautiful people.\ Faculty · members are. similarly critical. \The women are· · seen as sex objects,\ contends Dr. Jean Adams, economics professor and head. of the University Committee on Women. She says the calendar doesn't represent ISU women, calling it \sexist.\ \Sexism is a relative term,'' .resp()nds calendar publisher Tabach. \I don't think we misrepresented women at ISU. We were looking for women that would photograph well, and one of the criteria for calendar su:bj ects is physical at- tractiveness.\ Tabach claims he tried to get a ''cross section\ of women to featnre, but admits \the calendar is promoting women and their beauty.\ He's now thinking of publishing a male version. \I don't create the demand. I just react to it.\ Calendar magnate Headlee, for <>ne, is reacting with two new ACROSS t .Opening 4 Electric cat- fish SReckless 12 Everyone 3 Folds 4 Knocks 5 Ventilate 6 Worships 7 Hinder a Falls back 9 Perform 13 Assistant 14Parrot 15 Bishopric 16Guarded 1BCures _ 10 Pronoun 11 Scuttle 20 Nerve net- work , 21 Tellurium symbol 22 Pronoun 23 College' head 27 Pronoun 29 Footllke part 30Piague 3\1 Exists 32Maul 33 Possesses 34 Pronoun 35 Entreaties 37 Army bed 32Marry 3!1 Dispatched 4() Ship channel 4 1 Scale note 4~ English streetcar 4-4 Fees ~7 Banners S t Land parcel 5-2 Indigent 53 Silkworm 54 Number 55 Solar disk 56 German dis- trict 57 Damp. DOWN _,. 1SIIt 2 Toward shel- ter 17 Latin con- junction 19 French article; 22 Cut 24 Diphthong 25 1975 Wim- bledon champ 26 Want 27 Joints 28 Key 29 Dance step 30 Make lace 32 Model 33 Torrid 36 Printer's calendars for 1982, one male and one female. Retailing at $4:95·, the calendars are being sold nationally by B. Dalton Bookstores and Walden Bookstores,. in addition to local Tempe stores. Headlee has already sold over 5,000 1982 \Women\ calendars, but the \Men of ASU'' remains his bestseller. He's already sold 20,000 of them. \I think the men's calendar is selling because women haven't really been exposed to these type of things before,\ Headlee speculates. \All the pictures are tasteful and professio.nal.\ But the calendars may not lead to financial success on all campuses. \I'd be surprised if one showed up here,\ says Dean Vettrus, general manager of the student union at the University of Idaho. There was an uproar in Moscow last year when the student yearbook came out featuring three photos of nude students. \It took a year to bl9W over,\ Vettrus says. \This is a very straight, conservative campus.'' answer on page 10 CROSS WORD PUZZLE FROM COLLEGE PRESS SERVICE measure 37 Box or can- did 38 Tree · 40 Contests 41 Until 43 Sun god 44 Despot 45 Solitary 46 Let It stand 47 Resort 48 Small child 49 Fish-eggs 50 Inlet The Campus Store -Presents: .Recent Svrvey: Most Meds· Cheat CHICAGO,.._ IL(CPS)-Most medical school students are cheats, according to a new survey by a University of Chicag.o Medical School professor. The study indicates a majority of future MDs engage in occasional forms of cheating while in school. The study, conducted by psychiatry professor Frederick Sierles among students at the Chicago Medical School and Loyola of Chicago's Stritch Schoolof Medicine found that 58 · percent of stude.nts at the two schoGls had cheated at one time or anoth.er du.ring their time in med scb.ool. In addition, 88 percent of all med students admitted to having cheated as umlergrads as well. On the other hand, <>nly two percent confessed to habitual cheating during their med school tenure. according to Sierles. The survey also indicated students who cheated during their first two years in medical school were likely to cheat during their subsequent two years <>f clinical training on hGspital wards -- usually through inadequate or missed examinations of individual patients. The study conclQdes that those who cheat are in- clined to take \a cynical at- titude toward cheating\ as a means of getting ahead. \I don't think things are that bad,'' counters Fredericka Oakley, coordinator of medical education research at the · University of California School of Medicine at Davis, and a friend of Sierles. \In my opinion~ 58 percent seems a very high number. I don't doubt (Sierles') statistics, but the study involved only 428 students at two schools, and that's not a very high number.\ Oaltley feels Sierles used too broad a range to define \cheating'' in his study. \He included everything that cou:ld ~ossibly be construed as dishonesty, such as a student's including an article in a bibli()graphy that he or she \' hadn't actually read. If one uses that ldnd of standard, one's inevitably going ta get a very high percentage.\ ''I'd say that cheating on a trivial level does go on a lot at medical schools,\ Oakley concedes, \but we don't run into alot.of it because it's something we usually can't detect. Yet it's very rar-e that students at Davis do it habitually, and we almost always find.out about those who do.\ Serious cheaters are often apprehended with the help of other students, Oakl~Y says. \Students are always told not to rat ()ri their peers, but in cases of serious cheating, many students do let us know what's been going on.\ D[)es the evidence of verified cheating mean many patients in America are placing their lives in the hands of less-than- competent doctors? Highly doubtful, says Oakley. \.All med students havE! to take two nationwide exams before a board of medical examiners, the first after two years of basis science, and the second after two years of clinical ex- perience. About 20 percent normally fail the first time.\ \The exams are virtually che!'lt·proof,\ she insists. \I could probably cheat on them to smrte degree, but a medical stutlent' ce1tainly can't.\ Greeks Go Dry (CH)~Instead of drinking each other under the table, Greeks have been clearing drinks off the table at the University of Nebraska- Uncoln. The occasion is the third annual \Week on the Wagon,\ during which Alpha Tau Omega fraternity brothers stop drinking for an entire week. . \We want to help demon- strate to students that there are alternatives to drinking, and yo11 don't have to go to the bars to have fun,\ said organizer Torn Hupp. \It's a time to re- evaluate your own drinking habits.\·. The- idea began tl:lree years ago, in response to the bonfires and destruction left in the wake of clrunken revelry, associated with the Nebraska-Oklahoma football game. \The campus was getting a bad name by the COIIllllunity,\ Hupp says. \They pt·obably thought that all·we did was drink and run wild like that.\ To show that Greeks are more than drinkers, the ATOs initiated Week on the Wagon, joined this year by two sororities. That brings the total mmber ofparticipants to about 2!>0 to 300, Hupp estimates. \I would like to see this go cam- puswide among all Greeks soon,\ he adds. ·meanwhile, the spirit is being spread through a Saturday aight \Dry Dance,\ open to the public. But the idea caused complaint · at Iowa State. \The Women of Iowa State 1982 Calendar,\ released this fall by Des Moines businessman Barney Tabach, has been a center of con- troversy. Members of the ISU faculty and the Government of the · Student Body ( GSB) have denounced the calendar as PEANUTS@ by Charles M. Schulz , s t e r e o t y p c i a 1 .a n d unrepresentative. The GSB recently passed a resolution asserting ''the calendar reinforceS\ the fallacy that women are objects of en- tertainment\ and contributes to ''the perpetuation of this stereotype.\ \Some of the women's groups on campus were disgusted by the calendar,\ says GSB Vice President T. J. Hentges, who co- I LOVE DUNKING DOU6HNLJT5! ' YOU KNOW HOW A BASKET6ALL PLAYER EATS A DOUGHNUT? .WHY DO 1 DO Tl-\INGS LIKE THAT? . .

Page 12 OONOORDIENSIS, January 14, 1.981 • Ices . ~· \' . \ General Not·tices Robbins' Tenurability Being Considered An ad hoc committee has been established to determine the tenurability of Daniel Robbin.s, May· I. Baker Professor of the Arts and chai·rman of the Arts Depart- ment. Committee members are William M. Murphy, Josef Sch- mee, Charles Steckler, and Raymond Rappaport, Jr., chairman. Members of the campus commllility are invited to submit pertinent in- formation, in writing, to Professor Rappaport in Science and Engineering S204. All communications are con· fidential. \ Oq Tile Gr~ekfro11t Delta Upsilon Party Delta Upsilon will be having its first annual \A Touch of Class\ party Friday January 15 at 10:00. There will be beer, punch, and wine. Union College Faculty Colloquium presents Catherine Clintan, Assistant Professor of History, who will present a Colloquium enUtled, \The Sexual Dynamics of Slavery\. This will be on Tuesday, January 19, at 4:30p.m. in'room SS016. Coffee & tea at 4:00p.m. All are welcome to attend. Union College Department of Philosophy is pleased to an· nounce that Dr. Kenneth Stern, Associate Professor of Philosophy at SUNY-Albany will open the Winter term Philosophy Colloquium with a French Group All those interested in speaking French are invited to come to tl)e French table at the Pub every Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. Would you like to see Frenct: films, speak French and create a French ambiance at Union? If you are interested in forming a French club please contact someone in the French Department at 6212; 6213 or paper entitled \The Tree in the Forest\ on Friday, January 15, 1982 at 3:30 p.m. in Humanities 215. ------~--------- Earn free travel and extra money as a representative for Collegiate Travel-Call John collect 617-383;.0960 (1().;5) or 212- 307-5366 (6·11 p.m.}. The Department of Modern· Languages and Literatures is now conducting the Third Year Review of Professor Helen McDermott. Members of the campus community familiar with her work are invited to send their written comments to 6002. Women's Network Elections for Women's Network officers wHI be held next Tuesday January 19 at 7:00 in the Women's Network Room 2nd floor Carnegie. Union Views There will be a Union Views meeting tonight at 9:00p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Some quality writers, artists, photographers, BLOODMOBILE The Bloodmobile will be arriving on January 27, 28, 29. Blood donations will be taken in Strauss lounge from 1 J-5 p.m. Pleas~ give! ******************************************** * . * i Dutch I * * * ~ I Hollow Pub 1 * * * * * * # Appeari~g Next Tuesday Night 10-1 : * * * * : Mark Mason i * * * . * ~ Also ... Tuesday, J\'anuary 26, 9-1 : * * ~ introducing : * * i Colby Sno : * * i Come in and Check Out i * * * ' * i Our Drink SpeCials . • . ! :*****************************************:' ' Professor Anton Warde, Department Chair, or to either of the other two members of the review committee, Professors HeieR OueUette and WUliam · Thomas, in the Humanities Center. Dr. Ruth Schwartz Cowan will present a public lecture entitled· ''From Virginia Dare to Virginia Slims: Another View,\ on Thursday January 21 at 8:00 p.m. in SS 016. Dr. Cowan's talk will be a part of her visit to the campus undder the Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Program. reearchers needed. For more information contact Mark-6676 or Ira 393-9655. Yearbook There will be a yearbook . meeting tonight at 7:00 p.m. in the Garnet room, 4th ·floor of Carnegie. We will be doing layout work so please bring a pencil. All people interested in working on the yearbook are welcome to attend. CALCULATOR for sale! If interested, please call Frank Bogedain at 457-7498. Placement Notice SENIORS: Please pick up your Winter Recruiting Schedules in the Placement Office. SENIORS: Please let us know about your job offers. For information concerning changes in.recruiting schedUle· Winter 1982, please contact the Placement Office. Personals· On Page Thirteen •.. tile Nlation.rhi · Presented by _ U.nion College Film Committee Friday; January 15 - Sunday, January 17 1, 9, and 11 pm SS 016 Union College Film Committee Presents 101 Dalmatians Tues., Jari. 19-7,9, & 11 p.m. 55016 All tickets for Film Committee Movies MUST be purchased at the Ticket Office in Carnegie Hall. No cash will be accepted at the door. . To avoid lines, plan ahead and purchase your tickets in advance. The ticket\ office is open for sales from 1 p.m, until 8 p.m. daily except on nights.{)f movies when it will remain open unti I 11 p.m. - b ' \ l ,, ... . I Tr yo fel wt ph . co inl Yt co M WI wl Gl le,

Page 12 CONOORDIENSIS, JanWlr'JI 14, 1988 • Ices . 'L . . -!-,. ~ .. General Notti·ces Robbins' Tenllrabiiity Being Considered An ad hoc committee has been established to determine the tenurability of Daniel Robbins, May · I. Baker Professor of the Arts and chairman of the Arts Depart- ment. Committee members are William M. Murphy, Josef Sch- mee, Charles Steckler, and Raymond Rappaport, Jr., chairman. Members of the campus community are invited to submit pertinent in- formation, in writing, to Professor Rappaport in Science and Engineering S204. All communications ar~ con- fidential. \ Oq T~e Greekfrc11t Delta Upsilon Party Delta Upsilon will l>e having its first annual \A 'Touch of Class\ party Friday January 15 at 10:00. There will be beer, punch, and wine. Union College F acuity Colloquium presents Catherine Clinton, Assistant Professor of History, who will present a Colloquium entitled, \The Sexual Dynamics of Slavery\. This will be on Tuesday, January 19, at 4:30p.m. in room SS016. Coffee & tea at 4:00p.m . All are welcome to attend. Union College Department of Philosophy is pleased to an- nounce that Dr. Kenneth Stern, Associate Professor of Philosophy at SUNY-Albany will open the Winter term Philosophy Colloquium with a French Group All those interested in speaking French are invited to come to the French table at the Pub every Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. Would you like to see Frencl! films, speak French and create a French ambiance at Union? If you are interested in forming a French club please contact someone in the French Department at 6212; 6213 or paper entitled \The Tree in the Forest\ on Friday, January 15, 1982 at 3:30p.m. in Hwnanities 215. ------------------ Earn free travel and extra money as a representative for Collegiate Travel-Can John collect 617-:363-0960 (10-5) or 212- 307~5366 (6-11 p.m.). The Department of Modern· Languages and Literatures is now comlucting the Third Year Review of Professor Helen McDermott. Members of the campus community familiar with her work are invited to send their written comments to 6002. Women's Network Elections for Women's Network officers will be held next Tuesday January 19 at 7:00 in the Women's Network Room 2nd floor Carnegie. Union Views There will be a Union Views meeting tonight at 9:00 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Some quality writers, artists, photographers, • • 0 0 ' ~ 0 ~ 0 0 0 0 > 0 • • H ' 0 0 ,. . . ~ . BLOODMOBILE The Bloodmobile will be arriving on January 27, 28, 29. Blood donations will be taken in Strauss Lounge from J J-5 p.m. Please give! • : ,' • ' • ' • ' • • ' I ' ' ' ' ',_ •' i : • ;' • • /: • • ·-· ******************************************** * * i I>utch i * * * ~ i Hollow Pub i * * * * * * * * * Appearing Next Tuesday Night 10-1 * * * * * ! Mark Mason ! * * * * ~ Also ... Tuesday, January 26, 9-1 # * * ~ introducing : * * i Colby Sno ~ * * * * i Come in and Check Out i * * * l * ! Our Drink Specia s . . • ! :*****************************************:' Professor Anton Wa,rde, Department Chair, or to either of the other two members of the review committee, Professers Helen Ouellette and William Thomas, in the Humanities Center . Dr. Ruth Schwartz Cowan will present a public lecture entitled \FroiO Virginia Dare to Virginia Slims: Another View,\ on Thursday January 21 at 8:00 p.m. in SS 016. Dr. Cowan's talk will be a part of her visit to the ca:rnpus undder the Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Program. reearchers needed. For nore information contact Mark-6676 or Ira 393-9655. Yearbook There will be a yearbook meeting tonight at 7:00 p.m. in the Garnet room, 4th ·noor of · Carnegie. We will be doing . layout work so please bring a pencil. All people interested in working on the yearbook are welcome to attend. CALCULATOR for sale! If interested, please caU Frank Bogedain at 457-7498. Placement Notice SENIORS: Please pick up your Winter Recruiting Schedules in the Placement Office. SENIORS: Please let us know about yotl.r job offers. For information eoacerning changes in recruiting schedule- Winter 1982, please contact the Placement Office. Personols On Page Thirteen ... t~-!!!!!L~_h!~~tl!!!~! Presented by . Union College Film Committee Friday, January 15 - Sunday, January 17 1, 9, and 11 pm SS 016 Union College Film Committee Presents 101 Dalmations Tues., Jan. 19-7, 9, & 11 p.m. 55016 All tickets for Film Committee Movies MUST be purchased at the Ticket Office in Carnegie Hall. No cash will be accepted at the door. To avoid lines, plan ahead and purchase your tickets in advance. The ticket office is open for sales from 1 p.m. until B p.m. daily except on nights<E)f movies when it will remain open untilll p.m. - . ~ . ' b • Si Ple wile A Tra yot feU whc s pia: con in£( E s Ym !I cor Ma WO' s wh Gl< lea

\ . ~! If 'rank ~k up 1iting ~ment know ~rning edu1e· ct the I , l7 1ST gie our for on Ill OONOORDIEN818J Ja,nuary 11;, 198S Page 18 > ' '\ '~ ~ 0 ~ ~ •• ~,- ' ••• :; .;~· ·t~~:! . -.....\' ~,... :;..0 ~u~r\,e...-..,.:;;J ::f>', .. 0 ;~ •• -··~· · 'Dove-JHiil)py MlniversaryHl · Paul· Even though thing:s __________ ,..a years 3 months never felt so ··have ~anged, it stUl seems as good&Dovey though whither thoa goest . . . Sigma. Delta .Tau Sister~ and your \exu . Pledges......Get pSyched for .~ PSK--H~ppy Ruslan New ..,._,.--.------- wild term! · Years. DT :and L Dear Mom: Thanks. A challenge roa. ~us Pledge D.C.~ Yoll made ChriStmas Trainer: cups in the Skellar at _.break a lot- nicer. D and L . your convenience. From a .fellow V.P. at Sl)T· {we'll .see ro Wiff!e Waffle--! Love whots still standfrlg) You. SDT sisters and Pledges: Our Little 13unny- Your cute right piano is coming, our p~o 1s down to :f()llr :moose. coming. Stay tuned for ll\Ore info. Mike F -:Happy Birthday a little late--Y tl'flr side kick Happy lllth Little Caitalin! Say Mum, do check twice-- Yor romay.tes Mike Bossy fans.Iook out here comes Ron . Dnguay l}n tl1e Madison Square Garden net* work ' . San Antonio and Tenafly-Sc what · did you have for lunch'? GloW'in the. dark (1 think w~(ll leave it at that, eh'l) . Trouble: Do yon still love me even though I'm not In a posi~n of . p~>wer? • Dear Rail: One of these days 1 am going .to oome up behind you, and y~'U'll never: know wbat hit you. All you'll know is that it was a lot <Jof fun. Dear lVIa'l'go! Welcome back. It is real nice having you around. REM Bernstein~ Where are_ you? I never see you anymore. Speak to me! Lov~ 1 Rachel Chuck: J ha~en't seen you since last term. Don't you ever come out? If you s1:1e me, please stop and say hello. RIM Marlt K.~Thanks for the pinball game. Racb.el Dear ~Y Jay: We have pity on your bones-yoa can leave the paper 001 'the first floor. Dear D~ve W.-Dld yo11 ask me if I wanted tc work as an editor for Union Views? I'll consider it, but only if Mark will be my assistant. Rachel. Who are the Kinks? ' To our Gre.at Tri*Delta Tuesday, January 19 Advanced Interviewing Techniques Workshop 'i': oo~9: ()0 p.m. at the Career Center Whatdo interviewers look for in prospective candidates? Gain first-hand knowledge from, and ask questions of, three area Profes&ioaals. This session will also provide an opportunity to improve interviewing techniques thr~ugh Practice with the professionals\ . . Note: Please sign up for all wor~h<!PS 10 adv~nce at the Career C~nter. Part~clp~ts. must have attended the basic intervtewmg techniques workshop. Act1ve participation IS ex- pected. \Your Interview\ This three-part v.ide~ tape series on interviewing techniques will be run continuously' from 9:00 am to 4:00 pm on Januarr 15 and 22 at the. Career Center. Part !-Interview Preparation; P_art II-The Interview; Part III-Interv1ew Follow-up. Worbhop Location ,Change TheOpen Forum, scheduled for Janua.ry :20, will be held in Conference Room A, Srd Floor Carnegie, rather than Strauss Lounge. Circle K Dance Marathon for M.D.A. This Saturday-Sunday, . 8:00 pm - 8:0Q am in Alumni Gym. - Jtdmission at the door Sponsot Sheets Available in Stud. Act. ' . (Prizes, Beer,. Good Music, Fun, •.. ) . . MISSING: One box of slides and books (2'x2'). The· .box contained slides and illustrative information material for lectures.- If anyone has a11y infor~ation, please contact Praf. Freund Gt 6208. Is that SCOTT RATCHICK? Wbat's HE ·doing in Seltenec· tady? Car-l hope I get to see i,lay's great ass from st.age left. Love, Me Christopher-Alias \X\- Welcome back!!! 1 missed you lots!!!! Photographers do it ip tbe dark! New Personals Poli~y Beginning next issue, Orp.c&rdy will be institating a new nnu,Mr regarding the submisaion of personals. Couoord, is one of the newspapers in the area that does not make any financial orontl from its personals. We ar~, however, gcing to .begin members of the college oommtmity for printing their personals. We have decided to donate all of the money from personals to the UNITED WAY of Schenectady. We feel that we have many good reasons for tbis decision. The charge for personals will be 25 cents, :not a restrlctivP- price at all. The choie~ of donatillg tbe money to charity was made because we want to show tile campus that Coneordy is not instituting this policy as a money-m.aki.ng measw-e. UNITED WAY l.s a most worthy cause, pro money ~ . numerous organ.ozatio.ns which benefit the entire ·ion College co.mmunity. A sigtJfi.cant fact to consider: 96 cemts out of every $1 goes directly to the people who need the money in the form of services (the other 4 eents goes to offset administrative and other costs). . The personals section of Concordy is the source of a lot of fwl; it can also be a sollr()e f>f a lot of good work in a very tangible • WeJuipe:that.pers(}na1a will keep pouring m; we will be happy :prlnt .. yotit mesSiages. . \ The new policy r~g~ding personals is as follows: . '1. Ff>rms ·,Will oo a'Vailable from the, ·&x Office whenever a tstlll<leJilt nr6n duty~ . · 2, 25<cen~. wm pur~hase·l form. and we will accept 1 form per DON'T MISS THE FIRST SltOW OF litE TERM 1st Ad: BETQ BAUMGARTEN 2nd Act: ERIC RUBEN M.C.: TOMMY HIGGINS Thursday, Ja_~uary 14, 1982 Shows at 9 & 11 Tickest on Sale in Carnegie Ticket Booth Spend a day \on-the-job\ with Union alumni February 9, 10, and 11 Details coming soon to on-camp-.Js mailboxes

. . ! If ·ank ' up iting ment mow 'ning dule- t the I 17 ST 1 ie CONCORDIENSIS~ January 14:~ 198S Page 18 e Ices '.., . ' Sigma Delta Tau Sisters and Pledges-Get psyched for a wild term! A challenge to a bonus Pledge Trainer: cups in the Skellar at your convenience. From a fellow V.P. at SDT {we'll see who's still standing) SD'r sisters and Pledges: Our piano is coming, our piano is coming. Stay tuned fQr more info. Happy 18th Little Caitalin! Say Mum, do check twice-- Yor romaytes Mike Bossy fans look out here comes Ron Duguay on the Madison Square Garden net- work San Antonio and Tenafly-5o what did you have for lunch'? Glow'in the dark (I think we'll leave it at that,. eh?) Dove-Happy Annivet1sary!! ! 3 years 3 months never felt so good&Dovey PSK-·Happy Rusian New Years. DT and L D.C.~You made Christmas break a lot nicer. D and L TO Wiffle Waffle-r Love You. Little Bunny-Your cute right down to your mouse. Mike F -Happy Birthday a little late-Your side kick Trouble: Do you still love me even though I'm not in a posiUon of power? Dear Rail: One of these days I am going to come up behind. you, and you'll never know What hit you. All you'll kl1owisth.at it was a lot of fun. Dear Margo: Welcome back. It is real nice having you around. RIM · Paul: Even though things have changed; it still seems as though whither thou goest . . . your \ex\ Dear Mom: Thanks. Bernstein: Where are you? I never see you anymore. Speak to me! Love., Rachel Chuck: I haven't seen you since last term. Don't you ever come I)Ut'l If you see me, please stop and say hello. RIM Mark K.-Thanks for the pinball game. Rachel Dear Ray Jay: We have pity on your bones-you can leave the paper on the first floor. Dear Dave W.-Did you ask me if I wanted to work as an editor for Union Views? I'll consider it, but only if Mark will be my assistant. Rachel. Who are the Kinks? To our Great Tri-Delta Tuesday,January19 Advanced Interviewing Techniques Workshop 7:00-9:00 p.m. at the Career Center What do interviewers look for in prospective candidates'! Gain first-hand knowledge from, and ask questions of, three area Professionals. This session will also ~rovide an opportunity to improve interviewing techniques through Practice with the profess10nals. . . Note: Please sign up for all workshops in adv~nce at the Career Ce:fiter. Pa~.1c1p~nts. must have attended the basic interviewing techmques workshop. Active parttclpabon IS ex- pected. \Your Interview\ This three-part video tape series on interviewing techniqaes will be run continuously· from 9:00 am to 4:00 pm on January 15 and 22 at the Career Center. Part !-Interview Preparation; Part II-The Interview; Part III-Interview Follow-up. Workshop Location .Change The Open Forum, scheduled for January 20, will be held in Conference Room A, 3rd Floor Carnegie, rather than Strauss Lounge. Circle K Dance Marathon for M.D.A. This Saturday-Sunday, . 8:00 pm .. 8:00 am ·in Alumni Gym. Admission at the door Sponsor Sheets Available i:n Stud .• Act. (Prizes, Beer, Good Music, Fun, ••. ) MISSING: One box of slides and books (2'x2'). The box contained slides and illustrative information material for lectures. If anyone has any information, please contact Prof. Freund at 6208. pledges: This will make everything else worth it. We ._ ____________ , love you all, now and always. great ass .from stage left. Love, With much love, Cindy and the Me est of the Sisters. \ Is that SCOTT RATCHICK? What's HE ·doing in Schenec- tady? Car-l hope I get to see Ray's .. . . Christopher-Alias \X\~· Welcone back!! ! I missed you lotsH!! Phot()graphers d<J it in the dark! New Personals Policy DON'T MISS THE FIRST SHGW OF THE TERM 1st Act: BETH BAUMGARTEN 2nd Act: ERIC RUBEN M.C.: TOMMY HIGGINS Thursday, Ja_nuary 14, 1982 Shows at 9 & 11 Tickest on Sale in Carnemie Ticket Booth Spend a day 1 'on-the-job\ with Union alumni February 9, 10, and 11 Details coming soon to on-campus mailboxes

Page 14 OONCORDlENSIS~ January 14, 1981 -::.- . Intramural ,Roundup ByDAVEPACE Intramural Writer The five-man basketball season opened last night with a bang. Seven games were played, three of which went into overtime. All fourteen teams that played showed a great deal of enthusiasm, and the level of excitement in the Fieldhouse was high aH night. This excitement is sure 'to C•Jntinue as there are 36 teams with over 200 players signed up to play in the 1982 season. The first overtime game last night was in the \B\ league. The game matched Sigma Chi Dirt against the Joe Mamas. Simua Chi pulled out the hard fought game by a score of 42-40. In \A\ league, Chi Psi, who many thought was the best team .ffi, the league, lost the next overtime game to Theta Delta Chi. The talent invol:ved in this game was extraordinary as each team had two players who played varsity basketball at Union at one time or .another. The difference .in the game was Theta Delta Chi's clutch foul shooting in the final minute of the overtime period. The final overtime game matched Sigma Chi Gold and the Runnin' Rehels. This game also matched two highly talented teams. Four of the seven Sigma Chi players dunked in wann-ups,...and each INTRAMURAL POINT STANDINGS Organization l.SigmaCbi 2. PhiSig 3. Chi Psi 4. Fiji 5. Beavers 6.DU 7. Phi Delta Theta 8.ZBT 9.TDX 10. Delta Phi ll.Beta 12. Delta Chi 13. PsiU 14.SigPhi 15. Alpha Delta Phi 16. Kappa Sigma Independents 1. 3rd Floor Fox House 2. Cinderella Kids 3. Running Rebels 4. Davidson! 5. Gaping Holes CURLING BONSPIEL Refine your newly acquired curling skills or find out what it is all about at a Friendly Competition this Friday, January 15 at 3:30. Bring a four member team or pick one up there. Student-Faculty-Staff- All al'e welcome. NO EX- PERIENCE NEEDED!! $1 Beer and Munchie fee. For more information contact Marc at 37'/-7993. ' Points 663 400 346 228 204 f55 150 140 126 90 85 80 70 35 ·0 0 105 95 80 45 40 CURLING INTltAMtJRALS Start Monday, January 18. Deadline for entry forms Saturday, January Hi. Entry forms available at the rink. Independents and fraternities get your four-member teams together. For more information contact Marc at 377-7993. RUGBY IN THE SUN This spring the Union Rugby Club will tentatively be playing in the Bermuda Rugby Tournament with such teams as Tennessee Tech., Univ. of Massachusetts, and Franklin and Marshall. A discounted tour package is available to rugby players 'and spec- tator students who wish to travel to Bermuda the week of March 19- 26. The Wlbelievable low price of $426 includes: air travel, cottage or apartment accommodations, lunches, happy hours, a booze cruise and Budweiser sponsored beach parties. Those interested should contact Jay McDermott or Joe Cardino at 382-9029. Support Union Sports· of the starters on the Runnin' Rebels played jayvee basket- baH at Union. Sigma Chi opened up an early lead and was ahead at the half. In the second half, the Rebels carne back :to take the lead, only to have the game tied at the end of regulation time. After a few lead changes in the OT, Sigma Chi pulled' out a 65-63 victory. However, one of the Sigma Chi players was ruled ineligible before the start of the game and therefore the Runnin' Rebels automatically won by forfeit. As was evideNced by the first night of action, the 1982 .five- man basketball season promises to be very exciting. Participate In Intramural Activities Hockey Notes: SCHOOLBOY TOURNEY ByPAULKURKER Staff 'Reporter The 2nd Atnnual Capital District Prep School Hockey Tour• nament was held January 8, 9.~ and 10 at the Center City A:rena and here at Union College's Achilles Rink. The tournament attracted eight teams which were divided into two divisions. The teams which competed were: the Union College J. V. 's, Canterbury School, Avon r .d Farms, New Hampton School, Northwood School, Hotchkiss; Northfield-Mt. Herman, and the Chicago Minor Hawks. The tournament not only drew many fans but also numerous college scouts from every league and division, hailing from all parts of . the country. Some professional scouts were also spotted in the stands for this prep-hockey showcase. On Friday and Saturday, the preliminary rounds wer-e played and when the smoke cleared only Avon Old Farms, NorthwoOd, New Hampton, and Chicago remained. In the semifinals, Northwood edged the Chicago squad 6-4, despite incredible acrobatics by the Chicago net-minder. In the other semifinal, New Hampton edged the underdog Avon team in overtime. In the cham- pionship .game it was the New Hampton Huskies who came out with a victory on a last minute goal by tournament MVP Bill Holzman. Although the. host,. the Union J. V.'s, had just four days of practice before the tournament, they played with heart aud desire. Their first two games were both lost in the last five minutes which was due to the lack of stamina coming off the Christmas break. Their third and final game was lost to· the· eventuaL champions, New Hampton. Six players were chosen for the All-Tournament team along with tourney MVP Bill Holz- man .. Selected were Eric McDonough from New Hamp- ton, from Northwood Jim Otto, Glenn Lenny, and Bob Statton were selected. Greg Heidenreich from Avon was· selected and Gump Worsley of Chicago was unanimously selected as the all-tourney goaltender. The tournament was a complete 'success and was enjoyed by players, coaches, scouts, plfrents and spectators. Hockey Romps Hamilt~n By D.S. HURLEY Sports Editor The Union College Skating Dutchmen destroyed the Hamilton Continentals this past Tuesday before a disappointing crowd of only 1066. The Dut- chmen had just come off a loss to a strong Oswego team, wllile Hamilton recently beat Oswego, 8-7. Union started quickly with Joe Picano scoring just 38 seconds into the period. Brian Shea and Joe Caruso received assists on the play. Hamilton tied up the game at 4:19 of the period. The remainder of the period was close checking. The second period belonged to sophomore Joe Caruso. He finished off two nice passing plays set up by Picano, Shea, and Tod Fob._are. Union stat'ted to pour it on toward the end of the second period. Hamilton,s sophomore goalie, Michel Cassier, a native of Toronto, MORE HOCKEY P. 16 ·· kept Hamilton in the gamE; kicking away nineteen shots in the period. The floodgates opened up in the third period. Union forechecked hard and f()rced Hamilton to make mistakes, which Union capitalized on. The Dutchmen passed especially well in this period always hit• ting the moving open skater. Scorers for Union in the thir-d period were Mickey Perras, Mark Bon, Tod Fobare, and Dan O'Neil. It was a great game overall for the Dutchmen. The lille of Joe Picano, Brian Shea, a-nd Joe Caruso played well and provided some much needed balanced scoring. This game also marked the return of ttl- captain Scott Fitzgerald, who had missed twelve games this year and all of last year's regular season games. Fitzy saw li,mited action but looked strong on his skates. Jamie Knight watched the game from the press box due to a nagging knee injury. Bill Werneke filled in for Kinght on Fobare's line. Tri-captain Mike Merlo was sharp in the nets for Union. Merlo stopped several close shots and came up with a game total of 31 sav_es to improve his record to 2-3 in Division-H. SPORT.S HAPPENINGS Vars.ity Basketball J.V. Basketball Varsity Hockey Women's Basketball Swim~ing Ja11. 14-21 Jan. 14 at Albany Jan. 16 Rochester Jan. 19 at Plattsburgh Jan. 21 Binghamton Jan. 20at St. Rose Jan. 15 at Bowdoin Jan: l6at Colby Jan. 19 at Elmira Jan. 16 Russell Sage Jan. 19 at Skidmore Jan. 21 North Adams Jan. 16 Hobart Jan. 20 Trinity 8:00 8:00 8:00 8:00 8:00 7:00 2:30 7:30 6:00 7:00 6:00 2:00 4:00 0 - Q s::. 0. ci

New out inute of and five the the third the· New for Eric Otto, was· of rney s a was game tri- who this Fitzy from filled line. was close his 30 00 00 00 00 OONOOBDIENS18, Ja/nluarJi 14 1 198B Page liS ~·· Athlete of the Week ~ By MIKE SHARP ·Staff Writer Congratulations to Bart Bro<>ks, who has garnered the first Athlete of the Week Award of 1982. and the winter semester. against each other in junior hockey, when Fitzy played defense for the Newmarket club. At St. Andrews, Bart was an all around athlete. He played Football, and was the leading receiver in his conference. In addition, .he played a top game of Rugby. 0 - Bart plays goalie for the Skating Dutchmen, and has done a solid job of keeping opponent's pucks out of the Union net. He has a division 11 record of 3-1, and a division 11 Goals Against Average of 3.2. To top it off, his Saves Average for Division 11 is an outstanding .897 percent. chmen games this past week; 48 ofthem.against Division 1, RPI, 33 against Middlebury, and 25 in the first two periods against Oswego, before he was sidelined with a slight head injury. Bart's efforts against powerful RPI and Oswego couldn't save the games for the Dutchmen as they lost 3-1 and 5-2 respect- fully. Against Middiebury, how~ver, Bart's goaltending was an important factor in the 6-3 Dutchmen victory in Mid- dlebury, Vt. Bart is extremely psyched about the potential of the Skating Dutchmen. He has big hopes, and he feels that the squad, soon to be boosted with the return of Scott Fitzgerald, has chances of making the play- offs. Q J::. a. d - vi Obersta·dt ECAC All-Star . (CNB )--Junior free safety George Oberstadt (Sandy Hook, Conn.) was named to the ECAC Division III Upstate New York All-8tar Football Team, it was announced yesterday. Oberstadt, ~ 5'9\ 160-pound Computer Science major, played in all nine games for the Dutchmen. He intercepted five passes and was responsible for 45 solo tackles and 53 assists. Oberstadt's performances against Rochester and RPI qualified him for the ECAC's Weekly Honor Roll during the season. Union, which had its best season since 1970, finished the sear as the No. l team in passing defense in New England. The Dutchmen in- tercepted 19 passes and allowed a total of 86.89 yards per game. Union finished the year with a 4- 4-1 record. Ol>erstadt, a 1979 graduate of Newton High School, is the son or George and Susan Oberstadt of Riverside Road in Sandy Hook. The ·ECAC has honored Bart by naming birn the division 11 Goalie ~f the Week. Evidently they were impressed by his 106 saves during the three Dut- Final Fall Sports Standings ByCNR FOOTBALL( 4-4-1) Union 14, Rochester 14 Union 21, Georgetown 0 Union 10, Albany St. 7 · Colby 10, Union 3 Union 21, RPI 7 Trinity 25, Union 18 Williams 30, Union 6 Union 36, Hamilton 0 JV FOOTBALL (5-1) Union 28, RPI 6 Union 22, Middlebury 19 Union 19, HVCC (B) 7 Union 18, Williams 14 Albany St: 27, Union 24 Union 14, Wilbram-Mun. 0 MEN'S SOCCER (6-6-2) Union 1, St.'-Lawrence 0 Cortland 2, Union 0 Union 2, Army 2 (OT) Hamilton 2, Union 0 Union 1, Binghamton 0 Union 0, Albany St. 0 (OT) Union 4, Siena 1 Union 4, RPI 0 Union 5, Colgate 0 Plattsburgh 1, Union 0 Oneonta 3, Union 1 Rochester 3, Union 2 Marist 4, Union 2 Union 8, Kings Point 0 JV SOCCER (6-2) Union 1, RPI 0 ·Union 3, Hamilton 1 Union 2, Siena 1 Union l, Albany St. 0 Union 5, Albany Phar. 1, Albany 1, Union 0 RPI 1, Union 0 Union 1, Hartwick 0 CROSS-COUNTRY men (2-6) Siena 15, Union 50 Union 18, Oneonta 42 Colgate 19, Union 42 Hamilton 23, Union 35 Coast Guard 30, Union 71 Middlebury 36, Union 71 Union 26, Trinity 31 · RPI 18, Union 45 CROSS-COUNTRY women (3-2) Hamilton 26, Union 29 Middlebury 15, Union 54 Union 54, Coast Guard 68 Union 27, Williams 30 Union 23, Trinity 32 FIELD HOCKEY (3-9-1) Manhattanville 2, Union 0 Russell Sage 2, Union 1 Hamilton 1, Union 0 Union 1, Middlebury 1 (OT) Smith 4, Union 1 Oneonta 5, Union 1 Vassar 3, Union 1 Uni()n 2, Skidmore 1 Uni()n 3, Siena 2 ' Hartwick 3, Union 1 Rochester 1, Union 0 Wells 2,. Union 0 Union 2., Russell Sage 1 WOMEN'S TENNIS (6·5) Hamilton 5, Union 2 Union 4, CQlgate 3 Union 4, Middlebury 3 Siena 4, Union 3 Vassar 6, Union 1 Union 6, RPI 1 Skidmore 6, Unio~ 1 Unicn 6, Russell Sage 1 Albany 5, Union 2 Uni()n 5, Hartwick 2 Uni()n 6, RPI 1 WOMEN'S SOCCER (0-7) Castleton St. 8, Union 0 Skidmore 2, Union 0 Hamilton 8, Union 0 RPI 5, Union 1 Siena 2, Union 0 RPI 2, Union () Hartwick 11, Union 1 VOLLEYBALL (12-17) Brooklyn 3, Union O+ St. Lawrence 3, Union O+ Brockport 2, Union 0 Union 2, New Paltz 0 Vassar 2, Union 1 . Pace 3, Union 1+ Union 3, Siena 2+ Williams 2, Union 0 North Adams 2, Union 0 Union 3, Russell Sage O+ Albany 3, Union 1 + Union 3, LeMoyne 1 + Union 2, Skidmore 0 Siena 2, Union 1 Union 2, Bryn-Mawr 1 Union 2, Pace 0 Wellesley 2, Union 1 Union 2, Vassar 0 Union 2, Williams 1 Union 2, Russell Sage 0 Albany St. 2, Union 0 Eastern Conn. 2, Union 0 Queens 2, Union 0 Stony Brook 2, Unnon 0 Union 2, Lehman 0 Stony Brook 2, Union 0 Union 2~ Russell Sage 0 , Oneonta 2 1 Union 0 Army 3, Union 1+ Scores are based on a best two.. of-three game set except when indicated with a + in which case scores are based on a best three-of-f·ive game set. Prior to Union, Bart played goalie for St. Andrew's College in Aurora, Ontario and played junior hockey for the Aurora team. At St. Andrews he was the number one goalie and was named MVP. It is interesting to note that St. Andrews is the alma mater of Skating Dut- chmen captain Scott Fitzgerald, and that. Bart and Fitzy played Bart fills the net with his 6 foot 3 inch and 195 lbs. He hails from Newmarket, Ontario and his major is as yet undecided. The best of luck to ace goaltender Bart Brooks and to the rest of the Skating Dut- chmen. O.T. By DAVE RUDEN In the past nineteen weeks, Cincinnati and San Francisco have emerged as the cream of the crop in their respective conferences. This would have been unheard of in any normal ' season (last year both teams finished at 6·10), but 1981 was anything but regular. Of the ten teams that made it into post- season activities last year, only four were able to make a repeat performance. This was the year of the underdog. During this season many of the established powerhouses tasted defeat for the first time in a long while. Franchises like Oakland, Los Angeles, and Minnesota succumbed to the mediocrity usually reserved for their divisional rivals. At the same time, perennial doormats like New Yorkjs Jets and Giants, Detroit, Kansas City and the two.Super Bowl teams became forces to be reckoned with. Finally, there was a third type of team; those like Atlanta, Cleveland and Houston. These clubs showed signs of becoming consistent contenders only to fall back into the rebuilding process. Fragile defenses will have to be rebuilt for these franchises to return to the top. 1981 was also the year of the rookie. Never in recent history have first year players made such an impact on the professional game. The most noticeable change took place in Jersey, where Lawrence Taylor was prominent in transforming the Giant defense into one of the best in the league. The rookie from North Carolina sent fear into the faces of opposing quarterbacks, who spent more time worrying about Taylor blitzing than the play at hand. It was largely because of Taylor that the Giants made it as far as the conference semi-finals. New Orleans received some respectability due to the run- ning of George Rogers. TJ:ie South Carolina grad led the league in rushing, while helping to open up the Saint offense. In Kansas City, Joe Delany helped make the Chiefs contenders for the first time in nearly a decade. He was one of the leading rmmers in the AFC. On January 24th, in the Silverdome, it will be rookies who play an important part in deciding the outcome of Super Bowl XVI. The 49ers sport a secondary comprised of three rookie starters: Ronnie LOtt, Carlton Williamson, and Eric Wright. These three have helped to solidify a defense that was 27th in the league a year ago. This year they were second. Lott, in particular, has stood out as a gambling defender who can alter the course of a game with a flick of his wrist. Including the playoffs, Lott has intercepted nine passes, returning four for touchdowns. The 49ers defense will have their hands full with the Bengals' sensational rookie receiver Cris Collingsworth. The former Florida Gator was second on the club with 69 receptions, good for 9 TDs. He has helped open up the passing lanes for Ken Anderson, and this in turn has aided the other Bengal pass catchers. Super -Bowl XVI will probably be an ait duel, with Anderson going against Joe Montana, Bill Walsh's star pupil. Both teams possess excellent receivers to haul in the pigskins that are certain to fill the air. The game plans of both coaches will also be vital factors. Walsh and Bengal coach Forrest Gregg deserve credit for patient jobs in developing their respective teams into championship caliber ones. In the end the game may be decided on an unusual play. It would be an appropriate ending for this season. SUPPORT UNION ATHLETICS

Page 16 OONOORDIENSlS, .January 14, 19Be ~ . . - ' . ' . . ' •• •• • •• •• •• • 1 ., ' • •• • ' • Basketball Sporadic ByJ.M. Sports Staff After playing well in a top- notch tournament hosted by Franklin and Marshall, the Union basketball team suffered two disappointing losses to . Williams and Middiebui'y, dropping their record to 3-5. The Union basketball team, after not playing a season game for a month, battled to a 59-55 win over highly ranked Franklin and Marshall in the first round of the Big Brothers- Big Sisters Basketball Tour- nament. This victory gave Coach Scanlon his 118th career win, tying him with William Hard- man as the all-time winningest basketball coach at Union College. Following a close first half, the F-M Diplomats jumped to a 38-27 lead with 18 minutes left. The superior backcourt com- bination of Joe Clinton and Joe Wood forced a pair of tur- noovers and pulled the Dut- chmen to 41-42 with 8:57 remaining. A couple of plays later, John (the Count) Montanile an- swered with a three point play, to lift Union to a 44-42 lead. Once Union gained the lead, they went into their four corner offense, which opened up back- door layups for Clinton and Jarosak and kept Union alive down the\'stretch. Anderson, F-M's premier player, hit five straight points, to close the gap to 56-55, until freshman forward Kevin Bartlett tossed in two clutch free throws to put the game out of reach. The final scm·e of 59-55 improved Union's record to 3,2. The finals of the Tourney matched Union against Widener, the 4th ranked Division III basketball team in the country. After a see-saw battle, Widener jumped to a 46- 40 advantage which proved too much for the Dutchmen to overcome, as they lost 48-46. Widener took control near the end of the first half to close with a 24-23 margin at the half. With the score even at 33-33, DeRogatis exploded for 10 straight points to put Widener THE ALL-NEW 1982 UNION RUGBY FOOTBALL CLUB WILL HOLD A MEETING MONDAY, JANUARY 18 IN HU 112. Mandatory attendance. - ..... Spring tournament to be discussed. fll Vi 0 0 .s::. 0.. ahead 43-38. The sharP\shooti11g of Joe Clinton .allowed a :;pectacular comeback from 46-40 to tie it up at 46-36. DeRogatis; canned a pair of foul shots with 1:01 remaining. These p~oved to be the winning points ·for Widener, as Union lost the de<=ision on the alternate possession ·call in the last minute of play. John Montanile and Joe Clinton were selected te the all- tournament team. Tile \Count\ scored 16 points against Franklin and Marshall and played above the rim throughout the game:, snaring a total of 15 rebaunds, . .and adding 20 points for the tournament. Clinton, an outstandi11g Divisioh III player, led in J)oints and assists, with 26 and 10, respectively. John Jarosak, having an excellent year thus far, scored 22 .p()ints and grabbed 1() caroms. In the Williams g~me, Union lost a four point lead, with on minute remaining to he sunk 65- 64 by Zeke Fasulo's baseline jumper with :02 seconds remaining. A questionable jump ball call gave Williams the pass in under the basket which upended Union Joe Wood had the hot hand for Union, connecting on JJ of 9 from the field in the first half. He ended with 21 pGi:nts. John Jarosak had anotller good performance, putting some key shots in during the second half. J.J. tallied 12 points, Clinton scored 16 points and added 7 assists. Kevin Bartlett and John Montanile combined for 17 rebounds, 9 and 8, respectively. The Dutchmen's 11ext stop was Middlebury, where they were held scoreless f()r the final 4:35 to lose another sql.leaker 65- 63. Right's foul shots: with two seconds to go left Uni~n helpless as their record sli£1. to 3-5. Clinton finished with 26 points (11 of 16 field goal ::;hooting), Montanile had lB points and 10 rebounds, and Jarosak had 12 to round out the scoring. Pete Gillen, freshman reserve guard, played very well defensively for the ])utchmen. Union travels to IIamilton, New York, to play Division I Colgate, Tuesday, Jan. 12, Joe Woods goes high ~.vith the ball Mi.ckey Perras battles with RPI's .Marty Dallmat:'l. By D ;s. HURLEY Spcrts Editor Concordiensis last reported that the Skating Dutchmen were undefeated in two pre- season games and were awaiting their first regular season opponent, Geneseo St. Union went on to a decisive 5-3 victory and were flying high. However, thEir next four games consisted of three Div. I teams and the NCAA Div. II finalist, Plattsburgh St. Plattsburgh, with Jacques Lemaire as an assistant coach, came into Achilles Rink and had to work hard to defeat the previously undefeated Dut- chmen, 7-4. Many of the players thought that this year's Platt- sburgh team was a better team than the one Union upset last year in Plattsburgh. Two days later, Union traveled to Tr()y to play Div. I RPI which had been highly touted in pre,season polls. Led by Bart · Br()Oks in goal, the Dutchmen gave the Engineers a game they weren't expecting. It was close and exciting the whole game. The game looked Stands 5-4 like it was heading into over- time at 4-4 only to have R.PI score a disl:Jeartening goal with only 1:13 to play. Division I Dartmouth, a team that had reached the final four of the NCAA hockey tour- nament in two .of the past three years, ptillecl in from Hanover three days later. Union gave the cocky Dartmouth skaters a solid game only to lose 6-4. The day after Thanksgiving, Union traveled to West Point. It was a game the Dutchmen would rather forget. The team was completely flat. The· Ed Colazzo-led Cadets easily handled Unicm, defeating them 9-2. Union got back to Div. II play against Buffalo. Union easily handled the weak Buffalo team and skated to a 4-1 victory, making them 2-1 in Division II play. The Dutchmen were then on the road a day later visiting Norwich. This was a game Union cot.tld have won. The refereeing -was so poo!, that it indeed effected the outcome of the game. Norwich, led by hig]l- scoring Steve Palazzi, beat Union 6-3. After having no formal practices Dec. 7-11, due to exams, the Dutchmen regrouped for a rematch with Plattsburgh at the Plattsburgh State Field House. Last year Union upset the Cardinals at Plattsburgh, 5-2. However, it would not happen again this year. It was a tough game to lose because the Dutchmen were in the game the whole way only to be edged out in the end by a 3-2 margin. While most- of the college community was home or hanging out on a beach somewhere south of Schenec- tady, Union's hockey team was hosting Elmira on Dec. 19. Ehnira, which had a very strong playoff team last year, has been plag11ed this year with problems within the team. As a rr- ~ult, they are not as strong as 1ast year's terun. The Dutclr '~n proved this with a solid 5-l victory. On only the second day of winter term, the Skating Dutch- men were back at it again, this time hosting the rematch with RPI in front uf a crowd of 3,142. Union opened the scoring quickly with leading scorer Tod Fobare ltnocking in a T.J. Ryan rebound only 19 seconds into the first period. RPI went on to scqre three unanswered goals with L.A. Kings draftee Marty Dallman knocking in two of the goals. Union was flat all game as a:-result of a 17-day layoff. On Thursday, January 7, Union traveled to Middlebury to gain their first road victory of the season. Union was out to avenge a 11-2 thrashing by the Panthers a year ago. The Dutchmen started off the game with little intensity. Between the first and second periods, though, Coach Morrison- got the Dutchmen going. They proceeded to go out and control the seconcl period and gain a 3·2 edge. The third period was all Union. The Dutchmen were able to overcome the stink bombs that were thrown onto their bench by the Middlebury fans- and skate to, a 6-3 -victory. Six different players scored for the Dutchmen. On Go Garnet Go Nite, Union hosted the Great Lakers from Oswego St. The Great Lakers proved to be mucb too strong for Union. They were big, quick and passed very well. Dave Lair had two goals and an assist for Oswego. T.J. Ryan and Don Beall had the goals for Union. Don Beall's goal marked his first of the season. He should regain his scoring touch now after missing five games, and being back· with 2-year linemate Tod Fobare. Despite outshooting Oswego 45-38, Union lost 6-2. HOCKEY NOTES Soph tri~captain Scott Fit- zgerald who has yet to play in a regular season game since his freshman year was due to see some action in last Tuesday's game against Hamilton. Freshman defenseman Sean Wills has also been out of action. He hasn't played since the Buffalo game. Freshman defenseman Rich Pettit has been lost to .the team due to academic reasons. Because e~f the problems on defense, crafty forward Gil Eagan has had to play defense. Also, senior Bill Wall, a hard hitter, was moved back on defense after starting the season at forward. With a healthy team, Union should improve on their 4-4 record. The Dutchmen faced Hamilton on Tuesday and travel to both Colby and Bowdoin this weekend. More on Page 14 • ( .• I

As a as ''m 5-1 of this with Tod Ryan the on to goals of the game 7, of to the The the They a 3·2 all able their fans Six the from for for Don his He year to Bill th a The on both this 14 tl) 0 .. 0 & .... (!) ro > ro u (!) c ro -. >- ..c 0 0 ..c Q. . . **************************************************************************: Winter Carnival Events p.4 **************************************************************************: CXI, ·No. 11 January 21, 1982 Trustees Elect Burns Baby it's told outs'ide!! But things are sure to warm up this weekend with Winter Carnival and the Kinks Concert. (See p.4) Bv A.J. BRODSKY Staff and Combined Sources On January 13, the Board of Trustees met in New York City to discuss and decide on several · key iSsues. Most important on the agenda were the election of new officers to the Board and President John S. Morris' mid- year report. New York attorney Arnold I. Burns was elected to the office of Chairman. Burns, a senior partner in a Park Avenue law firm, is a 1950 Union alumnus and has been a member of the Board of Trustees since 1976. President Morris stated that Burns \will provide strong, insightful leadership as Union meets the challenges of the 1980's.\ Aid Axed ·Again By SUE BLOOMBERG Staff students of 1400, who are presently using a guaranteed student loan could be ineligible next year. Acpording to Massa, \this would force them to acquire through other resources over $1 million.\ · Continued on page 3 ' Burns, a graduate of the Cornell University Law School, is presently a member of the Council of Governing Boards of the Commission of Independent Colleges and Universities, a national associate of the Boys Clubs of America and a member and secretary of the Board of Governors of Union University. His daughter Linda and son Douglas are both graduates of the Uniori classes of 1975 and 1979, respectively. Burns commented on his strong obligation \to do all I can for the college that has done so much for me.\ Elected to the office of Vice- Chairman was Dr. Richard G . Day, Jr., of Glenns Falls, New York. As a point of information, Day was recently named Chairman of the National Committee of The Campaign for Union. A retired general surgeon, Dr. Day has been a College Trustee since 1973 and · served as Chairman from January '78 to January '82. The former Chairman is a 1939 Union graduate who is also Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Tile Hyde Collection in Glenns Falls, a trustee of the Adirondack League .Club and a fellow of both the American and International Colleges of Circulating rumors about the Reagan Administration's Budget cutsfor fiscal year 1983 indicate a distinct possibility of a 60 percent loss in higher education funds from 1983 and 1982 levels. Although substantiations-for these rumors are unavailable at the present tilne, major cuts in the N.DSL, SEOG and GSL seem likely. These cuts for fiscal year 1983, if adopted, would affect the budgets for both 1983 and 1984. The Pell Grant, which is also a direct loan to the student, is presently estimated to be cut by 40 percent for fiscal year 1983. What this would mean fgr Union is that 100 of 350 students who presently receive grants would be dropped from the program and those who would still receive the grant would receive $350 less than they do now. A ·proposed 30 percent cut in CQUege work-study for fiscal year 1983, according to Massa, \would not affect students as much as it would affect colleges.\ The jobs supplied by work-study at present would still have to exist because of the college's needs, but the funds would have to be allocated from ne.:w sources. Massa agreed, though, that while the students would not be affected directly by this cut, the proposal might force a slight hike in tuition to supply funds for student jobs. Fire At RPI Robert Massa,. Director of Financial Aid, stated that the Reagan administration is ''punching with both fists, trying to cut the 1982 budget, vviile at the same time, making trelnend()US cuts for 1983.\ The inability of the government to settle on the 1982 budget, ac- cording to Massa, has given them every chance to increase cuts in higher education that might not have occurred with -a fixed budget. The cuts in NDSL., which are being proposed by the Reagan administration would not have an effect on Union College, but would affect most other colleges. The NDSL has become a revolving loan program at Union because the college no longer receives 1 any federal government loans of this type. It now exists as_ a revolving program that allows new loans to be made as old loans are paid off. Therefore, there has been no increase in fwtds from the government for this program. The cuts proposed for SEOG, which is a direct loan to the scbool, would have a direct impact on the Union College student body. Massa indicated that this cut would affect about 190 students, with a loss of about $600 per student. The largest cuts facing all of higher education are those proposed for the GSL, which are made available to students through banks and subsidized by the federal government. The impact of possible GSL cuts on Union would be that 600 / By NAOMI BLANK I Editor-in..Chief Sunday, January 17 at ap- proximately 8:09a.m., tile Troy fire· department was notified of a fire at the Alpha Chi Rho fraternity on RPI's campus. FoUl\ members of the fraternity were inside the house at the time of the fire. All persons escaped without injury. The building, . one of three inhabited by the fraternity, new \appears totally gutted,\ said Tom Yurkewecz, Director of. Security. \The damage was very extensive,·~ stated Troy's Deputy Chief Thomas Nash. Nash continued to explain that \There was tremendous ELECTION POSTPONED The election for Freshman Representative to the Student Forum was postponed until Monday, January 25. Voting will take place in Carnegie Hall, second floor, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 4:30p.m. Runoff elections, if necessary, will be held the fol.lowing Tuesday during the same hours, The election was postponed to aHow can- didates to submit campaign statements to CONCORDIENSIS prior to the election. Results will be printed in next week's Concordy. Can- didates' statements can be found inslde on page 5. damage to the second floor and an awful lot of water damage to the first floor. The roof was totally burned off.\ • Approximately 23 firemen attended to the 2 alarm fire. The situation lasted exactly 4 hours from the sounding of the first alarm until the fire had been completely put out. Deputy Chief Nash stated the fire was caused \by student or student preparing preparing french fried potatoes in the kitchen.\ \It is our belief,\ he continues, ''that a pan of grease on the stove caught fire. It ignited the wall and got into th'e . partitions and away it went.\ Nash felt the problem lay in the fact that the members of the fraternity had altered the in- terior of the building. He commented that \students d<> as they please without any regard to proper building construction, fire protection, etc.\ He explained that students may be removing bearings walls, those walls supporting the building, without con- sidering the possible fire protection material they may contain. Nash stressed. \the wall has a tremendous effect on the outcome of a fire.\ Nash feel students do not pay enough attention to code en- forcements and building Continued on page :3 Surgeons. Augusta A. Scllwab of Schenectady was named Secretary of the Board. Mrs. Schwab, a graduate of Smith College, is a present member of the Junior League of Schenectady, a former director of the Schenectady chapter of the American Red Cross and a volunteer in many community service organizations. Schwab was named to the Board of Trustees in 1978 . The fourth member of the Office of the Chairman is now Mr. Lee L. Davenport, a 1937 graduate of Union from Greenwich, Connecticut. Davenport is a retired vice- president and chief scientist of General Telephone and Elec- tronics Corporation. Davenport has been a U hi on Trustee since 1968. Furthermore, the new officer is a fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers in addition to being a member of the National Ac.ademy of Engineering. The Report of the President, delivered by Morris at the meeting, was a mid-year look at the coming future of Union's academics and budgeting. Morris presented several questions to the Board with a series of the following com- ments. Questioned was Union's place in a computer oriented society. Morris stated that: \We have and apparently· will continue to have a need to expand and upgrade our . computer resources. Our teaching will more and more depend upon it. Our faculty and student research will more and more depend upon it. Our own administrative planning will more and more find it a basic tool.\ The Federal govermnent's move away from supporting students in higher E'du1·ation was brought up. The President made it clear that: Continued on page 2 .INSIDE: '~ .. · • Fr·eshman Rep. •····. · .stafements . p. 5 •• M.ovie, Review - p. 1 () ·• Peo.nuts p. 12· • Notionol News p. 12 · •Sports pgs. 14-16

• • Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, Ja-nuary !1, 198! . New Heads Hear Report Alumni to Host Continued from page 1 \Students and their parents apparently are going to be asked to shoulder more of the costs of their own education. The cuts in the var\tous grant programs and the retren- ch.'Ilent of the Guaranteed Student Loan Program tell us clearly that we cannot look towards a future ir1 which the federal gov.ermnent will dole out dollars to keep us strong. Naturally we will clo all in our power to urge the federal government to recognize that a public policy of strong support for students in higher educaHon is a desirable social aim. Can Union survive inflation? Morris replied that: \Our question is not whether we can survive the inflationary- pressures, but ratller how we can do this effectively while not undermining the quality that makes us a .strong and a significant college . It is our quality that we must protect at all costs: the quality of our faculty, the quality of our student body, the quality of our curriculum, and the quality of all the 'Programs and services we provide . . . ... (The priorities for funding in the 80's are for faculty salaries and student aid . . . \ Because of inflation there has been erosion of some of the . budgets for educational programs. For example, the inflation in the cost of books for our Library has been significantly more than the C.P.I. and therefore we have had some erosion here. The Academic Affairs Committee has appointed a subcommittee· to study the library. The report of this committee is being looked forward to with a great deal of interest. The future in terms of ad- missions was questioned.· The President reported that: Ken Nourse reports that visits to the Colle.ge have increased by about 11.4 percent this year. Of cotuse we have no· evidence yet that this is being translated into increased applications. At the moment our over-all ap- plications a-re down very slightly from this time last year, but Dean Nourse sees the matter to be related to the six- year programs and to our change in policy regarding Union CoHege ·will host the MID-YEAil CONFERENCE FOR AMERICAN FIELD SERVICE January 23rd to 24th Anyone interested in meeting with foreign students and/or hosting a student on campus for Saturday evening January 23rd, call Mike Andolina at X6061 COMMITTEE OP'ENINGS Applications for the follow in!;) committees will be available on Thursday, January 21 in the Student Activities Office. Completed applications must be returned t() that office by no later than Friday, January 29. Orientation C()mmittee This committee will organize and plan the Orientation Program for the Class of '86. The committee wi U also be responsible for selection of Orientatio11 Advisors. Sub-Committee ·an Hazing--2 Vacancies This committee investigates the definition of the law an9 specific cases of hazing on-campus. Sub-Council 011 Our Governance--4 Vacancies The council' will study the structure of Union's Governance system, by-laws and its ef- fectiveness. Chairman: B.rian Marks. , Sun-Council on Para-Academics--4 Vacancies Includes career planning and placement as well as academic dubs. Chairwoman: Kim Nogay. Sub-Council em Extracurricular Activities--4 Vacancies · ' The council will study all extracurricular activities existing at the present time and changes if necessary for the future. Cha.ir- woman: Ilene Landress. Sub-Counci I on Fraternities-Sororities--1 Vac~ncy for an lndpendent The council will study all aspects of the Greek System and its effects. early decision. We changed from a November 15 deadline for early decision to a February . 1st deadline, which the Dean believes will work to the ad- vantage of the College in at- tracting highly desirable students. By MARY BURSTINER Staff The Union College Career Center, in conjunction with the Capital District Alumni Clubs, · is sponsoring Car\eer Obser- vation Days to be held on D.irector Named February 9, 10, and 11. The p:urpose of the program is to glve students an idea of what various professionals do on a day-to-day basis by enabling them to spend a day with an alumni from one or more of the ma11y «c~pations offerec;i. The· professions r\epresented include. the fields of Law., Medicine, Engineering, Management, ?ublic Relations and Adver- ti:siilg, Banking, and Legislative Budget Analysis in addition to others. (CNB)-The position .of Director of Commuter Services has been .filled by Wayne Holt a graduate of Whitman College'in Walla Walla, Washington. Mr. Holt's appointment was an- n?unced b~ Thomas D'Andrea, Vtce Prestdent of Academic Affairs. · Mr. Holt completed his gr~duate studies in computer sc1~nce at the University af AriZona .. In addition to working for Martcopa County, Arizona Holt spent two years with th~ Computer SCience Center in Tehran, Iran. In 1977, Holt returned to his alma m~ter, Whitman College, to establish the college's first computer center, ·\The Whit- man Computer Center,\ Vice President D'Andrea stated, \has been cited as a model of· effective delivery of computer services and established standards of pr ograrnming quality.\ The Director of CompUtet.· Services oversees all operations of the Colleg·e•s Computer Center. The Center serves a variety of academic and ad- ministrative needs for both the , college and' community. The alumni involved have velllllteered to host students at their place of work. J.ane Cavalier, a junior at Union College who has been through the program, described it as bei1tg \outstanding\, and an ''invaluable experience.\ She commented that the alumni were personable, helpful, and i Poet Reads Work - \candidly honest.\ They spoke about their professions, an- swered. questions, and even gave out their phone numbers in case students might want ad· vice ot are in need of a summer job. The hosts gave advice on interviews and did not hesitate to tell both the good und the bad siqes of their jobs. Jane en- thusiastically recommended the program for ''anybody who is trying to decide what to do with tneit lives.\ It gave her a chance to meet people and to devel()p contacts. In her opinion, the Career Center did a \superb job\ and the program was \totally worthwhile.\ ( CNB )-Poet Michael Burkard will give a talk and present a reading of his work Thursday, Jan. 21, -at Union College. His talk will be held at 3:30 p.m. in the Humanities Building, room 115, and his poetry reading will begin at 8 p.m. in the Humanities. Lounge. All interested persons are welcome to attend. Burkard is a visiting assistant professor of English at Salisbury State College in Salisbury, Md. He is the author of four collections of poetry, including In a White Light (1977) and Ruby for Grief (1981). His poems have ap- peared in such journals as The American Poetry lteview and The Ohio Review, as well as in The 1 Ardis Anthology of New American Poetry. Burkard's visit to Union is the second in a series of readings sponsored by Idol, the College literary magazine, and by the English Department. Other writers who will visit the campus this winter are poet John Drmy {February 9) and poet Liam Rector (February 25). \' Pat Matteo of the Career Horoscopes page II · Center believes the program is especially beneficial for un- derl!lassmen who are thinking about certain careers, but have not yet reached a decision on what they are going to do. Sign ups .for the program will be held today and tomorrow, ~ January 21 and 22, at the Career . Center- Spaces are limited so students are encouraged to come early. For more in- f()rmation contact the Career Center at ext 6176. Who wHI be first with the avionics of. the 21st Century? We pioneered pulse Doppler radar. Today, three of the f()ur front-line US. tactical air~raft carry Hughes radars. We're leaders in synthetic- aperture radar, m~weather recon and strike radar, holographic displays, an~ mo~e. And wtth co~puter-aided design, manufacturing~ and testing of mtell1gent radar dev1ces, the future is at Hughes Aircraft for holders of ~S or MS degrees in Physics, EE, !Y1E, and Computer Science. Here near Los Angeles International Airport, we'll introduce you to people, ideas, and jobs that could change your world. And ours. It could be you and· Hughes Radar Systems r-------------~----, i HUGH,ES i 'I I L------------------J HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY RADAR SYSTEMS Proof of li.S. Citizenship Required Equal Opportunity Employer See your placement office tor an appr:tlntmen1,

The to a ling an The· to sat ane Ugh as an She and; . an- ad- on bad en- do a to her is un- on do. be ow, • so to in- . OONOORDIENSISJ January 21, 1982 Page 3 PropOsed, Cuts Raise Concerns Continued from. page I Because private colleges, such as Union stand to be hit hard by such proposals, higher education as a:. whole is moving toward new fund optjons for students. According to Massa, possible alternative loan procedures would help students to some degree, but a loss to ,private coUeges would be inevitabl·e with this double fisted· attack. -· great stake in these proposals,. should let their feelings be known. ~ At the Student Forum Meeting :()f Jan. 18, Mr. Massa explained how the students of Union call begin to express their opinions en this issue. Massa urged the Student Forum to enlist SUpJ)Ort from the student body against the budget cut proposals at a town meeting, which will , be headed by Congressman Sam Str~:~tton on Saturday, January 23, The meeting will be held from 10:00 .to 11:30 at the Schaffer Senior Citizens, Center · on Nott Terrace. Financial Aid Workshops to be Held in Residence Halls- ·• IJ 1 you n~ed !l'oney n~xt year there is one sure way to miss out: apply lat~. ApJ?I1cat1o~ de~dlmes are March 1 for the FAF and April 15 for the Union A1d Appl1cat1on. As if the mu~ltitude of aid applications, programs and deadlines is not enou_gh, the Re~gan Administration cutbacks can affect the amount of aid reQerved by Un·lonstudents. Toma:xirnize students' chances for aid the H_nan~ial Aid Office ~as announc;ed that it will conduct a series of ap-\' plrc~t1_o~ workshops m each res1dence hall. The sessions will review spec1f1c 1ten:s on the applications anc::l wi II afford students the opportunity to ask quest1ons on any aspect offioa;lildal aid. . Fraternity a~d off-ca\:lpus resid~lilts are also invited to attel}d any of the ~vorksh_ops m _the res1dence haNs. The schedule is printed below. All sess1ons w1ll begm promptly at 7:30 p.m. Sout_h Monday, January 25 Davidson \ Thursday, January 28 Rkhmond Monday, February 1 West Wednesday, February 3 Fox Thursday, February 4 Webster Monday, February 8 N?rth Thursday, February 11 Hickok TSA Robert Massa emphasized that while a 60 .percent loss is really possible for 1983-84; nothing has yet occured and with a large enough response may never occur. This is a key time, stated Massa, . because Reagan is about to present his budget for fiscal year 1983. In order to preserve the GSL for 1981 and 1982, the time between now and March, when the fate of these loans may be decided,. is very crucial to Union College. · As a result, Union CoUege;wiU begin another letter writing campaign this winter for both students and parents. Massa emphasized that the Union College student body, having a A, large attendance by the student oody at this meeting, according to Massa, \could make a big impression that may be communicated back to Washing~on.\ ·Massa em- phasized to the Forum that F. D.R. :Centennial: small pri:v-.ate scbools like Union could be J)rofoundly affected by A .N f • :D d these cut~. These cuts, in fact, . . • a I 0 n . a n c e ·could conceivably be · So Others May Wa:l k detrimental to both the quantity Editor's Note: and quality .of the student body at Schools such as Union. Renovation OK'd By NAOMI BLANK Editor-in-Chief A plan to renovate Hickock House was approved at the January 13 meeting of the Board of Trustees. Acting Dean· of Students Don Spring noted that \a time table (for the project) has not yet been determined.\ A committee with an ar- chitect is presently being for- med to evaluate the building both structurally and aesthetically. The members of the commlitee are expected to examine mom size and a more efficient use of common areas. \It is h()ped (the building) will be going from least desirable housing to hopefully pleasing ·and commodius housing,\ Spring explained. The project intends to \improve the quality\ of the building overall, said Spring. GRADUATING. SENIORS: ORDERS FOR GRADUATION ANNOUNCEMENTS ARE AVAILABLE IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE / . {Bet you didn't realize iust how close we're getting!!) This article is in observance of the F .D.R. Centennial Obsenance. This will be the first of a two article series !ooking at the work. done by the March of Dimes organization. CONCORDIENSIS is presenting these articles as a public service. On January 30, 1938, President Roosevelt's nationwide radio address was heard at Birthday Balls all over the country. These fund raising dances were held to support polio research, medical care and equipment aid whereve~ · the crippling, even fatal disease struck. Since the first birthday celebrations in 1934, FDR reported, \in literally hundreds of localities, facilities for combatting the disease have been created where none existed before. \ Campaign volunteers in 1939 opened a special magazine, \Courage whith a cover by famed illustrator James Montgomery Flagg. The magazine showed polio patients undergoing treatment, physical therapy, and the manufacture of serum and braces. 'Money raised at Birthday Balls made this possible. Readers also learned that comedian Eddie Cantor had asked people to mail dimes to the White House for . The Office of Financial Aid , Student Porum Concordiensis Now Is Our Chance To .Let Our Voices Be Heard Congressman sa·m Stratton .will be at the town meeting on Saturday, Jan. 23 Union studen_ts are strongly urged to ottend the meeting and voice their obiecUons concerning the financial aid budget cuts. Proposed Aid Revisions -Elimination ·Of the National Direct Loan program -Charging interest to students during college on G.uaranteed Loans -·30 percent- reduction i.n College Work Study, and more Date: Sat., Jan. 23 Time: 10 a.m.-11:30 a.m. Place:. Schaffer Senior Citi.zen Center on Nott Terrace, across from Arco Mini-Mar,ket r The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis. The response came to $85,000 in less than a month. At this point Cantor gave tlle campaign its lasting name, \the March of Dimes.\ In 1941, March of Dimes chapters were described in the annual edition of \Courage\ as \Our First Line of Defense Against the Invisible Invader.'' These chapters grew from 649 to 1,090 in one year because so many volunteers enlisted their services. Every effort was made to assure the best available care to polio victims. Physicians that year reported on March of Dimes grants to train orthopedic surgeons, biochemists, and public health and visiting muses. By January 1945, victory in W~rld War II was clearly at hand. For the March of Dimes, peace meant unlimited use of resources against polio. President Ro()sevelt died in Warm Springs on April12; 1945. Exactly 10 years later, the vaccine developed by Dr. Jonas Salk- which hadhad full March of Dimes funding - was an- nounced safe, potent and ef- Fire Continued from page 1 inspections, and emphasized the need for a permit to do any construction. Deeming the \most serious fire in that area in a good many years,\ Nash .. noted the ad- ditional difficulties of dealing with the fire as a result of the low temperatl!l'\es. \It was a long and drawn-out process,\ and he described that due to the \sever cold weather, it is dif- ficult for the men to work.\ In fective. Epidemic polio was at an end. By the early 1960s, Dr. Albert Sabin's oral vaccine, also supported solely by the March of Dimes, went into -full use. The President's Birthday Balls began a chain of support that enabled scientists to develop the exciting potentials of virology as they looked for ways to prevent polio. The March of Dimes-supported team of Drs. John Enders, Thomas Weller and Frederick Robbins was awarded the 1954 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for their achievement. Their discovery cleared the way toward the later rubella and measles vaccines. The knowledge gained from th~ innovative research of polio years proved invaluable when the March of Dimes redirected .its resources to the prevention and treatment of birth defects. This is America's greatest child - health problem and an even greater challenge than infantile paralysis. To protect maternal and newborn health, the March of Dimes today continues its legacy of support for research, medical services and education. addition, the water freezes and hereby reduces the efficiency of the actions . A statement released by RPI's Director of Security and the Dean of Students stated that \efforts are being coordinated through the Housing Depart- ment and Dean of Students Office to assist the fraternity members.\ Yurkewecz is at- tempting to find immediate housing for the students. se-curity is reading Concordiensis every Thursday See Peanuts~ on p .. 12 @ 1952 Untted Feature Syndtcate. Inc

Page 4 CONOORDiENSIS, January 21, 1982 Winter Carnival Special IDiportant lnforiDation Date: January 23, Saturday Time: 12-5 p.m. 50 cents donation 10 cents to play each game (booth) All money gc.es to M118cular Dystrophy · 20 cents to purchase food. Food service sold is the f~: chicken, pizza, hot dogs, popcorn, cotton <;.andy Beer and soda free. Sponsored by Budweiser. -some priz.es have been donated -Most will be small gag prizes .. -There will be 14 booths from 12 noon-4 p.m. and tile best booth·. will receive: 1st place-2 kegs 2nd place-$35 3rd place-$25 4th place-$20 5th place-$15 6th place-$10 Dave Wood is generow;ly covering the money for 2nd thrqugh 6th . places. · -Pie-Eaters were coordinated by HRA's and there will be three. (3) heats (1 p.m., 2 p.m., 3 p.m.). The winning dormitory will receive 1 keg for their efforts. . . . -WRUC will play music during the day. The number of dormitories having booths: Davidson-3, Fox-3, · North-2, Richmond-2, West-2, South-2. r i 0 ' z ... I 4:- .. 1- \' I - w . ..J ..J U.3: u.o =-~t~ ::1: ' -Cit...-u t z~z I <o3:· uzO I ~Q ::1: ' zon j c(ct ; u~ I Ill J ' (!))( I -- l lOCI) l &II 1 .... 1¥ <( 0 ...I ...I 00 00 :W:D. I Q l 0 I 0 u. oa. 0:: t· w w 10 :. 1 PIE THROW >I:>Vr )1:)\119 WATER BALLOON . . ,, - - . . . ' . ' ' - .. . .. COIN \TOSS LUCKY CIRCLE CHANGE BOOTH corN TOSS ON G LI\.SS First Annual THE PIE EATING CONTEST The Winning Dormitory Receives 1 (one) free Keg Scoring: 3 pts. first Place 2 pts. second place 1 pt. third place Davidson· Pie Eaters 1 :01) p.m. John Johnson 2:00p.m. Rob Israel 3:00p.m. Steve Cirello South Pie Eaters 1:00 p.m. Steve Wing 2:00 p.m. John Mracek 3:00p.m. JoeHunter Fox Pie Eaters 1:00 p.m. Andy Klump 2:00p.m. John Hadigan 3:00p.m. BarryCohen Webster.Pfe Eaters llOO p.m. Art Polimeno . 2:00p.m. EricKraus 3:00p.m. Frank Kraft West Pie Eaters 1:00 p.m. Mike Sheffield 2:.00p.m. ? 3:00p.m. Chris Kline I I - Floor Plan of Booths Booths .at the Carnival Fox Third Floor South-FOOTBALL THROW: Player must throw football through target hoop (tire) to win. . . .Richmond First Floor-OVER UNDER ROLL DOWN: Player rolls baU toward numbered slots to get high or low total. West College-BLACK JACK: Black Jack card game. Player vs. Dealer. Try to get 21 or below. West College-KOOL P<?OL: Player h~ts cue .ball t~ward target ball. Target ball has com on top. If com falls m designated area player wins. ' North Colleg~DAR:r ~ROW: Player t~rows darts at targ{lts (faculty adinmlStratlon pictures) and to wm, must bit their heads. · North 3rd & 4th ?Ioors-~IG SIX WHEEL: Player puts money on . numbers, wheel1s spun, if number comes up then P.layer wins. · Davidson 3rd Floor-CAN SMASH: Player hits empty beer can with sl~dge hammer. If can is smashed below a certain point, player wms a quart of beer. · , Fox North and South 2nd Floor-CAN KNOCK DOWN: Player th_rows bean bags at target and must knock down all the cans to wm. · Rich~on~ 4th Flo~r-sH~FLE BALL: Player must knock down tel! pms m two tr1es to wm. South 3rd Floor-8TAND IT: Player uses·'•'fishing pole\ to try to stand beer bottle upright to win. Davidson North 3rd Floor-PIE THROW: Player throws whipped cream tray at human targets' head to win. Fox South 1st Floor-WATER BALLOON THROW: Player throws water balloons at human target's head. · ·Davidson North 2nd Floor-COIN TOSS: Player tosses coin at target board. If coin lands in center of target, player wins. So~th 2nd Floor-COIN TOSS ON GLASS: Player tr!es to drop a com through a gallon jar to land on top of a shot glass. INTRODUCING HAPPY HO.UR Every Friday & Saturday 5:30-7:30 WAITRESS SERVICE APPEARING NEXT WEEK COLBY S~NO 9-1 SPONSORED BY: & 8 SiaP ia ibf; Wa~ agsilsi Budweise-r® KING OF BEERS® [)ystoo~

throw rolls vs. target area, heads. on player to down try to at a CO:N'OORDIENSIS,- January B1, 1988 Page5 -Freshman ~epresentative Statements- Steve Benson In our short time at Union College, most of us would agree that it is pretty good here. What then is the Student ·Forum needed for? \This body shall serve· as a muckraker in seeking out problems . . . \ This quote is found in our .student Forum's By-Laws. Our school does have some problems which must be considered by an .of us •. And for them to be dealt with, we need a good representative who has an idea of what is going on. From my work on the Housing and Food' Service subcommittee, I already see some of the major pPoble!ns that we face. Our lounges are in terrible condition and, in Fox and Davidson, they are freezing. Therefore, our only other alternatives are the Pub and Skellar. Our only social outlets then revolve solely around alcohol. Our different committees are offering us some choice, the C()ncert committee is doing well and the film committee presents a great variety of movies, with a reduction in cost. But what's in store? The · administration threatened the concert comQ mittee because of the recent problems with Kinks ti<:kets. J'he students must supp()rt the committee in order that they can keep bringing us quality concerts, and the film com- mittee is botind to hit financial troubles sooner or later, Reagonomics • are here. Our freshman representative must understand and want to over- come the problems of our college. I believe I am capable. Benson Doolittle Jeff Doolittle I enjoy living at Union College. As a result,__ I have developed a sincere interest in this school and would like to contribute whatever I can. I am concerned with what is- hap- pening around campus. As a Freshman Representative I would contribute many ideas for improvements in the school, in both social and academic life. I would also be open to the suggestions of my peers and would present them to . the Student Forum. Being an active Representative, I would try to improve Union for the benefit of all who go here. Maria Hermann Running for the positi<ln of Freshman Representative during the 1981-1982 scholastic year, I was requested to outline briefly the reasons why I would benefit Union College as well as the Freshman class and how I would attempt to better the school and the class. During my years in Gram- mar, Junior High, and High School, I have always been an active member of my schpors Student Government. Wllether it be as Secretary of Student Council in grade school, President of my Junior High class, or Junior Class President and Vice-President of the Student Council in High School, I have always maintained that the only way to i,mprove ones self individually, is through a group endeavor. This bet- terment can only work if one believes in two concepts: vitality and unity. It is these two principles upon which I wottld support my ideas. Being new students at Union College, the Freshman Class has the spirit and vitality to emphasize those outstanding features of . the school and the judgement to try to improve small imperfections. I would attempt to unify the class and institute projects to benefit both Union College and the Com- municty such as the elderly and deprived children. In addition to sorority and 'fraternity spon- sored projects, the Freshman class will hold an event for the enjoyment of all students. In summation, I've stated iny views and hope that with my representation the Freshman class will become a more .active and unified ingredient of the College community. Hermann Kaye Eric A. 'Kaye involved with and consider myself to be gooq at. With three years of activity in high school government as well as the social committee and dorm council here at Union I feel that I am justified in saying that I am qualified. For confidence in a representative, vote for Mary Phillips. Ph HI ips Midorneck Shari Midoneck Shari Who? 'l1he Freshman class needs a representative with not only the ability to speak out, butalso the ability to listen. As Freshman Representative I will always have an open ear to the problems and grievances of the class, and, as some of my friends would tell you, a loud voice to express these views. Union College gives it's students the opportunities to get involved in its policy making. Listening to my fellow students has made me realize that there I would like to take this op- are some constructive changes portunity to tell you about my that need to be made. I find a past, present, and hopefully major complaint among future endeavors in both school students is that although the activities and student govern· fraternity parties, the movies, ment. In high school I was the Skellar, and the Pub are chairman of the North Council, great, more alternative ac- a group formed to bring the tivities are needed. Saturday's ideas and complaints of the Winter Carnival and Kinks student body into the view of the Concert are examples of what administration and faculty. Union College needs to create From my sophomore t}!rough unity and enthusiasm among its my\ senior year I served as a students. If elected Freshman representative in the student - Representative, I would strive government. This job entailed to set policies that would add allotting funds to various clubs variety to our college ex- and- organizations, s~tting up perience. school social functions, and We are told that our college fund raising to support the years will be the best years of school. During my senior year i our lives. If this is true I want ta, was honored with being voted help make Union the best it \Most Likely To Succeed\. by could possibly be, both socially my graduating class. I was a and academically. member of the Medical Shari Who? Shari Midoneck a Explorers ' Program, and person who wants to be chairman of the conunittee to representative of her freshman find doctors willing to lecture. I class. A person who wants to have been active in politics make Union College as outside of school as well. I memorable to the class of '85 as campaigned for Smithtown the Class of '85 will be to Union. Councilman Ira P. Block, and Assemblyman Robert C. Wertz, both winners in their last elections. Since I have been at Union my activities have been limited to being a member of the Fox House dorm council. In the future I hope to be appointed to a position as Union Gatesman, and I am anxiously awaiting for the lacrosse season to oegin. I am looking forward to getting back into student government, and becoming an integral part of the system. I will be willing to listen to any ideas and complaints, and I will do my best to have the voice of the freshman class heard. If elected I know I will do a superior job, and I am asking for your support. Mary Phillips Like many statements, I could begin by giving you my qualifications or \campaign promises\ of what I will do if chosen. Instead, I want to emphasize my seriousness in this election. I have always gotten annoyed with the aparthetics that often manage to be elected. and then throw their responsibilities on others. This, I would refuse even to consider. I'm not doing this for. my \record\ but because it is something I have always been Jennie S. Lea Taking on a role as challenging as representing a new class of ambititious, demanding, and intelligent students, in a new environment is a taxing as well as a most rewarding job. I feel this job requires patience, diligence, and clear-headed thinking. Although a position in similar nature in high school does not match the responsibility needed here I believe that I have the 1 solid background in decision making and unbiased thinking that is so important. At the Packer Collegiate Institute I held several positions of importance such as being Captain of the Judiciary Committee. These were elected offices where I needed the respect of my fellow students in order to attain them. My ambitions for the Class of 1985 is to provide us with more alternatives for our leisure time. Although college is primarily a learning ex- perience, it is necessary to alternate one's literary education with one's emotional education and social growth. For example, winter term is notorious for its ill effects on people. The extra time we have could be put together developing .new friendships, enjoying new activities, and getting involved ·in new ex- periences. All of which I think I could be instrumental in initiating with your support. My main concern is what concerns you. As the student government representative for the Class of 1985 my sole ob- jective would be to try and improve our lives at Union. As representative for the 503 new faces on campus I will do my best to help our class reach its full potential as well as looking out for the best interests ·of the school. Lea Skinner Jon Skinner This isn't going to be a terribly long campaign statement. I've already written three others that were so overly rhetorical that I threw them out. TIJe main thing I want to , say is that . I care very much about being on the Student Forum. I care about making sure the Freshman Class has a decent say in deciding the issues that will affect them for the next four years. I'm ready to listen to what you think and willing to work .for what you want to achieve; with your support I believe I can represent our class very well. Chris Schaffer My purpose in running for freshman representative is simply to be able to become involved in campus politics and activities. There is no better way, as a freshman, than to be a representative of my class and be able to convey the feefings, thoughts, and ·opinions of my classmates to the rest of the college community. I feel I have enough confidence and ability to more than adequately fulfill my duties. I have considerable knowledge of the many and diverse· organizations on caiOpus and feel that I can successfully gather and convey their ideas to the Student Government Association. The Class of 1985 is entbusiatic and needs a representative who can effectively serve their needs. I feel that I have the qualities demanded and I hope you will support me. Shaffer Miller Kcra· Miller Hi'! My name is Kara Miller and as you probably can guess I am running for Freshman :Representative. Freshman Re]).resentative is an i,mportant position in Student Govern- ment.~ I would (along with another person) be represen- tingthe entire freshman class. I noticed while I was getting signatures for my petition that there was a general disinterest in school activities by students. Some students are dissatisfied with Union and even talk about transferring. Maybe they should not give in so easily. We are going to a great school! Union was.my first choice when I was deciding where I would go to school and I am thrilled to be a student here. If students are dissatisfied I feel that they should voice their complaints, instead of considering tran- sferring. I am running for freshman class representative because I want to be involved in student activities and be a part of the student government. I would like· other students to be glad that they are going to Union too. I am not going to rnake promises on what I will and will not do, but I would like to say if I were elected, I would do the best job I can. As freshman class representative I would be open to suggestions and would even welcome them. I want students to feel that they do have a say in student govern- ment. I want everyone to be able to make the most of their freshman Nagler Sandy Nagler 1 came to Union College with a strong desire for a sense of community, where people could feel comfortable with their classmates and professors, as . individuals, not merely as an identification n_umber. I want to spread this communal feeling throughout Union College, especially within the Class of 1985. I would like to serve as Fresh- man Representative for a number of reasons. The first is to develop widespread college and class _spirit something about which I feel strongly. In a class of approximately 515 students, it is important that there be a unified feeling among all its members; that everyone feels at ease with their classmates and proud of their college. we· are at Union to obtain much more than an education, we are here to learn about ourselves and our peers as well. A second objective, will be to improve overall conditions for Union students. I will present my own ideas to the Student Forum, as well as those suggestions given to me by my classmates. My final objective, for the present, will be to establish social functions ex- Continued on page '12 EASTER CRUISE April 10-17, 1982 • Nassau • St. Thomas • San Juan • 7 Days - R. T. Air Alb. to Miami • All Amenities • S.S. Festivale from $1064. All Inclusive SAN Jl)AN from NYC $199 one way FLORIDAfrom NYC $69oneway some restrictions apply Van Curler Travel Inc. Schenectady 6 I 1 Slate Street 3 74-3176 UN ION STUDE NT5-We book a II kinds of travel including terms, abroad, tri s home, etc.· ,.

- Page 6 CONCORDIENSISJ January !1J 1982 features ·. ,., ' ' \ . . ~ - ' '• -~ Historian Ruth Cowan will discuss \From Virginia Dare to Virginia Slims: Another View\ on Jan. 21 Cowan Speaks Historian Ruth Schwartz Cowan of the State University of New York at Stony Brook will discuss \From Virginia Dare to Virginia Slims: Another View\ on Thursday, Jan. 21, in SS016. Her talk will begin at 8 p.m., and all interested members of the campus community are welcome to attend. A reception will follow in the second-floor Social Sciences lounge. Cowan's visit to Union is sponsored by the College chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. In addition to her public lecture Thursday evening, she will address Catherine Clinton's \Women and America\ class Thursday afternoon and will speak to John Boyer's \Genetics and Evolution\ class on Friday morning, Jan. 22. At 1:30 p.m. Friday, Cowan will present a faculty seminar on ''Social and Tec:hnological Change\ in the Phi Beta Kappa room\ of Schaffer Library. All faculty members are welcome to attend. Cowan is an associate professor of history at Stony Brook. Her special field of in- terest is the history of science and technology, and her research and writing have focused on two- topics in par- ticular--the relationship bet- ween biological theory a,nd political theory in the history of genetics and the relationship between technological change and social change in the history of women. It's So Cold • • • By R.I. T. Staff It's been awful cold the last few weeks. The recent subzero tem_peratures have been the coldest of the century. It's cold all right, but just how cold is it? Cold at Union is sleeping through class, not regretting it and finding out at tbe neJ;t day your class was cancelled anyway because your professor couldn't start his car. Cold is a runny nose, sore throat and a line to see the doctor at the infirmary. Cold is .living in Davidson or Fox House, skip- ping brunch and dinner and not feeling hungry. Cold is flannel pajamas, another warm body under two blankets, and still feeling frigid. Cold is snow that never melts and frost that never clears. For some,. though, cold is just another four letter word. For the hardy Kinks fans who slept outside on the coldest night of the year, the subzero tem- perature seemed but a minor inconvenience. Their spirits were warmed by the con- solation of front row seats at the hottest Union concert of the year. For the runners who keep pounding the pavement around campus, cold is just another sweatshirt and an extra pair of socks. Their strength in the icy air is fueled by the glow of the runner's high. / For Chet Arthur, frozen in time, the frigid air seems not the least bit a bother. It seems doubtful whether Union's own temperature twenty-first President could tell of a cold winter. Chet stands firm, consoled by the coming rites of Spring; when he can put back gn his Campus Union T-shirt, resume his duty of guidng visitors into the Gardens, and once more watch Nott's sixteen sided wonder to a mountain of lush green ivy. Some of us gaze out our window, watching the sno.w fall and feeling the chill in our bones as we regret not looking into the University of Miami or San Diego State. For us, any drop in the mercury below 60 d~grees is cold enough. For others, though, things are different. For Kinks' fans, for joggers, for Chet Arthur, falling mercury does not mean falling spirits. For these hardier souls how cold it is is just not cold enough. ~~c1~ 464 State St. Schenectady, NY ~~ ~~ -.WE DELIVER-· 374·1888 Get Your Photos- In Now By TOM MEGERIAN Staff Time'·s awasting. You should be hurrying down to Mrs. Marra's oifice With your photos by Febr11ary 15. The Photo Club is sponsoring a winter photo contest for Union College students. The topic is \Winter at Union and Schenectady.\ Black and white, as well as color photographs will be ac- cepted and two prizes will be -awarded. The first and second place prizes will be $75 and '$25 respectively. In addition,... the winning photographs will be printed in Concordiensls for the whole campus community to view. Two professors from the ~rt Department. will judge the entries on the basis of three criteria: Appropriateness of topic; Photographic quality; and Creativeness. , Wait a minute! Just hold on!Woha horsie, woha! Did you even know that we had our very own Photography Club? Well you should. It's one of the newer Satire: clubs on campus, with its beginnings traceable to February of 19.79. Presently, under the leadership of. \The Big Three,\ Sarah McMahon, Mike Newman, and John Manuel, it boasts of a mem- bership of sixty plus students, beginners and experienced alike. So, tell us more, you say. Hold on, I'm getting there! Mike N ewrnan describes the club's raison d'etre (fancy, eh?): \The club's main pur- poses are to provide a darkroom, guest speakers, discounts and other events which photographers can partake in .. : . \ Th~ darkroom used bY the club members; equipped with facilities for both black and white an,d color · developing, was completed just last year and is shared with the Freshman Record and Union Views.Discounts include over twenty ~rcent off on most phOtographic supplies at Bern's Camera in Schenectady. In addition to the discounts and darkroom facilities, the club occasionally brings in professional photographers to lecture to members. Sarah tells of one such seminar: \Martin Benjamin, the photography professor at Union, has agreed to speak about his own work and about fashion photography.\ Other upcoming events (you mean there's more?), spon- sored· by the club include: a fashion mod'el photography session for those interested members; ''Darkroom lessons (which) will be given by knowledgable members,\ as · Johri puts it; and another photo contest in the spring. This baby will be a big one; with the en- tries being displayed for all to see, including our parental units, as the contest will . coin- cide ·with Parent's Weekend. And guess what! Membership is real easy. All you have to do is go to the next meeting and sign up. Whaesmore, you don't have to have any experience, just a lot of interest and a camera. So hurry up an<L join one of the fastest growing clubs in the ·east. How Cold Is It? By FRANKLINSCHNEIDER Staff pounds)? Most any form of exercise will do, although the musical accompaniment is Winter is here at Union,-in full optional. This recreation can force, and students are also be performed with a If the aforementioned ideas do not have any appeal at all to you., there remain other alternatives. For the weekend apothecary, mind altering halucinogenics may provide the remedy you ·seek. Besides making you feel fantastic, the overall sensation of numbness they give would make you oblivious to the cold all around you. Highly recommended are cocaine and opium. Due to the high cost of these \medicines it might be better for you to split the cost with· a friend (again referring back to the first item). scurrying through the snow, partner (referring to the last into their residence halls, paragraph) so long as you burn seeking warmth. Unfor- off those excess calories. tunately, what they find is that - their room is as cold as or colder (it seems) than the outside. Being as inventive as they are, Union students have proposed the following methods on staying warm. One of the first ideas that comes to mind is the use of the body heat of others to help stay warm. Why freeze alone by yourself, when you and someone else (preferably of the opposite sex) can stay . very comfortable. Now remember, this is just to stay warm, so avoid any questionable acts. Another suggestion would be exercising in the halls. Why not? What better way to get rid of those unwanted inches and pounds ( especialty those American Red Cross remember: If exercising of any form is not for you, why not try the pyromaniacal approach? Light a fire in your room! What better way to stay warm? Just imagine yourself sitting around a blazing fire, alone or with a friend (preferably). Be careful not to let your fire grow too large, because you still want your room to remain, just that it will be a lot warmer. Mar- \ shmallows are optional. As for fuel, books. ate highly recom- mended. If, by chance, your fire does get out of control and becomes a conflagration, raging throughout your dorm, do not· worry. The building itself should provide sufficient heat fl;)r many a cold day and night. Yes Union in January is a virtual Winter Wonderland. It is only too unfortunate that its student-residents remain ''in the cold.\ However, there do exist methods to stay warm, some of them previously being mentioned. If properly per- formed, they will provide hours of warmth and enjoyment (especially if performed with a friend, hint, hint). BLOODMOBILE Next Week .: January 27 i 28, 29 FACULTY- STUDENTS STAFF \Give The Gift Of Life\ WHERE: Strauss lounge, Carnegie Hnll TIME: 11 a.m. - 5 p.m. \BLOOD DONORS MAKE BETTER LOVERS\ Interested in Writing Features? ' Contact Judi at 61-5,5 ·or Box No. 1311

to tells (you , spon- a graphy lessons by as photo baby the en- all to coin- rship is do is sign have just a So of the in the ideas all to other the the you around are to the to split (again ry is a It is its \in do warm, being per· hours with a 29 II OONOORDIENSIS) January 141, 1982 feature Bob Leuci: ''Erosion of Morals'' By THOMAS CHING Staff · Page 7 Last Friday, the Union College Speakers Forum presented Robert Leuci, former New York City Narcotics detective, author and subject of Prince .of the ·City. He spoke of his .fall into · the \cesspool of corruption,'' his decision to write about · his experiences, and the .subsequent conflicts between his fellow officers and himself. \committed a minor fe)()ny, all the rest followed.'' Never- theless, Leuei maintained that \inside (you) know whae s right or wrong\ and false illusions are invented to ''deceive everyone but yourself, •: When questioned about the extellt of his involvement in these acG tivities, Leuci admitted lle did participate but \only because he \wanted to be a part of them (SIU)\ an,d besides he \respected these guys.\ sutc1de of his friend at th.e SIU, the fall .of SIU, 'his \ex:ile\ during the trial on Govern~r's Island, and the relocation of his famtly after the trial are indeed evidence of his courage. But as Leuci said, '''Most of us paid for our mistakes. ;It's just how much you pay.\ Has Robert Leuci paid enough? teuci spoke about his .fall into the \cesspool of corruption.\ LE:uci served in the NYPD for two years before he was selected for the \inner circle\ of the Special Investigative Unit. His duty at the SIU was to \investigate large scale crimes in order to draw attention away from the rampant corruption of ther judicial system during the late 60's.\ The ·methods em- ployed by Leuci and the SIU to apprehend the criminals were ignored because they were to \simply get the · job . done.\ Without restrictions the SIU itself became as corrupt and self-serving as the criminals they were after. A clear illustration of the corruption in the SIU, Leuci explained, was· \the $150,000 on the bed\ in- cident. It began after the SIU apprehended several Cubans in Harlem and confiscated their attache cases. Upon opening the cases, they found $150,000 in small ··currency. Several members then decided to divide the money between themselves and to free the criminals. Afterwards, Leuci found that he could \rationalize almost any activity\ because once he But then, a mem:ber d the audience asked, \Why did you write Prince of the City?'~ .Leuci replied that he wanted to reveal his side of the story and to ''1eave a legacy (a book a11d a three-hour movie).\ In ad- ditio.n, he wanted to focllS at- tention and prevent the •·•erosion force\ of young .of- ficers in the department. Others (especially Frank Serpieo ~nd Robin Moore, author of \The French Connection) have depicted, Leuci believes, the police as either \boors or thieves.\ He wanted to ~:ffer a \legitimate insight\ of ·hi8 own unit. My Best Buddy, Wilma Perhaps, Leuci's being compared ·to Frank Serpico (another officer who workell on and eventually exposed the corruption at the NYPD) ~as inevitable. Leuci admitted that he was guilty in the corruption at SIU and was therefore not to be compared to Serpic!J who was \undoubtedly innocent (of all crimes).\ In his own way, Leucj paid for his crime. His heroic attempt to expose the system, his &ub- sequent ostracization, the By PAULGIRSDAN~KY I was well along the Pabst Blue Ribbon Boulevard at the 'Skeller last Saturday night. Seated across the table .from me was my new-found football partner, Dave from Binghamton, and his girlfriend from Union. After all three .of us had each downed a sizable number of beers, she blurted out: \Dave is my best buddy in the whole wide world!\ Less than a microsecond later, I went back more than a decade to a time I remember all too well. I went back to the only time in my life when a girl blurted out to me \You're my best buddy in the whole wide world!\ She was a petite number, about three feet ten inches tall, and I don't think she weighed over sixty pounds. Most memorable of all, she had the prettiest eyes in the whole wide world. Her name was Wilma . Shaw. We were both six years old, and we sat nex:t to each other in Mrs. Rowan's first grade classroom at P. S. 173 in Washington Heights. We sat together in the front of the room because we were supposedly the Best and the Brightest of the Best and the Brightest by virtue of our speed in correctly doing the proscribed addition tables. For whatever reasons, we sat together at a pair .of desks right in front of the stern and wat- chful eyes of our middle aged Irish mentor. Blame It On Union! We had the outlook upon the world that only six year olds could have. The age of six is a transitional period for little boys. It is the time when boys realize that they are somehow different from the girls, but is is before. that long, spiteful period when we segregated omselves from the \silly\ girls who could amuse themselves for all the day with a simple jumprope or doll. It was long before the time of the rite of American Adolescence, when the boys fought with the other boys for I the attention of the formerly . silly girls, and with the girls to see how far they could get. In short, it was a time that we could be in love without con- By ERIC W. RUBEN Staff My desk was finally neat. Everything was in · its designated space. My ob- noXious-green blotter was clear of debris at last. Now I could work, Looking at my vast collection of books I decided to memorize the Greek vocabulary that was due the next day. I thought this to be an excellent idea since it was already past midnight. Upon finding the book, my hand swiftly took it from its resting place and put it to work. . Little did I know that something was about to happen that would change the course of my life. It was the .same thing that had plamted me before alo~;~g with countless others. It struck without warning. It took the silent evening and twisted it until it ached and brought f()rth a scream. I immediately recognized the faithful old fire alarm and took the usual minute to decide if it was only a drill. When r eon- eluded that it could be the r-eal McCoy, I put on my coat and locking the door to my l\O()m went downstairs. There they were, lookiilg so much like refugees, wearing pajamas under down parkas or in night gowns grace::; by hunting boots. These men and women met here every night at about the same time, one ()r two a.m. I'm surprised that we d!Jn't have refreshments ready considering how often these alarms are sounded. As usual, there were those who were absent from this great rendevous. Some were in other dorms for their own, quite often convincing, reasons. There were those however, who were hiding in their respective if not respectable rooms, hoping that the alarm would stop so they could -go back to sleep or whatever they were doing. It ended. I went back to my work. I wondered what would happen if there was a real fire. After being subjected to hun- dreds of senseless false alarms, there are very few people who take them seriously anymore. Perhaps it will take a tragedy before the administration calls drills less often and with more - integrity. Help Prevent Birth Defects- The Nation's Number One Child Health Problem. Support the March of Dimes RTH DEFECTS This space contributed by the publisher sequences. Wilma and I shared the outlook upon the world that only six year olds could have. We were both brought up in households with a lot of love, and the ravages of the outside world's cynicism had not yet struck us. We believe that the good guys would always win, and that the two of qs would have to maintain our goodness to su~ceed in our noble dreams and visions. From the first moment we spoke to each other, we were friends. The closeness of our friend· ship soon affected our mothers, who became close friends too, as they shared coffee and the. laments of alcoholics' wives. Her parents invited mine (as well as myself) to their New Year's Eve party to ring in 1968. As midnight came and went, we were totally convinced that 1968 would certainly be a fine year ... after all, we were both allowed to stay up until three in the morning the first night of tbe year. From then until the close of the year, every afternoon after school was a shared afternoon. I regularly went home with her and her brother Matt, whom I admired because he was in the fourth grade. We had cookies and milk and we watched Courageous Cat and Bugs Bunny and we learned how to play Crazy Eights. It was fun. It seemed natural. It also kept me out of the house at a :30 when my father came home from work, who usually bitched at me until the news came on at six when he would bitch at Lyndon Johnson instead. If nothing else, Wilma Shaw helped me learn to tell time, because I soon made it a habit to arrive home punctually at 6:01. Every Saturday we went to the Bronx Zoo and Botanical Gardens, escorted by one or both of our mothers. Being good neighbors, we always brought the Leopards an orange and the Seals an apple and we always felt sorry for the giraffe, because his mate had died and he was left alone. If nothing else, we would always have each other we agreed. Such were the happy times I spent with Wihna Shaw. Innocence •.. what a strange and overworked word. It seems to be used most by the pathetically nostalgic and least by those in its lucky predicament. In first grade, winter faded as spring began to shine. And shine she did, until the fourth day of April, when we found all the black men and women and children crying, and some of the white folk, too. We felt sad, because we were told that a great man died, whoever this Martin Luther King, Jr. was. We were happy, too, because we had an extra day off from school. We were thay young. It had an effect, however. We started to realize why the television stations .played somber music when they flashed on the screen the ranks and the names of the men who paid too high a price for fame. Then, in June, came atriple tragedy. The night that Robert Kennedy was.gunned down in California, we went down to Washington Square with our parents and held candles while we prayed and as we bowed our heads, we traded the news that we suppressed from each other for the last few weeks. My family was moving to West- chester, and hers was going to Seattle to stay . Two weeks later, when we were promoted to the second grade, we last saw each other. We have both seen incredible tragedies since then. I'm sure that she must have seen Mount St. Helen's and unfortunately I've seen Cohoes. But every once in a while, only when lwatch the sunrise, I remember the girl I shared so much with when I was six. I haven't seen or heard from her in fourteen years. I'm going to Alaska in the ·near future. I guess Seattle is along the way. But I don't think I will stop . . . because if I a'!ain saw her myopic eyes of charm . I would probably try to get her drunk. s:: .!!! ~ ttl 'tl .!: .J £ 0 0 .s:::: 0.

Page 8 OO.NOQRDIENSIS, .January 21, 1982 Editorials Letters A Fresh Vote • Freshmen will be asked to cast ballots for their representative to the Student Forum next week. It is a vote that carries more weight than many would realize. The decisions of the Student Forum have a profound effect on our lives on campus. They decide the entire shape of extracurricular activity on campus,. and address themselves to important student i~sues, such as financial aid, administration decisions, and social policies. Vote for your friends, if you sincerely believe that your friends wUl be dedicated to their positions. We an understand a·bout campaign promises and popularity contests. The best way to avoid making bad choices is to think a. bout the thousands of dollars that the Forum controls, the important policies that Forum contributes to, and the hard work and dedication that it takes to be a Forum member. If you, as freshmen, want your choices to be heard in Student Government, make sure that your representatives are serious, dedicated individuals. ************************************* Display Debate During the middle of last term, an issue arose that has once again reared its ugly head: the issue of the use of the display cases in the library. Hillel wanted to exhibit a Holocaust display in the library's display cases. The fact that they were nut a Student Forum funded (although recognized) organization was apparently used as the excuse for library director Jean C. Pelletiere to deny access to the display cases until after Hillel wanted to use them, hoping that the whole issue would simply go away. A similar conflict has been created with Amnesty International's request to use the display cases. It seems that the issue must be decided upon once and for all, to a void any further confrontations. The official policy on the use of the display cases in the library is, ·quite frankly, insensitive, unjustified, and childish. Those may be strong words, but the way in which the entire issue was handled warrants the use of such words. The policy states that, ''the display cases belong to the library,'' but fails to recognize the fact that the library belongs to the entire college community. All of us give to the library in one form or another, and all of us benefit from what the library has to offer. In a memo to the Student Affairs Committee dated January 8, Director Pelletiere explained how the display cases were originally used for library materials only. She then went on to point out how students were then allowed to use the cases, but when problems arose, permission was limited to Student Forum funded organizations. When that too failed to prove satisfactory, Ms. Pelletiere \discussed\ the situation with the library staff, \consulted\ with Vice President for Academic Affairs D'Andrea, and apparently handed down a decision that prevented student organizations from using the cases at all. If the idea that the library exists for the entire campus community is valid., why then does the solution to such a problem rest with one individual? there can be little doubt that faculty members could and would make excellent use of the library display cases, as would the many student groups. Under no circumstances are we implying that students should have control of the display cases just because it is our tuition that pays for its book-s, upkeep and its staff, but rather that a committee be established to develop guidelines that would give control of the cases to the students, faculty and library staff. The policy, as it stands, seems to be saying to the r--est of the campus com- munity, \they're our cases, andifyou want them, sorry.\ · Just as important as the use of the display cases is the fact that policy can be made by one individual. In an institution such as ours, the way to deal with a problem or an issue is not to hand down a sweeping decree that smothers the issue. There must be dialogue, particularly when dealing with _a vital part of the college like the library. If. Ms. Pelletiere accepts the fact that the library's display cases are valuable to students, why then is she dealing with the issue by not dealing with the issue and the students? How can Vice President D'Andrea suggest policy to Ms. Pelletiere without asking for considerable student opinion? · As stated before, we all contribute to, and benefit from what the library has to offer. In this institution of learning, why· restrict the ability of its populace to present intellectually sti-mulating information in a responsible way? It is ironic that the source of so much knowledge, the library, is so stingy about allowing others to use it as a vehicle to contri.bute to the growth of others. Besides, most of the campus should have the first page of Leaves of Grass memorized by now. ************************************ ''Ever.r cubic inch o_f space is a -Jniracle. !'' Walt WhitiUan Miracles· Dear Mr~~ I?elt~ierer . . . .. A: lu.ccis:s:,.::~~· :·:· For the longest. time my. T<~ ~he l!l<i.tQrs; impressioR of librarian&·· was · that .they.· weF.e meek creatures. with glasses. who .never. made trouble~ It seelll$ that you. are. . out to prove toe wrong,,foF once again, you are the center of contro~rsy. . . . ·\ .. , .. , ... ,o • ~\I:'IDtD 11>1 1 ~ ,, · . ~ld-' ··~-- :;; ~ . rL. €ontor .· , ·.\ · bltn~i~ ,. 0 .J~ i'.f. r~ . 0 ,,.,.lt!AJ ...., • . Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor Managing Editors Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors 'cltl L ~~· rill•cT'#.P~. Paul Grossman, . Naomi Blank ' Racheli. Mandel Julie Is~ro. Diane Pavacic Judi Lee Chervenak . Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards National News Editor CindyJ. Tenner Copy Editor D.C. Owens Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher Cartoonist David Neiblum Staff Joey Beckerman, Nonnan Birnbach, Sue Bloomberg, A.J. Brodsky, Thomas Ching, Mike Hunt, Doug Landon, Deborah Levine, TomMegerian, Rich Mintz, Betsy Modest, Peter Mobr, Brian Quint, Daniel Rosenfield, Eric W. Ruben, E.J. Sapir, Franklin Schneider_,~ Michael Sharp, · Andrew Sobel, Steve. Van Ness Business Staff. · Jennifer Aml:er, Evelyn.Gurdin Subscriptions ~.Wesley Harris, III Photo Staff Janet Guiliano, Robert Tang CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, 'Sidney, New York, 13838, (607} 563.:7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as tbird class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. . CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and uti.Uzes the College News Bureau (CNB).

Page 8 OONCORDlENSIS, Januaru 21, 1982 Editorials Letters A Fresh Vote Freshmen will be asked to cast baliots for their representative to the Student Forum next week. It is a vote that carries more weight than many would realize. The decisions of the Student Forum have a profound effect on our lives on campus. They decide the entire shape of extracurricular activity on campus,. and address themselves to important student issues, such as financial aid, administration decisions, and social policies. Vote for your friends, if you since·rely beUeve that your friends will be dedicated to their positions. We all understand about campaign promises and popularity contests. The best way to avoid making bad choices is to think about the thousands of dollars that the Forum controls, the important policies that Forum contributes to, and the hard work and dedication that it takes to be a Forum member. If you, as freshmen, want your choices to be heard in Student Government, make sure that your representatives are serious, dedicated individuals. ************************************* Display Debate During the middle of last term, an issue arose that has once again reared its ugly head: the issue of the use of the display cases in the library. Hillel wanted to exhibit a Holocaust display in the library's display cases. The fact that they were niJt a Student Forum funded (although recognized) organization was apparently used as the excuse for library director Jean C. Pelletiere to deny access to the display cases until after Hillel wanted to use them, hoping that the whole issue would simply go away. A similar conflict has been created with Amnesty International's request to use the display cases. It seems that the issue must be decided upon once and for all, to avoid any further confrontations. The oi'ficial policy on the use of the display cases in the library is, ·quite frankly, insensitive, unjustified, and childish. Those may be strong words, but the way in which the entire issue was handled warrants the use of such words. The policy states that, \the display cases belong to the library,\ but fails to recognize the fact that the library belongs to the entire college community. All of us give to the library in one form or another, and all of us benefit from what the library has to offer. In a memo to the Student Affairs Committee dated January 8, Director Pelletiere explained how the display cases were originally used for library materials only. She then went on to point out how students were then allowed to use the cases, but when problems arose, permission was limited to Student Forum funded organizations. When that too failed to prove satisfactory, Ms. Pelletiere \discussed\ the situation with the library staff, \consulted\ with Vice President for Academic Affairs D'Andrea, and apparently handed down a decision that prevented student organizations from using the cases at all. If the idea that the library exists for the entire campus community is valid, why then does the solution to such a problem rest with one individual? there can be little doubt that faculty members could and would make excellent use of the library display cases, as would the many student groups. Under no circumstances are we implying that students should have control of the display cases just because it is our tuition that pays for its books, upkeep and its staff, but rather that a committee be established to develop guidelines that would give control of the cases to the students, faculty and library staff. The policy, as it stands, seems to be saying to the rest of the campus com- munity, ''they're our cases, and if you want them, sorry.\ Just as important as the use of the display cases is the fact that policy can be made by one individual. In an institution such as ours, the way to deal with a problem or an issue is not to hand down a sweeping decree that smothers the issue. There must be dialogue, particularly when dealing with a vital part of the college like the library. If. Ms. Pelletiere accepts the fact that the library's display cases are valuable to students, why then is she dealing with the issue by not dealing with the issue and the students? How can Vice President D'Andrea suggest policy to Ms. Pelletiere without asking for considerable student opinion? As stated before, we all contribute to, and benefit from what the library has to offer. In this institution of learning, why restrict the ability of its populace to present intellectually stimulating information in a responsible way? It is ironic that the source of so much knowledge, the library, is so stingy about allowing others to use it as a vehicle to contribute to the growth of others. Besides, most of the campus should have the first page of Leaves of Grass memorized by now. ************************************ \Ever.r cubic inch of space is a miracle.'' Walt Whitntan Miracles Letters •• Unfair Dear Mrs. Pelletiere, For the longest time my · impression of librarians was · · that they were meek creatures . with glasses who never made · trouble. It seems that you are out to prove me wrong,.for once again, you are the center of controversy. Activity Expo A Success To the Editors: I'd like to express rny thanks to all who helped make the recent Student Activity E:rcpo a success. The clubs that had displays gained some new members and the sttuients who attended were made aware of As a. senior, I have spent the opportunities .on uampus. endless hours browsing over the Overall, everynne benefited. I library display cases while would especiallY· like to thank procr-astinating during the-> Bob Pavacic for the fine job he term. At the end of last term, I did in organizing the affair. I'm took ·tbe pl:unge and inquired as hoping that there will be · to whether I could design my another activities expo outside, own display fo-r Amnesty Spring term, fo~ those students International of which I am a still interested in getting in- . . member. I felt that I had a good volved in the , activities o-n idea for promoting a program campus. Thanks again. which Amnesty is sponsoring this term. My idea was never even beard. Instead, I was informed . that library policy bad been · changed~ and that no student displays were to be allowed. I was told that from· now on the cases would only be used to ·show off the library's collec- tions. It is· beycmd me how the library ·could disregard the students so blantantly\ The library is aesigned· for and primarily used by students. ·Denying us access to tbe display cases is simply unfair. In ad- dition, this policy decision was · made with no stu<fent or faculty input whatsoever. I have spoken · to a number of students and professors who agree that this is : terribly wrong. I only ask that you reconsider your policy, and .allow student displays. After aU, everyone is pretty tired of seven weeks af the Leaves of Grass. Sincerely~ Steven Well Sin.eer~ly, Lor-raine Marra Culture Shock To the Editars: · Having $:pent U1e past Autumn in EUr{')pe (Italy, ugh! ) it's really good to get back to Union Ci>Uege and to civilized. mode-rn society • WhatA.makes me so sure of my opihi{)ns about good old Union? Well, for one, there are those -Wonderful new lights whieh illumillate the North and South C()-llege- ar .. cades. Now tbose Europeans- mired as they are in tile ways of their barbaric past (Greeks~ Etruscans, Romans, and tbose 6ther savages whom Marw . Polo went amongst )-let things get dark with the coming of twiligbt. Have you ever been out of doors in the dark'? Things l{)ok different and that's not right, that's deceitful. How can the same formation of brick, window and stucu() ·look dif- ferent just because it~s dark? But thanks to the auth()rities at Union l wouldn\t have to be· _,t'llltD IN I~ • ~~6~ toncor ~,~~~'ft.).' .~ > ·:: ~ . ~~. ultnsts o~\~, . ·~~ .... f. ~~.r.~~ 0\\~ '\\ ~~~l L ~~- l\\•cTAD\· Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor Managing Editors Features Editor Paul Grossman, N aoiili Blank Rachel I. Mandel Julie Isgro. Diane Pavacic Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Chal\'is Richards Cindy J. Tenner D.C. Owens Drew Hurley, RobNorton Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Richard A. Sher David Neiblum Joey Beckerman, Norman Birnbach, Sue Bloomberg, Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors National News Editor Copy Editor Sports Editors Photo Editors Photography Consultant Cartoonist · Staff A.J. Brodsky, Thomas Ching, Mike Hunt, Doug Landon, Deborah Levine, Tom Megerian, Rich Mintz, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Brian Quint, Daniel Rosenfield, Eric W. Ruben, E.J. Sapir, Franklin Schneider) Michael Sharp, Andrew Sobel, Steve Van Ness BusinessStaff Jennifer Amler,EvelynGurdin Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris, III Photo Staff Janet Guiliano, Robert Tang CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, ·sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bw-eau (CNB).

lk' .el ~ic !.k. in ia is er 118 m m er m g, n, It, n, p, ss in II lg lt ·k IX 1e !: d ), OONCOBDIENBIS, January ~1, 1982 .,-:, ... ~~::;:::;.':$'.;;.:::~-f;.,..;'~·t':;; ·.?.:;.:::=:;'-,::~:::.: :~~,-.::.~~.: ::: •,•: :;,,-;:,,,,, •.• -.:::-- .- . .. . <.,\'. .. , ..• '\\\\'., ......•... , .•• ..,.\\'\ •.•.... ,Jan,MeGiver •.. O<, ...•• , Classo£'82 •·:;. . or ual Departmeilt. .. ........ ~2\ A Little Breathing Room By DANIEL ROSENFI·ELD Columnist The United States had always placed exceptional value on the concef)t of freedom .. Freedom, :if it is to be kept, must be protected. To this end the United States maintains arm eel forces. Recently, in the interest of maintaining the security of the United States, President Reagan increased military spending. Now, without question, there will be plenty of equipment. However, there is ·~ problem, (why else would I wrote about this subject?) the armed forces are still suffering from shortages of .personnel to utilize the equipment. Many of the soldiers just aren't very bright thereby limiting the reliability of the military (Quiet liberals, its true). Under- standably, those who are capable of getting themselves into a profession or a trade benefit by doing so, of course. the armed forces would benefit if more of these potential professional and trade people were to serve. However, as taught in economics, what's good for the person isn't good for the country and what's good for the country isn't good for the person. I must agree, where as it would behoove the country to have more of . the . potential professional and trade people interspersed among the ranks of the military, it wouldn't behoove the potential professionals and trade people, unless every one did it. If everyone served in the armed forces for a prescribed amount of time between high school and college, then it would make no difference to the potential professional and the student because he would still enter college with his high school class, just as he would under the present situation. The only difference would be that he would enter college several years later. . . The benefits would be twofold: F·irst, the armed forces would have no shortage of _Qersonnel, plenty of them being intelligent. Second, student soldier would have the opportunity to breathe between high school and college. This would allow the student to decide his future based on a little experience. The student would also learn discipline· and responsibility-a qaality that certainly would not hart. In case any of you amazingly sharp readers think that I am advocating conscription let me set the record straight; I am. I do not favor war. I believe that being prepared is the best deterrent possible. If, as a bonus, being prepared helps the young generations to become mature and responsible adults then by all means do it. letters to the editor must b·e typed and submitted by 7 p.m. of the Tuesday prior to publication. \Personal\ forms will be cvailable at the Carnegie B·ox Office. The charge will be 25 cents per form, one personal p_er form. All money wi II be donated to the United Way . ***************** . '

of I be to s r s r OONOORDIENSIS, Jan'I.Wry 21, 1982 - Page 9 'I -. - ~ .._,. botll.~t:Q9 :tbW,k~ .. P.l:»~t such me-tllat~s the. Nott .Memorial .. metiilphy$i(!al·probleu,s as. I Boy,. I bet 'if Angelo were still in walk by SotJth college on the ~ontrol he would have some way to Old Cllapel for dinner great. ideas about what to do (Thank goodness they moved with it. Maybe a swank boutique out that '!langerously inspiring · on the third floor, a disco on the hUlllanities professor and sent secand~ a whole new banquet him back to tile stuffy basement room on the ground floor. Who af social sciences; I, for. on~, knows? would rather be in a com- fortable place eating than in a comfortable place listening to the lectur~; .besides hets got an accent.) I want to be in a stable enviromnent 24l;lours a day so I can think: about important things llke how much money I could get in my first year as a nuclear engineer. And that new concrete in front lanMcGiver Classof'82 - SS016 FHm Fee Explained of Carn~gi{;)! What with all that Letters to the Editor: uninspired .c!lnerete work I was foreed to lo.ok at in Italy (that's. stuff's been arouod for two thousand years, you know) I always kept in mind . the beautiful and inspiring work jn conf!rete achieved by the designers-no-arthltS back here at Unii.ln. At a \Liberal Arts college/' human alms · come before· mere'· func~ tionallsm. And. Qh yes;~ the new heating. • pipe insulation. Now isn't that a perfect exarople of ~he prudence and ~arefUl planning of tbe Union College authorities. When it comes to conservation, SQtne peopl~ j)ust fly .off at. the · handle.:.lYfy~fatbatt\ Jor, example, . :;c~~ t~~~~ur:duk:!~!ur: thermostat to {18 j]lst because then president Nixon says there's an energy crisis. Now_ isn't that simply rash. But you can have faitl'l that your tuition dnllars aren't spent so foolishly. Instead of s11me. fo?lish t~mi. pnrary measttre, Unum wattea until the right idea and project was ready •. And the results? Well those big green swaths of green grass that eri.sscrossed the January eampus have been effectively . .reduced to only occasional. .lal'ge. patChes of green. Only one tiling still bothers I would like to clear up a couple of misconceptions that the Film Committee seems to have about why $6 an hour is charged for projectors and what it goes for. This fee is not only levied to the Film Committee but for any non-academic use. A · rate of $5 an hour is .charged for academic use.. The projectors in SS-4ll6 are not the only equip- ment with a rental fee. The money obtained from the rental fees is used not for the payment · of pr(}j:ectionists salaries,. but for the repair and replacement of equipment. Last. year, two new speakers were ${)len from SS..n.l:6 and had to be replaced at a eost of $339.90,. Approx:imately $600 a year is spent . in the. replacement of projector bulbs· in. SS.016. The Audi:o-Visual department wishes it did not have to charge any Uni{)n College organization for usage of equipment. But with a budget of only $2000 the. extra income is needed to· replace out of date equipment and to improve the facilities ftW · the campus community. Jane A. Webb Student Director of the Audio--Visual Department. Letters Editorials Commentary: A Little Breathing Room By DANIEL ROSENFIELD Columnist The United States had always placed exceptional value on the concept of freedom. Freedom, if it is to be kept, must be protected. To this end the United States maintains armed forces. Recently, in the interest of maintaining the security of the United States, President Reagan increased military spending. Now, without question, there will be plenty of equipment. However, there is a problem, (why else would I wrote about this subject?) the armed forces are still suffering from shortages of personnel to utilize the equipment. Many of the soldiers just aren't very bright thereby limiting the reliability of the military (Quiet liberals, its true). Under- standably, those who are capable of getting themselves into a profession or a trade benefit by doing so, of course, the armed forces would benefit if more of these potential professional and trade people were to serve. However, as taught in economics, what's good for the person isn't good for the country and what's good for the country isn't good for the person. I must agree, where as it would behoove the country te have more of the potential professional and trade people interspersed among the ranks of the military, it wouldn't behoove the potential professionals and trade people, unless every one did it. If everyone served in the armed forces for a prescribed amount of time between high schoel and college, then it would make no difference to the potential professional and the student because he would still enter college with his high school class, just as he would under the present situation. The only difference would be that he would enter college several years later. The benefits would be twofold: First, the armed forces would have no shortage of personnel, plenty of them being intelligent. Second, student soldier would have the opportunity to breathe between high school and college. This would allow the student to decide his future based on a little experience. The student would also learn discipline and responsibility-a quality that certainly would not hurt. In case any of you amazingly sharp readers think that I am advocating conscription let me set the record straight; I am. I do not favor war. I believe that being prepared is the best deterrent possible. If, as a bonus, being prepared helps the young generations to become mature and responsible adults then by all means do it. letters to the editor must be typed and submitted by 7 p.m. of the Tuesday prior to publication. \Personal\ forms will be available at the Carnegie Box Office. The charge will be 25 cents per form, one personal per form. All money will be donated to the United Way. *****************

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS,. JantuJry $1, 198$ ~rts & Culture ~ \ On Film: Time Will Tell POETRY REMINDER By JONATHAN ANDREWS Coiumulst Romance. Ideology. Russia is perhaps the only place, the only topic where the two shall meet. And, in a cinematographic age where swords have laser 1 >eams, and evil men fly through :nassive advertisements for · Coke, a movie such as Reds is a breath of fresh air. But Reds is not, of course, the first, or the best of its genre. If RedS can stand the test of time that David Lean's Doctor Zhivago has, then Reds, too, can be hailed as one of the greatest films of all time. Doctor Zbivago, the novel, was written by Boris Paster- nak, one in a long line of gifted Russian authors. Pasternak is perhaps unique, however, in that he is, depending on a censor's mood, both a Russian author, and a Soviet author. This posthumous distinction is critial. War.ren Beatty, the driving force behind Reds, would, on the other hand, ap- pear not to suffer from the same fate. But if anything is im- portant in Reds, it is Beatty's protest against politics, the intransigence ·of our system, and of the Soviet system. For Mr. Beatty is fully cognizant of the fact that he is a prisoner, too. He is unconsciously sub- j ected to the everyday American attitude vis-a-vis the Soviet Union, and for his picture And In This Corner ••• Don't Miss Dave Davies ByBOBFOX Arts Editor Dave Davies will start the show for The Kinks Saturday night. The biggest cheer always erupts when Ray appears on stage, and rightfully so, but Dave will be right in the thick of things, playing those magical chords in a way that churns the crowd into a frenzy. Hailed by Ray as the \founder member of The Kinks,\ Dave Davies is the musical twine that holds The Kink's music together. The Davies brothers, together with drummer Mick Avory, have, been the nucleus of the band since its inception in the early sixties~ 1964 brought success to a young band, with the hit single \You Really Got Me.\ Dave's guitar playing is the distinguishing characteristic of that song, and many other Kinks tunes as well. At the start, Dave's hard driving style was a focus for the band. His talented brutality on the guitar captures the spotlight in songs like \All Day And All Of The Night.\ Dave was one of the first guitarists to reguard feedback through the amplifier as an acceptable part of the music, a common practice in the 1970's and 1980's. In time, due to the immensely improved songwriting abilities of Ray, The Kinks found success in a less harsh s1mnd. Dave found success as well. \Death of a Clown,\ was his first single and his first hit. Over the next decade, Dave's potential genius was revealed only in snatches. In \You Don't Know My Name,\ \Strangers and \Tnlst Your Heart,\ Dave's strangled voice and eager guitar reveal little of the self, but much of the talented artist. In 1980, Dave Davies released a long-awaited solo albwn. It was received with critical acclaim. The ·songs are powerfully critical of society: \The world is ruled by science and money.\ They call the individual to action: Get out of that house-Stop watching T.V.\ And on top of all else, the songs are intensely personal to the po.int of being impenetrable: \I'm so much in love I can't explain.\ What should we expect from Dave Davies on Saturday night? He is defiant. He is not one to be figured out and labeled, especially by a writer who knows so little about him. His guitar playing has always been a step ahead of the times, and bis strained voice dares to reacb the highest notes. He is talented! Two excellent solo albams and a professional music career approaching twenty years attest to this fact. He has spent a lot of time in the shadow of his older brother, an undisputed great in the music world. The fact is, without Dave Davies The Kinks would not be. So on Saturday night, if you can peel your eyes away from master showman Ray Davies, glance over to the right side of the stage. Dave will be there, standing calmly, or cavorting wildly out to graze the front row. He will sing, and-he will play. And play, and play,and play. Pianist Featured Pianist Pola Baytelman will presE!nt a recital Friday, January 22, in the Union College Memorial Chapel. 'The program will begin at ~ p.m. and will feature works by Chopin, Bartok, Haydn, Schoenberg, and Albeniz. Admission is free. Baytelman, a Chilean-born pianist now living in the Capital District, teaches piano at Union. She is a graduate of the Chilean National Conservatory, making . her debut with the Chilean Symphony Orchestra at the age of 17. She received a Fulbright grant to study in the United States and was awarded her master's degree and artist's diploma from the New England Conservatory in Boston, where she studied with Russell Sherman. Baytelman has been .a soloist with many orchestras, in- cluding the Chilean Symphony, the Chilean Philharmonic, and the Boston Pops under Arthur Fiedler. Last October, she · opened the Schenectady Symphony season playing .. the Rachmaninoff Concerto No. 2. For more information on the January 22 recital, call 370~201. to be a financial success, it must appeal to this somewhat hoStile attitude. And Reds does. When Emma Goldman portests to Jack Reed in a Moscow apart- ment that Communism as practiced by Lenin delineates the difference between Czar and Commissar, we can laugh and just say \I told you so!\ We think the same as Jack Reed becomes more and more disenchanted with Comrade Zinoviev (brilliantly portrayed by J erzy Kosinski, the novelist), at the end of Reds. But the real point of Reds, sous-terre, is the entrapment of Beatty and us fellow Americans, in an American system where anything further left than Teddy Kennedy is considered politically deviant and socially dangerous. Beatty understands that for a country that prides itself on freedom, do we really come anywhere close to the Western European tradition of political tol~rance? These two films can also be considered as prayers for peace. Reds does not wish· to establish a supremacy for one type of political system or another. Reds basically wishes that men could ameliorate themselves into some sort of global political fraternity, an order founded and maintained - albeit this is quite utopic. And, in Doctor Zhivago Pasternak shares that quest for utopia. When, on a bitter icy day in .the Urals, circa 1919, a polemically psychosized Red Guard asks a haggard, torn, half-crazed woman whether it was Red soldiers or: White soldiers that burned her village to the ground, she simply whispers, \Soldiers.\ . - A REMINDER to a:ll interested persons: Michael Burkard, poet, wiH give a talk and present a reading of his work Today, January :n, in the Humanities Center at Union College .. Mr. Burkard will speak at 3:30p.m. in HU H5 and will read from his poetry at 8::00 p.m. in the Humanities Lounge. This is the second 'in a series of rea~Hngs sponsored by Idol and the English Department of Union Colleg.e. .TRIVIA .. IS COMING! WRUC's annual trivia contest is scheduled for February 14th, 21st, and 28th, Sunday even i.ngs from 9 p.m. to 12 p.m. IMPORTANT There will be a MANDATORY MEETING for all WRUC D.J.s on Monday, Jan. 25, 1982 at 7:30 p.m. in 4th floor Carnegie HaiL Everyone must be there! Attendan.ce wi II be taken WRUC TOP TWENTY 1. The Kinks 11. Adam and the Ants 2. David Bowie 12. Pretenders . 3 .. The Who 13. U-2 4. Pink Floyd 14. The Stray Cats 5. Genesis 15. The RoHing StoRes 6. The Go Go's 16. King Crimson 7. Blondie 17. Orchestral Manoevers 8. The Grateful Dead in the Dark 9. The Cars 18. Dan Fogelberg 10. Chicago 19. The Clash Tune in and be heard! 20. Altered lma.ges 111 fact, we'll even pay you $530 a month while you attend. That's in addition to paying for your full tuition. . It's all part of the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. How does it work? If you're selected for a Physician Scholarship-from the Army, ~avy, or Air Force-you're commissioned as an officer in the Reserve. While you' rEt, in school, you'll have a chance to serve 45 days .a year on active duty, gainihg valuable medical experience. After graduation. youwill serve three or more years, the length depending on the requirements of the Service selected and years of scholarship assistance received. As an Armed Forces physician you'll receive officer's pay and benefits. 'lbu'll also see a diversity of patients and have opportunities to use sophisticated medical technology. But most important. while you're in medical school we'll help pay the bills. For more information, send in the coupon. There's no obligation whatsoever. .... -- .. -----· I '!,es, I am interested in receiving more information about an Armed Forces Health I Professions Scholarship. I understand there is no obligation. (OM) I FOr more information mail this coupon to: I Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box C 1776, Huntington Station, NY 11746 I Checkuptothree: AnnyD Navyo AlrForceo I ~m--------------~~~----~------~--~se~~F (please print) I Addr·ess..--------------------AP1--- .I CiiY-------Sta,..,__ ____ zJp..- ___ ,f'hone( I Enrolledatt----------~----::schoo'----------1 I Togra-duateln* - - - -Degre.. - - : I • (Month,Year) -11 ..

5 ) f s CONCORDIENSIS, January ~1, 1982 Page 11 ~rts & Culture The Kinks: A Profile By STEVE VAN NESS Staff Union College Concert Committee & Budweiser proudly presen London 1964. The British music industry was on the brink of a revolution. The Stones were just beginning to get some serious attention with \Sa tis faction.\ The High :Numbers, idols of the Mods, were still playing at The Scene four nights a week. The Beatles were still in Liverpool, and in Richmond on the Thames, Mayall, Clapton and the Yard- birds were breaktng new ground in the form of high in- tensity diz-btlsting blues. Into this pre-revoluHonary music scene came The Kinks, a group of four young men from Muswell Hill, a \shabby and sometimes violent suburb of North London\ who stopped nearly everyone dead with a I ...... + ....... ., Theatre Schenectady ..----HORO'SCOPES--- ... AQUARIUS January 21-February 19 Keeping your cool is not always easy these days with . that quick-witted Leo in the driver's seat. Travelers from afar could bring disaster, so keep your eyes on the homefront where they belong. Boasting of your perceived popularity helps to explain why your ruling plant is Uranus. PISCES February 20..March 20 ~ . This weekend will be an ex- citing jamboree of ·events. Before you can enjoy the festivities do that work that you .always put off until the end of the term. Then, Pisces, you'll be ready to party. But remember, don't overindulge. ARIES March 21-April20 Thinking of tying the knot? Don't think so fast, Aries. Playing the field for two or three months might not be as scary as it appears. It's O.K. to be extravagant this week. TAURUS Aprn 21-~ay 21 Business ventures will prove fruitful at this time--if you collect old debts. Make those desperately needed car repairs with the extra cash. Romance with a Sagitarrian continues to be satisfying. · By CASSANDRA GEMINI May 22-June 21 RecoupE:rate from last weekend's star-studded ex- travaganza. Time spent planning social activities Will bring much praise in the · coming days. Bask in your own glory. CANCER June 22uJuly 23 Wheeling and dealing could be productive this week-all of your plans will come. to a head after the weekend. As a good release you might try dancing. But be careful Cancer, en- tanglements with the opposite sex may- result in a _rude awakening. LEO July 24-August 23 You've been in the background for too long, Leo. It's about time that you wore the crown of the kingdom. Take what's rightfully yours. tJse your sarcastic wit to show that Aquarian just who rules the jungle. VIRGO August 24-September 23 Now is a good time for travel, so don't let others inhibit your rendezvous. AJthough you n1ay be enjoying yourself, don't be selfish. Keep in touch with loved ones. LmRA September 24-0ctober 23 Don't give up on those Ne Years' resoluti.ons. Stick wi those plans for a new image. Make yourself visible Libra; that secret admirer may finall appe3r on the scene. SCORPIO October U.November 22 Now that you're back in the swing of things, let loose! Get that backed up .paperwork out of the way and BOOGIE! An admiring Cancer wishes to make amends, but use your wit and sarcasm to keep a firm grasp on the situation . SAGmARIUS November 23aDecember 21 Learn to say no to people, or others will continue to take advantage of your generosity. Now is the time to make those career choices you've been putting offfor so long. Romance ·with that handy Taurus soars. CAPRICORN December 22-January 20 Get things together, Capricorn. Don't force attempts to correct perceived past wrong-doings. Just relax, and things will work themselves out. Make plans with old friends this week~you may be pleasantly surprised. THE RATHSKELLAR welcomes WINTER- CARN'IVAL and THE- KINKS with the foUowing: Friday: 9-CLOSE MILLER & MILLER LITE . 50clbt. Saturday: 1 O·Ciose Budweiser 25c Drafts/$1.00 Pitchers ' Soda Both Nights 9-close 1 Oc Off Regular price rauchy song eqtitled \You Really Got Me\ and a carefully orchestrated \blaze of tasteless publicity.\ After following up the success of \You Really Got Me\ with \All Day and All of the Night,\ the Kinks were firmly established in the British music scene. Their sound was completely different--the combination of Ray & Dave Davies on vocals and guitars, MickA vory on drums and Peter Quiafe on bass was unbeatable- with the one simple riff behind \You Really G()t Me,\ the Kinks more or less invented power-chord rock. However, The Kinks also \blended all of the complexities of post-'Good Vibrations' music, meshing fairly ambitious vocalizing with tooth-andanails guitar work.\ With this combination, The Kinks continued' to turn out the hits, includqJ.g \Set Me Free,\ and \Tired of Waiting for You.\ However, after these first albums, Ray Davies' song- writing talents began to emerge, and the Kinks began to be known as much for the wry lyrics of their songs as for the hard rocking music behind them. The band began to produce songs such as \A Well Respected Man,\ \Waterloo Sunset,,; ''Dedicated Follower of Fashion,\ \The World Keeps Going Round,\ \I'm On An Island,\ \Ring the Bells,\ and \David Watts.\ In the late 60's, however, the band began to lose its following to the emerging British psychedelic bands. The Kinks began to decline in in- fluence, and by 1970, had gone three years WithoUt a ·hit, although they had never been more lyrically and musically strong. However, the band was attracting a large following in America, and in late 1970, scored with \Lola off of Lola vs. Powermen and the Moneygoround. After \Lola The Kinds moved to RCA and signed an American distribution deal. While the albums they produced with RCA were greeted with critical success, the band was almost totally ignored in TAPES FOR SALE TDKSAC90 $3.50 Maxell UDXL I C90 $3.75 Maxell UDXL II C90 $3.75 . Our ace II n AA\ Also. Alkaline Batteries 4 for $1.99 Fresh, Premium, and Genuine Ava i I able Now Ask for Bob 370-6762 England. T'hey decided to concentrate on the American market, and became a major touring act in the early and mid- 70's. Among the albums released during this period were Everybody's in Showbiz, with \Celluloid Heroes,\ one of the band's best songs, and the concept albums Preservation and Soap Opera, which reflected Ray Davies' growing interest in the theatrical aspects of ·mck. Ey 1976, The Kinks had decided that they were not moving forward in the music industry and moved to Clive Davis' Arista label. In early 1977, The Kinds released Sleepwalker, the title cut of which was a moderate success as a single in America. Later, after the disappointing reaction to Misfits, the band released Low Budget, which sold sur- prisingly well, producing \S11perman the band's first bit in years. Low Budget also marked the band's reversion t() the powerchording roek and roll formula which characterized much of their earlier work. One for the Road, The Kinds' third live albUin, was released in 1980, and helped to spark a renewed interest in the band. Live versions of \You Really Got Me,\ \Vit:!toria \Celluloid IIerQes,\ and \Low Budget\ received a grea.t deal .of American airplay and attracted new fans for- the band. The Rinks have just released an album entitled Give the People \Vbat They Want, which con· tinues the band's tradition of social commentary and driving music with songs such as the title cut and \Art Lover.\ The Kinks are one of the handful of bands 'that emerged from England in the mid-60's and that have managed to survive into the 80's. With a combination of witty yet honest lyrics and powerful music, The Kinks remain as \one of the rnost literate and thought- provoking bands ever to cross rock's threshold.\ Like The Who, The Kinks have come a long way from tlleir power- chording beginnings~although, as always, they remain an amazing live act. The Kinks have survived for one reason: tl!ey are among the greatest rock bands in the world, and tbough they have paid for their success, they've earned it by being the best. ATTENTION KINKS TICKETHOLDE RS The Arcade doors at Proctor's will NOT be open the night of the concert until 7:15. No one will be admitted to the Arcade without a ticket. No alcoholic beverages will be allowed in the theater. LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS Why not take the opportunity 10 study in london? A wide range of subjects and courses is available in Central London for students of the social sciences. Junior year ............. Postgraduate Diplomas One·year Master's degrees ..• , ......... Aesearclt Subjects include Accounting ~nd Finance, Actuarial Science, Anthro- pology, Business Studies, Econometrics, Economics, Economic History, Geography, Government, Industrial Relations, International History, International Relations, Law, Management Science, Operational Re- search, Philosophy, Politics, Population Studies, Social Administration, Social Work, Sociology, Social Psychol<>gy and Statistical anti Mathema- tical Sciences. , App,ication bla11ks from: Admissions Directorate, L.S.E., Houghton Strut London WC2A 2AE, England Please state whether junior yllllr or postgraduate,

Page 12 OONOORDIENSIS, January 81, 1988 Cu,ms Irrelevant (CPS)-As many as 45 per- cent of the nation's colleges may not be pushing students who get financial aid to meet minimum grade point stan- dards. The Government Accounting Office IGAO) surveyed 20 campuses, and found nine of them regularly kept handing out monetary aid to some students who faUed to meet mJ.nlmum academic requirements for getting the aid. The GAO report estimated the schools involved distributed over $1.2million to students who made unsatisfactory academic progress last year. The GAO's Frank Fulton volunteers, \Here's a student who's kept up a grade point average of 2.29, which is ac- ceptable, but he's dropped over half the classes he took.\ The student received some $5,400 in aid over four semesters anyway. Among the 5,800 student transcripts it examined, the GAO found some students with grade point averages as low as .11 still getting aid. Such cases were found on all kinds of 'Campuses. \Com- munity colleges were no more guilty of mismanagement than four-year universities,\ Fulton says. Fulton complains that dif- ferent federal aid programs have different academic standards, and that the various colleges that administer the aid programs don't have consistent ' minimum requirements, either. He says the American Council on Education intends to create a uniform set of grade standards, and that the U.S. Department of Education, which has ultimate res.ponsibility for federal student aid programs, ·may adopt those standards as its own regulations. Colleges could ultimately be forced to repay the mismanaged aid money, he points out. But \we weren't trying to find out about any particular schools. We were looking for nationwide patterns, problems with the program.\ One • ID (CPS)-If you know five women on .campus, one of them probably tends to \pig out\ by periodically on food, feel guilty about it afterward, and then punish herself by cr~h dieting or even inducing vomiting. It could be she's fallen victim Freshman Rep. Statements Continued from page 5 elusively for the freshman class which will serve to bring the class together on a regular basis strengthening our bonds. It is for the above reasons that I chose to run for Freshman Representative. It is for those reasons that I obtained one hundred signatures to place my name on t:he ballot. It is for those reasons that I hope you will elect me, Sandy Nagler, as your Freshman Represen- tative. Thank YDU. Lori Kaplan This afternoon when I was · peacefully enjoying my af- ternoon nap, the phone sounded and jarred rne awake. The voice on the other end told me that I had until7 o'clock to write my \election speech\' for Coli- cordieJlSis. It was minutes later when my mind registered the task that was ahead of me. Suddenly I had to sit down and figure out what had motivated me to turn in that list of 100 signatures. I guess some of it had to do with the fact that I · found my high school years enriched by being an active player rather than a sidelines. I've always felt that by becoming involved you can experience the satisfaction for adding to your community (as well as the blame when things go wrong): Having been a member of the Union Com- munity for five months now, I have come to the conclusion that like high school, it is more satisfying to be a participant than an observe. Having per- sonally been involved in a Student Forum Committee (Speaker's Forum), my Dorm Council, and the Greek system (SDT)', I have some idea of the responsibilities of Student Forum . representatives. They have the job of delegating money to the various Union activities, helping new ac- tivities get started, and working with the administration and faculty to attain the goals of the student body. While I can't promise anyone free beer, I can say that I would give Freshman Representative my best shot! (Photo unavailable at press time.) St,ress And the Suicide Epidemic· (CPS )-\Things were tough enough when I was in college. I certainly wouldn't want to be a student today,'' remarks Dr. Edwin Sneidman, a professor in UCL4's psych department. Indeed, student stress levels apparently have risen markedly since September, counselors on various campuses observe. They point to signs of in- creasing stress like more student withdrawals fram classes, packed schedules at campus counseling centers, more intra-student violence and, most tragically, more student suicides and suicide gestures. Colleges responding to a recent National Counseling Services Data Bank survey reportedthat 60 percent of their counseling appointments now involve complaints of student inability to cope with stress. \Stress-related illnes.ses such as anorexia nervosa are up,\ summarizes Dr. Marvalene Styles, director of San Diego State's counseling services. \There's a sharp increase in the. severity of problems. Students are worried. '.!;hey ~~ve a general sense of mstabillty and lack of being grounded. It's clear that counseling centers are going to have to shift and change to address these new issues .. If we don't, the result could be frightening.\ Counselors blame a depressed economy, increasing tuition rates, dwindling financial aid funds; and a tight job market for pushing student stress levels up this year. Many fear a coming epidemic of campus mental health problems if those financial pressures aren't eased soon. \We've sensed an increased anxiety and stress among students here,\ says Paul Ginsberg, dean of students at the University of Wisconsin- Madison. \Our counselors are seeing more students with in- creasingly more serious and intense problems.\ Student appointments at Michigan State's counseling center have doubled this year. Wisconsin, Arizona State and Washington, .among others, report smaller, though still significant, increases in the Four 'Pig Out' to bulimia, an emotional disorder which, according to a new study, has reached near- epidemic levels among female university students. At one time or another, 15 to 20 percent of the women attending college have had .it, the study estimates. The disorder - its literal translation is \insatiable appetite\ - makes its spfferer engage in episodic, manic eating binges. Those binges, says Dr. Craig Johnston, director of the Anorexia Ner- vosa Project that conducted the study from Chicago, usually trigger depression and guilt. The victim will likely take a laxative or even make herself throw up to purge whclt--she has consumed. A siege of merciless crash- dieting may follow, Johnston says. The individual will then go on another eating spree. The affliction has much in common with the more widely publicized anorexia nervosa. Yet bulimia is more difficult to detec, Johnston says, \because most women afflicted maintain their normal weight, in contrast to the drastic weight loss anorexia produces. There's no obvious emaciation.\ \Once a young woman gets involved in this vicious cycle, she definitely needs psychiatric help,\ Johnston stresses, noting bulimia can have devastating effects on vital body chemicals and the urinary and intestinal tracts. The doctor blames the in- creasing frequency of both ·bulimia and anorexia nervosa on \the cultural pressure to be thin in America. It seems to be a basic ingredient in our social ethos: If you're not skinny, then you're not with it.\ Most women \lack sufficient competition- channels in our society insofar as career and activities go,\ Johnston speculates. \Thus the challenge to be thin and beautiful is one of the few channels open to them.\ Johnston shuns publicity over his group's ongoing research, largely because he fears being deluged by more requests for help than he can handle - an indication of how widespread the disorder has become. Thursday, Jan. 21 1st Acf,;,l\tlARI,SA PALASITS 2nd Act-.,JUDY JUNK\ M.C. RICH MINT% Shows at 9 & 11:00 Tickets on Sale in Carnegie number of appointments. \Students are under tremendous stress,\ says Joanne Hanachek, associate counseling director:at Michigan State. \There's a general sense of powerlessness that students seem to be feeling in coping with life.\ Suicides among the college- age population have been in- creasing steadily for the last few years, according to the National Center for HeaUh Statistics. In 1978, the suicide rate for 18- to-24-year-olds was 12.4 per 100;000. By 1980 it had climbed to 12.8, and experts believe the rate will easily surpass 13 per 100,000 for 1981. Experts estimate there are nine suicide attempts .for every suicide death recorded, and suspect the nwnber may be higher on campuses. But colleges generally don't track such things \mainly because it would be very poor public relations to do so,\ says Marv . Miller, director of the Suicide Information Center in San Diego. \Because it is very difficult to document suicides, it is even harder to document suicide attempts.\ At the University of Idaho suicide attempts have gone up 30-to-40 percent over last year, counselors estimate. Don Kees, Idaho's chief counselor,. compares the stress buildup to a rising ther- mometer, with eacb added stress factor pushing up the mercury a little higher. \When the thermometer reaches a certain point, just about anything will make it bl,ow: a fight with a friend, a bad grade, or finding out that the financial aid has fallen through.\ In response, a growing number of •campuses are starting stress prevention and outreach programs. Faculty, staff and student leaders learn the warning signs of stress, and when to refer colleagues to professional counseling. other campuses teach resident managers in dorms to watch for students who grow withdrawn, moody, emaciated or who drink heavily. Wisconsin, which had over 60 student suicide gesttu:es last year, is sending out 6,000 letters to faculty ~nd staff members \reminding them that there are periods of time when people are under more stress and pressure, and detailing the resources available to help students deal with their problems,\ Ginsberg says. Michigan- State recently organized a special counseling team to treat campus stress. At San Diego State, where suicide gestures have increased by more than 50 percent, the counseling center recently held a \Mental Health Day\ to alert students to stress-related problems: .. The Campus Store Presents: \We've been able to prevent all sUicides,\ says San Diego's Styles, \but the number of hospitalizations has been high this year.\ Ti-tERE'5 A FVLL MOON TONIGHT PEANUTS@ by Charles M. Schulz VOU KNOW WHAf THIS MEANS? IT MEAN5 THEV FINALLY 60T IT FINISHED! t.IA UA J.fA f..IA !! GOOD JOKE5 ARE WASTED ON 81 RDS ! Coming Soon:\ Our Annuf:11. Paperback Sale! ·Watch for It in the Campffs Store

under says chigan sense coping ollege- in- last the for 18- per the .per are every and be don't poor the in it up year, chief ther- the a a are and and to dent 60 last and the help heir ntly the of f OONOORDIENSIS~ January !1, 198! Page 13 e Ices General Nottices Attention all students and Union affiliates; Free figure skating lessons are being of- fered at Achilles Rink on Mondays from 9:30 to 11:00 and Wednesdays from 10:30 to 12:00. Al'l are welcome whenever convenient! LOST~At Chi Psi party on Saturday 1-!J. tan, wool-lined, large-sized Woolrich· outer parka with black down gloves. Willing to exchang~ similar- type coat (tan) that is size mediwn. Call6659 or write Box 193. There will be a meeting of the Student Chapter of the Association for Computing Machinery, Monday January 25 in Strauss .Lounge at 8:30. All are welcome. 0~ fl}e Greek·fr~Qt . I«'IJI Party On' Jan. 30th' the \NativesH will be back at Fiji for another all campus blast. Also, stay tuned for another party on Feb. 6th when we host a sectional convention for Fiji's throughout the east . Union College FHm Committee Presents: tt•!li the HO'ITEST Frat at Faulk University good ol' Faulli U.% \A GRAD SCHOOL EDUCATION IN GOOFING OFF AND GETTING LAID!\ -HUSTLER \A ZANY, ROLL/ClaNG IIA.RD.CORE SPOOF!\ ~VARIETY' Tuesday, Jan. 26 7:30,9:00,10:00, 12 midnite No more than 200 tick:ets will be sold for any show and no one without a tick:et will be allowed in. Tickets on sale in the Carnegie BO'x Office. CAREER W()RKSHOPS THIS WE.EK Job Search Strategies for Summer Jobs Wed., Jan. 27 ~ 3: 30 p.m.- Career Center Careers in Public Relations and Advertising Wed., Jan. 27- 3:30p.m. -Career Center Area professionals working in Public\ Relations and Advertisi~g. will. discuss what their jobs are like day to day, how they entered the1r f1eld, and tell students about career options. Please sign up for workshops at The Career Center. Sessions are open to students of all ma·jors and class years!! ATTENTION SENIORS: Please pick up your Winter Recruiting Schedules in the Placement Office. For changes in recruiting schedules, contact the Career Center. 01) Tbe Otllerfro-Q Gay Group There will be an open discussion on the topic: \The Threat of the Right\ on Thur- sday Jan. 28 at 8:30 in HU Lounge. We will also be having a business meeting to discuss a trip, on Monday Feb. 1 at 4:30 in HU Lounge. For more info call Dana 6860 or our group box Union College Film Committee Presents , LESTER PERSKY.,, MICHAEL BUTLER \\'''\\ , MILOS FORMAN ,,.,,, RAGNI, RADO ... MacDERMOfS \HAIR\ -JOHN SAVAGE· TREAT WILLIAMS· BEVERLY D'ANGELO ·ANNIE GOLDEN CIORSEY WRIGHf· DON DACUS· CHERYL BARNES •• MELBA MOORE,RONNIE DYSON \\\'~~\'t: GEROME RAGNI.JAMES RADO ...... :~~~ GAlT MacDERMOT \'t:TOM PIERSON =ROBERT GREENHUT .... \':.'t. MIROSlAV ONDRICEK Sa.....,., MICHAEL WELLER\\\\''\\'\ TWYLA THARP ....,..., LESTER PERSKY\\ MICHAEL BUTLER D>td~., MILOS FORMAN A CIP Feature Panavision.;Techn~ lonvnal_, PictlllllSoundTracUbum on RCA Ro:c<ds & Tapes I [J[] J DOlSY STEREO J'\ Four-Track Stereo -~ ;:~-- IPGI Umted Artists Jan. 22and Jan. 24 at 7: 00, 9: oo, 11: 00 Please Note--F i I m will not be shown Saturday due to Kinks Concert SPEND AN INFORMAL DAY \ON-THE-JOB\ WITH UNION ALUMNI WORKING IN: .... Law Banking Medicine Dentistry Engineering Museum Work Administration Chemistry Research Commercial Insurance Engineering Management Land Management Resources Personnel/Labor Relations Vocational Rehabilitation Legislative Budget Analysis New York State Supreme Court Public Relations/Advertising Investments/Financial Planning Space is limited, so hurry! 0uestions? Call x 6176 SIGN UP THURSDAY & FRIDAY, JANUARY 21 & 22 AT THE CAREER CE~TER Volunteeri sm- Vol unteerism- Volunteer ism- VOLUNTEER OPPORTUNITIES COFFEEHOUSE NOW AVAILABLE! . College stUidents are needed to work on the Pediatric G floor in the gall)e room at Ellis Hospite~l All interested students please contact Mike Andolina, x6061 Volunteerism- Vol unteerism- Volunteer ism- Fri.., Jon. 22 8:30 p.m. -presents- OWL WOOD In the Cabaret Room Admission $1.00

Page 14 OONCORDIENSJS, January 21, 198! Traeksters Fall ·Jn Opener ECAC D.iv. H West ··Hockey Sta·ndings ByD.D. Sports Staff Saturday, January 16th, marked tbe beginning of the varsity indoor track season, and this season could prove to be a long one for the Union Dut- chmen. The varsity men's team dropped their record to 0-2 on Saturday by losing to Williams and Hanlilton in a triangular meet. Despite the toughness of the competition many Union competitors turned in fine performances. One of the strongest components of the Union squad is its depth in the weight events, which is provided by co-captain Brad Kline, Lynwood Wade, Mark Dunn, and Bill Rusch. In the triangular meet Lynwood Wade led the way for the Dutchmen, placing first in the shot put (47'3\) and 'second in the 35· pound weight throw (39'9\ ). The only other first for the men came from Union's one-mile relay team of Denny \Sid\ Contois, Dave Dellehunt, Tom Cutter, and Jeff Mikel. Second place finishes were turned in by co-captain Dave Dellehunt in the one-mUe run (4:37) and Contois in the 600. ·yard run (1:17). Perhaps one of the best performances of the day had to be Gary Wen- ner's effort in the pole vault. Wenner cleared 12 feet for a personal best and second place honors in the meet. After the meet, .Wenner eXpressed his self-confidence saying, \I think if I had my favorite pole I might have cleared 13 feet.\ Junior transfer nave Botta recorded a third ,place finish in the 2-mile run ( 10: 28) . Union's two-mile .relay .of >Dave Barrett, Bob Stehnack, Ken Holman and Dan Kleinman also placed third. Brad Kline placed fourth in the 35-pound weight throw (37'1\) and Paul Palaszewski took fourth in the 2-mile run (10:53), while freshman Tom Bennett captured fifth in the mire-run. The Union women's team fared better than their male counterparts as they upended Williams, while being trounced by . Hamilton. This is par- ticularly impressive since there are only two women competing on the team. Janice Glidden won the high jump (4'4\) and placed third in both the shot put (23'9\) and the 880-yard run (2:36.8). Meanwhile, Inge Stockman notched two im- pressive second place finishes. Stockman was second in both the mile run (5:52) and the 880- SPORTS HAPPENINGS January 21-28 Varsity Hockey Jan. 23 at Lowell 7:00 JV Hockey Jan.27 Middlebury 8:00 Varsity Basketball Jan. 23 Arch. Williams 3:00 Jan. 21 Bil\)ghamton 8:00 JV Basketba II Jan. 23 Kings Point 8:00 Women's Basketball Jan. 22 at Oneonta 6:00 Jan. 21 North Adams 6:;00 Jan.23 Dominican 6:00 Jan.26atVassar 7:00 Jan. 28 at St. Rose 6:00 Swimming Jan. 23at Kings Point 2:00 Jan. 27 at Albany 4:00 Wrestling Jan. 23 N.Y. Staie Meet . Jan.27Western N.E.College 7:00 Indoor Track Jan. 22 Colg., Platts. 6:30 yard run (2: 36.5). Both the varsity men's and. women's teams will be competing · against Division I powerhouse Colgate and Division II rival Marist College this Friday in the Memorial Fieldhouse. Field ·even~s begin at 5 · ~-m. and runnmg events are slated for 6:30 p.m. Spectators are welcome. ·Come out and support Union athletics! / Norwich Plattsburgh St. Norfh' Adams St. WiiHams Union Middlebury West.field St. Hamilton ll-5-0 10-4-1 8-6-0 5-4-0 6-5-0 2-2-1 5-8·0 4-7-0 )·687 .666 .571 .555 .545 .500 .384 .363 Women's Hoop Is Optimistic By KATHY BENTLEY Sports Staff Mter a disappointing season opener at Hartwick College, the women's basketball team has bounced back with a win over Russell Sage last Saturday. In the Hartwick game, Union's press and fast break worked well, but the team encountered foul trouble, causing four starters to .foul out by the end of the game. Cay Lynch had 22 points and Julie Miller pulled down 9 rebounds. Union edged out Russell Sal{e 61-55 in Saturday's game. Julie Miller and Anne Fitzmaurice had 16 and 12 rebounds, respectively while Cay Lynch led the team in scoring with 24 points. This year's team shows much promise with four players in double-digit scoring against Sage. Coach Barta has a lot of confidence in the team and feels that they have matured a great deal over last year's squad. Led by senior co-captains Carol Wrenn and Anne Fitzmaurice, they show much spirit and Union. Swimmers Start SloW ByK.C. Sports Staff The Union College swim team got off to. a rough start this season, losing its opening two meets. Union lost its opener to Hartwick by a score of 67-43. The Union swimmers were plagued by a lack of depth and losing close races in key events. There were some bright spots, however. Victorious was the 400 yard medley relay team of Chris Meyer, Chris Howd, Kyle Cotugno, and Tom Maryanopolis. Other first places went to Maryanopolis in the 50 Free, Cotugno in the 200 Fly, and Meyer in the 200 Back. Strong performances were also turned in by freshmen John Whalen, Mike Fox, Sally Carey, Sam Green; sophomores Steve Jacobs, Dave Weick, Ron Newbold, Sharon Pearl; and seniors Mara Beth Soltis and Joel Meyer. Although Union lost its second meet of the season to Hobart 54- 41, the team app.eared to swim better and more consistently, winning a few of the close r:aces they had lost in· the first meet. Sophomore Kyle Cotugno was a triple winner for the Dutchmen, winning the 50 Free, the 200 Fly, and the 200 Breaststroke. Senior co-.captain Chris Meyer was a double winner, winning the 1000 Free and the 400 Free Relay. Other members of the winning relay were Ron New. bold, Chris Howd, and Tom Maryanopolis. Also swiniiirlng well for Union were Steve Jacobs, Dave Weick, and senior co-captain Mara Beth Soltis. Union's next meet will be an away meet against Kings Point on Saturday, January 23rd. . unity. Barta believes Union'.s talent can lead them to victories over teams in tbe Capital District, and that the team can win the '82 Capital District Tournament. The team is looking forward to a winning season. Women's basketball will be playing a home game against North Adams tonight at 6 in what is hoped will be a crowded fieldhouse. If you can't _be there tonight, watch them beat Division II Dominican this Saturday at 6. Support Union Sports Check 5 on 5 Basketball Standings Our Prices A LEAGUE SIGMA CHI GOLD THETA DELTA CHI PHI SIGMA KAPPA RED BEAVERS DELTA UPSILON CHI PIS B.L.A.S. FlJI A SIGMA PHI RUNN ~N' REBELS Red Division GUNNERS CHI PSI DELTA CHI B LIGHTS OUT .. BLEAGUE THETA DELTA CHI B PH I SIG WHITE SIGMA CHI WHITE B SWISH Z.B.T. B w 2 2 2 2 1 1 0 0 0 0 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 0 0 L 0 0 0 '0 1 1 2 2 2 2 0 0 1 l 1 2 2 1 2 White Division Z.B.T. B THE HOOPSTERS THE INTERNS SIGMA CHI DIRT B 3rd FLOOR FOX SOUTH THE JOE MAMAS DELTA PHI CHI PSI Z DELTA UPSILON DOGS Blue Division FOXERS WARRIORS • YOBBLENORFS DELTA UPSILON BOMBE~S SIGMA CHI COMMANDOES PSI UPSILON SIGMACHI BLUE B FIJI B w 3 2 1 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 L 0 0 0 1 l . l 2 2 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 l 1593 Central Ave Colonie , N. V. 12205 869-0411 1626 Union St. SC:hanectady ,N. V. ~2309 377-0317 ~ t t . c I t ( s

1n'.s ·ies ital ~an rict is ing be nst in ied ere eat his OONOORDIENSIS, Jan'tULry 21, 198B Page 15 •• vert1me ·~·Athlete of the Week ByDAVERUD£N Sports Coi11Dl1list \Dying is no big deal. The least ·Of us will manage that. Living is the trick.'' Such were the words of Red Smith at the funeral of a famous golfer .. For over a half century, millions have read his words with in- tense interest. Last week Walter \Red\ Smith, the Pulitzer Prize winning sports columnist of the New York Times, died of heart failure at the age of 76. , Red Smith was the best sportswriter. Some say he was more than just a great sport- swriter, but a great writer who wrote about sports.. Sports is often scoffed at by many writers, but Smith believed he · was making a significant contribution. \Sports is not· really a play world. I think it's the real world. The people we're writing about in professional sports, they're suffering and living and dying and loving and trying to make their way through life ·just as the bricklayers and politicians are. This may sound defensive- ! don't think it is-but I'm aware that games are a part of every culture we know anything about. And often taken seriously. It's no accident that of all the monuments left of the Greco-Roman culture, the biggest is the ball park, the Colosseum, .. .the Yankee Stadium of ancient times. The man who reports on these games contributes his small bit to the record of his time.\ Smith's masterful use of the English language was equalled by none. . His sentences fit tQgether like the pieces to a puzzle. Because of ;his writing, Smith was accorded a great deal .of respect. During recent years he was very criti(:!al of the actions of George Steinbrenner; often referring to him as George ·In. Despite his criticisms the two men had a good rapport based on .respect. This was often the case with Smith. and the people he wrote about. Red :Smith was also a very influential sportswriter. He was the first columnist to propose an Olympic boycott due to Soviet aggressions in the world. He was also very critical of management~ with regard to labor relations, which has become front-page material in recent times. In 1976, Smith became only the second sports columnist to be awarded the Pulitzer Prize. This award was long overdue. Like many followers of athletics, Smith had his favorite sports. Horse racing was number one on his list. He felt .. that he could get more good stories around a track than anywhere else. Boxing, football, baseball, and fishing were other favorites. Two sports that Smith was critical of were basketball and hockey. He found them to be boring and shallow, and rarely allotted them any space. Despite his vast notoriety in the field, Smith hated special - treatment. He preferred to be a face in the crowd, and rarely took the intiative during mass interview sessjpns in the post~ game lockerrooms. He often felt more could be learned through listening. Ironically, his last column dealt with writing less. In a sense, it was his own eulogy about his life as a sportswriter. In a 60 Minutes piece, Smith claimed that his writing con- BASEBAll There will be a Mandatory Baseball meeting on Thursday, January 2 J at 6:45 pm held in the Block U . Room ·located in Alumni Gym. If you. llave any conflicts please contact one of us as soon as possible. Dick Salccrla Tom Collette John Lovett ***************************** Support ·union Athletics ***************************** Concordiensis. Super Bowl Pick -- Cincinnatti • 3Y2- • San. Fran. sisted of opening up a vein and letting tile words gush out. Those familiar with his work knew it was more than that. Many men of 76 are usually retired; yet Smith went about bis job with youthful enjoyment. I have never met Red Smith, but by reading his columns and listening to him speak I feel like I knew him very well. The journalism world will miss him dearly. So will I. By MIKE SHARP Sports Staff Athlete of the Week honors will be shared this week by Joe Wood of the Dutchmen basketball team and Joe Caruso of the Skating Dutchmen, who r--_ .......... ...__......._ _____ ___, both posted outstanding per- advantage as he was elected All-League in basketball, football, and baseball at Herkimer High School. Recently, Joe was drafted in the ninth round by the St. Louis Cardinals baseball team. Joe is a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity. Sophomore forward Joe Caruso of the Skating Dut- chmen scored a three goal hat trick as Union upset powerful Bowdoin, 5-4, in overtime last Friday night, Jan. 15 in Brunswick, Maine. Joe tied the game for the Dutchmen at 3-3 with a goal at 14: 15 of the second period. With only one second left in the game he put one in the Polar Bears' net to put the contest into overtime with a 4-4 deadlock. Joe won the game for Union with his third goal at 1: 06 of the overtime period. Joe Wood formances in the week ending January 17. Due to his fine play last week, sophomore guard Joe Wood was elected to the ECAC weekly honor roll. He opened the week with a five for seven effort from the field and four for four tally from the foul line in a tough 55- 52 Union loss to Division I Colgate. In the same game, Wood also had five steals and two rebounds. In his next game, an overtime 63-61loss to Albany State, Wood was high scorer for Union with 16 points. He was five for nine from outside and six for nine from the line. He also had a game high eight assists, in addition to a steal and three rebounds. In the 73-64 Dutclunen victory over University of Rochester, Joe helped his team break a five game losing streak with 21 points, eight assists, three rebounds, and two steals. Joe is an Economics major from Herkimer, N.Y. He used his 5' 11\ and 180 lbs. to their full A few days previous to the Bowdoin game, Joe scored two goals and added an assist in Union's 7-1 victory over Hamilton. Joe stands 5'8\ and weighs 160 lbs. He hails from Mid- dletown, N.J. and he attended the Northwood School where he was captain and leading scorer of the hockey team his senior year. Joe is an economics major · and a pledge of the Chi Psi Fraternity. Who will be first with a really inteltigent ·missile? . We pioneered both infrared and radar·guided missiles that can be fired success.fully in darkness, smoke, or any weather. Today we are leaders in LSI, miprocomputers, imaging infrared, and millimeter-wave technologies. If you have a BS or MS·degree in EE, ME, CS, or Physics, you'll find great opportunities waiting at our R&D facility in Southern California's San Fernando Valley. We'll introduce you to people, ideas, and jobs that could change your world. And ours. . lt could be you and Hughes Missile Systems r------------------, I I 1 HUGHES i I I L------------------J HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY MISSILE SYSTEMS !>roof of U.S. Citizenship Required Equal Opportunity Employer Sea your placement office for an appointment.

- - 2 til Page 16 GONCORDIENSIS, January i41~ 198i4 John Montanile grabs one ot his ten rebounds vs. Rochester HOC HEY Splits Pair on Road ByTMF IN MAINE The Skating Dutchmen with a 5-4 Division II record made the long trip to Maine this past weekend to face off against Bowdoin and Colby. On Friday evening the Bowdoin Polar Bears, a perennial playoff power, played host to Union in what would turn out to be a storybook ending for the Dut- chmen. Led by sophomore center Joe Caruso, the Skating Dutchmen were able to steal a 5-4 victory from Bowdoin. The heavily favored Polar Bears came out flying and tallied in the first period. Bowdoin's Ben Williams attempted to dump the puck deep into the Union zone, when the high, floating wrist shot that was directed to the corner was inadvertently deflected by a Union defenseman into the Union goal. The one hun- dred and ten foot shot, that goalie Mike Merlo had no chance on, sent the Bowdoin crowd into a frenzy. If the Dutchmen let the fluke goal trouble them they surely did not show it, as they came storming back on goals by Scott \Fit- zgerald and Gill Egan to take .. a 2-1 first period lead. The second period was played in a close checking manner by both teams. Joe Caruso, currently the hottest Dut- chman, had a chance to break the tight checking affair wide open when he broke in alone on Bowdoin goalie Frank Doyle. Doyle kicked out Caruso's drive and the Polar Bears gained a psychological edge. With the momentum clearly in Bowdoin's favor the Polar Bears were able to put together a quick pair of second period goals and take a 3-2 lead. Joe Caruso then tied things up when he snapped in a Joe Picano rebound at 14: 15 of the second period. Halfway into the third period John Corcoran put Bowdoin ahead with a fifteen foot - backhander that was just out of the reach of netminder Mike Merlo. Union could not get much going offensively in the third period and did not put the puck in the net until the last second of the period. With the faceoff to the right of the Bowdoin goal, Union trailing 4- 3, and only two seconds on the clock, the situation looked very bleak for the Union pucksters. Tod Fobare was abbe to win the faceoff and slide the puck in front of the cage where C~ruso tipped the puck over the sprawling· Bowdoin goaltender, as time ran out. Except for the twenty-five exuberant Union players and coaches, the arena was silent. The overtime period started immediately and the Dutchmen took advantage of the still dumbfounded Polar Bears as red-hot Joe Caruso completed his hat trick with the game winner only one minute and six seconds into the overtime period. Caruso's two goals, only minute and seven seconds apart, were probably Union's biggest goals of the season to date. Caruso's goals capped a truly incredible Union comeback, and when some of the players were asked to share their thoughts about the game, senior defenseman Bill Wall summed up the game best when he said, \It was the kind of game that you read about.\ Union had a tough time coming off the big Bowdoin win as they faced off against the Colby Mules a mere 15 hours later. The Mules were able to stave off another attempted Union comeback and notch a 4-2 victory. Gill Egan and Steve MacGuillivary were able to light the lamp for the Dutchmen in a game which was plagued by bad officiating. The poor refereeing resulted in four power play goals for the Mules. The referees evened out the penalties in the third period as Union dominated the final stanza. The· difference in the game was that Colby was ab1e to turn their power play op- portunities into goals and Union did not. Union now stands at 6-9 overall and a solid 6-5 in Division II competition. The Bowdoin victory will make a strong impression on the hockey followers throughout the Northeast, and should help solidify Union's playoff hopes. The Dutchmen must finish in the top four to .reach the Division II playoff at the end of the season. Union's 6-5 record marlts Coach Morrison's best start in four years at Union. In three previous campaigns, the Dutchmen have been 2·7, 2-6·1, .· and 1-8 at this point in the season. Morrison noted, \We have a lot more depth and talented players this year, and Ronn (first year assistant coach Ronn Tomassoni) has done an excellent job with the young players.\ (See the ECAC Div. II standings on page 14.) '. Bas,ketball- Beats Rochester By RICK SAPIR Spotts Staff In the past week the Union basketball team has seen action no less than three times. It was a week which saw Coach Bill Scanlon twice just miss a chance to become the win- ningest coach in Union baSketball history. He- finally accomplished thisfeat with last Saturday's victory over Rochester. The Dutchmen started the week facing Division I foe Colgate. Last year's game saw Colgate blow out Union 107-66, but this year was different. Union fought 1'tard to build up a 12 point lead with just three minutes remaining in the game, only to be overcome by Colgate's pressing defense. The final score was 55-52 in favor of Colgate. \l'he win raised Colgate's record to 5-8 and dropped Union's to 3-6. Three players from Union were in double figures, however the balanced Colgate scoring attack proved to be too much for the Garnet. Joe Wood led all scorers with 14 points, followed by Joe Clinton with 12 and John Montanile with 11. Tom Jones pumped in 11 points for Colgate to lead their balanced attack. On Thursday night, January 14th, the Dutchmen traveled to Capital District rivals, Albany State, a team which had already handed Union its first defeat of the season in the Capital District Tournament. The Dutchmen appeared to be better prepared this time and with incentives like the crew cuts sported by many members of the team, ..the Garnet came out strong. Fine rebounding by John \The Count\ Montanile and his crew, allowed guards Clinton and Wood to run their fast break. Union played superbly, and with 1:44 remaining in the first half, the Dutchmen led by a score of 31- 22. At this point, Albany took control and p~oceeded to run off eight unanswered points, Although Union still took the lead into the lockerroom, it was clearly the Danes which held the momentum. · The second half saw the· two teams play very evenly with the lead changing hands no less than ten times and neither teamextending its lead to more than three points. With2:41left inthegame,.Joe Wood hit one of two from the line to tie the score at 5~4. Each team then missed tough jumpers. John Jarosak's missed fifteen footer at the buzzer sent the game into overtime. In the overtime period Albany hit three foul shots before Union's Montanile answered with one of his own. Dan Croutier then hit a driving layup to put the Great Danes up by four. Clinton's shot from the top of the key narrowed the gap to two points~ Croutier's two sets of one and one's were answered' by buckets from Montanile and Jarosak. Albany then at- tempted to freeze the ball with one minute left, but Jarosak intercepted a cross-court pass with ten seconds remaining. As the clock wound down, Mon- tanile took a pass at the corner of the foul line, hesitated, faked,, and shot. The ball went through the net just as an official blew the whistle. Montanile thought that he would be at the foul line with a chance to win it, but no, the referee called an offensive foul on Montanile and the basket was disallowed~ The Danes easily ran off the last two seconds to win the game. Croutier was the game's high scorer- with eighteen points while Joe Wood finished with sixteen points for Union. The Dutchmen, attempting to break a five game losing streak and what appeared to be a jinx on coach Bill Scanlon, faced Rochester Saturday night on the Dutchmen's home court. Memorial Field House held the largest crowd to turn out for the hoopsters this year. It makes no difference if the people were there for the keg, which was won by Phi Sig for being the loudest section, or to watch the game for the excitement, because the crowd's en- thusiasm did play a large part in the game's outcome. An outcome which at last left the Garnet tasting victory. An outcome which made coach Bill Scanlon the winningest basketball coa:ch in Union histQry. Finally, it was an outcome whiCh saw the team play with composure for forty full mjnutes. Union scored the first four points .of _the game only to give up six unanswered points to the Yellowjackets. Joe Wood powered_his way inside at the 13:42 mark to give Union an 8~ lead. The next five minutes saw the score tied :llP five times. Dan Leary, who scored fifteen of his team high seventeen in the first half, kept the Yellowjackets ln the game. Leary gave ·Rochester the lead on a three point play with 3:53 on the clock. Rochester increased its lead to six on Zeke Louney's two foul shots at the 1:49 mark. However, baskets by D'Orazio, Wood and Montanile down the stretch allowed Union to into the lockertoom down by only two, 31-29. Union received the ball after the halftime and John Mon- tanile promptly tied the score with a twelve foot jumper. The two teams exchanged baskets for the next three minutes. Union pulled ahead on a Joe Wood to Montanile layup combination. Union started to work the ball inside, an aspect which had been missing from the past games. Withi:he inside game working, Union would not relinquish the lead again. Rochester then went into a pressure defense trying to force the Dutchmen into mistakes. It was not to be; Union handled the press well and Clinton hit an assortment of shots to help build the Union lead. Union went to the \guard on the line\ stall at 10:44 of the _second half. This worked effectively because Union did not turn the ball over under pressure and . they did make the shot when they had it. John Jarosak's slam dunk at the 5:42 mark gave. Union its biggest lead of the game. Rochester- would get no closer than 62.:f>5, the final score being 73-64. A deep sigh of relief could be heard by Scanlon's bench as the buzzer sounded. Joe Wood again led the Dutchmen in scoring with 21 points .. Clinton, Montanile and Jarosak collected 16, 15, and 10 ·points, respectively ... Freshman Ken D'Orazio contributed to the effort with. eight points. Fresh· · man Bartlett and sophomore Hogan also played important roles. Union's record now stands at 4-7. Union's Steve MacGu illivary looks for a shot against Hamilton. .... .... I1J .... \' 0 ... 0 i1 r: ct ... (1) ~ 10 u (1) !: 10 -, E 0 0 ..c: Q_ h s F n S1 tJ A h F tl t< o1 Yl st cc gl S< to p ht VI ar llE In th ex 0\1 ca tir ne AI dit WE db ph fe1 COl aCi tht Se1 ex rO< les I SaJ an tin tin: the twc wo: of

give • the 'ood the 18-6 saw Dan f his first :sin :ave tu'ee the l its two ark. lZiO, the 1 the two, L. QJ 1fter ro > ,fun- ro u ~ol\e QJ The c ro kets -, Ltes. >. .0 Joe 0 .... yup 0 .!:. I to 0. ~ect rom side not :o a :>rce s. It died .tan uild t to ll at rhis iUSe >Ver did d it. ;the its me. Jser ~ing JUld 1 as the l 21 and d 10 nan the esh· · 10re tant lOW I\ CXI, No. 12. January 28, 1982 \\\\\\tratton Speaks Ticketholclers waiting outside Proctor's Arcade prior to Kinks concert Saturday. Fans waited close to two hours before doors were opened. See details of concert on page 4. ~ AFS Conference Held By NORMAN BIRNBACH Staff students and their hosts-can that they could have been here evaluate the A.F.S. program. longer. Andolina said they Evaluations are held six months wished to sit in on classes. Last weekend, Union played into the exchange year, which \They felt the wal\mth of the host to a conference of A.F.S. starts in .l~te July. The 24 college,\ said Ms. Gross. students. A.F.S.--Ameriean students here represent.d over There were rumors that there Field Service-is a non..,political, thirty-five cQuntries including were problems, pr-imarily non-profit organization that was New Zeala11d, Liberia, Ger- because A.F.S. does not allow started after World War II by many, Italy, and France. drinking at any of its functions. those who made up the U.S. A.F .S., wllich used to hold Bar tenders at The Pub were Ambulance Corps. The Corps such conferences at Williams strict in proof'111g them. There had worked closely with the College, will pl\obably continue may have been a problem at French and British, and decided to hold conferences at Union, Tri-Delta where many were that they wanted their children which is ideally located for the staying, but Andolina stated \I to share the experience of each Capital District chapters. For don't know what happened.'' othe£\'s countries. In its first Union, these conferences are Meanwhile, with many good year, A.F .S. had only a few good public relations. In.· fact, evaluations, A.F .S. continues to students going abroad and a few noted Assistant Dean of be \one of the finest exchange coming to the U.S. It has now Stude~ts Mike Andolin~; a prqgtams for high school grown to include over 7,000 high number .of the students who put students,\ said Ms. Gross. What school age students, according up the AF .S. students: . were is especially important is that to A.F .S. Area Representative once a part of the program th$>Be involved, \learn to walk Pearl Gross. The conference is themselves. · · and· to talk together as citizens PAUL GROSSMAN Editor-in .Chief Saturday, ap- IJYO,XInlatE!I~ 50 Union College '{Y~;tu«len.t·s awoke, donned scarves and gloves to battle the elements, and converged on the Schaffer Senior Citizen's Center on Nott Terrace to speak out against proposed federal budget cuts. The forum for these grievances to be heard was the \Town Meeting\ called by Representative Samuel Stratton (D-Amsterdam) . The impetus for the student turnout originated from the Director of Financial Aid, Robert Massa. Mr. Massa in- formed CONCORDIENSIS of the meeting and asked the paper's support. He then ap- peared before the Student Forum and, by explaining the purpose of his request, he gained the support of the Forum as well. (See editorial, p. 6) The meeting was peppered with many personal requests from some of Congressman Stratton's cnnstituents. The bUlk of the meeting, however, was taken up with protests against the Reagan budget cuts. Some concerned senior citizens vehemently protested the cutbacks in the \Meals-on- Wheels\ program. Another group strongly protested the cutbacks that would severely limit tl,le capabilities of local job placement offices. Congressman Stratton dealt with most of the questions in basically the same way-he explained the mechanics of how the President, with a clear majority in the House, can push his proposals through. Director Massa was the first Union representative to speak. Mr. Massa stated, \As an held so that the students in- As for the students, they were of o'ur world,\ she added. . volved--both the exchange happy with Union, but wisheGI r --· -~.;.._ _______ ......,. ______________ , E t . . . . h · ....... = , Votes Tallied · X · I n Q U I S ·. ~-rS ~. ~~~~b~io~s were held on · · • Monday a)ld Tuesday in Car- . · : .. · :· negie Hall\for the positions of R I . d ;. · , Freshm.~R Class Represen- e p ace· .' .=. • .'. .. tatives to-; the Student Forum. Sharj Nidonick and Steven pered With and les~ -u;~n one p~r B~~Df were ele~t~d to the This past term, the Security and Safety Department began a new fire safety program. Integral to this program was the replacement of all fire extinguishers in the College- owned dormitories. The old carbon dioXide and water ex- tinguishers were replaced with new two and one half pound ABC type extinguishers; ad- ditionally, these ABC devices were relocated within the in- dividual rooms instead of being placed in the hallways. In ef- fect, the College has ac- complished two feats. First, the actual firefighting capability of the school has increased. Second, the movement of the extinguishers to inside the rooms has made the devices less of a target for vandals. Recently, the Security and Safety Department conducted an inspection of the ABC ex- tinguishers. Only nine ex• tinguishers were moved from their original locations and only two were discharged. In other words, less than three percent of all the devices were tam· cent were empty. · . ~·· ~. :PO~~~ns after rece1vmg ove~ 70 The Department viewsz·thii·~,;;pe~ent of the runoff election program as a success to date. votes. . . . With continued interest from Joe Cr1st~faro, Cha~rm~ of the campus, these investments the ElectiOns Committee, will not gp ti> waste and the reported that only ~00 freshmen program will continue to be f~o.m a cl~ss tota~mg 507 I?ar- effective. tlctpated m the first electiOn. The Department urges The num~er of voter~ dropped students witll any questions to 1~6 m Tuesday .s .. runoff related to fire safety to obtain a electiOn. These figures copy of \FirE Prevention and represent 39 percent and 29 per Control,\ a pamphlet cent o~ the Freshman Class distributed at the Security of- respectively: Freshman Class fice. This booklet provides R;epresentatlyes are two of useful information on fire- e1ghte~n votmg members that safety measures which students compr~e the Student F~r~m. can take to insure their well- Electtons for these pos1t1o~s being. · · were. postponed to create. a fan; Again, all students are electiOn whereby candtdatefl reminded that in the event of a fire in a dorm: 1. Sound the buildings alarm 2. Follow · established evacuation procedures 3.Notify the Schenectady Fire Department. Students mttst contact the Security and Safety Depart- ment after there has been a fire of any size. Steven Benson Shari Midoneck platforms could ·be printed in Concordiensis. The Forum is presently considering methods to prevent this difficulty from occurring in future elections. Monday's Election Results Jon Skinner Shari Midoneck Steven Benson Rob Israel Eric Kaye Jeffrey Doolittle Maria Hermann JennieS. Lea Lori Kaplan Mary Phillips KaraMiller Christine Shaffer Sandy Nagler 12.9 percent 12.3 12.1 11.0 10.8 8.1 7.3 5.5 5.0 4.5 4.2 3.4 2.9 Tuesday's Runnoff Election Results Shari Midoneck Steven Benson Jon Skinner 40.3 percent 30.2 29.5 American citizen, I am appalled at the efforts not only of the Administration, but of the Congress as well, to eliminate the federal role in education.\ ''Additionally, Congressman Stratton, do you see this con- tinuing resolution to cut the budget every step of the way as something we can expect for the duration of the Reagan Administration and as something Congress is going to stand for and support?\ Congressman Stratton responded to Mr. Massa's questions carefully and with typical political rhetoric. He cited two things of particular importance, however. Stratton explained that he did cast his vote in opposition to the student aid cuts, for .both this year and in Fiscal Year '83. He also told Mr. Massa that he was \more pessimistic than Y.9U need to be,\ because, the Congressman explained, Congress has decided to allow the cuts to go just so far and that strict limitations have been placed on turther cuts. Student's voices were heard, all saying that it is vitally im- portant for students to have access t() financial aid or their continuation at school would be jeopardi~ed. One older woman vociferously stated her reluctance to \Pay for someone else's kids to · go to school,\ stating, \Why don't you all go out and get jobs.\ Mr. Massa was pleased that the meeting was moved from its traditionally small room to a larger cafeteria and felt that it was \primarily due to the large presence of Union College students.' ' Asked about the Administrations attempt to cut aid programs still further in the next fiscal year, Mr. Massa reported encouragingly that, \I spoke to Mr. Stratton about this after our meeting and he Dredicted that there would be no further cuts in the FY82 budget for financial aid. He based this prediction on what he thought would be a common experience felt by his colleagues, i.e., student and parent com- plaints.\ Mr. Massa was quick to add that, \This however, is no time to case our letter-writing campaign.\ In closing, Director Massa summed up the meeting with the statement, \I am sure that Mr. Stratton got our message.''

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, Jant«Lry !8, 1982 Studies Abroad Offered Union Terms Abroad will hold its major annual information meeting for all terms abroad in the 1982-83 academic year on Thursday, February 4, at 4:30 p.m. in Social Sciences 016. At this meeting, prospective ap-- plicants will learn about the general rules for applying for the ter.rn abroad. Students will also be able to attend a session devotecl to the specific term in which tlley are interested. resident directors for each of the programs will als(). be on hand to discuss the academic side of the program. ,Each of the programs will have former students ready to The programs to be offered in tell about the program. Fonner 1982;.83 are: in the fall term, ..------------------------~-- .... 1 Bath, England; Rennes, France I . · d• and Florence, Italy. The winter Lecture 5 ate . ,~~::.r:::::..~u.:~ •• · \' \iiil Bogota, Colombia. The spring electroll. devices. A member ot · · .-tenn ~~oad ~ill be in Sch- Sigma Xi, he is currently , waebU!Sfihall, Germany. Garland M. Branch, professor of electrical engineering and computer science at Union, discussed \Comput~rized Tomography: Diagnostic Imaging With X-Rays\ on Tuesday, Jan. 26,at the College. His talk was sponsored by the Union chapter of Sigma Xi. secretary of the Union College . ~ - ' chapter. . . . . . In ~er, 1988, the College The Soc1ety of S1gma. X11~an wHl ;.Offer its unique. Study of hoi~ora~y o rg an1zat lO.n Socittized Medicine mthe U.S., dedi~ate_d_to the encouragement Englfmd, and Sw~den. Every of sc1_entlt1c research:- pure and·, student who anticipates going applied· The SOCI_ety . W~S . · abroad ne~\year should plan to founded at Cornell Umvers1ty m attend this-meeting. 1885, and the Union chapter, the · · The SAC Sub-Committee on Residence Life And Food Servke Wants to Know: • Do you like where you live? • Do you like the food you eat? • Do you have any gripes or praise for either the Food Service or Residence life? • How do you feel about the proposal to expand the student ·center? • Do you have any suggestions as to how to improve these services? This is your chance to a.ir your views and have input. Members of the committee will be available to hear your opinions on Friday, January 29 in Conference Room A, 3rd Floor · Carnegie f rorn 12: 30 to 2:: 00. · An adjunct professor at Union from 1967-19.72, Branch joined the College faculty in 1979. He received his PhD. from Cor- nell, is the author of 25 technical articles, and has received three patents. Among his special areas of interest are diagnostic imaging systems, X-ray image intensifier tubes, and computer modeling and simulation of third in the nation, was begun a ;;::.===================================;; year later. The Union Cellege chapter of Sigma Xi wHl also sponsor a talk Tuesday, March 2, by Dr. Thomas E. Lovejoy ofthe World Wiltllife Fund. Dr. Lovejoy will discuss \Can Science Save Amazonia? '' Nydegger Chosen ~rants committee. He has served o:na number of standing committEes as well. Rudy V. Nydegger, associate professor and chairman of the Union Psychology Department, has been elected president of the Board of Directors of the Hospice of Schenectady. Nydegger was elected in December at the annual meeting of Hospice. . Nydegger has been ~ctively work.ing on Hospice since the fall of 1977, when he helped push for legislation that would allow for the development of Hospice projects in New York State. He has served as second · vice president and first vice president of the Hospice board and has been chairman of its A member of the Union faclllty since 1977, Nydegger received his doctorate in clinical psychology from Washington University. He· is the allthor of numerous professional articles, many of them dealing with information processing .and game theory. In additio!l to bis work with Hospice., Nydegger was recently- appolnted to the Oncology Section in the Departnent of Medicine at Ellis HospitaL I I I I THE NORTHEASTERN ·I\II·BA Away to enrich your MBA experience! Those accepted into Northeastern's Two·'Year Full-Time MBA Program are eligible to apply for a position as a ·Graduate Assistant. The Graduate Assistantship offers academic or administrative work experience, greater access to administra- tion and faculty, and an opportunity to play a:more active role in the educational process. Competition is keen-approximately 40% of those enrolled in the Full-Time MBA Program are awarded an Assistantship. Assignments are usually within the College of Business or elsewhere in the University in an adminis- trative, teaching, research or tutorial capacity. The assistant- ships are ten to twenty hours-per-week appointments, which provide all assistantship participants with tuition remission for courses taken. For the twenty hour assista.ntship, a stipend currently of $4,500 per academic year, is also awarded. Full-Time Program begins in Septe~nber-Application deadline is May 1st . Deadline for Assistantship Program application is April 15th. For complete information on the Northeastern Full-Time ~nd Assistant- ship MBA programs as well as other Intern aQdPart-Ttme MBA pro- grams, call (617) 437-2719 or use the coupon bai<Jw. --------------------- Graduate School of BusinesS Administration Northeastern University 360 Huntington Avenue, Boston,I\1AD2115 Please send information on the Graduate AssistantshipProgram and other Northeastern MBA programs. F 1 Name __ ~---------------------------------- 1 Address---------------------------------:-- 1 I C1ty/State I School ____ ~------1nterested.inStarling Sept of __ I I I I I I I I I I Year I ..,,tlthlrt-,1 - I • ~ ) Northeastern University : I ....... IN BOSTON 1..-~- ... ----...--------·-:--------.J • I am.ne.sty internationa I of Union College Presents: Unio·n Coll·ege Amnesty ·International Week Thursday, Jan. 28, Strauss Lounge POSJ.ER SALE \Artists for Amnesty Exhibit~~ Thursday, Jan. 28, Carnegie POSTCARD CAMPAIGN Thursday 1 Jan. 28, 4: 00, Cabaret Room INTEl-LECTUAL CABARET , \The Polish Crisis and Human Rights\ featuring P.rof. Robert Sharletand Prof. Charles Gati Calder Miro & others Improve your memory. Order this memo board now--before you forget! SEAGRAM DISTILLERS CO. ~U AMERICAN WIIISHEY·A OLEND. 80 PROOF ·sevtr't Up ~rid ?UP ~retredtmar~olth~~h•n·l!pCompa\Y 0 1982

OONOORDIE NSIS~ January 28~ 1982 feature Curling at Union By MICHAEL SHARP -Staff · scoring in horseshoes, the only team that scores is the one whose stones are closest to center of the bullSeye. The strategy involved is in the accurate placement .of the .... · stones. A good curler can knock his opponent's stones out of scoring pQSition, place his own stones m the least vulnerable position, and predict where his stone will go after deflecting off an opponent's. Some of Uniol'l 's curlers try to place their stones. Page 3 There was a time when Reverend H. Laurence Achilles, an alumni of Union Theological Seminary, was director of Religious Education at Union College. It was at this ti.Jne that he coached the hockey team. The President of Union, Frank Parker Day, noted Achilles' devotion to hockey and he decided to intreduce bim to another ice sport-curlin~. Even thDugh Reverend Achilles never lessened his devotion to llockey, his interest in. curling grew. Finally, when Tom :Bonner became -President of Union, Reverend Achilles decided, to start. a fund raising drive to establish curling facilities. at the college. _ The reason the sport is called curling is because e:xperienced curlers can slide their stones down ice in a curved trajectory. This can be done due to the concave bottom of the stone, and the placement of a player's fingers. as they release the stone. The .physics involved is something like that of the curved trajectory -of a curve ball in baseball. As the stone is hurled,_ players called sweepers, sweep brooms in front of the .stone in order to reduce drag, provide a smooth runway, and enable the stone to go further. -Union- York Exchange But President .Bonner had ideas of his own. In addition to the curling facilities, he wanted a· hockey rink that would be sophisticated enough to handle a Division One hockey team. With the support that Achilles gave him and with the support of people that he himself hll;d gotten interested, he soon had what he and Achilles wanted- one· of the finest ice facilities in the country. Few people realize jllst how sophisticated Union's curling facility is. Marc Luxenberg, the student supervisor of the facility, believes tnat to enhance curling's image at Union all he has to do is get students to' visit the .curling facility and the sport will sell itself. As Marc has stated, \We have a beautiful facility, but it's just not used enough.\ Curling ls similar to shuf- fleboard. To score you slide your stone down an iced alley and try to advantageously place it on a bullseye, or \house.\ For a stone to score, its inner edge must be in the house. Similar to Supposedly, the goal of every Union curler .is to go to a \bonspeil or area tour- nament. Union College pays ~1 tournament and travel ex- penses for its best curlers. At a bonspeil, one is provided with dinner. drinks, and fine com- panionship. There is a wide variety of curling enthusiasts, and the age of players at bon- speils varies from .nine to runety. So listen Union students, stop by the curling facility under Achilles Rink, and sample the top of the line equipment, which is just waiting to be used. Remember, curling is a co-ed sport, and there is no age limitation. Everything needed to play, is readily provided for you, almost any time of the day. See pg. 11 for details of Union's last bonspeil. In the fall of 1982, Union College will begin a direct student exchange with the College of Ripon and York St. John in York, England. Every year, between three and five Union students will spend the fall term at York, while the same munber of York students will come here. At York, Union students will take two courses chosen from the regular York offerings, as well as a course in English cultural history created especially for foreign students. - ~ While York offers courses in a wide variety of disciplines, its particular strength is in English history and literature. Union students will live in College housing ( donnitories or flats) and will take their meals in College. ~n short, they will be regular members of the York community. The fee for the exchange, which includes tuition, room, board, and all fees, will be the same as the Term ~broad fee. Admission to the exchange, which is open only to jwliors and seniors, will be com-· petitive, based primarily on an essay about the student's goals for the term. Specific details on the program and application forms may be obtained from Professor Thomas in the Terms Abroad office. Applications must be complete by Friday, February 19. Successful ap- plicants will be notified by March 12. StatUs of Banned Clubs If you're a member. of the Scuba Club then you know that there hasn't been much diving activity as a club this winter- not even a practice session in the school pool. The same is true for the activities of the Fencing, Skiing, Outing, Stoneboat, and Yacht Racing Clubs. Last November 6, Deari Spring, the Dean of Students, health insurance for members of sports teams, it does not do so f()r sports clubs. The Dean, therefore, was concerned with protecting the liability and safety of both the students and the school. Blame It On Union placed a temporary ban on the activities of these clubs due to a question about proper in- surance coverage. The clubs have been allowed to meet and discuss plans but as one member of the Scuba Club stated, \We're anxious to dive and we can't.\ Some clubs have been more inconvenienced than others. The Skiing and Fencing Clubs find that they have been unable to prepare for upcoming competitions during the winter season. The Yacht Racing Club, a warmer weather activity, has not yet been severely affected. All the clubs, however, have been frustrated about when the ban would be lifted. In a memo released earlier this term, the school revealed that it has purchased liability insurance for coverage of any neglig~nce on its part in a stud.ent injury. Now the responsibility of health in- surance for a student injured at his own risk while participating in a club activity must be borne by the student himself. Members of the banned clubs must sign waiver fonns which acknowledge that before par- ticipating in potentially dangerous student activities each student has health in- Slll'ance of his own. The waiver assures the sch()ol that students are aware that they must assume responsibility for their own bodily harm. Hopefully, this will prevent any unpleasant misunderstandings between stndents and the school in the case of student accidents. By ERIC W. RUBEN Staff The other night, something horrible happened. It started several days earlier. A fr-iend of mine asked me to go to the genetics lab with her. lt was there and then that I first en- countered Drosophila. We walked through tlle cold empty corridors unt H we arrived at the half-opeB door. The room smelled. My friend said it was the incubator, but L knew what it really was. It was- the smell of death. She asked me to sit at the lab table while she took· o11t her flies. I honestly did not know what I was supposed to be doing. She brought over some bottles that were decorated with stickers covered with vv-riting. OPEN DOOR· BOOKS GIFTS CARDS She sat do:wn next to me and told me to look at the bottles. Inside them were a few, very tiny flies. She started to talk about putting them to sleep. She put some gizmo on the bottle and turned it upside down. My friend explained that it was an etherizer, that would put these flies tD sleep so they could be handled. I was taking this all in when I glanced at the center of the table. Death was there; in that mineral water-filled dish. There were hundreds of flies in that morgue. How could anyone do this? Were they mad? Who could kill a small, even possibly cute, fly? I then listened as she said, \Male straight wings. No good.\ She proceeded to toss the fly into the bath of doom. She a---136 Jsy Street Down town S che'nectad y 3415 ·27U) pretended not to notice but I could hear it. The screams of that fly .filled the very corners of my soul. I saw it look at me as if begging for help, but I could do nothing. In my seat, I was frozen by horror. That night I had this dream. I was awakened from my sleep by a large roar. A giant fly was lifting me over a large body of water. It dropped me, and I ·began to scream like a fly. Upon awakening my body was covered with sweat. There next to me, on my pillow, was a jly laughing wildly. Since then, I have not entered the science buildings. t tear down fly paper when I see it. I leave food out. Hopefully I will . be able to redeem my friend as well as myself. 464 State St. Schenectady, NY Good news, however, will probably be inevitable this week, for according to Lorraine Marra, Director of Student Activities, a solution has been worked out by the clubs and the Dean but is still waiting to be approved by the Student Forum. The question of insurance focuses on. the responsibility for health care payments if a member of a club is injured while participating in a school sponsored club activity. This question is especially pertinent to the clubs that involve physical activity in sports. Although the school maintains -.WE DELIVER- 374-1888 Mrs. Marra believes that once all the waiver forms are signed and handed in by the clubs the process of lifting the ban should proceed quickly and club ac- tivitie~ will return to nonnal. Blood mob He Today&. Tomorrow Strauss Lounge Carnegie Hall

.Page 4 OONOORDIENSJS, Jan'UIJ,J'y !8, 1981! ~rts & Culture Kinks lnKredihlei SENIORS: If you want your na~e on . your yearbook, sign-up in Student ~ctivities by February 15th. The cost is only 1 dollar. :If you have not bought a book buy one >- .a c. - 0 .I::. a. ByBOEFOX ArtsEdltGr wtth RICH TANNENBAUM aild FRED LEINFUSS Kinks Korrespoo.dents For hitchhiking to Boston two years ago to see the Kinks, kall us krazy. For seeing them thirtv times kall us KL:ltl.sts. F( r sleeping out in subz.ero koH- ditions, for tl1e secondtime, kall us (for the lack of a better word), koak~. But if you were at Proctor':-; with us on Saturday night. you got a taste of what the Kmks are all about. Just a taste tll()ugh, because The Kinks were n.ot at their best. They were, however. he;1d and shoulders above every other band that bas played at Union. Face it, they kept the krowd. on its feet the entire · show. The audience stood up before they appeared. on stage, and remained standing until after the last enc()re. It was an electrifying show, from Dave's first chord to Ray's final \ . . . gotta go home.\ The Davies brotilers led the band through over twenty songs, including some golden oldies and some recent rockers. From early in. their kat;.eer, now in its third decade, The Kinks played \You Really Got Me,\ \Till the End of tile Day,\ \Stop Your Sobbing,\ and' \David Watts.\ The rock-steady rhyth- m supplied by drurruner Mick Avory and bassist Jim Rodford made people j11Illp and the powerful punctuatbns of Dave Davies' guitar were inserted neatly into every hole. It is interesting to watch the progression of The Kinks' music. In one ligllt they seem to be going back t()tbeir•ilard rock roots. Many of the 11ewer songs they played were do11e in the forceful style of tile early Kinks, including renditions of \Get Back\ and \Twist and Shout.\ Noticeably absent f~om the repertoire of this tour are the more mellow early songs and, importantly, music from ·the 1970's. Little or nothing was played from albums such as SchooJboys in Disgrace, A Soap Opera, Arthur, Sleepwalker, or Misfits. Only a few 1970's classics, \Lola \Celluloid Heroes\ and \The Hard Way\ were performed. They were done with such exuberance and· were so well received that it is easy to see why these songs have served as kornerstones of Kinks • koncerts for many years. As if to show It can still be done, Ray sang \Art Lover'' and \Yo-Ye both from Give the People What They Want, in that beautiful, emotion filled style of years past. It was truly impressive. The majority of the show was a high energy rock session featuring The Kinks' two latest albums. Ray klowned and bounced around the stage enough to build up quite a sweat, he was dripping after the second song. But he didn't seem quite satisfied with himself. There appeared to be a little tension between he and Dave, indicated by the dark looks Ray kept throwing across the stage, but this kould be partially the product of intensified imaginations triggered by rumors of the past. Ray did have kause to be jealous, because his younger brother played one of the best concerts we have ever seen him play. Dave was a maniac at times and a craftsman at others. His passionate singing of \Bernadette\ was inspiring. His guitar n~ver quit, and his introductory solo to ''Celluloid Heroes'' was such a materpiece that it even drew a look of ap- proval from Ray. In short, the show was of a caliber that this school may not see again for many years, but it will not rate as one of the best Kinks' koncerts ever, Ray Davies proved again that his showmanship rates alongside his songwriting as tops in CALL FOR ARTISTS . A:tists residi~g within a 100 mile radius of Albany are rnv1ted tosubm1t proposals for a major two-year exhibition of sculpture along the west bank of the Hudson River in downtown AI bany, New York. Openi.ng September 11, DEADLINE Marol:• 1, 1982. Proposals may indude three- dimensional model.s, photographs, drawings or other ap- propriate modes. Curators: April Kingsley, Associate Editor of ARTEXPRESS Magazine and Jeanne Flanagan, sculptor and Gallery Direcbr at The College of Saint Rose. Send proposals, inquiries, supporting materials and resume to: N\.A.S.S., CSR Art Gallery, 324 State Street, Albany, New 'York 12210. Include postage and S.A.S.E. for return of ma.terlals. For further information contact Paul Mauren, Project (l)ordinator at (518) 454-5194 or (518) 454- 5185 • . today's music fi.eld. Dave Davies added one more per- formance to a kareer that has been bUndingly brilliant and has no end in .sight. He also provided some memories that will never he forgotten. Long live rock and roll, but most of all, God save The Kinks. I now. Ray D~vies, master showman and songwriting genius, with drummer Mick , Avory and bassist Jim Rod ford. lead guita-rist Dave Davie~ rocked with too much energy to be c_aptured on film. Concert Review - The Go-Go's a11d The Police in New Yorlc The Rest Is History By ROBERTARUBJNSTEIN and JULIE ABEL MAN The highway was backed up for a good three miles, and there were scattered people weaving in and out of cars looking for tickets. There were none to be had. The Police and the Go--Go's had just finished playing the Boston Garden, the Spectrwn in Philadelphia and the Carrier Dome in Syracuse. They had arrived in New York the previous evening and were backstage in Nassau Coliseum listening to another 16,000 anxious fans waiting (not so patiently) for the sh()W to begin. While carloads of people were emptying their last few bottles of beer and getting psyched for the show, the lights inside the house went down and the Go- Go's hit the stage. Unfor- tunately what they opened with is a mystery to the many who had lost track of time while caught in the midst of ticket scalpers, rowdie friends and a sea of empty bottles. But in any case, their last few numbers, Lost to Love, Our Lips are Sealed, and We Got the Beat (all off Beauty and the Beat) kept the crowd bopping around and set the mood for what was to be one of the best shows the Police have given. Around 9:15 the house lights once again went down and the shouts of the crowd verged on hysteria. Sting, Copeland and Summers ran out on stage followed by their back-ups, and the show began. They opened with Message in the Bottle, went right into Everythimg She Does is Magic and Spirits 1n the Material World without giving the crowd a chance to lose any momentum. After their third number, Sting introduced the members of the band, gave a warm hello to Long Island and . .. the rest is history. Their next number was the title track. Regalta de Blanc followed by Voices Inside My Head, The Bed's Too Gig Without You, De DoDo Do, De Da Da Da and Demolition Man.Following that, their light shOw began with a reggea number that Isn't on any of their albums. Caught up in the Rastafarian sounds coming from the stage and thinking that this is what it must be like in- side a kaleidoscope, the crowd alm()st exploded with ex- citement when Sting and Summers started to reany book IDOL HANDS The IDOL is coming. The IDOL is coming. ., on a five minute jam that seemed to be as much of a surprise to them as it was to us. From there they went into Walking On the Moon and the lights picked up again. Their next three songs-Bring on the Night, One World, Invisible Sun- -all off their new album, mellowed the crowd to just above tolerable, and when they broke into Roxanne once again everyone went wild. While no one had noticed, two hours had slipped by and the Police gave their farewells as they ran off stage-but no one was ready to end the night yet. The applause only got louder and louder until the Police once again hit the stage. Their first encore was Don't Stand So Close to Me, followed by You Make the Best of What's Still Around. Again they tried to leave the crowd, but no one was moving. After what seemed like days the Police once again returned for their fi,nal encore No Time This Time combined with a little impromptu number about Long Island and the evening was complete. The house lights went on and within minutes the high- . way was backed up for a good three miles ... The IDOL is coming, but only' if you write for it. The deadline is Februa.ry 6, and all written work should be sent to Box 2526. Make sure your name is written clearly on the first page only. All art work should be submitted at the Art Department office and marked as IDOL material. Sorry, but we cannot guarantee the return of any submitted work,. so make sure you have a copy of what you hand in. The IDOL is coming soon. c (J) ~ ~ c :J >- ..c 0 - 0 $:. a.

OONOOBDIENSIS~ January $8, 198Pl ·Page 5 ~rts & Culture Last Week at ·Cabaret: Live ;on Stage·: Judy Junk What a night at the Cabaret! One of the best shows I have ever seen. Rich Mintz was very composed and had good stage presence. He was able to get the audience's attention and was quite vivacious. Rich ·got right down to business (as an M.C. should) and welcomed us all to the Cabaret. Rich· had his own unique style in making. us all · feel right at home and it was very entertaining. He was friendly and funny and allowed - West Rappaport to join him on stage and tell us a dead baby joke. West was very relaxed on stage and quite good. All the wjne and .the beer glasses' were full and with Rich Mintz's voice which blended extremely well with Marisas. One of the outstanding numbers was when Marisa had everyone par- ticipate in· singing, Dona Dona Dona. There was a feeling of closeness and groups of people were holding hands and swaying to the music. Smiles were everywhere. Carole King's, \Tapestry\ and Melissa Manchester's, \Come in ·from the Rain\ were also superbly done. Cathy Aversa was ex- cellent on the piano, as usual, and was able. to add a special touch . to the variety of songs that Mari.sa sang. We had some ~ oldles but goodies w.l}ich took us down memory lane. We aU felt 0 c: (tJ. to happen. He succeeded and it was well done. Again a visitor appeared, Who was that masked man? There was a total transformation of the stage. All around me people were screaming, \Visine\. Rich was screaming,'' Anarchy from the Ukraine\-the energy was high, people were on the edge of their seats, and all of a sudden we hear ... \And the night.shall be filled with music\ ... and it was in an outstanding and professional way. Yes, it was really Judy Junk. What a name, What a sound! ! ! It was great. It was better than great. Everybody was dancing, moving, humming, clapping, totally mesmerized by the music, the facial expressions- by everything they did. If they go on as a group, they will make it big. Ed Sinkora did a fine job vocally and had a definite effect on the audience. Every motion he made was defined and polished and all inhibitions of being in front of an audience could not be found. He danced with the microphone in such a way that the microphone seemed to come alive. Each member of Judy Junk added their own talents to make a perfect mixture. John Lapi, on the drums, did one of the best drum solos I have heard in a long time. When it was upbeat- it was really fast, really rockin, really movin, and excellent ... When it was slow-it was really slow, really mellow, really intense, and exquisitely per- formed. The musical numbers were a blend of old and new. The words were precise, the music was powerful and well executed. They paused-they sped up, they stopp.edm·WE WANTED MORE-People were in the aisles dancing, twisting, shouting (especially · with the oldies . . . \Eternally Mine,\ \Stay With Me\ and Ymm.my, Yummy, Yummy\ were a few of their outstanding n11!J1bers. Thank you, Judy Junk, for sharing your talent with us. ·- ill c: (tJ • s 0 .... 0 a Marisa Palasits captivated the audience at Cabaret with her singing. opening words, the show was about to begin. The first act was superbly done. First, I, want to say a belated \Happy Birthday\ to Marisa Palasits. She performed beautifully and there was a warnn feeling throughout tqe Cabaret room. All eyes were on Marisa and she was cap-- tivating. Marisa seemed to enjoy and feel all t:he songs she sang which caused some touching moments. She moved around the stage and was able to get the entire audience into what she was singing. Her selection of songs· was in· credible and people were able to sing along with her. Carol Hanretta added a gentle and charming touch to the stage when she accompanied Marisa on guitar and vocals. Carol has a very soft, beautiful sounding like dancing freely without a care in tbe world when Marisa sang, \My Favorite Things\ from the Sound of Music. All in all, it was a job well done. I know I will never forget Marisa's 21st birthday and I'm sure no one else will either. The stagelights were up and refreshment time had come again. Our charming hostess was at the door and the waitresses were filling up the glasses once more. I also want to comment on the service, it was exceptional. Rich once again brightened the stage with his innate charm and this time set the mood in a totally dif- ferent way than the first act. Instead of a gentle smile as in the previou.s act, there was energy everywhere. Rich was forceful and he was able to prepare us for what was about Well as you can see, Cabaret was quite an experience. There were two moods created and · each left an impact. Both should keep up with their special talents and share them once again with us. Hopefully, we will also be seeing more of Rich Mintz in the . future on the Cabaret stage. There is a great deal of talent that Cabaret has to offer. What are you doing on Thursday night? Phi Delta Theta ' . ANNOUNCES ITS ANNUAL TACO and TEQUILA PARTY SATURDAY, FEB. 6th after the hockey game ..... The first cabare.t of t-he term featured Eric Ruben, pidured here, Be,th Baumgarten, who also sang and played guitar, and Tommy Higgins. I Cellist to Perform (CNB) . Cellist David Gibson of Albany wm present a lecture and performance ,of the Bach cello suiteson Wednesday, Jan. 27, at Union College. Sponsored by the College's Minerva Coiiliilittee, Gibson's program will begin at 7:30 p.m. in the Arts Building, room 202. All interested persons are welcome to attend. A noted soloist and chamber musician with degrees from The JUlliard School and Yale University, Gibson has per- formed to critical acclaim in major cities of the United States, Canada, and Europe. He has recorded for Columbia, Titanic, and Lovely Records. As a composer, Gibson has rece1ved two National Endowment of the Arts awards, a CAPS Commission Grant, and two SUNY Research Foun- dation fellowships. Gibson's program is offered as an introduction to a per- formance of the Complete Bach Suites by Dutch Baroque cellist Anner Bylsma, scheduled for 8 p.m. Friday and Saturday, Feb. 19 and 20, in the Union Conege Memorial Chapel. Bylsma's two-concert program is spon- sored by the Schenectady Museum-Union College International Festival of Chamber Music series. For more information on the February program, call the Schenectady Museum. The Union College Photography Club Presents: MARTIN BENJAMIN +Union College Assistant Professor of Art --Winner of Time-tile $5000 First Place in Bicentennial Photography Competition 7:30 Tuesday, February 2, Arts 104 Prof. Benjamin will show examples and speak about his art and rock concert photography. He will also show examples of his students' photography. In addition, Mr. Benjamin will speak about \Fashion Model Photography.\ A professional fashion model will be posing for a photo session on Thursday, Feb. 4, for all in- terested who attend the Tuesday talk. EASTER CRUISE Aprill0-17, 1982. • Nassau • St. Thomas • San Juan • 7 Days- R. T. Air Alb. to Miami • All Amenities • S.S. Festivale from $1064. All Inclusive SANjUAN from NYC $199 one way FLORIDA from NYC $69oneway some restrictions apply Van Curler Travel Inc. 'Qk--,r Schenectady 61 I Stale Street/ 374-3176 UNION STUDENTs-We book all kinds of travel including terms; abroad, tries home, etc. Orientation Committee ~ Applications. are available in the Student Activities Office .. 1... .~ ~ Ill u Cll s: Ill • >- ..0 0 0 ..c. a

Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS, Janoory !8, 198B Editorials Forum Without a Quorum Nine out of sixteen. That was the attendance of Student Forum members present at :their weekly meeting last Monday. Representatives from B.L.A.S. were there to discuss their financial headaches. Members of WRUC-~ecord Hop were there to clear up some particular points that Forum was curious about the week before. It promised to be a meeting where some important questions were going to be discussed. There was one problem though--no quorum. There were not enough members ·Of the Forum present to make of- ficial any decisions they would vote on. Fingers cannot be pointed. There is no way to single out particular Forum members who can be blamed, but, there is something seriously wrong when elected student representatives are not wHling to represent those who elected them. Solutions? None to be offered. Forum President Weldon Tu·rner was clearly embarrassed and could do nothing more than muster a meek apology to the students in attendance. Mem,bers of the Forum must make it their business to attend all future Foruin meetings. The situation now is both irresponsible and intolerable. Another example of the apparent apathy on the part of our Student Forum members can be seen when one looks at their blatant \all talk, no action\ approach to student government, illustrated by the situation involving the \town meeting\ called by Representative Sam Stratton last Saturday. The Forum heard a resolution two weeks ago supporting Financial Aid Director Bob Massa's plea to encourage Union students to attend the meet- ing and speak out against federal budget cuts that would affect student financial aid. The resolution was passedWlanimously by the Forum. Each and every member felt that Mr. Massa's proposed actions would gain strength with the support of the Forum. When _the time came to take action, however, there was not one single member of the Forum at the town meeting. These are our student leaders, our elected officials. The Forum obviously thought it important enough to pass as official resolution supporting the action, why then was it not important enough for even one member of the 'Forum to show up? If Forum members themselves do not feel that their decisions are important ·enough to acton, why, then, should anyone else? The frustrating thing to consider is that the Forum has been doing a solid, responsible job as a whole this past year. As compared to the fiascos of last year's Forum, the differences are like night and day. Why such a sudden change? Forum has been taking such strong strides this year, but now they appear to be coming to a screeching halt. , Forum 'members must realize the importance of their positions. They are responsible for the entire shape of extra-curricular activities here at Union. Forum has enough to contend with every week. What they don't need is President Turner being forced to call the roll every week. The students who were prepared to appear before the Forum deserve at least the consideration of having at least a quorum of their elected officials in attendance when they appear before the Student Forum. That is owed to all of us. If we cannot expect at least the interest and attendance of our elected officials, then Forum is simply a joke. Election By Minority This week an election for Freshman Class Representatives to the Student Forum was held. These representatives serve as the freshman voice in the student government of Union College. Time and effort should be taken to elect these individuals. A mere 39 percent of the class of '85 turned out to elect their representatives. Once the run-off candidates were established, only 29 percent of their peers chose to vote. Not even all of the initial voters followed up their good in- tentions. This loW turnout is notable in the fact that 60.5 percent of the class of '84 voted for its representatives last year. The Student Forum affects every aspect of this campus and one should feel that proper class representation is achieved. Election by-laws were waived to postpone the election to fit around the Concordiensis printing deadline. This enabled the voters to evaluate the candidates' statements as they were printed (filling over a full p!J.ge, em- phasizing the election's importance) in last week's issue. All available in- formation was provided to aid the voters and create a fair election . .- The election's low turnout does not do justice to the concerted effort made by the Forum, Concordiensis, and the Election Committee. The Freshman Class is a significant one, and the imput of the entire class is important. It is hoped that the new representatives will make their opinions known and thereby aid the Forum. Even without the full voting support of their fellow classmates, these officials have been elected. They must take their duties seriously, although the majority of their classmates did not take the time to show their support for their positions. \The death o_f democrac.r is not like(y to be an assassination .from ambush. It will be a slow extinction .from apath.r, ind~fference, and undernourishment.\ Robert Maynard Hutchins Great Books f 1954) Con cor Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor Managing Editor News Editor ·Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Pag~ Editors . >Jt~lltD IN .I>- ~~6J ~~~~~, , oR~'~ uttn~t.s' o~,j~ c:.; rclL~~· \\~lll&cTo\'1)'( • Paul Grossman, Naomi Blank 1 Rachel I. Mandel Diane P.avacic A.J. Brodsky Jucu Lee t,;hervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards . National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner Copy Editor D.C. Owens SportB Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Photography Consultant _ · Richard A. Sher •Cartoonist David Neiblum ·Staff Joey Beckerman, Norman Birnbach, Sue Bloomberg, A.J. Brodsky, Thomas Ching, Mike Hunt, Doug Landon, Deborah Levine, TomMegerian, Rich Mintz, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Brian Quint, Daniel Rosenfield, Eric W. Ruben, E.J. Sapir, Franklin Schneider..t Michael Sham .. Andrew Sobel, Steve Van Ness, Susan Wayne , Business Staff Jennifer Amler, Evelyn Gurdin j Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris, III Photo Staff Janet Guiliano, Robert Tang CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College~ Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York, i3838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. · CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and ·utilizes. the College News Bureau (CNB). ; . . .. )] I I -:-~

Page 6 CONOORDIENSIS, January !8, 198! Editorials Letters Forum Without a Quorum Nine out of sixteen. That was the attendance of Student Forum members present at their weekly meeting last Monday. RepresEJntatives from B.L.A.S. were there to discuss their financial headaches. Members of WRUC-Record Hop were there to clear up some particular points that Forum was curious about the week before. It promised to be a meeting where some important questions were going to be discussed. There was one problem though--no quorum. There were not enough members of the Forum present to make of- ficial any decisions they would vote on. Fingers cannot be pointed. There is no way to single out particular Forum members who can be blamed, but, there is something seriously wrong when elected student representatives are not willing to represent those who elected them. Solutions? None to be offered. Forum President Weldon Turner was clearly embarrassed and could do nothing more than muster a meek apology to the students in attendance. Members of the Forum must make it their business to attend all future Forum meetings. The situation now is both irresponsible and intolerable. Another examplre of the apparent apathy on the part of our Student Forum members can be seen when one looks at their blatant \all talk, no action\ approach to student government, illustrated by the situation involving the \town meeting\ called by Representative Sam Stratton last Saturday. The Forum heard a resolution two weeks ago supporting Financial Aid Director Bob Massa's plea to encourage Union students to attend the meet- ing and speak out against federal budget cuts that would affect student financial aid. The resolution was passed unanimously by the Forum. Each and every member felt that Mr. Massa's proposed actions would gain strength with the support of the Forum. When the time came to take action, however, there was not one single member of the Forum at the town meeting. These are our student leaders, our elected officials. The Forum obviously thought it important enough to pass as official resolution supporting the action, why then was it not important enough for even one member of the 'Forum to show up? If Forum members themselves do not feel that their decisions are important enough to act on, why, then, should anyone else? The frustrating thing to consider is that the Forum has been doing a solid, responsible job as a whole this past year. As compared to the fiascos of last year's Forum, the differences are like night and day. Why such a sudden change? Forum has been taking such strong strides this year, but now they appear to be coming to a screeching halt. Forum 'i:nernbers must realize the importance of their positions. They are responsible for the entire shape of extra-curricular activities here at Union. Forum has enough to contend with every week. What they don't need is President Turner being forced to call the roll every week. The students who were prepared to appear before the Forum deserve at least the consideration of having at least a quorum of their elected officials in attendance when they appear before the StudEJnt Forum. That is owed to all of us. If we cannot expect at least the interest and attendance of our elected officials, then Forum is simply a joke. Election By Minority This week an election for Freshman Class Representatives to the Student Forum was held. These representatives serve as the freshman voice in the student government of Union College. Time and effort should be taken to elect these individuals. A mer€ 39 percent of the class of '85 turned out to elect their representatives. Once the run-off candidates were established, only 29 percent of their peers chose to vote. Not even all of the initial voters followed up their good in- tentions. This low turnout is notable in the fact that 60.6 percent of the class of '84 voted for its representatives last year. The Student Forum affects every aspect of this campus and one should feel that proper class representation is achieved. Election by-laws were waived to postpone the election to fit around the Concordiensis printing deadline. This enabled the voters to evaluate the candidates' statements as they were printed (filling over a full P!3-ge, em- phasizing the election's importance) in last week's issue. All available in- formation was provided to aid the voters and create a fair election. The election's low turnout does not do justice to the concerted effort made by the Forum, Concordiensis, and the Election Committee. The Freshman Class is a significant one, and the imput of the entire class is important. It is hoped that the new representatives wiU make their opinions known and thereby aid the Forum. Even without the full voting support of their fellow classmates, these officials have been elected. They must take their duties seriously, although the majority of their classmates did not take the time to show their support for their positions. \The death o.f democrac.r is not like~y to be an assassination .from ambush. It will be a slow extinction .from apath_y, ind~ffere nee, and undernourishment.\ Robert Maynard Hutchins Great Books ( 1954) L ()t.···i·.te.rs '·-~- _ .. - ·,-··-~- ·.· -.-., :-.>;,-. l Fire Drill Counterpoint In response to ''Blame It On Union\. I . strongly believe that Mr. Ruben brought out some valid points in last. week's article. Although his information m~y not have been CDmpletely factual, it is unfortunately true that many of the students do not react to fll'e alanns with the seriousness it deserves. r, as a resident at West, do not ap.. pr~ciate being rudely awaltened in t-be middle of the mnrning when I have an exam later on the same morning~ In addition,. I believe that a substantial port1on of the alarms are set off by inconsiderate and·ar . im· mature students, Being an avid reader of Mr. Ruben's column, 1 feel that the present con~ troversy over his article is completely ludierous. Mr. Ruben 1 s articles are basically satirical and shnuld not . be considered anything more than satirical. .Although the Wol)~lil of his conclusion was .. somewhat unclear,. I strongly agree with his attitude and~-article. · competitif)n made all the dif .. ferilnte. The people ma11ning the booths· were e:~tceptionally · animated ,.hawking'; their particular games of dtance, and those who attended thoNlughly ~joyed themselves. All the proceeds ·were donated to Muscular Dystrophy. Again, speetal t:ttlmks to Student Forttm which provided funding, Gar)t'tlhadick for his hard work, and especially to Head Resident Advisors. Resident Advisors, and Hall Council Members for their time and efforts. Sincerely! David Wood Associate Dean for Residence Life Article Draws Controversy To the Editors: · I wish to address the article in last week's Coneordy entitled \Blame It On Union?'. I dtstwbed t{) see that the ad· miniStration was blamed for · num¢roua fire alarms ~'t'I'CtD IN 1 ~ ~I d\ C!Concor ~-~~ bitn~t~ o~~.~~c ~~~iT~~· itJVfCTI\.1>'<' Paul Grossman, Naomi Blank Rachel I. Mandel Diane Pavacic A.J. Brodsk.y Juru Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards Cindy J. Tenner D.C. Owens Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Richard A. Sher David Neiblum Joey Beckerman, Norman Birnbach, Sue Bloomberg, A.J. Brodsky, Thomas Ching, Mike Hunt, Doug Landon, Deborah Levine, Tom Megerian, Rich Mintz, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Brian Quint, Daniel Rosenfield, Eric W. Ruben, E.J. Sapir, Franklin Schneider, Michael Share. Editors-in-Chief Associate Editor Managing Editor News Editor Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Pag~ Editors . National News Editor Copy Editor Sports Editors Photo Editors Photography Consultant ·Cartoonist Staff Andrew Sobel, Steve Van Ness, Susan Wayne · Business Staff Jennifer Amler, Evelyn Gurdin, Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris, III I Photo Staff Janet Guiliano. Robert Tang CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388,. Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United · States. CONCORDmNSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). . . .

AnENTION ALL FRESHMAN ·REP. CANDIDATES: · Concordiensis can return your photographs anytime this week. Just ask Mrs. Marra in the Student Acti'vities OHice. OONOORDIENSIS, January 28, 1982 Page 7 Letters Editorials Editorial Response: Blame It On Us We, the Editors, feel that we must address ourselves to the statements made regarding Mr. Ruben's \Blame It On Union\ article that ran last week. First ofall, the facts should be stated for the record. Fire drills are called by the administration once per term per dorm. That is the legal minimwn requirement for fire drills, and that is the total number of drills that administration, or to be more precise, Security and Safety does call.¥ a rule, these drills are called for early evening. It would seem clear, then, that any other fire alarm is either an accidental false alarm, a deliberate false alarm, a mechanical failure, or a ,real fire. Mr. Rubin's concluding statement clearly implied ,that administration was. responsible. for the frequent alarms. This we will say categorically, is Simply not Dthe case. The information that Mr. Ruben based his statement on was inaccurate, and it was the fault of the Concordiensis editors that such a statement was not cheeked out thoroughly prior to its being printed. We must state, however, that Mr. Ruben did bring up some very good points, points that deserve restating. False alarms are more than sensele,ss, they are dangerous. What is even more dangerous is the possibility that people will come to disregard the fire alarms completely. This can be fatal. Blame for the numerous false alarms on campus must be laid upon those who cause them-not those who are ultimately responsible for our safety on this campus. INVITE YOUR PARE~TS & MAlE RESERVATIONS NOW!! For more. information, ca II Jane Wood, Assistant Dean of Students, x6176, x6043. A llsfofhotel-m<>tel accommodations is ava Hable in her office. 00 o .. o

.. . CONOORDIFJNSIS, January 28, 1982 Page 7 deliberately tripped by fellow students. Regardless <>f the ru.t~. e-ach alarm is an emerge11cy situation which endangers many people. Intentionally setting off Qo .alrro is a criminal offense which may b.e tried in Schenectady Pollee Court. As stud~nts 1 we, have a responsibility to try to reduce the number of alarms.· Turning someone 4n may be iiifficult but it also may save someone's life in the future. Perhaps it will take a t.ragedy before students stop pullitl~talarms and act with more integrity. . Jim Carrpll H.R.A., West College Alarms Not Taken Seriously In response to \Blame it on Unlon\: First {If all I shall pnint ()Ut that most of tbe firtl alarms on this campus are caused by the carelesSDe$S ··.and stupidity· of fellow students and not by the administration .. There is ocly . one admiq:istrative fire ('drillu per dorm each tenn and is set off ~t a r~nable hour\ in the early eveJling.. .. . · It is true that some dorms have many fire. alarms, often at inconvenient hours. Yes, a nll!Uber of these alarms are false) ~ut · durmg both this term and Fall oonn tbere w~re aetual fires in d(lrmst some of which were deliberately set. (I have had the experience of opening my dOOJ;\ to a fire bllrning in my hallway). Fortunately no ln~ juries or major damages r¢Sllltedt .anq our scfwol is. also· fnrtunate for not having a majnr fire, unljke RPI and· S]qd!nore, It is · a terrible eQnsequence that peol)le do not take tbese ·fire elarms seriously due to the reoccurrence of false .alarms caused by the students them* selv:.es~ Nevertheless, l shall continue to evacuate my dorm each time that alarm goes oft simply because I value my life as wen as othets. I strongly suggest the same fCJr all dorm residents despite bo.w futile it rn.ay seem. False fire alarms due to carelessness are foolish and quite annoyingt but tell that to tmrignoramus thatllets one off! Bemadette Albanese Residel'lt A~viser AnENTION AlL FRESHMAN REP. CANDIDATES: Concordiensis can ret11rn your photographs anytime this week. Just ask Mrs. Mmrra in the Student Acti'vities Oflic:e. Letters Editorials Editorial Response: Blame It On Us We, the Editors, feel that we must address ourselves to the statements made regarding Mr. Ruben's \Blame It On Union\ article that ran last week. First of all, the facts silould be stated for the record. Fire drills are called by the administratiGn once per term per donn. That is the legal minimum requirement for fire drills, and that is the total number of drills that administration, or to be more precise, Security and Safety does call. As a rule, these drills are called for early evening. It would seem clear, then, that any other fire alarm is either an accidental false alarm, a deliberate false alarm, a mechanical failure, or a real fire. Mr. Rubin's concluding statement clearly implied that administration was responsible for the frequent alarms. This we will say categorically, is Simply not :the case. The information that Mr. Ruben based his statement on was inaccurate, and it was the fault of the Concordiensis editors that such a statement was not checked :. . . ,; . . ., '· ' .. ' ' . . . ; ~ .. out thoroughly prior to its being printed. We must state, however, that Mr. Ruben did bring up some very good points, points that deserve restating. False alarms are more than senseless, they are dangerous. What is even more dangerous is the possibility that people will come to disregard the fire alanns completely. This can be fatal. Blame for the nwnerous false alarms on campus must be laid upon those who cause them-not those who are ultimately responsible for our safety on this campus. INVITE YOUR PARENTS & MAKE RESERVATIONS NOW!! For more information, call Jane Wood, Assistant Dean of Students, x61/6, x6043. A list of hotel-motel accommodations is available in her office. :> • -- .J ' 15 Tr\E2E h FUTU~ IN NUClEAR ENERGY i' ARE YOU KIDDING- NOW THt\T RE~AN'5 ROLLING BACK Trl05E PE~KY MFETY REGUL~TiONf> WE'LL HAVE PLENTY OF WORK lb KEEP 00 BU5Y /'

Page 8 General Nottices To the woman who called me about finding a lost black memo book after the Kinks concert: Please contact me again, it is important. Rob 370-6762. Dr. Mohammed Yadergari, born in Iran and a specialist on the Middle East, will speak on \Ideological Revelution in the Middle East,\ on Thursday, February 4, 1982 at 4:00p.m. in the Social Sciences Faculty Lounge. All students and faculty are invited. Refresh- ments will be served after the talk. Ride needed t.o Long Island this Friday (Jan. 29)-8outh Shore preferably, but anything eastof NYC may do. Call Anne- 372-9158. Wanted: Students, men and women, single or ~arried are needed to carry Girl Scouting to local girls. Share a skill or hobby; meet new people of all ages; learn new skills, effect a change in neighborhoods; try out a kind of work before selecting a career; make a contribution~to youth. To learn more about Campus Girl Scouts contact Mohawk Pathways Girl Scout Council, 945 Palmer Ave., · Schnectady. 374-3345. Volunteers needed at Sun- nyview Rehabilitation Hospital for Jan. 30 and 31, any hours, as an aid to and companion to patient. Call Sunnyview . Hospital at 382-4590 and ask for Mrs. Shoutis. QUAUTY TYPING: term· ' papers, resumes, etc. No job too large or small. 463-2733. TYPING SERVICE-Lowest Rates In Area--Electric- Erasing Typewriter. 70 cents a page 371-7701 Union College Department of Philosophy is pleased to an- nounce that Sandra Harding of The University of Delaware will gve a paper entitled \Is Gender a Variable in Conceptions of Rationality?'' on Friday, January 29, 1982, 3:~0 p.m. in Humanities 213. . Refreshments and discussion will follow in the Hwnanities Faculty Lounge. Union College Film Committee Presents ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST Director: Milos Forman Cast: Jack Nicholson, Louise Fletcher, Will Sampson, Brad Dourif- Jan. 29,30 and 31 at 7:30 & 10:00 OO'NCORDIENSIS, January !8, 1982 e Ices Oq Tile : Greek fro:qt New Sorority . . Anyone interested m forming a new sorority at Union College send your name along with your phone (!nd box number to Box 1380 by Febrmiry 5. There is no obligation made with the submission of your name. These names are needed to .show existing interest to sororities contemplating colonization. FIJI Party The brothers of Fiji are having their .first party of the term this Saturday, Jan. 3oth featuring The Drongos, one of the hottest hands in New York. It starts at 10:30 p.m. and ad- mission is $1.00 at the door. You won't want to miss this one. 1st Act: JUDYBETH GREENE ·JOE UVEGAS 2nd Act: MIKE ZANTA STEVE K:OELB,EL Thursday. Jan. 28th Shows at 9 and 11 Tickets in Carnegie --v--- ON I W!NNA ~ LEI YA PART'( ... ~ WARM lJP Ar Qi\VIDsoN BEA~lt -.-- ~~. ~-_:<r:ctJP.M fl_ BEACH ~IRE REQuE_: Sll:D SEER PND &ACH ·PU/11~~ MISSING: one box of slidea and books (2'x2;). The box contained slides and illustrative information material for lectures. If a~yone has any information, please contad Prof. Freund at 6208. -- Sel will lookt enth· dedic Unio1 respc the ( tour! do nc ApJ

Page 8 CONOORDIENSIS, January 28, 1982 e Ices General .Nottices ersoua ·sAl b> \ ~ ... ~ l . \..'.· ' ·. , ,. ~,... ...,-a o ·\\ n: ·\\\ . To the w0man who called me about finding a lost black memo book after the Kinks concert: Please cantact me again, it is important. Rob 370-6762. Dr. Mohammed Yadergari, born in Iran and a specialist on the Middle East, will speak on \Ideoh>gical Revolution in the Middle East,\ on Thursday, February 4, 1982 at 4:00p.m. in the Social Sciences Faculty Lounge. All students and faculty are invited. Refresh- ments will be served after the talk. Ride needed to Long Island this Friday (Jan. 29)-8outh Shore preferably, but anything east of NYC may do. Call Anne- 372-9158. Wanted: Students, men and women, single or n;~arried are needed to carry Girl Scouting to local girls. Share a skill or hobby; meet new people of all ages; learn new skills, effect a change in neighborhoods; try out a kind of work before selecting a career; make a contribution--to youth. To learn more about Campus Girl Scouts contact Mohawk Pathways Girl Scout Council, 945 Palmer Ave., Schnectady. 374-3345. Volunteers needed at Sun· nyview Rehabilitation Hospital for Jan. 30 and 31, any hours, as an aid to and companion to patient. Call Sunnyview Hospital at 382-4590 and ask for Mrs. Shoutis. QUALITY TYPING: term- papers, resumes, etc. No job too large or small. 463-2733. TYPING SERVICE-Lowest Rates In Area--Electric- Erasing Typewriter. 70 cents a page 371-7701 Union College Department of Philosophy is pleased to an- nounce that Sandra Harding of The University of Delaware will gve a paper entitled \Is Gender a Variable in Conceptions of Rationality?\ on Friday, January 29, 1982, 3:30 p.m. in Humanities 213. Refreshments and discussion will follow in the Humanities Faculty Lounge. To Greg B., Tennesse Tuxedo will not fail. Untilnen time, Fellow Fly Killer Kimosahe. That's it, just K.irn{)sabe. To the garbage--pickers at the Skellar; We must admit-you've got a lot of class. Hope it was worth looking like assholes for. Signed, Two Amused Observers Alex-Why am I going QUt .of my head whenever yolCre arGUll:d't The answer is .Qby,iom; ... l0Ve has eome to teWnl JAve~. · Laurie. \ AI~x-you ·still c.an?t prov~ that it. was a star! wve~ your· fellow $PS.Ce . sel)ut. To Glenn L., Congrats on tile new addition to your family. A Friend P.S. Did you use boiling chipB? Is that how organic chemistry works? To the Brothers and Pledg~ of Phi Sig: That was a great pledge project-Let's do it again sometime. We had a lot of fun and hope you,did too. Thanks f~:r th~ clean house, the kegs and the company. We appreciate it. The SUjters and ple~ge of Trt~ Delta. · _,_· ___ -:.:•. ,_,_,,., ~- -· . ''\. . ·- . .;;,·---:~:-:·:':/•':.:( Rich ''Benituntn': B./\fl$it. •• :: ... Our supplf . t>f Mru:isengil is r~~rttlow. Yqu)~il ~tt9l' · . the · O.B. method. Stgneq~ . . · Cramps · · · :il€~:;.~cG~; 'v&u ~ow~ m¥Ji ·· ,Visene Visene and; • the· headt stilt ~lm £rPi · · ' · ~!~!~iio!::~~h in ttie;. JlO:~ltlayafter thllt · · a:owie haby t lt Dear P · · Trevllr is those Wh!i¥ can't oo, ; ·1\ f'()j,;Fi{)ri ·· 8rlld. Meg. Carbon Unit. PJi. Wllat's the · pnt her fitlger in y&ur ear mecbanism1 · w~k.e you. For breakfast, be· Oll, Dave Woilen; Wbat.Jmid ·'·~tQ,.YO{Jr ·~man,~:''.~·W~~~t',,··. ()£ devices did you want? Your\ .... $~~;tit ~llll'J •· · ' fl'lett(ls, ·Tne Do-n~With~ · go get two ~ll Pbos Yourself Club sodas. ·When you gotta go., you · ~-__,.-- ...... ---·.:--· ·· gotta go!! SNOOKS··Thank y(ll.l for -- -------- being a friend; (ETt .•.• .!)- MY KAPPA SIGMA: C.S. ·· BROTHERS ~NO SIS'JJEJlS.... Les Am Y Les Extrano Mucho!! T Jim~-Have a very Happy Birthday and a great week·end at home. I'll miss you. Love~ S Rachel-would you please cut · it out with the sentimental JR;....Thanks for the talk and personals, you're gonna mal1e for {~being cool\ Love, YEJ3 me cry. L.G.-P.S. My prediction Dear steven, l reallymisstbe WJLL. come true. Your pe:rfe.ct. necklace around my neck. Even . {f{)r the job tool J . » • Michael though I can't wear it, you still have my heart. Now .a.nd Hey Boser, The entropy ()f the . always. univ.erse ls constantly in~ cr<m:sing. The universe is ex· D.B/s aflLC.: I'll be back for panding! Scary. eb? Go tell that dinner but ·until then remem~ to Count Floyd. her: Doo't get $edous Sntrbaby cause rm C<lming back; Meags ... othello Sem-es: --don't drink tao r,nuch, you dnn't Debbie -.1 Aaron .. I} want to meet the ~arne fate aa your dn~. (message cnntinued To tbeSctwharieKid, D¥·D4 irl aoother perSQnal. Sorry!) Signed) Patadium and f!en$ · ... ··.·.·· · . ·· ··· · .. P.S. Wanna see a light Show? ~Y tallt\a! SapPY Birthday, kiddol The . eutest .girt in Unioo To )). ... Jlooth} !;squire is now 19! Love, ·P.B.D. • ·magazine is folding! D() .. Y®. D.B/sofu.c. (cont.};. Poo~J\'- want raz~r blades or sleeping · if you ean 1 t ~teep your hair tablets? Yours truly, x .. tuii) 1 , squea1ty clean I'll help you; · Inc. Lisa, duntt go bending ov~r . ·t---------- ....... asking guys for lays beeau~re ,.---------------------- 1 .Yffll kno1V what 1\appens to your pants. M's boyfriend Union College Film Committee Presents Ved~ Dnn~t mess with any F+'s beeause Jill-hear about it and you lmuw what happened last time. (Chi Psi) T.M.M. . Scrappyf Your a loser but I · miss you anyway. Stay away frQtn the pool table and maybe you'll get your $20 baek. Scooby Jill, whatever happened to Gina, Mary, and E:velyn, Osgood, Lurta, and Smith? Linda, The projeetor is out of fQcus. Do you have a phobia about it? If the spud fits·wear it. Photographers like th.em enlarged. 011 Tile · Greek fro11t New Sorority . Anyone interested m forming a new sorority at Union College send your name along with your phone and box number to Box 1380 by February 5. There is no obligation made with the submission of your name. These names are needed to show existing interest to sororities contemplating colonization. FIJI Party The brothers of Fiji are having their first party of the term this Saturday, Jan. 3oth featuring The Drengos, one of the hottest bands in New York. lt starts at 10:30 p.m. and ad- mission is $1.00 at the door. You won't want to miss this one. 1st Act: JUDYBETH GREENE JOE UVEGAS 2nd Act: MIKE ZANTA STEVE KOELBEL Thursday, Jan. 28th Shows at 9 and 11 Tickets in Carnegie Director: Milos Forman MISSING: One box of slides and boaks (2'x2'). The box contained slides and illustrative infarmation material for lectures. If anyone has any information, please contact Cast: Jack Nicholson, Louise Fletcher, Will Sampson, Brad Douri£. Jan. 29,30 and 31 at 7:30 & 10:00 Prof. Freund at 6208. -- P\· ,;:: ;( ...... •v • l . . \ ~ ...... ·.' Se!E will lookir. enthu de die; Union respo1 ~he C tour a do no1 App

:ming ollege iyour >Box dsno the l'hese show rities 1. are f the 3oth 11e of rork. i ad- You 1e. OONOORDJENSIS., January 28, 198$ :'~\ 011 <file Otller. fro_:Qt . :• . ·Jl' Monday, Feb. 1 in the Student b ~ .) • <0 .. \ ~ . - f.; u ... 0 :· ~·· Activities Office and the ~ \· Admissions Office. riley niust be turned in to the Admissions Office by Monday, Feb.15. You must also sign up for an in- \.1. ~ ~,. ...;..,. Q ...,IV'L\e..' \'.../' Gatesmen _ Selection for new Gatesmen will begin shortly. We are looking for students wpo are enthusiastic about and dedicated to the tradition of Union. If you feel you are responsible and willing to meet the Commitment of giving a tour at least on(!e a week, please do not hesitate to apply. Applications will be available terView at this time: the in- terviews will be conducted the evenings of Feb. 15, 16, 17 and 18. . 'French Club A move is underway to establish a French Club at Union. If you are interested in seeing French films, speaking French and creating a French ambiance on campu~, please Union ·lege Film Committee Presents: contact someone in the French Department at 6212, 6213, or 6002. Those interested in speaking French are urged to come to the French table at the Pub. Tuesday is the day, and 12:30 p.m. is the time. Mountebanks Coming Attraction Previewing for the :first time . . . Mountebanks World Records Night. Feb. 16-Tuesday night. Challenge your friends·! Orientation Committee '82 Orientation Committee ap- plications are now available in the Student Affairs-Activities Office. Please complete and return your application by Feb. 5th. If you have any questions, then contact Mike Andolina by calling x6061 or by stopping by his office in Student Affairs. Black History Montb February is Black History Month. Watch in next weeks issue for calendar of events. Page 9 ' .... ~ ''~~ p 0('10\ ' ' \• ~,. > • ~ ?' • \\4 (., 111 .) ~·~ ~ ~\' ..:;.o ~Q ~;,_ o \\. <OJV? ~--~.e. B.L.A.s. Presents On Tuesday, February 9, 1982, the Black and Latin Alliance of Students (B.L.A.S.) will present \Lecture on Black Education; In Perspective\. The speaker will be Dr. Betty Shabazz, the widow of the late Civil Rights leader, Malcom X. The lecture wi:ll be at 8:00p.m. at Memorial Chapel. The donation is $2.00 for college students, faculty and staff with I.D., and $3.00 for the general public. For more in- formation, please call the Union 1 College Box Office at 370-6118. THIS MOVIE IS TOTAlLY OUT OF CONTROL ADDITION TO THE CAREER WORKSHOP SCHEDULE 'Internship Workshop Wed., Feb. 3 3:30·p.m. Career Center Open to all students. Please sign up in advance. UPCOMING WORKSHOPS Skills Identification Mon., Feb. 1 6:30-8: 3() p.m. Career Center Self-assessment workshop designed primarily for, but not limited to, the Libetal Arts Student. In- cludes identification of \transferable skills\ and work values. This is the first step in any effective job search. - Career-Life Plaonmg Wed., Feb. 3 7-9 p.m. Career Center Take an active role in forming your future. This session is designed to increase students' knowledge and' awareness of the how, what, when, and where of planning for one's career and life after college. Films Incorporated INTERNSHIP WITH THE STATE BANK OF ALBANY © 1977 KFM ALMS. INC. This summer program is open to students who will have completed their junior year and wish to explore banking as a career. Minority students are encouraged to apply. Application deadline: March 31. Applications are available at the Career Center, AOP Office, and the Economics Dept. R~LEASED BY UNITED FILM DISTRJBunON COMPANY. INC · 'Tuesday, Feb. 2 at 7, 9 and 11 This Desk Can-Reach Mach z Some\'esk jobs are more exciting than others~ As a Navy pilot or flight Q:fficer, your desk can be a 'SOphisticated com- bina~n of supersonic jet airl:!raft and advanced authority. In the air, and on the ground, you have mfi;nagement responsi· bility from the beginning. And your responsibility grows as you gain experience. No company electronic equipment. But you can handle it. Because Navy flight training gives you the navigation, aerodynamics and other technical know-how you need. can give you this kind of leadership respon- sibility this fast. And nothing beats the sheer excitement of Navy flying. l'tt return, Navy aviation demands some- thing of you as an officer: Leadership. The salary is exciting, too. Right away, you'll earn about $18,000 a year. That's better than the average corporatiQn will pay you just out of college. And with regular Navy promotions and other pay increases, your annual salary will soar to $32,400 after four years. That's on top of a full pavkage of benefits and privileges. Your path to leadership .starts with officer training that's among the most demanding in the military. It's intensive leadership and pofessional schooling combined with rigo~us Navy flight training. And it's all geared to preparing you and other .college - Before you settle down to an earthbound grad11ates. for the unique challenge of Navy aviation. The program is tough but rewarding. ·One important reward for.Navy officers is decision-making ,.------.--------.., I NAVYOPPORTUNITY INFORMATION CENTER I P.O. Box 6000, Clifton, NJ 07012 W143 I 0 Please send me more information aboutuecom· ing a member of the Naval Aviation 'learn. 10A) I Name·--~~---m'~~~--~.----- 1 First 1Pienae Print) Last Addre~s, ________ Apt. il---'--- 1 City·-----Stnt,~-- ,.,__ __ I Age·---tCollege/University·------ I :j:Year in College ____ tGPA _____ _ 1 .t.Major/Minor'----------~-- 1 Phone Nu~ber ·{Area COdeJ Best Time to Call Thla fs for general recruitment ihformntion. You d~ net have to furnish any · or the int~rmatlon requested. Of course, the mon:r we •\mow, the more I we can hehl to determine the kinds· of Navy po9ltlons for which .)leu qualify, ' CPl 82 ... ___ .,.... ___________ ... OfficenGet deskjob,reachforthesky. Reach for the coupon. Find out what it takes to be part of the Naval Avia- tion 'Tham. You could have a desk that flies at twice the speed of sound.

ming Uege your Box is no the 'hese show ·ities are ~ the 3oth 1e of· 'ork. ad- You e. '\ 0 l . . Gates men OONOORDIENSIS, January 28, 198~ . \ p ~ \ \ t· ·' . ' ·~·Monday, Feb. 1 in the Student :, ~·· Activities Office and the ,. · · Admissions Office. They must be turned in to the Admissions Office by Monday, Feb. 15. You must also sign up for an in- • Ices contact someone in the French Department at 6212, 6213, or 6002. Orientation Committee '82 Page 9 '\\ 0 l b .. ... ~ . . \..~L o.j to ~ ~ ..... So Q --t...At'·\\ oQ _ • B.L.A.S. Presents Selecti@n for new Gatesrnen will begin shortly. We are looking for students wpo are enthusiastic about and dedicated to the tradition of Union. If you feel you are responsible and willing to meet the Commitment of giving a tour atleast once a week, please do not hesitate tG apply. terview at this time: the in- terviews will be conducted the evenings of Feb. 15, 16, 17 and 18. . French Club A move is underway to establish a French Club at Union. If you are interested in seeing French films, speaking French and creating a French ambiance on campus, please Those interested in speaking French are urged to come to the French table at the Pub. Tuesday is the day, and 12:30 p.m. is the time. Mountebarrks Coming Attraction Previewing for the first time ... Mountebanks World Records Night. Feb. Hi-Tuesday night. Challenge your friends! Orientation Committee ap- plications are now available in the Student Affairs-Activities Office. Plea.se complete and return your application by Feb. 5th. If you have any questions, then centact Mike Andolina by calling x6001 or by stopping by his office in Student Affairs. Black l:listory Month February is Black History Month. Watch in next weeks issue for calendar of events. On Tuesday, February9, 1982, the Black and Latin Alliance of Students (B.L.A.S.) will present \Lecture on Black Education; In Perspective\. The speaker will be Dr. Betty Shabazz, the widow of the late Civil Rights leader, Malcom X. The lecture will be at 8:00p.m. at Memorial Chapel. The donation is $2.00 for college students, faculty and staff with I.D., and $3.00 for the general public. For more in- formation, please call the Union 1 College Box Office at 370-8118. Applications will be available Union College Film Committee Presents: ADDITION TO THE CAREER WORKSHOP SCHEDULE THIS MOVJE IS TOTALLY OUT OF CONTROL Internship Workshop Wed.,Feb.3 3:30p.m. Career Center Open to all students. Please sign up in advance. UPCOMIN6 WORKSHOPS Skills Identification Mon.,Feb.1 6:30-8:30 p.m. Career Center Self-assessment workshop designed primarily for, but not limited to, the Liberal Arts Student. In- cludes identification of \transferable skills\ and work values. This is the first step in any effective job search. Films Incorporated © !CJ77 KFM FILMS rNC RELt'.ASEil BY UNITF.D FILM DISTRIBUTION COMPANY INC ;Tuesday, Feb. 2 at 7, 9 and 11 Career-Life Planning Wed., Feb. 3 7-9 p.m. Career Center Take an active role in forming your future. This session is designed to increase students' knowledge and awareness of the how, what, when, and where of planning for one's career and life after college. INTERNSHIP WITH THE STATE BANK OF ALBANY This summer program is open to students wh() will have completed their junior year and wish to explore banking as a career. Minority students are encouraged to apply. Application deadline: March 31. Applications are available at the Career Center, AOP Office, and the Economics Dept. This Desk Can-Reach Mach Z Some~esk jobs are more authority. In the air, and exciting than others. on the ground, you have As a Navy pilot or flight management responsi- officer, your desk can be bility from the beginning. a 'SOphisticated com· And your responsibility binal1iqn of supersonic grows as you gain jet aireraft and advanced experience. No company electronic equipment. But you can handle it. can give you this kind of leadership respon- Because Navy flight training gives you the sibility this fast. And nothing beats the sheer navigation, aerodynamics and other technical excitement of Navy flying. know~how you need. The salary is exciting, too. Right away, In return, Navy aviation demands some- you'll earn about $18,000 a year. That's thing of you as an officer: Leadership. better than the average corporation will pay Your path to leadership starts with officer you just out of college. And with regular Navy training that's among the most demanding promotions and other pay increases, your in the military. It's intensive leadership annual salary will soar to $32,40() after four and I»rofessional schooling combined with years. That's on top of a full package of rigorous Navy flight training. And it's all benefits and privileges. geared to preparing you and other college Before you settle down to an earthbound graduates for the unique ,-------------.., deskjob,reachforthesky. challenge of Navy w 143 I Reach for the coupon. NAVY OPPORTUNITY aviation. The program is INFORMATION cENTER I Find out what it takes to tough but rewarding. P.o. Box 5000 • Clifton, NJ 07012 bepartoftheNavalAvia- - One important 0 Please send me more information about becom· I tion Thrun. You could ing a member of the Naval Aviation Team. (0AI reward for Navy officers 1 have a desk that flies at Name'--=::------:m=-~,..----.=,---- lS decision-making F1rst <Please Print! Last I twice the speed of sound. Address _______ Apt. 11·---- City· _____ Stnte_ __ Zip._ __ Age ___ tCollege/University·------ *Year in College ____ tGPA ____ _ &Major/Minot----------- Phone Number,_,..IA-::::n,.\C\\'odT.:'el;-----n:B '\\''ft=·m.,-t\\\o \\\C'a - This 1S for gener~tl recruitm~nt mformation You do not hnw to furnssh any of the mfnrmatJon requeste<l Of course. thi' mort> WI' know. the mort> we co.n help to determine the kinds of Nnvy pas1t1ons fN wh1ch. vou qualify CPl 82 1 I I I I I .... ______ , __________ .... Officers Get Fast.

Page 10 OONOORDIENSIS} January !8, 198i4 Crimson Skinny Dipper Controversy competitor,. the Harvard Crimson. 11 Legal \Drugs? (CPS)-''We don't wanna wear (swim) suits,\ protests Grace Ross, a Harvard junior. But the opportunities for Ross and the other residents of Harvard's Adams- House dor- .mitory to go skinny dipping in the dorm pool have been drastically reduced, and they don't like it. Indeed, their discontent has inspired charges that the New Right has invaded the pool. _ . \I think the Harvard Crimson (which initiany broke the story of the ·reduced nude co-ed swimming hours) is trying to create an issue, perhaps to smear me, Sauter specUlates. uncomfartable about not wearing a suit, or being arolll1d others who are naked,\ ex. plains Adams swimmer Ross. \Mark thinks it's unfair to them.\ (CPS)-\They sell like crazy,\ says an editor at High Times magazine. \They're some ·Of the most dangerous drugs on the market today,\ says an lllinois public health official. \We're .giving the public ~oods, not drugs,\ claims a company president. . The controversial objects in question are so-called \legal body stimulants,'' pseudo-drugs which have reportedly been sweeping college campuses in popularity the past year or so. The products, which by and large are quite legal, usually take the form either of \look- alike\ capsules and tablets designed to resemble am- phetamines, Quaaludes or cocaine; or butyl nitrite, an oxidizing agent marketed as \liquid incense\ that buyers inhale out of a small bottle. The capsules and tablets usually contain a combination of caffeine, phynylpropanolmine (an an- tihistamine) and ephedrine sulfate. They provide users with enough of a \high\ to satisfy them as being the genuine article, though the bogus pills cost ·aealers far less than do genuine amphetamines. The pills provide the stimulant equivalent of \perhaps two cups of coffee,\ according to a Food and Drug Administration spokesman. Inhaling butyl nitrite, or \liquid incense,\ triggers a brief increase in blood pressure and hearbeat, causing the user to feel giddy apd euphoric for about two minutes before returning to normal. Fly-by-night pharmaceutical companies reportedly have been springing up like wildfire during the past year, flooding the college market with pills and incense, often advertising openly in campus newspapers with promos for large helpings of stimulants. \I haven't heard of these drugs hitting our campus,\ says student counselor Kent Poey of the University of Massachusetts. \We haven't really seen anything around here,\ says William C. White, director of psychological ser- vices at Cornell. \It couldn't be very big among our students.\ On the other hand, Bill Olson of the University of Colorado counseling service saw an in- crease in usage during the past year. \They were pretty popular last spring,\ he notes, \although we haven't had anyone come in experiencing problems, strung out on the stuff.\ \There have been at least five deaths nationwide as a result of caffeine drugs,\ contends Dr. John Spikes, chief toxicologist at the Illinois public health department, whose state recently initiated legal action to prohibit sales of look-alikes. \And there are others that probably haven't been reported, simply because people didn't realize what had triggered the victim's reaction. u \You'd have to cautious of repeated usage of {butyl nitrite),\ warns Dr. Charles Sharp of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, citing evidence of a munber of deaths among homosexuals, who, he says, are the most frequent incense in- dulgers. By and large, though, he concedes ~\most people can probably get by without problems.\ \Our product is among the most benign substances you could find, as benign as tap water, u exults W. Jay Freezer, San Francisco-based manufacturer of Rush, the most popular butyl nitrite unhalent. \The chemical gets nowhere • near the brain.\ \About twenty states have conceded (in court cases) there's no problem with Rush,\ says Freezer, who claims his product is now legal in every state except Massachusetts and Georgia. \In effect,\ Freezer proclaims, \we're the third legal hedonistic product in America, along with tobacco and alcohol.\ \It's difficult to prove a new drug is dangerous,\ admits FDA's Chris Smith, \but there are other measures we can take.\ Generally unable to make a case on drug abuse grounds, the agency is now pursuing a differeiit angle - counterfeiting. ''The phony drugs are designed to look exactly like the real thing,\ says Smith, whose agency seized the products of nine different stimulant manufacturers. in a surprise raid. Most of the companies were located in New York and Pennsylvania, with the town of Milroy, Pa. fingered as \the center for most nation-wide stimulant activity,\ by Smith. Smith traces stimulant manufacturing to around 1975, selling. almost exclusively to truck drivers. \It wasn't until the past year or so t})ese things caught on around college campuses, partly due to the general diet pill craze among college kids.\ Dean Latimer, associate editor of High Times magazine, is skeptical about the stimulants' value. \These things will lteep you awake, impair your diet, and you'll build up a total tolerance within two weeks,\ he scoffs. \I used to be a .speed freak, and taking this new stuff is like taking two or three cups of Turkish coffee. It doesn'tdo much of anything.\ Mark Sauter, the pool manager who decreased the number of hours in which swimsuits are optional at Adams House, is chairman of the Harvard-Radcliffe Con- servative Club,\ according to Adams senior Frank Streeter. \It's known ·he runs in con- servative circles. We think his conservatism is affecting his operation of the pool. \ Sauter also edits a new, self- consciously conservative paper _ at Harvard called The Salient. It is similar to alternative, conservative papers at the University of Wisconsin and at Dartmouth. \It's just a lot of silliness,\ Sauter says. Yet Sauter also suspects his politics and especially his new publication might be respon- sible for the controversy, especially in the pages of his PHOTO CLUB WINTER PHOTO CONT,EST Theme: Winter at Union,- pictures portraying winter life at Union Entries Due Monday, Feb 15th -$75 plus free darkroom use for the rest of the year .and a discount card for Burns Camera Store. 2nd Prize .. $25 and extras \The Crimson went around asking. people, 'What do you think of the New Right invading Adams House?'\ Sauter recalls. ''The Crimson really controls news on this campus. They're forever giving editorial slants to things. If I hadn't been the one who changed the pool hours, then it wouldn't have been a good story.'' Sauter disclaims membership in the New Right anyway. \I'm a libertarian. I'm not New Right and I don't ·care about the New Right.'' Crimson reporter Julian Treger contends, \I didn't try to write a hatchet job on Mark Sauter. I justwantedto write an article about the swimming pool.\ Sauter .says he increased the number of pool hours during whieh swimsuits are mandatory to try to get more students to use the pool. ''Attendance has been down. We wanted to open up the pool to more swinimers.\ \.(Sauter~s) argument is that a lot of people shy away from swimming because they're \We don't think it's unfair\ she argues. \We want to skin~.Y di\ p. \Most people here aren't offended by nude swimming,\ says Frank Streeter. \People are simply exercising their civil Uberties. We have beautiful w.omen here -- the best on campus - but there's never been any incidents at the pool whatsoever. It's just a fun thing.\ Sophomore Morgan Belf<Jrd thinks Sauter's action \in· terferes with the integrity of Adams . House. Most people don't mind if other people are naked or not.\ Balford suggests alumni concerned that the, Adams pool had become a gathering place for homosexuals also influenced Sauter. \There's a lot of gays living · here,\ Ross concedes. \Adams is very open. We're the only house where black and white students sit together while they're eating.\ But Sauter insists, -\I don't care about homosexuality. I don't mind nude swimming.\ LivE! fRoM LE·CHocoLATiER ••• iT's SATuRdAy Niql-·n! JANUARY }0rfi 11 pM.-1 : }0 AM MidNiGI-tT MlJNCiiiES .. • All you CAN EAT fROM OUR cliocol~TE buffET • fREE ChAMpAGNE 0 liVE ANd SEMHiVE ENTERTAiNMENT 8 COME iN COSTUME if you likE- COVER Cl-tARqE: A MERE $1 0 pER pERSON RobiNSON ~UARE }() 1 HAMilToN SmEn AlbANy, N.Y. 12210 (~16) 4}4-170Q 0 CENTER Cily PlAZA 4n StAn;; smeEr SdtENECTAdy, N.Y. 12}()~ (~1 }Q}..()}17 The Campus Store· Presents: PEANU.TS@ by Charles M. Schulz WHICH DO YOU THINK LASTS LONGER IN LIFE, TI-lE GOOD THINGS OR THE SAl' THINGS? GOOD THINGS LAST E!GI-IT SECONI'5 .. BAD THINGS LAST THREE WEEK5 · WHAT ABOUT IN BETWEEN? · lN BETWEEN '(OU SHOULD TAKE A NAP ... ?.-11 0 +- 0 .!: c. 0 (J) { l ] (

sy bout not around ex. Ross. unfair to unfair\ to skin~y aren't \People their civil beautiful best on never the pool a fun Belford \in· of people people are alumni dams pool place influenced living \Adams the only and white while ·\I don't I iT's AM buffET @ ~ \' ~ ,., !! ~ fJ! \ , ;; p OONOORDIENSIS, January 28., 198! Page 11 ~-Athlete of the Week I ~ By DAVE RUDEN Sports Columnist O.T. for them before the season. 0 +- 0 ..c a. 0 ()') By MIKE SHARP Spotts Staff Congratulations to Cay Lynch, who bas garnered the Athlete of the Week Award. Cay, a sophomore guard on the Union College - Women's Basketball Team, came into . this week as the fourth leading scorer in the nation in Division III with a23.0 average, and was the Second leading field goal scorer in Division . III in the nation with a 61.8 percentage. Cay is an excellent all around player,. She's a good outside Cay Lynch Sports Editoria<l: shooter, a good ball handler, and she drives to the hoop well. Her talented play enabled her to score 24 points against Russell Sage, 20 points against Skid· more and 24 points against Dominican. At oresstime, January 26,.Cay took the court against a strong Vassar squad. With the help of Cay's precision shooting, the Union women hoopsters have attained a 3-2 r~cord. Last year, Cay ied the team in scoring with 239 points; averaging 18 points. a game, and was the team MVP. At Union College, Cay has also used her 5'6\ for the JV field hockey team. She is .from New YorkCity and she attended Loyola High School, where she played volleyball, basketball, and softball. In high school she was. voted Outstanding Female Athlete. Cay is a sister of the Delta Gamma Sorority . Congratulations to Cay Lynch and the rest of the Women's hoop squad, and the best of luck in the upcoming games. Now that Super Bowl XVI is over and San Francisco has emerged the winner of Pete's Parity Sweepstakes, it is time to set our sights on other playing fields, namely college basketball. Some of the best competition around is located in the Northeast inthe name of the Big East Conference. With fewer scholarships to be offered in college sports, mere schools are staking claims in the talented pool. Thus, it is less likely for a high school super- star to migrate around the country searching for the local UCLA. More and more local talent is staying in area schools and this has allowed the Big East to become one of the most competitive conferences in the country. Villanova and Connecticut are two other schools with good shots for NCAA berths. Villanova is an underrated team paced by center .John Pinone., guard Stewart Granger, and a solid bunch of freshmen. The Wildcats have the best conference (6·1) and overall (13--3) records. Con- necticut ( 4-2, 12-3) is the Big East's hottest team, having knocked off Georgetown and Villanova in the past week. In forward Corny Thompson the Huskies sport a potential first round draft pick. The team's fortunes ride on the play .of center Chuck Aleksinas and the backcourt of Karl Hobbs and Norm Bailey. St. Johns and Syracuse have been early season surprises. While both teams were sup- posed to be in the rebuilding process, each has proven to be a thorn for their opponents. The Redmen (3-2, 12-3) are led by high skying forward David Russell, while the Orangemen (3-3, 10-6) depend on Tony Bruin and Erich Santifer. Athletics at Union The eight schools that com- prise the Big East are: Boston College, Connecticut, Georgetown, Providence, St. Johns, Seton Hall, Syracuse, and Villanova (Pittsburgh will be added next year). Each' Big East school has an overall record of .500; no other con- ference can boast this success. Three schools (Georgetown, St. Johns and Villanova) have appeared in various top twenty polls, and a fourth (Con- necticut) seems likely to make it shortly. By the time March rolls around, Hartford, the site of the Big East Tournament, will seem like an wtruly welfare line, with each team fighting for survival and a place in the NCAA Tournament. Boston College (3-4, 8-6), Seton Hall (1-4, 9-6), and Providence (1-5, 9-8) each has hopes of getting hot in time for tournament play (starting this year the Big East winner gets an automatic NCAA playoff bid). Boston College, paced by the·erratic play of guard John Bagley are coming off a super year, but . more balance is needed from Jay Murphy and Dwan Chandler if the team is to regain consistency. Seton Hall's success rides on the shoulders of guard Dan Calandrillo, the early pick for conference MVP. Providence, looking to return to their glory days of the early seventies, will have to wait until more support for Otis Thorpe arrives. By ROBERT A. NORTON, Jr. Sports Editor . John Locke once said, \A sound mind in a sound body, is a short, but full description of a happy state in this. _ world. \ Nowhere is this statement more applicable than at an academic institution such as Union. The advantages of a strong athletic program, both intercollegiate and intramural, are many. The principles of competition and teamwork which are learned through athletic participation can be applied throughout life. Another advantage of a strong athletic program is the ability a good program has to attract a more diversified group of students. A more diversified student group allows a more selective admission process and wider range of ideas within the college itself. The final ad- vantage of athletic par- ticipation which comes to mind is the health benefits which athletic training provides during school and in the life which follows. It is reassuring to see that Union is taking steps to insure the future of the institution by strengthening the sports programs. After a controversial attempt to build a program during the Harkness tenure, Union has taken a more subtle and wider based tack in trying to build better sports programs. The most obvious result of this new program is the building of the all-pW\pose field. The all- purpose field serves many needs. First, it attracts high caliber athletes by providing an excellent playing facility. Secondly, the field provides Union with badly needed field area for both intercollegiate Basketball Continued from page 12 college's assist record set by Bill Carmody. Clinton leads the team with 65 handouts this year, and is just 26 shy of tying the record (326). The win over Kings Point boosted Union's record to 7-7. The Dutchmen hope to extend their winning streak when they play at Hobart this Friday and at Rochester on Saturday. and intramUral activities. Another reassuring aspect of Union sports is the resurgence of the major sports programs after a very difficult period. After a controversy Which almost tor.e< the c.ollege . apart, steady and low-keyed leader- ship has brought the hockey program respect from ~oth Union students and faculty as · well as opponents. The football program has also enjoyed a remarkable turnaround. Under the guidance ·Of Joe Wirth, Union has had their first win- ning season since 1970. Wirth,.s young team should continue to improve and provide many more exciting moments. While intercollegiate athletics provides opportunities for some students and excitement for others, an equally important part of sports at college is in- tramurals.. The Union Intramural program has also gone througn an important revitalization. This turnaround is the result of the excellent organization of intramural director, Tom Collette. Intramurals is not Tom's only responsibility. He is also assistant basketbal-l and baseball coach. This does not detract from his performance as intramural head. He realizes the importance of intramurals and has developed the program accordingly. Participation, the goal .of intramurals, has in- creased due to the well organized program and the wide variety of acti:vities which the intramural department offers. Athletics is an important part of life and therefore should also be a part of college. Union has Following the two-game trip this week,. Union will play host to powerful Hamilton on . February 3 at 8 p.m. Last year the Dutchmen upset the Con- tinentals 64-54 at the Fieldhouse before losing a 67-52 decision in Hamilton in the championship game of last season's ECAC Tournament. taken some positive steps toward insuring the mutual beneficial development of mind and body. Hopefully, these programs will continue and not fall prey to neglect which has happened in the past. ,- Hockey Continued from ·page 12 out to an early lead~ In the second period, Union cut the Elmira lead to 3-2. At this point in the game, Union had a chance to tie the game and even go ahead when an Elmira player received a five minute major for spitting on a Union player. In this situation, Union has a power play for five minutes. Even if Union scores, the opposing player stays in the penalty box. However, Union's chances were spoiled when Scott Fitzgerald was handed a five minute major for butt- ending. This proved to be costly for Union. Union lost its power play opportunity and lost Fitzy for the remainder of the game. This forced Coach Morrison to juggle players on defense and on the front lines. From this point on, Union could not generate any offense, and went on to lose 8-4. Of all the members of the conference, Georgetown (3--3 conference, 14-5 overall) has achieved the most notoriety. Much of this fame can be at- tributed to Patrick Ewing, the super freshman who has added a new dimension to the Hoyas. Until this year, the team depended on the offense of guard Eric \Sleepy\ Floyd to lead the Hoy as to victory. However with Ewing clogging the middle on the defensive end, Georgetown's opponents have found many of their shots fired back at them like a bu!let from a gun. Coach John Thompson will have to do something about Ewing's constant foul trouble, however, if Georgetown is to achieve the success predicted Now in its third year, the Big East has established itself as a major conference. While not yet mentioned in the same breath as the A. C. C. or Big Ten, the Big East should continue to develop as more good talent stays closer to home. Come NCAA toW'- nament time the rest of the country will see just how good this conference is. In the meantime, Big East members .. will bask in their relative anonymity as they knock off the nation's best. - Hockey Notes - . . . Jr. Tri·Captain Scott Fitzgerald's major penalty against Elmira resulted in his missing the Lowell game . . . Pending doctor's approval, Sean Wills was supposed to have seen action last night against Middlebury ... Jamie Knight has been lost to the team until the end of the season. That nagging knee injury turned out to be a broken kneecap . . . Despite Coach Morrison saying, \What we have to avoid is becoming a one line team,\ if Gil Egan continues to play on Fobare's left wing with Don Beall at right wing, look for that line to do most of Union's scoring ... Curlers Take Second Last weekend, the Union College Curlers competed in the Governor's Bowl, hosted at the Albany Curling Club. Out of the fifteen more ex- perienced teams, Union, in their first bonspiel of the year, fought hard to be runner-up in the second event. The team of John Manuel, Marc .Luxenberg, and Mike Nassar, and led by Dave Brindisi, took to the ice Fridayat 8:30 a.m. against the New York State Junior Champions led by skip Jim Abelseth. Union got off to a slow start on their opponents' home ice, giving up five stones in the first end (inning). Union never had a chance to catch up, and conceded the game after six ends. The curlers made it through the heavy snow Saturday morning to come back and defeat Garden State 9-5. The temperature had risen from 11 to 20 degrees F when Union took to the ice that afternoon against Albany's number one team led by Austin Cline. Starting slow again, Union lost three points in the first end, but tied the score in the next end, scoring three stones. That momentum helped Union score big ends, taking four in the fifth, three in the seventh and two in the eighth, to win over Albany 12-8. Union advanced to the finals of the Patroon Plate, the second event, playing the Canadians of Valleyfield, Sunday morning. Union fought hard, winning three in the second, after dropping three in the first end. The lead traded between the two teams and Union pulled ahead by one in the next to last end. Valleyfield, with last rock advantage, tied the score in the last end, sending the match into an extra end. Union missed some critical takeouts, letting their opponents protect their stones to score one, winning the match and the second event. This weekend Union curlers will be competing in the Schenectady Mixed Bonspiel, at the Schenectady Curling Club located on Balltown Road.

Page 12 OONOORDIENSI$, January BB, 1981! Cagers Strong; Win Three ByERICSAP!R Sports Staff The week of Jan. 18-25 was a successful one for the Union· hoopsters. The Garnet chalked up victories against Platt- sburgh, Binghamton and Division III powerhouse Kings Point. These wins directly foll(lwed the victory over Rochester, giving Union a four game winning streak. The wins have boosted Union's record to .500 at 7-7. If the Dutchmen can continue to play this quality baU, their chances for an ECAC Upstate New York Tournament berth are quite good. There are 10 games remaining in the -season. Five of these are away from the Memorial Field House, where the team's record is a dismal 2-6. This trend will have to be reverseP, in order for the Dutchmen to gain a tourney berth. _,.... Against Plattsburgh Tuesday night, at no point in the contest was Union behind. Ken D'Orazio's hoop at 16:31 put the score at 6-4. Union did not relinquish the lead after this point. Union stretched its lead to 10 points and went into halftime ahead 29-21. The Dutchmen maintained a sizeable lead throughout the second half. With 2:49 left and the score at 59-49, Scanlon's five almost :let the game get away. In the follow'.ing two minutes and twenty seconds Plattsburgh cut the deficit to four points, 59· 55. But missed..free throws down the stretch by Plattsburgh ended aU hope for a come from behind victory. Union outre.bounded Platt- sburgh 37-27. John Montanile was game high in that depart- ment with 14. Joe Clinton shot 'l- 10 from the field and 4-6 from the foul Une to pace Union with 18 points. Joe Wood also .shot impressively, going 6\9 from the floor and 4-4 from the line. Montanile scored 14 points to match his 14 rebounds. The first half of · the Binghamton game was, to say the least, very lackluster. Both teams played sloppily, throwing passes away and missing easy shots. It was not until H2 minutes into the game that the first points were scored. Ken D'Orazio hit Union's first six points, all on short jumpers, as tfnion went out to a 6-4 lead. The Dutchmen at one point were up by five points, only to see it slip away and go down by three at the 3:50 mark. Union struggled John Jarosak sets his sights on the basket. SPORTS HAPPENINGS Jan. 28-Feb. 4 VARSITY BASKETBALL JV BASKETBALL VARSITY HOCKEY J.V. HOCKEY WOMEN'S BASKETBALL SWIMMING WRESTLING Jan. 29at Hobart Jan. 30 at Rochester Feb. 3 Hamilton Feb. 1 RPI Feb. 3 Hamilton Jan. 30at Buffalo Feb. 1 Brockport Feb. 3atColgate Feb. 3 Trinity Pawling Jan. 28 at St. Rose Feb. l.at Albany Feb. 3 RPI Jan. 30 Norwich Feb. 3 New Paltz Jan. 30 Norwich Feb. 3 RPI 8:00 8:00 8:00 7:00 6:00 7:30 8:00 7:30 7:30 6:00 7:00 4:00 1:00 4:00 1:00 4:00 to wipe out the_ deficit and John Montanile's inside jumper put the Garnet ahead 24-23 at the half: Whatever it was that Coach Scanlon told his ·players at the break, it worked. D'Orado opened up the second half sco.ring with another short jumper which started a 12 .point Union scoring stretch. At the 16:00 mark, Union was up 36-23. Binghamton never again came . closer than 40-30. The rest of the game was a blowout which saw the reserves come in to not only maintain the lead, but increase it. Ten out of 11 players on the Union roster were in the scoring colwnn. Freshman Pete Gillen tied Joe Clinton for Union high scoring honors with 13 points. Good foul shootin8 by Union was a key to the victory as they shot 26-33. John Montanlle again led all rebounders with eight caroms. The final score of that game was 80-66. On .Saturday night, when most of the Union College campus was at the Kinks concert, the Dutchmen were taking on Division III powerhouse Kings Point. In a tight first half, Kings Point's 6'9\ center Tom Bruegemann scored 10 of his team's first 12 points. The Dutchmen hung tough, though, and went on an eight point run to give them a 20-12 lead at the 13:41 mark. Kings Point scrapped back and were down by four going into the second half, 34-30. Union came out strong in the second half and took a 44-42lead and extended it to a 54-43' margin at the 13: 30 point. Joe Clinton scored 8 of his 13 points in that run. With the score at 70-52, and with five minutes remaining, Coach Scanlon sent in the reserves. This was abnost a costly mistake as Kings Point came back to within eight points with 2: 12 remaining and the score at 72-64. The starters were sent back in and clutch foul shooting by Joe Clinton and Ken D'Orazio allowed Union to ice the game. The final score was 78-65. A statistic which stands out in this game was field goal percentage. t:rnion shot :3o-54 from the field while Kings Point went 26-67. All five starters were in double figures for Union. John Jarosak led the attack with 18 points. John Montanile combined 14 points With 7 reboun~s for a strong showing. Clinton, D'Orazio and Wood had 13, 12 and 10 points, respectively. Joe Clinton continues his assault on the Continued on page 11 f· Brian Shea scrambles for the puck. Pucksters -Slide By D.S. HURLEY Sports Editor While many students were either attending last Saturday's Kinks concert in downtown Schenectady or the hoop game at the Fieldhouse, the Skating Dutchmen traveled through the stormy Northeast to visit defending Div. II NCAA Champion Lowell University. Lowell, playing ib newly renovated Tully Arena, has not lost to a Div. II opponent in 32 games. Their one loss this season came at the hands of a strong University of Toronto team. The Lowell Chiefs defeated Union by a 9-5 score. This loss marked only the second · time Union's record fell below the .500 mark this season. The Lowell victory offset a brilliant individual performance by Dutchman Tod Fooare. Three goals and an assist by Fobare in the first two periods of the game enabled the Dutchmen to stay as close as 3-2 and 4-3 at the end of the first and second periods, respectively. However, the bigger and stronger Chiefs scored four goals in the final period before Fobare scored his fgurth goal and fifth point of the night with only 21 seconds to play. It must also be noted that Lowell skated four and sometimes five lines throughout the first and second periods. Fobare's outburst gave him 17 goals and 18 .assists for the season. ,..His 35 points is almost double Union's next leading scorers who are Jr. Don Beall and Fr. Gil Egan, who both have fifteen. In his 2lh year career at Union, Fobare has collected 101 points on 41 goals and 60 assists. This puts him fourth on Union's all-time hockey scoring list. Kip Churchill leads with 132 points. Despite the loss at Lowell, the team played well. The young defensive corps of Ben Maynard, T.J. Ryan, Kevin McLaughlin, Chris Johnson and Gil Egan held Lowell to 37 shots. Senior Bill Wall missed the first two periods because he had to take the GMAT's earlier in the day. Senior tri-captain Mike Merlo also had a strong game even though nine shots went behind him. Prior to the Lowell game, Union dropped a decision to Elmira. It was a game Union should have won. They defeated Elmira earlier in the season, 5- 1. The Dutchmen were flat in the early going. Elmira jtm1ped Continued on page 11 Women's Hoop Stands 3-2 By KATHY BENTLEY Sports Staff The Union women's hoop team is well on its way to a - winning season, posting a 3-2 record. After a disappointing overtime loss to Skidmore last Tuesday, they bounced back with two home victories. On Thursday, they trounced North Adams 69-58 and went on to defeat Div. II Dominican last Saturday. Skidmore's game appeared hopeless when Union was down by 19 points a few minutes into the second half. Yet Julie Miller sank 23 points and C..ay Lynch 20 to help the team come from behind to tie the score at 67..fJ7. The team pulled down 33 rebounds during the game, led by Julie Miller with 10 and Anne Fitzmaurice and Brenda Hugick with 8 each. Union lost 72-69 in overtime, yet the team should be commended for its tremendous second half per- formance. Union played well against North Adams with an astoun- _ ding 51 percent shooting per- centage from the floor. Carol Wrenn reaped in 23 points, followed by Julie Miller with 17 and Brenda Hugick with 15. Julie led the team in rebounding with 12. Ten steals helped Union to a big lead, while a smooth working offensive stall insured victory. Union's 49-46 defeat of Div. II Dominican was a stunning upset. Union again played an excellent second half, pulling into the lead aft~r being down by as much as 14 points. Once more, leading scorers were Cay Lynch with 24 and Julie Miller with 13. Unfortunately, both Julie and Sherri Kudrewicz encountered ankle injuries during the game. Brenda Hugick had. 9 rebounds and 3 steals out of 10. Union had a first time honor this season when Cay Lynch was chosen by the NCAA as a national Div. HI leader for the time period prior to Jan. 17. She was ranked second in the nation for her 61.8 percent field goal percentage and faurth in scoring with an average of 23 points .per ~arne. The Union women looked f<lrward to improving their record this week with a game tonight at St. Rose. 0 0 .s:; Q. 1- Ct: - c - I ,Qj D u t< tl .e' s 0' h t< VI ' ~ ~ ~ f.j l ' ~ p e t1 v d t v e ~ t s I (

