c 10 v c ::l 0 >- :.a 0 .... 0 .s::. a. n n .19 1/) '0 I- re .c: u '~ 1/) ·;: rc .c: u li 0 0 .c: a. Sp CXI, No. 22 arent's Weekend Issue 1877 May 6, 1982 Union Views Falters This past Tuesday, Union Views ceased publication for the rest of the academic year, and possibly forever. According to the statement in the May 4 issue, the major cause was a general lack of interest by the campus, as well as the fact that a great portion of the current writing members are graduating or going abroad. campus that is so highly grade motivated, so highly grade conscious, are willing to devote themselves properly or thoroughly to an endeavor like this, without grade credit.\ This sentiment was echoed by co- editor Ira Dworkin, \~the problem was not the lack of issue, but the availability of writers.\ another paper. Both McCaffrey and Gary Chadick, the Student Forum Vice President for Administration and the chairman of the Committee on Committees, felt there would be little trouble in getting another budget, or a new constitution approved for those interested parties. Paul Reischek, Director of the Annual Fund. The explanatory article on the front page of the last issue quoted one ()f the editors-in- chief, Mark Klaiman as saying, \very few students on a Union Views was originally scheduled to print six issues this year, as opposed to the five that were printed. According to Vice President of Finance Pete McCaffrey, there is ap- proximately $975 left in the Union Views budget, which will probably revert back to the Student Activities general fund. Union Views was started two years ago, almost to the day of the publication of the last issue, by two seniors interested in establishing an alternative newspaper. The original con- cept was to provide a forum for stories that required long-term, in-depth coverage. It was designed to be a vehicle for investigative journalism. The news-magazine has covered Annual Fund Under Way By MARCYBURSTINER Staff Annual Fund at Union which consists of all three campaigns described above, is the oldest continuously running fuod of its klnd in the nat-iool, now entering its 70th year. Money raised through the campaign, which begins each year on July 1 and ends June 30, will be used for such things as scholarships, books for Schaffer Library, faculty salaries, and other expenses of the college, thereby helping to stern steadily rising tuition costs. As for the constitutional ramifications of the folding of the paper, the current con- stitution is now null and void. If any persons in the future wish to restart the newspaper, they will have to resubmit the con- stitution for approval again. At the end of the article ex~ plaining the demise of the 'paper, Mark Klaiman ex- pressed a concern that the Student Forum in the future might point to the cessation of printing as a failure, and then refuse to fund or approve· · such topics as \Asbestos: Do Health Hazards Exist?\ \Ned Harkness: A Review of the Past\ and \Being Gay at Union.\ As of press time, the reaction to the move by the editorial board of Union Views had been limited. One member said that his professor mentioned it in class, saying that it was a disgrace that Union ·had to lose a media form because people did not want to get involved in it. Union alumni, from all over the Capital District and as far away a~ Binghamton, came to the College last week to par- ticipate in the loth annual Alumni Fund Phon-a-than. Last week's phon-a-thon, which involved· 133 alumni par- ticipants, raised an all time high of $50,018 in pledges. According to Paul Rieschik, the Director of the Annual Fund, Rich Brown of the class of '68 stayed late ·Thursday night to make the final calls in his at- tempt to break last year's record. Rieschik, a graduate of the class of '74, believes that the alumni enjoy- participating in the phon-a-thon. It provides them the opportunity to get in touch witb some friends from college with whom they might otherwise never have the chance to talk. In addition, it gives them the chance to aid the school. they will be doing. Rieschik explained that lle then gives the students \the most inspiring talks they'll ever hear~• before letting them loose on the phones. At first, he admits, students are somehwat ner- vous, but after their first few calls, they become experts at it. Callers are urged to secure pledges \almost anyway they know how\. This year as an extra incentive a group of alumni, The Inner Circle Terrace Council, have offered to match any pledge ()f $25 or more. In addition, the- federal government will match one dollar for every three dollars the fund receives in increased ~pledges. Japanese Symposium Held This past Monday marked the beginning ·of the Student Phon- . a-thon which will continue on till Thursday · night, May 6. Rieschik set the \toughest goal yet\ for this years phon-a-thon. _ He expects that the flmd will take in 1,495 pledges totalling $43,851, one dollar above the record set last year. For each of -the four nights, forty student callers are scheduled, representing twenty teams in the annual phon-a-thon com- petition. As in previous · years prizes will be awarded to the team which qualifies in two categories--the Most New Pledges, signifying any alwnni who wish to pledge this year and have not pledged previously, and Most Increased Pledges, indicating those alumni who agree to pledge a larger amoWlt than they did the previous year. In addition, a $25 prize will be awarded each night to the in- dividual student who qualifies in these two categories. Students participating in the phon-a-thon are fed a con~ tinuous supply of sandwiches, potato salad, pretzels, soda, and beer for the four hours that they are there. The students are first given a chance to eat and relax and are then briefed on what Along with the student and· alumlii phon-a-thons, the annual fund also includes · an annual Business Campaign and a Parent's Fund. The annual Business Campaign solicits donations from businesses ranging in size from cor- porations as large as GE to small stores irr the Schenectady area. The businesses are willing to donate money to the College because Union is an important part of the Schenectady com~ munity. Last year, the cam- paign raised $140,000 and is expected to do as well or better this year. The Parent\'s Fund which attempts to solicit donations from the parents of students presently enrolled raised $75,000 last year. The f By GAYLE ROSENFELD and JARED SQUIRES Last Friday and Saturday, a symposium on Japanese Productivity in relation to the United States was held at Union.· The program was sponsored by the College in cooperation · with the Schenectady Cotmty Chamber of Commerce. Various speakers were invited to relate the role of management government labor in Japan to that of America. Two such spokesman were Dr. Ezra Vogel and Dr. Val Feigenbaum. Ezra V <lgel .spoke Friday afternoon on the challenge from Student Association Ele~tions Japan to the American business industry. Vogel is highly qualified to discuss Japan's business dealings with the U.S. He is ProfesSQr of Sociology and Chairman of the Committee on the A.B. Degree in East Asian Studies and Director of the Program on U.S.-Japan Relations, Harvard University. Some of his widely read publications include Japan as No. 1: L~ssons for America, Japan's Ne:w Middle Class, and Modem Japanese Organization and Decision!Making. According to Vogel, there · basic'ally exist six reasons for Japan's economic success. His first point stressed \Japan's awareness of the problems of competition.'' Vogel cited that Student Government Association Elections are scheduled for May 14, Friday, from the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 Jl;Jj~fs.. will be scheduled for Monday, May 16, during . ·:~arne how:s .. : ' · Petitions will be available at the Student A · · 1>ffice wltlr: ·. . 1 ,·tt::···\··~ Lorraine Marra, Friday, May 7, from · ··· .... :~ Thes~· ',· ·. 11 petitions will be due with Lorraine MaJ;'r. ;e ~nt Ac\ tivities Office on Tuesday, May 11, by. ... · . The~titions will be exhibited for two days, May ~ 13, for petition chall~nges. 0ffices !()! elec:tion are Pres~!¢. of the S~\'·vice Prestdent for AdmmiStratlon of the SG~~:ee Prestdents{or Finance of the SGA, Junior Clas~ Represen~ to the Bo~ijqf Trustees, and Sophomore, Junior and Sedwr J;}ess Rep~n­ tatives. The Freshman, Sophomore, and JtlhlortCJ.Qss will use voting machines, and the Senior Class wil[\r-4te wi~tPaper ballots. If weather petmits, voting will occur in \\1Mnt)if Car- negie. Otherwise, voting will occur in Carnegie near the Pub. Candidates must submit their pictures and statements to Concordiensis by May 11th at 7 p.m. Goo!lluck to all those in- terested students and may the best candidates win. Japanese businessmen are extremely aware of changes in international markets; therefore, they can adapt their business dealings accordingly. Vogel's second observation is Japan's traditional willingness to learn from other coWltries. The Japanese are known for their ability and desire to adapt to a better m()de of production even if it is not of their own invention. Vogle also mentioned that Japanese firms send their businessmen abroad to study foreign production techniques thus, advancing their own purposes. The availability of low cost capital is an()ther reason for Japan's success. Japanese Contin11ed on page 2· ''4l• s p.9 p. 11 13-16

Page 2 CONOORDIENSIS, Ma·y 6, 1982 Japanese Productivity C I •.•.. ·. A oa 1t .. 1on,. · cts . ~ ?,.. .... ' - •• l Cont~ued from page 1 companies obtain funds for large capital investments through government loans; whereas, American finns raise money through the stock market. Vogel poii.~ed out the obvious advantages of govern- ment loans as compared to the instaliHity of the stock market. Vogel also mentioned the low prime interest rate in Japan-7-3 percer<It vs. anJ8 percent rate in the U.S. The fourth point emphasized the excellent quality.. of education that exists in Japan. Vogel noted that the Japanese are the most literate people in the world as demonstrated in their out standing scores on international scholastic tests. Also, it has been proven that the average Japanese high school senior rates two years more advanced in mathematics and sciencl!'s than their American counterparts. This fact is exemplified in Japan's astounding turnout of engineers, they produce twice as many as the U.S. while only possessing half the population. Vogel went on to accentuate the cohesiveness between the government and businesses of Japan. The Ministry of Inter- national Trade and Industry (MIT!), a government agency, cooperates with Japanese businesses in order to acquire mutually beneficial goals. American government-business relations have customarily been adverse. This latter fact is demonstrated in the traditional anti-trust position held by the U.S. government. Vogel's \final point is the dedication between Japanese companies and their em- ployees. Japanese firms offer their workers such advantages as lifetime employment, ex- cellent retirement benefits, and vacation packages at very low prices. This ''family relationship\ creates a strong bond between employer and worker in Japanese companies. Union members in the U.S., however, have customarily clashed with labor management. Vogel believes that this \family relationship\ is a major cause for the high rate of Japanese productive growth. In summing up his lecture, Professor Vogel warned of the probability of increased friction between the Japanese and American governments if Japan continues to keep its consu01er market doors relatively closed to American products. He also cmnmented that it is vital to Americans that they study and learn from the \Japanese way\ in order to remain the number one world economic leader. Vogel warns that Americans must change their ways if they wish to continue to compete effectively in international markets. Fdgenbaum, an alumnus of Union, spoke Friday evening on America and Japan: Business strategy for world market leadership. His credentials include the establishment of the Institute of Administration and Management at the College and acted as its chairman from 1962- 1977. He is the co-owner, president and chief executive officer of the General Syste01s Corporation whlch is based in Pittsfield, Ma. This company is an international engineering corporation which develops and installs major systems in the area of quality and produc- tivity. Through the General Syste01s Corporation Feigen- baum has had 01any dealings with Japanese industry and is well qualified to discuss its application to the American business strategy. According to Feigenbawn, there are tbree worldwide in· fluences in the U.S. teday making productivity essential. These are the explosion of product quality in response to improving productivity and reducing costs, and Japanese competition with American firms. The latter point was the emphasis of Feigenbaum's speech. Apparently Japan's business success lies in ,its increased productivity and quality strategy. However, Feigenbaum claimed that \quality and productivity does not travel under a Japanese passpert today any more than it does under a U.S. passport.\ He stated that the potential for this productivity-quality compet- ition rests in the U.S., but it has yet to be utilized to its fullest possible capacity. \America is well positioned to maintain its present industrial leadership,\ said Feigenbuam, \It has the tools and even now they are being used.\ Unfortunately, Japanese competitien with the U.S. market has proved more than simply a minor adversary. consumers will inevitably purchase the sat·isfying Japanese product. Fortunately, Feigenbaum had a few ideas for American businesses to follow so they can maintain their seemingly dwindling superiority over the worM business market. He ·sllggested that U.S. firms redirect their technology, reemphasize quality and productivity mindedness in the American worker, and develop the large role universities can have in instilling these quality- productivity values into the businessmen of tomorrow. \The attitude is in Americans,\ said Feigenbaum, \we just have to let it loose.\ Feigenbaum summed up his optimistic view of American business strategy supremacy in the world market on a sound and reassuring note. He em- phasized that \we Americans have been number one., we will be number one and we will continue this role through superb productivity and quality.\ IJy A J. BRODSKY Edltor-in..;Cblef to st~t,tenf body presidents. Massa and Frisfiberg were openiy~Jbappointed at·the low On Tuesday, May 4, the turn~Y:t!;,t Only a handful of Independent Student Coaliti~Jt stq{('ents and financial aid of- held its sixth annual meeting·in ,(W~f$;1 1 from around the state Albany. Attending the day long:· ;; attehded. It was felt that on.e event from Union wer~ RQI?eli'' · ·possible explanation for the Massa. Director ·of Financial · ~or numbers was the fact that Aid, and Ellen Frishberg, . many schools had entered into Associate Director. No students finals weeks. Attending were were present from the College representatives ·from such despite the fact that the schools as Syracuse Univ.ersity, Coalition is indeed a student run New York University and local organization. institutions Russell Sage and The Coalition is an issue- Skidmore. oriented lobbying group 'made Malsa stated that ''the major up of college levelstudents from thrust (of the program) was te New York State. Its governing instill the necessity for con- apparatus includes an Unued mQ.mentum in opposing executive committee composed financial aid cuts.\ Frishberg of current .students and an .pointed out that it is a common executive .director who is paid tactic of the Federal govern- for his administrative services. ment to wait till the summer Massa and Frishberg were -rolls around before it attempts invited to attend, as were many to enact legislation affecting college financial officers, student concerns. Thus, com~ because the meeting focused on rnents Frishberg, \the strong \The Continued Role of New arm of opposition .is dispersed.\ York State in Financing Higher Addressing the small crowd Education in the Eighties.\ were State legislators, Invitations were also extended legislative aides, agency heads ------------------------. and student leaders. The day \What is this new form of competition that Japan has used over the last two decades?\ asked Feigenbaum. The Japanese market appears to have a prod11ct leadership strategy that is consumer satisfaction oriented. WhiLe American .firms work towards set standards for product manufacturing, the Japanese know that \quality satisfaction is based on the consumer's actual experiences.'' Therefore, 11nton ~oUrme ..:tacult!' ttolloQtltum HENRY BUTZEl began with opening remarks and several addresses. The afternoon was taken up by a panel discussion and lobbying efforts for involved students. Massa and Frishberg Professor of Biochem ica,l Genetics \GENETICS AND THE LAW\ Tuesday, May 11 at4:30 p.m. 55016 Coffee & Tea at 4p.m. stressed that the battle against aid reductions had finished its fourth phase. The first phase concerned the 1980 reductions in Pell Grants. The second in- volved additional Pell reduc- tions in 1981. The third phase came about as a result of the CAMP UNION IS-COMING Reconciliation Act of 1981. This Federal enactment brought about cuts in Social Security benefits in addition to creating a needs test and a five percent origination fee for Guaranteed Student Loans. The most recent attack occurred this past April when graduate school loans were threatened. Action was postponed on this issue. MAY 28th & 29th Anyone wishing to help out please contact: Dr. Dolores Cross, President of the Higher Education Ser- vices Corporation, was one of Darcy .Hammerman or Rich Tanenbaum the first to speak. Cross warned that if the Guaranteed Student Loan program was cut in New York State, 94,000 students would not receive lofinS totalling $334,000 in benefits. This reduction would not only affect higher income families, those with incomes of over There will be Social Committee meetings concerning Camp Union every Wednesday at 4 pm in Strauss lounge. Spring Is Here! and witn it comes tne annual BIOLOGY CLUB PICNIC Featuring the Always Popular ANATOMICAL CAKE CONTEST \' and FROG JUMPING CONTEST when: Friday, May 14 (rain date: May 2l) · where: Jackson's Gard.ens time: 3:00~7:00 pm Food Will Be Served \ Tickets are $2.00 IJ~ .. t..' 'S~C. ($1.00 for seniors & children) f:J:p 1 , 1 ,..,u Available in the box office If • I Continued on page 3 ' KITES 164 Jay Street Schenectady, New York 12305 Phone 5 ~ 8-37 4-2803 14th ANNUAL CLAMBAKE. and DERBY DAY Saturday, May 15th 1-6 pm ' ' A Co1 thi tb sc FE co pr au pr be co m co th Wl m fif 19 cr re AI CB ta M th th fil g< A: th m L; fu b pl of tt c: pl R s, cc b Cl n rc 0] ti '\ .o· b jl n F r d

001fl00RDIENSIS, May 6~_198! Page 3 Aid Group Meets Continued from page 2 _ thirty thousand doUars, but also for this loan program would be f. Conduct -Charges Tallied j those at the lower end of the reduced from 14 percent to 9 scale. At this point in time, percent. Federal aid to N.Y. students It was suggested by many, covers 30 percent of the total among them Dr. Cross, that a price of education. Massa points period of stability be out that the State and the established so that the State private community already may assess its already jwnbled bear the .brunt of these major priorities and programs. Massa costs. \The Federal govern- and Frishberg admire such a meilt is not paying significant sentiment but feel the political costs,\ adds Frishberg. goal is unrealistic. Massa C. Mark Lawton, Director of emphasi~ed that if the the State Division of the Budget, momentum of the pro-aid warned that the State \has to movement is not continued, make a choice, it can't ignore future ·cuts will be inevitable. fiscal realities.\ In 1975 and Such a reduction as the 1976, New York faced .a fiscal elimination of the SEOG\ crisis that we are just - program would be recovering from added Lawton. \devastating\ according tG As such, he states that the State Massa. cannot afford a \sixties men- Both Massa and Frishber:g felt tality\ referring to the policy of that the Independent Student \spending for ideals,\ explains Coalition \could be a viable Massa. Frishberg commented organization\ for students to that Lawton openly admitted e:1rpress their concerns. But, no that \New York State will not one from the College is in- fill the void of the Federal volved; Massa commented that govermnent.\ \it bothers me - we are so close Mark Segal, member of the to the capital, we should be a Assembly and Chairperson of leader.\ Massa and Frishberg the Higher Education Com- suggested that involvement rnittee, concurred with could be inspired by the Student Lawton's vision of New York's Forum setting an example. A future role. Massa and Frish- Forum member concerned with berg feel that Segal is trying to ISC affairs could open up a new protect the status quo in terms channel for .responsible By ROBERT J. WIESENBERG and PAUL CHOQUETTE It. is often difficult for many college students to imagine their campus as having a disciplinary problem. A campus '' is usually a place where students live, learn, and become involved in a variety of social and intellectual ac- tivities. Naturally there exists petty deviations in behavior. Even on a campus such as Union's, which is known for Us friendly atmosphere and carnaradery, there exists unacceptable behavior. At Union, the Student Conduct Committee has been appointed to handle such matters. To deal with these problems of misb(!havior there exists a standard procedure. First, a complaint is voiced by either a · student or a member of the Administration. If the subject of the complaint is a trivial one, it is usually treated within the boundaries of the Dean's Office, stated Donald Spring, the Acting Dean of Students. Concerning more serious matters a student has two distinct choices. He or she may choose to be heard by the Student Conduct Committee, of aid programs. Segal stresses demonstration. r-------------------------------~ that new programs are not called for in future fiscal planning. On the other hand, Richard Sentora, Aide to State Senator Kenneth LaValle, conveyed to Massa and Frish- berg that La Valle wants to fight cuts while looking for alter- natives. Senator LaValle, reports Massa, ''is taking an opposite position to Segal.\ Two bills have been in- troduced by the Legislature which will be affected by the .outcome of this debate. The first bill would make seniors and juniors eligible for the maximum TAP awards. Presently, upperclassmen receive $200 less than un- derclassmen per year. The second bill concerns a subsidy proposal for t,he Parents Loan for Undergraduate Students (PLUS). If the legislation is passed the present interest rate 1982-83 FALL TERM PREREGISTRATION NOTICE Pre--registration materials for fall term 1982-& · will be available· at the Office of the Registrar, Room 2, Administration _ BuildiQg, beginning Monday, May 17th. Students are urged to promptly secure their copy of these materials. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the fall term, except for graduating seniors, must immediately give notice of their plans -to the Office of the Dean of Students. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the week of May 17-21. Some departments may announce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such an- nouncements. Course requests are due at the Office of the .Registrar not later than Monday, May 24th. A TEN DOLLAR ($10.00) LATE FEE WILL :BE ASSESSED mEREAFTER! Please be on time even though your schedule may be incomplete. Office of the Registrar May, 1982 PLEASE NOTE: ·REQUIRED PERMISSION CARDS FOR DESIGNATED FALL TERM COURSES WILL NOT BE AVAILABLE FROM DEPARTMENTS UNTIL mE THUR- SDAY MORNING OF THE WEEK OF PREREGISTRATION, MAY 20. . PHI :BETA KAPPA ELECTION RESULTS Alpha of New York Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa held its annual election meeting of Monday, May 3, and is pleased to announce its newly elected members. From the Class of 1982, members who were elected as Juniors include: Students charged . . . . . 71 - comprised of fellow students, or the student may decide to be heard - by an Administrative Review. Students usually choose the latter. Students are often embarrassed to be heard by tlleir peers. \Nine times out of ten this is what students prefer be.cause they don't want anyone to know about it,'' stated Spring. What assurance does a .student have that he or •s he Will receive a fair hearing when brought before the Conduct Committee? When asked this quesUon Dean Spring an- swered,. \No legal system is perfect.\ Spring did affirm, however, that there are built-in safeguards in the Conduct Committee .system which assures the student due process and a just trial. These safeguards include unlimited discussion with the Dean before any action is taken. If a hearing is required 1 the student has the choice of being heard by the Student Conduct Committee. receiving an administrative review, or settling matters on a one-to-one basis with the Dean. A student is also permitted to present witnesses at a hearing. If after a decision has been made a student is dissatisfied he may submit an appeal to the Dean for further consideration. However, according to Spring, most decisions have been made justly as indicated by the number of appeals shown in Table I. The most frequent offenses have been committed to Section 6 of the Conduct Code - destruction or vandalism to property. These offenses are usually committed by freshmen explained Assistant Dean of Students Michael Andolina. The most serious offenses are those committed against Section 4, behavior resulting in bodily harm or threat to health. ''We wiU not tolerate acts of aggression, violence or abuse,\ stated Andolina. Students committing offenses off campus are subject to \double jeopardy\ stated Spring. Students misbehaving outside of the college are responsible to the local authorities and will have to answer to the college ad- ministration. Fines and suspension have been handled consistently, according to Andolina. Except in the case of traffic violations, fines do not exceed $25.00. Violations of the Student Conduct Code by fraternities and sororities are handled by the Inter-Fraternity Council ( I.F .C.) hearings. Assistant Dean Andolina states that it is a \good idea that they (frater- nities and sororities) police their own matters,'' except in the case of hazing where \we are required by law to act immediately.\ The reason for few hear.ings, according to Andolina, is that most problems involve inviduals rather than groups. When asked about the ef- ficiency of the IFC hearings, Andolina stated, \the Dean and I agree that if they do not handle cases expeditiously, we will handle them for them.\ CONDUCT REPORT TABLE I Statistical Summary Type of Hearing ~nduct~nmrnUttee Administrative Review IFCHearing Investigation(s) Appeals Total Cases Total number of students mvolved in conduct cases CONDUCT REPORT TA:BLEII Conduct Code Violations 6 36 2 1 1 .w 82 Number of separate charges lod ged ..... 85 John C. Chaloupka Dina DiFrancesco Jeffrey Erskine Alicia Granlund Kenneth D. Murphey Marie A. Savoie Phyllis Sternberg The following new members from the Class of 1982 were elected: Edward N. Albro Robert D. Carlson Timothy R. Cooley Matthew Ehrlich Jeffrey Esakov Stephen J. Gatta Lee :M. Glickman Catherine Johnson Susan Killeen Steven P. Lanza Elizabeth Loose Brian A. Marks Susan Marr Jeffrey H. May Joel R. Meyer Laurie B. Mintz Robert Ostrander Diane Rosse Geraldine Spano Shelly L. Stroud Debra A. Swinarski Theodore Wun From the Class of 1983, tbe following new me~bers were elected: ·- Kyle L. Bressler Tamara E. DiNolfo Ivan Gjaja Carol Hanretta Daniel D. Nadler . Not Insufficient Charges Gullty Gullty evidence dropped Sectionl Section2 Section3 Section4 Section5 Section6 Section7 SectionS - \6 1 4 6 16 12 0 23 0 0 1 0 8 1 0 0 CONDUCT REPORT TABLE HI 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 Concluct. Code Violations ( OrganJzaUons) · Insufficient IFC Hearings (2) Guilty Not Guilty Evidence 1 1 & Conduct Committee Hearings (2) Administrative Reviews (2) Total-6 0 0 0 0 0 1 The Boasters are Coming . .. . The Boasters are Coming • • • Watc h out you sleezy reptiles! co NTACl MARTY SANDS Imported from California Spring Golf-Tennis Shirts New Spring Line 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 AdministrAtive action taken 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 Admfnfstrative Action 0 2 l •

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, May 6, 1982 features S.E.,A, Sun Dar; .. Solar Energy Solar Energy: Free fuel deliveries daily. By STEVE VERP Solar Lobby Intern Union's Student Environ- mental Alliance (S.E.A.) will soon hold a Sun Day similar to that which is observed every year on May 3. Demenstrations ·of solar technology, selling T- shirts, buttons, and literature, and a lecture will highlight this celebration of the sun. · These activities wiU provide an opportunity for the. Union Community to get acquainted with solar energy. Ln general, awareness of solar power is very limited, however it is worthy of more attention. Stone Canoeists Triumph ByLINDASHER Staff Walking down the hallway connecting Steinmetz Hall to Butterfield did you ever notice the canoes along the side wall? Did you ever wonder where they came from? Why they were there? Who they belonged to? Well, those canoes and others like them are the final product of the Unio'h College Stone Boat Canoe Club. Each year the members of the club spend fall · and winter terms building a new canoe to enter in Spring term races against other Concrete Canoe Clubs. This year, under the guidance of Professor Jewell, the club was able, for the first time, to build two canoes. Built primarily of concrete, the boats weigh 15{) and 125 lbs., respectively and measure approximately 20 ft. in length. The difference in the weights is the result of knowledge and experience- gained from building the first one, according to club president, Gary Morris. Morris, a jr. C.E. major, stressed that the goal of the club is not only to build the fastest and lightest boat possible but to learn from and enjoy building them. He also noted that although most of the club members are engineering majors, everyone is welcome. Traditionally Union does very well at the races and this year was no exception. Entering three meets, each broken into male, female, mixed, and faculty races, Union finished their.short season with a total of fifteen trophies and awards. At the first meet at LaFayeete College, Union won second overall, and one first, five seconds, two thirds, and the award for best appearance! The following day at West Point Academy, Union won first overall and placed within the top three seven times. This past weekend at New Jersey Institute of Technology, Union was again victorious, winning second place overall and twe firsts, one second, and three thirds for a grand. total of fifteen trophies and awards; a stocked showcase in the engineering building; a great sense o_f ac- complishment for all those who helped to build the boats and race them; and a lot of sun- burned bodies. ·- · •·ntry and western. A d 0 does COu . ram's 7 & 7UP.. n . s ltty in moderatzon R;d:;~~;:Jl\;trn\with SeJen& 'i!~GPA~ O!~lll(~~ CO N.YC A.MERICiiiYMISKH-A lll£ttb 8BPR~'OF · • Power derived from the sun is a free, sa~e. perpetual, accessible to all, adaptable, decentralized, abundant and structurally more simple, diverse, and in- tegratia ble with existing systems. Some drawbacks that may be associated with solar energy are its intermittency' diffuse nature, inefficiency and ex.pens.ive harnessing. equip- ment. As the supply of fossil fuels are depleted, the U.S, must look toward alternative energy sources. Goals of such a program are self-sufficiency which will alleviate reliance on foreign source..s of energy and curbing America's huge energy appetite. Because of its merits, solar ,power could provide America with a solution to its energy crisis. Solar energy presently supplies the U.S. with 5 percent of its energy. By the year 2000, estimates range between 10 - 25 percent. However, \'&.\resident Reagan's bias toward nuclear energy as a \safe economical and environmental acceptable\ alternative has all but shut conse~ation and solar energy out of Federal Energy Policy. (Nuclear is funded on a 35 to 1 ratio compared with solar.) As Denis Hayes, Director of the Federal Agency Solar Energy Research Institut~ stated, ''this lack \ef even-handedness is permitted by Congress, will polarize public opinion and inhibit energy market com- petition.\ The energy crisis is a two-fold problem -- lack of public ·education and market distor- tions created by federal policy. If solar energy is to overcome its technological, social, political · and economic problems, grass roots support is needed. This is what S.E.A. is trying to promote. Pa:rent's Weekend: More Suggestions By DAVE FITZGERAW Staff With Parent's Weekend almost here you are probably wondering what you and your parents are going to do. Of course there are many ac- tivities planned but for some, Dad doesn't like ''bleeding heart liberal lawyers,\ Mom has seen Arthur and both are such poor dancers that in a dancing contest once they were voted \Most Likely to Injure.\ It is with you in mind that I have investigated many alternative activities and then packaged them into a one-day outing. To prepare for this event you first of all take an inventory of your wardrobe. With that complete you make sure that Dad's car has a full tank and he has brought a full wallet in- cluding all of his credit cards. All directions for this trip will be simple due to the fact that Dad is not from this area. This expedition begins at Union College. Fom Union go straight up Union Street until it meets Route 7. Turn on Rt. 7 and follow the signs to the Northway. Do not allow Dad to drivetoo quickly on Rt. 7 though because there will be a few stops. Stop 1: About ten minutes after you start driving on Rt. 7 you will see a sign for Peter Harris Clothes. If during the inventory of your wardrobe you saw that you did not have enough Lacoste shirts or that you needed an outrageous \punk outfit\ then this is the place to stop. This place has everything that you need to ''Go Punk or Prep.\ Housed here is pt()bably the largest collection of alligators that you will ever see under one roof. Stop 2: Just before the Nor- thway is The Ski Mart. If you are like me then it is never too early to think about skiing so stop· here and have Mom and Dad buy a new pair of skis for you at \preseason\ prices. If you are not into skiing then have them buy you a new tennis racket because they have a full line of tennis equipment here. Now you should be on the Northway. Unfortunately there is not a single shop on this high- way. Follow this road .until you see an exit. for Saratoga. Stop 3: The New York State Park at Saratoga is a very unique place. Besides being a great place to have a picnic or take a swim the water that bubbles up from the ground is famous for its flavor. Besides drinking this water there are luxurious baths that one can go to, to bathe in the bubbling water. • Stop 4: After a refreshing bath Mom ·and Dad will want some action so this tour now goes off to the r,.aces. Everyone· has a great time at the Harness track but . you must be careful not to let Dad lose all his money on one horse because the tour does not end here. If Mom starts to win even just a little the tour stops here because she will want to stay all day. Stop 5: Pyramid Mall in Saratoga is next. This is op- tional though if you found everything that you need at Peter Harris. I will not describe this mall because if you have seen one, you have seen them all. Stop 6: After you leave the mall you should continue to drive north to Lake George Village. The Village tends to be quiet this time of year but the tour would not be complete without it. At the village you can board the cruise ship S.S. • Mohigan. Fortunately the ice melted about two weeks ago on the lake so that this trip could be made, because Mom and Dad will like this the best of all the activities. Well now it is getting late so there is only the return to the college that is left to this tour. Mom and Dad have both had fun and you have new clothes and sports equipment. Well after reading the schedule to this tour you can't find something to do with your pare~ts you have problems. If you don't think that you can do all of the listed activities then juSt do a few because all of them can b~ fun; Remember whUe shopping that besides Pa1·ents' Weekend, Sunday· is also Mother's Day. Ill Th deal the~ and few peG(: appr begi T'his num takE .pre1 Wee peo1 of .pre( und Par P• diff• sud• doz• mer shil mo uni: W:el Col He~ bus It: atrr wil1 free Dis bor libr the the Stu the im) the Un: P. car Ho Co1 ha~ We an« ins ''g thr ter ca1 on• mi stc: Ioc thE stc: ho: ]

OONOORDIBNSlS, May 6, 198S Page 5 features Humor: Parent Phantaslll There seems to be a great cleal of confusion surrounding the sudden flurry of activity on and around campus in the past few days. Could. it be that some peeple are unaware of the fast- approaching Parents' Weekend beginning this Friday, May 71 This is doubtful considering the nUinber of changes that have taken place at Union in .prepa·ration .for Parents' Weekend '82. All the same, most people are probably not aware of all of the extensive preparations that have been undertaken bY this year's Parents' Weekend Committee. Possibly the most obvious difference on campus is the sudden appearance of several dozen .serious looking young men and women wearing Izod shirts, deck shoes, and monogrammed tennis uniforms. ~ . Says · Parents' Weekend Super Sub Sub Committee Chairperson Heather Vogelsh.eise: \We bussed them in from Princeton. It kind of adds a collegiate . atm9sphere.\ Another change will be noticed by anyone who frequents the popular Schaffer Disco. Thousands. of books berrowed from local public libr~ries are being moved into the building, now to be called the \Schaffer Library.\ Stadents are encourage to show the \library\ to their parents to impress upon them the value of tlle learning experience here at Union. Another noticeable change can be found at the Webster House, Experimental Co-ed Collllllune Project: All women have been directed to vacate Webster· House until Monday· and the administration has instructed the remaining men to \generally_ look busy\ throughout the weekend. Gone temporarily are ti:te cheerful cannabis window boxes that once characterized the dor- mitory. Also missing is the statue of Jim Morrison once located near Carnegie Hall. For the moment it is replaced by a . statue of \Arthur a tall man holding a book. It seems that many of Union's Only Days Until Graduation But ••• Only 32 Till Finals! ·. social activities will have to be cancelled or postponed to make room for Parents' Weekend. Cancelled is the Fibn Com- mittee's .planned presentation of \Debbie Does Denmar-k.'\ Also, a certain fraternity'slong awaited \Human Sacrifice Night\ will have to be put off for one week. A hungry student inspe.ct Ingrid's vast menu. Jay Street: When compared with last year's Parents' Weekend Co:rnrnittee, this year's ~om­ mittee is especially active. Aside from organizing the whole-scale removal of beer cans and broken glass from the campus, the Parents' Weekend '82 Committee is also super- vising the distribution of text- books to strategic points around the college. Students are ad- vised not to be disturbed ;by open \Calculus\ and \Psychology\ books they migll't · find lying in their rooms; tbey will be removed by Monday. The committee has even gone so far as finding a Mr. J: S. Morris to-perform the role of President . for Parents' Weekend. Mr. Morris, a distinguished looking man ~eeruited for the job by .a group of enterprising com.- mittee members, will be taking up residence in the VD Crisi~ Center (now the \President'~ House\} beginning Thursday. Culinary P ossihilities Even though Parents' Weekend is only a few days away, Union College is ready, thanks to the hard work and dedication of the members (){ the Parents' Weekend' •,a~ Committee. Their feelings were best summed Up in the words of a student who said ''It really is ~ tough job, but we want to mak:e a good impression.'' Congratulations, Parents' Weekend Committee, on a job well done. ByBOBVANVORIS Staff As Parents' Weekend draws ever nearer, it becomes more and . more apparent that FreshKid and West College just don't make it any more (especially wheri Ws not your money that's being spent). Fortunately there are several moderately priced restaurants within walking distance of Union College on Jay Street in . downtown Schenectady. In order to give the reader some idea of the culinary pOssibilities of Jay Street, a .C&ncordiensis Features wr~ter attempted to review each of its restaurants {five in all). llis impressions are as follows: Longmeadows Part of the Center City complex overl6oking the ske~ting rink, the interior of Longmeadows is very green and antiseptic looking (sort of like a dentist's waiting room), but the overall atmosphere of the restaurant is very .pleasant. Prices for lunch and dinner range from $3.25 to . about $9.25. The menu is made up mainly of salads and sand- wiches, but an excellent hamburger can be had for about $3.50. Enough about the food; now for the other side of the coin. The men's room is rather small (the women's room too I suppose) but it is decorated as carefully as is the rest of the restaurant. A noticeable feature is the sign which reads \AU employees must wash hands after using the toilet.\ Very reassuring. Possibly the best of the Jay Street restaurants, Londmeadows is open daily from 11 : 00 a.m. to midnight; Sundays from 11:00 to 3:30. ATTENTION!· anyone interes-ted in the ECONOMICS CLUB Ceteris Paribus Please vote in the u~pcom ing election! ! If you· did not receive a ballot in your mailbox, - they will be available at the Economics Office. Christian Sunday Worship ' Liturgy of Word and Sacrament . MAY 9-10 am President Morris Chaplains Dennis Cox and Hugh Nevin Dr.J. Dean Dykstra, 1st Reformed Church Hugh Al'len Wilson, Organist MEMORIAL CHAPEL Re<ep1ion following in Hale House \' Ingrid's Tied with the Center Stage Deli for a very close second, Ingrid's is located directly opposite Longmeadows (}R the east side of Jay Street. Tile usual fare includes deli sandwishes in the three to four dollar range, but complete dinners are served on Proctors performance nights. Haagen Daaz ice cream and German pastries make Ingrid's a great place for dessert. A huge antique music box is played from time to time (probably to scare away the more timid castomers). I'm told the service is a bit slow at times, but it's probably worth the wait. Ingrid's is open from 10:30 to 9:00 p.m. daily and remains open until 12:00 on performance nights. Center Stage Deli A self-described \kosher deli,\ the Center Stage is somewhat of a compromise (Perrier is served as well as. Dr. Brown's cream soda). The decor is very acceptable and it takes several lunches to realize that the skylight is flu()rescent rather than solar. The sandwiches are very good and are reasonably priced. The Center Stage Deli seems to be a very good place for an under $5 lllllch. Hours are from 8:00 a.m. until 5:QO p.m. except on Wednesday . and Thursday when Center Stage closes at 9:00 l).m. Executive Suite The Executive Suite can be found on the north end of Jay Street, sqaarely facing Schenectady City Hall. The walls of the dining room and bar are crowded with many hun- dreds of pictlli'es of pre-1920 automobiles. Strings of plastic beads and dim lighting serve t-o heighten the impression of an interior decorator's drug in- duced nightmare. Prices for lunch are in tlle $3.5() to $5.00 range, but dinner can rlUl as high as $20.00. 'I'he highlight of the restaurant ·is a \vintage reproduction\ ·Of a 1901 Old- smobile. A mu~eurn would be cheaper. The Executive Suite, open from 11: OOto 11:.00 daily, is an excellent place to take someone whom you don't want to be seen with. A distant fourth. Dewitt's Tap Ro4lm If the name d()eSn 't discourage you, the food probably will. Dewitt's resembles a 1950's type diner and is open from 6 a.m. to 1 a.m. At any rate, the food is quite low in price. :Brad's Restaarant and Tavern According to the owner; Brad's no longer serves meals. Brad's does have a p()ol table though . ...

Page 6 t'!'li· • :~·r ·\ >'f•·;, .:·· -~· • .• :. ~ \~·- CONCOBDJENSr'S; 'May 6, 198S . ~rts & Culture • A Mind Explodes• TALE'NT WAN:TED All musac1ons., comedians, and/or bands interested in the possibility By BETSY MODEST Staff As part of the Minerva Committee's \Moments of Vision\ series this spring, Kenneth Burke visited the Union cam.pus last Thursday, April 29th. He spoke at 3:30 in an informal classroom lecture, and at 8:00 he lectured more formally in SS016. Many from the Union community attended the sessions and listened to Burke: poet, philosopher, and comedian. It was definitely difficult to decipher Burke's message, and response to the lectures varied. Those who were familiar with Burke's literature· and ideology were much more impressed with his presentation than those who were suddenly confronted with his \exploding\ mind. Burke centered his discussion around language and symbolic action. A written manuscript according to Burke, is not the complete presentation of a poem. Words are instructions fora poem in the same way that written music is instruction for a song.. Consequently, the method in which a 1poet writes words down does not tell the reader how to speak it. Burke spoke a lot about symbol systems and their relationship to nature and tecllnology. Through symbols and symbolic action, we order our universe. There is a cycle of terms implicit in the concept of or·der according to Burke. Ovcler leads to disorder, but it also leads to discipline and obedience, which are necessary ingredients of order. The or- dering of words is the creation of a story. Each story is the result of a personalized order. Burke compared ideas to eq)lations, which then lead to implications, and result in transformations of the original ideas. In the evening lecture, Burke ad dressed everything: behav_iorism, non-symbolic Junk Tour Off! ByVADIME. As many of you probably know by now, the upcoming JUDY JUNK world tour has been cancelled, as the guitarist Visene has been missing since last Saturday. The tour, which was to begin in Iceland and end at Skidmore received in- ternational attention, and in a recent interview with Paris Match, Visene stated: \Je quitte le groupe.\ As I un- derstand there has been some tension over the tour, but rwn( ·r has it that Visene was fired because he was over- spending on guitar picks and underspending on strings. \It's only economics, and nothing is free . . . \ said Edsky, singer of JUDY JUNK. Pasko, bass player, commented that ''I used to be smart, but not anymore.\ Lapi, the dummer, had nothing to say. To be sure, the cancellation of the tour had wide repercussions here, at Union. Al Goldberg collapsed in WRUC studio after hearing the bad news. Upon recovery, Al was heard whispering: \I can't believe it. l had tickets.\ Jeff Dinces was almost hysterical, and kept repeating ''Oh my God, it has happened.\ Rich Begin and Jeff The U.C. Economics Mitchell could not be reached for- comment, but they are expected to take full respon- sibility. Likewise, Josh Lowry could not be reached, as he was too busy leveling charges at Radio Ethiopia. At any rate, JUDY JUNK has had a distinguished history, and after a series of highly suc- cessful performances, notably the Tri-Delt \Bolt'em\ party (,which had an uplifting effect on the band), they went into the studio to record the soon-to be released \Permanent Junk\ album. Hopefully, this album will establish JUDY JUNK as the number one Band of Temporary Cult'..lfe. The band appeared recently at the \1101 Rugby Road'' C:ub. to play for a select group of avantgarde artists and intellectuals. Ainong tllose present were members of various area bands-- Scatterbrain, Quickfix, Edsky's Clloice, Oxy Five, Academic Warning, Limp Appendages, M:ike Skliar Project, and Selective Service. Knowlegable sources believe that · Visene was seen at the Sigma Chi \Punk till you Puke\ ?arty, so it's possible that J1JDY JUNK will be together before the weekend. Good luck, guys. motion, discrimination, and definiendum. There was a lot more too, but to begin to explain it aU would be no small task. Perhaps what Ro~rt Adams of the New York Review of Books has to say about Burke .is true: \He is a critic for the ad- venturous; you take from him what you get and only later realize how much it was.\ Company You think you've got it tough these days?! Look .at poor Robert-he's so confused. His friends are on his back-get married, settle down, but have fun while the freedom lasts. Have they got a girl for him, or so they continually tell him. Why are these people selling him marriage yet helping him avoid it at the same time? Robert remains aloof throughout _the whole thing, pretending not to care, yet proving his sincerity by forever trying. Things only seem to get worse as time goes on. Why, he's even propositioned by ;1 close friend, a married friend. Guess who's coming to din- ner? COMPANY's Robert is, and what lucky girl is he bringing with him this time? Come and see what Robert's answer is to his crazy married friends. COMPANY is playing in the Nott Memorial May 20-22 and May 27-29 at 8:00 p.m. Tick('ts go on sale May 11 at the Nott box office and Carnegie Hall. of performing sometim~e during Senior Fling '.S2. Wed., Thurs., Fri., June 10, 11! 12 ple·ase contact Mary at 377-2694 for,.infor,r~lation. (eampus PapedJaek BestseJiers) 1. Gorky Park, by Martin Cruz Smith. (Ballantine, $3.95) . _Thebest~~~lin~ !;_~S_P~nseyl_ril~~ set i[l Me~~?W: ____ _ 2. Garfield Weighs In, by J.im Davis. (B;:illantine; $4.95) Fourth book on the famous cartoon cat. 3. The Covenant, by James A. Michener. (Fawcett, $4.95) Epic novel of South African history: Fiction. . --- -- --- --------- ----- ---·----r--- -------- --- 4. The White Hotel,. by D.M. Tl:lomas. (Pocket, $3.50) The bestselling novel which travels the la~dscape of histeria. ---- -- -- -------- ------- ~---. -- -- --------- 5. Garfield Bigger Than life, t:>y Jim Davis. (Ballantir:1e, $4.95) Thir.d book on the famous cartoon cat. 6. ·Bridesh~ad Revisited, by Evelyn Waugh. (Little, Brown $4.95) Companion to the PBS television series. 7. Never-Say-Diet Book, by Richard Simmons. (Warner, $7.95) Shaping up with theHollywood TV star. --- -- - ---- ------ ----------- 8. A Perfect Stranger, by Daniells Steel. (Dell, $3.50) The latest romantic novel by Ms. Steel. - -- ---- -- - -- 9. The Cardinal Sins, by Andrew M. Greeley. (Warner/Geis, $3. 95) The paths of two boys who grow to priesthood. 10. Goodbye, Jeanette, by ·Harold Hobbins. (Pocket, $3.95) From occupied France to international high fashion. New ti Recommended Waiting fQr the Barbarians, by J.M. Coetzee. (Penguin, $3.95) One man's crisis of conscience in a remote outpost of the Empire. Night, by Elie Wiesel. (Bantam, $2.95) His memoirs as a teenager in Auschwitz and Buchenwald. -- - -- ------------- -~---- ----- --- --~ The Random Review 1982, edited by Gary Fiske! jon and Jonathan Galassi. (Ballantine, $3.95) The year's best fiction. poetry and essays. Wednesday, A~tay 12 Club will sponsor its annual MARTIN BENJAMIN PICNIC· in Jackson's Gardens at 3:30, Wednesday, May 12 No Admission! FOOD & BEER while it lasts .. Raindate Wed. May 19,3:30 will show photographs taken by Union students from 1980- present · 7:30 pm, Banquet Room Carnegie Refreshments will be served. Please ioin us. Sponsorea by the Union Coli 1 ..• . . ·I ~ ~- (!) a :E 'jjj ~ >. .a 0 0 J:: c. L a1

f: m 0 ..f: +- '(ii :,£ >- .0 0 - 0 ..f: a.. c IC Ill 0 .c: +- 'ijj :II! >- .c 0 - 0 .c: 0.. OONOORDIENSIS, ~4Y 6,. 1981 . Page 7 ~rts & Culture AnyQne Interested Participating in • an Union Dance,rs to Perform SENIOR CABARET By MICHAEL SHARP Contact Betsy at 377-2694 Nine o'clock Monday night, Union College Dance Club members assembled. in Memorial Chapel for one of their final rehersals before their Parents Weekend performance. The modern ballet pieces were to re practiced from nine o'clock to ten o'clock and the jazz pieces were to be practiced from ten o'clock to eleven o'clock. However, on the stage, in the middle of their own rehersal was. the Union College Glee Club. The dancers knew they had to do something .fast. After a brief and desperate huddle, club Treasurer Nan- nette Blum ascended the stage to confer with the Glee Club Director Hugh Allen Wilson. The result of the conference was that the Glee Club acquiesed the stage under the orders of their famous director. The cause of the mix up was not known, but it was decided that Hugh Allen Wilson was a heck of a nice guy. or drop a note in Box No. 433 SOON! Lynda Richards practices her solo. This 'brief incident was merely one of the frequent obstacles that have confronted the nineteen Union College dancers in their four month effort to put together a Parents Weekend performance. The L to R: Laurie Phaup, Beth Citrin, Susan Cohen, Nannette Blum and Coralvn Hertzberg practicing \Seascape.\ The Union College Arts Department presents Everything you've always wanted to know about ·college students but were afra i.d to ... STUDENT DIES Written & Directed by Natalie Baran des An Experimenta I Musica I Play Created & Performed by College Students A perfect show for you and your parents to see together on Parent's Weekend PERFORMANCES: May 6 I 7, 8 and May 1 3 I , 1 4 I 1 5 at the Nott Memorial Theater TICKm: Available beginning Friday at Carnegie Hall ' $2.00 student $3.00 non-student dancers, despite their academic schedules, were able to pur- chase and make costumes, p11rchase props, make publiCity flyers and posters, and rehearse, rehearse, and further rehearse. It seemed on Monday that they had almost gotten their performance together. ;By ten fifteen the eleven modern ballet dancers, Nan- nette Blum, Susan Cohen, Ellen Holtzman, Coralyn Hertzberg, Joanne Zinicola, Betsy Stein, Meredith Henderson, Lynda ·Richards, Lori Phaup, Melissa Gruen, and Beth Citrin were ready to take the stage to practice their first piece, en- titled ''Seascape\. The dancers had long ago learned the dance, as well as all the other modern ballet pieces, under the tutelage of Darlene Myers. \Seascape\ is an extremely graceful piece, containing many flowing and melodic movements. The dancers whirl and sway in supple and syn- chonized motions. The overall .effect of ''Seascape\ is ex- tremely soothing. The dancers were silent in their efforts to concentrate and correct the minor flaws in their actions. The only noise came from Dance Club President Ellen Holtzman, who shouted encouragement from the rear of the chapel. This seemed to be the format the dancers had for correcting and criticizing their work. Not a word would be spoken during the dancing, but after the piece was finished they'd gather and discuss how they felt about their own and each other's dancmg. After the discussion the dancers would do the dance over and over until they were satisfied with their performance . Following \Seascape\, talented freshman dancer Lynda Richards took the stage to rehearse her solo. Her solo dance was similar to \Seascape\ in its gracefulness and flowing motions. After Lynda finished her piece, her fellow dancers gave her a long round of applause in acknowledgement of Lynda's abilities. The next piece rehearsed was entitled \Ebb\. Like \Seascape\ and the solo, • 'Ebb'' was primarily a graceful and melodic dance. Distinguishing it from the other dances was that it was sub- stantially longer and therefore more of a rigourous piece. Due to the combination of length and painstaking motions, 'lEbb\ is a difficult piece requiring the utmost of concentration to keep the dance flowing · smoothly. Watch out for this dance on Saturday, for it'll be the most difficult for the dancers to perform. After \Ebb\, the seasons dances, entitled \May\, ''June\ and \July\, will be performed. During the first dance \May\, the dancers wear sailors outfits and carry parasols. The action in this dance is fast, sudden, and almost viole~t. Following \May\ is \June\, a more tranquil and relaxed piece which requires a substantial amount of acting by the dan- cers, including mimed con- versations. The final modern ballet dance is \July\, a playful and active piece, which centers around a baseball game. The music accompanying all the 'modern ballet dances is composed by Kay Gardener. The music of Ms. Gardener which accompanie.s \Seascape\, \Ebb\, and the solo respectively is named \Romance\, Rhapsody\ and \Prayer to Aphrodite\. Carol Friedman will be the pianist during the perfonnance. With a final distribution of publicity material the modern ballet dancers vanished into the night. Immediately taking the stage were the jazz dancers, Nannette Blum, Betsy. Stein, Regulah Frey, Meredith Henderson, Lisa Weiss, Louise Weiss, Marisa Palasits, and Cynnie Glockner. The jazz dancers had rehearsed for months under the tutelage of Annette Genovese. The first jazz dance is a rhythmic and sensual piece set to \Physical\ by Olivia Newton John. The \Physical\ dance is characterized by emotive and sudden explosive movements. The sensuality of the dance is ummistakeable and it adds a modifying smooethness to the strong beat of Olivia Newton John's song. The next jazz dance is set to Teddy Pendergrass' rich and soulful song \Close the Door\. This dance has more of an even tempo than the \Physical\ dance. The dancers movements, especially their arm motions, move in synche with the beat. However, the dancers motions aren't abrupt or sharp which adds to the ~~e:c~ and rhythmic pace,of the At eleven o'clock the jazz dancers dispersed from the chapel. Between that night and Saturday were only a .few more rehearsals. The dancers knew that in the days before the performance there would be more problems concerning many annoying details. Judging by Monday night, the dancers would overcome them. Saturday at three thirty in the afternoon in Memorial Chapel there's going to be one great dance performance, don't you or your parents miss it. The score for Student Bodies is all original music.

Page 8 CONOORIHENSIS. May 6, 1982 Editorials ,; Letters ,; Co Paper No More It is unfortunate that Union Views must fold because of student apathy. We feel that a news- magazine of their type has a definite role on cam,pus. In the past, we have found fault with certain aspects of the publication, but in good faith. Our hopes were that the suggestions of an experienced group would aid Union Views in their endeavor. Thus, the publication's research-oriented journalism has been most welcome. The underlying tragedy of this event is that no one is willing to take on such a demanding enterprise among the hundreds on campus. Is apathy that rampant? Union was founded to educ~te men and later women. Part of the learning experience comes from activities outside of the library. Taking on the publication of a newspaper or a news-magazine requires qualities not developed 1n the classroom. Two possibilities present themselves at this point. The most probable is that Union Views will go down the drain without a whimper. But there is another alternative. Several individuals might step forward and meet the challenges of runnin·g a publication. Are. there still motivated and concerned students at· tending this college? ISC Membership Bob Massa and Ellen Frishberg, of the Office of Financial Aid, came up with a suggestion that the Student Forum should take to heart. Our goveming body should become involved in the Independent Student Coalition. The Coalition is an issue-oriented, student-run organization looking out for the interests of independent colleges. The group's main function is to act as a lobbying concern for issues affecting these schools' students. A prime example of such an issue is the impending threat of financial aid cuts. No one from the College, nevertheless a member of the Forum, attended the ISC'S annual meeting in Albany. Invitations were sent to student body presidents throughout the State. Massa and Frishberg reminded us that Union is one of the oldest colleges in New York and she has a long tradition of excellence. \Union should be a leader in the Coalition,'' stated one of the financial aid officers. The Student Forum should seriously consider lending its influence to the cause. Many institutions throughout the State already have. Thus, the interests of our student body could be furthered on a statewide political level. Forum Charges At this week's Student Forum meeting, a proposal was passed recommending that the ex-chairpeeple of the Concert Committee be brought up on conduct charges. The accused apparently Jllisused Student Activity Funds for the purpose of acquiring record albums for their own collections. The Forum vote was ten in favor of the proposal, four against with one abstention. Those who voted in favor of the proposal acted responsibly and should be commended. But th:e ac- tions of those who voted down the issue sh.ould be condemned. To say that those involved suffered enough by being forced to relinquish their positions and to return the stolen fWlds is ridiculous. If these offenders were not caught, they would have over $200 of Student Activity Funds playing on their stereos. Are these four Forum members saying that it is alright to steal student money as long as you return it if caught? In a sense, this is exactly. the message given. When you condone a crime, there is no dif- ference between you and the criminal. @ The judge is condemned when the criminal is absolved . . • Publilius Syrus first century B.C. Power: Ploys.,, .. To the Editors: Some· Boycott ,. '· > ••• . . , \ttti·fi·et'Sffl'·w.\''~'\ \c'*\'\'\iell:,,,,,,l;.~~:umlU_btl~\'\'w.M ·'•·•· .. -. ed ·· · Acting Editors·in·Chief Executive Editor Managing Editor Assistant News Editors Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors A.J. Brodsky, Dianne Pavacic PaUl Grossman Julianne Abelman Marcy Burstiner, Doug Landon · Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Cbaris Richards Copy Editor D.C. Owens National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner Women's Sports Editor Kathy Bentley Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Rick'Sapir Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher Cartoonist David Neiblum Staff Joey Beckerman, Norman Birnbach, Thomas Ching, . Paul Choquette, Jodi Cohen, Tim Emswiler, David Fitzgerald, Donna Getson, P .S. Girsdansky, Emily Haft, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Debra Moses, Jennifer Paston, Gayle Rosenfeld, Eric Ruben, Martin Sands, Franklin Schneider, Michael Sharp, Linda Sher, Jared Squires; . Judie Steinhardt, E. Vadim, SteveVarp, Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne, Robert T. Weisenburg Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris III, Chris Eshelman Photo Staff ;Keith Dean, Janet Guiliano, Mary Martin, Pam Meyers, Norman Pflaster, Lisa Stem CONCOltDIENSIS is P,ublish~d. every Thursday );)y the- stud~ · body of' Union Qlllege, Ca'rnegie Hall, Schened:i'dy, New Y~ · 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., BoX!· 388, Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: . 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United -~DIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). ( ( .c ' c:: ·Ill

Page 8 CONCORDlENSIS. May 6, 1982 Editorials ~ Letters Paper No More It is unfortunate that Union Views must fold because of student apathy. We feel that a news- magazine of their type has a definite role on campus. In the past, we have found fault with certain aspects of the publication, but in good faith. Our hopes were that the suggestions of an experienced group would aid Union Views in their endeavor. Thus, the publication's research-oriented journalism has been most welcome. The underlying tragedy of this event is that no one is willing to take on such a demanding enterprise among the hundreds on campus. Is apathy that rampant? Union was founded to educ~te men and later women. Part of the learning experience comes from activities outside of the library. Taking on the publication of a newspaper or a news-magazine requires qualities not developed in the classroom. Two possibilities present themselves at this point. The most probable is that Union Views will go down the drain without a whimper. But there is another alternative. Several individuals might step forward and meet the challenges of running a publlcation. Are there still motivated and concerned students at- tending this college? ISC Membership Bob Massa and Ellen Frishberg, of the Office of Financial Aid, came up with a suggestion that the Student Forum should take to heart. Our governing body should become involved in the Independent Student Coalition. The Coalition is an issue-oriented, student-run organization looking out for the interests of independent colleges. The group's main function is to act as a lobbying concern for issues affecting these schools' students. A prime example of such an issue is the impending threat of financial aid cuts. No one from the College, nevertheless a member of the Forum. attended the ISC' s annual meeting in Albany. Invitations were sent to student body presidents throughout the State. Massa and Frishberg reminded us that Union is one of the oldest colleges in New York and she has a long tradition of excellence. \Union should be a leader in the Coalition,\ stated one of the financial aid officers. The Student Forum should seriously consider lending its influence to the cause. Many institutions throughout the State already have. Thus, the interests of our student body could be furthered on a statewide political leveL Forum Charges At this week's Student Forum meeting, a proposal was passed recommending that the ex-chairpeople of the Concert Committee be brought up on conduct charges. The accused apparently misused Student Activity Funds for the purpose of acquiring record albums for their own collections. The Forum vote was ten in favor of the proposal, four against with one abstention. Those who voted in favor of the proposal acted responsibly and should be commended. But the ac- tions of those who voted down the issue should be condemned. To say that those involved suffered enough by being forced to relinquish their positions and to return the stolen funds is ridiculous. If these offenders were not caught, they would have over $200 of Student Activity Funds playing on their stereos. Are these four Forum members saying that it is alright to steal student money as long as you return it if caught? In a sense, this is exactly the message given. When you condone a crime, there is no dif- ference between you and the criminal. The judge is condemned when the criminal is absolved •.• Publilius Syrus first century B.C. Power Plays To the Editors: Having been actively in- volved in the Student Forum for the past three years, I have seen people C()rne and penple go, but this year has been ridiculous. I feel that the primary cause of this is the \power trip\ which certain people are on. Fall and Winter terms Concordiensis thought it was the Washington Post. Now it is acting as the New Vork Post. WRUC believes that it is WPLJ, The Student Forum acts as if it were the United States Government-all three branches. We have seen bits and pieces of this in the past, but now matters have gotten out of control. David Ross and Darryl Seavey played the Watergate plumbers, and then crawled into the protective grasp of the Student Forum. I really wish certain people at Union would behave as if they were C()llege students and not descendants of Idi Amin. William Lloyd Class of 1982 Some· Critici.sm To the Editor: I am tired of the Con- cordiensis, through their Editor-in-Chief, criticizing the Student Forum and telling them their business when they are not sufficiently handling their own affairs~ The April 29th issue of CiJOO(Irdiensis was an enmple ~Jf the sensational newspaper reporting that I would expect to find in. The National Enquirer not ill a campus newspaper. Somewhere in the confines of versaries. For now no organization is beyond reproach and therefore those who- criticize ·others should first insure that \their own hollile is in order\. - Sincerely, Peter McCaffrey Vice PresidentofFinance More Criticism . To the Editor: I wonder if Adam · Brod<:~ky knows what the word unbiased means? Maybe someone forgot to tell him that an Editor-in* Chief has to be res(Xlnsible in the editorials that he writes and not just write arti£les t~ fill ~P spacel · After reading Adam's editorial in this past week's Coneordy ~ one woold definitely think that Jeff Mitchell alone was responsible fol' the · $300 taken frl)m WRUCfs fJ.IDds to p.ay for losses in<:U('red in the \Awesome Band Party~'. Let's hang Jeff Mitchell. right Adam? There is ·a side of the story that Mr. Brodsky ehooses not to tell: Because the party was c~ncelled by Dean Springs twice (and there was reason) Mitchell had to pay for the sounfl..lightit1g man hired from Rome Sound and for Security- even though they were never used. It was this action by the Dean that, from the start, caused Mitchell to lose the $006. Next, it was the Pr()gl'am Manager of WRUC acting fur the entire El:ecutive Bo~rd . of WRUC that. signed ()Ver the money to Jeff. Jeff was J')Ot at the time on the Executfve Boar<t~ and therefore did nf>t have authority to· take the money himself. So. who was at fault? Jeff alone or all three parties in~ volved? The Forum decided that both Jeff and WRUC's Executive Board were Wf()ng in what they did but it was also decided that it was the Dean's actions that helped cause the situation. Therefore because the blame rests in all three parties, the Forum decided not to let Mitchell off. but to let him earu the money back. Getting the money baek is the important thing here anyway; why is Adam Brodsky out for blood? Maybe the time he wastes on writing \editorials.. would be better spent if he took a night course in Creative Writing! ! Sincerely, . Joseph Laurin Senior Class Representative . ~ , Editors Note; The opimnus expressed in the editorials reflect those o.f the orgatilzatiou. We recognize our · duty . to print responsible opmtons other than our own. Boycott Urged To the Editor: Whoever coined the phrase, \Crime doesn't pay t\ never met Jeff Mitchell. 1 think that the Student Forum's decision to permit the WRUC Cabaret iS an uutrageous offense to the · f!ampus com.tnunity. He has ~lt$ady pai~ the Studl;)ntForum . $400, thJ.ts any in(i~:nme frQJl,1 the · Cabaret(oftom the first~ny t0 $400) Will go back to Mitcnell. In other words, his punislttnent- the Conebrdiensis office there ,_.----------------------~ must be a dictionary. I suggest that in his spare time the Editor-in-Chief look up the meaning of the word \ob- jective., and apply it to jour~ nalism. (e.g. its failure to puhliS:h an the circumstances surrounding the Student Forutn~s decision to allow a second WRUC cabaret.} Concerning · the Student Forum, I am disappointed in its most recent decisio~:pertaining · t~J the former co-cbair~ople of the Concert Committee, and the \'blo()d-thirstyH attitude that has prevailed throughout the year. This is not to say that I .condone what Matt and Val have done, but I £$el that they have already .paid retribution for their mistakes. The Cttncert Collltnittee is a petlfld: elt.fltmfJf!f! of the ability of · ·. Pl r· .. g ;anii~t~Gli) . . ·. itself , .·· ·. th~ . . . Forum. Yet the Forum in its kn:owmg wisdom~ saw it as their resp()nsibntty to become in·. wlved and. an issue that' · · Acting Editors-in-Chief Executive Editor Managing Editor Assistant News Editors Features Editor Arts & Culture Edit()rs Campus Page Editors A.J. Brodsky, Dianne Pavacic Paul Grossman Julianne Abelman Marcy Burstiner, Doug Landon Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards Copy Editor D.C. Owens National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner Wumen'sSports Editor Kathy Bentley Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Rick 'Sapir Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher Cartoonist David Neiblum Staff Joey Beckerman, Norman Birnbach, Thomas Ching, Paul Choquette, Jodi Cohen, Tim Emswiler, David Fitzgerald, Donna Getson, P .S. Girsdansky, Emily Haft, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Debra Moses, Jennifer Paston, Gayle Rosenfeld, Eric Ruben, Martin Sands, Franklin Schneider, Michael Sharp, LindaSher, Jared Squires, Judie Steinhardt, E. Vadim, Steve Varp, Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne, Robert T. Weisenburg Subscriptions . E. Wesley Harris III, Chris Eshehnan Photo Staff Keith Dean, Janet Guiliano, Mary Martin, Pam Meyers, Norman Pflaster, Lisa Stern CONGORDI~NSIS ts p;ubli~hed. every Thursday .bY the stud~Qt body of Umon College, Carneg1e Hall, Schenectady, New Y~ 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12per year, delivered anywhere in the United ~es ... CON'C'Ofl.DIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau ( CNB). I I l I ~ ' I ., . i n \I: c i c ... c J: ' > D 0 +- 0 .r:: Q

CONOOBDIENSIS, May 6, 198S Page 9 Letters Editorials To H3ve or Not Our Attitude 1. Ratify minutes 2. Committee reports STUDENT FORUM AGENDA for May 10, 198~ 3. Photography Club 4-. Dean Feinsot-use of Concordiensis darkroom 5. Minority library issue G. General misuse of budgets by Coiilillittees with large budgets Next Meeting: Monday, May 10-!l:30 in Strauss Lounge By NORMAN BIRNBACH Columnist-at-large 1 was mugged once. It was on May 23, 1980, at 7 p.m., the day of my Frf:lnch .final. I was walking home after work, and I was mugged. They were after. my watch: They 'had no gun and I didn't have one either. I got away with my life; they got away with theirs. It might not have ended that way. Friday night, December 18, 1981; I was standing on the corner of 86th and Madison, waiting with a friend for a bus. It was 1:36 a.m., and people had just gotten out of the movie playing at 86th and Lex, two blocks down. The light turned red, and a green van with Vermont licence plates stopped. \Hey one of the guys said, \you want a lift to the West Side? Only two bucks.\ It costs only seventy~five cents by bus. When we waved \no the guy asked if we wanted to buy a christmas tree. Both my friend and I are Jewish. \How about lending us some money to help us pay for the ga~?\ My friend and I are native New Yorkers- we knew better than that. As we said no the third time, the light turned green. The van didn't move. So my friend and I did. They ran after us with a hockey stick and a baseball bat. They didn't have a gun, and my friend and I got away. But it might not have turned out that way. ' Ratijied minutes from the previous meeting will be displayed in case on the stairwell across from the ticket desk in Carnegie Hall. · ANn L:JHl T oo V0\.1 WANT io tlO wrtetl you &Eo ol..bi:R. YovllS f\oAIJ? W'E'\-L. J:'P I..II(E 70 t3E J\8L. E iO 1>0 TO C.oL1. E.G 1:. , SUL See The HELL, 't'OU 1'116H'l /IS WEI..!. $1-\0DT FOR; PP.'&SIDErJT! Parent's Weekend Special Pullout They could have bad a gun. Or we could have. By MARTIN SANDS Columnist On the way back to my apartment was the only time I ever thought about owning a gun. I was scared. But once inside, I thought about it again. If I had a gun, what would have happened? What could have happened? I could have killed someone. Or what would have happened if they had had a gun'? Why do so many students regard Union as an inferior school as compared to other similar small private liberal arts colleges. According to Doctor I don't want to think about it. I was lucky. There are 60 million gun owners in A.hterica. Even the largest gun organization, the National Rifle Association, doesn't have exact figures, but the 60 million gun owners own between 235 and 260 million firearms and handguns. Those are legally registered guns. They don't know how many are illegally owned. I was very lucky. With more guns around than there are people in the U.S., I could have 'been killed. The question is to have and have not. To have gun control laws, and have not the easy access to guns. On the other hand, you can have guns, and have not the lawlessness that is prevailing. Both sides have built up formidable cases; yet there are problems with either one. Gun control laws, which can be· defined as laws controlling the ownership of handguns-the type of weapon most used by criminals-not of hunting rifles. Handguns are not used in hunting; they can be concealed, and that's where the danger is with them. In New York City, it is not easy, allegedly, to buy a gun. But people can. And if they can't, they can go to another stat~, where it's easier to get a hold of one. Vermont is an example of such a state. N.R.A, supporters consider Vermon~ \God's country\ because it is so easy to get a gun there. That is a problem with gun control laws: it's so easy to circumvent them. The N.R.A. is against gun control because, they say~ that will restrict ownership of only law-abiding citizens. Criminals will still be able to get guns. But there is a problem with that. Most of the guns that are kept in the house for protection are in reach of children or are not locked up. There's a thing most people don't understand about murders. Most victims arl=l \done-in\ ~Y people they know. Nice world, isn't it? People you know are your murders. They kill you, and then they're sorry. But you're dead. By limiting the number of handguns, you limit the potential number of accidental and not-so-accidental killings by handguns. Because fewer people will be able to get guns, fewer people will get killed by them. There is a saying the N .R.A. used before its present \I am the NRA\ campaign. It was \Guns don't kill people. People kill people.\ Yeah, but with fewer guns at their disposals, people will be less able to kill people. A fact about guns: attacks with guns are 70 percent more fatal than attacks by any other sort of weapon. Maranville, Assistant to the President, Union is structurally and academically equal if not superior to its peers such as Middle bury, Williams, Hamilton, or Amherst. In all aspects of education, Union is equal Lf not better than most other small, private liberal arts colleges of its size. For in- stance, the caliber of a professor at Hamilton College is equal, if not inferior to those at Union. The variety of courses offered at Union is initially equal to that of Williams. However, Union also offers engineering; does Williams- No. As far as tradition is con- cerned, Union takes pride in its fraternity system which hap- pens to have been introduced and developed on the Union College Campus. (The Union Triad-Kappa Alpha, Sigma Phi, and Delta Phi) While I could ramble about Union's strong points for a long time, the intention of this article is simply to ask why a large number of Union students constantly speak of Union's weaknesses and how they wish they could have goneto Tufts or Colgate. Furthermore, students should curtail comments and thoughts such as \I would have gone to Amherst if I were more intelligent\. This type of thought is really the only ignorance on this campus. For many Union students, this ignorant attitude does not prevail. They are glad to be at Union College. However, I ask these students what they have done to better the school. For Union to be regarded as an \Amherst or a Williams\ the effort must begin with the current students. Therefore, a realignment of attitude to a more positive direction may be in order. Last week, I was visiting friends at Williams <!oUege. After being there for a short while, I sensed that Williams' students were not the only happy to be there, but, also, they were proud of Williams College as an institution. For this and other reasons, several Union students are in constant awe of Williams College. For those students, I am dissap- pointed. Accordingly, for those students who are happy to be at Union and are p,roud of it, they should begin to openly display. it so that the feeling circulates. In closing, I would like to say that the New York Times review of colleges described Union, in my opinion, inac- curately. For those of you who are not familiar with how they described Union, I am sure you ' would find it interesting. Briefly, they gave Union a score of 2 out of 5 on the social scale and a 3 out of 5 on the academic So what do you do'? Do you get a gun to ~e ~s protectio~, knowing that 1t 1111ght be used m an argument? Or do you not own a gun, knowing that it might be able to save you? I don't have an answer for that. scale. At the same time, they gave a similar school, Hamilton, an academic rating of 5 out of 5 and a social rating of 4 out of 5, In essence, this is a strong reflection of the student body, Thus, .although the Times review may have missed the boat, concerned students should ask themselves how this review was derived. It is my contention that 'not enough students are taking a personal interest in the attitude within the school.

CONCORDIENSIS, May 6, 1982 Page 9 Letters Editorials To Have or Not •',. . . -. the rep~~lft~t .tb~<~'fi'Om ·0$$ coltected infli , , n about his own poc~t-wi\l:be· lessened . 3'1 otl:ier C-0ileges · univer- in direct prnportion to the sitie:s and has used these data to · success of ·the Cabaret. Any compare our tuition room and student attending the shuw will b<Jard with cl).arges at these be taking a portion of Mitchell's other educational institutions. fine upon themselves. I sin· All of the institutions on the list cerely hope that the entire have now announ<Jed their fee campus will not attend··or selledules and Dwight Wolf bas shoUld I say boycott-the WRUC brought the comparative Cabaret. I know I will. statistics up to date fnr the 1982· Annther point l wish to ad· 83 a<Jadenuc yeat\. dress is the fact that the Since there has been un- headUne article about the derstandable concern ~ised in Mitchell case failed to state that the Con~ordiensis about the the Forum vote on the issue was rising costs of education split 8-7. 'rhe editorial staff of generally and Union's increase the paper left this piece of in~ particularly, readers may . be formation out in order to sup- interested in the following facts. port their view of the Forum's Unh:mts rank for 1982-83 tuition \my<~pic ways/~ We have the in this list of institutions with right to know that at least seven which we compare ourself members of the Forum have 20~ remains exactly where it was 2.0 vision. Cuneordiensis should last year~ 23rd. We have be a bit more careful With their dropped tW<l ranks, from 27th t<J facts. 29th, in average room and board Th¢ student'booy now has tbe charges. In. the rankings o-f total powertoe~etcisethei}'Qpinion .. tuitiop, ro~· ~nd board ·.· ~ • . BPY:~Oft THE.· WRt!C clJ:ar~~s, Unu;m wtll drop one CABARE'Tl Let Mitchell's · ranl): m 1932413 under 1981412 punishment fit ·ms criitie! from 25th to· 26th. · Given these results and smeerely, reevgnwifig the·fme quality llf,. Glenn S~ Krutoft oor- academic program I eannot help but believe that ·Union . ·. Tuiflon Facts .- '·To the Editor:· For many years the Co.Uege.'s Offiee of Institutional Studies 1. Ratify minutes 2. Committee reports 3. Photography Club l'ema:ins .-on;e of. the best · ~'bargains 1 ' in higher eduriati®. . · Sineerely) · '!bo~.Il'~(la Vice President STUDENT FORUM AGENDA for May 10, 1982 4. Dean Feinsot-use of Concordiensis darkroom 5. Minority library issue 6. General misuse of budgets by Committees with large budgets Next Meeting: Monday, May 10-9:30 in Strauss Lounge By NORMAN Bm.NBACH Columnist-at-large I was mugged oBce. It was on May 23, 1980, at 7 p.m., the day of my French final. I was walking home after work, and I was mugged. They were after my watch. They had no gun and I clidn 't have one either. I got away with my life; they got away with theirs. It might not have ended that way. Friday night, December 18, 1981, I was standing on the corner of 86th and Madison, waiting with a friend for a bus. It was 1:36 a.m., and people had just gotten out of the movie playiNg at 86tll and Lex, two blocks doWl'!. 'fhe light turNed red, and a green van with Vermont licence plates stopped. \Hey o11e of the guys said, \you want a lift to the West Side? Only two bucks.\ It costs only seventy-five cents by bus. When we waved \no the guy asked if we wanted to buy a christmas tree. Both my friend and I are Jewish. \How about lending us so:me money to help us pay for the gas?\ My friend and I are native New Yorkers- we lrnew better than that. As we said no the third time, the light turned green. The van didn't move. So my friend and I did. They ran after us with a hockey stick and a baseball bat. They didn't have a gun, and my friend and I got away. But it might not have turned out that way. Ratified minutes from the previous meeting will be displayed in case on the stairwell across from the ticket desk in Carnegie Hall. AN() WHAT 1)0 YOU WAtJT IO 00 WI<EtJ you 6ET Ol-l)t;R. YovtJs t\AN? WElL-, :t'l> LIII.E 70 IH ABLE. 10 SO 10 CoLlEGE.. SiR.. See The WeLL , YDV 1'1161-\1 A 5 WELL SHocrr FO~ Pii.ESIDto.IT! Parent's Weekend Special Pullout They ·Could have had a gun. Or we could have. On the way back to my aiJartment was the only time I ever thought about owning a gun. I was scared. But once insi<ie, I thought about it again. If I had a gtm, what would have ha!)pened? What could have haJ)pened? I could have killed someone. {)rwhat woald have happened if they had had a gun? I don't want to think about it I was lucky. There are 60 million gun owners in Alllerica. Even the largest gun organizatien, the National Rifle Association, doesn't have exact figures, but the 60 million gun oWl'lers own between 235 and 260 rnillicm firearms and handguns. 'Th.ose are legally registered gms. They don't know how many are illegally owned. I was very lucky. With more guns ar<>und than there are people in the U.S., I could have been killed. The question is to have and have not. To have gun control Ia ws, and have not the easy access to guns. On the other hand, you can have guns, and have not the lawlessness that is prevailing. Beth sides have built up formidable cases; yet there are problems with either one. Gun control laws, which can be defined as laws controlling the ownership of handguns-the type of weapon most used by criminals-not of hunting rifles. !Iandguns are not used in hunting; they can be concealed, and that's where the danger is 1vitll them. In New York City, it is not easy, allegedly, to buy a gun. But people can. And if they can't, they can go to another state, where it's easier to get a JlQld of one. Vermont is an example of such a state. N.R.A. supporters consider Vermont \'God's country\ because it is so easy to get a gun there. That is a problem with gun control laws: it's so easy to circtunvent them. The N. R. A. is against gun control because, they say, that will restrict ownership of only Law-abiding citizens. Criminals will still be able to get guns. But there is a problem with that. Nost of the guns that are kept in the house for protection are in reach of children or are not locked up. There's a thing most people don't understand about :murders. Most victims are 4 'done-in\ by people they know. Nice world, isn't it? People you 'know are your murders. They kill you, and then they're sorry. But you're dead. By limiting the number of handguns, you limit the potential number of accidental and not-so-accidental killings by handguns. Because fewer people will be able to get guns, fewer people will get killed by them. There is a saying the N.R.A. used before its present \I am the NRA\ campaign. It was \Guns don't kill people. People kill people.\ Yeah, but with fewer guns at their disposals, people will be less able to kill people. A fact about guns: attacks with guns are 70 percent more fatal than attacks by any other sort of weapon. ~o what do you do? Do you get a gun to use as protection, knowing that it might be used in an argument? Or do you not own a gun, knowing that it might be able to save you? I don't have an answer for that. Our Attitude By MARTINSANDS Columnist Why do so many students regard Union as an inferior scheol as compared to other similar small private liberal arts colleges. According to Doctor Maranville, Assistant to the President, Union is structurally and academically equal if not superior to its peers such as Micld1ebury, Williams. Hamilton, or Amherst In all aspects of education, Union is equal if not better than most other small, private liberal arts colleges of its size. For in- stance, the caliber of a professor at Hamilton College is equal, if not inferior to those at Union. The variety of courses offered at Union is initially equal to that of Williams. However, Union also offers engineering; does Williams- No. As far as tradition is con- cerned, Union takes pride in its fraternity system which hap- pens to have been introduced and developed on the Union College Campus. (The Union Triad-Kappa Alpha, Sigma Phi, and Delta Phi) While I could ramble about Union's strong points for a long time, the intention of this article is simply to ask why a large number of Union students constantly speak of Union's weaknesses and how they wish they could have gone to Tufts or Colgate. Furthermore, students should curtail comments and thoughts such a.s \I would have gone to Amherst if I were more intelligent\. This type of thought is really the only ignorance on this campus. For many Union students, this ignorant attitude does not prevail. They are glad to be at Union College. However, I ask these students what they have done to better the school. For Union to be regarded as an \Amherst or a Williams\ the effort must begin with the current students. Therefore, a realignment of attitude to a more positive direction may be in order. Last week, I was visiting friends at Williams <!ollege. After being there for a short while, I sensed that Williams' students were not the only happy to be there, but, also, they were proud of Williams College as an institution. For this and other reasons, several Union students are in constant awe of Williams College. For those students, I am dissap- pointed. Accordingly, for those students who are happy to be at Union and are proud of it, they should begin to openly display it so that the feeling circulates. In closing, I would like to say that the New York Times review of colleges described Union, in my opinion, inac- curately. For those of you who are not familiar with how they described Union, I am sure you would find it interesting. Briefly, they gave Union a score of 2 out of 5 on the social scale and a 3 out of 5 on the academic scale. At the same time, they gave a similar school, Hamilton, an academic rating of 5 out of 5 and a social rating of 4 out of 5, In essence, this is a strong reflection of the student body, Thus, although the Times review may have missed the boat, concerned students should ask themselves how this review was derived. It is my contention that 'not enough students are taking a personal interest in the attitude within the school.

Page 10 .~· General Nottices A speaker on child abuse will t'•Jffie te the college on Wedg r.csday, May 12, at 7:00 in Fox 1 .,unge. All interested are welcome to attend. Den't forget te Come Down to 'he Hoedown!!! Parent's Weekend Square Dance, Friday night at 10:00 in Library Plaza. There will be an organizational meeting for all those interested in a new liberal learning course: \Images of the Sea\ Science and Engineering Building •room S301 at 4:30 on Monday May 10. SUNY Binghamton student seeks Schenectady summer sub-let. (One bedroom, maybe two). Write or call Qou~ at 329 Main Street, Binghamton, NY 13905, (607) 770-8092. The sooner the better. Swmner Bubletters needed! ! Two spaces available at 20 Union Ave (right across the street from campus.) Very inexpensive-call 346-2654 and ask for Charis or Sue. Two Union College chemistry students presented research papers at the- Eastern New York American Chemical Society Undergraduate Research Symposium at S.U.N.Y. in Albany on April 24, 1982. The students, Jon Green and Joel Meyer, reported on their senior research work. Jon's paper entitled ''High Performance Liquid Chromatography Separation of Polar Aromatic Acids,\ was done with Prof. T.C. Werner, and Joel's paper \Microcomputer Interfacing with Chemical Instrumen- tation\ was done with Prof. Hull and Prof. Werner. CONCORDIENSIS, May 6, 198S e Ices 1 ol) Tb~ 1 Oth~rfroQt Ceteris Paribus Attention! H Anyone interested in the Economics Club-Ceteris Paribus-please vote in the upcoming election!! If you did not receive a ballot in your mailbox, they will be available .at the Economic's office. Voting open to . nona majors interested in the club. The Club will sponser its annual picnic in Jackson's Gardens at ~:30; Wednesday, May 12. NO ADMISSION!! ALL ARE WELCOME!! Food and beer while it lasts ... ·Raindate 3:30, Wednesday, May 19. I Oq ilte I : GreekfroQt Last Chance Don't wait until 1984, when you can participat~ in the Delta Gamma Olympics, May 22, 1982. Form your ten member teams now and contact Delta Gamma by May loth. See your RA, Fraternity or Sorority Presidents for further .details or give us a call. Proceeds to benefit Sight Conservation and Aid to the Blind. Do not Delay l Start flexing those muscles and get into , ··shape! Delta Chi Band Party Delta Chi's band party will be held on Thursday, May 28th at 3:30p.m. They were among twentyafive students from schoQls in New York State that presented papers. ERASERHEAD Happy Mother 1 S. Day Delta gamma Ocean Party Anchors Aweigh for the Delta Gamma Ocean Party on Friday, May 14th at 3 p.m. outside DG, behind the field house. Lots of Beer, fresh Sea Breez~ Blue Killer Whales and an abundance of Cape Cod- ders l ! Be there-- Aloha! There will be a meeting for all Juniors who are majoring in Economics, Industrial Economics, Managerial Economics or an ID area in- volving economics on Tuesday, May 11 at 3:30 P~ in Social Science Bldg, Room 115 to discuss senior theses for next year. Wed., May 12 ·at 7:00, 9:00 ~ 11 :00 Tuesday, May 11 THE THREE STOOGES FOLLIES has been cancelled In its place will be 2 Marx Brothers films: Horsefeathers and Duck Soup 7:30 & 10:00 FREE $1.00 55016 g1960 United Feature Syndicate, Inc:. PHOTO EXPO PARENTS WEEKEND 12·2 PM SAT. IN THE NOTT Pictures Mounted and To Mrs. Marra .by Friday {7th) WINE AND CHEESE Will BE SERVED (C: fast • elect cam polit r'igh1 som• bet\ On sen a Birc viet polit mou fren cam OJ serv Rus: and Cal the the1 Me( TJ pai~ fem schc M husl Col Uni Pm Ala Ed 42 ( A visi Obi Cer Uni Crt E hec del am rig: 1 Me evE 198 ali the 1 An (A' pa: eff d01 thE Rt dii ex co th ju sii frc sh M to m sa vi rn d< Tl a1 yc

Page 10 '..,.. ··~~~~~~~~ .( .. c. \'\' 0 L ' < ' I' ' ....... \ ..._,,. .Jo • .... , .~ -~~ A speaker on child abuse will , .• me to the college on Wed- rt•sday, May 12, at 7:00 in Fox I •unge. All interested are .1elcome to attend. Don't forget to Come Down to ·t1e Hoedown!~! Parent's Weekend Square Dance, Friday night at 10:00 in Library Plaza. There will be an organizational meeting for all those interested in a new liberal learning course: \Images of the Sea\ Science and Engineering Building room S301 at 4:30 on Monday May 10. SUNY Binghamton student seeks Schenectady summer sub-let. (One bedroom, IIl:tybe two). Write or call Qoug a' 329 Main Street, Binghamton. NY 13905, (607) 770-8092. The sooner the better. Summer Subletters needed!! Two spaces available at 20 Union Ave (right across the street from campus.) Very inexpensive-call 346-2654 and ask for Charis or Sue. Two Union College chemistry students presented research papers at the Eastern New York American Chemical Society Undergraduate Research Symposium at S.U.N.Y. in Albany on April 24, 1982. The students, Jon Green and Joel Meyer, reported on their senior research work. Jon's paper entitled \High Performance Liquid Chromatography Separation of Polar Aromatic Acids,\ was done with Prof. T.C. Werner, and Joel's paper \Microcomputer Interfacing with Chemical Instrumen- tation\ was done with Prof. Hull and Prof. Werner. They were among twenty-five students from schools in New York State that presented papers. There will be a meeting for all Juniors who are majoring in Economics, Industrial Economics, Managerial Economics or an ID area in- volving economics on Tuesday, May 11 at 3:30 PM in Social Science Bldg, Room 115 to discuss senior theses for next year. CONCORDIENSIS, May 6, 198$ e Ices Emily Kiinborougb; ·. Set· you ·· ; in Brusselst · · · · · · · ·· · ·.··· ,. . ... Cntt1~t•~ · · · · FoT ThQS& people who want Gary Chadick-you will nave to C()ntend with me first. off· ny:pet;;spae~ m. ·art · >ttlt~k~lali'i.'W:itt1P1tot·s\'G.fi1Uo::'f~~li;an; 1 houl·. YtJCY~!':! l· ''W11at<ts 'tlw · .Ab&rigme • Shelf:~'\ss,.wbo'''·Can{t. • · Jodi Brenner vegetarla.n1 \ drive~ ' • ....• .· .. How to respond to an anonymous letter: · 1} Take out an ad in Concordy 2) Say something clever 3) Make sure no one sees you 4) Get to the Concordy office · on time fRIS · AND TERRY~~I'm SOOOOO Glad that youtre here this year. I love you. and Ma , .. There's no dirty words in this personal so don't yell. Love always, your · daughter Cin* derella Morn, I just wanted to say 1 love you Happy Mother's Day. Roberta Mom-Happy Mother's -Day!! I still owe you $2.50, but it's the thought that ~<mnts. I love you. Navin J. MOMMY -Happy Mother~s Day! ! You got the best present everthisyear. Too bad you had to go all the way to SCHENECTADY to see your delicious Delta darling daughter. I LOVE YOU. G-e*RK-The answer's near & may reveal a day's events that you conceal. The completed puzzle will clearly show what only a RAT would want to know. Clues abound and do surround; the key is at your fingertips. TR-Middle's have%. Ys, all 3 on inerements of ten. The fourth has a first with ends you know, the store4leaded page is where to go. Ring a Bell? That'll be the · day! Take a walk! Better yet- go fly a kitell ! ? \But there is an influence in the light of morning . . .• \ Poli 5-44.12 HAPPY 20th (DlDN\T MEAN TO SAY IT) lURTHlDAY TO K.M.H M.D.2B!l! WlTH LOVE. THE RHUMEMATE, Tim: This is your last chance! It's eitfier her or me! You have until Monday to decide or the whole deal's off. Debbie. P.S. You still owe me a ring. Dear Molestor of the Nestor Type: lf 1 can deal with 3~foot-5 jockeys who want to take me home with them. \Tinno you drive too slow!\ and carrying_ home a wasted Fip the Clup player, Pm there. AR, AR. Tim, ·· You made me love you-and I'm glad you did. Happy 13th Anniversary. I love you. Debbie Mom, You may not read this until June, but tbe feeling is still the same: have a Happy Mot.her's Day. I love you, Debbie. To Generals Cooley, Golden, and Petyak, Congradulatiuns! You all deserve it. But this time, Liesel, find somebody who can use a ruler! Love, The Pacifist P .S. Tim, have you cleaned your room? How are the ants? Peglet-Found a new place to sleep?'? Snore much?? Delta lover!! Gabriella Homey--Here's your personal. Good thing! Hope you have received some direction. DES wonder drug what?? SEIItmTt Much love, a fellow New Yorker· ERASERHEAD Wed., May 12 at 7:00, 9:00 & 11:00 $1.00 55016 Dear Mom..., Thank · yuu for sharing yourself with me. Our friend .. ship has been a· wonderful ex: .. perience for me. I hope· we are always the best of friends. I love you-Beth To my special friend-Let's not worry about anything anymore and just enjoy being with each other.\ I love you-B RAT- Is the M~BK standard equipment in the DKR? I dontt believe $0. GRK! . Moose-Your the best Mommy a girl could ever ask fort! I love you! Happy Birthday and Motherts Day. Love, Your Cow. noo Let's Go Cardiologists!! t r: For a joek, a prep, a freak, and an alcoholic we did alright. !love ya. j. Dearest Willis, I know I've given you a headache recently. bu.t its been hard .•. Just remember I truely LONG for you. Love always, Racheal LINDA: hope ou have better luck scoring next Satut\day night. To a certain TOOL whn owes me a personal: Thanks a lot. Y()u may be an apathetic senior, Mr. Cynical~ but you still need friends. You're lucky I'm a nice kid, butthat doesn't excuse you. Remember! Mr. B.-Thanks for shirts B.S.--Good lut:k in New , Vont~re Happy Mother's Day 9)1960 Umted Feature Syndicate. Inc • .. - ~ ... ..;.0 'f -\ .. --.. \'· • r On fbe I Other fro!lt Ceteris Paribus Attention!!! Anyone interested in the Economics Club-Ceteris Paribus-please vote in the upcoming election! ! If you did not receive a ballot in your mailbox, they will be available at the Economic's office. Voting open to non- majors interested in the club. The Club will sponser its annual picnic in Jackson's Gardens at 3:30, Wednesday, May 12. NO ADMISSION! ! ALL ARE WELCOME! ! Food and beer while it lasts ... Raindate 3:30, Wednesday, May 19. \ Oil file Grcekfrorpt Last Chance Don't wait until 1984, when you can participate in the Delta Gamma Olympics, May 22, 1982. Form your ten member teams now and contact Delta Gamma by May lOth. See your RA, Fraternity or Sorority Presidents for further details or give us a call. Proceeds to benefit Sight Conservation and Aid to the Blind. Do not Delay! Start flexing those muscles and get into shape! Delta Chi Band Party Delta Chi's band party will be held on Thursday, May 28th at 3:30 p.m. Delta gamma Ocean Party Anchors Aweigh for the Delta Gamma Ocean Party on Friday, May 14th at 3 p.m. outside DG, behind the field house. Lots of Beer, fresh Sea Breeze Blue Killer Whales and an abundance of Cape Cod- ders!! Be there-Aloha! Tuesday. May 11 THE THREE STOOGES FOLLIES has been cancelled In its place will be 2 Marx Brothers Films: Horsefeathers PHOTO EXPO PARENTS WEEKEND 12-2 PM SAT. IN THE NOTT and Duck Soup 7:30 & 1 0:00 FREE Pictures Mounted and To Mrs. Marra by Friday (7th) WINE AND CHEESE Will BE SERVED (Cl fast l elect cam politi right somE betw On sena Birc~ victi polit mou fren1 cam Or serv Rusl and Cal· the ther McC Tl ·1 paig fens ., sch( M hust Coli Uni Pur Ala Eel! 42 c A visi ll Ohi Cer Uni I. Cru B hec del am rigl T Me eve 1981 ali the d 1 Arr (AI ' ' I pa1 I eff, dOl th€ Ru dir ex; COl thE jU< sir fr( sh M; to1 m· sa vi m de Tl at YE

:aoNOORDIENSIS, May 6, 198B ~age 11 Moral Majority Does Campus Lecture Tour (CPS)-It may be fading as fast as the memories of the 1980 elections off campus, but the. on· campus debate over the political ro1e of the Christian right has recently escalated into something of a lecture war between left and right. On the left are former U.S. senators George McGovern and Birch Bayh - both of them . victims of Moral Majority politicking in 1980 - who have mounted a vigorous, almost frenetically-paced anti-rightist campus lecture campaign. On the right are con- servatives like writers William Rusher and Howard Phillips and Moral Majority spokesman Cal Thomas, who have taken to the campus hustings to defend themselves against the McGovern-l3ayh campaign. The McGovern-Bayh ·cam- paign has been on a broad of- fensive from coast to coast this school year. McGovern spent the fall hustling from Ferrum Junior College in Virginia to the University of Missouri, to Purdue, Cal State-Fullerton, Alabama, Smith, Stanford, Eckerd College in Florida, and 42 other campuses. Among the 25 colleges he's visited just since January are Ohio Northern, Louisiana State, Central Michigan and the University of California-Santa Cruz. Bayh, whose schedule is less hectic than McGovern's, mixes debates with conservatives among his lectures against right-wing politics. Their ' efforts spring from McGovern's promise, made the evening after his November, 1980, senatorial defeat, to form a liberal group to try to counter the conservatives' advertising. The result was a group called Americans for Common Sense (ACS). \The lecture series is simply part of our public relations effort, designed to cast some doubt on the views espoused by the ·Moral Majority,\ explains Ruth Claveloux, ACS' research director. At Notre Dame recent1y, for example, McGovern charged conservatives with \distorting the family image, trying to judge complex issues with simple answers, and detracting from the real issues the country should concentrate on.\ In response, the Moral Majority has launched its own tour to show students \we don't measure up to the stereotypes,\ says Cal Thomas, the group's vice president of com- munications. \We have as much right.to be doing it as our liberal friends,\ Thomas reasons. \I've spoken at 40 or so colleges in the last year across the country.\ · Organizational Meeting New Course: ''Images of the Sea'' Monday, May .10 4:30pm 5301 His schedule, In fact, rivals the intensj.ty of McGovern's. The articulate Thomas already has 25 campus stops scheduled' through June, 1982. But unlike McGov·ern, Thomas prefers to debate in- stead of ;lecture. He frequently_ must be content with debating ACS Executive Director George Cunningham, though he did recently get to debate Bayh at the University of Pittsburgh. Students seem to like the lecture war, regardless of who stands in for whom. \It's a hot issue right now,'' observes Walter Capps, a professor who arranged one of the skirmishes at the University of California...Santa Barbara. As has had to happen at many campuses, Santa Barbara students had to settle for· a delayed exchange, with McGovern lecturing one week and Thomas the next. Yet when Bayh and Thomas appeared together at Pitt- sburgh, \the audience really responded well,\ reports Liz Barnett, Pitt's lecture organizer. \There were some very fiery. audience reactions. It was definitely anti-Moral Majority. Some guy kept yelllng at Thomas and accusing him of being a Nazi. But Thoma:; really spoke his point we~l.\ A sell-out crowd of 1,100 at- tended. Thomas is used to the response. A Smith C~llege audience, for · one; repeatedly forced him to interrupt his speech because of heckling. '~l'm always received with . greatiriterest,\ he.says. \There are some who agree with me, many who remain silent, and some who feel they must boo and hiss and try to drown you out. It's always an interesting demonstration of the First Amendment they're (hecklers) supposed to believe in,\ It is also lucrative. Cun· ningham and Thomas average $1,800 - $2,000 per appearance, while Bayh commands $2,500 and McGovern $4,000-$8,000 for a lecture. Former President Jerry Ford, by contrast, signed for $16,000 to make an April ap- pearance at Auburn. This could possibly be the start of a new trend for politicians looking for an en- joyable way to make a loCJt of money quickly and easily. (CPS)-Private colleges .... which aresuppased to suffer the worse effects of the decade's enrollment declines and federal budget cuts - · .inay be able to cope with federal cuts much better than public schools, according to a new study of financing for independent campuses. . Researchers James Henson and Pamela Tolbert, both of UCLA, found that private college and university ad- ministrators are typically more_ efficient in raising money. Because the private colleges rely less on federal money, the researcll.ers reasoned that they could survive the loss of funding better tll.an the public colleges. Private schools can hike tuition and fees with less dif- ficulty than public colleges, and are better prepared to com- pensate for losses incurred by lower federal funding, the report - called \Patterns of Funding in Public and Private Higher· Education\ - asserts. But in releasing the most recent study, UCLA Dean Eugene Weber observed the private colleges and univer- sities have a \tradition in raising private money\ that could offset some of the .federal cuts. \I don't want to give the impression I'm criticizing,\ Weber told reporters in Los Angeles. \I'm envious.\ I Parents Help BE IN THE FOREFRONT OFTODAY'S TECHNOLOGY ASAN AIR FORCE ENGINEER CPS-A majority of parents are willing to assume ''primary responsibility\ for funding their offspring's educations, ac- cording to a study by the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES }. Most parents' favorite form of federal student aid, moreover, would be tax deductions instead · of the current mix of loans and grants, the study found. Fifty-six percent of the parents asked told NCES they were willing to take over primary responsibility for sending their children through college. NCES, however, did not ask them to monetarily define how much they'd be willing to spend. Twenty-four percent of the parents felt students them- selves should bear the brunt of college financing, while 20 percent said the government should have the primary responsibility. Parents then .got to choose their favorite kind of aid from among programs like student loans, direct funding to colleges, state aid and work· study. A full 93 percent of the. parents preferred tax deduc- tions. Work-study programs were the second favorite. Parents least liked a plan to give federal money to the states. Low-income and minority- group member parents didn't like the tax deduction plan as much· as other parents. While white parents tended to favor . tax deductions, black parents favored workustudy programs. Hispanic parents endorsed both plans about equally. N.CES, which conducted the survey in the fall of 1980. says the results probably have little to do with President Ronald Reagan's re-introduction of a tuition tax credit plan for parents sending their children to. private schools. \I really doubt if the study had much to do with the president's proposal,\ com- ments Peter S. Stowe, NCES spokesman. \I think it's something that's been on his back burner for a long time.\ \The 93 percent that endorsed the tax deduction did not dif- ferentiate between applyiJJg the plan to public or private schools,\ he says. \I doubt if the results would be the same.\ Our engineering officers are planning and designing tomorrow's weapon systems today. Many are seeing their ideas and . concepts materialize. They have the finest, state-of- the-art equipment to test their theories. The working environment is conducive to research. And Air Force experience is second to none. You can be part of this dynamic team if you have an engineering degree. Your first step will be Officer Training School. Help us shape our future as we help you start yours. Be an engineering officer in the Air Force. Contact your Air Force recruiter at 518-472-4484, SSgt. Mike· Bobrinitz. Call Collect. A vreat way of life. Please Come and See DANCE CLUB perform on PARENT'S WEEKEND _ • Saturday, May 8th at 3:30 - 4:30 in Memorial Chapel FREE II The Campus Sto.re Presents: PEANUTS@ by Charles Mm Schulz THIS IS MY REPORT ON STRANGE PI-\OBlAS, .. HAVE \{OU EVER HEARl/ ''ARACI-I16UiY~OPI-IOBIA\? Tl-\15 IS TI-\E FEAR. OF PEANUT BUTTEK 511CKING TO THE ROOF Ol='tOURMOUTH, AND MAY BE A 6EAUilF'UL EXCUSE FO~ NOT 601N6 TO SCHOOL SOME DAY ... WELL, SOME OF Y'OlJ MAY WANT TO TRY IT ANYWAY ...

' ! I I I l I \ ·1 ' i I I OONOORDIENSISJ May 6, 1982 ~age 11 Moral Majority Does Campus Lecture Tour (CPS)-It may be fading as fast as the memories of the 1980 elections off campus, but the on- campus debate over the political role of the Christian right has recently escalated into something of a lecture war between left and right. On the left are former U.S. senators George McGoverR and Birch Bayh - both of them victims of Moral Majority politicking in 1980 - who have mounted a vigorous, almost frenetically-paced anti-rightist campus lecture campaign. On the right are con- servatives like writers William Rusher and Howard Phillips and Moral Majority spokesman Cal Thomas, whe have taken to the campus hustings to defend themselves against the McGovern-Bayh campaign. The McGovern-Bayh cam- paign has been on a broad of- fensive from coast to coast this school year. McGovern spent the fall hustling from Ferrum Junior College in Virginia to the University of Missouri, to Purdue, Cal State-Fullerton, Alabama, Smith, Stanford, Eckerd College in Florida, and 42 other campuses. Among the 25 colleges he's visited just since January are Ohio Northern, Louisiana State, Central Michigan and the University of California-Santa Cruz. Bayh, whose schedule is less hectic than McGovern's, mixes debates with conservatives among his lectures against right-wing politics. Their · efforts spring from McGovern's promise, made the evening after his November, 1980, senatorial defeat, to form a liberal group to try to counter the conservatives' advertising. The result was a group called Americans for Common Sense (ACS). \The lecture series is simply part of our public relations effort, designed to cast some doubt on the views espoused by the Moral Majority,\ explains Ruth Claveloux, ACS' research director. At Notre Dame recently, for example, McGovern charged conservatives with \distorting the family image, trying to judge complex issues with simple answers, and detracting from the real issues the country should concentrate on.\ In response, the Moral Majority has launched its own tour to show students \we don't measure up to the stereotypes,\ says Cal Thomas, the group's vice president of com- munications. \We have as much right to be doing it as our liberal friends,\ Thomas reasons. \I've spoken at 40 or so colleges in the last year across the country.\ Organizational Meeting New Course: ''Images of the Sea'' Monday, May 10 4:30pm 5301 His schedule, in fact, rivals the intensj.ty of McGovern's. The articulate Thomas already has 25 campus stops scheduled· through June, 1982. But unlike McGovern, Thomas prefers to debate in- stead of lecture. He frequently. must be content with debating ACS Executive Director George Cunningham, though he did recently get to debate Bayh at the University of Pittsburgh. Students seem to like the lecture war, regardless of who stands in for whom. \It's a hot issue right now,\ observes Walter Capps, a prefesser who arranged ane of the skirmishes at the University of California-santa Barbara. As has had to happen at many campuses, Santa Barbara students had to settle for a delayed exchange, with McGovern lecturing one week and Thomas the next. Yet when Bayh and Thomas appeared together at Pitt- sburgh, \the audience really responded well,\ reports Liz Barnett, Pitt's lecture organizer. \There were some very fiery audience reactions. It was definitely anti-Moral Majority. Some guy kept yelling at Thomas and accusing him of being a Nazi. But Thomas really spoke his point well.\ A sell-out crowd of 1,100 at- tended. Thomas is used to the response. A Smith College audience, for one, repeatedly forced him to interrupt his speech because of heckling. \I'm always received with great interest,\ he says. \There are some who agree with me, many who remain silent, and some who feel they must boo and hiss and try to drown you out. It's a!lways an interesting demonstration of the First Amendment they're (hecklers) supposed to believe in.\ It is also lucrative. Cun- ningham and Thomas average $1,800 - $2,000 per appearance, while Bayh commands $2,500 and McGovern $4,000 - $8,000 for a lecture. Former President Jerry Ford, by contrast, signed for $16,000 to make an April ap- pearance at Auburn. This could possibly be the start of a new trend for politicians looking for an en- joyable way to make a lot of money quickly and easily. Private Sch,ools (CPS)-Private colleges -- which are supposed to suffer the worse effects of the decade's enrolhnent declines and federal budget cuts - may be able to cope with federal cuts much better than public schools, according to a new study of financing for independent campuses. Researchers James Henson and Pamela Tolbert, both of UCLA, found that private college and university ad- ministrators are typically more efficient in raising money. Because the private colleges rely less on federal money, the researchers reasoned that they could survive the loss of funding better than the public colleges. Private schools can hike tuition and fees with less dif- ficulty than public colleges, and are better prepared to com- pensate for losses incurred by lower federal funding, the report - called \Patterns of Funding in Public and Private Higher Education\ - asserts. But in releasing the most recent study, UCLA Dean Eugene Weber observed the private colleges and univer- sities have a ''tradition in raising private money\ that could offset some of the federal cuts. \I don't want to give the impression I'm criticizing,'' Weber told reporters in Los Angeles. \I'm envious.\ Parents Help BE IN THE FOREFRONT OF TODAY'S TECHNOLOGY AS AN AIR FORCE ENGINEER CPS-A majority of parents are willing to assume ''primary responsibility\ for funding their offspring's educations, ac- cording to a study by the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES). Most parents' favorite form of federal student aid, moreover, would be tax deductions instead of the current mix of loans and grants, the study found. Fifty-six percent of the parents asked told NCES they were willing to take over primary responsibility for sending their children through college. NCES, however, did not ask them to monetarily define how much they'd be willing to spend. Twenty-four percent of the parents felt students them- selves should bear the brunt of college financing, while 20 percent said the government should have the primary responsibility. Parents then got to choose their favorite kind of aid from among programs like student loans, direct funding to colleges, state aid and work- study. A full 93 percent of the parents preferred tax deduc- tions. Work-study programs were the second favorite. Parents least liked a plan to give federal money to the states. Low-iRcome and minority- group member parents didn't like the tax deduction plan as much as other parents. While white parents tended to favor tax deductions, black parents favored work-study programs. Hispanic parents endorsed both plans abeut equally. NCES, which conducted the survey in the fall of 1980, says the results probably have little to do with President Ronald Reagan's re-introduction of a tuition tax credit plan for parents sending their children to private schools. \1 really doubt if the study had much to do with the president's proposal,\ com- ments Peter S. Stowe, NCES spokesman. \I think it's something that's been on his back burner for a long time.\ \The 93 percent that endorsed the tax deduction did not dif- ferentiate between applying the plan to public or private schools,\ he says. \I doubt if the results would be the same.\ Our engineering officers are planning and designing tomorrow's weapon systems today. Many are seeing their ideas and concepts materialize. They have the finest, state-of- the-art equipment to test their theories. The working environment is conducive to research. And Air Force experience is second to none. You can be part of this dynamic team if you have an engineering degree. Your first step will be Officer Training School. Help us shape our future as we help you start yours. Be an engineering officer in the Air Force. Contact your Air Force recruiter at 51 H--l7 2-..:t-4~4. SSgt. Mike Bobrinitz. Call Collect. A l,lf'eot wo y of life . Please Come and See DANCE CLUB perform on PARENT'S WEEKEND · Saturday, May 8th at 3:30 .. 4:30 in Memorial Chapel FREE II The Campus Store Presents: PEANUTS@ by Charles M. Schulz THIS 15 MY REPORT ON STRANGE PI-\OBIAS ... HAVE '1'0\J EVER HEARD ''ARACH113llTVROPHOBIA\? THIS IS THE FEAR OF PEANUT BUTIER. STICKING TO TI-lE ROOF 0~ '/OUR MOUTH I AND MAY BE A BEAUT! ~UL EXCUSE FOR NOT GOING TO SCHOOL SOME DAY ... WELL, SOME OF YOU MAY WANT TO TRY II ANYWAY ...

. I Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, May 6 1 1982 Sheryl Katz, now with 11 goals this season. Women's Lax Splits Pair By SHARON PEARL Sports Staff Women's Lacrosse came out o·f this week 1-1 beating Castleton, 5-4, and losing to a very strong Middlebury team, 6-11, bringing their overall record to 2-6 with four games left in the season. Holly Howard scored two goals in the first half which left Union down 3-2 at the end of that half. Holly scored twice more and Sheryl Katz made a goal bringing the final tally to 5-4. The team was happy with the win and they feel they played fairly well. Coach Marty Morrison remarked that we tend to play at the level of our opponents, which in Castleton's case is not very high. The team played a much more skilled game against Middlebury though they lost 6- 11. The game was clean and open, with sharp passing and shooting. Johanna Briggs, Union'S senior goalie, had an exceptional second half with many saves. Four of Union's goals were by Holly \sharp- shooter\ Howard, one by Liz Garda, and one by Emily Monasson. Marty was happy individual performance as well as the team's .play overall. Our defensive play has im- proved over the Season and our defensive unit has matured quite a bit. Sophomores Roberta Stein, Cay Lynch and Jac}de Tario compose the defense., and their increased skill has helped the team. The JV squad also lost to a very strong Middlebury team 2- 11. This score is greatly im- proved over last year's score of 3-25 and the team played welL The score at the end of the first half was 9~, and scoring was- held at 2\2 for the second half bringing the final score to 11-2. Emily Haft and Lynn Pietrocola scored one goal each to make up Union's two, The team played well, l>ut was not able to overcome Middlebury's sharp game. Freshman goalie Chris Schaffer is doing well and is still improving her game. The entire JV squad is playing better-the defense Wlderstands the zone and the attack is passing better. Both individual players and the team as a unit have imprQved immensely over the season. Dutchwomen Showing Spunk The junior varsity lost a close game to RPI by a score of 2-3. Coach Morrison thought it was due to psyche and the team not being ready to play. RPI's team had several players with high sclfool experience and an ex- cellent goalie, while many of Union's players have picked up the sport in college. Although Union outplayed their 9pponent and controlled the ball the majority of the game, they had a hardtime scoring. Emily Haft and Kelly Green each had one goal. The teams now face Hamilton (away) today, Oneonta (away) on Friday, Russell Sage (home) on Saturday, and their final game of the season against Hartwick on Monday at home. Try to see them play before it's too late! · ByJ.G.&B.C. Sports Staff The women's track team suffered a double loss on Thursday, but opponents Albany and Binghamton en- countered stiff competition. Union iriilividuals performed well, but the team lacked the depth to overpower the two well-established. teams. gained by Janice Glidden, who took third in the high jump and fourth in the long jump. At the same time, throwers Janice Glidden and Beth Chauncey placed first and third respec- tively in both the discus and javelin, Chauncey taking fourth in the shot put as well. Union got off to a strong start with JoAnne Feeney clearing 4'8\ in the high jump to secure firs.t p1ace. Other points were Meanwhile, the Dutchwomen were putting up a fight on the tra~k as well. Inge Stockman breezed through the 1500 meter run with a winning time of 5:08.6. Teammate Daniliele Cherniak endured the grueling 14 laps of the 5000 meter run to Arts & Science Majors! All dressed up, with nowhere to go? It's not too late to think about Northeastern's MS in Professional Accounting Program. This Program is a 15-month course of study designed for graduates of Arts and Sciences and other non- accounting majors. It's a full-time grad- uate program divided into five quarters, preparing you for the CPA Examination and a career in public accounting. The third quarter is an internship where you are employed by a leading public accounting firm such as Arthur Andersen, Alexander Grant, Coopers & Lybrand, Peat Marwick, or Price Waterhouse. In ad- dition to student loans and tuition scholarships, significant financial aid is provided by internship earnings, which averaged $4,500 for the three month internship last year. - You still have time to apply for the class beginning in June. No prior accounting course is required. Send for brochure, or call (617) 437-3244. Please send more information about the MS in Accounting Program. Graduate School of Professional Accounting Northeastern University 360 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 0211.5 w Name ------------------------------------ Address City/State/Zip ----------------- College ____________ Class ___ _ -, I I I I I I I I I I I I I I .I :~ J Northeastern University i ····- IN BOSTON 1 I Northeastern UnJverslty is an equal opportunity /affirmative action 1 ! ___________ ~u~t~n~ ~~~~.t~n_:n~e~~_::: __________ _J secure. second place (19:24.4). Andrea Greif, Union's sole competitor in the sprints, dashed 100 meters to cross the finish line in 13.6 seconds, assuring the Dutchwomen another second place. Mei Ching Tse ran well, showing her support for the team by racing in the 1500 meter run. Due to a lingering m]ury, Audrey Churchill was unable to com- pete. Coach Russ· Ebbets was encourag.ed by their per-· formances and is ''looking 'forward to an even more suc- cessful season next year.'' .HURRY! The. deadline for teams and money is on May 10. Organize your team of 10 for upcoming DELTA GAMMA OLYMPICS on May _22nd. Ask your R.A. for details so you won't be s~rry you missed out on ·all the fun! A Musica.l Comedy To be Performed May 20-22 & May 27-29 Tickets go on Sale May 13th. Don't Miss It! ! The five g< these' OneoiJ team filled in the losing Thurs one, l the t< The l team injur again hadtl In tht outfiE one 1 tured New Inth1 Tc F1 Sc: N

CONCORDIENSIS, May 6, 198~ Page 13 , Softball Beats ;Four By LINDA GUTtN . Spotts Staff The softball team survived five games in six days (and. on the seventh' day they rested}. At Oneonta on Wednesday the team suffered another error~ filled contest, but Unian stayed in the game ll!ltil the last inning, losing a disappointing 8~17. On Thursday the team won a close one, 12-11, holding St. Ros~ in the top of the seventh inning. The New Paltz State softball team suffered too many serious injuries during tlleir game against Union on Friday and had to forfeit in the sixth inning. In the first inning two of their outfielders collided, talt.ing out one. girl wit)l a possible frM- tured collar bone and leaving New Paltz with an empty bench. In the siXth. their shortstop was nailed in the knee by a line drive and the game was stopped with Union ahead 21-5. Although the score doesn't show it, New Paltz never gave up and played a respectable game. Saturday morning saw the Union women 1mt bright and early for a game with Russell Sage. Union won, but by the skin of their teeth, H· 10, in another error-riddled game. Individually, the team members spent all day Sunday, starting at dawn, going over the mental strategy that was going to be required to bear the Skidmore team on Monday. In the game against Skidmore, the lead wa~ exchanged .. almost handed to the other team-a few times, but some clutch playing in the bottom of the seventh inning allowed the team to pull out a 15-14 win. As .far as. individual play goes, This Week in WOME;N'S SPORTS Today Friday Saturda,y Monday Women's Lacrosse at Hamilton Softba Uat Hamilton Women's Lacrosse at Oneonta Women's Lacrosse vs Russel·l Sage Women's Lacrosse vs. Hartwick 4:00 3:30 Kelly Liese hit three triples 'along with many other hits, Carol· Wrenn and Dina Pliotis pounded out homeruns, and Ruth Ewing went 3-3 with a single which became a homerun, and she also hit in the game-winning RBI against Skidmore with a bottom-of-the- seventh single. Against Skid- more, awesome base running was the name of the game with stealing and a lot of capitalizing on errors and passed balls, which allowed a number of runners to score from third. In one case~ the runners from both third and second, Carol Wrenn and Linda Gutin, scored while in another case a passed ball enabled Dina Pliotis to score the tying run. Throughout the week, Kirsten Peterson and Dina Pliotis both did amazing pitching jobs, keeping the other teams con- fused at all times. Barb Bailey, Peg Petro and JoAnne Dolan all showed some heads-up infield play, coming through for the team repeatedly. Carolyn Bigda, Brenda Hugick, Peg , Layden, Linda Gutin, Cindy Buddenhagen and Karen Roth also demonstrated their ver- satility by playing a variety of positions. Carolyn played outfield as well as catcher, Brenda made a nice transition Brenda Hugick takes a mighty swing. from outfield to shortstop, Peg out for the rest of the season. played a strong outfield, Unda Her incredible jumping and got her first three hits of the stretching ability, her hitting season and alternated betwe~n and walk-drawing strength and playing right and leftfield. · her peppy personality will be Cindy Came out swinging with missed. Shortstop Peg Petro twopowerfulsingles,.andKaren has been having trouble with a Roth did a fine job of catching. knee problem and catcher- outfielder Carolyn Bigda is As of presstime the team's recovering from a rare tropical record stands at 7-3, but on disease. The whole team wishes Wednesday the team will play a that all their problems would go doubleheader at Albany State, a away and they could be whole formidable opponent with a once again. Albany State will be good record. Unfortunately the tough, but the Union team has team has been plagued with shown that they have a lot of injuries and illnesses of late. depth and aspire to return on Carol Wrenn, the senior first Wednesday with two more wins baseman, suffered a fractured to their name and thus end the nos~ ag(linst Skidmore and is season with a 9-3 record. H you have at least two years of college left, you can spend six weeks at our Army ROTC Basic Camp this summer and earn ~pproximately $600. And if you qualify, you can enter the ROTC 2- Year Program this fall and receive up to $1,000 a year. But the big payoff happens on graduation day. That's when you receive an officer's commission. So get your body in shape (not to mention your bank account). Enroll in Army ROTC. For more information, contact your Professor of Military Science. ARMY ROTC. lEAl LYOUCAM BE. Call Bill Terhune 783-2571

Page 14 OONOOBDIENSIS, May 6,,1982 Intramural Boxing Finals • By DAVE PACE Sports Staff The finals of this year's Intramural boxing matches were held last Thursday night. The first fight matched Carl Aikens and Les Kennedy while the heavyweight battle was between Jeff Feigelson and Brad Nicholson. The opening fight started out cautiously. As the first round progressed, Aikens started landing more punches · than Kennedy was able to. Carl won the round according to all four judges. However, Kennedy was not about to accept defeat. He carne out very aggressively in the second round. Les landed a number of heavy blows to Aikens' head and dominated the rotmd despite a few good jabs by Aikens. At this point, Kennedy was ahead in total points by one. The deciSive third round started out even. Both fighters used every ounce of their energy __ because they knew how close the fight was. With about a minute to go in the fight, Kennedy seemed to tire. Aikens took advantage of this weariness and controlled the remainder of the fight. He was declared a unanimous winner by a close score of 115- 112. The second fight of the night. matching Jeff· Feigelson and Brad Nicholson, started out slowly. Nicholson's strategy was to feel out the two-time defending champion. He seemed to be waiting for Feigelson to make a mistake and then take advantage of it. However, Feigelson 'remained very cautious as he used his left jab effectively thr<H;Jghout the round. The first round ended quietly. Midway through the second round, NicholS<Jn sud- denly threw a flurry of punches which caught Feigelson off guard. After this, the fighters slugged it out evenly for the remainder of the round. Entering the final round, both hexers knew the fight was extremely close. With 1 1 h minutes to go in the fight, it seemed that Nicholso:o's arms dropped a bit, cr-eating an opening for Feigelson to . his opponent's head. J e.ff took advantage of this and connected on numerous jabs to Brad's face. This proved to be the deciding factor as Feigelson won the third round on all four cards after the fighters had split the first two rounds. Feigelson successfully defended his championship for the second consecutive year. Special thanks to organizer . Carl Alkens landing a.lefton Les Kennedy en route to a close 115- 112 l~ight-heavyweight victory. Eric Serrilli (with ball land Wayne Godlinheadup the field. Gary Wenner, referee John Montanile, and judges Pete Brown, Dave Zaltas, John Jarosak, and Dave Ruden. Jeff Feigelson escaping a Brad Nicholson uppercut while defending his heavyweight title. Rugby: 3rd in Tourney The Social. Committee Presents Continued from page 15 and Union won the game and finished the tournament strong to take third with a 3.;() victory over MIT. Looking back on the tour- nament and Union's play, one word can be used to charac- terize the Garnet play: defense. After playing three games, the Club allowed only six: points all day, and those were to the experienced club from Mad River which competes regularly in a league. The fact that the smallest club in the tournament--in height and weight-could hold back the talent that was shown is a great achievement in itself. This can be attributed to two things: being in shape and practice. 5 u p p 0 R T UNION Spo Rts Winning the tourney was Norwich University with Plymouth State second. Also playing was the Massachusetts Maritime Academy. This week the 5-l Union RFC will be h()me against the Rhinebeck Rugby Club on Saturday afternoon. ROLLERSKA liNG May 13th 12-4 pm. PARENT'S WEEKEND Union College Men and Women's Glee Clubs present Our F o/k Heritage Saturday, M.ay 8, 8:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel ADMISSION: STUDENTS FACULTY - FREE PARENTS GENERAL PUBLIC·: s2.o.o 1 I UI te~ Tt .ffi< wi m ·a~ sh 0 Sil +- ·o of .J:: a. th c:: rtl C1l d~ Cl .J:: Cl - a B1 lo m SE! D Sl: az D tll fo 0 tt H h· 0 .... 0 .I: 0. c: ttl cv Cl . .I: .... s 'Qj ~ f t< I' 1 f I t I f f t I ~ ~

~ 0 ..c 0. s:: IU 8 ..c - Q) ~ OONOORDIJJJNSIS, May.6, .198S Page 15 • Track Hosts NY St. Meet ByD.D. Sports Staff on Wednesday, April Union College varsity team had its record The tracksters ·. to ----·-··· meet with RPI d\J.tlng with Albany making up the . ·against RPI, . ....,· •nv·•·• shy of the of Albany the Dutchmen, .. u ... ·-.. ... The lone bright \nn''\ .. day carne ih the Chris Howd won a toss of 174'8\ Bertagna · · · long jump with nwnber of rmtcnrnerr,,; second place Dunn picked up a seconds in the shot and the discus ( 132'1' Denny Contois ran a 1 the 800 meter run, good 1, the Dutchmen ed to Hamilton, New to participate in the ,,,,,,·vva 6 au;; Open. Eddie Arnheiter was the top ·finisher for the Dutchmen with a third place finish in the 3000 meter steeplechase (10: 11). Two Dutchmen qualified for the State meet on their way to 136~6\ while Denny Contois blazed a 1:57 in the 800 meter to grab another fourth place. After the race, Contois quipped, \I guess I've turned some pessimists into believers. I never doubted that I'd qualify.\ Ken Holman added a fifth .place · finish in the 400 intermediate hurdles . with a personal best time of 59.9 and the mile relay team .of Beb Stelmack, Scott Buffington, Dave Dellehunt and Denny Contois crossed the line fifth in 3 : 36.2. Rounding out the scoring for Union were Bill Lichtman and Mark Dunn who both recorded sixth places: Lichtman in the javelin (164'2\) and Dwm in the shot put (44'8\). Corne out this weekend, May 7 and 8, to watch the top track and field athletes in the state compete in the New York State Track and Field Cham- pionships; which is being held at UnionCollege. So, come out and SUPPORT THE UNION TRACKMEN! . Trackmen Dennis Contois (L) and Dave Del:lehunt (Rl will be competing in this weekend's state meet at Union. for another second nlace,=:~·snctt'i Other second place for the Dutchmen were: Ken Holman in the 400 intermediate hurdles (60.8), Paul foJ,Jrth place finishes: Mark ----------------_.:..---------------------, Dunn was fourth in the discus r- with a personal best throw of Rugby at 5-I By S.C. Sports Staff The Rugby Footb!lll Club swept the consolation rotmd to finish third after journeying up to Northfield, Vermont, for the Norwi€h Invitational Rugby Tournament. After losing the first game to the Mad River Rugby Club, the team came back to defeat the Norwich Reptiles and the club from MIT for a strong finish at third. In the opening round, Union faced a strong, ex:perienced team from Mad River, Ver- mont. Here Union lost its first game of the season by a tight score of 6-3 in what became a game of controversy. The first disputed call came mid-way in the first li!.alf when Lee Waxman broke ·down the sideline for what looked like a Union try. This was c~;~.lled back though as Mad River argued that Wax:- man had stepped out and the referee agreed. Union argued that he did not step out, but because the touch judge was out of position, a clear call was not made and the try was void. Minutes later Mad River had the ball down deep in the Union zone. The Garnet defenders who held strop.g all day were .able to stop the Mad River Club· from a try, but not from putting itself up on the scoreboard. Bringing the ball out into a clearing, a Mad River linesman was able to get off a drop-kick which he made good putting his team up by a score of 3-0. In the second half Union came out tough and determined to score. Early into the half the Garnet squad worked the ball downfield, but was stopped outside Mad River's twenty-five yard line because of a penalty on the defense; At this point Union decided to kick for goal and 'l'om Conway made good the penalty kick as he tied the score at 3-3. Soon after, another bit of controversy arose. Again it was Waxman who broke a run and took the gall two-thirds of the field for what appeared to be a try. This time the refere.e claimed that a Garnet rugger had illegally obstructed a Mad River player and ~gain the run was called back. With a couple of minutes of play left and the game looking like it would go into overtime, a tired Mad River team was able to break the ttie. The Vermont club was allowed a penalty kick after a Union infraction in their own territory. The kick was good giving Mad River a 6-3win and Union's first loss of the season. Mqving into the consolation round, the Garnet squad next played the Norwich Reptiles, a strong, aggressive team in which the average height was six feet, two inches and the average weight over 220 lbs. In this game Union totally out- skilled the Reptiles as it defeated them by a score of 9-0. All scoring came in the first half. Union scored its try as the serum pushed the heavy 'Nor- wich serum over into the goal. After sorting through the pile ·of players, it was Keith Dean who · had possession of the ball with it down for a Union .try. Brad Nicholson converted a tough extra-points kick and the score was 6-0. Later in the half, Nicholson was given an attempt at a penalty kick. This he made good though he was kicking with a bad angle, and Union had its nine points. Winning by a score of 9-0, Union not only eliminated the Reptiles, but also f01md itself in the final game of the con- solation round playing for third place. In this final game, Union had to play against the MIT Rugby Club in what was the most exciting game of the entire tournament. In a defensive struggle, Union was able to pull out the game on a penalty kick in overtime to win by a score of 3-0. After outplaying the op- position but failing to score, Union was forced into a deadlock with MIT. The cap- tains then elected to play a sudden-death overtime. The Garnet team truly took ad- vantage of this decision. It quickly gained possession of the ball and brought it upfield towards the goal. With less than twominutesinto pla~, a penalty was called on MIT alloWing Union a kick. Tom Conway was given the task against a strong, ·gusty wind. Under the pressure, Conway easily split the uprights Continued on page.l4 Athlete of the.Week By MIKE SHARP Sports Staff Athlete of the Week honors are shared by Janice Glidden of the Union College Wamen's Track Team and Tom Cqnway of the Union College Rugby Football Club. This past weekend at the NYSAIAW meet at St. John's University, Janice took fourth place in the Pentathlon event with a total of 3,714 points. Her performance in the five events included first place in the 800 meter run with a time of 2:27.8, a ·second place in the long jump, a third place in the javelin, and a third place in the high jump. In a dual meet against Albany State and Binghamton State last week, Janice took a first in the discus with a 26.72 meter toss, a first place in the javelin with a 28.08 meter effort, a .second place in the high jump with a 4'6\ leap, a fourth in tbe long jump and a second in the 400 meter hurdles with a 1.15.3 time. Janice was also part ofthe School. During high school, Janice received an Honorable Mention for the All.State Cross- Country Team . Tom Conway, senior fullback for the Rugby Cluo, was in- strumental in Union College's third place. finish in the prestigious Norwich Rugby Tournament. During the tournament, Union faced three clubs in one day, the Mad River Club, the Reptiles Club from Norwich, Vt., and the MIT Club. During all three games, Tom's punting from the fullback position consistently put Union in advantageous field position. Tom is also the field goal kicker for the club. In Union's 6-3 loss· to Mad River, Tom kicked Union's three points. Five minutes into a sudden death overtime against MIT, Tom put 400 and 800 meter relay teams. ~ Janice has also participated ~ on the Union College Cross Country Team, which went to ~ the NCAA's, and she has also participated on the Union E College Indoor Track Team. o Janice is a freshman from 15 J:: Manchester, N.Y., where she a. attended Manchester High Tom Conway through the uprights a forty yard field goal to win the game and ensure for the Dutchmen a third place finish. The Norwich Tournament is the first time in eight years that Union College has placed in the top three in a major tournament . Tom is the 1eacling scorer of the Rugby Club with 27 points. The next leading scorer has nine. Tom has scored on six penalty kicks and four point after conversions. Tom is also a valuable d~fensive player, and is a major reason why opposing teams have averaged only 4.67 points per game against Union, while the Dut~hmen have scored an average of 11.8. Tom, an Economics major, hails from Flemington, N.J., and is a brother of the Chi Psi Lodge. Janice Glidden 0 0 ..c Q. c:i Golfers Stand 4-2 RyA.R. SportsSta~f The Union College golf team, although not playing to it~ potential, is now sporting a 4--2 record. In its opening match against Hamilton, the Dut- chmen £1311 three strokes short, losing 409-412. Scores were high as strong winds and a wet course became factors. The bright spot of. the day occurred when Tim O'Brian eagled the 535 yard fifteenth hole. The second match was a tri- match between Union, Skid- more and Albany. Union swept as they posted a 416 to Skid· more's 417 with Albany a distant third at 433. Union traveled to Williams College for an()ther tri-inatch between Union; Williams and A.I.C. The team split, losing to Williams 424-404, but soundly defeated A.I.C. by 15 strokes. Mike Rozzi led the scoring for Union while Williams' con- sistent golfers were more than enough. Chip Hau.ser also played well scoring four birdies on the back ni!le. In Union's match last Monday against Utica College, Jeff Peters led the team with a 76 and Union, playing at home the first time this season, trounced Utica, <107-4:36. Union! s next match is against Middlebury on Friday.

Page 16 CONCORDIENSI!$, May 6, 1982 . .. ' . . . . . ~ ' '' . . '•.. ; . ,' . ' .. . \. ' . . . ' ~ BASEBAll By SCOTf WYKOFF Sports Staf.f The Dutchmen baseball team did not fare too well on the road last week where fi\·e of the Dutchmen's six games were played. The Union team started off the road trip a week ago Tuesday with a do~1bieheader agaim• Colgate. De .;pite good pitching and hittin~ from the middk of the or1:er, Union dr••PPl'd the first g 1me of the twmbill by :1 3-2 S··ore. \tark Ckteh went the dist anre in the Dutchmen lc•SS whil·~ scattering only six Colgatt· safeties. Juniors Mike Saccocio and George Oberstadt ~ot two hits apiece, while catcher Ed Moriarty kMcked 1 .ut a one-run homer. Thanks to the offensivt: and defensive work of Joe Wood, Union was able to win the second game against Colgate, 3- 2. The sophomore righty, Woood, in his first start of the season, pitched a two-hitter in his complete game victory. Wood also helped out his own cause at the plate with an RBI single. Union's record stayed at .500 with the split and 5-5 overall. Thursday's doubleheader would be Union's toughest test . of the season as they were matehed up against Division I power LeMoyne in Syracuse. Both Union pitchers had fine days only to lose to LeMoyne. Paul McGrath pitched well in the first game but evened his· mark at 2-2 with the 3-2 defeat. Freshman Nat Harris also pitched well in the second game but the Dutchmen bats were still asleep as Union's record dropped to 5-7. After having a well-deserved day off on Friday, the Dut- chmen travelled north to Middlebury on Saturday for a doubleheader with the Pan- thers. Led by the hitting of Mike Saccocio, AI DiLibero and Andy Dreher, the Dutchmen took tl_le Slides field in the bottom half of the seventh with an B-6 lead. Al DiLibero .got things going early in the game for Union as he .got his first career homerun on a blast to right centerfield. But the Panthers of Middlebury fought back to take a 6-4 lead into the sixth inning. Sparked by RBis from the bats of Saccocio and Dreher, Union rallied for a two-out, four-run rally. But .the roof fell in on the Dutchmen after starter Mark Cietek got the first batter out. Middlebury loaded up the bases on a Union error. Leftfielder Bob Crews of MiddlebHry then came up and hit a blast to left- field to score pinch-hitter Jon Starrett and put Middlebury on top for good, 9-6. Union came back once again to grab a quick lead in the second game, but later squandered it as they also lost the second game with Mid- dlebury, 12-7. Joe Wood and Da:ve Packer split the pitching duties as Union dropped to 5-9 on the year. Union returned home Sunday to meet Hamilton at Central Park. This was to be the Gar- net's first home game in the last five outings. Thanks to 17 hits and the relief job of senior Al DiLibero, the Dutchmen im- proved their record to 6-9 while defeating Hamilton 12-8. Ed Moriarty and Joe Wood both swung hot sticks for Union. · \Moriarty had three singles and four RBl's on the day while third baseman Joe Wood collected three singles and his first homerun of the season. Senior Al DiLibero came on in the fourth inning to pitch super ball and get his first win of the season. The games keep coming for. Coach Sakala's squad as they met Albany on Tuesday, the 4th, Siena on Wednesday the 5th, and are home against Rochester today. The team also has a twinbill with Hobart on Saturday. ~~ LaX Faces C!Jlgate By DON BEALL Sports Staff ' .. The lacrosse team bad a heartbreaking overtime loss to Williams on Wednesday and lost to Hamilton on Saturday. In the Williams game, Union once again went into the lockerroom at halftime winning and ended up losing the game. Union was ahead 8-5 at the half but Williams came back to tie the game, 9-9. By ECAC rules, the game went into sudden death overtime and Williams managed to score first, thus winning the contest. Union outplayed Williams considerably' on faceoffs and ground balls but was outshot 47- 39. ·Union only managed to get one extra man goal while Williams was able ·to convert three extra man situations into goals. The Dutchmen seemed to be playing even with, if not better than, their opponents, however they were unable to put enough points on the scoreboard. John Mercer played well in the nets steering away 69 percent of the Williams shots. Marc Marro paced the offense with three goals. Wright, Larkin, Davis, Ehudin, Schunaann and Baur-each had a goal. Perhaps the only positive aspect of the Hamilton game was the return of attackman Sean Durham. Durham made an extremely strong comeback from a sprained knee as he . scored five goals and added two assists. Dave Schumann also played well as he added a goal and two assists while Marc Ehudin and Chris Davis netted one apiece. Union went into the second half down 7-4 and once again lost the second half by a scofe of 8-6. The Dutchmen must tighten up their defense as ten goals by the offense should be enough to Union shortstop AI Dilibero slides into second base. Tennis Slams Hamilton, RPI ByS.E. Sports Staff Union College men'S tennis continues to have one of its most successful seasons in recent years and presently stands at 5- 4. The team recently beat arch- · rival Hamilton decisively, 7-2, a team it has not beaten in the past few seasons.' And despite two tough 54 defeats against highly favored Albany and Colgate, Union crushed RPI 7-2. The Hamilton match was played on a sunny Saturday without ace Dan Stewart, but Dwight Moore, Dave Patalita, Rick- Molot, Steve Eskenazi, and Dave Katz all picked up the slack, clinching the match with five singles victories before the doubles were even played. Steve Eskenazi and Colin Green, and Rick Molot and Bob Stratton won the sixth and seventh matches, sending Hamilton horne embarrassed. on Sat. win a game. Union's man-down performance was better, as they allowed one goal on six extra man attempts. Union once again outdid their opponents on ground balls. Lacrosse Notes Sean Durham got his one hundredth goal and his sixty- seventh assist on Saturday after only two full sessions ..• He is also the third leading scorer m the Capital District . . . Mike Maluccio is definitely out for the season with his knee injury . . . The Dutchmen played Hobart Wednesday and play Colgate at 8:00 this Saturday. Key players in therriatches were Steve Eskenazi and Rick Molot, each with two victories. In the· Albany match, Union won only two singles out of six matches (Dave Katz and Dan 2. who even RPI's No. 1 player. The squad of Union players then travelled to Colgate to face their toughest opponent, a team with many nationally ranked players. A superb performance was rendered by No. 3 Rick Molot as he pounded his op- ponent, 7-5, 3-1. The match ended as Colgate's third singles flung his racquet over the fence and ran off the court in a fit of rage. He never returned and Colgate was forced to forfeit its third singles and second doubles. No. 6 Dave -Katz also played awesome tennis, saving numerous set points, prevailing 7-6, 6-4. But No. 4 Dan Stewart lost a three-set heartbreaker, and the rest of the squad went down in straight sets. Even though Dave Katz and Dwight Moore won third doubles in a three-set tiebreaker, Steve Eskenazi and Colin Green lost first doubles and Union fell , 5-4. Player of the match Dave Katz, who won two tough matches. Union finishes its Season off this week at Middlebury and Binghamton. With two wins, the team will have turned itself around from last year and can only look to the future years, with no seniors presently on the squad. The team's last hurrah will be an all-campus mixed doubles tournament to raise money for a fall season. There will be a $2~00 per team' entry fee and all those interested can see Dave Katz or Steve Eskenazi or anyone else on the team for signups and dates. Please enter and support the team! SPORTS HAPPENINGS May 6-May 13 Baseball May 6 Rochester May 8 Hobart (2) Varsity Lacrosse May H at Hartwick (2) May 8 Colgate May 11 at Albany St. J. V. Lacrosse Track Tennis Golf Rugby May 7 at Albany St. May 7 &B New York State Meet at Union May 8 at Binghamton May 7 Middlebury May 8 Rhinebeck Rugby Club 3:00 1:00 l: 00 8:00 3:00 3:00 1:00' 1:00 12:00 c ~ I1J ~ 0 I1J .... -o 0 J:: £ 0. ...J Cl > .Q 0 0 ..c 0.

PARENT'S WEEKENI}J May 7·9, 1982 • - - .• - • t j, t Page lA ee .President and Mrs. Morris Vice-President Address I am grateful to the Editors of the Concordiensis for their invitation to use their pages to extend you a hearty welcome to the campus on Parent's Weekend. An exciting schedule of activities has been arranged which should give you a good sense of the academic and extracurricular programs at Union. I hope you will be able to participate in these events to the fullest extent possible. The Prize Day Ceremony at 11:30 a.m. on Saturday is the occasion on which the College recognizes the outstanding accomplishments, in a wide variety of areas, of its students. To us this is one of the high points of the year as our attention is drawn to the many fine students we have been fortlmate to have on our campus. As parents, I'm sure you will find this ceremony especially gratifying. One of the best ways to learn about the high quality of the Union education that your sons and daughters are receiving is to hear the faculty discuss their role and the curricular offerings. I hope you will take the opportunity to attend the Departmental Receptions from 9:00 to 12:00 on Saturday morning. The seminar, ''Why Liberal Arts?\ was especially interesting last year and you might consider attending that event at 1:30.in the afternoon on Saturday. finally, I encourage yo:u to take the initiative to walk up to any of the faculty and staff and engage us in conversation; that's probably the best way to get a feel for the College since we stand first on the quality of people that teach and serve our students. _Coincidentally, my own parents are coming for a visit this weekend. If the airlines run on time, I hope they will attend the President's and Deans' Reception in Jackson's Gardens from 2:00 to 4:00 p.m. on Saturday. I hope to meet many of you at that reception and to introduce you to them if the occasion presents itself. Sincerely, Thomas D'Andrea Vice President for Academic Affairs The 1982 Parent's Weekend Committee welcomes parents and families to Union's 32nd annual Parent's Weekend. We are delighted that you are joining us on this weekend, planned especially to acquaint you with the Union community. As you can see by the activities outlined in this issue of Ooncordiensis, the Parent's Weekend Committee has been working diligently with campus organizations on an exciting schedule of evtents. We invite you to explore all of what Union offers and hope you thoroughly enjoy your stay. The committee members, from le:ft to right, are: back row, Jason Brandt, Karen Monteith; Andy Wax, Tim Smith, Kelly Dennin, Jean Bradley; middle row,. Jane Wood, Carol Hanrettaj Karen Bader, Lynne Greenberg, Susie Katz, Sheila Walsh; front row, · Melissa Gruen, Laurie Corkum, Carla Cogan, Kathy Hess, Lee Schulman; missing, Josh Antilles, Lorraine Marra, Audrey Snowden. President's Welconte I would like to take this OJ\ portunity of welcoming you to the Campus on this Parents' Weekend. Spring is always a marvelous time in upstate New York (even if it does rai11 - and we hope that it does not) because it affords us the marvelous release from win- ter's grip. And this year, with our April snowstonn it seemed to be very reluctant to let go. But with the coming of spring, as our community begins to move outdoors, we look around us again and are grateful for the beauty of our campus. We hope that you will join us in enjoying our surroundings. We have tried to make it your Vice- President D'Andrea p A R E N T Campus and have planned a number of events that we hope will help give you some insights into Union College. The Departmental Receptions, for example, show the academic part of the College; Prize Day shows the ceremonial recognition of student achievement; the athletic events, receptions, films, and concerts show the social and extracurricular side of Union. I hope that you enjoy this special opportunity to get to know the place where your son or daughter is living and to share some of their college ex- perience. w E E K E N SMA D .~-H.IIIZ INSIDE: Highlights page 3 Dinin pages 4-8

l \: l c: Q) ro '0 c: ...J >- .c 0 - 0 -a PARENT'S WEEKEND, May \1·9 198$ Page lA are If ee President and Mrs. Morris Vice-President Address I am grateful to the Editors of the Concordiensis for their invitation to use their pages to extend you a nearty welcome to the campus on Parent's Weekend. An exciting schedule of activities has been arranged which .should give you a good sense of the academic and extracurricular programs at Union. I hope you will be able to participate in these events to the fullest extent possible. The Prize Day Ceremony at 11:30 a.m. on Saturday is the occasion on which ~he College recognizes the outstanding accomplishments, in a wide variety of areas, of its students. To us this is one of the high points of the year as our attention is drawn to the many fine students we have been fortunate to have on our campus. As parents, I'm sure you will find this ceremony especially gratifying. One of the best ways to learn about the high quality of the Union education that your sons and daughters are receiving is to hear the faculty discuss their role and the curricular offerings. I hope you will take the opportunity to attend the Departmental Receptions from 9:00 to 12:00 on Saturday morning. The seminar, \Why Liberal Arts?\ was especially interesting last year and you might consider attending that event at 1 :30 in the afternoon on Saturday. Finally, I encourage you to take the initiative to walk up to any of the faculty and staff and engage us in conversation; that's probably the best way to get a feel for the College since we stand first on the quality of people that teach and serve our students. Coincidentally, my own parents are coming for a visit this weekend. If the airlines run on time, I hope they will attend the President's and Deans' Reception in Jackson's Gardens from 2:00 to 4:00 p.m. on Saturday. I hope to meet many of you at that reception and to introduce you to them if the occasion presents itself. Sincerely, Thomas D'Andrea Vice President for Academic Affairs The 1982 Parent's Weekend Committee welcomes parents and families to Union's 32nd annual Parent's Weekend. We are delighted that you are joining us on this weekend, planned especially to acquaint you with the Union community. As you can see by the activities outlined in this issue of Concordiensis, the Parent's Weekend Committee has been working diligently with campus organizations on an exciting schedule of evrents. We invite you to explore all of what Union offers and hope you thoroughly enjoy your stay. The committee members, from left to right, are: back row, Jason Brandt, Karen Monteith, Andy Wax, Tim Smith, Kelly Dennin, Jean Bradley; middle row, Jane Wood, Carol Hanretta, Karen Bader, Lynne Greenberg, Susie Katz, Sheila Walsh; front row, Melissa Gruen, Laurie Corkum, Carla Cogan, Kathy Hess, Lee Schulman; missing, Josh Antilles, Lorraine Marra, Audrey Snowden. President's WelcoDie I would like to take this op- portunity of welcoming you to the Campus on this Parents' Weekend. Spring is always a marvelous time in upstate New York (even if it does rain -and we hope that it does not) because it affords us the marvelous release from win- ter's grip. And this year, with our April snowstorm it seemed to be very reluctant to let go. But with the coming of spring, as our community begins to move outdoors, we look around us again and are grateful for the beauty of our campus. We hope that you will join us in enjoying our surroundings. We have tried to make it your Vice-President D'Andrea p A R E N T Campus and have planned a number of events that we hope will help give you some insights into Union College. The Departmental Receptions, for example, show the academic part of the College; Prize Day shows the ceremonial recognition of student achievement; the athletic events, receptions, films, and concerts show the social and extracurricular side of Union. I hope that you enjoy this special opportunity to get to know the place where your son or daughter is living and to share some of their college ex· perience. w E E K E N SMA D , ... ~.1&12 INSIDE: Highlights #!\~'.~. poge 2 l~~ page 3 Dinin pages 4-8

Page 2A PARENT'S WEEKEND, May 7-9, 1982 . ' WEEKEND HIGHLlGHT8__~- -In th·e Ar.ts- Did you think that all Student Bodies did was eat, sleep, and study? 1 At least, are your parents under that im- pression? l Come to the Nott at 8:00p.m. on Frid.ay or 9:00p.m. on Saturday, and find out what other \Student Bodies\ are up to! '\Say Cheese:\ Actually, :-;ay yes to the Photo . Clubs Exhibition in the Nott Memorial from 12:00 to 2:00 p.m. on Saturday. To be perfectly candid, I wouldn't miss it. The Union College Dance Club invites everyone to the Second Annual Dance Per- formance, Saturday, 3:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., in Memorial Chapel. The Dance Club, an active group of Union students devoted to the art of dance, will perform a selection of modern dance pieces choreographed by Darlene Meyers, a Union dance instructor. The program in- cludes company pieces, solos, and a twist of humor. Admission is free, so please come and enjoy! Support Union Ath,'l:'~p.~.;<>. You'll be able to see most Dutchmen spring sports \\'<!L'U\ in action. The new field will get a workout f,.nrnll•ho men's Lacrosse team lights. Union's tracksters host the N.Y. State CoUleg~ate track meet on its spa!flkilng track. Hobart will visit baseball team for doubleheader at nearby f'on,il,.,l Park while the Lacrosse team hosts R Sage of Albany right here Library field. Consult Parents' Weekend schedule exact times of these nn£•nt<l Sports- Saturday What's round, made out plastic, flies through the and can be seen at 1:30 Saturday at Alexander flying saucer? Close! Club will be having exhibition - glide on down Religious Hillel and Campus Ministty invite you and your parents to join them on Sunday morning in their special celebrations for Parents' Weekend. The Catholic and Protestant Campus Ministry will be celebrating a combined Christian Worship with the Liturgy of the Word and the Sacrament of the Eucharist at 10:00 a.m. in Memorial Chapel. Dr. Dykstra from the First Reformed Church in Schenectady will speak on the Word during this ecumenical service led ~Y President Morris Take a look at some .of the finest singers at Union. Our Glee Club will sponsor a concert in Memorial Chapel on Saturday, May 8, at 8:00p.m. I'm sure that they have cooked up something special just for Parents' Weekend! The arts are alive and flourishing at Union College! The Arts Department proudly presents a composition and Dance Workshop, Sunday, 12 noon to 1:00 p.m., in room 202 of the Arts Building. Admission is free of charge. The wor~shop includes Union musicians performing pieces by known composers as well as Union student composers. In addition, a student composer and student choreographer have combined their talents to create an original dance piece. Finally, the Dance Club and music students experiment together with the effects of various musical styles on dance. The informal workshop will be an exciting switch from the usual music recital, so come and experience the arts at Union! Friday, Saturday & Sund·ay nights at 7,9 & 11 FREE but you must have ticket! For Your E11tertainm·ent sign in. ments ooyo·f\.on find out Parents' We~ek1~nd Get Bamel, Larsen and the 9:00 p.m. '\'\\''\'\ and the 11:00 p.m .. Ceremo6ites for both Eve on campus Parents' but everyone is welcome! President and Dean's Ret(!eptlOili Saturday at 4:00, John S. Morris will host garden reception along with College Deans in J -•---~··\\ Garden. There will be. punch,~ hors d'oeuvres and music Union College Jazz Ensemble All are welcome to enjoy. Dorm Receptions An important part of Parents' Weekend are the Residence Hall Receptions. At receptions parents are n ... _.,,,rto<l with the opportunity to where students live and to meet floor mates and RA's. This year, Fo~. Davidson, South, North, Webster, West and Rich- shows is Bill DiConza. All of these fine acts will be per- forming F night of Parents' W Alumni , an- parents made those to stop in. e academic designed for afbrMr.rPli;l'ftio~tM1~-tm>delfnlf\1~'\'l'a:tesH1lstltotirt-'Tci5fei#ti~lfs have resulted in and the campus Ministry Chaplains, Fr. Dennis Cox and Rev. Hugh Nevin. This ecumenical worship service is conducted with full approval of the two churches (in other words--\it counts\). Following the worship there will be a reception in Hale House where parents and students will be able to mingle and converse with the President, Chaplains, _ and other members of the Christian Community. their election to honorary societies for academic distinc- tion and research. Prizes recognize outstanding academic achievement in the Arts, Sciences, and Engineering and acknowledge outstanding contributions to the college in the areas of athletics and College's Concert Band, and i~ will perform especially for you and your parents. ! Enjoy some. and some good entert:aillltn~Jllt Where'? Why, at It will be held at 8:00p.m. on is -sUrely going to ! [2 Ll Phone 382-5493 ay cotbmuni.tv service. l.Jl.iaOCllltlo'n to the prizes listed college catalogue, the :Bernstein Memorial Aml<>rrt is giVen by the student to a sophomore for \\\''.. .. service to the college. s Service Awards by the Student Affairs will: also be presented to The President's Commission on the Statu.sofWomen at Union College will be awarding prizes to freshman and senior women fo·r community service, academics, and athletics. The Delphic Society, an honorary serviee organization, will be announcing its new members. The winner of the Watson Travelling Fellowship will be introduced. Many first-time awards will also be presented. At the conclusion of the ceremony, a printed list of aU prizes and their recipients will be distributed to the audience as they leave Memorial Chapel. All are welcome l ( ot G 8! u FE II hi 84 h4 p; pi w 01 tl aJ 11 h: a: st le tl I~: II 01 ~ a s1 P' a a fl A h G \\p c v VI D tl D A d VI $' d tl c h iJ

.. PARENT'S WEEKEND, May \1·9. 1982 Page 3A Office of Financial Aid: Letter to Parents Bailey On Law This has been a year like no other for student financial aid. College costs ·Continue to rise and, for the first time since 1958, the federal gQvernment is reduCing its 'traditional com- mitment to access-and choice in higher education. At Union, the administrative staff, with the help of faculty, students and parents, has attempted to protect the vital programs which enable o:ver 70 percent of our undergraduates to attend the College. Beginning with ~ appeal to parents in Marcfi, 1981,. the Office of Financial Aid has continuously informed all affected individuals of the status of federal financial· aid legislation. We have requested that you and your children write letters make phone calls, attend meetings - all in an effort to let our collective voices be heard. With the information we were able to provide, parents and students did voice their op- position and together, we were able to hold the federal financial aid cuts to a minimum. The battle, however, is far from over. The Reagan Administration will again at- tempt to limit eligibility for the Guaranteed Student Loan program beyond what has \\'currently been implemented. from these programs, they will be affected directly or in- directlyby the Administration's efforts. Those with little or no financial aid would feel the effects in two ways: l) with institutions having to devote more of their own resources to the neediest students, there will be little or no institutional money for those who require a small amount of assistance; and 2) independent colleges would have to increase their costs even higher to partially compensate for decreased federal assistance. Of course, those who depend on financial aid now woul<i feel the effects immediately and dramatically. By JOEY SPEAKER This Friday, May 7, at 8:00 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel Speaker'$ Forum proudly presents Mr. F. Lee Bailey, America's foremost defense lawyer. Many people probably best remember Bailey for his defense of Patricia Hearst. Some of his other famous cases include the \Boston Strangler\ and Captain Ernest L. Medina, SUBSCRIBE NOW! ~Dtllllfhitnsis For Just $12.00 per year you can receive each ;and every issue of next year's 'Concordiensis. Please reply before June 1, 1982. D-------------~--------------• YES! Enclosed is my $12.00 check (Payable to Union College) for my 1982-83 subscription. Name _______________________________ ~~ Ap1. Address _________________________ ~~--~~ State Zip City Return To: Concordiensis Box No. 2577 Union College~ Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 . who was charged with the Mi Lai Massacre during the Vietnam War. Additionally, Bailey is an accomplished author with works like The Defense Never Rests to his credit. His articulate manner, which has made him a famous defense lawyer, should also translate into an exciting speech Friday evening. Tickets are still available at the Box Office in Carnegie Hall. Start off a great Parents' Weekend by coming to see F. Lee Bailey. Very few individuals at Union will be eliminated from this major program as a result · of the changes made by the ad~ ministration last October. Although It becomes more difficult to qualify for the loan with incomes in excess of $75,000, it is still possible to demonstrate a \need\ above that level with more than one child jn college and with the high cost of education in the independent sector. You can be sure that Union College will work with you, in the context of our financial limitations as well as your own, to make the college experience possible for your son or daughter. Obviously., we cannot assist all those who request assistance and we will continue to expect that financial aid be used to supplement family resources only after the family has made a maximum effort to meet the costs. You can be equally certain that we will continue our efforts on the federal level to preserve financial aid to college .students. While no one denies that the federal budget must be brought under.control, the future of our country unquestipnably lies with an educated yough. To destroy the educational dream for many undermines our most precious national resour- ce. This summer will bring another heated budget battle to Washington and student financial aid will be a prime target. We will call on you for your continued support and invite your comments and questions. Along with Associate Financial Aid Director Ellen Frishberg, I will look forward to seeing you at our Financial Aid Information session in SS016 at 2 p.m. on Saturday. Swing With Dorsey By KELLY DENNIN Other federal aid programs are being threatened. Pell Grants could be reduced by 40 percent, Supplemental Grants could be eliminated, College Work Study could be critically wounded - all ofthese proposals could affect .us in 1983-84. Whether or not your son or daughter receives assistance Best wishes for an. enjoyable Parents' Weekend at -Union. As you're swinging to the big band sound of the fabulous JIMMY DORSEY OR· CHESTRA Saturday evening, you'll be enjoying the music of .a,.-- group that has delighted audiences for many generations. This Big Band Concert and Dance is a must for those who will appreciate listening to tunes that are part of a rich musical tradition. It all started for Jimmy D()rsey when he was discovered playing with the Dorsey Novelty Band at a dance in Reading, Pennsylvania along with his brother Tommy. Before their discovery the brothers had played many local dates in and around their home town of Shtmandoah, Pennsylvania with the band that they had started in 1922. UNION COLLEGE PARENTS WEEKEND MAY 7,8 &9, 1982 ORGOIBG EVEII'.rS -~ §:!!!- swillllling, racquetball, tennis \tournament for students and parents (Saturday·)- locker rooms will be open Fllrn- \A Union of People\- an award winning 111m, 11:30 am- 12:00 noon and 12:30-1:00 pm, SSOJ6, Saturday Admissions guidAd tours with Gatesmen • will leave from the dm1ssionSliff1ce, Becker Hall, 9:00, 10:00, 11:00, 12:00 am, Saturday ATHLETIC EVEN'lS Friday and Saturday Saturday 1:00pm 4:00 pm B:OO pm New York State Collegiate Track Meet Men's Baseball vs. Hobar~, Central Park Women's Lacrosse vs. Russe 11 Sage, Library Fie,Jd Men's Lacrosse vs. Colgate, New Field FRIDAY, MAY 7 6:00-7:00 pm 7:00,9:00 & 11 :00 !lm B:OO pm B:OO pm 9:00 & 11 :.00 pm 9:45 pm 10:00 pm 10:00 pm Welcome and Registration, Carnegie Hall, Strauss Lounge Fllm, \Arthur SS016 (free actnission) Guest Speaker, F. Lee Bailey, Memoria 1 Chape 1 Student-produced play,. Nett Memoria 1 Student-run tabaret, Carnegie Hal.l Concert Band, Memorial Chapel Square Dance, Library Plaza; alternate· A 1111111 i Gym Library Open House SATURDAY, MAY 8 9:00am-1:00pm 9:00 am Welcome and Registration, Meet Student Affairs Staff, Carnegie Hall, Strauss Lounge Campus Jog - Exercise for the entire family, West Co 11 ege 9:00-12:00 am - Adniss ions Interviews for sons and dauqhters of Union parents, Becker Hall (by ap.pt. only, SlB/370-6112) 10:00 am Parents Committee Meeting, Carnegie Hall, Banquet Room 10:00-12:00 am DEPARTMENTAL RECEPTIONS An opportunity to meet 1nfonmally with faculty Math, 202 Bailey Hall Biology, S301 Science & Engineering Chemistry,S330 Science & Engineering Physics. N303 Science & Engineering Psycho! ogy, 213 Psychology Build~ng Humanities, Lounge -Philosophy -English -Class in -Languages -Art 11:30 am 12:00 noon 12:00-2:00 pm 1 :00-2:\00 pm 1:30pm Social Sciences, Faculty Lounge, second floor Social.Science Bldg. -IHstory -Economics -Political Science -Sociology -Electrical Eng. & Computer Science, Camp. Center -Mech. Eng., ME Lab N205 S & E -Civil Eng., CE Seminar Room, 1st fl. Butterfield Hall Tems Abroad, ·10:30- 11:30 only. 115 Humanities Building Prize Day Awards Memoria 1 Chapel Benefit Bar-B-f) lunch Union Day Care -Genter Che.ster Arthur 5tatue Photo Club (xhjbition, Nott Memoria 1 Seminar-\Why Liberal Arts?\ A panel dis- cussion on the value of 1 iberal arts edu- cation, sponsored by faculty & The Career Center, Carnegie Hall, Stage Two Frisbee Club, Alexander Field An engagement with one of the city of Baltimore's first 2:00-3:00 pm 2:00-3:00 pm 2:00-4:00 pm 3:30-4:30 pm 3:30-4:45 pm 3:30-4:45 pm 4:00 pm 4:30-6:30 pm 5: 30-B: 30 pm 7:00.9:00 & 11:00 pm 8:00 pm (l:OO pm 9:00 pm 9:00 pm Open' House & Reception· for Alumni & Families, Alumni Office, La~nt House Information Session on Financial Aid, 5$016 President's and Deans' Reception accompanied by the Union College Jazz Ensemble, Jackson's Garden; a 1 tern ate-Hale House Dance Club Performance Memorial Chapel Hillel Reception, Carnegie Hall, Strauss Lounge Christian Fellows~ip Bible Study, Carnegie Fourth Floor Lounge Residence Hall Receptions Meet the RAs and floor- mates, Lounges Fraternity and Sorority Receptions Special Buffet, DutLh Ho 11 ow Pub Res tua rant Film-\Arthur.\ SSOJ6 (free aanission) Glee Club Concert, Memorial Chapel Coffeehouse. CarnPgie Hall Student-produced p'lay, Nott Hemori a 1 Dance and Concert with the Big Band Sound of The Ji!Tilly Dor~ey Band. Ramada Inn, Nott Street SUNDAY, MAY 9 HAPPY MOT~ER'S DAY 10:00 am - 1:30 pm 10:00 am 11:00 am 11 : 00 am - 1 : 30 P\' 12:DO noon • 1 :00 pm 4:00 Pf'1 Family Brunch, West 01ning Hall Christian Sunday Worship. L1turgy of Word and ·sacrament (Catholic and Prote1tant Campul fohnistry). Memorial Chape 1 Chr1stian Community Reception, Hale House Hill~l Brunch, Kosher Kitchen, West Hall Arts Department Composition and Dance Workshop, 202 Arts Bldg. Fashion Show-\Snap Shot,\ sponsored by B.L.A.S., Memoria 1 Chape 1 radio stations· ensued. This exposure led to a bid for Jinuny to play saxophon~ and clarinet with the Scranton Sirens, a popular band of the day. Thereafter, Jimmy's career as an instrumentalist skyrocketed. He made successive ap- pearances with top bands like the Original. California Ram- blers, Jean Goldkette and Paul Whiteman. The demands of leading radio orchestras for Jimmy grew along with his notoriety as a clarinet and saxophone vir- tuoso. He performed with such bands as. Victor Young, Lennie Hayton, Dave Rubinoff, Freddie Rich, Nat Shilkret, and Rudy Vallee. In the early thirties, Jimmy and his trombone playing brother Tommy won nationwide acclaim with their Dorsey Brothers Orchestra. This phenomenal musical aggregation had such greats as Bob Crosby as vocalist, Ray McKinley on drums, and Glenn Miller playing second trom- bone. Jimmy struck out on his own in 1936 to form one of the greatest orchestras of the dance band era of the late 30's and ·early 40's. His emphasis on a swee~er, more subdued ap- proach to contemporary music brought such tunes as \Amapola\ and \Besame Muoho\ into the class of standards and was responsible for launching stars like Helen O'Connell and Bob Eberly. One of Jimmy's most im- pressive accomplishments was the sale of more than forty million ·ph<Htograph records. For this reason many recording men credit him with the suc- cessful establishment of the juke-box industry ( Skellar rats will be happy to lmow). Million -sale recordings like his \John Silver\ certainly couldn't have hurt the business. So come with your parents to the Ramada Inn Saturday night at 9:00p.m. You won't want to miss this classic listening ex- perience!! !

Page 4A PA:P,ENT'S WEEKEND, May \1·9 1982 SUPERB D'INING IN DOWNTOWN SCHENECT-ADY AT UNC'LE TEDS · OXBOW -INN .~ ·11(? ~ urnl2l11 ett£11 The 'oxBOW Welcomes Union College Parents to Schenectady NOW OPEN SUNDAYS Featuring 1 p.m. tiU 9 p.m. Steaks & { Seafo,od Friday 11nd Saturday Nights Dinner Available From 5 PM to 1 AM Lunch on Saturday From 11:30 AM Open on Sunday from 4 _to 10 PM Cocktail Lounge 4 -p.m. 'til 12:30 a.m. DINNER Mon. thru Thurs. 5 p.m. 'til 10 p.m. Fri. & Sat. 5 p.m. 'tilll p.m. Sun. 1 p.m. to 9 p.m.· , Corner Eastern Parkway and McClellan Street, Schenectady .. Ted Barnes' Bxbow Inn \At lhe Bot1om of State 8tre•t ... At the Top for Fine Dining!\ 10 STATE STR.EET, DOWNTOWN SCHENECTADY PHONE 372-5252 m. W. Wagoner, Your Host . Ph. 393-2186 ·The Dutch Hollow Pub Prou~ly Presents A Special. Buffet for Your Enjoyment / Saturday, May 8th 5:30 to 8:30 p.m. §ad /ww ~ Jdad' & J~ ~a?'. 9~ !J??d ¥ ~u/ f/ed ~ ~ J~Jf/~ c~ ~~ 9~ i!tdd' 9~ ;#~ ~~ ~ ~ 9# c~ !!t~. c~ ~ !!t~ g;~ !YaUe .. §ku ~ Jl'.wu, !J8- <'?< J~ ~ Plo/fo' Adults - $9.50, Children ~nder 12 - $6.50 Reservations Requested by Friday, May 7th <;all 370-6051 between 2-4 p$m. Mondoy - Friday Limited Seating - First Come, First Served Basis

PARENT'S WEEKEND, May 1·9, 198S Page 5A ·II YOIJ can't make It to the coast-make it to The Bog WELCOME PARENTS l •one of the areas finest seafood houses. · Also specializing In veal, fowl, & beef . •vour favorite wine w/dlnner at wine store prices. • Bracing drinks . COR.NELL'S RESTAURANT • SerVIng Lunch & Dinner ·Italian Foods Sea Foods Steaks _,.. 56 wotl Rd Restaurant, Inc. OPEN FOR DINNER 4 pm - 1 am RESERVATIONS: 382-9451 Colome Opp Colome Ctr , 1 . \estaurant m WELCOME PARENTS Ill{ All lltltiS Mo{fett's liquor Store SERVING UNION OVER 40 YEARS EDWARD D MOFFETT 1 !50!5 VANVRANKEN AVE. SCHENECTADY. N Y. PHONE 3445.0392 1733 Van Vr\nken LUNCHES SERVED 11 A.M.-2 P.M. MON.-FRI. . *CHAR-BROILED HAMBURGERS *END OF WEEK SPECIALS OPEN FROM 11 A.M •. 1526 VANVRANKEN AVE. 370-0011 * ALL LEGAL BEVERAGES. .:.,. WELCOME PARENTS During your stay shop CANAL SQUARE- a unique downtown shopping area. A Iter shopping, relax with a- coclctail . or dinner at - • _.I Q~TAUQL\NT Serving lunch, dinner, and cocktails till 9:00pm . lighter menu from 9 pm to 12 am 426 State St. in the Heart of Cana I Square I . Luncheons served daily Cocktai Is served Phone: 869-0634 Italian, Continental, American Food RISTORANII .Jta CMftlAI. avau• Just off Northway, Exit 2W Schenectady 109 Canal Square, Broadway, Sch'dy. Phone: 374-4332 • PIZZA • N.Y.S Style Sicillian Style (Deepdish) 8\ cut 12\ cut ~4\ cut Cheese Ex. Cheese Sausage Mushroom Pepperoni Green Peppers Meatballs Onions Anchovies Any Add hem Papa Cicco's Deluxe 4.25 5.00 8.$0. 5.25 6.00 1(),()0 5.25 6.00 1 ():()0 5.25 6.00 1 ();(io 5.25 6.00 1 o,oo 5.25 6.00 1 o.oo 5.25 6.00 1 0.1)0 5.25 6.00 10:00 5.25 6.00 10:00 .75 1.00 1.50 9.25 10.95 15.00 WHITE PIZZA THE SHRIMP THE WHITE OUR SPECIALTY SCAMPI CLAM SAUCE • -Try One Today- PIZZA PIZZA Pizza with no sauce Shrimp and Garlic Spr~\:.':I\tr:O~hC~~W; Oil with Olive Oil and Pizza with Whit-e Clam Sa \.lee and Garlic with with mounds of Mozzarella cheese Mozzarella, cheese Mozzarella cheese Lg. 6.75 S cut (i;OO Lg. 4.50 Sicillian 12 cut 5.25 Sicillian 12 cut 7.50 12 cut 6.75 24 cut 8.75 24 cut 10.50 24 cut 9.75 • ITALIAN SANDWICHES • l'o •• atball Meatball Parmi~ana Sausage Sausage Par-migiana S.u&age & Peppers Egg Plant Parmigiana Calzone \II rahone h!led Wllh Ruot• <hi!'I!'IO'. M<>ll,.rt-1101 <hrc•·r PIZZA BREAD A superb Garlic Br~d baked with Mozzarella Cheese 1.50 2.10 Steak 2.50 2.50 Salami 8, Provalone . 2.50 2.10 Prosciutto & Provolone 2.95 2.50 Sandwiches with peppers 20· extra 2.35 Sandwiches with Mushrooms2cr ertra 2.60 Sandwiches with Onions 10' extra. Italian Roasted Peppers 25· extra • SPECIAL TIES • Plain Sausage 2.25 Ham 2.65 Prosciotto 2.65 2.9S ~-rnf;;e Deii;;;-~ ! on Campus I 1.25 I I I I L-------- _, ..__---------1 WE DELIVER- Ph. 374-4332 ~ TheOide Homestead 120 LAKE IIILL·RD. BURNTHW Call for Mothe 's Day Reservations 399-6973 serving seven oavs until Midnight Dinner on sunday from 1 PM Have· you tried- our \Late Ni.ght Tavern Menu\ featuring soups, sand wiches, burgers and homemade desserts? Then stay for a cocktail until the wee hours ... When you're in Saratoga, visit The Olde Bryan Inn!

. ; Page 6A PARENT'S WEEKEND, May '1·9, 198~ v• .d p· • • r treSl . · e .·· . zzzerla Inc. Sandwich Pub & Lounge Super F.ireside Atmosphere The Area es finest pizza Mouthwatering Sandwiches & Salads Cozy New lounge Welcome· Union· College Parents · 393-0775 1631 Eastern Parkway { opp. Price Chopper} BRADDYWIDE BIDER. OPEN 24 HOURS A DAY, 7 DAYS A WEEK for BREAKFAST, LUNCH & DINNER WE SERVE BEER & WINE 970 Emmett Street (at Brandywine Ave.) OPEN 6 A.M. to 11 P.M. 372-6030 FR. 6 A.M. to 2 A.M. SAT. BRADDYIUIDE DIRER D: 2025 State Street \A good place to meet friends and make new ones\ AQT VAN DAM 1 ME TRIO. VANDYCK Open Dail~ lUNCH & DINN£R. ....... All TUES.·SAl.lla. · 237 Union Street Schenectady I New York THE STARS AI( OUT AT Til YAH DYCit ••• JStil &NII1Ifii~JI~IY *Sunday Brunch 11 til 3 TONIGHT!* 374-240& .lU'MaJOI Ch .. ;e (ortk r-~. . p , ':::Je~112on ~ Deli Sandwiches To Eat In Mon.- Sat. 7 a.m.-6:45p.m. · And Take Out Mo~. -Sat. 7a.m. -6:45.p.m: , Sun. 7-3 p.m. Phone: 393.;0617 1600 Union Str.eet Schenectady, N.Y. Welcome Parents Perrino's Restaurant And Cocktail Lounge Phone 37 4-4515 Ralph Perrino Proprietor 2015 Rosa Road Schenectady I N.Y. 12309 Serving Lunch~ Cocktails- Dinner After Theater Dining Special Mother's Day Brunch 10:30 om-3 :30 pm Seafood Bisque Bloody Mary 1 sand Champagne Cocktails all you want Lobster Newburgh- Eggs Benedict Poached Eggs en Croissant with Ham and Cheese Eggs Extraordinaire- Eggs FloreQtine Welsh Rarebit Fresh Poaches Salmon with Hollandaise Sauce Sausage ana Apple QuJche Salmon and Dill Quiche Omelettes Verite- Crepes Verite French Toast with Challah Bread Cheese Blintzes with Blueberry or Apple Topping Belgian Waffles with Exotic Toppings Brunch Menus Served With Fresh Asparagus and Cheese Souflee Adults $5.95 Children $3~~95 00 and under) Especially for Mothers live Music Outdoor Patio Open . Reservations Suggested 393-0439 11 0n the lce 11 Center City Schenectady.

get a whole lot more! 1614 State St. Schenectady, N.Y. . PA.RENT 1 S WEEKEND 1 May \1·9 1 1982 THE \ORIGINAL\ SCHENECf ADY'S DOWNTOWN FLORiST 10 pet. discount on local orders REM~M.B'ER YOUR MOTHER ON MOTHER'S DAY 374·9195 739 STATE s:r !JUST ABOVE NOn. TERRI Open 9-9 · Mon.-Sot. We Del:iver '' ' 11 4 2 State Street Schenectady Phone: 374-9285 And SONY. - Champagne Quality .•. SONY: WALKMAN s7aaa SONY WM-1 SJ3444 SON~Y WM-11 soa•a FM VIALKMAN ·WMII AM/FM CASSETTE STEREO CFS-1> 1 S $.1-90' CFS-43 sg4·95 O~lu•e SJ4888 Stereo G•ant $.1-!(1 Steroo ~···On A Beer Budget .. -SONYs ~•99 95 FREE: SONY MAGNETIC CARTRIDGE & DIAMOND PS- 1 50 STYLUS with PS-150 Turntable • Direct Drive • Autotnatic Arm Return Quantities Limited-Hurry Inn SONY TCM-131 . s3aaa \The Note Taker'' SONY QUALITY IN A LOW-PRICE HAND-HELD PORTABLE WITH BUlL T IN MICROPHONE Every Houris Happy Hour At Action Audio Remember: We Service What We Sell-Satisfaction Guaranteed!! f.iOISCWASHER sa sa 1)41 • IICGID CAll SYSIIM SAND CREEK RD. BEEFSTEAK c:l CMARLIES METRO DRIVE ACTION AUDIO ~ ALBANY STORE PH: 481·8111 WOLF RD. HOURS: Mttl._,·thrv l'riclotylo a.m.te • p.m. !IGhlrtley 10 m.m. tU p.m. Su~ 12 p.m. t. S p.m. SCHENECTADY PH: 312-IIDI HOURS: M.n.·Thlll'a. h.m. t. 6 p.m. Prithy9 •• m. to. I p.m. . . _ ~IO,,m, ... s.p.m. (f)KENWCOO .Featherweight STEREO PHONES Page 7A

Page SA PA.RENT'S WEEKEND, May 1·9, 1982 ELCO E PARENTS!! ~ \Fun\ T-Shirts ... Special$ 5.95 e daseball Shirts ......... $ 12.95 ~. \Property of\ Silirts ...... $ 6.95 ~ ~ ~:~~::~~~:~~. ::::: ::::: ! ~::~~ ff Gym Shorts ..... $ 5.95 to $7.95 ~~::~:~~~~~~li rts. Spe~i~l :$: ::~~ ~ Union T-Shirts ... Special$ 6.66 ~ \Super Stripe\ Shirts ..... $ 8.95 .... \SnoptJy Nylon Pullovers ... Special .~ $8.88 : .. Garnet Wurm Up t3aseball Jackets .., $ 17 .95 ·'I:J \Rainbow\ L:ong Sleeve Pullovers ·.o. $ 17.95 ~ Plus Dozens of Other Styles •r~:J ~ for Summer Action ~ •• Youth Sizes Too New Spring T-Shirts You'll Love! Bon Appettt NEW YORK'S FINEST PURE MAPLE SYRUP = t=. ••• .. Y2 Pint .... Sale Price $3.33 1 Quart ... Sale Price $6.66 1 Pint .... Sale Price $4.44 Y2 Gallon . . Sale Price $9.99 1 Gallon .......... Sale Price$19.00 GUARANTEE. We are so sure that you'll agree that this is the finest maple sy.rup you have tasted that we are offering DOUBLE YOUR MONEY BACK if you don't agree. Just return the unused portion, 1n the orogonal container, with your receipt and we will refund, 1 n cash, DOUBLE THE PURC E PR·ICE. Offer ires June 30, 1982. Aluminum Tankard Special $6.66 . . UNION BASEBALL CA.P $5.49 \Wilber\ and Friends ............... Reg. $4.44 Sale Price $2.22 All Stuffed Animals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Half Price All Nylon/Canvas Back Packs & Totes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Half Priee Plastic Letter Key Chains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Reg. $ 1.19 Sale Price .49 \Juan\. Poster ....................... Reg. $1.25 Sale Price . 69 College Montage Print .............. Reg. $3.95 Sale Price $1.00 Nott Memorial with Fireworks Print ..... Reg.$ 1'.89 Sale Price .89 Union College 3- Ring Binder· ........ Reg. $2.79 Sale Price $1.79 Union College Disposable Lighters ........ Reg $1.98 Sale Price .99 Leaded Crystal Animals ............. Reg. $6.00. Sale Price $3.00 Ceramic Hand Painted Birds .......... Reg $5. to $25. HalfPrice Sheaffer \TRZ\ Ball Point Pens ........ Reg. $5. to $15. Half Price All Crested jewerly (except College Rings) . . . . . . . . . . . . . Half Price Cork Bulletin Boards ............ Reg. $5.9 5 to $14.00 Half Price Union College Digital Time/Date Desk Clocks ... $19.95 ·Sale $9.95 Ceramic Friends ..................... Reg. $4.98 Sale Price .99 Unien College Bottle Openers . . . . . . . . . . . . Reg. $6.95 Sale $3.00 Union College Crested Blazer Badges :- ..... Reg. $10.95 Sale $5.00 Racquetball Rackets ................ Reg. $9.99 Sale Price $4.66 \Write 'N' Wipe\ Memo Boards ..... Reg. $2 .. 99 to $3.99 HalfPrice All Sterling on Crystal Giftware . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Half Price \Ale & Hearty\ set of 4-13 oz. Mugs (Boxed) Reg. $8.88 Half Price Shaving/Coffee Mug ............... Reg. $5.95 Sale Price $ LOO Hand Painted Porcelain Figurines . . . . . . Reg. $? .00 Sale Price $4.00 Wooden Boxes with Brass Decoy . . . . . Reg. $19. to $24. Half Price Oversized T Bags . . . . . . . . . . . . Reg. $12.9 5 Sale Price $5.9 5 SELECTED TITLES CAMPUS STORE THURSDAY FRIDAY 8:45 .. 4:30 SATURDAY 9:00-5:00 ,. 8:45-4:30

Page 8A PARENT'S WEEKEND, May 1·9, 1982 for Summer Action Youth Sizes Too New Spring T-Shirts You'll love! Bon Appettt NEW YORK'S FINEST PURE MAPLE SYRUP % Pint .... Sale Price $3.33 1 Quart ... Sale Price $6.66 1 Pint . . . . Sale Price $4.44 Y2 Galion . . Sale Price $9.99 1 Gallon .......... Sale Price $19.00 GUARANTEE We are so sure that you'll agree tnat this •s the f1nest maple syrup you have tasted that we are offer~ng DOUBLE YOUR MONEY BACK d you don't agree. Just return the unused port1on. 1n the or~g1nal conta•ner. w1th your recetpt and we will refund. 1 n cash, DOUBLE THE PURCHASE PRICE. Offer exptres June 30, 1982. Aluminum Tankard Special $6.66 ... oz., UNION BASEBALL CAP $5.49 \Wilber\ and Friends ............... Re12:. $4.44 Sal~ Price $2.22 All Stuffed Animals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Half Price All Nylon/Canvas Back Packs & Totes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Half Pri€e Plastic Letter Key Chains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Reg. $ 1.19 Sale Price .49 ''] uan\ Poster ....................... Reg. $1.25 Sale Price .69 College Montage Print .............. Reg. $3.95 Sale Price $1.00 Nott Memorial with Fireworks Print . . . . . Reg. $1.89 Sale Price .89 Union College 3-Ring Binder' ........ Reg. $2.79 Sale Price $1.79 Union College Disposable Lighters ........ Reg $1.98 Sale Price .99 Leaded Crystal Animals ............. Reg. $6.00 Sale Price $3.00 Ceramic Hand Pain ted Birds .......... Reg $5. to $25. Half Price Sheaffer \TRZ\ Ball Point Pens ........ Reg. $5. to $15. Half Price All Crested jewerly (except College Rings) . . . . . . . . . . . . . Half Price Cork Bulletin Boards ............ Reg. $5.95 to $14.00 Half Price Union College Digital Time/Date Desk Clocks ... $19.95 Sale $9.95 Ceramic Friends ..................... Reg. $4.98 Sale Price .99 Unien College Bottle Openers ............ Reg. $6.95 Sale $3.00 Union College Crested Blazer Badges : . .... Reg. $10.95 Sale $5.00 Racquetball Rackets ................ Reg. $9.99 Sale Price $4.66 \Write 'N' Wipe\ Memo Boards ..... Reg. $2.99 to $3.99 Half Price All Sterling on Crystal Giftware . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Half Price \Ale & Hearty\ set of 4 -13 oz. Mugs (Boxed) Reg. $8.88 Half Price Shaving/Coffee Mug ............... Reg. $5.95 Sale Price $1.00 Hand Painted Porcelain Figurines . . . . . . Reg. $8.00 Sale Price $4.00 Wooden Boxes with Brass Decoy . . . . . Reg. $19. to $24. Half Price Oversized Toiletry Bags ............ Reg. $12.95 Sale Price $5.95 SELECTED TITLES CAMPUS STORE 8:45-4:30 FRIDAY 8:45-4:30 SATURDAY 9:00-5:00 : ~-~. the l his fl in• succ stud bet; fine cert: carr shm Cab Al drel he a Mit• the spli the fort por \m· rigl me 20• be: fac 'I po~ !·To ~-' F Off - 1

atch igles ence it of and lt its !ond also ving iling wart 1ker, went ~ven right in a teve lost . fell :atch two :1 off and 1, the itself lean ears, nthe trrah 1ixed raise 'here mtry l can :teve 11 the .ates. ; the 00 00 00 00 00 00 :oo' :00 :00 ... I I I I I I I I I 1 • .8 0 .... 0 .s: ~ r:: ~ <0 ~ <0 \'0 .I: ...J >- .a 0 0 .s: Q. CXI, No. 23 Defense attorney F. Lee Bailey spoke last Friday at Memoria 1 Chapel. ~ 4.· ollege 1877 By A.J.BRODSKY Editorain-Chief F. Lee Bailey, noted defense attorney and author, spoke to a capacity crowd in Memorial Chapel this past Friday evening. Bailey's name has become a household word as a result of his masterful defenses of Sam Shepard, the \Boston Strangler'' and Patricia Eearst . • After introduction by Speakers Forum Chairman Howard Goldsmith, Bailey launched into the presentation which May 13, 1982 ·Draws Crowd culminated in his personal solution to crime in America. mitted. He added that they shollldbe hospitalized until they are \cleansed of what makes them go on a looney binge.\ This point led into a discussion of the present handling of those imprisoned. ForUm Hears Complaints Outside of Memorial Chapel, while people were entering to attend the address, a group of parents and students from the community demonstrated in a picket line. The group, allegedly organized by Doris Aiken of Remove Intoxicated, Drivers, protested Bail~y·s recent trial for drunk driving charges in California. Bailey was defended successfully in a jury trial and acquitted of all charges. The protesters apparently found fatllt in the decision and aired their position in signs and posters. Bailey first addressed the problem of rising crime and the personalities of criminals. He characterized the rate of illegal activity in the U.S. as \out of control.\ Bailey went on to claim that the present law enforcement community along with the court systems do not clearly understand the motivations of criminals. He implied that harsh punishments will not inhibit criminal ac- tivity. Heavy penalties, com- mented Bailey, will only en- courage hardened offenders to kill accomplices and agents to protect themselves in the case of prosecution. Bailey believes that the present penitentary system on-ly produces .hardened criminals. He contends that there is no rehabilitative benefits from the present programs. As such, continued Bailey, seventy _per cent of those imprisoned are repeat of£enders. ''We don't do anything for them.\ Despite this liberal contention, Bailey strongly believes that parole is out of the question for people like Manson and Sirhan Sirhan. ''Crazies must be restrined according to their illnesses\ stressed the attorney. By MARCY BURSTINER Staff On Monday, May 10, the Student Forum met to discuss the week's agenda. On the agenda were the library display cases, the WRUC constitution, the effect that the planned renovations of Silliman Hall would have on the photo club''s darkroom facilities, the possibility of purchasing a personal computer for a more efficient committee budget accounting system, Senior Fling, and the Senior Gift. Many of the above issues were held over until next week because additional information was needed. Other issues were brought up by students present at the meeting. Two students, Mike Newman and Tom Megerian, came to the Forwn meeting to represent the photo club. Newman received a memo from Dean Spring on May 1, requesting that the photo club move their equipment out ot Silliman Hall due to planned renovations of Silliman Hall. According to Newman, the club was not consulted on the deoislon and many important factors were not taken into account. The darkroom in Silliman Hall took two years to build and cost an estimated $1,000. In order to meet the June 1 deadline for moving out, the .90 members of the photo club plus certain campus publications would have to. be partially rei.Inbursed for the money they paid to use the darkroom. In addition, funds .have not already been set aside to build a new darkroom, nor has a room been given to the club. They have, continued Newman, thousands of dollars worth of equipment and at the moment, no place to store it. As it is, in order to dissemble ~he darkroom, 3- 4 people would be needed. He explained that it would be impossible t() find volunteers to help move during Camp Union or the week before finals. Another major issue dealt with at the meeting was budget finance. Pete McCaffrey, Vice President in charge of Finance, brought up the· possibility of purchasing a personal com- puter to keep accurate records of committee budgets. Gary Chadick,_ Vice President for Administration, suggested that if this was not possible, then all checks should be signed by Finance Committee members. It was also suggested that Grants'-in-Aids might be used for budget accounting. Shari Midoneck:, Freshmen Representative, suggested that something should be done to prevent the misuse of funds, instead of j11st dealing with the problems as they come along. The discussion then shifted to WRUC. Gary Chadick ex- plained that a committee was in the process of redoing the WRUC constitution and that they wollld \take some of the old constitution and some of the new, to work out an acceptable 19Bt83.F ALL TERM PREREGISTRATION NOTICE . . Pre-registration materials fo.r fall term 1982~ .Will . be available at the Office of the Regtstrar, Room 2, AdmmiStratlon Building, beginning Monday, May 17th. S~udents are urged to promptly secure their copy of these matertaLs. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the .fall t~rm, exc~pt for graduating seniors, must immediately g1ve not1ce of thetr plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. . . Students should confer with Faculty Advisers durmg the we~k of May 17·21. Some departments may announce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such an- nouncements. . . . Course requests are due at the Off1ce of the RegiStrar not later than Monday, May 24th. A TEN DOLLAR ($10.00) LA:t'E FEE WILL BE ASSESSED THEREAFI'ER! Please be on tune even though your schedule may be incomplete. Office of the Registrar May, 1982 PLEASE NOTE: REQUIRED PEnMISSION CARDS FOR DESIGNATED FALL TERM COURSES· WI·LL NOT BE AVAILABLE FROM DEPARTMENTS UNTIL THE THUR· SDAY MORNING OF THE WEEK OF PREREGISTRATION, MAY 20. solution. Josh Lowry, a student present at the meeting, com- plained that Jeff Mitchell was still acting as D.J. at WRUC even though he was removed, by the Forum, from any \of- ficial connections\ with tile station. Weldon Turner decided that until the question of whether or not Mitchell should be able to retain his role as D .J., he would have to stay off'the air. This brought protests from tile members of WRUC wh() were present, and Jeff Mitchell threatened, at that point, to get around the Forum's declsion by appearing as a ·~guest'' ()n other D.J. shows. No issues were voted. on by the Forum at this meetin~. Most of the issues were put on next week's agenda as additional information needed to be gathered. Bailey categorized such criminals as the \Boston Strangler\ John Hinkley and Charles Manson as \crazies\. These \crazies\, according to the speaker, \must be Viewed is different.\ Bailey said that such deviants should be picked up off the streets before they become homicidal and civilly com- Fund A Success By MARCY BURSTINER Staff Thursday, May 6, marked the final day of the .student phonathon . According to Paul Rieschik, Director ()f the Annual Fund, it was thE ''best phonathon in history.\ In the four nights that the campaign took place, students received 1,047 pledges, 7 above last years record. The pledges add~d up to $49,369, exceeding the record se't the previous year J>.y $7868. This set an all-time Student Phonathon record and was only $650 short of the best phmathon in Union College history. The first night of the Student Phonathon set a single night recorl:l as $20,985 was pledged. The . winning teams in this year's phonathon ·competition were \The Operators',. led by West Rappaport, and \The Nankins\ led by Matt Nankin. campaign that they signed up for additional nights. Allan Smith of \The Operators\ for instance, showed up for three out of the four nights. · Rieschik added that the Student Phonathon Committee, . consisting of Senior Chairman John Jarosak, Seniors Bill Curtin, Seth Mendelowitz and Debbie Rudolph, Sophomore Karen Gr.eaves, and Freshmen Brad Haigis and Lori Kaplan, put in an enormous amount of work. All the members were at the phonathon all four nights and put in many hours preparing the event. On the whole, the phonathon ended as a success and all involved seemed eager to participate in next year's campaign. Prizes for all winners in tile competition may be claimed from Paul Rieschik in room 303 of Lamont House. Bailey next tackled the question of why criminals corrunit illegal acts against society. Money and power, both integrally related, are the motivations of average criminals contended the speaker. \Crime contrary to the popular notion, does pay well,\ stated Bailey. He went on to cite several. examples of money-motivated criminals. The \men of high stature\ involved in Abscam was one exemplification as well as the \hoakers\ of New York City. But, added Bailey on a humouroqs note, ''I have no personal interest in depriving hookers of their livelihood.\ Bailey took great offense in smugglers, especially those involved in the drug traffic. Stated the attorney, \drug smuggling is the biggest business in the world.\ Bailey corrunented that one kilo of material to be used for cocaine was worth $250 in the field. By the time that material hits the streets, it is eight kilos of 12 per cent cocaine worth $800,000. Bailey made similar con- versions with marijuana. \With this profit margin,\ added Bailey, \their will always be people taking the risks.\ Bailey believes that the \common denominator\ of all these criminals, especially drug smugglers, is money. Cash, says the speaker, ''changefllitle with possession\ so it is difficult to control. Cash assures anonymity, the lack of records and the lack of proof for law enforcement officials. Bailey's bottom line solution to crime is the elimination of cash and cash transactions from everyday life. \Cash disrupts and corrupts as long as it has Continued on page 2 Individual winners in the competition were AllisoJJ Barry, Scott Fitzgerald, Michelle Hudson, Matt Nankin, Al Smith, Tim Smith, and Linda Wallen. Rieschik commented that the Election 'Stat,caments P'P· 1 0-12 ·most unusual feature of the campaign was that. it went very smoothly. There no problems and everyone on thE whole seemed to have good time. He went on to say th~t a record amount of food and drillks were finished off. Many students· were so enthusiastic about the pp. e-9 p. 13. . •pp·lO 14-16

Page 2 CONCORDIENSI:S, Ma,y 1~~ 19.82 ~. New Course Offered Prizes A warded By JUDIE STEINHARDT Staff On Mond'ay, May 10, there was an organizational meeting in the Science and Fngineering Building, room S301, to discuss a new course. The course is \Images of the Sea.'' It is an interdisciplinary course taught by five professors from four different fields of specialization. The course will be offered for a ten day period, from September 1 to 10 at • Shoal's Marine Lab, Cornell University's lab on Appledore r stand, one of the Isles of Shoals ,ff the coast of New Hampshire. The course will continue weekly •hrough fall term with two hour meetings on campus. It will cost $250 in addition to fall tuition, and some scholarship aid may be available. It is a liberal learning course and will count toward category B of the I .iberal Learning Requirement. The topics covered will be: Philosophy and Religion, taught by President Morris; Engineering, taught by Professor Weiss; Biology, taught by Dr. Shadler and Professor B<Jyer; and Sociology, taught by Dean Kaplan. The idea is to focus on islands, the influence of the sea on islands, and man's relationship to the sea. The island is remote, isolated, and in Professor BoyEr's words, \a good place to get away from it all.\ No prerequisite is needed, and one can focus on the aspect in which he or she is interested. The course will be limited to fifteen people. a,nd sign up is until May 17. Anyone accepted to the.program must make a $50 non-refundable deposit. The philosophy section of the course will focus on creation and man's place in eternity. The sociology part will be about the unique atmosphere presented on islands. The biology viewpoint will examine the evolving of species on the island. There are no unique species on the island, but there are varieties of animals and plants within the same species. There will be special research instruments available for research. Professor Shadler, whose specialty is zoology, adds that the island has one of the CAMP UNION IS COMING ATTENTION SENIORS The Commencement Committee is currently looking fo·r the Senior Speaker for the commencement ceremony. Send your speech to Box No. 2509 with your student I.D. no. largest seagull rookeries in the world.· The engineering aspect will focus on harnessing the tides of the sea for energy, and the problems in constructing bridges and other structures over bodies of water. Sign up is open to all students. Students will be selected on the basi's of interest and disciplinary mix. Tlle course· is a unique opportunity t() study the sea. Bailey Speaks • • Assistant Professor Martin Benjamin and Associate ProfesS()r Charles Steckler of the Depart_ment of the Arts were each awarded First Prizes in the Fourth Annual Photography Regional that runs through May 19 at the Center Galleries in Albany. Of the fi.ve First Prizes a:w arded., Katherine Kreisher of Albany was aJso a recipient and Ms. Kreisher w-ill be teaching in the summer session ·eve.ning division. The. Photography Regional had over 800 photographs submitted and internationally renowned photo- journalist Mary Ellen Mark selected 99 photographs f()r the exhibition and awarded the prizes.. Union College photography students also fared well. Billy Chartoff, Thomas DeMarco, Todd Kierstad, Ray Masse, Paul Nickels burg, Peter Smiley, and Michael Winikoff had photographs selected for the show. Jim Archibald, Class of 1981 and former photography lab technician in the Arts Department, also had wo11k selected and was awarded an honorable mention. The exhibition wili'also be shown at Colonie Center from May 24 - May 30. Continued from page 1 value,\ stated the speaker. Bailey asks, ''who would rob a bank if there was no money in it; who would knock down a woman if there was not an expectation of a reward?\ All that would be needed to institute such a program, suggests the attorney, would be the ap- propriate electronic banking techniques. Additionally, a licensing system would have to be enstated for those who need cash for overseas needs. Says Bailey, \felons don't qualify for licensing when ID checks are made.\ He added that under such a system, \smugglers also could not spend their money; trade would come down rapidly·.\ Bailey provided an alter~ native to his no-cash economy to combat crime. He stated that if we could convince all youngsters that ... if they work hard within their own sphere, money could be made without breaking the law to get it,\ the problem would be solved. But added Bailey, \do not hang by -WE DELIVER- 374-1888 ****~********* ~DELTA GAMMA'S '\\ OCEAN PARTY - \ FRI., MAY 14, C? 3 P.M. Don't miss this spring bash on the lawn behind the fieldhouse I Sea Breezes, Blue Whales, Cape Codders and Beer BE THERE ALOHA! ************** your thumbs waiting for tl!is to happen.\ Education app~ars to Bailey as effective only to a degree. Bailey concluded his formal presentation on this note and opened the floor up for questions. The most controversial question brought up the subject of Bailey's arrest and trial. Bailey discussed his successful defense strategy and his rationale for fighting the charges. Bailey believes that it is unconstitutional to ta:ke a breathaHzer or other such equivalent tests withoutcounsel to aid in making the best choice. Furthermore, he contended that \police are not qualified to be judges,.' Bailey felt that there is a definite need for a nelltral to administer the tests. He fears that it is possible for 'law en\ forcement officials to falsify results so as to not be sued in the case of a false arrest. Bailey presented evidence at his lengthy trial proving ''tll.at it is easy to corrupt the tests.\ 464 State St. Schenectady, NY THIEF WARRIOR GLADIATOR KI:NG A Musical Comedy To be Performed May 20-22 May 27-29 at 8:00 p.m$ Tickets are on sale now at the Nott Memoria I box office and Carnegie Hall. Tickets are $3.00 for students and facu tty, and $4.00 for the general pub I ic. - at w hf fo pi h< pi p< st m fE rE tr SJ tt Ill st 81 oJ s1 A tl c a c a il f t 1

as er at - OONOORDlENSISJ May !3, 198! Page 3 Sports Money (CPS)~A group of women athletes and coaches at Washington State University has won a major court victory for their women's sports program, and in the process have ,gwen athletes at cam- puses across the country a potentially significant new legal strategy for getting more money for their programs. Rather than suing under federal anti-discrimination regulations, which are the traditional bases of women's sports . advocates' complaints, the WSU women claimed the university was violating the state Equal Rights Amendment and other state laws. \The case was really the first of its kind in terms of using the state ERA,\ says Judith Andrews, executive director of the Northeast Women's Law Center, which represented the athletes and coaches. \It could affect a lot of schools in a similar position to WSU, especially in the 15 states with (their own) equal rights amendments.\ The athletes and coaches claime~ the university was not adequately funding women's intercollegiate athletics. In the dozens of similar cases filed around the nation, women's sports advocates typically try to get equal treatment for their programs by suing under Title IX of the Higher Education Amendments of 1972. Title IX forbids recipients of federal funds to discriminate on the basis of gender. Andrew~ chose to ignore Title IX in her suit because it \is not only having trouble in the courts, but - it's also unclear whether it will survive the Reagan administration,'' which she claims is watering down enforcement of all civil rights laws. - But in weighing Washington State's spo~s funding on a scale of the state ERA, Washington Superior Court Judge Phillip Faris not only made WSU pay damages to ·the athletes and cQaches, but ordered a wide range of changes in the way WSU funds sports. Faris told· WSU to fund women's pr;ograms in direct proportion to the percentage of fen1ale athletes in in- tercollegiate athletics in the state. Since women's programs involve 32.5 percent of he athletes at Washington colleges, Faris ordered WSU to give women's programs 32.5 percent of its intercollegiate sports budget. But the football program, which gets $1.5 million of the . total $4.5 million WSU sports budget, was exempted from the total budget from which the 32.5 percent must come. If football was ·included, women's progr~ would get an additional $ .5 million in funding. Under Faris' formula, they . will get an additional $200,000. \ \We're very, very pleased with the damage awards,\ Andrews says. ''We're ob- viously disappointed that football has been exempted (from the proportional for:. mula).\ WSU attorney Rick Woods, on the other hand, is \very happy that football was excluded. We're happy with the decision the way it stands.\ NCAA Legal Services Director Steve Morgan isn't . sure the tactic of suing under state ERAs and the propora tional funding decision will \have tha~ significant an effect across the coWltry .\ Morgan says that most in- stitutions already fit the \funding in proportion to participation'' guidelines, \particularly when you take football out.'' ACROSS 1 Talk idly 6 Apportion 11 Click beetle 12 Wanted 14 Tellurium symbol 15 Angers 17 Scale note 18 Possesses 20 Taxes 21 Resort 22Discover 24 Map abbr. 25Tumbled 26 Second showings 28 Retinues 30 Frozen water 31 Make lace 32 Waltzes 35 Hinders 38 Pilaster 39 Article 41 Leak 42 Possessive pronoun 43-de men the 45 Nahoor · sheep 46 Quiet! 47 Menhaden 49 Latin con- junction 50 Color 52 Sippers 54 Enocunters 55 Worms DOWN 1 Gratify 2 Sun god 3 Devoured 4Wigwam 5 Mistakes 6 Corners 7 Dregs B Man's nick- name 9 Hypothetical force 10 Tabernacle 11 Anesthetic 13.Ciock laces 16 High; Mus. 19 Dashes 21 Sofas 23 Lily plant 25 Decrees 27 Born 29 Shoshonean 32 Field flower 33 National hymn 34 Scatters 35 Death 36 Renovates Financial Aid Info Abnormally Delayed (CPS )__;This is normally the season when students apply for aid for the next school year. But this year, they're not finding anything out. Congressional debate and administration delays ·iJl im- plementing federal aid programs may stan the awarding of aid until late summer or early fall, and have thrown tl:1e 1982-83 college plans of as many as four million students into limbo, aid officers say. \No o~te is in a position right now to make commitments to the students,\ says Dallas Martin of the National Associatlon of Financial Aid Administrators in Washington, D.C. Aid officers across the country don't yet know how much mcmey they'll have for students next fall, or who they'll be allowed to award it to until Congress and the ad- ministration make up their minds. Some even suspect the ad- ministration aware it may not get the euts it asked for from Congress, may purposefully be delaying new eligibility rules for some programs to save money by forcing students to go on without them. \Frankly Martin says, ''there are people in Washington who, if they feel they are not going to get the cuts ·cROSS WORD PUZZLE FROM COLLEGE PRESS SERVICE 37 Quarrels 40 Cut 43 Coagulate 44 Newts 47 Beverage 48 Bitter vetch 51 French article 53~Diphthong Answer Oil page 14 they asked for, will be willing to just delay the system as long as possible in order to save money.\ Last March, Secretary of Education Terrel Bell imposed an unprecedented temporary freeze on the .processing of aid applications until Congress voted on the aid cutbacks the administration had proposed. The resultant \delay this year is going to be incredible,\ predicts Idaho aid Director Harry Davey. For the first time in its history, Idaho gives students only \financial aid · plans\ instead of commitments. The plans tell students ''we can only meet the student's need if we have the money. It's a small comfort for these people. You can't eat promises,\ Davey laments. Kent State similarly sends students a \letter that gives them a theoretical computation of what they can expect to receive. We've never had to write a letter quite like it,\ reports William Johnson, KSU's aid director. \We don't know if they'll be able to get that money or not.\ Central State University in Oklahoma, among many others, gives students similarly-thin assurances. Consequently, aid Counselor Diana Franklin spends much of her time soothing applicants. \Students are coming in to llS with a lot of questions. We're trying to eas their minds. There are definitely going to be cuts, but we don't want students to panic, thinking that they'll have to drop out of school,\ she says. Franklin believes · most students can avoid that fate, but a University of Miami (~.) student who asked to be iden- tified only as Harvey isn't sure. ''They (campus aid officials) say they can put something together for me, but they can't tell me about it until the fall, and they say I shouldn't count on it anyway,\ he says. \What am I supposed to do if I wait untUfall and can't afford to go? It'll be too late to get in a cheaper school.\ \If I could find a job now, I would, and tell school to screw off for a few years.\ \No matter what happens,\ summarizes Miami aid Director Ron Hammond, ~.'everyone will suffer the effects of uncertainty.\ ''Kids from low-income families are in the most precarious spot,\ observes Kent State's Johnson, \but we have more alternatives to offer them. I expect that middle- income kids will take the hardest rap.\ Martin contends that ''poor students and students who are unfamiliar with how the financial aid system works are the most likely to become discouraged, and drop their plans. The longer we have to wait, the more serious the problem becomes.'' \A great number of students would love to work their way thro11gh school,, Martin adds, \but the chances that they could. earn enough to play a role are slim, and worse,. as often as not they can't find a job at all.\ At Malcolm X College in Chicago, Aid Director Ramiro Borja expects that many of the students driven from school by the delays \will be replaced, often by people who can't find a job. This is kind of like survival of the fittest. Those who can't hack it will get out of the system.\ \It's sad to lose people. This is not always a great profession to be in.\ • F. D. S. Party 0 X A v I D $ 0 N 0 u T H ~- ( MAY 21st, 3:00-7:00 featuring \Tourist\ The Campus Store Presents: WRUC will be having elections for all Executive Board positions on Monday, May 17 at 8:00. All station members are expected to be there. The offices of General PEANUTS@ by Charles M. Schulz ''SPEED LEARNING\? IT REALLY -WORKG •.• NOW I CAN GET A l 1 D MINUS\ ON TUESDAY INSTEAD OF FRIDAY! Manager, Program Manager, Business Manager, and Promotional Manager will be elected. Strauss Lounge, 8:00, Monday!

LU - t. • >- .0 0 0 .c Cl.. Page 4 CONOORDIENSIS, May 13, 1982 features Mon;y, a most viable candidate for Student Forum president, can always be found aroun,d campus and is always willing, to lend a paw. Monty \Js MPssa!{fl A New Dogmatism ·By MONTY Canines throughout history Library has actually increased waste my time chasing parked have aided and shared in man's the generallevel of security. My cars.\ positive and negative en- knowledge of friendly students, Let us return to an age of deavors. Rin Tin Tin and Lassie professors, and other living innocence with responsibility. are fine examples ef the type of creatures coupled with my \Some may think I am barking contributions that our four previous three years on the up the wrong tree. I disagree. I legged friends can make. Some campus grounds attests to a would say I have a bone to pick have questioned the legitimacy level of integrity that is un- with this community. And I of my candidacy. Others have surpassed. I stand as a symbol, think I speak for all my furry made slanderous and injurious a white four legged symbol. friends when I say: I stand for statements about alleged \The bark stops here.\ I make youth and innocence, where confrontations with security. no campaign promises, or students, men and women, and Clearly my presence in front disparaging statements about their pets can live in mutual co- on he Pizza Pub and Schaefer my fellow candidates. \I don't existence. D. MacDonald: Mass Cul.t By THOMAS CHING Staff Two 'decades ago, the high priests of haute culture rallied against the inevitable advent and proliferation of \Masscult.\ In the words' ()f critic Dwight MacDonald, the \Masscult\ would not be \just unsuccessful art. It is non-art. It is even anti-art.\ Now Masscult a.k.a. pop culture, schlock:, kitsch or simply trash seems to reign over the culture hori2on, like some noxious pollutant from the e;xhausts of the Con· corde. Pop culture has joined Ute American trio of Morton's apple pie, roller disco, and Toyotas. It has invaded almost every area of entertainment like Ute :mycelium of some lethal fungi. The haustorium slowly penetrates the movies, books, and television. The presence <>f the Masscult factor is obvious in the ten all-time money oozing movies: Grease, , Jaws, The Exorcist, Superman, Star Wars, and Love Story. But tllis rampant mycelium infects the blazing best-sellers too. Ben- chley'sJaws, Lucas' Star Wars, and Segal's Love Story were the debutantes on tne society scene via the New York Times best- seller list. Though the presence of lightweight cultural material is hardly surprising it is nonetheless striking in its ap-· peal. Book buyers inundated their neighborhood Barnes and Nobles in search of Miss Piggy's Guide to Uve, 101 Uses for a Dead Cat and other literary cotton candy. Mean- while, television worshippers were glued passively to their sets watching the televised version of Judith Krantz's kitschy roman a clefs Scruples and the evil doings of Miss Ellie on Dallas. However to suggest that all Masscult is schlock would be a great injustice. They would be considered to be the cotton candy of the mind when it is too uncomfortable to digest\ quality material. Perhaps, Judith Krantz should be considered an alternative rather than a substitute for Susan Sontag. Krantz's writing, like all en- tertainment, distractions, and maybe diversion without any promises of cultural valae. When it offers more by stimulating aesthetic responses it ceases to be Masscult and emerges as art. Unlike art, Masscult is easy to absorb and requires no response. Hence a masscult film like Raiders of the Lost Ark or novels in the Harlequin line function on the masscult level because it ap- peals to the naive child in the adult spectator. Actually, despite all the in- tricate aesthetic distinction, good-bad masscult appeals to some whimsical people for the same reason that simple good masscult appeals to <>ther- s: entirely as a source of fun. Ultimately masscult is an annoyance and a hazard to those who take it seriously which seldom includes those who enjoy it. Only 31 Days Until Graduation! (This time, the count is correct) Anyone in1erested in taking summer courses at Union please contact Graduate and Conti-nuing Studies at x6288. Catalogues available at Wells House. Satire: U.C. Labor Camp My descent .into the camps began the swruner of my 16th year. 1 was sllll1Ii1oned to .ap- pear before an interrogation board on 4 September. With fear and trepidation, I boarded the transit train at Grand Central Station. Armed only with a set of directions and my last pack of cigarettes, I rode for 3lfz hours. When the station stop Schenectady was announced fear gripped my heart, for I knew that this was the home of Union College, Labor Camp. Clutching my meager possessions te my breast, I trudged through ankle deep mud, and made my way to the Admissions Office. I was shown into the interrogation chamber. There I was greeted by a small man of steely eyes, who said \This will only take a minute.\ He questioned me as to the people I knew, what I knew, tne activities I participated in during the last four years, and to what groups I owed allegiance. I presented all my documents, answered his· questions to the best of my ability, and was dismissed with the ominous words, \We'll be in tough with you.\ Months passed, and I received notice that I had been sentenced to four hard years of labor in . . . Schenectady. Upon arrival I was met by a group of student functionaries known as O.A.S. I was escorted to my cell, given a key, a good stuff box to aid my survival, lectured on the. severe penalties ·af plagiarism, and labeled with my student I.D. number. My picture was· taken and I was obliged to carry this document at all times. Next I received my meal card, a substitute for cash in this strange society. My head reeling from this vast in- doctrination, I entered West College dining hall. In a corner I noticed a group licking their bowls. I was informed in hushed tones that these goners were \Seniors\ who had lost all will to live beyond graduation. The rations were plentiful, yet discolored. Despite this, I ate them, realizing that this was essential to my survival. I had yet to learn through the ''in- formal\ system money could be used to obtain Domino's Pizza at any hour of the night. My next shock occurred when a loud alarm roused me from my needed sleep. The barrack elder dragged me from my bed and forced me to stand outside in the cold for an undesignated length of time, dressed only in a towel. We stood there until the last student was located and evacuated from the building. We then werit back inside and the drill was repeated. I questioned the elder about the reason for this procedure. I was told that it was camp policy and that I should learn to live with it. Once the shack began to wear off, I regressed to a childlike state, wishing only to emulate the functionaries. This desire drove me to such places as the Rathskellar and the Pub at any and all hours, as · well as honoring every summons I received to appear at fraternity gatherings. Alcoholism was condoned at this society; moreover, it was respected and a way to gain social position. The workload was astonishing. However, the quota could be met .in a number of ways: 1) Saying you read it and nodding the head at key moments -- this was called \Tufta\ or sleezing; 2) Obtaining old test papers through a social network and passing them off as one's own; 3) Doing \favors\ for high ranking campus officials. My moral standards had sunk low enough to engage in the .first two activities, but not the third. Everyone looked down on those who fell into the third category - -they were known as \throats.\ These goners were not above stealing books from the campus orficiai's collection and ''borrowing notebooks from other students who needed them for their survival.\ Another group of contemptibles were the tnformers. Elders and corrupt inmates engaged in nox\ous activity. By shunning these activities, I wa~ able - to maintain my inner hold and survive intact. I lived day to day, my only goal being liberation. However, as the time for liberation ap- proached, I became afraid of the outer world, unsure of my ability to cope away from this environment. I was informed that my sentence had been extended, and that ·I had been transferred to 'the sister camp _ at Albany for three more yea;rs. I have written this treatise to bear witness of what I have seen, and to inform others who will enter this · camp in the future. Some say that this cannot happen in AmeriGa. I know better, for I am a sur- vivor. DELTA GAMMA OLYMPICS '82 Sponsor your favorite team by purchasing ci Raffle Ticket. Plenty of Prizes to WIN! SUPPORT YOUR TEAM! May 22, 1982 at ·11 :00 a.~. '

in a the and and I the was and the any as I was and was uota of and key 2) pers and high My low two bove and ethe to and only ever, ap- id of my this been been to have who the this I sur- OONOORDIENSIS, May 13, 198! Page 5 # features Thesis Research: Barbados Style By DAVE FITZGERALD Next year two Sociology majors with an interest it! anthropology Will be doing their Senior Thesis research in an unordinary but exciting place. Iris Cohen and Polly Wheeler will be going to Bar.bados next year during winter term to do research. They will be going with Professors Georgt! and Sharon Grnekh who are also going to Barbados to do research. Both Iris and Polly wanted Professor Gmelch to be their thesis advisors and when Professor G. Gmelch saw how interested they both were in anthropology he asked them if they would go to Barbados. The reason that Barbados was picked is that Professor G. - Gmelch was awarded a research grant to study the effects of return migration. Professor Gmelch stressed that although Iris and Polly will be studying return migration their research will be separate from his and separate from each other's. Polly Wheeler has done field work before and will be doing it again this summer on an Indian reservation in New Mexic.Q as part. of her preparation for her thesis. Her research on the reservation is part of a summer program devel?ped . by Nor- thwestern Umverstty. ;S~e hopes to be able to compare the experiences. of Indians that have retuffied to the reser- vation after going to the city · with those of Barbadians that have returned to their island from the city. Last summer Polly lived and worked on the Sioux River Indian Reser- vation. She fotmd living on a reservation to be 'interesting and rewarding but also difficult to get to know and relate to the natives. After graduation Polly hopes tojoin the Peace Corps. Iris Cohen does not have an exact focus on what aspect of return migration that she will study but thinks that it may have something to do _with Caribbean culture. This sum- mer Iris will be doing an in- dependent project to learn more about Caribbean society and to prepare· her~elf more for. her research. In the fall she w11l be a teaching assistant here at Union in the Sociology Department. If not too busy, !J;is hopes that she will be able to do a little skin diving and · underwater photo_graphy while in Barbados. Iris hopes that her field work in Barbados will give her valuable experience because she would like to be able to do more field work after she graduates. Professor Gmelch would like to see Iris and Polly live with a Barbadian family while they are on the island but if that cannot be arranged they will live at The Oceanographic Institute sponsored by McGill University. Professor Gmelch feels that it would be a disadvantage if Polly and Iris were not able to live with a native family. To help Professor. Gmelc~, Iris and Polly w1th thetr research will be Jeffrey Broomes, who is currently a high school teacher in Barbados and is a graduate of Union College in 1975. He will be a help because he knows the area and the people and he also knoWs some famill:es that have returned to the. island. Iris and Polly are both very glad that the the other will be going because being alone on an unfamiliar island will be new to each of them. Although Professor Gmelch will be supervising their research, he wiH not be there for them every day. Once they start their research, they will be on their own. This type of research is something n.ew at Union, but ProfessorGrnelch says that it is not so unusual at other schools and that :he has done it before with other 'Students. This trip ts unlike the Term Abroad Program at Union though because research will be done instead of going to classes. The educational purpose of this trip is strictly for research. Iris Co.hen and Polly Wheeler appear eager to beg,i!l their research in Barbados. When Iris and Polly return from Barbados in the Spring they will have the task of writing their theses with their completed research. This is an unusual opportunity bat it also is one of the ·best ways that someone with a deep interest in a topic can broade11 their knowledge about the fopic and experience researching the topic first hand. Iris and Pilly have a large amount of work ahead of them but they feel that they can do it because of their excitement and deep interest in their work. A Union Of People? I \Yet another article on apathy\ you think; you want to skip it, to turn. the page. Don't. Please. This is not really about apathy, although to discover what it really is about, we have to talk about apathy. We are going to talk about apathy at Union. Several student organizations, mainly community oriented may be The Union College Arts Department presents Everything you've a I ways wanted to know about college stude.nts but were afraid to ... STUDENT BODIES Written & Directed by Natalie Barandes An Experimenta I Musical Play Created & Performed by College Students Special Thanks to Drome Sound PERFORMANCES: May 13, 14, 15 at the Nott Memorial Theater TICKm:Available at Carnegie Hall $2.00 student $3.00 non-student TAKE. NOTICE: Ther*' will .be a Debate TODAY between the candidates for tlte position of Student Forum President at 4:30 in Strauss lounge sponsored by Jhe Political forum. Questions may be asked of tile candidates. about to go out of existence. (Or maybe they never really existed.) These organizations are about to .fold because no one cares enough to take ~respon­ sibility for their future. People enjoy the benefits rendered by these entities ; they come to expect them; they seem to believe that the organizations are somehow self-perpetuating organisms with lives of their own, needing no outside sub- stance. Not to disillusion anyone, but they are not. Those who enjoy the benefits of these various \activities\, these hanger-on, are like leaches which expect always to have the meal at hand. But what happens to them when the organism dies of malnutrition because it is being bled without replenish- ment?\- Perhaps, bloated they will simply find another victim. Perhaps not. Let us leave that analogy there, and look at the college. I noted earlier that no one wants to take responsibiliW for the continuation of these organizations. Not only do they not want to be officers, but neither do they want to have responsibility delegated to them. They wish only to enjoy the fruits of the labor of the others and have something to put on resumes ·and ap- plications. Most students at this college don't care about community. That may be why these organizations never really did exist. A commtmity must have members with a shared purpose a common goal. If these entities existed only through the sheer will of hand- ful of people, perhaps they had best not exist at all. It may even be that it was wrong to try to form a community where there was none to form; these may be totally artificial creations constructed only to collapse. Communities, organizations may only succeed when they arise naturally. Again, the~e may have been natural com- munities which arose, and may be suffering a natural demise. I said earlier that this article is not about apathy. I think it is about sadness a sadness which I feel because of. the lack of community here. There is no communal bond among us, no Wlion exists here. All we are is a group, a mass, a herd of people each to his own goal. Our paths may cross, our endeavors may coincide, but we are not a community, we are not a Union. This is indicated not simply by the disintegration of . a few students groups, but also by the harsh divisions which separate divisions which separate disciplines. People here do not announce their majors to others in order to identify with a community, but to distinguish' tfiemselves from other groups, to set themselves apart. There is no interest in anything that does not offer the promise of material gain, somewhere for themselves. Where there is no interest, apathy can become entrenched, so throughly en- trenched that it cannot be gotten rid of without the destruction of much of the artifice which allows its con- tinuance, its fixity. This apathy is insiduous. It burrows its way under the skin and takes strong hold before the group of members is aware of it; this person will find it difficult to truly enter into any community once apathy has set in. Apathy is contagious, and this scares me. But I don't feel like writing anymore . . . An Informational Meeting for 1982-83 Washington Term 4:30, Thursday, May 20 Social Sc.iences 115 Applications wi II be available at the meeting and in the Political Science Department Office, 216 Social Sciences.

Page 6 CONCORDIENSJS, May 1.3, 1982 ~rts & Culture Coffeehouse: Mark Rust Returns Mark Rust, much to the · delight of th()se who saw his performance last spring, is returning t~ the Union College CoffeehousethisFriday night in the Cabaret Room at 8:30 p.m. The key part of Ma.rk's performance is energy. In tbe course of an evening he gives out an incredible amount! His fluency an many instruments (guitar, banje, piano, fiddle, dulcimer),. along with his refreshingly clear vocal ability create a varied and exciting evening of music. weave a beautifully lyrical love ballad. He.believes in the music and posesses the mag1c to let you believe too. His musical backgrolind has covered traditional folk, rock and roll, commercial jaiz, songwriting, classical, and aU are drawn in over a night. And after it's all over, you're left with · that. rare and pleasant feeling that you have received something very special and lovingly given! Mel Blanc, the master of cartoon character voi.ces, will speak in ·Memoria:! Chapel May 19th. He draws on. many common life e1eperiences and reflects them in songs and stories ranging from the wide-ey~d fascination of a child to the cynicism of an old bum. He'll sing of social outrage, and later, Mark's early performing was with his family. With his parents, brother and sister (musicians all), and oc- casionally his grandmother who is a fine yodeler, ne performed at concerts,. fe.stivals, cof- feehouses, and benefits. They sang Swiss yodeling songs, American and English folk songs, some of Mark's songs, and other contemporary songs the family enjoyed. \Mel Blanc at Union J Arts Workshop Since he has been on his own, Mark has clearly established himself on the folk scene in the US and in Canada. For those of you who missed his last per- formance, you're in for a-' wonderful evening of en· tertainment! By JOEY SPEAKERMAN This Wednesday evening, May 19, at 8 PM in the Memorial Chapel, Speaker Forum presents Mel Blanc, a nwnber one draw among United States' students today. Blanc has gained fame as the voice of a host of cartoon characters. Everyone's favorite character can thank Mel for giving them a voice. Some of the famous characters Blanc has brought to life include: Bugs Bunny, Barney Rubble, Sylvester the Cat, Pepe Le Pew, Porky Pig, Daffy Duck as well as the jackhammer laugh of Woody Woodpecker. Blanc's presentation will include films, slides and a roving mike in the audience. In order to see the man whose voice is heard by an estimated 100 million people throughout the world each day, buy your ticket at the box office today for only $2 with your I.D. Anyone interested in attending a reception after Blanc's speech · and .presentation can sign up in the student activities office with Mrs. Marra. FINALLY! IT . AVAILABLE AT: The Campus Store Record Town Midland Records New Interdisciplinary Liberal Learning Course Fall Term 1982 ''Images of the Sea'' Spend 10 days on the Isles of Shoals (off the coast of Maine} Philosophy: Prof. John Morris Sociology: Prof. Ilene Kaplan Biology: Prof. Barbara Boyer Biology: Prof. Margaret Schadler Civil Engineering: Prof. Paul Weiss Contact Prof. B. Boyer, Biology Office, before May 17. Applications are now being accepted for Bartenders at the Dutch Hollow Pub Apply in person between 8:30a.m.-11:30 a.m. at the Pub office by Tuesday, May 18. Interviews will be arranged. All interested persons please apply. Prior experience is helpful but not necessary. · Approximately seventy people gathered into Room 202 of the Arts Building on Sunday of Parents' Weekend for the Arts Departments' Composition and Performance Workshop. The diverse program began and ended with the same dance by three members of the Union College Dance Club, but the musicians, Sarah Carpenter,· Artemis Poulos, Valerie Gut- terman, Matt Sandler, Fred Korkosz, and Ira Baron, ac· companied th~ dancers with two different types of music. They began the performance with a rather classical~sounding piece, \Seascape en9,ing with McCoy Tyner's ja~z piece, \Three Flowers.'' The effects of musical form on dance were further analyzed in Ira's bass guitar improvisation to a modern ballet piece. Ken Appelbaum then played his own composition, \Fur Kaydean,\ on the guitar while Melissa Gruen danced the piece she had choreographed for his music. In keeping with the experimental flavor of the program, Ken sat on the floor while Melissa danced around him, in· corporating him into the dance. The remainder of the program was the performance of music written by the student composers. Ira's bass solo, \Portrait of Nikki,\ was followed by \Solitude a duet written by Valerie for guitar and flute. Next the flute duet of Arty and Sarah performed their compositions together. Arty's \Timeless\ had a melodious and smooth S<lund whereas Sarah's \Confection\ was a livelier piece~ Mike\ Skliar's \Zinder\ was a study of con- trasts between flutes, guitar, and clarninet. Finally, Melissa~s \Sheer Shell-Lee,'' the only'full-length composition on the program, was described by Professor Hilary Tann as \very difficUlt, with difficult time changes\ and therefore the perfo[\mers played it through a second time before allowing the audience to voice its approval with a strong ro1.111d of applause. Most noteworthy about the performance, Y,alerie, Arty, Sarah, and Melissa bad never composed before and it was Melissa's first try at chor·eography. The per· fonnance, arranged by Hilary Tann, was a tl~emendous sue· cess, as any member of the audience will attest. Hillel News By NORM PFLASTER New York Times' best selling author, Rabbi Harold Kushner will be speaking at Union College on Thursday, May 20. He is author of When Bad Things Happen to Good People, a book about coping with suf· fering. Harold S. Kushner is Rabbi of Temple Israel of Natick, Mass., a position he has held since 1966. He has previously written three other books and edited two more. Rabbi Kushner is a native of \ Brooklyn, New York, and a ,.--------------....:---------v graduate of Columbia f.7,n PJ~\g T,s· .. U. ·ew-n.f University. He was ordained a ~'.f:' I 1 If ~ i. fl ( I ~ Rabbi in 1960 and was awarded a doctoral degree in Bible in and with it comes the annual 1972. He has also studied at the Hebrew University Jerusalem BIOLOGY CLUB PICNIC Featuring the Always Popular ANA TOM I CAL CAKE CONTEST and FROG JUMPING CONTESt when: Friday,, May 1 4 (rain date: May 21) where: Jackson's Gardens time: 3:()0-7 :00 pm Food Wi H Be Served Ticket~are$2.0~ I:J~ . , 'S\C \ ($1.00for sen•ors & Clhlldrenl t;\Eq 11 . tJ\v Available in the box office • • and the Harvard Divinity School. Before coming to Natick, he was . an army chaplain, and associate Rabbi of Temple Israel, Great Neck, New York. He is a past President of the New England Region of the Rabbinical Assembly and of the Natick Clergy Association. He has lectured at Clark University . as a visiting professor, and currently is the editor of Con- servative Judaism magazine. He will be speaking next Thursday at 3:00p.m. in SS016. Delta Chi's Charity 1 Beer Blast' May 27th (See On the Greek Front)

e ft is c- gs of a-\ 20. suf- bi of two of a ed a in the he and the the the He and next Graham By BOB FOX Arts Editor A friend asked me recently if Graham Parker just appeared out of .. nowhere to claim the position of one o£ rock music's hottest and most significant acts.~ .(Not her words). It's really a very good question to ask. The answer is no, he didn't just appear out of nowhere. I don't know all the dates and details, but I do know that Graham has had a relatively long and consistent musical career. Fred Leinfuss knows the details, I am sure. He in- troduced me to Graham Parker. (Bob this is Graham, Graham this . . . ) Fred used to own all of Graham's albums (and I'm sure he would trade what he has left of his stereo to get his albums back), but that's a different story entirely. Graham's older albums, Howlin' Wind, The Parkerilla, Heat Treatment and Stick to Me are packed full of hard driving, direct, no-nonsense Rock. Capital R. I guess that's what Graham's OONOORDIENSIS, Ma11. 13, 198B ~rts & Culture A·nswer- music is all about: say what you want to say, use style and good solid music, and get out, no ginunicks. The boys and, no, scratch that. Me and the boyzz · went to see Graham last Friday Page 7 night. He played at the Capitol Theatre in Passaic, New Jer- sey. ·Passaic. Not the kind of place to _ go for a family vacation. The Capitol is another story. It's the best theatre I've ever seen a concert in. The aco11stics are just tremendous, better than the best stereo you can imagine, aligned perfectly t() your ears. (Trust me, the sound is very good.) had yet,\ was treated to a fine selection of songs, from the new Another Grey Area through The Up Escalator and Squeezing Out Sparks right down to HowUn' Wind and everything in between. And now, this being the end of the article, abrupt because I just can't say enough, I get to say what I thought the highlights of the evening were. Okay. All the time between when the lights went out and when they were turned back on. Also, if you see about six or seven tools walking around with matching T-$hirts, that'.s us. Bi.lly .(Rob Qu'ish) and Jason (.Adar:n S.torkel discuss the com- plexit·ies of communication with college women. The band with Graham was excellent. He used to play with The Rumour, and a couple members are with him still, including Brin,s1ey \I think I'm great but actually I'm only very good\ Schwarz. Another standout is guitarist Carlos Alomar, who has played with I>avid Bowie, but the standout that most deserves mention is the way those seven musicians,.. played together. They didn't miss a note. The audience, described by Graham as \the warmest we've Stud·ent Bodies at the Nott By IVJICHAELSHARP What happens between us and our fellow students when we do, is what is discussed and ex- plored in the play. The set of the play is sparse and versatile, consisting of an interlocking system of metal scaffolding. One must depend on the characters words and actions to locate the action. It is impossible to tell what school and consequently what city or \Frankenstein\ A Hit It has been said that the ·genius of Shakespeare lay in his ability to represent eternal-and universal aspects of mankind in common and everyday ex- perience. \Somethil;lg is rotten in the stateofDenmark,\ stated Marcellus in Act I, scene iv of \Hamlet.\ Big Deal. It was the love, intrigue, anguish, loneliness: and passion which encircled the ~·rotteness\ that had a great impact on the audience and contained the message of Shakespeare. - town, or even what part of the country the play is set. The result is that the action becomes universal. What is being dealt with is the experience of the contemporary college student, over again. While I was nodding my head in acceptance and while Nannette was crying, others were laughing, others scratching their heads and thinking, still ()thers were watching as if something else was supposed to happen in the relationships that wasn.'t happening. It was evident that the play was speaking to everyone on different levels. What I got out of it wasn't necessarily what someone else did, and vice versa. ADAPTED By BETSY MODEST Staff An . origi~al music score played live plus a spectacular setting and lighting design highlights Capital Rep's final production, \Frankenstein and completes the company's highly successful first season at The Market Theatre. Based on Mary Shelley's classic story, the dramatic adaptation is by Oakley Hall III and Kathleen Masterson. \Frankenstein\ opened May 8 and runs through May 23. Capital Rep's production of \Frankenstein\ follows a less traditional interpretation than that of numerous Hollywood versions, which tended to ac- centuate only the horrors of the Creature. The production tells much more of Shelley's entire novel in its portrayaL of a scientist who oversteps the bounds of conscience and of the Creature brought to li'fe in an alien world, desperately at- tempting to escape the torture of his solitude. In . ''Frankenstein,\ the Creature emerges as more human than his Creator: a modern Adam to his Creator's modern Prometheus. A brilliant At Union-- exercise in the macabre, written with near~hallucinatory intensity, \Frankenstein\ .is not without a large dose of special effects and stage theatrics. The scenic-lighting-costume-music design is Capital Rep's most ainbitious to date, utilizing a complex series of platforms, ladders, and technology. Peter H. Clough is directing \Frankenstein\ along with Bruce Bouchard. Clough fs producing director of the repertory company. A veteran cqrector, Clough has staged four productions for this theatre company as well as ad- ministering the new play development program. He has also directed over 50 produc- tions throughout the United States. The case, famed both lo'cally and in New York City, is highly talented. Performances of 'cFrankenstein\ are at 8 p.m. Tuesdays through Saturdays, and 2:30p.m. Sundays, May 8- Z2. Tickets which range from $5 t<J $11, depending on per- f<>rmance and seating, are available at the Community Box: Office, at The Market Theatre, 111 North Pearl Street, Albany, or. by calling 462-4534. Student, senior citizen and group discounts are available. ''Moonchild'~ Chris Carlson was travelling, alone. And because he was alone, he was approached by members of the Unification Church. And like hundreds of young people each year, Carlson joined. What seperates Carlson from other Moonies is that he left the cult. The movie, \Moonchild is based on Carlson'·s experiences, and provides a unique and com- pelling authentic sto~y, by openly unmaking the systematic conversion process used by the Unification Church. The film, with some ex-moonies in major rol~s. depicts the subtle and overt pressures :inl.posed on unwitting recruits, as questioning turns into compliance in the • form of Carlson recruiting others· bimself. The fihn also shows -what deprogramming is really like. The fihn is so realistic, says Barbara Underwqod Sharf, co-author of Hostage to Heaven, as to be \chilling.\ \Moonchild\ will be shown at 8:00 p.m. tonight in SS016. Following the filn'ling will be a talk by Chris Carlson, who is being sponsored by the Speakers Forum. Admission is free~ In the program of \Student Bodies\ it is written that \Student Bodies ... attempts to portray college attitudes, relationships, and activities.\ It is obvious to any Union student , that what happens on stage during the play happens in the dorms, fraternity houses, Pub, and Skellar on campus. But there's more to it than that. There's mind versus body, female versus male, maturity versus immaturity, _thought versus action, security versus insecurity, logic versus im- pulse, and countless other universal issues raised. What gets the audience worked up is that none of the issues are resolved. It is up to the audience to resolve individually the conflicting forces as they feel they should be. One receives an orientation name tag upon entering the theatre. Immediately, you are an observant freshman. What you can anticipate is the academics - the class, the library, and the course requirements (little is said of these during the play). What you can't anticipate is the social interactions of the students. No one is really quite sure how they will relate to others when they are shoved out from under the wings of their parents. At college, nobody watches to see what time you go to bed or who you go to bed with. It takes very little time for us to realiZe this. . not just the lives of Union students~ The characters are almost anyone you might see on campus. The cast includes Jason, the love-god (Adam Storke); Billy, the jock (Rob Quish); Carrie, the perennial partier (Natalie Barandes); Jennifer, the good girl who is occasionally bad (Elizabeth Baker) ; Victor, the shy in- tellectual (Ira· Baron); Lucy, the self-conscious pizza eater {Demetra Pontisakos). Their relationships with each other are complicated. Peer pressure seems to be a major motivating force for any of their actions. Whatever love that might be felt fizzles out by the end of the play. Jason and Jennifer have a sex;ual (and somewhat acrobatic) relationship. Jen- nifer doesn't know why it happens and Jason wishes he knew how to communicate with her other than with his body. Billy and· Carrie are on the verge of involvement when their relationship falls through. Victor and Lucy are too shy to get past initial hellos. How did the audience react to all this jaded love? I've spent four years at Union and those type of love relationships happen all the time. My reac- tion was to nod my head and accept it. Nannette, a sophomore who saw the play with me wanted to cry. \That's so sad\ she exclaimed, over and The key to one's un- derstanding of the play is how many years one bas spent in college. If you are a freshman, you'd probably be sad. Your reaction might be, \is this going to happen to me?\ As a senior you'd probably say, \yes this sort of stuff happens, what's a person to do?\ Of course there are those somewhere in bet- ween who laugh at the relationships going on at Union and will continue to do so as they watch the play. And then there. are those who will never figure out love, and the relationships in the play will continue to baffle them. We see Lucy's confusion and frustration over her failure to establish a relationship with Victor when she eats a whole pizza (washed down with tab, naturally). We ~ee Jason's physicality with his constant pratter about girls, drugs, and sex. Do Billy and Carrie really want to party hearty? Why the hell doesn't Victor say something to Lucy? In \Student Bodies\ a statement' is being made about the emotions, preoccupations, and actions of today's college student. Whatever your reac- tion might be, and it'll certainly be different than the -person sitting next to you, there's plenty of action, energy, and even sadness to entertain you for the evening. G(} see ''Student Bodies\ at the Nott. At the least, it'll make y<Ju think. HAVE FUN IN THE SUN! SOc an hour. In front of the Library from 12 pm-4 pm

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, May 13, 1982 ~ditarials Letters COillllle~tary Election Plea T'his Friday, f\tudent government elections will take place from the hours of 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in front of ( 'arnegie Hall. It is time .for those armchair pO'l itieians to get off their bottoms and vote instead of t·omplaining. Everyone criticizes how affairs are run l>y Student ~orum .'members, but how many will do something about H m a positive sense? Friday's dections present a painless way to affect change. Take adva.I:ltage of it' lf you do vote, consider not the candidate's smile nor his or her athletic capabilities. Head their ~tatements and qyestion their objectives and qualifications. When you meet a candidate in the Skellar, attempt to nail them to a wall on pertinent issues and stances. Foremost. attempt to select a person who best .can accomplish the job, not j~;~st occupy the position. Last but not least, once the new members are dected, keep reminding them that they represent your interests. If anyone has a gripe about the way something is run. step forward out of the ranks of complacency and attend a Forum meeting. AU can speak and attend. Do not return to your comfy arm· chair. sit back and criticize the Student Forum if you are not willing to make an effort to improve it. Club Dark • Ill At this week's Forum meeting, it came to our at· tention that the Photo Club's darkroom facilities would be eliminated as a result of the summer renovations in SiUirnan Hall. It seems strange that the club's officers were not notified of the planned renovations earlier. It also seems strange that the College would allow the construction of such elaborate darkroom .facilities, recently finished after months of work, if it was planning all along to renovate the space. Plans such as these are not completed overnight. Obviously. this was a gross oversight on someone 's part, but the brunt of the responsibility must now fall on the ninety-member club. The club must clear out of Silliman Hall by June 1st as per a memorandum from Acting Dean Donald Spring and Vice-President for Finance and Administration John Hauser. They must abandon relatively new facilities built by their own hands with nowhere to go. And no one is willing to lend a hand to aid this budding activity. It appeared from testimony at the Forum meeting that both Spring and Hauser had washed their hands of the matter. When the Forum was approached, it was no shining light of salvation. The club's officers were told to look around for suitable facilities. This may help solve the problem for next year, providing that the Forum gives the club funds to build a new facility over the summer, but what of the present dilemma? Who has the time to disassemble an entire darkroom and transfer its contents to an un· determined location before June 1st. The club needs assistance and it should come frow the administration. It was the administration's oversight in the first place. The Forum could always· lend a hand when It has a free moment. But what upsets us most, is the squandering of money and manpower to build a new facility only to be destroyed when complete. With fiscal policies so tight already, this obvious waste is unnecessary. We are in favor of having a fully equipped Photo Club darkroom which will be used not only for members, but activities like newspapers, yearbooks, and Freshman Records. But, who approved construction without looking at long range planning? ~..r.r..r.rJ.rJ..;::;r.rJ..r/.r.r.r.r.r..r.r.J\'/J\'..r.rJ..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r.rJ\.rJ..rJ\'.r..r.rJO \'\It is tilne for a new ~eneration of leadership\~ to ~Cope with new problems and new opportunities ... .,~ I II!IU' Letters. ll An Audacious Student To the Editor: College kids have been known to do anything for a buck. from gardening to selling magazine subscriptions. After all; people sympathize with those trying to \work their wary through college/' and . very <lften are easy pr~y for student. schemes. Sometim.es, honesty ~~- for- saken, as was the case with one ·stu~ent this past school year. _ applications for summer help. To this date, this Unicn College stud~n,t has not ~n officially reprimanded or. brought before the Conduct Committee. But, even more ridicUlous, he is not paying even one penny for his tuition: It is really a shame that such an excellent program as AOP can be made to look so bad because of one bad apple. As long as we seem to be punishing those who have done demonstratively goCJd things for Union~ there is no reason why those who have not should be scot .. fNe. 10 Concerned Students · Forum Actions Criticized To the Editor: After reading William Lloyd's and Peter McCaffrey's letters in last week's Coneordiemis, I and Val Lenes had misap- propriated . coromittee funds, and· out of a sense of com· mitment to the st11dent body investigated and confirmed their suspicions. This in- vestigation was carried out with the knowledge and permission of the Student Activities Office, and not illegally, as the term \Watergate Plumbers, im· plies. If a Watergate ana~ogy is to be drawn, then Ross and Seavey correspond more to Woodward and Bernstein than to tbe plumbers. Lloyd•s letter sland,ers the two $tudents, likening them to a ruthless ldller,.-Idi Amin, for doing what few. students would ·have the courage ami determination to da. · ,ln Vicf:vPresident of Finance Pete McCaffr~y~s ·letter~ b~ criticizes tb.l(Studeut· Forum as being Hbloodtbirstyu :Jn their: -- desire to have justice served. 'fhis enterprising UrHon stadent opened a stereo repair business claiming to be an \experienced Hcen,'!,dr: technician,. although he was neither professionallY ex- perienced nor held anything- higher than a DJ or driyei;''S ~cense. This same per&Oh alSo 1ted to both the Electrical Eagineering department and WRUC, claiming that he held an FCC 2nd class b_roadcasting license. On the basis of this and otMr fraudulent statements, he was even hired by each for summer work. At WRUC, even though he was told he was getting the minimum w.age, he filled his time sheets (}Ut for six dollars an hour claiming to be skilled labor - but was caught. Needless to say, it became -obvious he was n()t at all .. am incredtllous that tWQ in- fluential Student Forum. members could be responsible for such absurdities. He writes that they Hhave already paid retribution for their mistakes. fl This retr\bution- took the form of returning the inoney they stole,. and resigning under pressure after they were caught. Mccaffrey claims the issue \had been resolved.\ This is tantamount to a bankrobber being forgiven after he was caught. simply because be returned the money he stole. Students' money was misap- propriated and justice must be served in the Conduct Com- mittee. lt may be easier to un- derstand why these two Forum members we so anxious to forgive Matt and Val when you realize that Pete McCaffrey is a friend, and Will Lloyd a roommate, of Matt Cot-en. McCaffrey wapted to send Jeff Mitchell to tbe .. C()nduct Com .. m.ittee · for very similar cir- qualified to install an amplifier let alone repair a computer, and thus he was fired \due to in- competence\ from both. Later in the year, this Union student had the audacity to campaign for General Manager and Technical Manager of WRUC based on his previous experience. To this end. he not only called DJs, but \rent door to door making speeches. He l{}st both elections by a landslide {approximately 42:1 each). Not satisfied he had no sup- port, he filed a complaint with the Student Fon.un that the ele~tions were un(air, and started, in effect. campaigriing again. He formed \the con- cerned members boardt of which he was the only member~ and mass-mailed notices urging DJs to disregard certain station policies that did n()t favor his interests. He even went so far as to defaee the DJ sign-up schedule, because \Mrs. Marra said it was OK.\ As llSual, this statement proved to be a Ue, and as expected, the Student Forum ruled that tile elections were fair. Still not satisfied~ he decided oo file conduct charges on . WRUC, while telling DJs that the Executive Board. was \full '>f Jews\ and that was why they did not want him nn it. Once · similar racist quotes, such as \this would be a good nigger beater/~ were attributed to this same person) it became obvio11s that he was \irrational\ and thus should simply be ign()red. Not wishing to be igni'Jrtd, he has filed furtffer cooduct charges against members af WRUC and the Student: Forum. In addition, · -he· hag:,, · ·. ted ·himself to work at c wer the SUtnw ni~l' ana~ tbilSt bas been mking Senior Trustee Will Lloyd, in his letter, compares David &ss and Darryl Seavey to \the Watergate Plumbers\ and \ldi Amin.'' These two students and Concert Committee members, suspected that Concert Com- mittee members Matt Cohen Acting Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor Assistant News Editors Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors A..J. Brodsky, Dianne Pavacic Julianne Abebnan Marcy Burstiner, Doug Landon Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards Copy Editor D.C. Owen.s National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner Women'sSports Editor Kathy Bentley Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Rick Sapir Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Walle11 Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher Cartoonist David Neiblum Staff Joey Beckerman, Norman Birnbach, Thomas Ching, Paul Choquette, Jodi c;ohen, Tim Emswiler, David Fitzgerald, Donna Getson, P.S. Girsdansky, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Debra Moses, Jennifer Paston, Gayle Rosenfeld. Eric Ruben, Martin Sands, Franklin Schneider, MichaelSharp, Linda Sher, Jared Squires, Judie Steinhardt, E. Vadim, Steve Verp, Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne, Robert T. Weisenbw-g Subscriptions E; Wesley Harris III, Chris Eshelman Photo Staff Keith Dean, Janet Guiliano. Mary Martin, Pam Meyers, Norman Pflaster, Lisa Stern CONCORDIENSIS is. published every Thursday by the stud~qt · body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New Y~ 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna PubUcatlons, Inc., Bo'X' 388, Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United SUtes. CONC'Ofl.DIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). . i .. : i ' \l tl l i .I ' ·~ l n :I 'I i 'I I I I i l \ ' l i 1 II I I C1 i~ Vl ~ y r: I v 11 a c 8 f ~ c ~ ~ 11 '1 a d 0 t t r \ t ~ f f i E 1 f

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, May 13, 1982 Edit(1rials Letters Election Plea This Friday, :otudent government elections will take place from the hours of 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in front of ( 'arnegie Hall. It is time for those armchair politicians to get off their bottoms and vote instead of ··omplaining Everyone C'ritlrizes how affairs are run lly Student Forum members, but how many will do ,.;omdhing about it in a positive sense? Friday's ··lectwns present a painless way to affect change. Take advantage of it' If you cto vote. consider not the candidate's smile nor his or her athletic capabilities. Read their ;-;tatements and question their objectives and qualifications. When you meet a candidate in the :-ikellar, attempt to nail them to a wall on pertinent 1ssues and stances. Foremost, attempt to select a 1wrson who best can accomplish the job, not just occupy the position. Last but not least, once the new members are dected, keep reminding them that they represent your interests. If anyone has a gripe about the way something is run, step forward out of the ranks of complacency and attend a Forum meeting. All can ~peak and attend. Do not return to your comfy arm- chair, sit back and criticize the Student Forum if you are not willing to make an effort to improve it. Club Dark • Ill At this week's Forum meeting. it came to our at- tention that the Photo Club's darkroom facilities would be eliminated as a result of the summer renovations in Silliman Hall. It seems strange that the club's officers were not notified of the planned renovations earlier. It also seems strange that the College would allow the construction of such elaborate darkroom facilities, recently finished after months of work, if it was planning all along to renovate the space. Plans such as these are not completed overnight. Obviously. this was a gross oversight on someone's part, but the brunt of the responsibility must now fall on the ninety-member club. The club must clear out of Silliman Hall by June 1st as per a memorandum from Acting Dean Donald Spring and Vice-President for Finance and Administration John Hauser. They must abandon relatively new facilities built by their own hands with nowhere to go. And no one is willing to lend a hand to aid this budding activity. It appeared from testimony at the Forum meeting that both Spring and Hauser had washed their hands of the matter. When the Forum was approached, it was no shining light of salvation. The club's officers were told to look around for suitable facilities. This may help solve the problem for next year, providing that the Forum gives the club funds to build a new facility over the summer, but what of the present dilemma? Who has the time to disassemble an entire darkroom and transfer its contents to an un- determined location before June 1st. The club needs assistance and it should come from the administration. It was the administration's oversight in the first place. The Forum could always lend a hand when it has a free moment. But what upsets us most, is the squandering of money and manpower to build a new facility only to be destroyed when complete. With fiscal policies so tight already, this obvious waste is unnecessary. We are in favor of having a fully equipped Photo Club darkroom which will be used not only for members, but activities like newspapers. yearbooks, and Freshman Records. But, who approved construction without looking at long range planning? er.r...r.r..r.r....r.;\\J.rJ..r.r.r.r..r.r..r..r..r..r..r.rJJ\.r..r.r...r.r.r.r....r..r..r.r..r.r..r.r..r./'..r..r..oo \\It i!-i tinu~ for a new ~eneration of leadership., to eope with new problen1s and new opportunities ... \ John J/. Kenned.r ,.,.,..,. Letters .~r An Audacious Student To the Editor: College kids have been known to do anything for a buck, from gardening to selling magazine subscriptions. After all; people sympathize with those trying to ·'work their way through college,\ and very often are easy prey for student schemes. Sometimes, honesty is for~ s.aken, as was the case with one stuctent this past school year. This enterprising Union student opened a stereo repair business claiming to be an ''experienced, licensed.- technician\ although he was neither professionally ex- perienced nor held anything higher than a DJ or driver•s license. This same person also 'lied to both the Electrical Engineering department and WRUC, claiming that he held an FCC 2nd class broadcasting license. On the basis of this and other fraudulent statements, he was even hired by each for surruner work. At WRUC, even though he was told he was getting the minimum wage, he filled his time sheets out for six dollars an hour claiming to be · skilled labor- but was caught. Needless to say, it became obvious he was not at all qualified to install an amplifier let alone repair a computer, and thus he was fired \due to inc competence\ from both. Later in the year, this Union student had the audacity to campaign for General Manager and Technical Manager of WRUC based on his previous experience. To this end, he not only called DJs, but went door to door making speeches. He lost both elections by a landslide (approximately 42-7 each). Not satisfied he had no sup- port, he filed a complaint with the Student Forum that the · elections were unfair, and · started, in effect, campaigning . again. He formed \the con· cerned members board,\ of which he was the only member, and mass·mailed notices urging DJs to disregard certain station polici¢s that did not favor his interests. He even went so far as to deface the DJ sign-up schedule, because \Mrs. Marra said it was OK. u As usual, this statement proved to be a Ue, and as eli>ected, the Student Forum ruled that the elections were fair. Still not satisfied, he decided · to file conduct charges on · WRUC, while telling DJs that the Executive Board was \full applications for surruner help. To this date, this Union College student has not been officially reprimanded or brought before the Conduct Committee. But, even more ridiculous, he is not paying even one penny f()r his tuition. It is really a shame that such an excellent program as AOP can be made to look so bad because of one bad apple. As long as we seem to be punishing those who have done demonstratively good things fo.r Union, there is no reason why th<>se who have not should be scot-free. 10 Concerned Students Forum Actions Criticized To the Editor: After reading William Lloyd's and Peter McCaffrey's letters in last week's Concordiensis, I am incredulous that two in- fluential Student Forum members could be responsible for such absurdities. Senior Trustee Will Lloyd, in his letter. compares David Ross and Darryl Seavey to \the Watergate Plumbers\ and \ldi Amin.'' These two students and Concert Committee members, suspected that Concert Com- mittee members Matt Coben Acting Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor Assistant News Editors Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors and Val Lenes had misap-- propriated committee funds, and out of a sense of com- mitment to the student body investigated and confirmed their suspicions. This in- vestigation was carried out with the knowledge and permission of the Student Activities Office, and not illegally, as the term ''Watergate Plumbers\ im· plies. If a Watergate analogy is to be drawn, then Ross and Seavey cQrJ\espond more to Woodward and Bernstein tban to the plumbers. Lloyd's letter slanders the two studentst likening them to a ruthless killer, Idi Amin, for doing what few students would have the courag~ and determination to do. · In Vice President of Finance Pete McCaffrey's letter; he criticizes the \Student Forum as being ''bl<lodthirsty\ .J.n their desire to have justice served. He writes that they Hhave already paid retribution for their mistakes.\ This retribution took the form of returning the money they stole, and resigning under pressure after they were caught. McCaffrey claims the issue \had been resolved., This is tantamoUilt to a bankrobber being forgiven after he was caught, simply because he returned the money be stole. Students' money was misap- propriated and justice must be served in the Conduct Com- mittee. It may be easier to un· derstand why these two Forum members ·are so anxious to forgive Matt and Val when you realize that Pete McCaffrey is a friend, and Will Lloyd a roommate, of Matt Coben. McCaffrey wanted to send Jeff Mitchell to the Conduct Com- mittee for very similar cir- A.J. Br()dsky. Dianne Pavacic Julianne Abelman Marcy Burstiner, Doug Landon Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards Copy Editor D.C. Owens National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner Women's Sports Editor Kathy Bentley Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Rick Sapir Photo Editors Jane Cavf:llier, Linda Wallen Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher Cartoonist David Neiblmn Staff Joey Beckerman, Norman Birnbach, ThomasChing, '){ Jews\ and that was why they did not want him on it. Once similar racist quotes, such as \this would be a good nigger beater,\ were attributed . · to this same person, . it became obvious that he was \irrational'' and thus should simply be ignored. Not wishing to be ignored,. he has filed further conduct charges against members Gf WRUC and the Student Forum. In addition, he has appointed himself to work at WRUC over the smnw mer and, thus, bas been taking ' Paul Choquette, Jodi Gohen, Tim Emswiler, David Fitzgerald, Donna Getson, P .S. Girsdansky, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Debra Moses, Jennifer Paston, Gayle Rosenfeld, Eric Ruben, Martin Sands, Franklin Schneider, Michael Sharp, Linda Sher, Jared Squires, Judie Steinhardt, E _ Vadim, Steve Verp, Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne, Robert T. Weisenburg Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris III, Chris Eshelman Photo Staff Keith Dean, Janet Guiliano, Mary Martin, Pam Meyers, Norman Pflaster, Lisa Stern CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the- stud_eqt body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New Yo.t~ 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Bo'x: 388, Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United ~es. CONCOROIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). I . ' ' :I ,. I C\ is D v h a c ·S< e p c ·a s b 'T a d 0 h tl r v tl s s . f: i: e 1 f (] c t v J . c ~ r I . I 1 t i t . 1 • l ..

), l! j I! i j i l ·i ! , I l I I l \ ' 1 i l 'I 1 CONOORDIENSIS, May 1~, 1982 Page 9 Letters Editorials ' ·. ....... ~ , Letters~~ 1111 • ' curnstances, but Jeff Mitchell tsn•t a friend. Perhaps it is fortunate that William Lloyd and Peter McCaffrey are seniGrs, so next year the Student Forum will be rid of their biased influence. colortw metaphor leaped to my Another Re. buke mind as I read the writings of Senior.Trustee William I.J.oyd in last· week's Cotul~rdlensl$. · A day or two before the letter To the Editors: appeared, I had heard that some sort (}f correspondence The letter'of Will lloyd which from Mr. Lloyd was to be appeared in the May 6 Con- Sincerely, published. Not knowing Mr. eordleusls requires some Andrew &sen lJ.oyd personally. but assuming comment. Mr. Lloyd implies him to be a rational and an that M:r. Seavey and Mr. Ross intelligent -person, I was eager committed some illegal or to see what the nature of his immoral act in uncovering the Morris Vetoes argwnents would be. But. alas! crime of the Concert Committee If. as Emerson suggested - chairpersons. They merely Display Case \nature always wears the ~lo-r looked at the records of the of the spirit,\ then my innoeent committee as any Union College assumptions pertaining to the student who pays a student spirit of Mr. I.Joyd proved tc be · activtties fee is allowed, and Action ·false. ' · \ encol!faged. to du· Thus~ Mr. Mr. Lloyd state{\ that two Lloyd 1 s tts-e .of the analogy of students \played the Watergate \Watergate plumbers'' is at Plumbe-rs,\ and also suggeste-d least totally false. if not· Dear U~ion Comminity: · tbat their actions were Jrresponsible. Last .week President Morris motivated by their oWll per~ · ·Next~ I find it.bard tQ believe vetoed $1 pi'QPOSal .w~eb would 1 •• t · H· ,...,.A that '!ill'- U.n.v:-1 «,.... •• u r~~~e-r to haVe Qllowe4 stUdentS to haVe SOOa power rtps. J.nuSe ,; •• -· . J.J.U. ., .. u nvmY \W . ace~ ttS the library display within the college· community ·\\.two $tltde~ts w~o revealed a· cases i'ri , order to show who haven() knowledge of the · __ · Cf:irtt$1: and requested that their events to wbieh Mr. Lloyd was ~s ruJt, be ..revealed as on a :rift~:mg c:~:!:tt';~ to r:i: ~ferrding rnightllin··_ ~~~true,tmth:o. int l!f; u~wel ~,trip~\ N~hrEA of the~ P roposal w•\uld have created a oy waste g ~.IK'. ·.. · n~.s gQufl erpep revea · t,..U<;< eorrup \ condemnation of their actions - actions ()f the Concert Com· committee of students, faculty when in fact. Mr. UQyd was mittee chairpersons in order to and library personnel to review lying. receive personal benefit, rather prospective 'displays and to Ta understand how Mr.. Lloyd Jt . was an action taken in the decide when and if they should was lying tbe facts of the matter better interests of the whole be allowed to put up the display· should be made clear. The college community. The result of the veto is to fJ.Qt Watergatct Plumbers used Th.e last problem with Mr. allow students to have any illegal means in an attempt to Lloyd's letter is one of displays in the library. uncov~r alleged evidence of moti:vatlon. What motivated When my father was visiting . illegal activities. The students Mr. lloyd to harass two other over Parents; Weekend I told M u d d in h' 'I It · him about the controvet•su over who-se good names r. · oy stu ents t 18 manner· 1S \ has seen fit to qnmercifully obvious that Mr. Lloyd's per~ the library display cases. His drag through the mud, simply sonal feelings moved him to response was .quite simple and examined the records of the reveal tile names of Mr. Ross verjr poignant: \God forbid that Concert Commitl;ee and fouad and Mr. Seavey) but the manner the display cases be used by the evidence of illegal activities. in which this was accomplished students - after all who's this Their mea.ns were illegal? is malicious and tile only visible ~:b::;s ~:~~u;;d~~~~ :~ WRONG!! Any stud~nt who goal of this action is sheer issue head on. This institution pays a stud~nt activity fee has a harassment. Harassing another right to examine the files of the student is an irresponsible act exists to educate the students. student organizations who for any member of our college As far as I am concerned, benefit from the fee, as long as community, but it is especially faculty do not have a morwpoly the files are neither tampered reprehensible when the act is on that process. Students can with, nD:r remuved, from the cemmitted by an elected of- contribute to the education of Student Activities Office. But ficial. Mainly, l feel sorry for the campus community, the~ two were not just any Mr. S~vey and Mr. Ross whether it be through an students - they were members because Mr.~- lloyd is an ·in- Amnesty International poster of the C~nce:rt Committee fittential member of the college display wltb descriptions nf without whose help Don community and m;my students some ot the world's human McClean~s: speaker~ta'Cksfrmn who'areles~tban,well~ormed rights violations, or BLAS last October wollld probably on this topte will believe Mr. putting up a display com- stm be in Memorial Chapel! Lloyd because of his position in memorating Martin ·Luther As to the oomment made studentgoverf!Illent. I hope that King on the week of his bir-- . about their actions being caused this letter will dispel anyone's thday. . . . by a \p<rwer trip\- I d'l.allenge ideas that Mr •. Rriss and Mr. One . of the ~tsappof:ntmg anyone tt> actually _ take . that Seavey acted ill~Mly. Also,. I aspeets of Morr1s' · deciston is· ~ accusation seriously. lJotb bf}pe f;hat th-e -membets tJf' tms that the student Forum over-- stndents realized that their c<»Reg.e eommuniiy will be glad whelm.ingly . .approved the actions would not produce. any that Mr. Seavey and. Mr. Ros~r pr. l of setting up a com- new friends - especially those acted as they did, and thus rru • The Student Affairs close to the Concert Committee lessen tbe1lamage wrought by Council did the same. At the ex-Co~chairmen. Their unly Mr. ·Lloyd's false and very least, th~ students deserve motive was to e:x:.pose irresponsible statem~:mts as an explanatto.n of why the misconduct in reaffirming their much as possible. president vm;oed ~he prop.osal pledge \to support and uphold . Sincerely, Brian Pattmm Classof'84 - Senior· - Concerned Th~ decisiOn ?f PreSident .. dignity and pride in • . . the Morr~ 'Will ~t tn ~h~ stifling college.\ (ACADEMIC CON- of student. creat1v1ty and DUCT CODE). Mr. Lloyd educ~ti~F· First and foremost,_ I continued bis attack by likening would lilt& him ~o reconsider hiS these students; behavior to that, decision. B:t1t if he refuses to not of college students, but of yiel!i>· a J~roup of studti!nts have ~'descendants of Idi Anlin.\ decided· to run a petition drive What they did, did not deserve (~oth stud~nts _ and facult;v the impudent statements uf Mr. signatures~ 1.le sought). So 1f Lloyd. They acted in tlte in· you see a booth set up in Car· terest of the college; they acted To the Editors: negie asking , for signatures, like college students. please stop and. sign a petition. I hope, in sincerest humility. With enough support; maybe we that the campus community can change the current policy. will join with me in demanding that . Mr. Ll<Jyd publicly DavidStern t82 apologize to the two stttdents whom he has attacked and Letter Rebuked To the Editors: insulted - for· in his unfotmded insinuations~ Mr. lJ()yd hu only succeeded in attacking and insulting every, honest member of this college who seeks to actively support and uphold the ideals upon wbieb this oollege was founded and eontinues to stand for. ~spectfully William Unteroom ~at · As~ a concerned Union College senior I do not feel tbat the issue of over $200 in record albums being \misappropriated. into the hands of the two co- chairpeople of the Concert Committee should be con- sidered either \ .resolved or forgotten. ~e pe . feel that dismtssal from t · r)ositions and the return of the stolen funds is fait tetributiQtl' for the crline · ·committed. 1'he fad remains, howmr _;,that as a . . ... . t student· . WH;o pa If a Student A~iv1ti~t~~~,l:\a.,~~t:_·_~ .. ned u . . . . ••.•. \~;'~ Ou. I f~el ·that the Concert Committee's reaction to the crime was appropriate, but a charge of this nature should not be brushed under the carpet. The Student Forum was per- fectly in order recommending that the two be brought up on conduct charges. I am not in- terested· in \blood thirsty\ attitudes or sensationalism. I am just worried about tbe future of Union. If these two are to get off with a slap on the hand it would lead to a recurrence of similar \white collar\ crimes. Behavior of this kind should not be tolerated if Union is going to continue to exist as an llooorable institution. Sincerely, Scott Comstock Corruption Charged A good friend of mine. ~o is now a senior. was telling me how her best friend freshman year was expelled for writing a paper that used the references of a girl who took the course the year before. The girl didn •t copy the paper, she only used the · other student's references. .:Webster's defines plagarism as roughly as using anotherts ideas without their permission. For this, a young girt had her career at Unicm wrecked. At WRUC on the other hand, certain members of· the board have overwhelming evidence- against them that they used funds illegally. Furthermore it is clear that they covered up the incidents by refusing to show program logs as well as con- tinue to laugh at federal regs. that they, holding their highly valuable Restricted Radio Telephcme Operator Permits are required to follow. The Furum for reasons unknown has barely scratched the surface of the layers of dwaymg ·bio·mass that now oovers eaeh and every innocent member (D.J. 's and other- wi~), of WRUC. '!lie board from last year has already been fotmd by the finance committee in· v~stigat,tng t-<Phave . done the actions in question. The F.orwn still refuses to, act. Also. the Forum will not even look at the program logs. of last month, let alone last SlU'Dlner, that along With Jeff Mitchell's admission of taking money from WRUC that was supposed to be paid by the s.cllool to a part-time em- ployee will illuminate the atrocities. · Another problem. at this point, is that the Forum may not even ~llow a person who bas not been found to have done anything wrong except make. political statements against those 'tru.nningH WRUC, run for \ office at the station. Someone should not l,?e persecuted for saying that he or she believes that the habit of those in power be removed from her college for what may b.ave been be:r firSt and only offense, the cases against people involved in of- fenses which are not only rules of the college but of· our society as well should be fully beard by the .Forum, and if it is deter~ mined that they did in fact commit the offenses they are charged of, not be allowed to harass and disrupt thGSe who want WRUC nm in a way that won't leave the station open to financial corruption and since the F.C.C. will probably inspect the station due to the request for a power increase, probably license revocation. Josh Lowry Composite lost In reiteration of what has unfortunately become a frequent complaint, I am writing this letter as a plea in hopes of re--acquiring one of Sigma Delta Tau's composities. Our first and original composite was found to be missing from the Chapter House on the weekend of 4-24:. We are planning our first Founder's Weekend in two weeks In celebration of our five year anniversary at Union CoDege and it would be very much appreciated if the com- posite, containing the pictures of our founding sisters, was on the wall to greet them. On a note of reflection, I would like to point out that college, especially in these times of skyrocketing costs, should be enjoyed to the fullest. I am defmitely in favor of · having fun and enjoying oneself. However, when property is destroyed, and the rights of fellow students are no longer respected, some of the meaning goes out of Hhaving a good tim~tlJ This letter has been written in a desperate attempt to regain our composite. Any in~ formation regarding its whereabouts W()uld be greatly , appreciated. Thank yoU; Linda Wallen Sister of Sigma Delta Tau ' Debate Announced To the campus community: . needing student funds to can their mothers, brothers and girls friends should be broken. If one doubts these accusatio-ns, cheek with Pete MaeCaffrey of the Finance Committee. If doubts still exist, listen to the tapes of the Finance Committee audit. The last election was announced only to those who did not oppose the corruRtion. Hopefully .the F.orumwon t watt u11til three hours before the next ~ection to atUiounce eligibility , to- those same people. If an incoming ft~an can As many .of you are aware, elections will be held this Friday for Student Forum of~ fiees for next year. The position of Student Forum President is extremely influential in policy decisions. Too often, people are uninformed or unaware of a candidate's feelings on the issues tllat .are presently before the Forum and its eonunittees. Therefore, the Political Forum has invited the candidates for the position of Student Forum President to participate in an open debate. The debate will take place today at 4:31) p.m. in Strauss Ll>unge. It is important that you attend this debate so that your ~ote is not one of ignorance but one of awareness .. Thank you, Peter Schl.essel Cbairtnan of Political Forum

I ·< : . ~· ! ij rj I l, . cwnstances, but Jeff Mitchell isn't a friend. Perhaps it is fortunate that William Lloyd and Peter McCaffrey are seniors, so next year the Student Forum will be rid of their biased influenee. Sincerely, Andrew Rosen Morris Vetoes Display Case Action Dear Union Comminity: Last week President Morris vetoed a proposal which would have allowed students to have access to the library display cases in . order to show · something of interest to the entire community. This proposal would have created a committee of students, faculty · and library personnel to review . prospective 'displays and to decide when and if they should be allowed to put up the display. The result of the veto is to nQ! allow students to have any displays in the library. When my father was visiting over Parents' Weekend I told him about the controversy over the library display cases. His response was quite simple and very poignant: ''God forbid that the display cases be used by the students - after all who's this · school being run for.\ My . father's sarcasm addresses the issue head on. This institution exists to educate the students. · As far as r am concerned, faculty do not have a monopoly on that process. Students can contribute to the education of the campus community, whether it be through an Amnesty International poster display with descriptions of some of the world's human · rights violations, or BLAS putting up a display com- . mem()rating Martin Luther King on the week of his bir- thday. . One of the disappointing aspects of Morris' decision is · that the Student .Forwn over- . whelmingly approved the proposal of setting up a com- mittee. The Student Affairs · Council did the same. At the very least, the students deserve an explanation of why the president vetoed the proposal. The decision of President Mot'ris will result in the stifling of student creativity and education. First and foremost, I would like him to reconsider his decision. But · if be refuses to yield) a group of students have decided to run a petition drive (both students and faculty signatures will be sought).. So if you see a booth set up in car- negie asking for signatures, please stop and sign a .petition. With enough support, maybe we can change the current policy. David Stem '82 letter Rebuked To the Editors: An English professor of mine once suggested that some people view the writings of Freud as a \crock of shit.\ This CONOORDIENSIS, May 1~, 1982 Page 9 Letters Editorials ---· ·Letters ..... , colorful metaphor leaped to my mind as I read the writings of Senior Trustee William Uoyd in last week's Coneordlensis. A day or two before the letter appeared, I had beard that some sort of correspondence from Mr. Uoyd was to be published. Not knowing Mr. lloyd personally, but assuming him to be a rational and an intelligent -person, I was eager to see what the nature of his argwnents would be. But. alas! If, as Emerson suggested - \nature always wears the color of the spirit,\ then my inn(lcent asswnptions pertaining to the spirit of Mr. lloyd proved to be false. · Mr. Lloyd stated that two students Hplayed the Watergate Plumbers,' 1 and also suggested that their actions were motivated by their own per~ sonal \power trips.\ 'l'h()Se within the college community who have no knowledge of the events to which Mr. lJoyd was referring might believe that .Mr. Lloyd was telling the truth in his condemnation of their actions- when in fact, Mr. Lloyd was lying . To understand how Mr. Lloyd was lying the faets of the matter should be made clear. The Watergate Plumbers used illegal means in an attempt to uncover alleged evidence of illegal aetivities. The students whose good names Mr. lloyd has seen fit to unmercifully drag through the mud, simply examined the records of the Concert Committee and found evidence of illegal activities. Their mea-ns were illegal? WRONG!! Any student who pays a student activity fee has a right to examine the files of the student organizations who benefit from the fee, as long as the files are neither tampered with., nor removed from the Student Activities Office. But these two were not just MY students - they were members of the Concert Committee without whose help Don McClean 1 s speaker $acks from last October would probably still be in Memorial Chapel! As to the C<lmment made about their actions being caused by a \power trip\ - I challenge anyone to actually take that accusation seriously. Both students realized that their actions would nut produce any new friends - especially those close to the Concert Committee exwCo\chairmen. Their only motive was to expose misconduct in reaffirming their pledge \to support and uphold . . . dignity and pride in • . . the college.\ (ACADEMIC CON- DUCT CODE). Mr. Lloyd continued .his attack by likening these students' behavior to that, not of college students, but of \descendants of Idi Amin.\ What they did, did not deserve the impudent statements of Mr. Uoyd. They acted in the in· terest of the college; they acted like college students. r hope, in sincerest humility, that the campus community will join with me in demanding that Mr. Lloyd publicly apologize to the two stude11ts whom he has attacked .and insulted ..... for in his mfounded insinuations, Mr. Lloyd has only succeeded in attacking and insulting every honest member of this college who seeks to actively support and uphold the ideals upon which this college was founded and continues to stand fot. Another Rebuke To the Editors: The letter·or Will Uoyd which appeared in the May 6 Con- cordiensts requires some comment. Mr. Lloyd implies that Mr. Seavey and Mr. Ross committed some illegal or immoral act in uncovering the crime of the Concert Committee chairpersons. They merely looked at the records of the committee as any Union College student who pays a student activities fee is allowed, and encouraged; to do. Thus. Mr. Lloyd's us~ of the analogy llf \Watergate plumbers\ is at least totally false, if not irresponsible. Next, l find it hard tq believe that Mr. Lloyd would refer to \ two students who revealed a crime and requested that their names not be. revealed as on a \power trip!' Neither of these gentlemen revealed the corrupt actions of the Concert Com- mittee chairpersons in. order to receive personal benefit, rather it was an action taken in the better interests of the whole college community. Th.e last problem with Mr. Lloyd's letter is one of motiYation. What motivated Mr. lloyd to harass two other students in this manner? It is obvious that Mr. Lloyd's per- sonal feelings moved him to reveal the names of Mr. Ross and Mr. Seavey, but the manner in which this was accomplished is malicious and the only visible goal of tbis action is sheer harassment. Harassing another student is an. irresponsible act for any member of our college community, but it is especially reprehensible when the act is committed by an elected of- ficial. Mainly, I feel sorry for Mr. Seavey and Mr. Ross because Mr. Lloyd is an in* fluential member of the college community and many students who are less than well informed on this topic will believe Mr. Uoyd because of his position in student government. I h<!pe that this letter will dispel anyone's ideas that Mr. Ross and Mr. Seavey acted illegally. Also, I hope that the members of this college community will be glad tbat Mr. Seavey and Mr. Ross acted as they did, and thus lessen the-damage wrought by Mr. Lloyd's false and irresp.onsible statements as much as possible. Sincerely, Brian Pattison Classof'84 Senior· Concerned To the Editors: Respectfully WilliamUnterbGrn '84 AS a concerned Union College senior I do not feel that the issue of over $200 in record albums being \misappropriated\ into the hands of the two co-- chairpeople of the Concert Committee should be con .. sidered either resolved or forgotten. Some people feel that dismissal from their positions and the return of the stolen funds is fair retribution for the crime committed. The fact remains, however t that as a student . who pays a Student Activities feel have been ripped off. I feel that the Coneert Committee's reaction to the crime was appropriate, but a charge of this nature should not be brushed under the carpet. The Student Forwn was per· fectly in order recommending that the two be brought up on conduct charges. I am not in· terested in \blood thirsty\ attitudes or sensationalism. I am just worried about the future of Union. If these two are to get off with a slap on the hand it would lead to a recurrence of similar \white collar\ crimes. Behavior of this kind should not be tolerated if Union is going tQ continue to exist as an honorable institution. Sincerely, Scott Comstock Corruption Charged A good friend of mine, who is now a senior, was telling me how her best friend freshman year was expelled for writing a paper that used the references of a girl who took the course the year before. The girl didn't copy the paper, she only used tbe other student's references. Webster's defines plagarism as roughly as using another's ideas without their permission. For this, a young girl had her career at Union wrecked. At WRUC on the other hand, certain members of the board have overwhelming evidence· against them that they used funds illegally. Furthermore it is dear that they covered up the incidents by refusing to show program logs as well as con- tinue to laugh at federal regs. that they, holding their highly valuable Restricted Radio Telephone Operator Permits are required to follow. The Forum for reasons unknown has barely scratched the surface of the layers of decaying bio-mass that now covers each and every innoeent member (D.J. 's and other- wise), ·Of WRUC. 'l'he board from last year has already boon found by the finance committee in- vestigating to have done the acli<lns in question. The Forum still refuses to act. Also, the Forum will not even look at the program logs of last month, let alone last summer, that along with Jeff Mitchell's admission of taking money from WRUC that was supposed to be paid by the school to a part-titne em- ployee will illuminate the atrocities. Another problem. at this point, is that the Forum may not even allow a perst>n who has not been found to have done anything wrong except make .political statements against those \running\ WHUC, run for office at the station. Someone should not be persecuted for saying that he or she believes that the habit of those in power needing student funds to call their mothers, brothers and girls friends shoUld be broken. If one doubts these accusations, cheek with Pete MacCaffrey of the Finance Committee. lf doubts still exist, listen to the tapes of the Finance Committee audit. The last election was announced only to those who did not oppose the corru~tion. Hopefully, the F.orumwon t wait until three nours before the next election to announce eligibility to those same people. If an incoming freshman can be removed from her college for what may have been her first and only offense, . the cases against people involved in of- fenses which are not only rules of the college but of our society as well should be fully heard by the .Fonnn, and if it is deter- mined that they did in fact commit the offenses they are charged of, not be allowed to harass and disrupt th(}se who want WRUC run in a way that won't leave the station open to financial corruption and since tbe F .C. C. will probably inspect the station due to the request for a power increase, probably license revocation. Josh Lowry Composite lost In reiteration of what has unfortunately become a · frequent complaint, I am · writing this letter as a plea in hopes of re-acquiring one of Sigma Delta Tau's composities. Our first and original composite was found to be missing from the Chapter House on the weekend of 4-24. We are .planning our first Founder's Weekend in two weeks in celebration of our five year anniversary at Union College and it would be very much appreciated if the com- posite, containing the pictures of our founding sisters, was on the wall to greet them. On a note of reflection, I would like to point out that college, especially in these times of skyrocketing costs, should be enjoyed to the fullest. I am definitely in favor of having fun and enjoying oneself. However, when property is destroyed, and the rights of fellow students are no longer respected, some of the meaning goes out of \having a good time.\ This letter has been written in a desperate attempt to regain our composite. Any in- formation regarding its whereabQuts would be greatly ·appreciated. Thank you. Linda Wallen Sister of Sigma Delta Tau Debate Announced To the campus comnnmity: As many of you are aware, elections will be held this · Friday for Student Forum of-· fices for next year. The position of Student Forum President is extremely influential in policy decisions. Too often, people are uninformed or tUtaware of a · candidate's feelings on the · issues that are presently before the Forwn and its committees. · Therefore, the Political Forum has invited the candidates for the position of Student Forum President to participate in an open debate. The debate will take place today at 4:30p.m. in Strauss Lounge. It is important that you attend this debate so that your vote is not one of ignorance but one .of awareness. Thank you, Peter Schlessel Chairman of Polltieal Forum

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, May 1~, 198! Student Forum Election· Statements -President- Andrew Erskine Hene Landress One of maRy tasks of an ef- fective Student Body President is to act as a sounding board for the ideas of the campus com- munity, while smoothly guiding the Student Forwn through the all important decision-making I am running for President of the Student Government Association. My interest as president manifests itself in what I see as the goal of student .~overnment, namely the representation of the student 'Jody. When a person represents a group, he does so through ~ornmunication. I feel I have ~he ability to communicate with :he campus community of Union College. . process. This entails working . with individual students, organizations, and college administrators. Simply communicating with :he student body is not enough. As President I will actively pursue the needs of each student. Of course as President nothing can be accomplished without support from the students themselves. What makes student government work is active participation by the students with the student body President as their voice. Only then can their needs be attended to. Thus we have what As a three-year member of · the Union College student population, I have found \student involvement\ to be a major concern. Involvement in student organizations shoud not be limited to a select few. Rather, opportunities should be open to all, thus benefiting the individual as well as the College. I feel student government is all about; being the spokesman of the student body and pursuing their needs through the formal structure of school government. As a beginning to the interest you have in Union College and your expectations thereof, I urge you to vote for all offices of student government on Friday May 14th. Secondly, I invite you to sit in on a debate of the Presidential candidates on ' Thursday May 13th at 4:30p.m. in Carnagie Hall. Lastly I urge you to get involved. Together let us get the wheels of student government working for us. If you have any specific questions concerning my candidacy please feel free to call me at 382- • 9330 or to stop me on campus. Erskine Feehan j~atthew Feehan The Student Forum possesses the ability to initiate positive direction for student needs through concrete actions. This ability is reduced to potential when the Student Forum loses touch with the views of those on campus. At meetings during the current year, haggling over interpretations of the Forwn's by-laws and concentration of efforts for personal vendettas have greatly restricted the Forum's leadership efforts. This waste need not continue. As student manager of the Rathskellar, and through contact with many of the .people on campus, I have had the unique opportunity to con- stantly hear the sentiments and As Junior Representative to the Student Forwn, Student Affairs Council Secretary, SubCommittee Chairmen and 1980-&1 Committee on Com- mittees member, I have not only gained a working knowledge of the Student governance system, but have had the opportunity to work with a variety of students, student run organizations and administrators. This ex- perience will aid me in leading the Student Forwn with utmost efficiency, while promoting greater student participation in College activities. My knowledge of the governance system's assets and liabilities and my committment to advance the necessary changes to upgrade the system, coupled with ·my enthusiasm and approachability will help me do the best job I can. Please remember, get involved, vote on Friday the 14th! L;;1ndress Maneen Joseph Maneen Meeting in caucus on the night of May 9., 1982 The ·. American Nationalist Party once again has chosen me to run for the position of President. Our goals are the same: 1) The realization of AMERICAN MANIFEST DESTINY -from pole to ice-capped pole, and 2) The total DESTRUCTION of Communism. Our ultimate MANIFEST DESTINY has been prearranged in heaven. America will one day stretch from theN orth Pole to the South Pole. However, this may take time so we must be patinent. But something which we can all take an active role in and. eventually taste the fruits of our victory is in wiping the scum of Communism from the earth. I think of myself as a surgeon and Communism as a disease. Right now I'm prescribing medicine which will help prepare my . patient for surgery. In that surgery we will snuff out the disease of Communism and we will all be much healthier without it. excellent bargaining Position. It is our belief that the Administration should in· corporate our goals into their policy. If they don't, support. · will be withdrawn. Think of it. One day America will encompass the entire • Western Hemisphere and the world will be free from the evils of Communism. By your election of me as President you can tell your children and grandchildren that you were part of the start of it all. Steve Verp As a concerned member of the Union College community, I have been disturbed and angered with some of the distasteful and scandalous events that occur at our school. Not only <toes the outside·world perceive Union College as not meeting high educational standards (ie. The NYT College Guide), but several misrepresentative incidents have occurred within the campus, which cut Union's credibility and shed negative light on the college. Pride movivates me to run for Student Government Association President, so that I can do something about problems that •Confront the school. My involvement within Union College range from being a brother at Sigma Phi to being on the Big Brothers-Big Sisters Executive Committee. With three years of college behind me, political experience in New Jersey and Washington, and a good rapport with fellow students and professors, I feel that I am qualified for the job. ·Together with these qualifications, my sense of humor and energetic and caring nature will add to my ef- fectiveness should I be elected. I share the opinion of many, that the SGA is inefficient and is not representative of the student body. The SGA should be more responsive to the students that it is governing. By holding referendums, im- portant issues would be decided by the entire student body, similar to proposition in California. Furthermore, in- terested parties would get a chance to participate and voice their opinions on these issues. Contrarily, those holding office do not show overwhelming concernwithmany issues on the agenda; when apathy hits the roots of representation, the SGA, then the system breaks down. For instance, many in- dividuals have missed meetings or not followed !hrough on commitments which curb SGA effectiveness. For this reason, mandatory attendance should be required, with sanctions being taken when respon- sibilities, such as attendance, are not met. Another problem that plagues the SGA is the accountability involved with. its $200,000 budget. Only this year, many instances have popped up where funds were misused, abused, mismanaged, and otherwise unproperly appropriated. For example,. many groups scramble to \find\ things to do with the remainders of their budgets at the end of the year; so that the SGA will not rescind the funds or penalize the group; this is blatant waste. · views of varied groups and individuals on campus. I have been involved in high school government as president of my freshman, sophomore, and junior classes as well as being president of the student body in my senior year. By executing efficient direction of the Forum's meetings and ac- tivities, while concentrating on the larger concerns -of the students, the Forum can be a significant communication network for the entire campus. I feel I can best lead the Forum toward this goal. To reach these goals it is imperative that I be elected President. In dealing with the Administration of Union College · the Student Forum is in an If elected, I will seek to reduce the SGA bureaucracy, making it- work more smoothly and more accessible to all. With your help on May 14, I will help you and the rest College achieve the standards of which it is capable. ·on May 14, please show your support and vote Steve Verp for president, Ver.p Wollin David Wollin It is time for a change! Union's Student Forum is the primary institutional 'body on campus for the representation of the student population in the governance of the college. Its .''power\ is both broad and potentially far-reaching. However, the Forwn has been beset by many problems which hinder its functioning and ef- _fectiveness as a governing body. For too long, the status quo has prevailed. It is time for a change. Specifically, there is a great need for increased supervision of Student Activity money, and Jill Bryce The relationship between student government and various organizations on campus is an extremely im- portant one. Lately, it seems that the Student Forum has been acting in an incompetent manner and has had difficulty in its dealings with several organizations. In addition there exists a lack of trust between the Student Forum and the Student Body. I do not think this should be the case and I would like to do something abQut it. I would like to be. on Student Forwn to have the opportunity to change this situation, con- tribute my ideas, as well as express imput from others. The Studer;1t Forum needs new people and I would like to be one of them. Bryce Fassler Irene Fassler Dedication I feel, is the most important quality in the Student Forum. Undertaking the role of Sr. Representative is not as. simple as some make it out to be. A true representative will do, in fact, what the title states- represent any suggestions, interests and problems posed by the senior class. I have, through past activities gained the knowledge to work within student run systems. Open communication is the key to both solicit'opinions from the class and to bring them before the Forum. One way I have gained this ability is through being assistant director of the forthcoming Mountebanks musical 'Company.' I iim confident that even without the prior experience in student government I am competent to do a good job. the equitable selection of . c Q m mit t e e m e m be r s . Moreover, the creation of a new set of By-Laws to govern the Student Forum and its com\\~ mittees, a promise that past. Forum presidents have failed keep, must be a high priority: Most importantly, the Student • Forum must work for the best interests .of the students, not. against them. The Student Forum is for the students! I want to be elected President of the Student Forum for one main reason: to make a change; to allevi~:te the problems that the Forum is facing,. and make it a more competent and e.ffective body· on campus. Although I cquld ask that you vote for me because I have been Editor-in- Chief of Union Views and President of the Pre-Law Society, I don't think that that is important. What is important is that you vote for me because of what I am going to do, and for not what I have already done. I will work for the students! If you want the status quo-the same Student Forum as this year-then don't vote for me. If. you want change-a competent and effective Student For~­ then vote for David Wollin for President (Friday, May 14th). It is time for a cha11ge! -Senior Being a stranger to politics I feel will work to my advantage. It will be necessary for me to work twice as hard to learn and to utilize the system at the same , time. I am willirlg and looking forward to putting the time into representing my class on the Student Forwn. Randy Gra.dy I am running for Senior Representative because I would enjoy being part of the college's decision-making process. I cannot guarantee a more eompetent government than those of previous years. I can promise that I will do my best. My aim is to make Union a more enjoyable place. The obvious example of a free keg everywhere is not possible, but I would like to, in some way, create a more relaxed at- mosphere. As a member of the Rock 'n' Roll Pizza Pub managerial staff and the Union illtimate team, I have at- tempted to creat~ this at- mosphere. I feel that as the Senior Representative to the SGA, I could more effectively help the campus corpmunity. .. ·- Grady Kocen ' Brya~ Kocen The student forum deals with all student clubs and organizations ranging from Biology Club to Concordiensis. Since each organization has its own particular needs and problems, the class representatives-must be aware of the numerous organizations which the forum will be dealing with in order to make informed and correct decisions. I have been a member of numerous campus organizations ranging from the Continued on page 11

of new the past ed best not ! ident• one a the is body me and is is of for I this If for OONOOR-DIENSIS) May 13~ 198! Page 11 . Student Forum Electi-on Statements --V.P. of Administ~at·ion- aurenceCaste·lli · As the Vice-President for Administration there are two essential issues I would like to address. The first and most • important is the creation of a new :By•Laws for the Student Forum; this will help the Forum to operate much more .smoothly, and also allow people . or groups dealing with the Forum some indication as to ·how the Forum will act with regard to. certain issues. My other major concern as Chairman of the Committee on Committees will be to insure the swift handling of all con- stitutional questions which come before the committee- this will help to keep some oUhe business pertaining to clubs 1n thosP. clubs and riot on the Forum agenda. Finally, I hope that you will give me the op- portunity to do the best job I can, and please vote on Friday, May 14. Castelli Steinberg Jeff Steinberg I will be on the ballot for the position of Vice-Pvesident of the student body for Administration. The position would place me as the chair- person of the Committee on Committees; a committee I have worked on for the past year and one whose function and procedures I am very · familiar with. I h_ave been very involved in administrative activities over the past three . years and I feel confident in my ability to perform the duties of V.P. for Administration. In the past year I have also served as also ·as a member of the 1981 Orientation Committee. I have often heard it said that \the sa,me people get appointed to everything ... all the time\. This may be true to a degree and as chairman of CoG I would be in a position to do something about that. The selection process could be altered somewhat as we have received .many good suggestions this term from the over three- hWJdred applicants to 1982-a:J committees. Recently there has been a probJem with abuse of .student activity funds. While much of tile responsibility lies with the . Finance committee, the Committee on Colrimittees can ·force changes in club con- :stitutions that would change certain procedures and eliminate the possibility .of such abuses. The Finance Com- mittee has a tremendous job to do ln distributing. over $200,000 in activity fees. The CoC could concern itself more with the flaws in the system that allow said abuses to occur. Please vote Friday, May 14th. -Y.P. of Finance- Ben Heckscher I ·believe that the experience that I have gained as a Chair- person ·of this years Film Committee, whose overall success and efficacious use of our budget, made up of yo~r student activity fees, holds me in good stead te seek election to the position of Student Forum Vice-President for Finance. At present, many students- feel that there is little control over how their activity dollars are spent. Anyone who has been ·involved with any student organizations this year knows the job that this years Finance Committee has done. Their reactive, rather than active, nature must be changed. Next years committee must make an attempt to prevent financial problems before they arise. There must be simple--yet firm- -written rules governing the expenditure of our activity dollars. If you think that your vote is unimportant, then consider that it might be wortn almost a only three years old. In this short period of time, I feel that tremendous progress has been made in standardizing the budgeting process and · establishing budgetary ,criteria. This past year has clearly shown instances where the Finance Committee operated smoothly and efficiently. Granted, there are still major problems in the system, but I feel that the best way to try and \wipe them out would be to work on the established sy~tem and not to create a new committee bent on instituting its own set of radical reforms. This could only set back the progress already made. I have been involved with the Finance Conunittee for the past three years and feel that I have a sense for the direction it has taken. Next year, with the planned increase in the Student Activities Fee, the Finance Committee Will have an ad- ditional $30,000 to 'distribute. I believe that with my sense of the established criteria and the planned direction of the com- ~nittee, this money could most efficiently be allocated. Treasurer of my Fraternity and --.l..~lf---1.._-----------------------------------'\\\1 quarter-million dollars! These are your dollars. Tomorrow, I to same into n the would ss. I more than I can best. a The keg but I way, at- of the Pub Union at- at- the the , with and from has its and class aware zations of the page 11 Representative~ film committee and the Fox Dorm Counsel to WRUC and Ceteris Paribus. I know how campus organizations can and should operate. I am in favor of organizations being asked to · keep accurate records of where student funds go in order to reduce waste and misuse by these organizations. I feel that this will also help the organizations themselves, because they will have to think about their priorities before they spend student money. I think that my participation in campus organizations will help me make informed and proper choices when the forum must make decisions that must be in the best interests of all student clubs and organizations as well as the student body as a whoJe. Mary Martin it my strongest committment senior year. Martin Mogul Mark Mogul Hi, I am rwming for the office of Senior Representative of your student government. I am doing so for I feel I am qualified . to perform the job well and with my fellow students' interests in mind. I am well aware of what the position entails and i am prepared to do what is necessary to voice all student concerns brought to my at- tention. I am also aware of how My main interaction with the campus community has been through my involvement as head student intramural coordinator, tw<J years of Varsity football, and activities associated with Sigma Chi fraternity. I am also involved with the Big Brothers-Big Sisters Organization of Schenectady. I am majoring in Industrial Economics. I believe I should be Senior Class Representative because I properly represent a large cross-section of our class and frequently interact with the campus socially, academically, and extracurricularly. If elected, I will \represent\ the senior class, our problems and our needs. I will be receptive to new ideas and questions con- cerning campus activities. I hope you will represent the senior class and give me your support by voting on Friday. Nowak make your vo.ice heard. Tomorrow ... vote Heckscher. Barton Levine Many people do not realize that the Finance Committee is Heckscher Levine -Junior Trustee- laurence Tuchman The Board of Trustees is faced with major decisions such as the allocation of funds and capital development. As trustee, I would be in favor of earmarking funds for im- provement of the student center and the renovation of Alumni . Gym. In addition to this, funds should be set aside to improve the computer center allowing for greater access through increased terminal availability. These improvements are sought by the students and can be projected through a responsible person like myself. The student trustee must be interested in the well being of the college and in improving student life at Union. People are elected to serve others to the best of their ability-a service that I can provide for the college as J u.nior Trustee. D-an Savrin It seems to me, an.d I assume many of you, that there is neglect by the school of many student interests and priorities. I am running for the posithm of Junior Representative to the Board of Trustees in an attempt to correct tis problem. As a member of the Sub- Council on Extracurricular Activities, I am actively in- - volved in providing a report for the Administration on st11dent concerns regarding .. ex- tracurricular programs. With the information provided by this study and with my general involvement in a variety of Continued .,n page 1 I want very much to become one of our Senior Class Representatives to the Student Forum. It is a very important position because of the im- mense responsibility associated with it. I would be representing our entire class in all decisions involving our student govern- ment affairs. I know that I could carry out the duties rnore than satisfactor1ly and I would do tnY best to accurately express our views on issues that. arise concerning our immediate welfare and the future welfare of the school. · this school and administration runs for I have been very in· volved in extracurricular campus life. For example, I am presently an R.A. in Fox dor- mitory and a Gatesman. In addition I have been a Big Brother for two years. If elected I will do my very best to represent our class as well as I possibly can which means always having an open ear to student concerns, an open mouth during forwn sessions, (something I rarely have dif- ficulty doing) and a true dedication to the job. -Junior Representative- I am currently Junior Representative to tne Student Forum. I am most thankful for obtaining this position as it has given me a great deal_ of ex- perience in terms of our student · government process. Several controversial issues were brought before the Forum this year and I feel that I con- tributed to the right decisions made. I took a strong interest as was shown by my attendance at meetings. At all times I welcomed my fellow classmates inpUt as I would do in the upcoming year if I was elected. Lastly, I know that I am very qUalified for this position and that I would make Stephen Nowak Gary ~ehr Three spots open, and only . three peopl~ running. I don't . even have to write anything here.=there doesn't have to be an election for Junior Representative. Maybe people don't think Student Forwn is important. I do, or else I · wouldn't be \running\ for re- election again. Obviously, those I am running for the position running for the other positions of Senior Class Representative · • also think Forum is worthwhile, because I realize the im- especially those who have put portance of our class having a up with all the controversies voice in the campus com- and problems this year. Student mWlity. I believe this position · Forum has improved a lot this should be filled by an individual · year, and should continue to who can properly relate and act · improve in the future. VOTE upon campus community ' tomorrow for those offices you problems. I also feel that this • can. It's yonr RESPON- person should represent a large SIBILITY. Otherwise, you cross-section of the student really have no right to complain body. next year. Lehr N.anziger James Nanziger I would like to represent you as your Junior Class ·Representative to the Student Forum. I feel communication with students is the key to being a good representative. The representative must know the issues which most strongly affect his classmates and by communicating with them, he can understand their opinion, and thus best represent them. By including more people in the decision making process, I will try my best to see that my classmates' interests are given a voice when changes are made at Union. Barbara Rogers Hi! I'm running for Junior Representative to the St11dent Forum. Unfortunately, only three juniors have chosen to run for representative which is just enough to fill the three available positions. This makes the Junior Class appear very apathetic, although this is not necessarey the case. Most students who go on a term abroad go in their Junior Year and the position of Junior Trustee takes away several oossible candidates. Continued on page

Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, ~ay 13, 1982 Student Forum Election :statements -Sophomore Representative- Steve Benson As Freshman Representative I have learned much about how our school works and especially how the governance system operates. The most basic stand I can take is to try to make our Student Forum into more of an act1ve organization than the reactive one it is today. The government is a platfarm for student grievances and must recognize its responsibility to act upon them. In the past months I have studied the troubles of our college through the Housing and Food Service Subcomittee of the Student Affairs Council. The conclusion is obvious-the need for a large student center with both a social lobby and different stores. But what about us; the students now attending Union. Someone must be concerned for our present situation, and this is the job of the Forwn member. There is also the present concern with the misuse of Student Activity Funds. This 1-------------------------t must be rectified today, not ' -Junior Trustees- tomorrow wheH another student leader is caught embezzling. The recent suggestion of a computer for keeping track of 1-------------------------1 the funds is a good one; and Continued from page 11 clubs, I feel that I am in a position to responsibly and efficiently represent the student body. Additionally, as editor of The Freshman Record I am working with several administrator~ at the College and am well in- formed about the structure and procedure of administrative operations. On Friday, select a well-informed, straight-forward and articulate Junior Representative to the Board of Trustees-Dan Savrin. MelissaViglielm must be studied more closely. Finally, I would like to say I am an experienced member of the Forum. I know what has to be done. And I hope for the chance to do it. Thank you. Benson Brand Sue Brand As the representative of the students and their concerns, the I would like to be your . Junior Trustee serves a vital ,. Sophomore Representative function on the Union College - because I feel I am qualified to Board of Trustees. The position Savrin represent the best interests of . requires a competent, informed our class. Representative to the and __ strong-willed individual Student Forum is a position that who isn't afraid to eXpress the requires dedication, en- views of the students. My name thusiasm, and commitment. I is Melissa Viglielmo, and I feel believe I possess these traits. If qualified to serve the campus in this election is to be a true this capacity. My experience in · representation of the interests the Student Forum, as well as of our class, it is important that -----------------\i-'._ 1 9_1i_e_lm_o _____ . everyone votes. So please, vote Sue Brand for Sophomore Representative. · -Junior Representative- Continued from page 11 Even though there are only three candidates rwming, an election will take place and I'd encourage you to go'out and vote to at least show an interest in the government of the school. The Student Forum is in- fluential ~d is in charge of allocating all funds to the various college activities which affect us all. I have always been interested in student government but I cannot claim to have a l<Jt of first hand experience. Through being Junior Representative, I hope to gain this experience. I don't have a big campaign speech but I would like to say that as Junior Representative I would do my best to represent the ideas and voice the com- plaints of the Junior Class. Shari Midoneck It seems. like I was writing my freshmen statement yesterday and was asking you if you knew who I was. Now it is time for me to ask for your support once again. As Freshmen Representative I really learned a lot about student government. At first I was overwhelmed by everything,. and all I could do was watch what went on. Now I am fortunate to have the ex- perience on the .forum. My familiarity with its structure would be extremely valuable if elected sophomore represen- tative. My experience as Freshman Representative has helped me to recognize the Forum's needs. One important need of the Forum is the creation of By- Laws .. Once again the Forum existed without any real format to follow. Another .problem with this year's Forum was it took an passive instead of an active role. I believe it is the job of the Forwn to prevent problems from occuring instead of waiting for them to occ.uy. If this was done problems like the concert committee and WRUC might never have happened. My responsibility as representative Is to vote in away that wollld be that woUld be most beneficial to the class. I came down hard on people who misused student funds and violated student rights. lf elected I will have another responsibility; the respon- sibility to keep the class in- formed of the Forum's decisions. The Forum has a great deal of power and so few people are aware of its role in student affairs. I believe if more . people were aware of what went on there would be a decrease in student apathy-a real problem on this campus .. I just want to conclude by thanking you for giving me the opportunity to represent the class. I tried to do everything to the best of my ability, and will . continue trying if elected Sophomore Representative. JIJ\idoneck Weiner Robin Weiner I'm running for Sophomore Representative to the Student Forum. It is hard to convey in a . short paragraph the reasans . you should vote for me. Words· can never accurately com- municate qualities such as l'esponsibility or enthusiasm. The forwn needs members who will review the issues with an · open mind. I will try my best to do this. I am a gaod listener, but • also have a loud voice and will stand up for what I believe is right. Our class has had fine representation in the past. To keep this going and also add a new face to the forum, vote for me as your representative. I will do my best for you and the school. Thank you. ATTENTION SENIORS! The Senior Fling Committee would like to thank all. those who participated in the Senior Fling vote. The results are: 130 votes--Lake George Boat Cruise 59 votes--Picnic at Thatcher Park 28 votes--Party at the Rafters 21 votes--Race Night at Saratoga 9 votes-- Trip to Riverside It will be possible to offer both the Lake George .Cruise and Picnic at Thatcher Pa.rk as events for Senior Fling 1982. Please reserve Wednesday evening, June 9th, and .Thursday, June lOth for these activities. Weare currently working out all details so ticket information will be for- thcoming! Final Standings $1000 Winners .. 1) Chi Psi 2) Delta Upsilon\ 3) Sigma Delta T~u $500 Winners 4) Psi Upsilon 5) Phi Sigma Kappa 6) Delta Deha Delta WINNERS 'PICK UP 'WE 'PICKED 'UPGASIL . . . ~ .

Page 12 GONCORDIENSIS, May 13, 1982 Student Forum Election State·m~ents -Sophomore Representative- Steve Benson As Freshman Representative I have learned much about how our .school works and especially how the governance system :Jperates. The most basic stand I can take is to try to make our Student Forum into more of an act1ve organization than the reactive one it is today. The government is a platform for student grievances and must recognize its responsibility to act upon them. In the past months I have studied the troubles of our college through the Housing and Food Service Subcomittee of the Student Affairs Counctl. The conclusion is obvious-the need for a large student center with both a soc1allobby and different stores. But what about us; the students now attending Union. Someone must be concerned for our present situation, and this is the job of the Forum member. There is also the present concerFl with the misuse of Student Activity Funds. This 1------------------------.,... must be rectified today, not -Junior Trustees- tomorrow when another student leader is caught embezzling. The recent suggestion of a computer for keeping track of 1--------------------------i the funds is a good one, and Continued from page 11 clubs, I feel that I am in a position to responsibly and efficiently represent the student body. Additionally, as editor of The Freshman Record I am working with several administrators at the College and am well in- formed about the structure and procedure of administrative operations. On Friday, select a well-informed, straight-forward and articulate Junior Representative to the Board of Trustees-Dan Savrin. Melissa Vigl iel m As the representative of the students and their concerns, the Junior Trustee serves a vital function on the Union College Board of Trustees. The position requires a competent, informed and_ strong-willed individual who isn't afraid to express the views of the students. My name is Melissa Viglielmo, and I feel qualified to serve the campus in this capacity. My experience in the Student Forum, as well as my work in Lamont House, has giveR me insight into the problems and issues that a trustee must deal with. As a Resident Advisor, I have been able to communicate with students and hear others' views OR the direction of the college. The important vote that you cast on Friday will help determine the future policies of the Board of Trustees. V ()te for communication, competence and experience-vote Melissa Viglielmo. - Tuchman Savrin Viglielmo -Junior Representative- Continued from page 11 Even though there are only three candidates running, an election will take place and I'd encourage you to go'out and vote to at least show an interest in the government of the school. The Student Forum is in- fluential and is in charge of allocating all funds to the various college activities which affect us all. I have always been interested in student government but I cannot claim to have a lot of first hand experience. Through being Junior Representative, I hope to gain this experience. I don't have a big campaign speech but I would like to say that as Junior Representative I would do my best to represent the ideas and voice the com- plaints of the Junior Class. must be studied more closely. Finally, I would like to say I am an experienced member of the Forum. I know what has to · be done. And I hope for the chance to do it. Thank you. Benson Brand Sue Brand I would like to be your Sophomore Representative because I feel I am qualified to represent the best interests of our class. Representative to the Student Forum is a position that requires dedication, en- thusiasm, and commitment. I believe I possess these traits. If this election is to be a true representation of the interests of our class, it is important that everyone votes. So please, vote Sue Brand for Sophomore Representative. Shari Midoneck It seems like I was writing my freshmen statement yesterday and was asking you if you knew who I was. Now it is time for me to ask for your support once again. As Freshmen Representative I really learned a lot about student government. At first I was overwhelmed by everythmg, and all I could do was watch what weRt on. Now I am fortunate to have the ex- perience on the forum. My familiarity with its structure would be extremely valuable if elected sophomore represen- tative. My experience as Freshman Representative has helped me to recognize the Foru.m's needs. One important need of the Forum is the creation of By- Laws. Once again the Forum existed without any real format to follow. Another problem with this year's Forum was it took an passive instead of an active role. I believe it is the job of the Fortun to prevent problems from occuring instead of waiting for them to occur. If this was done problems like the concert committee and WRUC might never have happened. My responsibility as representative is to vote in away that would be that woUld be most beneficial to the class. I came down hard on people who misused student funds and violated student rights. If elected I will have another responsibility; the respon- sibility to keep the class in- formed of the Forum's decisions. The Forwn has a great deal of power and so few people are aware of its role in student affairs. I believe if more people were aware of what went on there would be a decrease in student apathy-a real problem on this campus. I just want to conclude by thanking you for giving me the opportW1ity to represent the class. I tried to do everything to the best of my ability, and will continue trying if elected Sophomore Representative. Midoneck Weiner Robin Weiner I'm running for Sophomore Representative to the Student · Forum. It is hard to convey in a short paragraph the reasons you should vote for me. Words can never accurately com- municate qualities such as responsibility or enthusiasm. The forum needs members who will review the issues with an open mind. I will try my best to do this. I am a good listener, but also have a loud voice and will stand up for what I believe is right. Our class has had fine representation in the past. To keep this going and also add a new face to the forum, vote for me as your representative. I will do my best for you and the school. Thank you. ATTENTION SENIORS! The Senior Fling Committee would like to thank all those who participated in the Senior Fling vote. The results are: 130 votes-.Lake George Boat Cruise 59 votes-- Picnic at Thatcher Park 28 votes-- Party at the Rafters 21 votes-- Race Night at Saratoga 9 votes--Trip to Riverside It wi II be possible to offer both the Lake George Cruise and Picnic at Thatcher Park as events for Senior Fling 1982. Please reserve Wednesday evening, JuRe 9th, and Thursday, June lOth for these activities. Weare currently working out all details so ticket information will be for- thcoming! Final Standings $1000 Winners 1} Chi Psi 2} Delta Upsilon 3) Sigma Delta T~u $500 Winners 4) Psi Upsilon 5) Phi Sigma Kappa 6) Delta Delta Delta WINNERS 'PICK UP 'WE 'PICKED 'UP GASH... . i I i I' i I r : I I. l

by. the the ted ons · as an to but is To a for I the O.QNOORDIENSIS, May 13, 198! ~age 1~ - ; ,. t i, . .. ..... ' \' \\ 0 ·. .l ' • c ' ' ' .. Gen,eral :Nottices FOR SALE: Fender Precision Bass, excellent condition; Woodson Bass Amp. Exc. condition, 2 15 inch, 80 watts RMS (180), 2 channels, 4 inputs, bright control. Call Andy 393-'8148 (will sell by piece). FOR SALE: CCM Mustang Hockey Skates. Size 5, used once, incredible condition. $35. Call Andy 393.;0148. Philosophy Colloquium . The Philosophy Colloquium is pleased to announce a talk by Dr. Richard Raylor Spencer Leavitt Chair of Philosophy, Union College on \The Perils of Polarized Thinking\ on Wed- nesday May 19th in Humanities 215. Typist available for summer work. If interested, drop a note to Rachel Mandel, Box 2202, explaining the type of work involved, any deadlines and where you can be contacted. I will get in touch with you as soon as possible. BRONNER·· .BRUISERS; Thanks for a wenderf.ul··season! It, was the best. Hilre~ s tO' next yeaL .. Love ya mucbly alot very much and ·more. Do you mind? I like that ~.L.O. Tllauk you. e Ices Cbris Howd Happy 21st birthday. · Mr. President (;..9-82 Love, Donna Cheryl-I miss programming with you thls.term-maybe next course when we have a real professor---Mike RGo-&l~~ng is ok, but you should try toe elixir. of life, a frQsty mug .of matts at your friendly Rat. Next time, we'll sendyolEparents off to a movie by themselves and have a few. Love, Youkncwwho2 TO UGLY, You ought to try putting some cl<~thes an before peeing into trash cans in tbe middle of the night!! L-ove, TheNag Will, if Y:'OU . ever need any work done ..... like .a faucet that only dr:i!lbles-.call us real · . pl~bers! .St,tre, we mity cost a little moTe~ but why not try the lt~t\ ••• ~ ~l< G(n·~oilua.dy 1 ii.;A~li'P~.;_J·;· n--iH. r Ji~'DA Y GRETCHJlJ!! ! . ,.. Hey big oie, . H. F~kitl &day! .· ·.' .... Rock .&. Roll I 0}f T~~ Greekfroqt Last Chance Don't wait until 1984, when you can participate in the Delta Gamma Olympics, May 22, 1982. Form your ten member teams now and contact Delta Gamma by May lOth. See your RA., Fraternity or Sorority Presidents for further details or give us a call. Proceeds to benefit Sight Conservation and Aid to the Blind. Do not Delay! Start flexing those muscles and get into shape! Delta Gamma Oceao Party Anchors Aweigh for the Delta Gamma Ocean Party on Friday, May 14th at 3 p.m. outside DG, behind the field house. Lots of Beer, fresh Sea Breeze Blue Killer Whales and an abundance of Cape Cod- ders!! Be there-Aloha! Delta Chi Band Party SUNY Binghamton student l;·fl!rfihtii:A:; tmmso seeks Schenectady summer nelml'•na\!1e•?be~trk).ltC#!'i~~lTJJMijr1~'Q,l;l!•·r>·•·· sub-let. (One bedroom, maybe ·~ The Delta Chi fraternity is sponsoring a charity beer blast to benefit the American Cancer Society on Thursday, May 27. The band \Free Fall\ will supply hot southern rock all afternoon, beginning at 3:30. There is also a hamburger and hot dog barbeque, and prizes will be raffled off. two). Write or· call Doug· at 329l . .f~aFa:e.t?'J.,,, .. \,.:.,•>•,t+·;~wM~trt\b.~rw.~~·\\••·Af Main Street, Binghamton, NY 13905, (607) 770-8092. The sooner I·PJ:tVell.ed1!-U;i the better. Administ ra ti ve and Engineering Systems will sponsor a colloquium presen- ting Mr. William W. Robertson, Sales .Manager, United States Steel Corporation who will speak on The Steel Industry in the United States, Thursday, May 13, 1982-3:45-P.M. in Room 207. Bailey Hall, Union College. Faculty, students, and the interested public are invited. Bio-Club meeting Thursday, May 13 at 5:00 p.m. in Carnegie • Conference Room A. Union College Film Committee Presents Screenplay by FRANCOIS TRUFFAUT and SUZANNE SCKlRFMAN Dltector of Photocraphy PIERRE-WILLIAM GLENN Mtislt MAURICE JAUBERT Dlrceted by FRANt:OlS TRUFFAUT A Lu Filma d1.1 CarrOOM •nd t.n Produulorlt Ar11Hil A_,..lll tl>\rtcdlittl\\ FILMS INCORPORATED ~~~.~~~$! Tuesday 1 May 18 at 9 & 11 p.m. Free! 55016 Union College Film Committee Presents Alin Cuny, Sylvia Kristel, Marika Green Columbia; Directed by Just Jaeckin Rated X Friday/ May 14, 11 p.m., SSOl6 Sat., Sun .. , 7, 9, 11 p.m., $1..00 Union College Film Committee Presents \'~1·1\:SoJI'ISTHE BEST AMERICAN WAR COMED\' SINCE SOUND C4ME IN '''-Paulrne l<ael. 8 New Yorker 20th C!nMy fo• ~tStnts WI :Jl: S•JI An In go Prem1nger Product:on swnnc DONALD SUTHERlAND· ELLIOTI GOULD ·TOM SKERRITT C..Stlfllll& SAllY 11(U£RMAN ·IIQB£A1 OINill· J(J '.NN Pfl.!X; • RI:NI AUB<RJOt«liS \R P!adolc~ by Ouecll!d by Scr~ay by B~ Frcm 1 llOitl by RICIW!Ill«llKER IIIJI>C trr JOHNNY IUIIO!l \'\\'\\~\\ INGO PREMINGER ROBERT AI. TMAN RING LARDNER Jr ,.,,.,.,.. ' • \MOl• 'r '\ .. ~ .. Color by DE LUXE® PANA\IISION• '\r::..:!\' · .:§ ORIGINAL SOUNDTRACK RECORDING ON COLUMBIA RECORDS Wednesday, May 19 . $1.00 7,9, 11 p.m . SS016 '~ ··::;;.;:JJ.~ '

by to r as an but is To a for . I ; . ' i : . i . \ I . I ' 1 f ., I i: I I. I I r I. l O.ONOORDIENSIS~ May 13, 198~ Page 13 I '\'- ~ \' .... c ' . ' . ' ' ~ . General Nottices .;...,• FOR SALE: Fender Precision Bass, excellent condition; Woodson Bass Amp. Exc. condition, 2 15 inch, 80 watts RMS ( 180), 2 channels, 4 inputs, bright control. Call Andy 393-8148 (will sell by piece). FOR SALE: CCM Mustang Hockey Skates. Size 5, used once, incredible condition. $35. Call Andy 393-~1148. Philosophy Colloquium The Philosophy Collo~uium is pleased to announce a talk by Dr. Richard Raylor Spencer Leavitt Chair of Philosophy, Union College on \The Perils of Polarized Thinking\ on Wed- nesday May 19th in Hwnanities 215. Typist available for summer work. If interested, drop a note to Rachel Mandel, Box 2202, explaining the type of work involved, any deadlines and where you can be contacted. I will get in touch with you as soon as possible. SUNY Binghamton student seeks Schenectady summer sub-let. (One bedroom, maybe two). Write or call Doug at 329 Main Street, Binghamton, NY 13905, (607) 770-8092. The sooner the better. Administrative and Engineering Systems will sponsor a colloquium presen- ting Mr. William W. Robertson, Sales ~anager, United States Steel Corporation who will speak on The Steel Industry in the United States, Thursday, May 13, 1982-3:45--P.M. in Room 207. Bailey Hall. Union College. Faculty, students, and the interested public are invited. Bio-Club meeting Thursday, May 13 at 5:00p.m. in Carnegie Conference Room A. • BRONNER BRUISERS: Thanks for a wonderful season! It was the best. Here's to next year •.. Love ya muchly alot very much and more. Do you mind? I like that E.L.O. Thank you. SL-Y our time has come, BE PREPARED!! ! My bloodholes and I would like to thank every~me who cared when I was sick! Enough said-my throat hqrts. MB: The award couldn't have been given to a sweeter person. I loveya,cutie!-NB ... Oh, Cathy R: Congrats to you too! Tracy ll: Double congratulations! (l) your award and (2) your first per- sonal.-Naomi RIM: Congrats on-the award! A wruble, wasn't it? Anyway, Hooray!-I'm glad to have met Mr. and Mrs. RIM. You still owe me a drink . • .-Nairobi RAT- You might say {)Ut· classed but this cage won't be outdone. There is always a trick · being held within induding this one. A personal that should never have been read or did you forget?! Davidson and Fox Get Psyched! l ! ! It will be the best ever. May 21-here we come! ! Pardon me Dana, you seem like a reasonably intelligent woman-I would just like to say that you have a personality and a friend (me) so stop worrying. Okay? Great. / Love, The Poop J.J,S, M & G (WHO???) We ·never got yow; call so we couldn't hang up on you. Guess you DON'T have our number 86'Hi'3091 We have no reproducing penguin taped to the wall of our T.V. for you to . blow up. Good times-A&K Union College Film Committee Presents &:n~nphl)' b) FRANCOIS TRUFFA.UT and SUZANNE SCHIFFMAN 0 1 rector of Phntosraphy PIERRE-WILLIAM GLENN Mum MAURICE JAUBERT D1rectcd by FRANtOtS TltUFFAVT \~~ Folmo duf..arT<>tN 1nd ltt Pt\'luttOOIII ~nooiU lt.looiO<trl<<'>-,.....,\'\\'\' FILMS INCORPORATED Tuesday, May 18at9& 11 p.m. Free! SS016 - Ices •. . ' • -. l . . j.-i '~' Chris Howd Happy 21st birthday, Mr. President 5-9-a2 Love,. Donna Cheryl-I miss programming with you this term-maybe next course when we have a real professGr-Mike RGQ-Sleeping is ok, but you should try the elixir of life, a frosty mug of matts at your friendly Rat. Next time, we'll send your parents off to a movie by themselves and have a few. Love. Youknowwho2 I Oil ill~ GrcekfroQt APOLLo-LOTUS SOUNDS ENTICING . . . I ACCEPT YOUR INVITATION .•. YOUR NEOPHYTE Mum-Although you are not here all of the time, you are constantly in my thoughts and prayers. Thank ynu for visiting me and I hope you enjoyed this Mother's Day. Love Always, Donna Karen: Congratulations! We knew you'd make it through. Ya done good· kid! Love always, your r{)omies SO BONZO, How's the Fat Rat!? Alpha Lambda Kappa Tau- The Alternative! R<>meo-If the only view in the pit, were you, it's be worth the jwnp. But I'm scared to-being a 4 is so safe. Th<Jugh I miss you, I have no questions about what you're doing. Good luck. Juliet ROO-What's the matter, cat got your tongue. At least you could tell l or 2 stories ·when we go out. I'm rwming out. I'll let it go as long as you can continue to get us free beer. Love, youknowwho. TO UGLY, You ought to try putting some clothes on before peeing into trash cans in the middle of the night!! Love, The Nag Matt & Jeff, :My sincerest condolences. It happens to the best of us! Best wishes, R.M. Nixon '74 Will, if you ever need any work done-like a faucet that only dribbles--call us real plumbers! Sure, we may cost a little more, but why not try the real thing! · -G. Gordon Uddy HAPPY BIRTHDAY GRETCH!! I ! ! ! Hey big de, H. F'kin :&-day! -Rock & Roll Donna G. Happy 20th birthday-5·18-82- You're finally legal in BOSTON! ! ! Have a great day- and get WASTED! t CL {alias \K\)-I wish you hadn't waited till the Molson Party. Definitely better late than never! Summertime Yankee games and Willies. Get psyched! Last Chance Don't wait until 1984, when you can participate in the Delta Gamma Olympics, May 22, 1982. Form your ten member teams now and contact Delta Gamma by May lOth. See your RA, FraterNity or Sorority Presidents for further details or give us a call. Proceeds to benefit Sight Conservation and Aid to the Blind. Do not Delay! Start flexing those muscles and get into shape! Delta Gamma Ocean Party Anchors Aweigh for the Delta Gamma Ocean Party on Friday, May 14th at 3 p.m. outside DG, behind the field house. Lots of Beer, fresh Sea Breeze Blue Killer Whales and an abundance of Cape Cod- ders! ! Be there-Aloha 1 Delta Chi Band Party The Delta Chi fraternity is sponsoring a charity beer blast to benefit the American Cancer Society on Thursday, May 27. The band \Free Fall\ will supply hot southern rock all afternoon, beginning at 3:30. There is also a hamburger and hot dog barbeque, and prizes will be raffled off. Union College Film Committee Presents Alin Cuny, Sylvia Kristel, Marika Green Columbia; Directed by Just Jaeckin Rated X Friday, May 14, 11 p.m., 55016 Sat., Sun., 7, 9, 11 p.m., $1.00 Union College Film Committee Presents \'~1·1\:S·II' IS THE BEST AMERICAN W4R COMEDY SINCE SOUND CAME IN ,,, -Paulrne Kael. e New Yorker WJ :1\: S·JI An lngoPrem~nger Production sumnc DONALD SUTHERLAND ELLIOTI GOULD TOM SKERRITI CoSb<~<nc SAlLl MEU[RMAN R081RT OUVAU /0 ~NN PfL.X: RINI IUB!R/OIIOIS ~ l'lodueed by Orrrtlrd by Screenplay by ~~ from • \\''' br RICHAAD t«;())I[R llu~c by JOIINNV MANCIL M,_,.,.~. INGO PRE MINGER ROBERT ALTMAN RING LARDNER. Jr ...... .,,. IJI'oH<''' ....... . Color by DE LUXE® PANAVISION 11 ·~r::.~· ~ ORIGINAL SOUNDiRACK RECORDING ON COLUMBIA RECORDS Wednesday,May 19 $1.00 7, 9, 11 p.m. 55016 0

Page 14 OONCORDIENSJS, May 13, 1982 Women's Lax· Season Over l Coach Mar:y Morrison holds a conference Athletes Honored By K. BENTLEY W. Sports Ed. Four Union women received athletic awards on Prize Day this past weekend-Marabeth Soltis, Julie Miller, Holly Howard, and Carol Wrenn. Marabeth Soltis won the Senior Athletic Prize, awarded to the senior who bas dorw the most to promote sports for women at Union. Marabeth has competed in swim team for four years. She was also honored as outstanding Head R.A. for this year. season. Holly Howard won the Eastern College , Athletic Conference Medal of Merit, given :to the junior female athlete who has combined excellence in athletic com- petition with academic ex- cellence or outstanding service to the college. Holly, who plays lacrosse and field .hockey, holds the women's lacros.se record for th~ most goals scored in a season and in a career. She has scored 115 goals in three varsity lacrosse seasons. Also, Holly is the two-year vice president of Block U. Carol Wxenn received the Robert B. Ridings Award which is presented to a senior female athlete for her attitude, ability, participation .and achievement. in intercollegiate sports. Carol has competed on the soft ball team for two years and basketball for four. This winter she was co-captain of the basketball team and had her best season with 218 points in 10 games. By SHARON PEARL SpOrts Staff The women's lacrosse team finished up their season on Monday with an excellent game vs. Hartwick. The team lost 6-7, but coach Marty Morrison said they played their best game of the season. On Thutsday, the· team lost to Hamilton by a score of 2-11. They weren't playing'up to par, and were .not used to Hamilton's rough playing. Holly 0 :>ward scored both goals in 1at game, but the general tone If the game was one of frustration; the team lacked composure. The Junior Varsity won their game 5-3 with Kathy Kozera and Janet Blum each scoring two and Emily Haft adding the final goal. On Friday, the team travelled to Oneonta, and. lost that game 7-9. They played fairly well, but had a two-minute lapse when . Oneonta scored four of their nine goals. Holly Howard made six of Union's seven and Sheryl Katz scored the remaining goal Union scored four of their seven goals in the final 10 minutes of the game. The JV players won their game 4-3. Cay Lynch was responsible for three of the ,goals and Heidi Horak made the final one. Saturday morning the team took on Russell Sage and again Varsity and JV won, by scores of 8-4 and 11-0, respectively. Sage is a relatively inex- perienced team, but nonetheless, Union played well. Sage uses a man-to-man defense so if they lose their man, they get into defensive trouble. Union took advantage of this and controlled the scoring. · Debbie Goldberg scored first in the varsity game, Holly Howard had three, and Liz Garcia and ,Sheryl Katz each had two. Union's JV's dominated their game and controlled play the large majority of the game. Lynn Pietrocola had four goals, Louise 'Fischer and Emily Haft each had two, and Heidi H.orak, Maureen Avalle, and SaHy Carey each scored one. For the final game of the . season, the varsity played their best game ever, which un• fortunately ended in a 6-7 Iossto Hartwick. It was nice to have played so well for their last game even though it ended in a loss. Holly had fom: goals in this game, and Liz Garcia and Sheryl Katz one each. The team played with concentration and intensity, looking very good. Union beat Hartwick to the ball and executed some very good passing. The defense played exceptionally well, and the score was tied for most of the game. The JY squad played well, but lost 2-5 to a more ex- perienced Hartwickteam. Lynn Pietrocola scored both goals in this game. Julie Miller received the Athletic Promise Award which is presented to the un- derclassman (.Julie is a sophomore) who has shown the most promise in the area of women's sports. Julie is Union's number one women's tennis player and a starter at center on the basketball team. The past two seasons she posted the best overall performance of a Union tennis player in the NYS Tournament. This year in basketball Julie scored 229 points and pulled down 178 rebounds. She was voted Most Improved Player for the '82 Congratulations go to Marabeth, Julie, Holly, and Carol for their strength and spirit as w~men athletes! Kathy Kozera in a show of aggression The final varsity record is 3-9 while JV is 5-5. The overall leading scorer is Holly Howard with 34 goals. Sheryl Katz has 14, Emily Monosson 9; Liz Garcia 6, and Debbie Goldberg 1. Johanna Briggs had 162 saves throughout the course of the season and was an iqstrwnental part of the team. The best games of the season were played against Williams, Middlebury and Hartwick. Coach Marty Morrison has seen improvement throughout the season, and she believes Union had a very strong team with a lot .of skill at the end of the season. The team was heavily laden with injuries tbroughout the season and were missing one or two starting players for many games. This fact definitely hurt the team's progress. Marty also remarked that the JV team was the strongest that · we have ever had. She was pleased with the season as a whole and said the girls did a fine job. Track Finished, For Now By JANICE GLIDDEN Sports Staff The women's track team ended its season May 1 & 2 at St. John's University, the host of this year's AlA W state meet. Danielle Cherniak, who par- ticipated in the lOk on Saturday, now ranks second in Division III colleges of New York State. Janice Glidden competed in the heptathlon over the two-day period and placed fourth overall with 3714 points. Although only two women took part in the state meet, the season was very successful.· The women's track team has only existed as of last year, and since then Gonsiderable improvement has since been made in all areas. Russ Ebbets was ap- pointed full time coach of both the women and men this past fall. Also, the new track facilities have generated an increasing nwnber of team members showing much promise. However, depth, an important consideration in track and field competition, hurt the team a great deal. In spite of the lack of depth, the women showed many teams that a small team of quality runners and field competitors is better than a huge half-hearted . one. The women have a lot to boast of, after only two years. In a few more years-LOOK OUT! You'll be hearing a great deal of this team in the future. So ends another track season. TAKE CREDIT FOR THE PERFECT SUMMER CHOICE The Cornell University Summer Session offers you a unique opportunity to enrich your academtc program while you enjoy New York State's beautiful Finger Lakes region. At Cornell you can fulfill requirements, accelerate your degree program, or simply take t~e courses that you've always had to put off. As a Cornell summer student you can enjoy a remarkable variety of courses and learning experiences in an environme~t of l~kes, p~rks, r~vin.e~, and . . waterfalls. Ithaca itself is a small cosmopolitan c1ty set 1n a magmf1cent, vaned countryside that offers water sports, winery tours, climbing and camping, summer theater, soaring and biking, birding and hiking .... Call or write for program details and see for yourself why Cornell is ~~~~~L, the place to invest your summer for the best return. ~• Tuition is $145 per credit hour. CORNELL UNIVERSITY SUMMER SESSION B-12G IVES HALL ITHACA, N.Y. 14853 607-256-4987 BE IN THE FOREFRONT OFTODAY'S TECHNOLOGY ASAN AIR FORCE ENGINEER Our engineering officers are planning and designing tomorrow's weapon systems today. Many are seeing the~ ideas and concepts materialize. They have the finest, state-of- the-art equipment to test their theories. The working environment is conducive to research. And Air Force experience is second to none. You can be part of this dynamic team if you have an engineeting degree. Your frrst step will be Officer Training· School. Help· us shape our future as we help you start yours. Be an engineering officer in the Air Force. Contact your Air Force recr:uiter at 518-472-4484:, SSgt. Mike Bobrinitz. Call Collect. A Qreatwayoflife. 0 0 ..c 0. Q <}) Holly f Four honored Prize D1 Saturda: each SJ Weeken1 Union s1 were G1 Melena, John M• Georg of New Sandy Williim Trophy, male 1 ability, achieve! sports. Ober! starter 1 and at~ basebat: Obersta Easter1 Confere the safe of the I two sea Bruce major, Plumb Let Contin1 Durha11 home Per hap season, have VI losses. good g: goals. when~ ball. ' player! and M1

0 0 ..c c. Cl <f) OONOORDIENSIS, May 13? 198S Page 15 Athlete of the Week By MIKE SHARP .Sports Staff Holly Howard, a junior at- taokman on the women's lacrosse team, has won the Athlete of the Week honors. Holly Howard in action versus Middlebury. As a freshman Holly scored thirty-seven goals to set a Union College record. As a sophomore she garnered MVP honors while breaking her own goal record by putting forty-four in the net. Student-Athletes Ho.nored ByCNB Four male athletes were honored at the College's annual Prize Day ceremonies held last Saturday. Prize Day is held each spring during Parent's Weekend te honor outstanding Union students. Those honored were George Oberstadt, Bruce Melena, Mike Saccocio, and John Montanile. George.Oberstadt, a graduate of Newtown High School in Sandy Hook, CT., won the William A. Pike Memorial Trophy, presented to a junior male athlete for attitude, ability, participation and achievement in intercollegiate sports. Oberstadt is a two-year starter on Union's football team and a three-year starter for the baseball squad. This past fall Oberstadt was elected to the Eastern College Athletic Conference's All-Star squad as the safety. He has been captain of the baseball team the past two seasons. Bruce Melena, an economics major, won the Ronald F.· Plumb Memorial Prize, Lacrosse Continued from page 16 Durham. He ended his last home game with five goals. Perhaps had he been healthy all season, the Dutchmen could have won some of their close losses. Marc Marro also bad a good game as he netted three goals. He is always a threat when he has possession of the ball. Two other consistent players for Union, Chris Davis and Marc Ehudin, each had a presented annually to the senior member of the varsity :footb~ll team who best exemplifies the qualities and characteristics .of Ronald F. Plumb, Class of 191!0. Melena, a former All•Leag:ue offensive and defensive lineman at Oneida High School, is a fenr- year varsity letterwianer for the. Dutchmen grid squad. A captain of last year's 4-4-1 team, Melena received honorable mention honors to the Eastern College Athletic ConferencE's All-Star squad in 1960.. He played defensive end for Union. Mike SaccoQio, a graduate .of Schahnont High School where he was a two-year Colon:ial Council All-Star, won the FI·ed W. Bruhn award, presented to the member of the varsity baseball team who has ml!de the greatest contribution in terms of inspir.ational leadership, sportsmanship, team and college loyalty, and service as a player. Captain of the 1982 squad, Saccocio was voted the team's MVP following his sophomore seasin in which he led five of nine offensive statistics and was runnerup in the remaining fol!r. • • • pair of goals. Ehudin will l>e a big help in filling the missing spots at attack when Durh:am and Wright leave. On Tuesday, the Dutchmen faced Albany State in the last game of their season. The seore was Wlavailable at press time. Look in next week's issue for details of the Albany game m~d a season wrap up. A three-year starter, Saccocio has been on the Dean's List for his entire collegiate career. This year he was nominated for Academic All-American con- sideration. John Montanile, a graduate of Quaker Valley High School where he lettered in basketball, football, track and golf, won the William B. Jaffe Medal, presented to the senior male athlete voted by the Athletic Department to be the out- standing athlete of the year, taking into account the character and motivation of the individual in addition to athletic excellence. Montanile was a fol.lf-year starter for the Dutchmen basketball team. He had his best season during-1931-82 with 301 points and 195 rebounds as Union posted a 13-11 record. His 847 career points puts him in tenth place on the all-time Union scoring list. A two-year president of the Block U Society, Union's var- sity club, Montanile won the William A. Pike Memorial Trophy last year as the out- standing junior male athlete. UNION p or T FREE FILMS!!! May 19th in HU019 at a p.m.: May 27th in Stage II at B p.m.: 11 The Brooklyn Bridge,. Academy Award Winner for Best Documentary Sponsored by the Department of the Arts Admission is iree All are invited to attend As a junior, .even though she missed a game and played mostly injured, she still was the team's leading scorer with thirty-three goals. After her third year Holly has an amazing one hundred and fourteen goals. Last week the women's lacrosse team wrapped up their season with their last three games. For the week, Holly had fourteen goals. The team finished 3-9 and had a total of sixty-three goals, thirty-three of which were Holly's. This past Saturday, Holly won the ECAC Medal of Merit which goes to the junior female athlete who has combined excellence on the field and in the classroom. In addition, Holly qualified for the New York State Women's Lacrosse Association All-8tar Team, due · to her performance at try-outs last weekend. She will compete on the central region team this Saturday and Sunday at Hofstra University. Holly is the first Union woman to make this team. In addition to playing lacrosse, Holly has played field h9ckey at Union. Holly is an economics major from Hart- ford, Connecticut. She attended Kingswood-Oxford Prep School where she earned the · Out- standing Women's Athlete award. At Kingswood-Oxfor~ whe was MVP of the field hockey team and was a three- year starter on lacrosse. Congratulations to Holly Howard and the best of luck to her and the Women's Lacrosse team for next year's season. Game, Set, Season ByS.E. Sports Staff The men's tennis season ended on a very sour note last week, as it dropped its last two matches, 6-3 at Middlebury, and 5-4 at Binghamton. However, there was considerable im- provement over last year's 4-7 record. At Middlebury, Rich Molot and DaVid Katz were the only bright spots, both winning their singles matches. Molot's win resulted from a brilliant display of top-spin backhands, coupled with the unique Molot courtside manner. Molot again proved successful as he and his part- ner, Dan Stewart, won in their second doubles match. The team seemed to miss number one s.ingles Dwight Moore who was sick and could not play. At Binghamton, Union again could only manage two singles wins out of six matches and even though the team won two out of three doubles, Binghamton still prevailed 5-4. Rich Molot, by far the team's toughest player, and Steve Eskenazi, won their singles matches. Doubles teams of Steve Eskenazi and Collin Greene, David Katz and his partner Patalita were winning combinations, But, Ricky Molot and partner Dan Stewart lost a heartbreaking 6-3 third set- breaking the tie and handing the victory over to the Binghamton squad. The team is looking forward to a brighter future as all the members will be returning next year. Intramural Softball A League Softball Div. II Holy Trogans Div.l PB Clam Divers Beavers 5-1 Mike Cantor Mem. Sigma Chi 4-1 Softball Club ' ZBT 4-1-1 Mondaud and Co. Dipsticks 3-l-l Mike's Dogs Phi Sig Red 2-3 ZBT l FigiA 2-4 Delta Chi DU Devils 1-4 Cleats .of Torus 0-6 Div. Ill The Runs The Goon Squad Div. II Figi B TDChi 5-0 Pl:li Delta Theta Rookies 4-l Beta Bombers B D Chi Rookies 4-2 The Mutes Chi Psi A 3-3 Sigma Chi Comm. Faculty 2-3 DU Dogs 2-3 Div.IV Aces • 1-5 Sigma Chi Blue Beta Bombers 1-5 Saratoga T&L Independents Delta Phi II 8 League Softball 1st Fox South Paws 3rd Fox North II Div.l Green Acres 4-1 Div. V Homers 4-1 Fly Balis Psi U 4-1 Sigma Phi Fear of Music 2-1 Beer Bellies · Southerners 1-3 Astra-blasters D X Bailers 0-4 Phi Sig Beer 3rd Fox North 0-5 K Sig Agents of Mu Empire See Election Statements Pages 10-12 4-0 3-0 3-1 2·3 1-3 1-3 0-4 4-0 3-1 3-1 2-2 :il-3 1-3 0-5 5-0 3-2 2-1 1·1-1 1-2 0-3-1 0-4 4-1 3- 1 2-2 2-2 2-3 l-3 1-3

Page 16 CONCORDIENSlS~ May 13, 1982 ' ' . ' ' .. : ~ ' ; ' : ' • • • • • '< ' • ' • ' : • ~ ' ' • ' ~ 0 0 .!:. . a.. ~ c 0 '- 0 z D 0 ':!:: Mike Saccocio eying a p1 :chin the first Hobart game. Scoreboard Union 6 Union 17 Siena 14 Rochester 8 Hobart 8 Union 11 Hobart 19 Union 16 Middlebury 6 -Binghamton 5 Union 214 Baseba II ( 9-12) Lacrosse (4-ll) Tennis ( S-6) Golf( 6-2) Albany 5 Albany 6 Union 2 Union 4 Union2 Hobart3 Union4 Colgate 12 Union 3 Union 4 Middlebury 260 By SCO'ITWYKOFF Sports Staff The hard-hitting Union baseball team ended its last full week of play with an overall · record of 9•12 and a 3-3 mar-It for the week. The Dutchmen ended their regular season last Tuesday with a doubleheader at Hartwick. / Union started off well a week .ago Tuesday as they swept a doubleheader with Capital District rival Albany. Senior righty Paul McGrath upped his season mark to three wins and two losses with the victory over Albany State. Junior first baseman Joe Clinton got the game winner in the seventh as he blasted his first homerun of the season. The Dutchmen came back to rout the Danes in the second game 16-6. Junior Andy Dreher had the hot bat for the Garnet as he got his second homerun of the season in the nightcap win. Union took a three-game winning streak to Siena a week ago Wednesday for· a night game with a team that gave the Dutchmen a lot of trouble earlier in the season. Siena is a club that Union could not afford to fall behind to as they have a very strong pitching staff. Union did just that, falling behind early, and went on to lose to the tough Div. I squad, 14-2. Dick Sakala's 8-10 squad returned home Thursday for a single game with rival Rochester. Joe Wood pitched Lacrosse Scoops Win l 0 - 0 By DON BEALL Sports Staff The Dutchmen downed Colgate 16-12 on a rainy Parent's Weekend after a tough loss to a perennial top-ranked Hobart team. Union stayed even with a strong Hobart team for the first quarter of the game, however the tables turned in the second quarter as Hobart outscored Union 8-1. Union didn't seem to have much hope as the second half began. The Union defense played well as they held Hobart to four goals in the third quarter while Hobart's defense shut the Dutchmen out .for the entire quarter. In the fourth quarter, Hobart outscored Union again, this time only by 5-3. Other than .!:. a. 0 VI the second and third quarters, Union played well against this powerhouse. Led by tri-captains John Mercer and Dana Johnson, the defense played well. Charlie Freni and Ben Maynard played good man down defense; Maynard looked especially good on the ctears. Hobart had 19 goals, however this doesn't seem too bad when you realize that they took 88 shots. Union took only 16 shots but had six goals which is a better per- centage than Hobart who was cranking away. The Dutchmen were paced by lead scorer Sean Durham with four goals--and an assist. Ehudin and Wright added Union's other two goals. Hobart's \big guns\ were Darcangelo with five goals Ben Maynard clearing the ball against Hobart. and Grimaldi with four goals. The rest of their scoring was evenly spread throughout the team which is a sign of a .strong team. The laxmen..:.came back strong after the Hobart loss as they beat Colgate 16-1.2. This was an especially nice win because it was Parent's Weekend, and it was also the last home game for the seniors. Once again, Union played their opponents even for the first quarter. The Dutchmen began taking control in the second half (6-4, 4-3). They controlled and moved the ball well. The defense turned in a nice performance, as well as the offense. The offense was once again led by tri-captain Sean Continued on page 15 Even· for the Week eight strong innings .for Union but didn't have enough for the ninth as Roch.este·r collected four runs and went on to win 8-4. Junior Ed Moriarty had a fine day both behind the plate and at bat for Union. Ed always seems to play well against Rochester as last year he hit an HR to beat Rochester. . After a day off on Friday the Dutchmen hosted Hobart for two games at Central Park on Saturday. Errors plagued Union in the first game as they lost to the Statesmen 8-2. Senior Paul McGrath's record dropped to 3·3 as he went the distance. McGrath pitched a fine game but was hurt by untimely errors and sleeping Garnet bats. Both Tim Alibozek and Joe Clinton hit the ball well in the 8-4 loss. Alibozek got two hits in his first two at bats while Clinton doubled to the wall in the second inning. Alibozek has done a fine job as leadoff man this year. Going into the Hobart twin-bill he was hitting at a .320 clip while getting 20 trips to first base due to walks. Union woke their bats up in the.second game to rout Hobart by a count of 11-3. Sophomore lefty Dave Packer got the win in the last home game of the season for Union. .Packer's 'season mark going into the Hartwick game was a fine two wins, two losses and two saves. Dave was a pleasant surprise this year as he consistently got the ball over. the plate while holding an ERA of under 3.85. Going into the Hobart do·ubleheader the Dutchmen had a team batting average of just over .300 .(and .315 for the nine regulars). Both Andy Dreher and Mike Saccocio have been the money men at the plate for coach Sakala. After 19 games, Saccocio led the GarneUn hitting at ·.460. (24 lb, 4 2b and one triple with 16 walks). Mike is also the team leader in steals as he has swiped 17 bases this year without being caught once. !Jso a very sound centerfielder, Saccocio didn't have an error in the first 19 games'of the season. Leftfielder Andy Dreher has been hitting ·the cover off the ball all season and after 19 games he was hitting at a .380 clip. Dreher leads Union in homers with two and is second on the team with 16 RBI's. An excellent outfielder, Andy has the best arm on the team and has held many opposing run- ners from advancing all season. Joe- Clinton. making ~ne of hfs two sensational pl_ays in the fl;~t. inning .of the second Hobart game. Track in.- States ByD.D. Sports Staff On May 7 and 8 the Union College men's varsity track team hosted the New York State Track and Field Cham- pionships. Fredonia State was crowned team champion of the meet and several state meet records were broken. Union improved greatly upon its performance of a year ago. The Dutchmen compiled seven points, six more than in 1981. Four Dutchmen achieved personal bests, which enabled them to earn state meet medals. Dennis Contois led the Dut- chmen with a folirth place finish in the 800 meter. Contois turned in a serie~ of impressive times on his way to capturing .fourth. The slender junior ran 1 :57.7 in the trials and 1:54.9 in the semi- finals on Friday night .. Then he came back on Saturday and turned in a personal best time of 1:54.6 to notch fourth. Ed Arnheiter ran a personal best in the 3000 meter steeplechase for a sixth place finish. Arnheiter ran a sizzlj,ng 9:40.7. Two other ' Dutchmen finished among the top six in the state: Chris Howd earned a point for a sixth place finish in the javelin by hurling a personal best toss of 184'2\ while Gary Wenner took sixth and tied a personal best effort in the pole vault with a jump of 13'0\. Other Union athletes who turned in fine performances but were unable to score were: Ken Holman, who recorded his best mark in the 400 intermediate hurdles with a ~:..._.... of 58.0; Dave Dellehunt, who ran 1:59.3 in the 800 meter .run; Bob Stelmack and Scott Buffington, who both competed in the 400 meter dash, running 52.9 and 54.4, respectively. Also com- peting for the Dutchmen were: Mark Dunn in the discus (119'11\) Brad Kline in the hammerthrow (no mark), Bob Bertagna in the triple jwnp (42'1\) and Bill Lichtman in the javelin (16J'l0\). The Track- men would like to thank all the individuals who turned out to support them throughout this past season. SPORT~ HAPPENINGS May 13-20 Rugby Track May 15 at RPI May 15 Rochester lnvy 1:00 0 +- 0 J: a.. c 0 +- 1... 0 z ..0 0 0:: - ex - 1... (J.) '' ·,:· ~ Iilli co u (\1 c: co I >- .0~ 0 I'I\F''' ~ J,:lt Ne c .A Bel Sm Col cor um thE bet Un ori ant Te' Re M~ Pr Ac COl pr ac ffil we de th: (F m: (F co M sy pr bE m \4 ' C; c~ a I A B 0 tt pl e, 01 T st

I 0 0 .c: c. c: 0 - ... 0 z .!:I 0 0::: (I) c: ill ., >- .0 0 0 a CXl, No. 24 Newly-elected Student Forum President Ilene Landress 1877 Landress Takes Ra c ?.( to.) By A.J. BRODSKY Ed.ltor-in-Cblef fiene Landress was elected to the position of Student Government Association President in a nmoff contest held this .past Monday. Lan- dress is the first women to assume the position in the College's history. Landress and David Wollin, her runoff competitor, were the two top vote getters in the preliminary race last Friday. Because no candidate received a majority percentage of votes on Friday, election procedures called for a rematch of the two top winners. (\) ..... 0 j..aws. §n~res. sf . · ommJiy m tb~ Political debate h~ last Tbursda , t the ~La · would be comp the nineteenth week ·Of next yt ... r or sooner. If not, the newly elected President promised to volun- tarily resign from her position. Campus Violence Studied Joining Lnadress on th~ Student Forum will be Laurence Castelli as Vice President of Administration; Barton Levine, Vice President of Finance; Randall Grady, Stephen Nowak and Mary Martin, Senior Class Representatives; Melissa VigHelmo, Junior Trustee; James Danzinger, Gary Lehr and Barbara Rogers, JW1ior Class Representatives; and Shari Midoneck, Steven ·Benson and Robin Weiner as Sophomore Class Represen- tatives. Runoffs were necessary for the positions of Vice President of Finance, Senior Class Representatives and Sophomore Class Represen· tatives. Landress also hopes to get the student population more in- volved in activities. Tbrough the Committee on Committees, she wants to encourage people to \show up to activities meeting_, e· · \' j·f formally rejected frc;; ~ ..:rlicipatiob.'' Landress poi:.::'\·~ out that on such organiz·d, as as the Social and Concert Committees, many are productive despite the fact that they were not selected to sit By DAVID WOLLIN Contributor · A study entitled \Aggression Between Men and Women at a Small, Private, Liberal Arts College\ has recently been completed by two Union College undergraduates, and explores the prevalence of viole.nce between men and women on the Union campus. The survey was originally written, distributed and analyzed during the Winter Term by the Methods of Social Research class taught by Martha Huggins, Assistant Professor of Sociology. According to a previous Con- cordiensis article, ''The term project was designed to acquaint students with the methods of research while working on a topic that they deemed important and wor· thy.\ This term, David Wollin (Political Science-Sociology major) and Winthrop Thurlow (Political Science major) have compiled the data from the Methods class into one large systematic report in order to present it to interested mem- bers of the faculty, ad· ministration, and student body. A 1981 Time magazine article, \Socko Performances on Campus,\ served as the initial catalyst for the study. The article, which cited studies at Ari2ona State University, Bemidji State University, Oregon State University, and the University of Florida, provided tl}f. only empirical evidenc~·,· r con~·erning violence on Amed¢an·college campuses. The . Oregon State University study \estimated the nuniber of violent lovers at about 25 per- cent.\ Professor Mary Riege Laner notes that over 60 percent of non-married upper-class students at Arizona State University have been exposed to some sort of violence in a dating situation. While the majority of violent acts are relatively minor, threats with knives and guns have been reported. The leading causes of violence between the college students in these studies appear to be jealousy and arguments concerning sex and drinking. Feelings of powerlessness may also motivate some individuals to \show (their) power against someone who can't retaliate.\ Most of these college students are unwilling to admit having been the victims of violence. While the previous studies on aggression have pertained to large, academic institutions, no research has been conducted to date which deals with violence between couples at a small, private, liberal arts college. _ The Union study examines this setting in order to determine if differences exist in the amount pf violence between these two environments. A random number of students were chosen to which to solicit the 389 . questionnaires, from a list of mailbox nwnbers (only full· time undergraduates); 124 questionnaires were completed and returned (31.16 percent return rate) . . In order to discuss the various levels of violence engaged in by students, it was necessary to divide them into four categories: Moderate acts I.E.F. ANNOUNCES PROPOSAL DEADLINE The deadline for proposals to ~e. Internal Educati~n Foun- dation in two categories-student-mttlated research proJects and ''educationally innovative projects''--falls on June 4. Notification for awards in both categories should occur by June 18. The deadline applies to proposals for projects to be un- dertaken during the summer, as well as the fal~ tenn. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a facUlty advisor who has. agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submttted to the Dean's Office (SlOO, Sdence & Engineering Building) on forms available there. -· . Similarly, members_ of t~~College communt~Y who have \educationally innovatlve\pro.posals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. are ~v~ble in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about I.E.F., the g~delines, or ~he proposal deadline should be directed to the AssiStant to the V1ce President for Academic Affairs. · (push; shove; slap; throw things at someone); Moderate Threats (threaten to push, shove, slap, throw things at someone); severe acts (kick- bite; punch; hit with an 0 bj ect; beat up; attack with a knife- gun; force to have sex; sexual assault); and severe threats (threaten to kick-bite, punch, hit with an ol;!ject, beat up, attack with a knife-gun, force to have sex, sexual assault). Overall, 104 acts or threats of violence were reported by the 124 students in our study. The highest percentage of students involved in violence were those individuals who were threatened with severe acts (19.4 percent); the threat of moderate acts was only 17.7 Continued on page 2 Landress looks back on the election with both satisfaction and annoyance. She was disappointed in the low runoff voter turnout. Landress believed this CCluld have been alleviated by better \Clrganization\ on the part of the Elections Committee. On a more positive note, the new President looks forward to working with the '82-'83 Forum members. \There is a good mix of new blood and old ex- perience,'' added Landress. Landress has set a number of immediate goals for herself and the Forum. Central to her plans is the education of all members in proper procedure. To ac- complish this, Landress sees the necessity fClr concrete on that committee. Landress sees the need for good relations with the soon-to· be selected Dean of Students. The new President also feels that the offices of Student Affairs·and Residence Life need to be \better integrated.\ When confronted with ohe question concerning precedents set by this year's Forum regarding organization leaders, Landress responded that the Forum \is responsible for overseeing the heads of ac- tivities.\ But, adds the new President, \these heads should clean house within their organization, the Forum should't.\ Landress believes that this rule should hold fast except in cases of extraordinary circumstances. For, a statistical breakdown of selected races, see page 3. Renovation Scheduled By DOUG LANDON News Editor A program of renovation and reorganization of offices within Silliman Hall and the Administration Building will take place during the summer. An annual review of campus needs has determined, among other things, that a ''more functional and efficient ad· ministrative facility\ is needed at Union, according to Director of Campus Planning Mr. Jack Litynski. Because of a growing concern for access for the handicapped and provisions for Federal funds stipulating that such accommodations must be made, college administrators see a need to provide easier methods of access to such areas as Health Services, the Cashier's window and the Registrar's Office. Since the Cashier primarily deals with students, and the other offices presently oc- cupying the Administration Building serve mostly visitors, Trustees and faculty who enter through the west entrance off. South Terrace, the Cashier's Office will be moved to the Library Lane side. A ramp and handicapped bathroom facility will be located there. At that point, other administrative offices, including those of Executive Associate to the President Jack Maranville, Assistant to the Vice President For Academic Affairs Dwight Wolf, and a secretary to President Morris will be located near the front of the Administration Building. This action will displace the Registrar's Office, and a space bank study of three years ago recommended it be moved to Silliman Hall. This and the entire Silliman renovation program was approved at the last Board of Trustees meeting. Health Services will . be reorganized to occupy only the second floor, and Personnel will move up one flight from the basement to share the first floor with the Registrar. Litynski plans on an \open office land- scape\ on that level, where the Personnel and Registrar staffs will share a centralized area divided by mobile partitions. Calvin Schmidt, Registrar, and George Richards, Director of Personnel, will have private offices. An elevator and handicapped access lift from the outside Library Lane face will be in- stalled at Silliman. The basement of the building will house stor~~ for the Registrar's Office, a bathroom for the handicapped, and another office yet undecided and which might .even be Litynski's. The Photo Club will also be relocated. Utynski points out that little change will ·take place in the facades of the two structures. He hopes to have most of the work completed, at least to the degree that the offices will be operational, by September. The time period is long between order and delivery of equipment for the handicapped, which could delay things somewhat. Litynski also mentions that a few slight changes may be made in the plans, because the work will be done only with the concurrence of the staff and officials involved in. the tran- sition. . . •. ,f:lfr\ffl' Sc:hedule p. 4 fl:~zH'ugh ludl.ow .. Se<:t i<>n pp. () ... 7 Editorials \PP· s .. 9 Nottices p. 1 4

Page 2 CONCORDIEN~IS~ May SO, 198! . Aggression Findings Continued from page l• percent. There was, in fact, a slightly higher percentage ( 18.5 percent} reporting moderate acts as compared to moderate threats. One may speculate that when students feel the need to threaten a Lember of the op- (X>Site sex, a larger percentage of tl:!~nk s~~ .. ,the conventional ,~es, of lhi'eat~ning to push, ·: · ;s,fuS\ve· 'e~c. as ·':.1-J:,teffect.ive; ':\<.il\'ence ~t:he mor.e ··.extreme ' .. , • .., threats of beating ·up_, forciRg ~ Y,' someone to have sex, for .. example,· might achieve the desired goals that moderate · • threats,could not. .r Moreover, 18.5 percent of the \:<students indicated that they · ~ngaged in moderate acts of violence as compared to 16.9 percent in severe acts. These data would suggest that students are more eager to undertake acts of moderate v,iolence in place of severe acts, despite the prevalence of threats of the latter. One possible reason for the preference for moderacy of acts may be the fear of criminal prosecut ion or serious, per- manent physical harm to the victim as a result of the use of severe violence. The Union study tested various hypotheses ( depen- dence, svcial isolation, resource possessi-on, academic stress) in order to determine if any relationship existed between these variables and an increase in the tendency to commit acts or threats of violence. For in- stance, those students who spend a frequent amount of time .. with a member of the opposite sex in a considerable numbe(: of activities, and have many crucial decisions made by that same person, are more likely t() commit acts or threats of m()derate and severe violence; hence, dependence as a function of close association and reliance on decisions seems to lead to violence between college couples. One may speculate that the nature of the relationship led to physical threats or acts. A dependent person may, for example, feel trapped, and consequently use violence as a means of escape. Furthermore, violence may occur when the partner in a dependent relationship does not live up to the expectations of the dependent individual. A very plausible explanation may also be that the dependent person is jealous of the partner's ability to do as he-she pleases (freedom), while the former individual is restrained and must rely on their boyfriend- girlfriend. Social Isolation (few if any dates per month, involvement in few campus organizations, and feelings of alienation) appears to increase violence only among male students, while female students who are more socially active tend to be the m()re aggressive member of their sex. With regard to men, one may speculate that when pfaced in a social situation, isolates are not able to handle themselves or relate to others; consequently violence may result. Moreover, the isolate may use violence as a result of his anger with society for not being accepted and being forced into isolation. For non-isolated women, they may engage in violence because they come into contact with a greater number of people than the isolate, thus increasing the opportunities for conflict.. Non-isolation may also bring an individual into many different situations, producing pressure, frustrations and failures; any one of. which could lead to violence. The data in the study neither refute nor sustain the idea that the fewer the monetary and academic rewards (i.e. low grade .point average) an in- dividual possesses, the greater is his-her tendency to commit acts or threats of violence. One may speculate that violence occurs regardless of the possession of resources, and may result from the context in which the student finds him- herself. Moreover, the key te the resource hypothesis may be the quality of possessions rather than quantity, or quantity in comparison to other in- dividuals. Violence as a function of academic stress (whether the student's parents put pressure on him-her to do well academically, and the response to the following statement, \Most of the time., I feel that I have enough time to get all of my school work d~me\) appears . to provide the most conclusive findings. The data suggest that as real and perceived academic pressure increases, acts and threats of Violence between college couples become more prevalent. One may speculate that the pressures to succeed academically, often exacer- bated by the strain parents exert on a student, may result in violent actions or threats. Vielence may also occur when students see their peers suc- ceeding, while they struggle to complete their work in the allotted time. Furthermore, the· use of moderate and severe violence may be as a result of retaliation for academic failure, or as punishment for a partner's success. Although some of the hypotheses studied violence as a function of individual per- sonality characteristics, the research appears to suggest that group context plays a greater role than personality in determining aggressive behavior. For example, violence most often occurred in a \party\ atmosphere. In addition, violence is most often taking place in Greek organizations and college dormitories, the primary areas in which large numbers of students congregate. Also addressed was the sex of the person against whom people had seen violence committed. 23.4 percent claimed to have seen violence committed against a woman, 16.1 percent saw violence committed against a man, and 15.3 percent saw violence committed against both a man and a woman. Although this upholds the commonly held conception that women are most .often the victims of vi()lence, the per- centage of students seeing violence against men is significant to warrant the conclusion that victimization is not strictly a female problem. Over 50 percent of the respondents who had seen violence did not report it. Low reporting of incidents was also noted among people wl'lo had been victims of violent acts. The most common reason given for not reporting the violence was that the people did not feel that the \act was significant enough\ to report. In the rare cases when violence was reported, there did not seem to be any consensus with respect to whom the act should be reported. Respondents who had seen violence reported it to a variety of individuals and places (all in low percentages): Pesident advisor;. campus security; faculty; Conduct Committee; friend; relative; parent; campus counseling. Among victims of violence, there was again no general consensus as to whom violence whould be reported. When asked hypothetically in the questionnaire whether they would report a violent act or threat if they saw one, 50 per- cent of the students indicated they would, 4 percent said they would not report the incident, and 33 percent did not know what they would do. Most people claimed that if they witnessed a violent act, they would report it to a resident ad:visor ( 15 percent), campus security 04.5 percent), friend ( 11 .percent), or a dean (7 percent). Choices such as the city police, Conduct Committee, infirmary, and YMCA Battered Women's Shelter were chosen rather infrequently. ln conclusion, the Union study recommended, \lt is our belief that the c()llege should increase its e£forts to impress upon the student body the importance of reporting acts of violence. At the same time, a well defined network of referral serrvices must be outlined by the ad- ministration. While we do believe that the essential ser- vices do exist both on the college campu~ and in the Schenectady community to help the victim of violence, these services are, for the mo11t part, unknown to- the average student. Only through -increased awareness of both the gravity of the situation and the services available to the victim, can the problem of violence between men and women at Union College be overcome.\ FOX/DAVIDSON Next Week's Concordiensis is the ,, d 11 Biock F11n foo Party'' Last Issue of the Year tJeer 3:30 ilfllstC Friday. _May 21. 1st ANNUAL I.F.C. SPRING PARTY SUNDAY, MAY 23 At the Girling Center (Bus transportation provided) All Union Students Welcome -TWO LIVE BANDS-- Featuring: .The Targets and the Kidz Tickets: $2.00 at Student Activities -FREE BEER ALL DAY LONG - •. GrUis & Charcoal Provided- Bring your own food LITE BEER FROM MILLER TUG-0-WAR Entry forms avail.able at Student Activities Sponsored by the Inter-Fraternity Council Everything you always wanted ina beer. And less. AVAILABLE IN STRIPES, SOLIDS, AND TRIMS MEN'S MARTIN SANDS WOMEN'S ~ $19 ' Phone (6423) ~ $18 I• - Be1 of ·tl ProtE will t the s the Cenh p.m. Schal on tt Park Proc< A sena Stanc serv~ En vi respc majc envh fore~ majc Adir< Ad corn cons mee1 form ternc inf01 20 a, la w a' er 1; '1: w tic w st w sc Tl w E g; w 2U e1 31

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, May SO, 1982 ;-,~~- . ...... . '• .. , .. Aggression Findings .. -·-, •-. ... . . . . \· SEt!ECl'~D RESULTS -()F'S~G.A~ ELECTIONS ;~f'Pru,t.leJ,\t(;p~), .· Continued from page I. percent. There was, in fact, a slightly higher percentage (18.5 percent) reporting moderate acts as compared to moderate threats. One may speculate ti;Jat when students feel the need to threaten a 1 .ember of the @p- posite sex, a larger percelltage of t he.m s~e the conventional mi:>iles of thr\eatening to push, .strove, etc. as ·ineffective; ., h\ence :the more extreme - threats of beating up, forcing someone to have sex, for example, m~ght achieve the desired gea1s that moderate threats could not. MoreGver, 18.5 percent of the students indicated that they · engaged in moderate acts of violence as compared to 16.9 percent in severe acts. These data would suggest that students are more eager to undertake acts of moderate violence in place of severe acts. despite the prevalence of threats of the latter. One possible reason for the preferef!ce for moderacy of acts may be the fear of criminal prosecution or serious, per- manent physical harm to the victim as a result of the use of severe violence. The Union study tested various hypotheses ( depen- dence, social isolation, resource possession, academic stress) in order to determine if any relationship existed between these variables and an increase in the tendency to commit acts or threats of violence. For in- stance, those students who spend a frequent amount of time _with a member of the opposite sex in a considerable number of activities, and have many crucial decisions made by that same person, are more likely to commit acts or threats of moderate and severe violence; hence, dependence as a function of close association and reliance on decisions seems to lead to violence between college couples. One may speculate that the nature of the relationship led to physical threats or acts. A dependent person may, for example, feel trapped, and consequently use violence as a means of escape. Furthermore, violence may occur when the partner in a dependent relationship does not live up to the expectations of the dependent individual. A very plausible explanation may also be that the dependent person is jealous of the partner's ability to do as he-she pleases (freedom), while the former individual is restrained and must rely on their boyfriend- girlfriend. Social Isolation (few if any dates per month, involvement in few campus organizations, and feelings of alienation) appears to increase violence only among male students, while female students who are more socially active tend to be the more aggressive member of their sex. With regard to men, one may speculate that when p(aced in a social situation, isolates are not able to handle themselves or relate to others; consequently violence may result. Moreover, the isolate may use violence as a result of his anger with society for not being accepted and being forced into isolation. For non-isolated women, they may engage in violence because they come into contact with a greater number of people than the isolate, thus increasing the opportunities for conflict. Non-isolation may also bring an individual into many different situations, producing pressure, frustrations and failures; any one of which could lead to violence. The data in the study neither refute nor sustain the idea that the fewer the monetary and aeadrrni(· rrwards li.e. low grade point average) an in- dividual possesses, the greater is his-her tendency to commit acts or threats of violence. ORe may speculate that violence occurs regardless of the possession of resources, aNd may result from the context in which the student finds him- herself. Moreover, the key to the resource hypothesis may be the quality of possessions rather than quantity, or quantity in comparison to other in- dividuals. Violence as a function of academic stress (whether the student's parents put pressure on him-her to do well academically, and the response to the following statement, \Most of the time, I feel that I have enough time to get an of my school work done\ J appears to provide the most conclusive findings. The data suggest that as real and perceived academic pressure increases, acts and threats of violence between college co11ples become mGre prevalent. One may speculate that the pressures to succeed academically, often exacer- bated by the strain parents exert on a student, may result in violent actions or threats. Violence may also occur when students see their peers suc- ceeding, while they struggle to complete their work in the allotted time. Furthermore, the· use of moderate and severe violence may be as a result of retaliation for academic failure, or as punishment for a partner's success. Although some of the hypotheses studied violence as a function of individual per- sonality characteristics, the research appears to suggest that group context plays a greater role than personality in determining aggressive behavior. For example, violence most often occurred in a \party\ atmosphere. In addition, violence is most often taking place in Greek organizations and college dormitories, the primary areas in which large numbers of students congregate. Also addressed was the sex of the person against whom people had seen violence committed. 23.4 percent claimed to have seen violence committed against a woman, 16.1 percent saw violence committed against a man, and 15.3 percent saw violence committed against both a man and a woman. Although this upholds the commonly held conception that women are most often the victims of violence, the per- centage of students seeing violence against men is significant to warrant the conclusion that victimization is not strictly a female problem. Over 50 percent of the respondents who had seen violence did not report it. Low reporting of incidents was also noted among people who had been victims of violent acts. The most common reason given for not reporting the violence was that the people did not feel that the \act was significant enough\ to report. In the rare cases when violence was reported, there did not seem to be any consensus with respect to whom the act should be reported. Respondents who had seen violence reported it to a variety of individuals and places (all in low percentages): resident advisor; campus security; faculty; Conduct Committee; friend; relative; parent; campus counseling. Among victims of violence, there was again no general consensus as to whom violence whould be reported. When asked hypothetically in the questionnaire whether they would report a violent act or thrPat if they saw one, 50 per- cent of the students indicated they would, 4 percent said they would not report the incident, and 33 percent did not know what they would do. Most people claimed that if they witnessed a violent act, they would report it to a resident advisor ( 15 percent), campus security (14.5 percent), friend ( 11 percent), or a dean (7 percent). Choices such as the city police, Conduct Commitiee, infirmary, and YMCA Battered W0men's Shelter were chosen rather infrequently. In conclusion, the Union study recommended, \It is our belief that the college should increase its efforts to impress upon the student body the importance of reporting acts of violence. At the same time, a well defined network of referral serrvices must be outlined by the ad- ministration. While we do believe that the essential ser- vices do exist both <m the college campus and in the Schenectady community to help the victim of violence, these services are, for the most part, unknown to the average student. Only through increased awareness of both the gravity of the situation and the services available to tile victim, can the problem of violence between men and women at Union College be overcome.\ - . ,; ; - -, ·- . - ' . '• ~ - ~ .· ·· •.·· ···.· · .. ,;::n\'·· ,A;: ,;.,,Y¥~P~9.t'ii~t;;;(;pr,elbti-t .. Bai®~me{witmeJ~ ·· · , . . Be~~~~~'·,~:t· ··. · · \' ' · . ., < ·<8etJ.lt)rltepresentatlv«wtnnQff) Stll-ptm'l'Nowalti'(104') · · \ · \ · \'. · Mar~Martin'(W:illl$rf · c · &ttdal1:G$dy,fwbmet) . ~k M:'Ogllf; : ' . . .· ;'. . · rreneF~l4r.' · · ····· · ' .:_·, .··-;.,. .··Jmor·Trustee·(prelmbWry} : <W.Jt)·. . if' . FOX/DAVIDSON ' ... ,. ••·.'104 Q8 91 .·- ..,.·~. 75: 42-7 190 131 Next Week's Concordiensis is the d u Block Fnn foo Party'' last Issue of the Year }leer 3:30 Mnsic Friday, May 21 1st ANNUAL I.F.C. SPRING PARTY SUNDAY, MAY 23 At the Girling Center (Bus transportation provided) All Union Students Welcome -TWO LIVE BANDS- Featuring: The Targets and the Kidz Tickets: $2.00 at Student Activities -FREE BEER ALL DAY LONG - Grills & Charcoal Provided- Bring your own food UTE BEER FROM MILLER lUG-0-WAR Entry forms available at Student Activities Sponsored by the Inter-Fraternity Council Everything you always wanted ina beer. And less. AVAILABlE IN STRIPES, SOliDS, AND TRIMS MARTIN SANDS WOMEN'S Phone (6423) ~ $18 I. I. - Sl1 Bel of tl Prote will t the s the CentE p.m. Schal on tt Park Proc1 A sen a Stan< serv< En vi resp< majc en vir foreE maj€ A dirt Ad com cons meet forru term info1 20 G la w 8\ er Ll 7: w til w st w sc Tl w E g; w 2~ er a!

• OONOORDIENSIS, Ma'JJ 10, 198S ·smith to Speak Bernard C. Smith, chainnan of ·the Association for the Protection of the Adirondacks, will be the featured speaker at the second annual meeting of the Adirondack Research Center. His talk will be at 8:30 p.m. Friday, May 21, in the Schaffer Library Music Room on the topic \The Adirondack Park and the Leg·islative Process.\ A former New York State . senator, Smith chaired the Standing Committee on Con- servation, Recreation and the Environment and was responsible for the enactment of major legislation pratectmg the environment, wildlife, and the forest preserve. He played a major role in the creation ·of the Adirondack Park Agency. Adirondack Research Center committee members and consultants will hold a business meeting and attend an in- formation session in the af- ternoon. Guest speakers at the information session will be Theodore L. Hullar; director of research at Cornell University; Margaret O':Bri~n •.. director of the noted Loomis Collection at the Keene Valley Library; Bernard R. Carman, editor of Adirondack Life, and Gary Randorf, director of the Adirondack Council. HuUar O'Brien, and Carman are among the Research Center's 20 consultants. The Adirondack Research Center, established as a repository for · research materials on the Adirondacks, is located on the faurth floor of Schaffer Library and is Dpen to the public by appointment. SENIOR FLIN.G Tickets for Senior Fling 1982 will go on sal~ Thursday, May 20th at 1:30 p.m. in Carnegie Hall. Admission to :both the Lake George Boat Cruises and Thatcher Park Picnic is' $6.00. For all landlubbers, tickets for admission to Thatcher Park exclusively will be available for $3.00. Bus transportation will also be available to and from Thatcher Park for a fee of $2.00, providing enough people purchase tickets. Senior Fling commences Wednesday evening, June 9th, with a Lake George Cruise on the Ticonderoga. Boarding time will be- 1: 30 for the two-hour excursion. Music will be provided by WRUC. Admission also entitles each person to a free drink ticket at the boat's cash bar. The Senior Fling Committee has also made .arrangements with the Townehouse, a bar within walking distance from the steamboat, for a post-cruise drink special. All drinks made with Well's vodka, gin, or whiskey, will cost $LOO, and draft will be sold for $.50. Picnic at Thatcher Park from 12:00 noon to 7:00 p.m. on Thursday, June lOth. Enjoy the beer, soda, and mWlchies that willb'e available while listening to the tunes of Jim Etkin's band. Equipment will also be available for volleyball and softball games! As we are liJDited to 450 tickets for the boat cruise, ticket sales will be made exclusively to seniors Thurs., Fri., and Mon., May 20th, 21st, and 25th. Thereafter, ticket sales will be open to the entire campus. So don't missthe boat, seniol'S! Buy your tickets as soon as possible for your last Fling before graduation! ! TRIP TO N.Y.C. Spons.ored by the Classics Department Wednesday, May 26th 8:30 am .. 7:30 pm Broadway Production of Medea by Eurip.ides starring Zoe Caldwell I & Judith Anderson Cost: $21 {includes roundtrip bus and theater ticket) Contact: Professor Zigelis at x 6214 ( H_ U 215E)· Professor Ketterer at x6205 ( HU 215B) as soon as possible Books Exhibited Schaffer Ubrary .is in the midst of one of its most com- prehensive exhibitions and, for book lovers, it is an ex- traordinary treat. The exhibi,tion is called \Thirty-eight Ways to Take a Rare Book Seriously.'' On display are original editions of ;influential books, selected from the library's special collectians and accompanied by exhibition notes written by faculty members. The selections range from such familiar :works as the King James and Douai Bibles to Hawthorne's The House of the Seven Gables and Jane Austen's PEide and Prejudice, to books now much more easily venerated than perused, in- cluding Newton's Principia and the Domesday Book. An exhibition catalogue is being prepared, and inquiries are welcome. Contact Archivist Ellen Fladger at 6278 for more information. Play Scheduled The Mountebanks' spring production, the musical comedy \Company Will open in the Nott Memorial Theater today. Performances will also be given May 21 and 22 and May 27 to 29, with all shows at 8 p.m. Tickets for \Company\ go on sale Thursday, May 13, at the Nott Memorial Box Office. The cost is $4 per person. Call 6153 for ticket information. ''Company'' focuses on Robert: handsome, charming. and a bachelor., but not for long .if his friends have their way. Hobert's bachelorhood is threatened by the matchmaking attempts of five not~so-happily­ married couples, who provide him with various romantic interests. Th_e part of Robert is being played by Stephen Gatta, a senior applied mathematics major. The production is under the direction of Professor Morris Kaufman of the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Arts Department. Kaufman has .directed more than 50 productions, including a previaus staging of \Com- pany.\ This will be his first experience directing theater-in- the-round. Irene Fassler, a junior psychology major, is assistant director. Dar,kroom Sought By MARCY BURSTINER News Editor On Ap'ril29, a memorandum was sent to Michael Newman, Co-Chairman of the Photography Club, ordering Newman to remove all equipment belonging to the club from their darkroom in Silliman Hall. The deadline for the move was June 1, and the memo stated that the darkroom \is in a spot marked for demolition or construction.\ rhe memo, signed by Acting Dean Spring, also stated that Jack Litynski, Direcotr of Campus Planning and Development, ''has suggested that we will be able to find you alternative space.\ Beyond this, Newman was , given no reason for the move. Spring did not suggest a place to store the equipment, nor did he offer to fund a new darkroom Agenda for Student Forum Meeting May 24th 9:30pm Strauss Lounge l) Ratify minutes 2) Committee reports • 3) WRUC 4) Constitutional Amend- ment:. Panhellenic Rep. facility. Newman then met with Litynski and John Hauser, the Vice President for Finance and Administration, to discuss the consequences of moving the darkroom. Litynski and Hauser surprisingly, seemed very sympathetic, according to Newman, toward the .club's problems, and reassured Newman that full funding to build new facilities would be provided by the administration. A building contractor will be hired to work with Maintenance and the facilities will. be set up during the summer. They also agreed to delay the deadline for moving the equipment until after finals. Several possibilities for the new darkroom were discussed at the meeting. One proposition was that the Photography Club would share a darkroom with another club or that one large darkroom would be used by the entire campus community. Another suggestion was for the club to occupy a now vacant darkroom in the basement of West Dormitory. The room would have to be equipped with better ventilation and it would have to be repainted, but Litynski and Hauser assured Newman that it would be taken care of. Another solution would be to establish the facilities in the Haskin's Laboratory located behind North Dor- mitory. The Dutch Hollow Pub At the Student Forum meeting on Monday, Newman commented to the Forum that although Litynski and Hauser have been very helpful, the situation could have been handled better. He also men- tioned that an editorial on behalf of the Photography Club which appeared in last week's Concordiensis helped con- siderably, but controversy could have been avoided if the administration had given the club prior notification. Instead ·of evicting the club and then offering to help out with funds, they should have consulted with the club chairmen during the planning stage of the Silliman Hall renovations. Overall, though, Ne~ said the club :was grateful to both Litynski and Hauser and he seemed optimistic about the future of the Photography Club and its darkroom facilities. proudly anno~nces the return of SLIPKNOT TU!ESDAY, MAY 25th FREE POPCORN Campus Profile Evaluating the Student Forum's year, Weldon Tumer, President, feels that definite progress has been made. By implementing the role call voting system, having minutes, ratifying minutes and having open meetings, methods of governing were improved. The Forum took hard stands on many issues which gave the group a direction to follow in dealing with similar decisions. Though some of their actions raised some controversy, Weldon believes that, \Sure we made some enemies but anyone who sticks to their guns will-it's doing your job.\ Addressing the question of missing by-laws, he asserted that past president David O'Conner had promised to write them. Fall term, Weldon delegated the responsibility to three Forum members and the Forum advisor, Chip Morris. As of now there exists a rough draft. If anything, \our reputation has been hurt for not having them.\ He regards the role of Con- cordiensis as a necessary means of reporting the plans and actions of the Forum. However, he says, \The paper overstepped their boundaries by stating wb~lt ::We Should and shouldn't do.'.',.:He -said it was visible t-hat some Forum members were influenced by the newspaper's comments but that he is just too \stubborn pompous and pigheaded\ to feel pressured by its statements. From his point of view, the removal of Paul Grossman from the position of Editor-in- Chief of Coucordiensis was the most controversial of any issue addressed during the year. It was something never done before and many people felt strongly about both sides of the situation. He declared, \We stood on \'ur principles and he stood on his.\ Weldon expressed the need for more audits. This would make all students aware that their expenditures were being carefully watched. The entire system need not be revamped, he claims, for the real problem lies \with human nature ... if a person is dishonest they will . find a way to beat the system.\ Among Weldon's suggestions for improvements for next year are the finalization of the . Student Forum by-la:ws and the purchase of a computer to store all the financial records of every Forum funded organization. This, he says, would aid the Finance Com- mittee in auditing the clubs and would enable all club members to update their records regularly. He recommends that llene Landress, his successor, meet with the newly elected officers before this year ends to ''solidify all the logilltics before Fall term.\ She should also learn to be \rough and critical\ and to .always \stick to her guns.\ He also advises that she - meet as many administrators, and fraternity-sorority presidents as possible. Finally, she should try to make sure that all members are fully informed of the issues to be discussed. This would eliminate a lot of lengthy debates and many questions asked during the meetings.

I OONOORDIENSIS, May SO, 198! Smith to Speak Bernard C. Smith, chairman of the Association for the Protection of the Adirondacks will be the featured speaker at the second annual meeting of the Adirondack 'Research Center. His talk will be at 8: 30 p.m. Friday, May 21, in the Schaffer Library Music Room on the topic \The Adirondack Park and the Legislative Process.'' A former New York State sena,tor, Smith chaired the Standing Committee on Con- servation, Recreation and the Environment and was responsible for the enactment of major legislation protecting the envirerunent, wildlife, and the forest preserve. He played a majer n;~le in the creation of the Adirondack Park Agency. Adirondack Research Center committee members and consultants will hold a business meeting and attend an in- formation session in the af- ternoon. Guest speakers at the information session will be Theodore L. Hullar, director of research at Cornell University; Margaret O'Brien, director of the 11oted Loomis Collection at the Keene Valley Library; Bernard R. Carman, editor of Adirondack Life, and Gary Randorf, director of the Adirondack Council. Hullar O'Brien, and Carman are among the Research Center's 20 consultants. The Adirondack Research Center, established as a reposHory for research materials on the Adirondacks, is located on the fourth floor of Schaffer Library and is open to the public by appointment. SENIOR FLING Tickets for Senior Fling 1982 will go on sale Thursday, May 20th at 1: 30 p.m. in Carnegie Hall. Admission to both the Lake George Boat Cruises and Thatcher Park Picnic is $6.00. For all landlubbers, tickets for admission to Thatcher Park exclusively will be available for $3.00. Bus transportation will also be available to and from Thatcher Park for a fee of $2.00, providing enough people purchase tickets. Books Exhibited Schaffer Library is in the midst of one of its most com- prehensive exhibitions and, for book lovers, it is an ex- traordinary treat. The exhibition is called \Thirty-eight Ways to Take a Rare Book Seriously.'' On display are original editions of ;influential books, selected from the library's special collections and acc0mpanied by exhibition notes. written by faculty members. The selections range from such familiar works as the King James and Douai Bibles to Hawthorne's The House of the Seven Gables and Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice, to books now much more easily venerated than perused, in- cluding Newton's Principia and the Domesday Book. An exhibition catalogue is being prepared, and inquiries are welcome. Contact Archivist Ellen Fladger at 6278 for more information. Play Scheduled The Mountebanks' spring production, the mwical comedy \Company will open in the Nott Memorial Theater today. Performances will also be given May 21 and 22 and May 27 to 29, with all shows at 8 p.m. Tickets for \Company\ go on sale Thursday, May 13, at the Nott Memorial Box Office. The cost is $4 per person. Call 6153 for ticket informatian. \Company\ focuses on Robert: handsome, charming, and a bachelor, but not for long if his friends have their way. Robert's bachelorhood is threatened by the matchmaking attempts of five not-so--happily- married couples, who provide him with various romantic interests. The part of Robert is being played by Stephen Gatta, a senior applied mathematics major. The production is under the direction of Professor Morris Kaufman of the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Arts Department. Kaufman has directed more than 50 productions, including a previous staging of \Com- pany.\ This will be his first experience directing theater-in- the-round. Irene Fassler, a junior psychology major, is assistant director. Senior Fling commences Wednesday evening, June 9th, with a Lake George Cruise on the Ticonderoga. Boarding time will be 7:30 for the two-hour excursion. Music will be provided by WRUC. Admission also entitles each person to a free drink ticket at the boat's cash bar. Darkroom Sought The Senior Fling Committee has also made arrangements with the Townehouse, a bar within walking distance from the steamboat, for a post-cruise drink special. All drinks made with Well's vodka, gin, or whiskey, will cost $1.00, a.nd draft will be sold for $.50. Picnic at Thatcher Park from 12:00 noon to 7:00 p.m. on Thur~day, June lOth. Enjoy the beer, soda, and munchies that will be available while listening to the tunes of Jim Etkin's band. Equipment will also be available for volleyball and softball games! As we are limited to 450 tickets for the boat cruise, ticket sales will be made exclusively to seniors Thurs., Fri., and Mon., May 20th, 21st, and 25th. Thereafter, ticket sales will be open to the entire campus. So don't miss the boat, seniors! Buy your tickets as soon as possible for your last Fling before graduation! ! TRIP TO N.Y.C. Sponsored by the Classics Department Wednesday, May 2&th 8:30am • 7:30pm Broadway Production of Medea by Euripides starring Zoe Caldwell & Judith Anderson Cost: $21 (includes roundtrip bus and theater ticket) Contact: Professor Zigelis at x 6214 ( HU 215E) Professor Ketterer at x6205 ( H U 215 B) as soon as possible By MARCY BURSTINER News Editor On Ap'ril 29, a memorandum was sent to Michael Newman, Co-Chairman of the Photography Club, ordering Newman to remove all equipment belonging to the club from their darkroom in Silliman Hall. The deadline for the move was June 1, and the memo stated that the darkroom ''is in a spot marked for demolition or construction.\ The memo, signed by Acting Dean Spring, also stated that Jack Litynski, Direcotr of Campus Planning and Development, \has suggested that we will be able to find you alternative space.\ Beyond this, Newman was given no reason for the move. Spring did not suggest a place to store the equipment, nor did he offer to fund a new darkroom Agenda for Student Forum Meeting May 24th 9:30 pm Strauss Lounge l) Ratify minutes 2) Committee reports • 3) WRUC 4) Constitutiona I Amend- ment: Panhellenic Rep. The Dutch Hollow Pub proudly announces the return of SLIPKNOT TUESDAY, MAY 25th FREE POPCORN facility. Newman then met with Litynski and John Hauser, the Vice President for Finance and Administration, to discuss the consequences of moving the darkroom. Litynslti and Hauser surprisingly, seemed very sympathetic, according to Newman, toward the club's problems, and reassured Newman that full funding to build new facilities would be provided by the administration. A building contractor will be hired to work with Maintenance and the facilities will be set up during the smnmer. They also agreed to delay the deadline for moving the equipment until after finals. Several possibilities for the new darkroom were discussed at the meeting. One proposition was that the Photography Club would share a darkroom with another club or that one large darkroom would be used by the entire campus community. Another suggestion was for the club to occupy a now vacant darkroom in the basement of West Dormitory. The room would have to be equipped with better ventilation and it would have to be repainted, but Litynski and Hauser assured Newman that it would be taken care of. Another solution would be to establish the facilities in the Haskin's Laboratory located behind North Dor- mitory. At the Student Forum meeting on Monday, Newman commented to the Forum that although Litynski and Hauser have been very helpful, the situation could have been handled better. He also men- tioned that an editorial on behalf of the Photography Club which appeared in last week's Concordiensis helped con- siderably, but controversy could have been avoided if the administration had given the club prior notification. Instead of evicting the club and then offering to help out with funds, they should have consulted with the club chairmen during the planning stage of the Silliman Hall renovations. Overall, though, NewmaQ said the club was grateful to both Litynski and Hauser and he seemed optimistic about the future of the Photography Club and its darkroom facilities. :page B : Campus Profile Evaluating the Student Forum's year, Weldon Tlli·ner, President, feels that definite progress has been made. By implementing the role call voting system, having minutes, ratifying minutes and having open meetings, methods of governing were improved. The Forum took hard stands on many issues which gave the group a direction to follow in dealing with similar decisions. Though some of their actions raised some controversy, Weldon believes that, \Sure we made some enemies but anyone who sticks to their guns will-it's doing your job.\ Addressing the question of missing by-laws, he asserted that past president David O'Conner had promised to write them. Fall term, Weldon delegated the responsibility to three Forum members and the Forum advisor, Chip Morris. As of now there exists a rough draft. If anything, \our reputation has been hurt for not having them.\ He regards the role of Con- cordiensis as a necessary means of reporting the plans and actions of the Forum. However, he says, \The paper overstepped their boundaries by stating what we should and shouldn't do.\ He said it was visible that some Forum members were influenced by the newspaper's comments but that he is just too \stubborn pompous and pigheaded\ to feel pressured by its statements. From his point of view, the removal of Paul Grossman from the position of Editor-in- Chief of Concordiensis was the most controversial of any issue addressed during the year. It was something never done before and many people felt strongly about both sides of the situation. He declared, \We stood on 'bur principles and he stood on his.\ Weldon expressed the need for more audits. This would make all students aware that their expenditures were being carefully watched. The entire system need not be revamped, he claims, for the real problem lies \with human nature ... if a person is dishonest they will .find a way to beat the system.\ Among Weldon's suggestions for improvements for next year are the finalization of the ·Student Forum by-laws and the purchase of a computer to store all the financial records of every Forum funded organization. This, he says, would aid the Finance Com- mittee in auditing the clubs and would enable all club members to update their records regularly. He recommends that Tiene Landress, his successor, meet with the newly elected officers before this year ends to \solidify all the logistics before Fall term.\ She should also learn to be \rough and critical\ and to always \stick to her guns.\ He also advises that she meet as many administrators, and fraternity-sorority presidents as possible. Finally, she should try to make sure that all members are fully informed of the issues to be discussed. This would eliminate a lot of lengthy debates and many questions asked during the meetings.

00¥00RDIENSIS, May BO, 1982 Final Examination Schedule Spring Term 1982 IMPORTANT: This exam schedule ·is primarily for regular \day\ undergraduate courses .. A separate schedule for Graduate Studies and Continuing Education courses will be announced, and students in \Section 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the .mnouncement of the ex!pll time for these courses. Tllose who have three (3) examinations in one day and wish to seek relief may see Dean Nelson, Room S-100, Science and Engineering Bldg. before May 31, 1982. It should be noted, however, that students are regularly expected to take two exams in a single day. Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. Lapidus in the Office of the Registrar not later than .Friday, May 28, 1982. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used: OC-Old Cha - 1 AB-Arts Building · pe BH-Bailey Hall PY -Psrchol~gy Labor~t~ry BU-Butterfield Hall SS-Soc~ Sctences Bwlding HU-Humanities Building SH-stemm~tz Hall N-North Wing, Science-Engr. Center CH-Carnegle Hall MONDAY, JUNE 7 - 8:30 a.m.-10:30 a.m.· liberal Learning 22-Sound and Music-Craig--BU204 Classics 23-History of Rome: Tbe Empire-Zigelis-\HU014 Economics 10-Elementary Economics, Sec. 2-Phaup-SS113 Economics ll .... Elementary Economics, Sec. 2-Lewis-SS117 Economics 33-Public Policy and American Industry-Kline-SS)15 English 21-Major English Authors III-Murphy-HUllS English 27-Comedy--Heinegg-88016 English 43-Hwnanities II: Middle Ages and Renaissance-Freund-OC History 51-Modern Germany: Bismarck to Hitler-Hansen-HU019 Chinese 12--Basic Intensive Chinese III...Chan-HU016 French 11-Basic French II-Warger-HUllO French 12-Basic French III-McDennott-HU112 German 11-Basic German II-Kellenter-HU114 Spanish 12-Basic Spanish III-Ihrie-HU117 Philosophy 133--Nineteenth Century Philosophy-Davis--HU115 Sociology tO-Introduction to Sociology, Sec. l-Schneller-SS112 Sociology 152-Sociology of Education-Weiner-SS014 American Studies a:J.,-Public Policy and American Industry-Klein-88115 Biology 11-Topics in Contemporary Biology-B. Boyer Schadler-BH207 Biology 22-Biology of Plants-Core If-Birecka, Frohli~h-CH205 Biology 134-Population Biology-J. Boyer-SHlOO Biology 147-Immunology-Styles-SH101 Biology 166-Brain and Behavior-Markiewicz-PY204 Chemistry 150-Physical Chemistry I-Hayes-Nll6 Mathematics 24-Geometry--Sei.ken-BHlOS Mathematics 185-Mathematical Models in the Life Sciences--Bick-BH104 Physics 13-Introduction to Physics II (Engineering, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics Majors), Sec. 1-8chick-SS012 Physics 14-Elements of Modem Physics, Sec. 2-Pilcher-SHlOS Physics 24--Statistical Thermodynamics-Peak-BU102 Physics 44--Introduction to Astronomy-Titus-BU109 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 2-Calabria-PY113 Psychology 20-Statistical Methods in Psychology-Greenberg-PY213 Psychology 166-Brain and Beha:vior-Markiewicz-PY204 E.S. 20-Mechanics II-Panlilio C.E. 35--Water Resources and the Environment-Snow-BU106 E.E. 36-System Theory II-Russ-BH201 E.E. 250-Principles of Fibre Optical Transmission-Chang-BH108 C.S. 18-Introduction to Computer Organization-Gajjar-BH205 MONDAY, JUNE 7- 11:15-1:15 p~m. Arts 78-Renaissance in Italy-Part II-Mendelsohn-AB104 History 125--The Intellectual Tradition of American· Diplomacy-Jonas-8S113 Hebrew l~Basic Hebrew III-Heckelman-HU117 Philosophy 61-Philosophy .of Religion-Morris-88117 Political Science S4-Chinese Foreign Policy-Thurston-SS115 Sociology 141-Crime and Justice in Society-Huggins--SS112 Sociology 157-Sociology of Work and Occupation-Schneller-SSOlO Accounting 11-Financial Accounting II-Hurley-BH205 Biology 36-Invertebrate Zoology-B. Boyer-BH203 Geology 11--Historical Geology-Zimmerman-BU106 Computer Science 40-Machine and Assembly Language--Federighi-BU204 MONDAY, JUNE ·7 - 2:410-4:00 p.m. Economics 42 .. Macroeconomic Theory and Policy, Sec. 2-Phaui)-SS112 English 34-Stud.ies in American Uterature: American Symbols-Wineapple- HU019 History 162-Communism in Latin Arn.erica-Bristol-SS113 Political Science 20--Social Data Analysis-Hartwig-HU112 Sociology 62-Social Data Analysis-Hartwig-HU112 Statistics 110-Introduction to Statistical Methods-Delaney-BH205 American Studies 34-studies in American Literature: American Symbols- VVUfieapple--FnJ019 Mathematics 30-Qrdinary Differential Equations Sec. l-Maddaus-BH207 Sec. 2-Pappas-BH203 E.S. 48-Introduction to Semiconductor Devices and Circuits-Kwnp-HUU5 E.E. 148-Digital Circuits-Hassib-N116 TUESDAY, JUNE 8 '· 8:30.10:30 a.m. Freshman Elective 45-The Last Wilderness: The Hwnan Mind-Huntley-PY213 . Classics 43-Classical Mythology-Zigelis-CH205 Economics 31-Microeconornic Analysis-B. Reynolds-SS117 Economics 51-Environmental Economics--Kenney-SS012 English 22-Major American Authors: The American Renaissance-Wineapple-- HU019 English 40--Literature of the Bible-Freund--SS016 History 48-History of ModernBritann: 1688 to World War II-Finkelstein-8S113 · History 55-The Soviet Period--Berk-88115 French 134-The French Language ll1 Practical Use II, Sec. 2-McDermott-HUllO French 139-A Survey of French Literature II-Warger-HU014 German 134-The Gennan Language in Practical Use II-Kellenter-HU016 Russian 12-Basic Russian III-Jernakoff-HU116 Philosophy 12-Philosophical Problems-Kaminsky-HU115 Philosophy 149-Topics in Contemporary European Philosophy-Davi.s-SSOlO Sociology 10-Introduction to Sociology, Sec. 2-Weiner-SS112 American Studies 22-Major American Authors: The American Renaissance-- Wi.ileapple-HU019 Biology 157-Plant Systematics-Frohlich-BH205 Chemistry 4o-Quantitative Chemistry-8chaefer-N116 Geology 1~0-Recent Sedimentary Environments--Zi.mmennaii--BU106 Mathematics 33-Abstract Algebra U--Niefield-BH102. Mathematics 41-Linear Algebra I, Sec. ~eiken-BH2ol Math_ematics .134-Differential Equations-:-Pappas-BH2b3 Phys~cs 42-Great Ideas of Modem Physlcs-Scmck-BH207 Phys1cs 125-Modern Computing Methods in Physics-Reich-SH101 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 4-Lipton--PY113 Psy~hology 31-Abnonnal Psychology-Dworkin-PY102 Engmeering Liberal Learning 33-Energy I...Shanebrook-8H110 E.S. 10-Mechanics I Sec. 1-Lakhnapal-BH104 · Sec. 2 .... Weiss--BU109 C.E. 150-Water 'Resources-Sno.w-BHlOO TUESDAY, JUNE - - 11! 15-l: 15 p.m. German 12-Basic Gennan III-Kellenter-HU116 Anthropology 50-Sex Roles in Comparative Perspective-S. Gmelch-SS112 Mathematics 14-Calculus III Sec. 1-Maddaus-BH108 Sec. 2-Dubisch-BH104 Sec. 3-Gingrich--BIDOl Sec. 4-Zimmerman-BH207 E.S. 32-Electrical· Circuits and Devices II-Branch-BU204 TUESDAY, JUN:E 8,- 2:004:00 _,.m. · Freshman Elect1ve 75--The Biology of Sex-Lambert...SS113 Economics 10-Elementary Economics, Sec. 1-Love--SS115 German 144-Love Stories and Love Poems of the 20th Century-Kellenter--HUUO Accounting 10-Financial Accounting--Tomer-BH207 Chemistry 16-Inorganic Chemistry I-Sheffer-BU204 Chemistry 134-0rganic Chemistry III-Sowa-BU106 Mathematics 12-Calculus H -Muckenfuss--88117 Mathematics 18-Introduction to Logic and Set Theory-Bick-BH203 Mathematics 41-Linear Algebra I, Sec. 1-Larsson-BH102 Mathemat~cs 101-Advanced Calculus for Engineers-:-Pairchild-BH205 Mathematics 180-Foundations of Mathematics-Taylor-BH104 Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I-Jones-SH106 Physics 13-Introduction to Physics II-Reich-SHlOO Physics 14-Elements of Modern Pbysics, Sec. 1-Newman--SHllO Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 1-Huntley-PY102 E.S. 70-Mana!lerial and Engineering Ecenomics--Griggs-HU115 Computer Sc1ence 11-FORTRAN Programmip.g for the Social Sciences- Morecroft-HU117 Computer Science 34-COBOL and Information Processing-8chwarz-SS112 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 9 -8:30-10:30 a.m. Arts 40-Introduction to Music-Wilson-AB202 Economics 10-Elementary Economid, Sec. 3-Klein-8Sll7 Economics 157 -Regional Economics-Love-HU014 English 18-Jntroduction to the Study of Literary Forrns-Tharsing-HU019 English SG-Shakespeare after 1600-Murphy-HU116 English 64-Literature of the Romantic Period II-Freund-SSOlO History 2()-Contemporary America-J onas-SS11S History 46-Contemporary Europe--Hansen-SS016 History 72-The Early History of the Jews-Berk-SS014 French 134-The French Language in Practical Use II, Sec. 1-Ruthman-HU112 Spanish 11-Basic Spanish II-Diez-Herencia-HU114 Philosophy 21-Symbolic Logic--Ludwig-HU117 ' \ Philosophy 136-Phenomenology and Existentialism-Patrik-HU016 Political Science 12-Contemporary International Politics-Gati-SS113 Anthropology 10-Introduction to Cultural Anthropology-B. Gmelch-HU115 Biology 23-The Cell-Core III-Lambert-CH205 Biology 162;...Jntroduction to Neurobiology-Olberg-BH205 Chemistry 12-Fundamental Chemistry II · Sec. 1-Werner-.SU204 Sec. 2-Quaal-BU204 Mathematics 1o-calculus I-Taylor-BH203. Mathematics 21-Mathematical Methods for the Social Sciences II-Muckenfuss-- BH207 Mathematics 127-Nwnerical Analysis--Rousseau--BHlOO Physics 11-lntroduction to Physics I (Biology, Science, Humanities and Social Science Majors)-Maleki-8H106 · Physics 13-Introduction to Physics II (Engineering. Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics Majors), Sec. 2-0hanian-8H101 Psychology 24-Social Psychology-Lipton-PY113 Psychology 36-Animal Learning-Markiewicz-PY102 Engineering Liberal Learning 12-Homes, Buildings and Engineering Principles- Harlow-BU109 E.S. 33-Fluid Systems Analysis-Ketchum-SH 110 & SHlOO WEDNESDAY, JUNE ,9• • 11:15-1:15 p.m. Economics 11-Elementary Economics Sec. 2-B. Reynolds-SSllS Sec. 3-R Reynolds-SS115 English 29-Satire-Tharsing-HUllO Italian 10-Dellario-SS113 ~ Computer Science 42-Nwnerical Methods--Federighi-BU109 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 9 • 2:80-4:00 p.m. F~eshman Ele?tive 46-Women and Ch~nge in the Third World-Huggins-SS117 Liberal Learnmg 12-James Joyce: Fmnegan's Wake-HU117 · Economics 42-Macroeconomic Theory and Policy, Sec. 1-Kershner-SS115 English 58-Milton-Stevenson-HU116 Philosophy 43-Metaphysics-R. Taylor-HU114 Philosophy 174-Biomedical Ethics-Kaminsky-FIU112 Anthropology 40-Culture and Technology--G. Gmelch-SSOlO Biology 164-Ethology-George-N116 Chemistry-Fundamental Chemistry I Sec. 1-Weick--BU204 Sec. 2-Guare-BU204 Sec. 3-Weick-BU204 Psychology 42-Psychological Assessment-Nydegger-PY102 Psychology 53-Seminar in Psychology and the Criminal Justice System-Lipton- PY113 C.E. 20-Land Measurements: Theory and Application-Male-BU109 E. E. 152--Microproce$Sors and Microcomputers: Architecture, Programming and Applications--Gajjar-BH104 ,. Computer Science 10-Perspectives on Computer Languages and Software- Hannay-BH203 - '' w and Ver For1 secc witt grm Phil to\ Uni' rat I pas: A the the nev coo: the por tog• .rna: reb dis tell the ref1 sid' COl iSS1 F ob1 Ph 1 Til 19l un bu in Stl thl ofl ffii th st1 Q\l ar pl th c VI n fl VI y n c [] l i'

CONOORDIENBIS, May 10, 1981 features ''En Vino V eritas '' Philosophy :forum will sponsor an 'En . Vino ·Veritas' By THOM CHING Staff With an enthusiastic outlook and the slogan, '''En Vlno Verltas,\ the Philosophy Forum is eager to 'begin its second year at Union. In line with the past history of the group, the new headS of the Philosophy Forwn will attempt to \stimulate the minds\ of the Union community to question rather than accept ideas passively. According to Judi Chervenak, the newly elec~ed secretary of the Forum and Iris Cohen, a newly elected speaker• coordinator, the objectives of the Forwn are ''to offer op- - portunities for students to get together to discuss issues which . may be directly or indirectly related to philosophy and to discuss th'll issues in- telligently.\ By \intelligently the speakers for the Forum referred to the scrutiny of both sides of the issues and to draw a constructive stance on the issue. Perhaps · the single greatest obstacle faced by the Philosophy Forum is their Humor: image· as viewed by others on the campus and their \search for a more diverse g.roup.\ In the words of Chervenak and Cohen, the Philosophy Forum is no~ ''made up of only Philosophy majors.\ Instead, the ~orwn hopes to appeal to the diverse tastes of the campus community. On Thursday, May 27 at 6:30 p.m., the Philosophy Forum is sponsoring a ''Sunset Gathering'' at Jackson Gardens which will be open to the campus community. The tlo~s of the Forum is that this gathering will provide a relaxed atmosphere for free discussion. In addition, the Forum plans to make a niche in the campus social activities next term by presenting several .notable speakers. The tentative list includes a ' ' d r·e a m s p e c i a li s t , , psychoanalyst and author Dr. Montague Ullman, . Dr. Laura Roth, a Tibetan Buddhist nad Professor at SUNY Albany. Both will disucss their works and-or specialties. Other speakers that the Philosophy Forum hopes to engage include Selling of Union By~BOB V ANVORIS Staff An article in the Albany Times Union dated May 10, 1982, addresses an issue tnat, up until now, Concordiensis had all but ignored. Entitled \Colleges in Selling Drive to Recruit Top Students,\ the piece describes the efforts of college admissions offices throughout the area, most notably Union's, to attract the nation's top high school students to their institutions. To quote, \Union College wines and dines its top student ap- plicants. The college invited them to spend a few days on campus with members of the prestigious academic club, Phi Beta Kappa, going to class, attending parties, and sharing a dormitory room. Then, it plies them almost ·weekly with slick brochures, college newspapers and personal letters to they don't forget Union.\ Now a freshman at Union College, I can remember waiting nervously for the mailman to deliver the replies from the various colleges to which I had applied. It's been a year, but I can still recall the mixture of relief and ex- citement with which I read the notification of my acceptance to Union College. As I remember, it began \Dear Candidate: We are pleased to inform you that after a careful review of your high school record and parent credit history, we ..... have found you marginally qualified to attend Union College for a trial period of not more than two academic terms . . . \ I was never wined and dined, though. Not having experienced this recruitment process firsthand (my first application to Union was marked \moved-no for·. warding address\) I contacted' Irving Albertstein, a soon-~o~be­ graduate of the prestigioUS Only24 Warren G. Harding School .of Grand Forks, North Dakota. I was told Albertstein is Union's most highly regarded prospect fo its Class of 1986. Said one Admissions official \We really think we have something in Irving. Do you realize that his high school average is four points higher than his body temperature?\ In addition to Union, Albert- stein has been courted by MIT, RPI, California Berkeley, and Tokyo Polytechnic in addition to several hundred less well known institutions. Even so, it seems that Union is at the top of Albertstein's list. Said Irving, \All of the other colleges have Phys. Ed. requirements.\ Albertstein, whose hobbies include bowling, old movies, and quantum physics, also credits Union's Office of Admissions with being the most aggressive. Hoping to discover whether or not the Times Union presented an accurate picture of Union's recruiting procedures, I asked another Admissions official whether Albertstein had been \plied\ by Union. \Well she said, \I think some of these reports of recruiting abuses are ridiculous. There hasn't been a recruiting violation at Union in more than ten years.\ When asked to comment on the recent incident in which the school was charged with paying for the abortions of several girlfriends of male six-year meds, though, she refused. As for Albertstein, he will have to decide which college he will attend next fall by the end of this week. At the moment he cannot be reached for com- ment, though, as he is now undergoing an extensive academic interview with a Union altunnus residing in the Bahamas. Days _Until Graduation Tom Paston, the folk singer- writer whose works have consisted of political com- mentaries on the Vietnam War and the Reagan cuts in public school lunches entitled the \Ketchup Song.\ (\in wine there is truth\) Although the Philosophy Forum is a rather \young'' organization going into only its second . year, its hopes are · nonth_eless those of g.reat magnitude. Undoubtedly, they are quite enthusi~ic in their objectives of expanding their diversity in topics and in members. Sunset Gathering and organizational meetingadiscussion on Thursday, May 20th 6:30 pm in Jackson's Gardens Homecoming Preparations By DAVE FITZGERALD Staff Although it is 151 days away, and it is hard to think about · when there is so much time before it happens, Homecoming '82'is on the way. Since the end of Winter term, a dedicated group of students, led by Edie. Berkowitz and Chrissie Van- wormer of the Alwnni Office and Carla Cogan, student chairperson, have been plan- ning Homecoming '82 so that it will be the best yet and fW1 for all. Keep your calendar during October 15 through 17 clear so that you will be able to attend all of the activities and celebrations. This year there will be much to celebrate because it is the eightieth an- niversary of the Wooden Shoe Competition between Union and RPI, the sixti~th anniversary of . Homecoming, and the tenth anniversary of the filming of The Way We Were at Union. In keeping with all the traditions and anniversaries that will be occurring this year, the Homecoming '82. theme is, Dutch Memories Wooden Shoe Like To Remember . . . It is H9alth Abroad By DAVE FITZGERALD Staff • . I A thing that always bothers people before they go abroad is what will they do if they should happen to get ill during their travels. As you know, the thing that would ruin a vacation the most would be an illness. This covers the serious things like venereal disease to those troubles, like Montezuma's Revenge, that come from drinking the water. To help travelers with their questions and problems The Medical College of Pennsylvania is now offering a service that should relieve some of those pre- ·departure fears. Travel Health is a one-year- old service that specializes in .pre- and post-travel problems. For just ~00 dollars they will do a complete medical history, give you pre-travel counseling, all the shots that you need, and will screen you for things after your return. The Center For Disease Control provides vital information to the service on the conditions on the country that you will be visiting and what you can expect. The service is gaining in popularity and now handles about 8 clients each week. 'lhe service has handled all types of questions from the usual about the food and water to things like ''Are the public bathroom facilities safe?\ and \Should I only drink and eat things I have prepared with my own hands?\ If you do not want to travel to Philadelphia for your travel information then there are many publications that you can find with loads of helpful in- formation. One of the books has been written by a prominent doctor and his wife. Dr. and Mrs. Herbert Dupont's book . Travel With Health explores both the common problems one can face and strange and exotic things. If the strange o.re too strange then we know the kinds of things that they go in for. Another informative source for the person going away is published by the company that makes Pepto Bismol and is t~tled Bon Voyage. This book includes things that one should and should not eat, what to wear, how must to cope over- seas, and what medications to bring. If you plan to go away for the summer or for a term next year then you should have no trouble finding information on how to stay healthy on your voyage. Students for Israel presents: Shimon Schwartz Speaking on \Israel: Living Between War and Peace \ Tuesday, May 25th 7:30p.m., Banquet Room Everyone is Welcome hoped that everyone will like the theme and be able to think of many ideas to build parade floats involving the theme. Homecoming '82 Promotion Day will be held on Thursday, October 7. On this day a table will be set up in Carnegie to inform everyone about the scheduled events. Also on this day the official Homecoming '82 button will be passed out. The committee wants everyone to wear their button proudly before and during the big football game. One of the biggest events of the weekend is the parade. Like last year it is hoped that all of the dorms will build a float for the parade plus this year it is hoped that fraternities and sororities will enter floats of their own. There will be cash prizes for the groups with the best floats. Possibly the floats will be judged in categories so that dorms will compete with dorms and fraternities will compete with other fraternities. This will give fraternities the incentive to enter to show who is the best among themselves. The more floats the better the parade will be and we need a big parade to show our team how much we suppQrt them. · The foot ball game which will be the highlight of the weekend is especially important this year. The Dutchmen will be fighting our rival R.P.I. to keep the Wooden Shoe Trophy which Union now holds. It would be great if the Dutchmen win the game and keep the trophy on such a special occasion as the eightieth anniversary of the game. A win would give everyone even more reasons to celebrate on such a festive weekend. Other events that will occur during the weekend include Coffeehouse, Cabaret, academic receptions, Glee Club concert, reception in Jackson's Gardens, a movie, a famous speaker, and much more. The Homecoming '82 Com- mittee has been working hard and has done a good job in the planning stages of the big weekend. When we return in the fall it will be time for everyone to get involved. Building a float tames many people and hard work but it is fun. This year the theme gives everyone involved room to be creative in planning their floats so there should be a wide variety of designs. Homecoming is a time for everyone to get involved and to appreciate some of the history of Union. This year with so much history to celebrate it will be a time to take great pride in Union. So this fall get involved, attend all the Homecoming activities, and get psyched for a great weekend.

Page 6 FITZHUGH LUDLOW DAY 198B Ludlow to Honor Henry Wikoff FitzHugh 'is Back, And . It's Like He Never Left He doesn't look Hke a lot of fun. Look at his picture. He just doesn't look like the kind of guy that would be the life of the party, but he is. None of us here were fortunate enough to attend a party of his, until recently. Yes, once again, FitzHugh Ludlow Day is upon us. Saturday, May 22, marks the fourth annual appearance of that illustrious Union alwnnus. Each year, FitzHugh honored himself,; the result was a rousing success. Two years ago, Ludlow decided to be somewhat more traditional and he honored anothe~ worthy Union grad, Squire Whipple. Whipple is the designer of the Squire Whipple Truss Bridge. This Truss Brigge, one of which fords \the brook that bounds\ just behind Achilles Rink, was considered an engineering marvel when· it was designed. Last year, Fit- zHugh took on the task of honoring two l,Jnion worthies: William H. Seward and Robert A. Toombs, the Secretaries of State for the Union and the Confederacy, respectively, · during --our nation's Civil War. This Saturday, FitzHugh honors Henry Wikoff, (pronounced why cough), Class of 1632. Wikoff led a colorful ex:istence to say the least, and has been described as a \clever and polished man of the world, who had inherited a large fortune, had gone everywhere and had known everyone.\ And so FitzHugh is in business again. Why? Why does this Gentleman deserve to host his own day of fun, food, music and merriment? Can you think of a better candidate? Possibly, but certainly no one more deserving. Five years after FitzHugh's graduation he wrote to Professor Jonathan Pearson: ''Union has always been one of my idols; I have hardly seen the time, even when my prospects in a worldly point of view were most flattering, when I would not have abandoned them to the pleasantest home -of my life.\ FitzHugh liked it here at Uni!m. Although he spent only two years at Union (he tran- ferred from the College of New Jersey), he spent his days and nights in pursuit of good times as well as academic excellence, a practice which is recom- mended to all. FitzHugh's study habits were somewhat ec- centric when viewed from our perspective: \it was not un- common to arise at 5:00a.m. for a li~tle study before chapel and breakfast.\ No one informed FitzHugh, it is safe to assume, that the prime hours for sleep are between 7;00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m., hours that contemporary students wisely utilize for their most serious attempts at sleep. Another interesting aspect of FitzHugh's Union is that \College food was poor, and digestive ailments were common.\ A few trips to Just Jacks will confirm that Union students of modern times suffer from similar troubles, but a Mike's Dog all the way will 0 •• ' • i 0 ., .. ·. ·. ~ \ . . . ~. ..... . . ·- .... ':;,_' ' . . , Silhouette of Henry Wikoff. Aug. Edouart fecit 1843. Philadelphia. Courtesy ofMr. and Mrs. H. Gregory Gulick. Even in black and white, Henry is a colorful character. surely cure any aching gut. But seriously, this year's FitzHugh Ludlow day promises to be a festive occasion with plenty of good food and live entertainment. So if you can break away from your studies- for a few hours this Saturday, come on out and eAjoy the fun. Included on the schedule of events are such activities as a carnival ride, group events for everyone and lots of red-hot music. It gives one a sense of pride ,to realize that in having an annual FitzHugh Ludlow Day the wish ofthe man who wrote, \I should have been very glad if Union had ever appeared to care for my conne~tiori with her as much as I did,\ is being fulfilled. Our hem, FitzHugh Ludlow, Class of 1856 Chevalier Hen·ry Wikoff: A 'True Ma:n of the World Henry Wikoff, author ' and adventurer, wa11 of dubious origins. The date of his birth, as well as his paternity, was carefully and successfully concealed. He was said to be the son of Henry Wikoff, a wealthy physician of Philadelphia, but a manuscript diary preserved in the library of Union College suggests that he was the son of S. P. Wetherill, who was later his guardian. In 1823 he . was sent to the academy at Prin- ceton, N.J., kept by Rev. Robert Baird, and in September 1827 entered Yale College. Dismissed near the close of his third year for a student prank, he went to Union College, where he was graduated in 1832. Early in his life he inherited a con- siderable fortune which maintained him in comfortable circumstances throughout a long and varied career. ije became a student in the law office of Joseph R. Ingersoll in Philadelphia in 1831 and despite the fact that he spent most of the next three years in ex- tensive travels in many parts of the Eastern and Middle Western states, he was ad- mitted to the Pennsylvania bar in June 1834. He at once departed upon a grand tour of Europe and during the silx years following visited France, England, Germany, Russia, Greece, andltaly. He was a man of ready wit, deep intelligence, and captivating manners. Armed with the . proper in- troductions, he soon penetrated the most exclusive and in- teresting circles of European society. It was said that no American of the period knew so many European notables as- Wikoff. Yet, with all of his in- fluence abroad, Wikoff was never an expatriate. He was always on guard for the honor of his country and his countrymen abroad, and visited the States almost annually. His interests were many- politics, diplomacy, journalism, the theatre, literature-so that he never found the thne to concentrate upon any one of - them. His energies were dissipated and he was regarded as an elegant and accomplished dilettante. In 1836 he was made an attache of the United States legation in London. During the following year he was in Paris and secured many of the per- sonal effects of Napoleon I to take back to Joseph Bonaparte in London. He subsequently received a decoration from the Queen of Spain; hence arose the title of \Chevalier\ by which he was known to many Americans. When one of hi's theatrieal friends who had contracted to bring the celebrated dance Fanny Eissler to America died, Wikoff, who had ·been assisting him in the negotiations, assumed the responsibility. Acting as her friend and impressario, he tolll\ed with her in the States and Havana for two years-greatly contributing to the success of her American tour in 1840. During the nex:t decade he became somewhat of a tran- satlantic commuter, visiting France and England yearly and maintaining his social and political contacts. He was said by persons of discernment to have k:nown more important unwritten political history than any other person of his time. For a short time in 1849 he was editor of the Democratic Review; the same year he published Napoleon Louis Bonaparte, First President of France, an illuminating book on Louis Napoleon, of whom he was an ardent partisan and a devoted friend. While in England in 1850 he was per- suaded by Lord Palmerston to become an agent of the British Foreign Office. During the next year Wikoff. was successful in modifying the anti-British tone of two important Parisian newspapers: La Presse and Le Sieele. Beyond this, he tried to prornote a fraternal alliance between the United States and Great Britain. He was zealous ~and indiscreet, so that after a year Palmerston gave up \the Yankee. diplomat.\ In 1851 Wikoff was about to marry Jane C. Gamble, an American , heiress reisdent in London. The day before the wedding She left London and went to_ Genoa, where Wikoff found her. They were recon- ciled; the lady again changed her mind; and \the Chevalier\ attempted a friendly-abduction. His fiancee appealed to the British consul, who had Wikoff arrested and thrown into jail. The lady repented and w:ged clemency, but the consul, probably acting upon in- structions fromLondon, pressed the prosecution, which resulted in a sentence of imprisonment. British influence defeated all moves toward a pardon and Wikoff finally spent more than fifteen months in a common jail in Genoa. These experiences produced his best known book: My Courtship and Its ,. Con- sequences ( 1855 ). The same theme was flU'ther elaborated in The , Adventures of, a Roving Diplomatist (1857). He engaged in a pamphlet dispute with Palmerston in 1861, on the question o£ American slavery, publishing Secession, and Its Causes, in a Letter to Viscount Palmerston, and issued Memoir of Ginevra Guerrabella, an account of the actress Genevieve Ward (q.v.), in 1863. His most important literary production, The Reminiscences of an Idler (18800), is filled with charming anecdotes and many profound observations about his life prior to the year 1840. In this work, Wikoff comments on his years at Princeton. \I doubt if I could have learned less if I had been allowed to linger four years longer in Princeton, and to bask: in idleness under the lofty shade of the fine old campus, the pride of the college.\ So much for the academic quality of the Ivy League schools. Unfortunately, failing health prevented the completion of his memoirs. Paralysis ended the life of Union's most famous dilettante. In keeping with the extreme good form of a dandy, the Chevalier Henry Wikoff died at Brighton, England; the twenty-eighth of April, 1884, and was buried in the Extra-Mural Cemetery, overlooking the Royal Pavilion. - -- - T ~ j ! '

Fi'l'ZHUGH LUDLOW D'A Y,1981 FitzHugh Ludlow Day 1982 .. , .To the Faculty and i: ·I LIBRARY LIBRARY SOUTHSIDE CHESTER CARNEGIE Staff: FIEl-D PLAZA of the NOTT ARTHUR i You and your family ' are cordially invited .to I spend a.·n enjoyable. 11:00 afternoon on the Union ! DELTA VOLLEYBALL ' Colle9e Campus. I hope you will help me i;n honoring Henry Wikoff, GAMMA Class of 1832. 12:00. AND -HOT DOGS- .' -FHL OLYMPlCS ICE= CREAM . ' . Special thanks go ' 1:00 . ' ASSORTED • ! : l out to President p -HAMBURGERS- A _ Morris, Dean MUSICAL R 2:00 CHAIRS A Spring and the GAMES T R 0 T-SHIRTS Student Forum 0 p TWISTER for their moral 3:00 E -CHIPS- R and financial support. THE 4:00 ' . DADS ' - BRING -- -PUNCH- PAINTER'S HATS YOUR MEAL CARD 5:00 SAM DID/10 . . IMPORTANT. 6:00 -MYSTERY- - -BAND- Your Union I.D. will be required to ride the 7:00 ' \PARATROOPER\ Credit is due to the distinguished authors. Margret Leech and A. ~ 9:00 FIREWORKS Delvarve and to the . Dictionary of American Biographies. Wikoff the Social Spy: Undesired The disreputable Henry Wikoff, a glittering, middle· aged scapegrace who had en· joyed all the gifts of life save stability of character, was the \soCial spy\ whom the New York Herald had planted in the White House during the presidency of Abraham Lin- coln. By virtue of his ac- complishments abroad, not to mention his captivating charm, he was able to enter Mrs. Lincoln's social circle It is easier to understand Wikoff's attraction for Mrs. Lincoln than his own willingness to engage in a shabby employment, whose remuneration he did not need. On the other hand, he was in such disrepute that. ordinary discretion should have prevented the President's wife from an intimate association with him. Wikoff showed the utmost assurance in his appeals to the vanity of the mistress of the White House. WikoH's position as secret representative for the New York Herald led to his second arrest in ten years. (He was arrested and spent over fifteen months in a corrunon jail in Genoa, Italy, for attempting to abduct his fiancee in 1851.) In December, 1861, Gongress had been disquieted ·oy the f!lct that a portion of the President's message had been reported in the New York Herald in ad- vance of its communication to Congress; and the House Committee on the Judiciary had been directed to investigate \the alleged censorship over the telegraph.\ The chairman of the committee was John Hickman of Pennsylvania, a sharp and skillful politician who had emerged from affiliation with the Democratic party to become an extreme anti- slavery Republican, notably unfriendly to Lincoln. Hickman subpoenaed the Chevalier Wikoff, who admitted that he had fned the dispatch to the Herald, but refused to give the source of his information. Charging into the House · in irritation, Hickman ,induced his colleagues to adopt a resolution that Wikoff should be arrested. The sergeant-at-arms brought the Chevalier to the bar of the House to answer to a charge of contempt. Wikoff remained discreet. He told the Speaker that he had received his in- formation \under an obligation of strict secrecy,\ and he was sent to the Old Capitol prison.· Wikoff's intimacy with Mrs. Lincoln was well known, and the impression prevailed that she had shown him the President's message, and permitted him to copy portions of it for the Herald. After consulting his counsel, Wikoff made a surprising confession. He said that John Watt, the head gardener at the White House~ had been his in- formant. Watt, appearing .,before t~e committee in his turn, told a tale of having peeped at the President's message in the library. He explained that the ex- traordinary tenacity of his memory had enabled him to repeat portions of it verbatim to Wikoff on the following day. From this sensational story, the New York Herald extracted every drop of news value. In the fact of all the evidence, it disowned any connection with Wikoff, hld him up to ~idicule, and blandly professed that its foreknowledge of the President's message had been \a shrewd .surmise.\ The Herald also derided Hickman and ''his kitchen committee,\ and righteously declared that the abolitionists were resorting to \an infamous attempt to break up the domestic relations of the President, and sow misery in his family.'' In another editorial, headed \The Satanic Elem·ent of the AboUtionists Assailing the President T'l\rough His Family,\ it was stated that \they invade the sacred privacy of his home, and seek to infuse poison into his domestic relations by scandalous in- sinuations.\ After receiving a letter from Wikoff, the Herald hinted that \a lady bad called on him in prison.\ The newspaper further asserted that Congressman Hickman, at the introduction of Watt's name, had asked in disappointment, \Then it was not one of the President's family, after all?\ Years later, Perley Poore made a statement which must have reflected the information current among newspapermen at the time of the Hickman investigation. \ . . . Mr. Lincoln had visited the Capitol, and urged the Republicans on the Committee to S}lare him disgrace, so Watt's improbably story was received and Wikoff was liberated.\ Events had combined to end Wikoff's usefulness ·as the Herald's spy at the White House, and he disappeared from Washington.

Page 8 OONCORDIENSIS, Md1J so; 198B . - - .. Edit<1rials Letters More Red Tape Petitions have been circulating addressing the display case issue recently brought before President l orris. The debate began when the ~tudent Affairs Coun cU made a recommendation to the Administration stating that the Library's display cases should be available for student exhibitions. The President rejected the proposal· by the Council to the surprise of all parties. The SAC i•s made up of both students and faculty. ·--~~~· L '\-1 :-:~ ' ·' ~- •. The issue was apparently rejected by the \'resident because such a recommendation ex- 1 eeded the juriscHction of the Student Affairs \ 'ouncil. But who does have jurisdiction over this 4udent·related nt>edi? Perhaps the Academic .\ffairs Council should have taken on the problem. The Student Consti.tution does not mention the duties of Uw AAC, but it has been traditionally wncerned with academic questions. The question .,f the display rases is not an academic policy decision. The Student Forum had made its statement when 1t supported the original SAC recommendation. .Presently, its members are drafting a letter of polite protest. Thus, ,proper channels appear to he exhausted. The petition is the last formal response of the student body. And yet, nothing further has been done by the Administration. Regardless of whose jurisdiction this matter falls under, the idea is sound and productive. Why shouldn't the students have a place to display their own creations? It appears that bureaucratic red tape is interfering with the betterment of the community. Occasionally, formality works against an idea whose time has come. Sing Our Praises It is rewarding to feel that we havP accomplished something significant for the College community. An editorial last week portrayed the plight of the Photo Club and as a result, action has been taken to rectify the situation. The Administration, specifically John Hauser, the Vice President for Finance and Administration, and Jack Litynski, Director of Campus Planning and Development, assured the Club that new darkroom facilities would be provided cost free. The Administration should be commended for its quick and effective action. But let this predicament be a lesson for the future. Money was needlessly wasted for the construction of a darkroom which was only to be destroyed after completion. In future planning, studentactivities and their needs must be considered not only to be fiscally sound but also courteous. We graciously accept the praise of the Photo Club and repeat our commitment to the students and faculty. If we can be of help to remedy a situation, our doors are always open. Though we cannot promise one hundred percent satisfaction, we shall try our best. Pushy Pl-ess . Congratulation.s are extended to all those vic- torious in the student government elections. We look forward to a good working relationship with the Forum in the upcoming year. Just to keep you on your toes, we will be looking over your shoulders like Big Brother. Don't be shocked to find tape recorders in yoar showers. To get you off the streets, we offer some small suggestions. Let's get some Student Government Association By-Laws before the College matriculates Martians. By-Laws will make meetings run smoothly by providing standardized procedures and also ensure the equal application of rules. Thus, the Forum will not have to revert to ''ordeal by death.\ Also, please do .something about the distribution of Student Funds. We would hate to have to resort to body searcll.es before and after committee meetings. All ideas should be considered thoroughly and new policy formulated to prevent the reoccurrence of this year's mishaps. Lastly, it was sug.gested during the elections that the Forum should be a little more accountable so that meetings couldn't be held in Pago Pago. The use of referendum would aid in formulating policy as well as lending support to many controversial decisions. \' Letter . Correccted To The Editors: Please allow my comment on a letter from Mr. Josh Lowry, printed in the May 13 issue of Conel)rdiensis. I refer . to the first paragraph, where he calls our attention to a m.atter of plagiarism by . ~ freshman, which occurred in 1979. As I calculate it, Mr. Lowry was a junior in high school at the time, so his source of information must be thf;l \good friend'' mentioned in his first sentence. Since Lowry is dead wroog on almost every fact, I suggest that he refrain from com- menting on something he knows nothing about- or at least find a more truthful friend. By grat11itously (and irrelevantly} including this misinformation, Lowry calls into questiOJl the fairness of treatment of that student. Since I happened to know the facts of the incident, I must be the one to protest Lowry's charges, on behalf of all of us. Lowry says the student \used (only) the references\ of another student, and br that alone \had her career at Union wrecked.\ · N3t true. Anyone who examined the two papers in- volved would see that one was a clearly and deliberately plagiarized version of the other. which had been submitted the term before. No subtlety of judgment was needed; the matter was open-and-shut, plain as the blush that should emerge on Mr. Lowry's face. Lowry implies that it was fQr this action alone that the student was expelled. Not true again, on two counts. First, the student had. done ore~cis:eL.vr tble same in the . .. , . ·~~f[~V~::\_\::,_~i'·;,;<' , . '-- . . :, ~,~ ·the authar Qf that line. ebeckmgl.Ill: .. 's,mythesis woqli;J · However,. i\. ba$ , d a , · · i:~hed in. hailf ~e ::~*j ::tt~~ t~ pen up,f:\'. . fL g .. ~: ~~··i$ ~:?~ld , derense of. · · · . '\' . · .. · ,.. ·· :~ne. \'~1oyed by tJniun bas a lot til' offer,. bUt s· and Ind~])¢ndents alike .. the dr-awbacks that. exist . here But when the paint(ld aYlllbQls seem. at times. t'() oversnadow: ' start appearing oo.trees~ door&, thooe p!}Sitlve. QS~CtS~ . . \ . ·-WJI~S, stgns.tll\Cl:<lfS, PQSt$, ~nd Scllaeffer Libtary?ts a· ·$tudy · · atlier ar~$:·A11 ()'Ver campus, l in irony: tables . ave used as believe something should be soeial conveniences and those done. As long as .such behavior · wh<> go to the library t~> study ·. is n<lt corre<!ted it 'is, in effe&t are hard JW'f:lssed tq ftnd a quiet being pt;lssively encouraged.. A area in which to study. The strong, sense of group staff, meanwhile, seems to be. comraderie and fellowship is oblivi.ous to this.. - · great; senseless defaeement ()f Pre-registration at Union · definitely. needs Improvement. Union is the Gnly ~ehool I know of where no {)reference is given to uppercl:ass students in pre- registering. Instead of having separate days for -the pre-· registering of each class we end up with the thrice-yearly 5 a.m. ritual. IPs sad that a stud-ent can find an Associate Dean of Faculty that also believes the system is poor, yet nothing is changed or, to my knowledge, reviewed. The ·intramural office has never SEemed overly strQng tb me. They do a fair ·'job- of creatingschedul~s for hundredS· of intraJUural teams, but on many of the occasions when' I have wanted to play basketball I've found the courts packed with non-Unionites of all ages. When I approach a student elllployee 'of the intramural department I am fold that all of these people are \regulars and are, de facto, entitled to the- CQurts. While 1 either wait for a court to open up or walk back to my room I often . Chuckle to myself about the signs poSted in the gyms marked \Union students only - LD. '·s must be shown.\ If I bad bad the job 9f Acting Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor News Editors Features Editor Arts & Cult me Editors Cainpus Page Editors Copy-Editor National News Editor Women's Sports Editor Sports Editors Assistant Sports Editor Photo Editors Photography Consultant Cartoonist· college property is asinine. This brings up a larger point- that of \reapect •. rve seen .it lacking U!· · regards to both,. . college property and towards individuala. Tbe,former I -end liP financially . supporting by paying far the repairs wrought by -vandalism and other ~bues. ·The latter seems to be bfised·lln whatever differences happen to . appear, be they racia4 religinus or sexual. Although I am told that what I see as,Ahe laek of respect in two'f0Fms !s simply \fun u ,nr ;~'joking,\ I believe that sufficient methods for both are available that dQ · n€1t ·financially strap me or morally offend me .. , Sounds like a sermon, hUh? Well that may be tr·ue~ but at le-ast by doing this I have voiced my opinions in a non-apath~tic, non-Unionesque manner. If I am wrong or have offended anyone, I apologize. ~By domg this. though~ I have followed two measures by which I often judge things. What's the otller one, you ask? \To thine ownsell· be true. u ;: Sincerely, John Hartz-ell Class of1982lh' · A.J. Brodsky, DiannePava<:ic Julianne Abelman Marcy Burstiner, Doug Land<m Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredollia Charis Richards D;C.Owens Cindy J. Tenner Kathy Bentley Drew Hurley, Rob Nortcm Rick Sapir JaneCav~ier, Linda Wallen Richf.U'd A. Sher David Neiblwn · Staff . if oey Beckerman, Norman Birnbach, Thomas Ching, Jodi Cohen, Vadim E., Tim Em~wiler, David Fitzgerald, . . Do~ Getson, P .S. Grrsdansky, Betsy Modest, · • Peter Mohr, Jennifer Paston, Gayle Rosenfeld, Eric Ruben Martin Sands, Frankl_in Sc~eider, Michael Sharp, Linda Sher: Judie Stemhardt; Steve Verp, Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne, David Wollin, Robert 'l'.·Weisenburg Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris III, Chris Eshelman Photo Staff Keith Dean, JanetGuiliano, Mary Mmtin, Pam Meyers, Norman Pflaster. Lisa Stern ceNC01tD~.~NSIS i(; p,ubli~he,d. every 'inur. Sdfl;Y . .9Y. the stud.e!ft .. of Umofi Cpllege, Carnegie Hall, Schenedady; New Y~ Pablic~tions Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc:;- Bo~ 388, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the I:Sc~nenec:ta<Jty Post Office as third cl~ss matter. Subscriptionrate: cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the U11ited ..... v .• .,..,...,&~.·JU'A.a.:.tl'l subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). . ( ·I .:·;·' I am Photo j the ·st Cone&r Dark.'! article plaints memo darkro being l and tb equipn Ian withV and Hause· Plann Jack l benefi· wUli~ for tb will in darkrl which the b constr woulc Litym behinl admit assist finlpl( LastlJ stay j until TherE {such may darkr term. Her being the s wish.: Studl cortli' thisl

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, May SO, 198£ Editorials Letters More Red Tape Petitions have been circulating addressing the display case issue recently brought before President ~:orris. The debate began when the Student Affairs Council made a recommendation to the Administration stating that the Library's display cases should be available for student Pxhibitions. The President rejected the proposal by the Council to th€' surprise of all parties. The SAC is made up of both students and faculty. The is!5ue was apparently rejected by the I 'resident beeaust> such a recommendation ex- ' t>eded the JUrisrtiction of the Student Affairs \ 't>uncil. But who does have jurisdiction over this ~tudent-relatect rwed? Perhaps the Academic Affairs Council should have taken on the problem. The Studt>nt ( 'onst itution does not mention the duties of ttw AAC. but it has been traditionally l oncerned with academic questions. The question \f thf? display cases is not an academic policy decision. The Student Forum had made its statement when 1t supported the original SAC recommendation. Presently, its members are drafting a letter of polite protest. Thus. proper channels appear to be Pxhausted. The petition is the last formal response of the student body. And yet. nothing further has been done by the Administration. H.egardless of whose jurisdiction this matter falls under. tht:> idea is sound and productive. Why shouldn't the students ha \·e a place to display their own creations'? It appears that bureaucratic red tape is interfering with the betterment of the community. Occasionally, formality works against an idea whose time has come. Sing Our Praises It is rewarding to feel that we have accomplished something significant for the College community. An editorial last week portrayed the plight of the Photo Club and as a result, action has been taken to rectify the s itua lion. The Administration, specifically John Hauser, the Vice President for Finance and Administration. and Jack Litynski. Director of Campus Planning and Development. assured the Club that new darkroom facilities would be provided cost free. The Administration should be commended for its quick and effective action. But let this predicament be a lesson for the future. Money was needlessly wasted for the construction of a darkroom which was only to be destroyed after completion. In future planning, student activities and their needs must be considered not only to be fiscally sound but also courteous. We graciously accept the praise of the Photo Club and repeat our commitment to the students and faculty. If we can be of help to remedy a situation, our doors are always open. Though we cannot promise one hundred percent satisfaction, we shall try our best. Pushy Press . Congratulations are extended to all those vic- torious in the student government elections. We look forward to a good working relationship with the Forum in the upcoming year. Just to keep you on your toes, we will be looking over your shoulders like Big Brother. Don't be shocked to find tape recorders in your showers. To get you off the streets, we offer some small suggestions. Let's get some Student Government Association By-Laws before the College matriculates Martians. By-Laws will make meetings run smoothly by providing standardized procedures and also ensure the equal application of rules. Thus, the Forum will not have to revert to \ordeal by death.\ Also, please do something about the distribution of Student Funds. We would hate to have to resort to body searches before and after committee meetings. All ideas should be considered thoroughly and new policy formulated to prevent the reoccurrence of this year's mishaps. Lastly, It was suggested during the elections that the Forum should be a little more accountable so that meetings couldn't be held in Pago Pago. The use of referendum would aid in formulating policy as well as lending support to many controversial decisions. .. • Letters ,.,.,., p. ... • Letter Corrected To The Editors: Please allow my comment on a letter from Mr. Josh Lowry, printed in the May 13 issue of Concordiensis. I refer to the first paragraph, where he calls our attention to a matter of plagiarism by ~ freshman, which occurred in 1979. As I calculate it,. Mr. Lowry was a junior in high school at the time, so his source of information must be the \good friend\ · mentioned in his first sentence. Since Lowry is dead wrong on almost every fact., I suggest' that he refrain from com- menting on something he knows nothing about - or at least find a more truthful friend, By gratuitously rand irrelevantly) including this misinformation, Lowry calls into question the fairness of treatment of that student. Since I happened to know the .facts of the incident. I must be the one to protest I A>wry' s char,ges, on .oohalf of all of us. Lowry says the student \used ronly) the references\ of another student, and for that alone ·'had bet career at Union wrecked.\ Not true. Anyone who · examined the two papers in\ volved would see that one was a clearly and deliberately plagiarized version of the other, which had been submitted the term before. No subtlety of judgment was need~d; the matter was open·and-shut, plain as the blush that should . emerge on Mr. Lowry's fa~e. Lowry implies that it was for this action alone that the student was expelled. · Not true again, on two counts. the author of that line. However, it has remained a favorite quote of mine and <me which I now take the pen up in defense of. Union has a lot to offer, but the drawbacks that exist here seem, at times, to overshadow those positive aspects. Schaeffer Library is a study in irony: tables are used as social conveniences and those who go to the library to study are hard pressed to find a quiet area in which to study. The staff, meanwhile, seems to be oblivious to this. Pre-registration at Union definitely needs improvement. Union is the only school I know of wttere no preference is given to upperclass students in pre- registering. Instead of having separate days for the pre- registering of each class we end up with the thrice-yearly 5 a.m. ritual. It's sad that a student can find an Associate Dean of Faculty that also believes the system is poor, yet nothing is changed or, to my knowledge, reviewed. The intramural .office has never seemed overly strong to me.. They do a .fair job of creating schedules for hundreds· of mtramural teams, but on rnany of the occasions when I have wanted to play basketball I've found the courts packed with non-Unionites of all ages. When I approach a student employee of the intramural department I am told that all of these people are \regulars;\ and are, de facto, entitled to the courts. While I either wait for a court to open up or walk back to my room I often . chuckle to myself about the signs posted in the gyms marked \Union students only - I. D.'s must be shown.'' l£ I had had the job 9f clleclting LD, 's my th'tlsis would have been finished in half the time it took. ' Painting the id<>l is an old tr.aditioo - one enjoyed by Qreeks .and Independents alike. But when the painted symbols start appearing on trees, doors, _walls, signs, tractors. posts, and oUter areas aU over campus, I believe something should be done. A.s long as such behavior is not corrected it is, in effect being passively encouraged. A strong sense of group comraderie and fellowship is .great; senseless defacement of college pr{lperty is asinine. This brings up a larger point - that of respect. rve seen it lack:ing in regards to both ... oollege property and towards individuals. The forme!:\ I end up financially supporting by p..aying for the repairs wronght l>y vandalism and otller abU$es. The latter seems to be based on whatever differences happen to appear, be they racial, religious ()f sex:ual. Although I arn told that what I see as .the lack of respect in two forms is simply '\fun or ·\joking I believe that sufficient meth()ds for both are available that do not financially strap me or morally offend me. Sounds like a sermon, huh'? Well that may be true, but at least by doing this I have voiced my opinions in a non-apathetic, non~Unionesque manner. If I am wrong or have offended anyone, I apologize. By doing this, though, I have followed two measures by which I often judge things. What's the other one, you ask? \T(l tbine ownself be true. n Sincerely, JohnHartzeH Class of 19821;2 First, the student had done ..... ----:.'!-------------------..J preci$ely the same thing in the ..; fall term of that year. For that she had been reprimanded, in the hope that she had learned the seriousness of her action. A reoccurrence six months later made it quite proper to refer the matter to the Committee on the Standing of Students for its consideration. Second, this student was not actually expelled, though she probi'l bly would have been if the Committee had heard the case. Instead, she chose to withdraw voluntarily from the College. Misinformation in letters to the Concordy is not so rare as to be worth answering every time. But since Mr. Lowry impugns the fairness of proc~dutes ill' matters like this, I think the community needs to know that this was not a single rnis~step by an innocent freshman. ·· Mr. Lowry owes us ,an apology t I think. Alan Nelson Associate Dta11 of Undergraduate Stadies For Better Or For Worse· To the Editors: Somewhef'e in my four yeus of college education I eame across the quote \The highest form of . patriotism is criticism.\ It has be~n at least two years since l have forgotten Acting Editors-in-Chief Managing Editor News Editors Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors Copy Editor National News Editor Women's Sports Editor Sports Editors Assistant Sports Editor Photo Editors Photography Consultant Cartoonist A.J. Brodsky, Dianne Pavacic Julianne Abelman Marcy Burstiner, Doug Landon Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards D.C. Owens Cindy J. Tenner Kathy Bentley Drew Hurley ,Rob Norton Rick Sapir Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Richard A. Sher David Neiblurn · Staff ~oey Becke~an, N~rman Birnbach, Th()mas Ching, Jodi Cohen, Vadim E., Tliil Emswiler, David Fitzgerald Donna Getson, P.S. Girsdansky. Betsy Modest' Peter Mohr, Jennifer Pas ton, Gayle Rosenfeld Eric Ruben' Martin Sands, Franklin Schlleider, Michael Sharp Linda Sher' JudieSteinhardt,SteveVerp, B;bVan V()ris' Susan Wayne, David Wollin, Robert T. Weisenburg Subscriptions E. Wesley Harris III, Chris Eshelman Photo Staff Keith Dean, Janet Guiliano, Mary Martin, Pam Meyers, NonnanPflaster, Lisa Stem CONC~DIENSIS is ppblished every 1 nursday J;>y the studeqt body of Union Cpllege, Carnegie Hall, Scheneetady, New Y~k; 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc:; Bo'X' 388, Sidney, New York, 138:38, {607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United J)tates. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS) ami utilizes the College News :Bureau (CNB). ' . I:· I:, ' ' I an Photo the s Co nco Dark. artiel1 plaint mem< darkr being and tl equip1 I aJ with' and Haus1 Plan• Jack benef willin for tl willi1 darkr whicl the t const wotil . Lityn behir admi ass is . finan . Lastl stay until Ther (sud may dark . term He bein1 the : ·wish Stud cord , this c To u \St isst gro No mu JoE . ma we1 por · the JOE fail tru the nm pre I me acl afc qu mE ch No ani ha· Sa pe: . SCI . Rc thl ov co ch pe ·an tb

CONOORDfE'NSlS, May eo, 1982 Page 9 COlllllleQtary p Letters Editorials . . . . . . Grotnu~e ... ·. :~::.~ .. •.· ·p··. ~e·JI!!Io. •. · .e·a. ·d· ·. .: .. ,_lin .-.-~ ·J<'VW·tBV I am writing in regard to the Photo Club darkroom sit tion, thtf · subject ·of the , · .1\f' Conc&rdieasis editorial ''Club 1rr Dark.\ As the editorial aria the article \Forum Hears Com· plaints\ Stated, t received a memo informing me that our darkroom in Silliman Hall is being -demolished in early June and that we must remove our equipment. · ~. '·. I am pleased . that '·tne.etings with Vice President f<ir Finance music and additional east , . members, oo· it positive (as r fool it well deserved) or negative, ·was unwarranted. The cast· was not too 'large to receive full acknowledgment from €oneordlensis. A review inusl be IOOre complete and !urtber at.tempt tu analyZe those tnvolved m a production of this sort. · ·'· .. ··. _:-·: ..:. -Forum ActiorL Condemned To a Concerned Campus: At the Student · Forum Naomi Blank '84 meeting this past Monday f the Raffle A Success and Administration J Ghn To the Campus Co~untty: Hauser and Director of Campus Student Forum informed the WRUC Executive Board that tbey were removing Jeff Mit- chell from bis Sunday evening radio show. Although we feel that previous Forum decisions concerning Jeff Mitohell, with respect to '•The Awesome Band Party,\ were based upon misinformation and a lack of insight into the worldngs of WRUC, their decision this past Monday represents tbe most blatant misuse of power to date. TfJ,e Forum decismn to remove Jeff Mitchell from any decisi<m- making position at WRUC has been upheld. Nevertheless, throughout this controversy, there has never been a question raised regarding Mr. Mitchell's o~r-air capabilities. Why then is the Forum prohibiting Jeff Mitchell from performing his duties .as a. dise jocjtey of WRUC? Planning and Development The Brothers,_ Pledges and Jack Litynski were extremely ·- Uttle Sisters of Phi Sigma bem~fidal. In snort, they are Kappa would like to thank all willing to meet an the concerns thnse who contributed to our for tbe Phto Club. They are charity raffle. Through your willing· to either find a generosity we were able to raise darkroom already on campus over $1,000.00 for the Juvenile which is not used, possibly in Diabetes Foundation. Thanks the basement of West, or to again and we look for your construct a new darkroom. This support again next year. · would,· according to Mr. Litynskif be in Haskins Lab behind North. In addition, the administration is willing to assist witl.l the move, and_ to fin;;mce the new darkroom! LaStly, they ate willing to let us stay in our• present darkroom until the end of the term. Therefore students and clubs (such as the Freshman Record) may continue using the darkroom until the end of the term. Hence, the administration is being very helpful in rectifying the situation. The Photo Club wishes to t}:lank them, the Student Forum and Con- . cordi:ensis for their support in this m~tter. Sincerely Michael Newman President, U .C. Photo Club •• •' ••• • • .- •• ,,r • Sincerely yours P-tilter DiGiorgio Phi Sigma Kappa Charity Chairman Signatories Thanked To the Edit<1rs: We don't know. However. it is clear to us that the Forum's decision is a paradoxical one, Just minutes before &rdedng Mr. Mitchell's termination as a disc jockey, the Forum ratified the new WRUC constitution. · The constitution clearly states The purpose of this letter is to that the power to remove a DJ thank the campus community · from the air is solely held by for the support and courtesy we . ,!luly elected Executive Board have received while petitioning members. How · then can the for a mutual freeze on nuclear Forum approve one set of weapons by the US and the guid·elines;- while USSR. Not only were we sur- simultaneously acting in a prised by the number of people manner which contradicts these who sign~d the petition, but we same guidelines? The issue were also impressed . by tbe here is not whether a particular ,beha:viqr tfLthO.ie~.whf.l\disagreed. ... individual should he . . . . . ···witb,\us. m,Jil'Xi: .. , .. ,, ·- . i'\6&\:#t?\\¥%WW\~~'iW .. 4iJ9iDl Elections for the positions of Editors-in-Chief of CONCORDIENSIS for Fall and Winter terms 1982-83. will be held on Tuesday, May 25th at 8:30p.m. All interested persons should submit their names to Mrs; Lorraine Marra in the Student Activities Office by Monday, May 24th. Commentary: Sex, Union Style By NORMAN BIRNBACH Columnist-a telarge In our last episode,. \Love Union Style,\ which was printed in the April 29th Con- cordiensis-for those of you who have a collection of back issues- -we looked at the social life at Union. For those of you who foolishly threw out that issue, I will recount the main points. First of all, there are problems with the social life at Union. The problems range from trouble meeting the person of your dreams to trouble once \things\ begin. The initialproblem,is meeting the person of your dreams. The question isn't how you meet your princess in white or your kni.ght in shining armor-- whichever the case-but where. You meet your friends at the Pub for drinks, or go over to the Skellar, but you don't really m.eet someone new at either place. At the Pub, with its booths, the atmosphere is too intimate for it to be any good as a singles bar. And the Sltellar is too impersonal; when the Skellar is crQwded,there's no room to make moves on anyone. There is the library, but you're only on the xer()lt line for so long. · At parties, people are there to make the scene and to look cool while doing so. The best way to look cool at a fraternity party is to have a glass of beer in your hand. And you just can't hold onto your beer for too long; you have to drink some of it too. The point of all that is that it's hard to start a relationship when one is in- toxicated-at least one that will last. However, people do meet other people at the Skellar and at parties, and through classes and club activities-at least those involved in any~ either, or both. And once the initial problem is overcome, you're not home free; there are other problems. There are problems other than everybody knowing about everyone else's business. You may not have met a person before, yet you can know who she's gone out with. Reputations around Union ab()und. But that's not a major problem. There is also the problem with the male to female ntio, but it goes beyond the fact that there are fewer girls than guys; after all, there is Skidmore. The problem is that there are more guys than girls on campus. Girls are less willing to commit themselves when tllere is the possibility of somoone better coming along the next day. Girls can play the field simply because there is a field to play on; that's not really so for the guys. But say you have gotten beyond that point: You have met a person who may not have been in your dreams, but who would certainly not be in your nightmares. Still, you're not problem-free. In \Love Union Style,\ I wrote that while there are a lot of differences between high school and colleges, relations between the sexes isn't one of them. What I meant was the initial encounters are relatively similar. There is, however, one major difference. The difference is sexual. The word \sex\ comes from Middle English by way of the Latin word \sexus.\ As defined by Merriam-Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary, sex is a ''sexually motivated phenomena or behavior.\ Sex appears to be a relatively simple matter; its definition is only five words long--how complicated can it be? Sex is merely \sexually motivated phenomena.\ However, in sixth grade, Mrs. Lindsey told me not to.define a word by a derivative one. Therefore, \sexual\ needs defining. \Sexual\ is anything \of relating to, or associated · with sex or the sexes (- differentiation) (-conflict).\ It is the differentiation that creates the conflicts-the dif- ferentiation of how the sexes define the word sex and how it applies. What causes the con- flicts is the differences of at- titudes, For some, sex is a three-letter word that belongs to the group of four-letter words that you also don't use or talk about. For others, sex is what you discuss when the weather as a topic is no longer in- teresting. But each person has a different concept of sex and what that means to him. The problem with relationships is getting the differences in sexual attitudes to no longer be dif- ferences. And that is where the pmblem is. The problem is that too many people have been hurt, and don't want to repeat the ex- perience. They withdraw, and play it safe. This doesn't occur only at Union, but it happens a lot here, with the emphasis on going to a fraternity party, getting drunk, and having fun. You can't always have fun in relationships. In fairy tales, the last line is always \And they lived happily ever after.'' But that's in fairy tales; in real life, it doesn't always end that way. An Informational Meeting for 1982-83 Washington Term Today at 4:30 Social Sciences 11 5 Applicatipns will be available at the meeting and in the Poli\rical Science Department Office, 216 Social Sciences.

i' If OONOORDIENSIS, May 20, 198S Page 9 COilliQe:Qtary ~ Letters ~ <Editorials .. ,.,... Letters .,.,... Gratitude Expressed I am writing in regard to the Photo Club darkroom situation, the subject of the May 13 Conconliensis editorial \Club ln Dark.\ As the editorial and the article \Forum Hears Com· plaints\ stated, I received a memo informing me that our darkroom in Silliman Hall is being demolished in early June and that we must remove our equipment. I am pleased . that· meetings with Vice President for Finance and Administration John Hauser and Director of Campus Planning and Development Jack Litynski were extremely . beneficial. In short, they are willing to meet all the concerns for the Phto Club. They are . willing to either find a darkroom already on campus which is not used, possibly in the basement of West, or to construct a new darkroom. This • would, according to Mr. . Litynsld,. be in Haskins Lab . behind North. In addition, the administration is willing to assist with the move, and_ to finance the new darkroom! · Lastly, they are willing to let us stay in our· present darkroom • until the end ·Of the term. · Therefore students and clubs (such as the Freshman Record) may continue using the darkroom until the end of the term. Hence, the administration is being very helpful in rectifying the situation. The Photo Club wishes to tnank them, the · Student Forum and Con· cordiensis for their support in this matter. Sincerely Michael Newman President, U.C. Photo Club Credit Where It Is Due To the Editors: Upon reading the review of \Student Bodies\ Lnlast week's issue of Concordiens-is I found a gross injustice had occurred. No reference to the original music and lyrics created by Joel Beckerman was ever · made. As a result, many people • were unaware of a very im- portant aspect of the play and · the valuable contribution that Joel made. The reviewer's failure to acknowledge some truly beautiful songs as well as the lively \Friday Night Out'' · number mistreated the student production as a whOle. ln addition to the cast members who· were acknowledged . in the music and additional cast members, be it positive (as I feel it well deserved) or negative; was unwarranted. The cast was not too large to receive full acknowledgment from Con~ordiensls. A review must be more complete and further attempt to analyze those involved in a production of this sort. ~aomi Blank '84 Raffle A Success To the Campus Conununity: The Brothers, Pledges and Little Sisters of Phi Sigma Kappa would like to thank all those who contributed to our charity raffle. Through your generosity we were able to raise over $1,000.00 for the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation. Thanks again and we look for your support again next year. Sincerely yours Pmer DiGiorgio Phi Sigma Kappa Charity Chairman Signatories Thanked To the Editors: The purpose of this letter is to thank the campus community for the support and courtesy we have received while petitioning for a mutual freeze on nuclear weapons by the US and the USSR. Not only were we sur- prised by the number of people who signed the petition, but we were also impressed by the behavior of those who disagreed with us. With very few ex· ceptions, the campus c<~m· munity was interested and p()lite. At the time we are writing this letter, we already have abotrt 400 signatures, after only one afternoon of petitioning. We will c(}ntinue petitioning until we are sure that everyone on campus who is against the economic and moral nonsense of the arms race has had the chance to make their opinicms known. If any<~ne would like copies of the petition to cir· culate around dorms. frater- nities, sororities, or just among friends, feel free tQ call Tom Duffy or Dan Ryan at 372-2983. Once again, we would like to thank all of those who took time this afternoon to read our petition, and we would like to especially thank those who signed it. · Sincerely Dan Ryan Robin Seydel Tom Duffy Forum Action_ Condemned To a Concerned Campus: At the Student Forum meeting this past Monday, the Student Forum informed the WRUC Executive Board that they were removing Jeff Mit- chell from his Sunday evening radio show. Although we feel that previous Forum decisions concerning Jeff Mitchell, with respect to \The Awesome Band Party,'' were based upon misinformation and a lack of insight into the workings of WRUC. their decision this past Monday represents the most blatant misuse of power to date. The Forum decision to remove Jeff Mitchell from any decision· making position at WRUC has been upheld. Nevertheless, throughout this controversy, there has never been a question · raised regarding Mr. Mitchell's. on-air capabilities. Why then is the Forum prohibiting Jeff Mitchell from performing his duties as a disc jocjtey of WRUC? W€ don't know. However, it is clear to us that the Fonun's decision is a paradoxical one. Just minutes before ordering Mr. Mitchell's termination as a disc jockey, the Forum ratified the new WRUC constitution. The constitution clearly states . that the power to remove a OJ from the air is solely held by · duly elected E:xecutive Board . members. How then can the Forum approve one set of guidelines,- while simultaneously acting in a manner which C(}ntradicts these same guidelines? The issue here is not whether a particular individual should be permitted t{l be aDJ. Rather, the issue is whether the Student Forum has the right to disregard the autonomy of the WRUC Executive Board as granted them by the voting members of WRUC and the recently ratified constitution. This inconsistency displayed forces us to WQndet where their megalomaniacal abuse of power will end. Unfortunately, we are bound by the Student Forum's decision; therefore, we accept it. Nevertheless, we condemn their moral judgment. Therefore, we appeal to the. newly elected Student Forum to respect the autonomy of other. student-run organizations, in an effort to put to an end these useless and detrimental battles for power. We do not want any· power that is not our own - but we would. like to retain the control of the radio station that we have earned through our direct involvement with WRUC. . Respectfully submitted, The Executive Board of WRUC aforementioned article, other quality performances were made. Th~ ''alter .. ego\ type of r::::=====================~ characters por-trayed by Norman Birnbach, Scott Bloom, · and Leslie Nadel should not . Elections for the positions of · have been neglected-nor should Sally Jacobs' singing and . performance in the gameshow sequence. Neither Bonnie Rosenberg nor the members of the band should have been overlooked. · A local newspaper's in~ · compl~te listing of all of . the characters in a Union College performance may be expected · • and even accepted. However,· · the absence of criticism of the Editors-in-Chief of CONCORDIENSIS for Fall and Winter terms 1982-83. will be held on Tuesday, May 25th at 8:30p.m. All interested persons should submit their names to Mrs. Lorraine Marra in the Student Activities Office by Monday, May 24th. Commentary: Sex, Union Style By NORMAN BffiNBACH Columnist~at-large In our last episode, \Love Union Sty1e,\ which was printed in the April 29th Con- cordiensis-for those of you who have a collection of back issues- -we loeked at the social life at Union. For those of you who foolishly threw out that issue, I will recount the main points. First of all, there are problems with the social life at Union. The problems range from trouble meeting the person of your dreams to trouble once \things\ begin. The initial problem is meeting the person of your dreams. The question isn't how you meet your princess in white or yom knight in shining armor-· whichever the case-but where. You meet your friends at the Pub for drinks, or go over to the Skellar, but you don't really meet someone new at either place. At the Pub, with its booths, the atmosphere is too intimate for it to be any good as a singles bar. And the Skellar is too impersonal; when the Skellar is crowded, there's no room to make moves on anyone. There is the library, but you're only on the xerox line for so long. At parties, people are there to make the scene and to look cool while doing so. The best way to look cool at a fraternity party is to have a glass of beer in your hand. And you just can't hold onto your beer for too long; you have to drink some of it too. The point of all that is that it's hard to start a relationship when one is in· toxicated-at least one that will last. However, people do meet other people at the Skellar and at parties, and through classes and club activities-at least those involved in any, either, or both. And once the initial problem is overcome, you're not home free; there are other problems. There are problems other than everybody knowing about everyone else's business. You may not have met a person before, yet you can know who she's gone out with. Reputations around Union abound. But that's not a major problem. There is also the problem with the male to female ratio, but it goes beyond the fact that there are fewer girls than guys; after all, there is Skidmore. The problem is that there are more guys than girls on campus. Girls are less willing to commit themselves when there is the possibility of someone better coming along the next day. Girls can play the field simply because there is a field to play on; that's not reall.y so for the guys. But say you have gotten beyond that po~nt: You have met a person who may not have been in your dreams, but who weuld certainly not be in your nightmares. Still, you're not problem-free. In \Love Union Style,\ I wrote that while there are a lot of differences between high school and colleges, relations between the sexes isn't one of them. What I meant was the initial encounters are relatively similar. There is, however, one major difference. The difference is sexual. The word \sex\ comes from Middle English by way of the Latin word \sexus.\ As defined by Merriam·Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary, sex is a \sexually motivated phenomena or ~havior.\ Sex appears to be a relatively simple matter; its definition is only five words long--how complicated can it be? Sex is merely \sexually motivated phenomena.\ However, in sixth grade, Mrs. Lindsey told me not to define a word by a derivative one. Therefore, \sexual\ needs defining. \Sexual\ is anything \of relating to, or associated with sex or the sexes !- differentiation l (-conflict).\ It is the differentiation that creates the conflicts-the dif- ferentiation of how the sexes define the word sex and how it applies. What causes the con- flicts is the differences of at· titudes. For some, sex is a three-letter word that belongs to the group of four-letter words that you also don't use or talk about. For others, sex is what you discuss when the weather as a topic is no longer in· teresting. But each person has a different concept of sex and what that means to him. The problem with relationships is getting the differences in sexual attitudes to no longer be dif· ferences. And that is where the problem is. The problem is that too many people have been hm·t, and don't want to repeat the ex- perience. They withdraw, and play it safe. This doesn't occur only at Union, but it happens a lot here, with the emphasis on going to a fraternity party, getting drunk, and having fun. You can't always have fun in relationships. In fairy tales, the last line is always \And they lived happily ever after.\ But that's in fairy tales; in real life, it doesn't always end that way. An Informational Meeting for 1982-83 Washington Term Today at 4:30 Social Sciences 11 5 Applications will be avai I able at the meeting and in the Poli'iical Science Department Office, 216 Social Sciences.

>- .c 0 0 .l: 0.. Page 10 CONOORDIENSIS,. May SO, 1982 ~rts & · Culture Diane Sadak At Cabaret: Homegrown Music ByVADIME. Staff O.K. kids, how many decent Cabaret acts have you seen? Before you start pondering the question that perturbed many distinguished philosophers, consider first what makes a good. act. If I was stupid enough to say that any act that pleases the audience is great, someone would object that popularity and artistic merit are not the same thing. Then I suggest that originality, proper delivery, and technical proficiency can serve as an indication of talent. These criteria are applied to all performers-professional and amateur-and I see no reason to lower my standards for Cabaret. Many Cabaret performers prefer to just throw things together, unwilling to put in enougti time. Not surprisingly, the resulting performances are presentable only in a circle of friends. Too bad. May 13 Cabaret was only slightly better than the average in this respect. What am I supposed to say about a \band\ that has no name (Jodi Cohen-vocals, James Ward-bass, Mike Zanta- guitar, Mark Zanta-drums, Melissa Gold-piano), and copies a bunch of MOR top 40 tunes? Sure, I've heard every song before (Barracuda, Magic Man, Stop Dragging My Heart Around, Edge of 17, etc.), so I know when to clap. I know that they spent at least ten hours going over the charts, and learning how to play together, but to praise musicians for being able to read music is like praising college students for Not a smoker? Then DRINK being able to read their books. I can almost excuse their lack of originality because the ap- proach was not to , stimulate, rather entertain. This formula is dependable, if banal. However, someone should explain the meaning of stage presence to these newlyweds. Mike Zanta' s guitar playing was neariy spoiled by the incessant cliches, although his unpretentiousness exonerated him. James Ward was very nonchalant, and completely unenthusiastic. Melissa's piano playing was quite good, but hopelessly lost in the mix much of the time. Mark Zanta (compliments of Scotia High), kept things from falling apart with simple, yet solid drumming. At any rate, the opening band impressed me a bit more. Rachel Gertzog and Lee Glick- man performed· Three Months to Live, Amoeba Hop (Christine Lavin), Moonshadow ··(Cat Stevens), Airconditi9ner (J.T. ), The Choke (Eric Clapton), Gold Dust Woman (performed by both acts), but my favorite was the briefl, but spirited attempt to play reggae. For this number Rachel and Lee were joined· by Jim Etkin, Irwin Menken, Chris Becker and Bret Roberts. The reggae medley consisted of a -very interesting version of Neil Young's \Helpless with a section of \Rehumanize Yourself\ (Police). The \raindrops\ effect on the guitar was especially appropriate. Rachel was actually dancing onstage (when was the last time you saw that'?), and the overall effect was very authentic. $2.00 (It's a good cause) FOR CANCER 4X' s Beer Blast Band Party Thursday, May 27th Burgers & Dogs for licketholders . ~ . \ ·-- • - \\ ... ,._ .. ,4 ..... .10 .. 1,,_,...,... ~ • - ...... ---~- -~ .......... You're All Invited Bobby's friends would like to you to ioin th,m in celebrating · his .birthday. Shhh · it's a surprise. They promise lo entertJin you with their futile attempts to play matchmakers. The party starts at 8:00 pm on May 20M22, and May 27·29 at the NoH Memorial Theatre. Tickets are ·On sale in th~ Nott Box Office and Camegie Hall. Tickets cost $3.00 with an ID and $4.00 without an ID. y OPENS TONIGHT! A Musi~al Comedy To be Performed May 20-22 May 27-29 at 8:00 p.m. Tickets are on sale now at the Memorial box office and Carnegie Hall. Tickets are $3.00 for students and faculty, and $4.00 for the general· public. --~~---,~--v---~~ .. ATTENTlON PHOTOGRAPHERS: The Concert Committee is looking for a qualified photographer to shoot Camp Union. Please contact Larry Lieberman at 346-2654. · - AnENTION ANYONE: The Concert Committee needs students for backstage security during Camp Union .. ·Leave your name and phone no. with Mrs. Marra if interested . Rl Mar sooner that, t 14, :M Coffee people evenir folk rr Altt rooted music with r \SUiis numb Jorm ney\ with progr1 \Oper ease 1 compl picke comp ~flue Rand: hardl: 1: nota: Ill fascir Ql 0 Ma1 ..c: talent :t: Q) yet :::.! >- every .J:l curio 0 every -+- 0 ..1: prese 0.. to tall like ti of thE levef MoUil the ~ outsi relati most supp< year Reun undy persJ mak: a war coup] Iti, v (F

!: lll 0 ..r:. ·+- 'iii :::.! >- .0 0 .... 0 ..r:. c. ~ ; . CONOORDIENSIS~ May SO} 198B Page 11 ~rts & Culture Rust at Coffeehouse RABBI ·HAROLD KUSHNER TO 'SPEAK ByVADIME. Staff Mark Rust is a genius, aml the sooner everyone will recognize that, the better. Saturday, May 14, Mark performed in the Coffeehouse, delighting some 25 people who ~hose to spend an evening listening to excellent folk music. Although Mark'.s style is rooted in the grass~roots folk music, he is very comfortable with rather exotic guitar lines. \Sunset Chaser\ the opening number, was reminescent of Jorma's \Embryonic Jour- ney'', combining beautiful riffs with a complex chord progression. On the other hand, \Open Your Heart\ -showed his ease with piano, so no one can complain· that Mark is only a picker. Actually, his piano composition.s were clearly iiJfluenced by Billy Joel and Randy Newman, and these are hardly folk musicians. Mark is not a purist, and his songs are a fascinating collage. Mark Rust has a very unique talent-ability to write simple, yet poignant songs .about everyday occurences. With a curious eye, he examines everything around him, and presents the old themes with a totally different twist, much like the late !Jarry Chapin. One of the common themes, Mark's love for his little town-\Catskill Mountain High,\ is a tribute to the great land that only few outsiders know. Girl-boy relationships are the st~ple .of most of today's music, but suppose the couple are about 75 years old? In the \Class Reunion\ Mark explores the undying love affair from the perspective of the couple, making the listener really aware of the difficulties such a couple must face. It is rare to see such an honest WEST WILL NOT BE OPEN FOR BRUNCH THIS SATURDAY Breakfast WILL _be served at West Dining Hall from 8 am to 10 am Saturday, M.,ay 22nd. {ratzHugh Ludlow Day) performer as Mark. There he was, in old jeans and well-worn sneakers, every bit a human being. If there is such a thing as a \natural\ performer, I would not hesitate to say that Mark is a ''natural\ but it's obvious that Mark has dedicated much of his life to his music. What makes Mark great is his ability to communi-cate with the audience through his music. Every song he ,played was an original, and each told a little story. Often,. the stories were funny, like \Freedom of Childhood'', in which Mark looks at the world through the ,eyes of an 11-year old boy. However, Mark realizes that one can't stay young forever. · Time is merciless, and at best one c~n only accept aging with style. My favorite in the first set was \Le Chanson de Tempr\ or \Song of Time\. This composition was perfomred on the hammer dulcimer, which sounds like a cross between guitar and piano. Each note seemed to chase the preceeding note, but never quite catch up. 'The second set started off with the \Musician's Mother\- a tribute to (whom else!) Mark's mother, and it was the perfect Mother's Day gift. It turned out that May 21 was - Mark's birthday, and he took the opportunity to teach a new birthday theme that he wrote. I enjoyed seeing a real human being on a stage, for it was · obvious that \Postcard from Martha Green\ expressed a genuine fear that that single moment of joy may be lost forever. Still, if I had to pick a theme song for the evening, it would be \The Families Came to Sing.\ All shall perish from under the sky, gnly the music shall live, never to die. Author of New York Times Best Seller When Bad Things Happen.To Good People Place: Union Colleg'e SS016 Ti>me: May 20, 8:00pm Sponsored by J.S.O. - Hillel TAKE CREDIT FOR THE PERFECT SUMMER CHOICE The Cornell University Summer. Session offers you a unique opportunity to enrich your academic program while you enjoy New York State's beautiful Finger Lakes region. At Cornell you can fulfill requirements, accelerate your degree program, or simply take the courses that you've always had to put oft As a Cornell summer student you can enjoy a remarkable variety of courses and learning experiences in an environment of lakes, parks, ravines, and waterfalls. Ithaca itself is a small cosmopolitan city set in a magnificent, varied countryside that offers water sports, winery tours, climbing and camping, summer theater, soaring and biking, birding and hiking., .. Call or write for program details and see for yourself why Cornell is the place to invest your summer for the best :return. Tuition is $145 per credit hour. CORNELL UNIVERSITY SUMMER SESSION 8-12G IVES HALL ITHACA, N.Y. 14853 607-256-4987 FREE FILM!!! May 27th in Stage II at 8 p.m.: ''The Brooklyn Bridg-e'' Academy Award Nominee for Best Documentary Sponsor~d by the Department of the Arts Admission is free All are invited to attend - ILK •. SAIV\TOGA f>I:.RfOR.\11f\.G AATSCI:.NTER The 1982 Summer Season at SPAC ' 1 Ciassic Evenings and Hot Summer Nights\ EricCiapton Gary U.S. Bonds - with the Marshall Tucker Band Peter, Paul and Mary Peter Allen Joan Baez Steve Miller Band Chuck Mangione Elton John and Quarterflash James Taylor Air Supply Preservation Hall Jazz Band Doobie Brothers Aretha Franklin JoniMitchell Gordon Lightfoot Allman Brothers and The Atlanta Rhythm Section Rick Springfield Junel9 June20 June22 June26 June27 June28 July 11 July 25 July 26 August 1 August 2 August 8 AugustlO August 16 August 17 · CHARITY RAFFLE Arlo Guthrie and Pete Seeger Talking Heads Jefferson Starship J. Gei Is Band August 18 August20 August 21 August23 August24 August25 August26 August27 August29 August31 1st-prize $75 Mr. & Mrs. Schlauch 2nd prize $50 Gabriel Elkin 3rd prize $25 Ann Ruth Phi Sigma Kappa and The Juvenile Diabetes Foundation thank you for your support. Genesis Charlie Daniels Band Emmylou Harris and McGuffey Lane Willie Nelson TheBeach Boys September 1 Ticket~nn sale nowata II Tic:ketron locations and crt the SPAC Box Office

Page 12 OONOORDIENSIS, May SO, 1982 Draft Sign-Up (CPS)-The February \grace period\ allowing 18-year-old men to change their minds about registering for the military draft without penalty worked, according to· the Selective Service, but the entire \continuous registration\ system may be a flop, the Government Accounting Office (GAO) says. \We saw a significant spurt in registration during the grace period,\ reports Selective Service spokeswoman Joan Lamb, who says the compliance rate jumped to 90 percent .of those eligible to register during the period. \We think the reason the compliance rate was lower before is that some young men weren't sure the registration requirement would be around for long, and then there were those who just didn't take it seriously,\ she speculates. The GAO, in a study released last week, said only 70 percent of those required to register during the first nine months of 1981 actually complied with the law. In 1980, 96 percent registered, the GAO found. The GAO report concluded that \continuous registration\ wasn't as effective as the mass, two-week-long registration periods in effect during 1980. During the 1980 presidential campaign, candidate Ronald Reagan pledged to end military registration. He reneged on that promise in January, 1982, but did institute a \grace period\ through February 28, 1982, during which men who hadn't registered on time could do so without penalty. The penalty for not registering is up to five years in prison, a $10,000 fine, or both. Soon after the grace period ended, Rep. Les Aspin (D-Wis) introduced a bill in Congress to make non-registration a misdemeanor with a maximum penalty of $200. In mid-March, Selective Service Director Thomas Turnage endorsed the Aspin plan, which Congress has yet to consider officially. Turnage said one reason for endorsing the idea is that it ' Senior Fling tickets go on sale Today in Carnegie Hall would be \impractical\ to prosecute the estimated 900;000 men who ha:ve not registered since President Jimmy Carter started the program in January, 1980. That includes the 450-sorne people who registered with names like \Mickey\ Mouse.,\ \Bluto Blutarsky,\ \Jimmy Carte.r,'' and \Ronald Reagan,\ the GAO report says. The Oklahoma state legislature, however, may take a dimmer view of non- registrants than the White House. Rep. George Camp introduced a bill in February that would require men to present proof of registration in order to enroll in state colleges. The GAO, on the other hand, suggested that if registration rates don't improve through the rest of 1982 the Selective Service should consider returning to an intensive two-week sign-up period like that used in 1980. ACROSS 1 Free t1cket 5 Luxunate 9 The una I 12 D1llseed 13 Wolfhound 14 Pronoun 15 Emphasts 17 Pronoun 18 Ttme penod 19 Unusual 21- and deal 23 Appratsal 27 Latm con- Junctton 28 Puppy 29 Ex1st 31 Soak up 34 Wan1 ad abbr 35 lngredtent 38 Compass pt 39 Knock 41 Mans name 42 Expenence 44 Part of ·to be 46 Mus1ca1 response 48 Was con- cerned 51 European country 52 Mmeral 53 Near 55 Chast1se 59 Wnte 60 Ceremony 62 Short J8Cket 63 Make lace 64 Close 65 Act DOWN 1 Dance step 2 Emmet 3 Wetght of 1nd1a 4 Unproductive 5 lraqUI port 6 Man·s ntck- narne 7 Wttnessed 8 Was aware of 9 Satls 10 At thts place 11 As1an sea 16 Spectmen 20 Loosely woven cotton 22 Pronoun 23 Pttcher 24 NY Mets stadtum 25 Tellunum symbol 26 Before 30 All 32 Prepos1t1on 33 Hammer part 36 GUido's htgh note 3 7 Otmtntshed gradually Sixties Courses .May Rescue Liberal Arts (CPS)--One of the most significant reasons battered college liberal arts departments are holding onto students in the eighties is the siXties~ according to a nwnber .of History and American Studies professors around the country. Classes that focus on the events of the 1960s and try to explain their meaning to a new generation are becoming in- creasingly popular, they .say. The courses have names like \Youth in the 1960s,\ \Popular Culture in the 1960s,\ and \America and Vietnam,\ and are offered everywhere from the universities of Oklahoma and Kansas to Yale to Stanford. They are, moreover, in much demand. In a time when most social science courses a're suffering dramatic enrollment declines, 140 students recently signed up for Penn State's 1960s history class. Similarly, Stanford and Wisconsin, among others, recently sponsored \Sixties Weeks\ during which political celebrities like Jerry Rubin and Allen Ginsberg appeared on panels to discuss the con- troversial era. In what amounts to a \down time\ for the social sciences, such panels and courses are the only ones currently enjoying steady increases in enrollment, says Robert K. Murray, a CROSS WORD PUZZLE FROM COLLEGE PRESS SERVICE 40 Father or mother 43 QUiet' 45 Pronoun 47 ltaltan nver 48 Egypttan 49 Aegton 50 Mend 54 Stalemate 56 Devoured 57 Pedal dtgtt 58 Goal 61 Tantalum symbol Answers on page 13 historian at Penn Sate. \Students now are shoWing .a great deal of interest in the sixties, which seems so in- credibly long ago to them,\ adds Dr. Mary Young, vice president of the American Historical Association. Students ''are very curious to understand what happened.'' The people who teach the courses-many of them former activists themsel:ves--attribute their students' .interest to a nostalia for the era and even an anger that its persistent in- fluence may retard the development of a peculiar culture of their own. Jack Nachbar, a professor of popular culture at Bowling Green State University, adds, \The sixties idea of sitting around all day and getting high just makes no sense to ·these kids. The confidence in middle class affluence as a given just no longer exists.\ Because the 1960s and 1980s are so different politically and economically, teachers have found a cynicism among current students about what their predecessors of the sixties did and what they left behind. \What we have produced,'' says Warren Susman, a historian at Rutgers Uni:versity, \is a new generation that is bright, interested in the past, but with an absolute belief that nothing they do can make a difference.\ At the same time, Susman adds, ''Students sense that (sixties students) had a culture of their own. At least the yo'Uilg had their own experience. Students today have a bewilderment that the legends could really be like what they've heard. They don't have that sense of mystery, that sense of adventure that the sixties students had.\ At Stanford, Prof. Clayborne Carson's \students have a feeling that the earlier generation ight have had a greater political influence than they do now, but they blew it.\ But current students \didn't see (Students for a Democratic Society) or (the Student Non- vi()lent Coordinating Com- mittee) at their prime. What they remember is the residue wlike the SLA (Symbionese Liberation Army). It's hard for students to see these groups as. someting that had the capacity to win their political goals~\ But Carson notes, ''There are probably as many students around riow who have the same ideas as their peers in the sixties, but they keep those attitudes under wraps.\ Murray, however, attributes the harsher professorial ob- servations about the differences between student generations to . the age of the people who teach the si-xties cou{'ses. Many of them were college students during the decade. \For many,\ Murray says, \it was a marvelous time period when they cut their teeth. They're teaching it as if they could bring it all back. Their enthusiasm makes them good teachers, but it also makes them dangerous. They tend to blow things all out of propor- tion.\ \What's happened,\ agrees Queens College Prof. Morris Dickstein, author of the highly- acclaimed Gates of Eden, a cultural history of the 1960s, \is that people from that period have gone into teaching, and they're building on their own experiences. Some teachers are appalled that it's all so remote _ to their students.\ _''They're like veterans reminiscing and hoping it will all come back.\ Dickstein, who just finished a European tour, says the same continuing, pervasive influence of-and ambivalence toward- the 1960s is evident among·· students irl England, Italy and France. Yet Dickstein believes it may · be waning here. Mid-seventies students \had a sense that they missed a good party. But I think the current generation doesn't even have a sense of what the party was all about.\ Women Defer (CPS)-Women students are more deferential toward their male professors than toward their female professors, ac- cording ·to a new study of the names students call their teachers. Dr. Rebecca Rubin of Cleveland State University began her study \because I noticed on written evaluations many of my students would use my nickname, and I wondered why.\ Rubin then surveyed \a great number'' of students at the University of Wisconsin- Parkside, where she was then teaching. Students were asked what terms they'd use to get the attention of their professors in both formal classroom and informal situations. \Female students con- sistently use the familiar ad- dress term with their female professors while affording their male professors more status with the use, of the 'professor' title,\ she found. The Campus Store Pres.ents: She attributes the difference to \sexual status stereotyping\ and to \assumed similarity.\ She explains that ''people assume they're more similar to people than they actually are. I think some,.of the older feamle students tend to identify with some of the younger female faculty members. So they use less status differential.\ ..., Rubin also notes eadier studies showing ''female secretaries tend to identify with the female faculty members in their departments, and are more likely to call male professors\ by their professional titles. PEANUTS@ by Charles M. Schulz 11 A -SUMMER READ! NG Ll ST.:' WHAT'S A READING LI5T\? OUR TEAC~ER ~OPE5 WE'LL DO SOME READING DUI<IN6 SUMMER VACATION TI-\ESE ARE 600K5 SI-IE HA5 SUGGESTED WE READ JUSt FOR PLEASURE ••. FOR WHAT? \Students Rubin adds, \may overhear that, and adopt the same terms.\ Her study, published in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, found that while male students also tend to use more familiar terms in addressing female professors, \there wasn't as great a dif- ference\ between titles used as among female students. (CP enginej westerJ an in studen1 sideHr histori; Prof~ recent protest spoke Schille provol! try to classe thwes weeks. The belong self\pr claim systen milli01 gypsie World ''Th camp! conter termiJ Thi1 grou~ based Instill has water The for i criticl agree unive meeti Altl said preve the f event cancE vatioJ La: S· (Cl .boyc1 in a1 disgr Ever dem~ Presi grow andt scho~ \VI he Wri~ presi As occu two requ the thei: or de Bt stud with was pre! diss; Tr the com 19-c Nev yea rerr stuc A stu( allo

~ i t D rl s ... CONOORDIEN818, Jla,y BO, 198B Engineering Prof Claims Holocaust Didn't Happen ( CPS) .,. -An e le c t ric a 1 engine~ring professor at North- western University is attracting an increasing number of student protests because of his sideline activities as a historian. Professor Arthur Butz most recently drew a crowd of protesters in mid-April when he spoke at> a history seminar in Schiller Park, Ul., which in turn provoked a group of students to try to disrupt his · engineering classes back on ·the Nor- thwestern campus in later weeks. The reason is that Butz belongs to a gmu,p of similarly self .. proclaimed historians who claim the Holocuast .. -the systematic extermination of six million Jews, Catholics and gypsies by the Nazis during World War II-never took place. 1 'There were concentration camps,'' Butz concedes., \but I contend that .there was no ex- termination program.\ This isn't the first time Butz'.s group--a private, California- based organization called the Institute for Historical Review- has stirred the academic waters. The University of California, for ~stance, was sharply criticized last year when it agreed to rent the Institute a university conference center for meetings. Although administrators first said they could not legally prevent the group from using the facility, student pressure eventually forcedUC officials to cancel the Institute's reser- vations. Last .summer Institute director Lewis Brandon r~signed from his post after admitting he had misrepresented his true identity. Brandon made the admission in court, where a man took Brandon up on his promise to pay $50;000to .anyone with proof the Holocaust hap- pened. The man sued Brandon for the money. Butz, a member of the Institute's editorial advisory board, has no less a flair for attracting criticism and con- troversy. \Nobody wants him here,\ contends Michael Balinsky of the Northwestern Hillel, a Jewish student organization. \The tr_ouble is, the university says he has a right to teach here. He does keep his stupidities out of class, so not much can be done.\ Butz concedes only that his outside activities 'have provoked \a few events,\ citing a recent attempt by the International Committee Against Racism to disrupt his engineering class. Students were also involved in the Schiller Park protest, where Butz and some 40 others spent two days discussing Butz's book, The Hoax oftbe Twentieth Century. ''Scientific research .depends on the ability of other reputable researchers to come up with the same verifiable findings,\ says University of Chicago law student Joel Riff, who demonstrated during the seminar. \Butz is an electrical engineering professor who does this in his spare time. No real professor of history would Student Sit-In (CPS)-In a series of protests, boycotts, strikes, and now a sit- in at the president's office, disgruntled students at Medgar Evers College in New York are demanding the resignation of President Richard Trent on grounds that he is insensitive and unable to effectively run the school. \We'll leave his office when he resigns,\ says Rayon Wright, student government president. As of May 5, . students had occupied Trent's office for over two weeks, despite several requests fr()m a state judge that the students leave and settle their grievances in court- ordered meetings with Trent. But, according to Wright, student unrest ''just didn't start with the sit-in,'' which he claims was a last-ditch effort to ex- press student outrage and dissatisfaction with Trent. detriorate, done nothing to counter a 40 percent drop in enrollment, and even refused to meet with students to address their concerns. For instance, says Wright, when Trent was quoted recently as saying that he does not believe in the merits of black . studies, he failed to explain his comments to students and faculty members. \Trent is black,\ remarks Wright, \at least he looks black. But he never would say why he was against black studies.\ In addition, students have asked Trent for meetings to discuss day care facilities, but again to no avail. ''Our population is 73 ·percent female,\ says Wright, \and most of the women have children. Yet we have no day care.\ The faculty has joined the students. During the first days of the sit-in, the Faculty Senate asked for Trent's resignation, and later voted overwhelmingly to stand behind the students. challenge the fact of the Holocaust.\ Nonetheless, Butz asserts that the Holocaust is a myth, perpetrated to extort billions of dollars in war reparations from Germany and the U.S. \When I studied the evidence on the Holocaust allegations,\ Butz explains, ''it became clear the evidence didn't support the widespread theory.\ \Speaking for myself,\ says Dr. Samuel Gammon, executive director of the American Historical AssoCiation, of· the Institute for Historical Review, ''they're all wet. I personally was present at the Allied liberation of a concentration camp in 1945.\ The American Historical Association has reviewed the Institute's activities on several occasions, Gammon says, \but it is our official policy not to take a position in historical disputes.'' · \The mantle of Clio (the muse of history) is broad enough to support· a lot of nuts,\ he ob- serves. Still, he adds, \I know of no reputable historian or member of the AijA who would endorse the view that the Holocaust never took place.\ TYPING SERVICE 75c a page CHERYL 399-7614 Orders are now being taken for the 1986 Freshman Record To receive your copy bring $6.00 to the Student Affairs Office in Carnegie Hall. Orders must be in by May 24th and will only be accepted between 1 and 5 pmG The books will be delivered at the beginning of Fall termo · Campus Screams ('CPS)-Notre Dame students have joined a movement now becoming broadcast around' the land: screarriingtheirlungsout. The idea,. as practiced at Cornell, California-Davis, Smith,. Washington Univversity in St. Louis, Colgate and Hamilton, is to rele~e pre- finals tensions by.gathering for a mass scream. But when several hundred Notre Dame students gathered in late April to scream away their anxieties, they yelled themselves into what observers called \near riot\ fevers. Students from one part of campus met a delegation from another, began screaming insults at each other, tb~n joined forces to shout insults at several dorms (one- of which doused the screamers with waste baskets full of water), and finally settled at the office of President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, where they called for Hesburgh to make an ap- pearance. Hesburgh, who didn't respond to the screamers, has recently been criticised on campus for joining the international team of observers of the recent elections in El Salvador. University administrators, however, took it all good- naturedly. \At the stroke of mi~ght BE IN THE FOREFRONT OFTODAY'S TECHNOLOGY AS AN AIR FORCE ENGINEER everyone opens their windows and goes outside, and lets out a scream to usher out, Thursday and greet Frivolous Friday,\ explains Notre Dame Security Director Glen Terry. \It's part of a week of events to relieve frustration and pressure.\ \It doesn't cause us any .great problem,\ he says. \We think it's good for the kids. It's a really nice way for them to usher in spring and get ready for finals.\ At Cornell, where the mass scream-ins probably originated, the screamings have gotten so loud that a nwnber of community groups.in surrounding Ithaca, N.Y. have formally complained to the university. Some even threatened legal action when in 1980 a seven- student \Primal Scream Club\ began holding nightly screams that soon attracted several thousand participants. At most schools, the scream is a one-night affair held during final exam periods, and usually the surrounding communities \just kind of roll with it,\ Terry observes. The screamings are a spin--off of Primal Scream therapy developed by Dr. Arthur Janov, and somewhat popularized in the late sixties by John Lennon. Our engineering officers are planning and designing tomorrow's weapon systems today. Many are seeing their ideas and concepts materialize. They have the finest state-of .. the-art equipment to test their the~ries. The working environment is conducive to research. And Air Force experience is second to none. You can be .part of this dynamic team if you have an engineering degree. Your first step will be Officer Training School. Help us shape our future as we help you start yours. Be an engineering officer in the Air Force. Contact your Air Force recruiter at 518-472-4484 SSgt. Mike Bobrinitz. Call Collect. ' Trent has been president of the predominently-black community college, part of the 19-campus City University of New York system, for over 12 years. College officials are remaining silent regarding student charges against Trent. Among other things, the students claim that Trent has allowed college buildings to The Campus ·Store Presents: Puzzle Answer PEANUTS@ by Charles M. Schutz FISHING FO~ COMPLIMENTS? T~IAT'S Tf.IE DUMBEST TiliNG I'VE EVER f.\EARD!; 1 ''(0U'RE SWfET ... YOU HAVE NICE EVES ... YOU/RE KIND OF CUTE ... '-fOU HAVE A GREAr soo ... \

Page 14 ' J '-\'- ' 1.1 'v [J ~ i· t: , I ~ \' b .. What's Happening Thursday May 20 Bloodpressure Screnning Clinic c-o the Infirmary 11 :30- 2.:00p.m., in the Banquet Room, Carnegie Hilld Speaker: Rabi Harold Kushner--open to public, 7-10:30 p.m., SS016 Friday May :n Fox-Davidson All Campus Party, 3-8 p.m., Fox-Davidson Lawn Film \Ghost Story\ 7, 9 & 11 in SS016 Tri City Folk Dancers, 7:30- midnight, Arts 202 Octavo Singers of Schenec- tady Concert, 8 p.m., Memorial Chapel Tri Delta All Campus Party, 11 p.m.-2 a.m. Sigma Phi Rum & Reggae Part-y, 1~ p.m. Saturday May 22 FITZ HUGH LUDLOW DAY Delta Gamma Olympics Theta Delta Chi Southern Rock Party Film \Ghost Story\ 7, 9 & 11, SS016 Sigma Delta Tau Band Party Sunday May 23 I.F.C. 1st Ann11al Picnic, Girting Center Film \Ghost Story\ 7, 9 & 11 in SS016 Tuesday May 25 Pl:li Delta Theta Marathon Baseball Game, 1· p.m., Astroturf Field History Department Picnic, Jacksons Gardens, 4:30-7:30 pm Free Fihn-\A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum\ 9 & 11, SS016 Student's for Israel Lecture, 7:30-9 p.m. Banquet Room Wednesday May 26 , Film \Eyewitness\, 7, 9 & 11 in SS016, $1 OONCORDIENSIS, May !0, 198~ Clambake a Success The Brothers of Sigma Chi would like to thank everyone who helped to make the 14th Annual Clambake and Derby Day a success. A special thanks is extended to the Derby Day Teams, whose charitable ef- forts in raffle sales, raised a significant amoWlt of money. This money wiH be donated to the American Heart Association in the name of the winning team, \The Westieles.'' See you next year at the Bake, Thanks Again The Brothers of Sigma Chi (Please pick up all raffle prizes by Monday 5-24) . . :.::::...:----==--== e tees Theta Delta Chi's 'Southern Rock Party Theta Delta Chi's 5th Annual Southern Rock Party will be held on Saturday, May 22 at 9:00 PM. There will be a band, dancing, a shot bar, punch and beer. As always, admission will be free. So, put on your Southern hats, your drinking clothes and your dancing shoes and come on over for a great time. Delta Chi Beer Blast Delta Chi's BEER BLAST BAND PARTY, featuring the southern rock of Freefall, will take place on Thursday, May 27th. Tickets are $2.00 and all proceeds will go to the American Cancer Society. There will be a truckload of beer and Rich Claytor will be frying burgers and hot dogs for ticketholders until he is a walking grease pit. Get your ticket from any Delta Chi brother. Union College Film Committee Presents A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the .,..,..,, .... Tues., May 25 9, 11 p.m. SS016 F'REE!! 22-24,7,9, & 11 p.m. Wednesday, May 26, 7, 9 & 11 p.m . $1.00 55016 I General Nottices Typist avaUable for summer work. If interested, drop a nate to Rachel Mandel, Box 2202, explaining the type of work involv~d. any deadlines and where you can be contacted. I will get in touch with you as soon as possible. SUNY Binghamton student seeks .Sche.nectady summer sulrlet. (One bedroom, maybe two). Write or call Doug at a29 Main Street, Binghamton, NY 13905, (607) 770-8092. The sooner the better .. MISSING-Fujica STX-1 SLR Camera. If youhaveit, orfind it please tell me. REWARD will be granted. Contact Shawne McCord. 370-6492. On Monday, March 31st, from 11:30 to 1 P.M., Hale House formal dining room wm be closed. Students may eat in Old Chapel for lunch. Hale House dining hall will be open as usual for dinner. Two feamle apartment mates wanted for University Place summer sub-let. $56.25 a month, fully furnished. Call Annemarie mornings at 370-6455. Administrative and Enginee.ring Systems is sponsormg a colloquium presenting Mr. PaulS. Swartz, President & · ·Chief Executive Officer, Intermagoetics General Corporation who will speak on Growing a High Technology Company in the 1980's. This will be held on May 20, 1982.-;Thursday, 3:45 p.m. in Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. Faculty, students, and the interested public are invited. 2 IBM Electridc typewriters for sale in Admissions office. See receptionist. $125.00 Department of Biology-- Biology Coub Department- Seminar, Wednesday, May 26, 1982 at 4:30p.m. in S.S. 115. The topic is on Monoclonal antibody and its application to medical diagnosis and the speaker will be L.S., Lee, Ph.D., General Electric Research Center. Refreshments at 4:00p.m. \I need muscular students for 1-2 days of yardwork. $35-day. Contact Prof. B. Reynolds, 370- 3998, 370-6217.\ \7 On Monday, May 31 at 8:00 p.m., Hugh Allen Wilson will be giving a harpishord recital in Arts Building, room 202 .. The concert will include works by Bach, Rameau and Scarlatti. The concert is free and the public is cordially invited to attend. ' Next week's Italian table will be held out-of-doors \on the green\ between the Arts building and the Pub (weather permitting) . All Italophiles are welcome, wine and cheese. (May 27} NEED A ROOM FOR FALL TERM?! ! We have a <Single room available in a new · apartment on Gillespie. For more info call Sarah, Flo, Caroline, or Jeanine at 6527. s~ Unio teamfi a 7-5 r' mem:~ well. singles double fielder awesm Faultl• demor sborts1 .255 ba: teamt Brend battin1 satilit: smile PitchE impor succel u u u Si R 0 u u :u A - A

Page 14 . ) ~ -· . ~, L •• '' ' --· What's Happening Thursday May 20 Bl oodpressure Screnning ('lime c-o the Infirmary 11:30- ~: 00 p.m., tn the Banquet Room, Carnegie HilJ.·l Speaker: Rabi Harold Kush!ter-op<-·n to public, 7-10:30 p.1n., SS016 Friday May 21 Fox-Davidson All Campus Party, 3-8 p.m., Fox-Davidson Lawn Film \Ghost Story\ 7, 9 & 11 In SS016 Tri City Folk Dancers, 7:30- mldnight. Arts 202 Octavo Singers of Schenec- tady Concert, 8 p.m., Memorial Chapel Tri Delta All Campus Party, 11 p.m.-2 a.m. Sigma Phi Rum & Reggae Party, 1-{) p.m. Saturday May 22 FITZ HUGH LUDLOW DAY Delta Gamma Olympics Theta Delta Chi Southern Rock Party Film \Ghost Story\ 7, 9 & 11, SS016 Sigma Delta Tau Band Party Sunday May 23 I.F .C. 1st Annual Picnic, Girling Center Film \Ghost Story\ 7, 9 & 11 in SS016 Tuesday May 25 I Phi Delta Theta Marathon Baseball Game, 1 p.m., Astroturf Field History Department Picnic, Jacksons Gardens, 4:30-7:30 pm Free Film-\A Funny Thing Happened on the VVay to the Forum\ 9 & 11, SS016 Student's for Israel Lecture, 7:30-9 p.m. Banquet Room WednesdayMay26 Film \Eyewitness\, 7, 9 & 11 in SS016, $1 CONCORDIENSIS, May !0~ 1982 .. Clambake a Success The Brothers of Sigma Chi would like to thank everyol'le who helped to make the 14th Annual Clambake and Derby Day a success. A special thanks is extended to the Derby Day Teams, whose charitable ef- forts in raffle sales, raised a significant amount of money. This money will be donated to the American Heart Association in the name of the winning team, \The VVesticles.\ See you next year at the Bake, Thanks Again The Brothers of Sigma Chi I Please pick up all raffle prizes by Monday 5-24 l Chelly·wLike Sea Breezes much? As usual, you In· competent fool, everything was great. Get -psyched for tomorrow! ! Love, your mama To the Fire Warden of Union College: God help you if you let anyone take that hat away from you! Love, the New FE p.s. Did you tell Chip that I called the cops? · To all concerned there will be a lecture on the $tress of milking a cow. Look for future an· nouncements. DING, DONG, the . DWORKIN'S DE'AD Kelly, thanks for a super day.! GAMMA RAY ALL THE WAYl Susan Love ya muchly\ alot avery much and even more than I did last week...- Babycakes To Charis: . ~asted Weekend 'S2 begins · • t?mgnt! Get psyched for a great· tnne, I'm .proud to call you m.y pal~ Cow, because you have ' seen. the metamorphosis .. from ' an mnoeent freshman t-o a decadent sophomore. Cheet$1 MADDOG~~HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY!!! -143 Mary and Tucker Submit your LAST PERSONALS ~f !~:· Y~Cir ~P:WI . e Ices Theta Delta Chi's 'Southern Rock Party Theta Delta Chi's 5th Annual Southern Rock Party will be held on Saturday, May 22 at 9:00 PM. There will be a band dancing, a shot bar, punch and beer. As always, admission will be free. So, put on your Southern hats, your drinking clot.hes and your dancing shoes and come on over for a great time. Delta Chi Beer Blast Delta Chi's BEER BLAST BAND PARTY, featuring the southern rock of Freefall, will take place on Thursday, May 27th. Tickets are $2.00 and all proceeds will go to the American Cancer Society. There will be a truckload of beer and Rich Claytor will be frying burgers and hot dogs for ticketholders until he is a walking grease pit. Get your ticket from any Delta Chi brother. Union College Film Committee Presents A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum Tues., May 25 9, 11 p.m. 55016 FREE!! EYEWITNESS F,Sa,Su, May 22-24, 7,9, & 11 p.m. ss 016 Wednesday, May 26, 7,9 & 11 p.m. $1.00 55016 b • \'· ~ ,.. ~Q ... 'V\ ,\\ \ •. General Nottices Typist available -for summer work. If interested, drop a note to Rachel Mandel, Box 2202, explaining the type of work involved, any deadlines and where yau can be contacted. I will get in touch with you as soon as possible. SUNY Binghamton student seeks Schenectady summer sub-let. (One bedroom, maybe two). Write or call Doug at 329 Main Street, Binghamton, NY 13905, (607) 770-8092. The sooner the better. MISSING-Fujica STX-1 SLR Camera. If you have it, or find it please tell me. REVV ARD will be granted. Contact Shawne McCord. 370-6492. On Monday, March 31st, from 11:30 to 1 P.M., Hale House formal dining room will be closed. Students may eat in Old Chapel for lunch. Hale House dining hall will be open as usual for dinner. Two feamle apartment mates wanted for University Place summer sub-let. $56.25 a month, fully furnished. Call Annemarie mornings at 370-6455. Administrative and Engineering Systems is sponsoring a colloquium presenting Mr. Paul S. Swartz, President & Chief Executive Officer, Intermagnetics General Corporation who will speak on Growing a High Technology Company in the 1980's. This will be held on May 20, 1982-Thursday, 3:45p.m. in Room 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. Faculty, students, and the interested public are invited. 2 IBM Electridc typewriters for sale in Admissions office. See receptionist. $125.00 Department of Biology-~ Biology Coub Department- Seminar, Wednesday, May 26, 1982 at 4:30p.m. in S.S. 115. The topic is on Monoclonal antibody and its application to medical diagnosis and the speaker will be L.S., Lee, Ph.D., General Electric Research Center. Refreshments at 4:00 p.m. \I need muscular students for 1-2 days of yardwork. $35-day. Contact Prof. B. Reynolds, 370- 3998, 370-6217.\ On Monday, May 31 at 8:00 p.m., Hugh Allen Wilson will be giving a harpishord recital in Arts Building, room 202. The concert will include works by Bach, Rarneau and Scarlatti. The concert is free and the public is cordially invited to attend. Next week's Italian table will be held out-of-doors \on the green\ between the Arts building and the Pub (weather permitting). All Italophiles are welcome, wine and cheese. (May 27) NEED A ROOM FOR FALL TERM?!! We have a -single room available in a new apartment on Gillespie. For more info call Sarah, Flo, Caroline, or Jeanine at 6527. s Uni team a 7-5 meml welL singlE doubl fie Ide awes1 Fault deiiH short :255 t team Bren battiJ satili smil Pitd impo SUCCI

OONCORDIENSIS, May. SO, 198S Page 15 Softball Ends (7-5) By L.L. GUTIN Sports Staff Union's women's softball team finished their season with a 7-5 record this year. Several members played consistently well. Leading the team · in singles and tied for the most doubles and triples was out- fielder Kelly Uese, who had an awesome .456 batting average. Faultless defensive playing was demonstrated· by freshman shortstop Peg Petro, and her .25~ .batting average helped the team through many a tight spot. Brenda Hugick's consistent batting (.325), fielding ver- satility, and her never-fading smile were indispensible. Pitcher Dina Pliotis .played· an important role in the team's success. Seniors and tri-captains Carol Wrenn, Kirsten Petersen, and Lynn LeBlanc provided a strong foundation for this year's team. Carol played first base and came up with some successful plays that no one in their right mind would have tried for. She had the most homeruns and drew a lot of walks. Kirsten played a 'virtually errorless leftfield, hit .250 and came through ·with strong pitching. After breaking two bones in her hand during preseason, Lynn LeBlanc stayed with the team as an assistant to coach Mary Gillespie and thus remained an essential part of the team. The seniors' playing experience, ability, emotional support, and humor will all be missed next year. WOMEN'S SOFTBALL FINAL RECORD7-5 UNION6 UNION 16 UNlON 24 Siena 7 RPI15 Oneonta 17 UNION 12 UNION 11 UNION 15 Albany 25 - Albany 15 Siena 4 Skidmore 6 Williams 13 UNION 3 UNION 13 UNION 8 St. Rose 11 Russell Sage 10 Skidmore 14 UNION 1 UNION 1 Editor's Note: Last week's women's sports photos should have been credited to R.T. Photo. My apologies. 109 C<ma! Sqt1are, Broadway, Sch'dy. P·hone: 374-4332 • PIZZA • N.Y.S Style Sicillian Style (Deepdish) 8\ cut 12\ cut 24\ cut Cheese 4.25 5.00 8.50 Ex. Cheese 5.25 6.00 10.00 Sausage 5.25 6.00 10;00 Mushroom 5.25 6.00 10.00 Pepperoni 5.25 6.00 10.00 Green Peppers 5.25 6.00 10.00 Meatballs 5.25 6;00 10.00 Onions 5.25 6.00 10.00 Anchovies 5.25 6;00 10.00 Any Add Item .75 1.00 i.50 Papa Cicco's Deluxe 9.25 10.95 15.00 WHITE PIZZA THE SHRIMP THE WHITE OUR SPECIALTY SCAMPI CLAM SAUCE - Try One Today - PIZZA PIZZA Pizza with White Clam Sauce and Garlic with Moz~arella cheese Pizza with no sauce Shrimp and Garlic Sprinkled with Olive Oil with Olive Oil and and Freah Garlic with mounds of Mozzarella cheese Moz%arella cheese 6 7 5 Lg-. 4.50 Lg. • ? SO Scut 6.00 12 cut 6.75 Sicillian 12 cut 5.25 Sicillian 12 cut • 24 cut 8.75 24 cut 10.50 24 cut 9.75 •IT ALlAN SANDWICHES • 1\,~atball . . . . . 2.10 Steak . . . . . . . . 2.50 Meatball Parmigiana . .\. . . . . . . 2.50 Salami&: Provolone . . . 2.50 Sausage . 2.10 Prosciotto & Provolone . . . . 2.95 Sausaie Parmigiana . ' . . 2.50 Sandwiches with peppers 20< e11Ta Sausare & Peppero . 2.35 Sandwiches with Mushrooms 2Q' e!\'ra Erg Plant Parmigiana 2.60 San!iwiches with Onions 10' extra Italian Roasted Peppers 25' extra Calzone All Calum~ f!lled wilh Rlcota ch~ue, PIZZA BREAD A ouperb Garlic Breed baked with Mozzarella Cheese 1.50 1.25 • SP~CIALTIES • Plain . . . . . .. _ . . 2.25 Sausage . . . . . . 2.65 Ham Prosciotto . • . 2.65 ... 2.95 ~--rn;~ Dei~;~-~ I on Campus 1 .. I I L--------~ ------- __ J WE DELIVER- Ph. 374-'4332 Barb Bailey on second base, JoAnne Dolan on third, and catcher Carolyn Bigda all gave their most to strengthen Union's infield. Karen Roth, Linda G.utin, Cathy Gifford, Peg Layden, Jane Webb, Cindy Buddenhagen, Ruth Ewing, and Louisa Rooney put a lot of effort into the season and he~ped the ·team in many aspects. Looking back on the .begin- ning of the season, the team had a very hopeful outlook. With many returning lettermenand a strong group of new recruits they were shooting for a berth in the state tournament for the second year in a row. They didn't make it. They played hot and they played cold, but for some reason they never quite pulled it together, it seems. They fell short of errorless and they lacked consistency. In general, it was a disappointing season and the whole team felt it. But with the powers that are returning next year the team will overcome and surely make the states. Peggy Petro at the plate. Phi Delt- Delta Gamma Sunset Party at Ph~ Delta Theta on _the sun porch Beer and other Concoctions Thursday, May 20 COME ONE!! COM.E ALL!! ' . TO CAMP UNION 1982!! Any group interested in the Miller Tug-0-War should I fill out registration forms available in the Student Activities Office. Please return all forms by Wednesday, May 26. 1ROPHIES AND T-SHIRTS will be awarded to the winning teams. .. Anyone interested in helping at Camp Union: Meetings ore held every Wednesday at 4:00 in Strauss Lounge. Any Campus band interestecl in playing at Camp Union should contact Darcy Hammerman at 374-3243 or Rich Tanenbaum at 374-4898.

1 1 e s OONOORDIENSIS~ May SO~ 198' Page 15 . . ' . '· ' . . ·.. - . ' - - - - ; ' , . . - .. - Softball Ends (7-5) By L.L. GUTIN Sports Staff Union's women's softball team finished their season with a 7-5 record this year. Several members played consistently well. Leading the team in singles and tied for the most doubles and triples was out- fielder Kelly Liese, who had an awe-some .456 batting average. Faultless defensive playing was demonstrated by freshman shortstop Peg Petro, and her :255 batting average helped the team through many a tight spot. Brenda Hugick's consistent batting ( .325 ), fielding ver- satility, and her never-fading smile were indispensible. Pitcher Dina Pliotis played an important role in the team's success. Seniors and tri-captains Carol Wrenn, Kirsten Petersen, and Lynn LeBlancpravided a strong foundation for this year's 1eam. Caral played first base and came up with some suc:cessful plays that no one in their right mind would have tried for. She had the most homeruns and drew a lot of walks. Kirsten played a virtually errorless leftfield, hit .250 and came through with strong pitching. After breaking two bones in her hand during preseason, Lynn LeBlanc stayed with the team as an assistant to coach Mary Gillespie and thus rem.ained an essential part of the team. The seniors' playing experience, ability, emotional supp()rt, and hwnor will all be missed next year. WOMEN'S SOFTBALL FINAL RECORD 7-5 UNION 6 UNION 16 UNION 24 Siena 7 RPI15 Oneonta 17 UNION 12 UN ION 11 UNION 15 Albany 25 Albany 15 Siena 4 Skidmore 6 Williams 13 UNION 3 UN ION 13 UNION 8 St. Rose 11 Russell Sage 10 Skidmore 14 UNION 1 UNION 1 Editor's Note: Last week's women's sports photos should have been credited to R. T. Photo. My apologies. 109 Ca~a! Sq1,1are, Broadway, Sch'dy. Phone: 374-4332 0 PIZZA • N.Y.S Style Sicillian Style (Deepdish) 8\ cut 12\ cut 24\ cut 4.25 5.00 8.50 Cheese Ex. Cheese Sausage Mushroc>rn Pepperoni Green Pep~rs Meatballs Onions Anchovies Any Add Item Papa Cicco's Deluxe 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 I 0.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 1 0.00 5.25 6.00 I 0.00 5.25 6.00 1 0.0() 5.25 6.00 1 0.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 .75 1.00 1.5() 9.25 10.95 15.00 WHITE PIZZA THE SHRIMP THE WHITE OUR SPECIALTY SCAMPI CLAM SAUCE - Try One Today - PIZZA PIZZA Pizza witb W!J.ite Clam Sauce and Garlic with Mozzarella ch.eese Pizza with no sauce Shrimp and Garlic Sprinkled with Olive Oil with Olive Oil and and Fresh Garlic with mounds of Mozzarella cheese Mozzarella chees~ 6 75 4 5() Lg. . 8 cut 6.()0 12 cut 6.75 Lg. ' 7 50 Sicillian 12 cut 5.25 Sicillian 12 cut • 24 cut 8.75 24 cut 10.50 24 cut 9.75 • IT ALlAN SANDWICHES • 1\,•athall Meatball p,mniglana Sausage Sausage Parmigiana Sau•age & Pepp<>rs Egg Plant Parmigiana Cal zone PIZZA BREAD A superb Garlic Br...,d baked with Mozzar•lla Cheese 1.50 1.25 . 2.l 0 Steak 2.50 2.50 Salami & Provalone 2.50 2.10 Prosciotto & Pn>valone 2.95 2.50 Sandwiches with peppers 20' e~tr11 2.35 Sandwiches with Mushrooms 2'¥ extra 2.60 Sandwiche• with Onions 10' •xtra Italian Roasted Peppers Z5' el<tra • SPECIALTIES • Plain Sausage 2.25 2.65 Hom Prosciotto 2.65 2.95 ~--rnF;~ Deii;;;-+J ! on Campus i l I L---------~~--------J WE DELiVER- Ph. 374~4332 Barb Bailey on sec9nd base, JoAJme Dolan on third, and catcher Carolyn Bigda all gave their most to strengthen Union's infield. Karen Roth, Linda Gutin, Cathy Gifford, Peg Layden, Jane Webb, Cindy Buddenhagen, Ruth Ewing, and Louisa Rooney .put a lot of effort into the season and helped the team in many aspects. Looking back on the begin- ning of the season, the team had a very hopeful autlook. With many returning lettermen and a strong group af new recruits they were shooting for a berth in the state tournament for the second year in a row. They didn't make it. They played hot and they played cold, but for some reason they never quite pulled it together, it seems. They fell short of errorless and they lacked consistency. In general, it was a disappointing season and the whole team felt it. But with the powers that are returning next year the team will overcome and surely make the states. Phi Delt - Delta Gamma Sunset Party at Phi Delta Theta on the sun porch Beer and other Concoctions Thursday, May 20 COME ONE!! COME ALL!! TO CAMP UNION 1982!! Any group interested in the Miller Tug-0-War should fill out registration forms available in the Student Activities Office. Please return all forms by Wednesday, May 26. TROPHIES AND T-SHIRTS will be awarded to the winning teams. • Anyone interested in helping at Camp Union: Meetings are held every Wednesday at 4:00 in Strauss Lounge. Any Campus band interested in playing at Camp Union should contact Darcy Hammerman at 374-3243 or Rich Tanenbaum at 374-4898. vl~o~~~~,o1 .9.'· 8.~ s{,..)·_.c:),~;.~~~ }L~~ l) -.9.' ,• ~--~' :-.... r(/, -~ r.r- lo.., D-:$11~~ . ~\:~~ ~ ' ~ .. . ~ r~, ... ' .? ~r~:;;~ .. ..tJc~,'r !4·1~? ~.l • o C?,. :-:rV.~',f~-~·\\ Q,,. fi~ ~ \7~(l_~~ ~ , 1 .~G ·a u \\9\ .. ~· 101 ~ ~'- ~ ~~~ ~~.·r>~2&--\'''-\.~.->.0'0'.-?.->«r<\'.~.

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS~ May 20, 1982 Tough Season for Laxmen By DON BEALL Sports Staff The Union lacrosse team ended their season on a disappointing note last Tuesday as they lost 13-12 in an overtime game against Albany State. The game against Albany was the third overtime loss for the Dutchman lacrosse team this year and the fifth game the t earn has lost by one goal. The lacrosse squad ended up at 4-11. which equalled last year _ performance. The Dutchmen were only out of two games completely (St. Lawrence and top ranked Hobart). In the rest of the games the Dutchmen gave very strong efforts and were never very far out of ~~:==~·~ E ·~--} ~·-~' .. {-_ ~-\- ·\\'', 0 .c .. c. c 10 ~ striking distance. In the Albany game freshman Marc Ehudin led the Union stickers as he tallied five goals. Ehudin totalled 23 ,goals and eight assists .for an outstanding freshman year. Sean Durham netted four goals and Jamie Bono carne through with two goals. Dave Schwnan scored a goal to round out the Union scoring. _ Union once again dominated the ground balls and faceoffs. Union scooped 102 ground balls to Albany's 68. Jolrn Mercer playing his last garne had an exceptional game coming up with 22 saves. The Albany goalie only had nine saves but did manage to score a goal against the Dutchmen. ~ p • u ..11; ~ 15 ~ \ ' l ;;;:: :: ;::: ;, :, :=::: ·;.,., ·- ... Dutchman Marty Sands checks his Hobart opponent in action earlier this year. Senior attackman Sean Durham finished his out· standing career in fine fashion. Despite missing four games with a knee sprain, Durham led the team .in scoring for the second .straight year. His 1982 totals of 38 goals and 23 assists, 61 points, gives him a cateer total of 113 goals, 72 assists for 182 PQints. Unfortunately his knee injury probably cost him All-American honors this ·year. Union wil:l also lose their second leading scorer Jim Wright. Wright netted 24 goals and added 10 assists this year. Marc Ehudin should provide some replacement far the two graduating attackmen. Steve Koscs should also be in- strumental next year as he will be replacing the graduating goaltender John Mercer. Also graduating will be tri-captain Dana Johnson and defenseman Charlie Freni. Union had a disappointing record this year, however their record does not indicate bow · competitive they were. The five games lost by one goal hurt the Dutchmen considerably. A healthy Sean Durham might have provided a little more scoring punch that might have turned several of the games around. The Dutchmen lacrosse team is only losing five players, and they have competent players to · replace them. Consequently, the outlook for next year is good if the Dut- chmen can win some of the close games. Ruggers Finish at 6-1 By S.C. Sports Staff The Rugby Football Club finished a successful spring season with a victory over RPI Saturday. By posting a 13-9 win, the team ended with a record of 6-1. . Scoring came for Union early in the first half. Tony Morgan grabbed hold of the ball and kicked it upfield. After being put onside, Jody Karlin picked the ball up and bolted into the endzone. After evading several RPI defenders, Karlin put the ball down behind the goalpost . for Union~s first try of the game. Brad Nicholson converted the extra-points kickand Union was quickly up by a score of 6-0. RPI tried to toughen up on its defense as Union continuously surged towards the goal. On several occasions the Garnet squad was able to push the ball within RPI's 25-yard line, but failed to put it in for a soore. RPI's tou~h defense oaid off as RPI was able to move the ball deep Qo Union territory before a Gan:aet penalty stopped play. Here RPI was awarded a penalty kick which was good, making the score 6-3. Once again before the half, RPI was able to score on a penalty kick, tying the score at six. Coming out after the five- minute haUtime, play was even tmtil RPI got another break when a penalty was called on Union. The penalty kick was good and RPI was up for the first time in the game by a score of 9-6. out through the line, UJ}ion was awarded a penalty kick. Tom Conway took the challenge from 35 yardS out. Conway suc- cessfully split the uprights and Union was rolling again. With the score knotted 9-9, Union again got possession of the ball when Lee Waxman caught a kick and headed for a try. After dodging several defenders, Waxman had to dump it off to Nicholson who took it and dived over the line for Union's second try of the day. Conway converted and the score was final at 15-9. The second game was a different story. With less than five minutes left to play, the RPI fullback scored. The conversion was the difference as it was good and the game ended at 9-7. Early into the first half RPI was allowed a penalty kick and it was successful giving the visiting team a 3-0 lead. With the game looking like a blow- out, Union rapidly recovered. The Garnet line moved the ball downfield as it surged toward a try. The Dutchmen were stopped, though, when a penalty was called on RPI. Union's kicker, Bob Waaler, put the kick through from 27 yards, and the score was tied at three. This did not keep the RPI team down. It was at this time that the RPI fullback scored his goal. With the scored tied at 7-7, the visiting team's kicker successfully put the extra- points kick up, giving RPI the needed difference. The \A\ team victory also marked the last game for several senior Union ruggers. These seniors are Lee Waxman, Tom Conway, captain Joe Cardino, Dave Zaltas, Lester Kennedy, Kevin Taylor, Dan Logue, Scott Comstock, Chip Symington, and Joe Bosco. · The Rugby Club will be meetiil.g this Tuesday at 4:00 to discuss their post-season party and elect next season's officers. By SCOTT WYCKOFF Sports Staff The 1982 Union Dutchmen base ball season came to an end last week as Dick Sakala's squad swept a doubleheader from Hartwick 17-2 and 7-4. Union was hot down the home stretch as they came out on top · in six out of their last nine games. Union's season mark was one game below .500 at 11· 12. The team leader throughout the season was junior cen- terfielder Mike Saccocio. Mike was an explosive hitter all year as he ended the season leading the squad with a .441 batting average. His speed was an asset both on offense and in the field as he had one error in 23 games and stole. 20 bases without being caught. Junior leftfielder Andy Dreher ended up with the team's second leading average of .434. Andy ended the '82 campaign with just one less. at bat and one less hit than Saca cocio. Dreher's ann was the talk of many opposing teams as he continually held runners from getting extra bases. Clutch hitting was also a big part of Andy's year as he was the team leader in the RBI column with 17. Sophomore Joe Wood started the· season as a rightfielder and toward the middle of the year moved to third base while also seeing time on the mound. Woody hit .388 for tne season with two homeruns and 20 RBI's. Joe also led the team in strikeouts with 17 while com· piling a 2·2 record. Freshman Tim Alibozek played in every game .for the Dutchmen at second base. Tim was an excellent lead-off hitter as he hit at a .329 clip. Another fine freshman hitter was third baseman and designated hitter John Moretti. John ended the season strong against Hartwick as he hit for the cycle in the Union doubleheader sweep. 11-12 John finished the year with an impressive .318 average. Senior. Shortstop AI DiLibero . ended his Union baseballcareer in fine style with a strong .318 batting average. Al did an in- credible job at sh()rt and batted- well in the ninth position, He knocked in 14 runs and chalked up his only collegiate· homerun against Middlebury. Al is a fine defensive shortstqp who will be sorely missed next season. Behind the plate this season were jWliors Ed Moriarty and George Oberstadt . Ed took over the full catching duties at midseason when. George moved to rightfield. Ed had a .super year behind the plate as he worked the pitchers well and forced many teams out of their running games with his shotgun arm. . After watching junior Joe Clinton, no one · would ever believe tnathe hadn't played on a baseball team in three years. Joe got off to a slow start ·but went wild at the end of the year as he batted .318 and led the squad with seven double baggers. . Junior George Oberstadt played in every game this season either behind the plate or in rightfield. George also got off to a slow start but came on strong to finish with a .304 average. George was a dangerous man on the basepaths as he stole 12 bases while being caught only twice. Leading this year's young pitching staff was -senior ace Paul McGrath. Paul pitched 46 innings for the Dutchmen this season en route to a 3-3 record. He pitc-hed almost two times as many innings as any other man on the staff., beat a tough Williams squad and lost a tough decision to Div. I power LeMoYlJe, 3-2. Sophomore Dave Packer, who did not play as a freshman, had a super year on the mound as he went 2-2 and also registered two saves forc the year. Also pitching well for the Dutchmen were freshman Nat Harris and transfer Mark Cietek. Nat pitched 23 innings on the year and ended with a 2-2 -record. · Mark threw well all year as he split. his time between the starting rotation and the bullpen en route to a deceptive 1•3 record with one save. The Dutchmen ended the season with a very impressive team batting average of .328. Coach Sakala was aided by a fine coaching staff this year. The help of Tim Collette, Mark Whipple and John Lovett made his job easier this season. This lead did not last long though. The Garnet ruggers quickly moved to even the score. After bringing the ball In the second half, Union was first to score. Flyhalf Paul Cunningham pitched the ball out to Steve Cole. Cole then pounded through three defenders, dived over the line and put the ball down just in- ches over the line. The con· version was missed, however, as the Garnet squad was up· 7•3 .. Union's leadoff hitter Tim Alibozek batted \lit a- .32.9 clip for the Dutchmen this year. ........ • • • • • • 0 • • • • • • • • .. • ~····· - () - VI< ha c y. PrE fie< An: Te~ de] ad~ Ell Ch an hOJ Le ] a~ '5~ P1 of w P1 PI Sc b~ dE . CE cc 18 pi Sl

- I n 0 ~r .8 1• d\ le d lil te te m ld ~r at ~d er 1e ld ~ir m oe er on ~s. IUt ar he •le ldt tlis 1te ~ot on ~04 a :he ses ce. mg :tee I 46 :his 1rd. :as 1an Llgh Llgh iller ;vho had she two ling rere and Nat rear ord.· she the the ttive the ~sive .328. JY a rear. /lark r1ade ,-••••G•• ••••••••••••••••••····e.e·ee·e•ee· ,o-e··e•• .. eM··'?=\··ee=r·••sweas~e·a ·mn•··n•ee••a· .m· ··eape····e·,.,.,, ... ••••··••••·.ee·eeceee•e••o.ee••H•••aoo••• ..... ••.......,._.. .................... ..,... •••••••• ~ \ - SPECIAL CAMP UNION ISSUE I • • • ~ . e '••••e•••••ae•••~ .. e••••••••••~••••••oe..•~!••••••••---•••• ... •••••••••••••••~•• ... ••••••••••:o ... $..-eea ..... ...-....- • ..-aQ•••••••••••••••••••e•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••o•••••••••••••••••' 1877 CXI, No. 25 York May 27, 1982 Display Issue Unsettled By DOUG LANDON News Editor Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea has On May 14, President Morris responded to the Student Affairs Council (SAC) recommendation for a subcouncil of its own members to organize exhibits in Shaffer Library display cases by explaining that the matter is outside the Council's jurisdiction. He did not veto the meas)lre, but rather turned it over. to Vice President of Academic Affairs D'Andrea, who oversees all Library policy. Through the proposal, the handled the display-case Issue. Commencement Speech Set By DOUG LANDON News Editor William M. Ellinghaus, President, Chief Operating Of- ficer, and Director of the American Telephone and Te1egraph Company, will deliver the commencement address on Sunday, June 13. Ellinghaus will be Honorary Chancellor for the ceremonies and will be awarded an honorary Doctor of Htiman Letters degree. Honorary degrees will also be awarded to Stanley G. Peschel '52, founder, chairman, and President of Hipotronics, Inc., of Brewster, N.Y., and Dr. William Henry Oldendorf '45, a Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry at the U.C.L.A. School of Medicine. Union will award about 685 bachelor's and master's degrees and five doctorates in . ceremonies marking the commencement of the College's 188th year. The commencement program will begin at 10 a.m. on Shaffer Library Plaza. Ellinghaus went to work as a ··ATTENTION SENIORS!!! There will be a brief meeting for ALL SENIORS Wednesday, June 2 at 12:30 pm in Memorial Chapel. Commencement Weekend activities will be discussed. AU Seniors are encouraged to attend. phone instaHer for the Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Company of Maryland a few months after his high school graduation· in 1940. From 1943 to 1945 he was Navy sonarmanand instructor, and returned to the telephone comp-any in 1946. He rose .through the ranks in Maryland, Virginia, and West Virginia and, in 1962, became Vice President for Accounts. In 1965 - he became Assistant Vice President at A.T. & T., leaving in 1970 to become President of New York Telephone Company. He rejoined A. T. & T. in 1976 as Vice Chairman and Director and assumed his present post in 1979. Ellingham,; is a director of several companies, a trustee of St. John's University and Colgate University, Honorary Director of the New York League for the Hard of Hearing, and a board member of the United Way of America, the American National Red Cross, the Economic Development Council of New York City, and the Greater New York Council of the Boy Scouts of America. Dean Search Peschel's company, which designs and manufactures a wide range of heavy-duty, high- voltage electrical \'equipment has more than 200 employees and tB near the top of the list of fast-gtowing issues traded on the American Stock Exchange. After serving as a radio tran- smitter specialist in the Korean War, Peschel became Chief Engineer for his father's elec- tronics firm. Eager to branch out, he began Hipotronics, an acronym for High Potential Electronics, in 1962. In 1975, the College dedicated the Stanley G. Peschel Center for Computer Science l;lnd Information Systems. A member of Eta Kappa Nu, the National Honorary Society for Electrical Engineers, ·he is a director for the Putman County Savings Bank and the Millbrook School. OldendQrf received his M.D. degree from Albany Medical College and began his medical career as an intern ··at Ellis Hospital in Schenectady. He later received additional training in neurology, Continued on page 2 Undecided By PAUL GROSSMAN The Administration's search for . a permanent Dean of Students remains unfinished as of this issue's deadline. President Morris, aware of the fact that this was the last Concordiensis of this academic year, stated earlier this week, \Unfortunately I will not have an announcement to make in time for the deadline. I apologize, but circumstances have made it impossible.\ The President would not comment on the nature of the circumstances, but it is fairly certain that he has narrowed the field to three candidates. The President has been in contact with the candidates, and is still weighing the many factors that he must consider prior to making his decision. While the decision was not yet made by press time, the President appeared fairly certain that an announcement would be made in the near future. Don Spring, the Acting Dean of Students, was appointed last year at this time to fill the vacancy created by the resignation of former Dean of Students Robert Kellett. Spring, who has been one of the can- didates for the permanent position, has reportedly been quietly anxious about the up- coming decision. President Morris has remained deter· mined to take as much time as necessary to evaluate the candidates prior to making his much awaited decision. Council had hoped to gain the authority to display student and faculty projects in the Librar-y: At the May 20th SAC meeting, D'Andrea justified the President's action saying the Council had exceeded its authority by making the recommendation. He e\'plained that the matter involves Academic Affairs, which is in his bailiwick. D'Andrea also indicated that he is in- vestigating possibilities for such exhibits, perhaps even located in the Library, as Morris believes in the necessity for the safe display space for student and faculty exhibits. Assistant Director of Shaffer Library Ruth Ann Evans ex- pressed disappointment with Morris' refusal to decide the issue, because of her in- volvement with both the Library and the SAC. She had hoped for a subcommittee to help eliminate the irrespon- sibility she observes with the delivery of incoming display material. Ev~ns hastens to point out, though, that she understands the action resulted from a question of jurisdiction and not from Morris' personal feelings toward the proposal. Last Thursday, two students, Dave Eppler and Steve Weil (Eppler is on the SAC), met with D'Andrea and presented him with a petition of about 500 names supporting the organization of a committee to oversee attractions in the display cases. Forty of the names were those of faculty. According to Weil, D'Andrea reiterated the SAC's lack of authority in the matter, implied personal disagreement with the idea, and suggested that the pair find a more creative solution to the problem. Well said D'Andrea contends it is his 1ob to implement the opinion of the community, but indicated he would not attempt to put this proposal into effect unless Library Director Jean Pelletiere agreed to it. Dorms Overflow By MARCY BURSTINER News Editor Tuesday, May 25, marked the last night of the housing lottery. According to Dave Wood, Director of Residence Li\fe more and more students desire on-campus housing in recent years. Although the renovations for Hickok House, planned for this coming summer, will provide a few more rooms, some students will be forced off- campus due to an insufficient amount of housing available. Wood went on to say that although all seniors and juniors who desired rooms on-campus were accommodated, the sophomores were not as for- tunate. The fact that some students will be forced off campus next year could not be helped, he explained; and went on to say that there are more beds for sophomore men this year than there have been in the past two years. On tbe other Features Letters hand, he continued, less rooms were allotted to women due to the low number of women enrolled in the Class of 1985. The suites in Fox and Davidson were allotted quickly as all but two were taken before the doubles in North College were filled. According to Wood, this was unusual, as North is usually the first dormitory to fill up. Overall, four more seniors have signed up for on-campus housing than last year and there was a decrease of ten juniors. Although more on-campus housing is definitely needed, no plans for additional housing is scheduled for the near future, renovations of existing dor- -mitories excluded. Administration is apparently concerned over predicted decreases in student enroiJment. As 'the number of students enrolled decreases, the campus . community wiil become smaller .. pp. 4 & 5 pp.8&9 C~mp Union Section ' <·,_ pp. 10 & 11 ..• ~ - pp. 12 & 13; . :~ pp.~ 15 &·16,r . . :'· --~- -·. - : . t1~fWf~~~f.i1f\Nr:ttat1li;1{~f{~L~h~it\ilf, :'::~:~~~:.;D-;:: ';_·-~>h.~ ·- -.~~ ,_., ·. :·

Page 2 CONOORDIENSIS, Ma!JI S\' t98~ WEDNESDAY, JUNE 9 Evening Senior Cruise and Music, on Lake George. THURSDAY, JUNE 10 Afternoon Senior PicD.ic, Thatcher Park. Beverages provided and round trip bus transportation available with sign up. FRIDAY,JUNE 11 9:00a.m. Alumni Golf Toumaroent, Mohawk Golf Club. 9:00 a.m.-6:00p.m. Registration, Lamont House. · \:30 p.m. Minerva's Race. Assemble near Garis Field: A 1·mile and 3·mile rac.e over the cross· country course. For all alumm, faculty, guests and sentors. 3:30 p.m. ..A Union of People,\ Social Sciences BuHding, Room ?16. Unio~·s 1 1 . ., award-winning ft:lm that captures the essence of academtc and sooa 11e on campus as seen through the eyes of students and faculty. 4:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m. Reception in honor of Sh._.i Kong Yuen '42, Schaffer Library, Music Room. Evening Class ReUnion Dinners. 6:00 p.m.-Midnight Junior ReUnion for Children (ages 6·16) Memorial Fieldhouse. 9:00 p.ni.-!:00 a.m. Alumni Gala-Fest, Girling Center. SATURDAY, JUNE 12 H:l\i a.m. Estate Affairs Breakfast/Seminar, Hale House Dining Room. 9:00 a.m.--Noo!\ r ... gistration, lamont House. 10:00 a.m. ReUnion Class Photographs, Alexander Field. 11 O ·o ••umni Parade. Forms on Alexander Lane, moves to Lenox Road and : a.m. .ftl. 1 Union Avenwe, in the 1884 Gate, down South Lane to Memorial Chape (where it will be reviewed), to seating in Library Plaza for the Convocation. Noon Alumni Convocation, Schaffer Library Plaza. Welcoming of the Class of 1982 into Society of Alumni. Presentation of Alumni Gol~ Medals and Faculty Meritorious Service Award. Address and presentatton of parade trophies by President JohnS. Morris. 12:30 p.m. Designation of the Whipple Tmss Bridge as a National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark. 12:30 p.m. Chimes Concert, Memorial Chapel, Peter K. Smith '70. 12:30 p.m. \A Union of People,\ Social Sciences Building, Room ~16 .. 12:30 p.m.-3:30p.m. Alumni Picnic, Girling Center. Seniors and parents are mvlted. · Adults - $6, Under 12 - $3. 4 00 President's Reception, Hale House Cot:lft. For all seniors, alumni and : p.m. C II ) their families and guests, and faculty. (Rain location - West o ege. Evening Class ReUnion Dinners. . . 6:00p.m. & 8:00p.m. Steamship Round Buffet, Hale House Dmmg Room. AH you can eat Steamship Round Beef, variety of vegetables, salads, dess~n~, etc. A~ults - $7.'i0, Under 12 -· $3.'50. Cash bar in Lower Lounge. Ltmtted seattng: early reservations suggested by calling the Adumni Office at (Sl8) 370-{}168. 7:00p.m. Terrace Council Dinner. 9:00 p.m.-1:00 a.m. Saturday Night Affair, Achilles Rink Entertainment ~nd dancing.to the Big Band Sound of Al Cavalieri and .His Orchestra: Se.mors ~nd thetr parents will be guests of the Alumm Office. Obtam ttckets m advance at the Alumni Office, Lamont House. SUNDAY,JUNE 13 R:oo\a.m.-11:00 a.m. Bon Voyage Breakfast Buffet, West College Dining Room. All you can eat: eggs, french toast, bagels, sausage, danish, juice, etc. Adults- $6. Under 12 - $3. 8:00 a.m.-10:00 a.m. Coffee, doughnuts, and soda available outside Carnegie Hall. 10:00 a.m. Commencement Exercises, Schaffer Library Plaza (Rain location - Achilles Rink, tickets required). Honorary Chancellor: William M. Ellinghaus, President, American Telerhone and Telegraph Company. TAKE CREDIT FOR THE PERFECT SUMMER CHOICE The Cornell University Summer Session offers you a unique opportunity to enrich your academic program while you enjoy New York State's beautiful Finger Lakes region. At Cornell you can fulfill requirements, accelerate your degree program, or simply take the courses that you've always had to put off. As a Cornell summer student you can enjoy a remarkable variety of courses and learning experiences in an environment of lakes, parks, ravines, and waterfalls. Ithaca itself is a small cosmopolitan city set in a magnificent, varied countryside that offers water sports, winery tours, climbing and camping, summer theater, soaring and biking, birding and hiking .... Call or write for program details and see for yourself why Cornell is the place to invest your summer for the best return. Tuition is $145 per credit hour. CORNELL UNIVERSITY SUMMER SESSION 8-12G IVES HALb. ITHACA, N.Y. 14853 607-256-4987 Coach Heads Camp (CNB)~Bill Scanlon, Union College Basketball Coach will conduct}J.is lOth summer c.amp. The camp, which will be held in four separate age 'bracketed sessions, will concern itself with introduCing or reinforcing the basic fundamentals of basket ball in an environment that is enjoyable and conducive to learning. Areas of instruction will in- clude: .shooting, passing, ball handling, rebounding, offensive moves, defense, moving without the ball, and foul shooting. A conditioning period and thirty minute games will be held daily. Each session, which will run from 8:45 a.m. until noon, will have a maximum of 72 par- ticipants to insure that an ef- fective instructor-camper ratio is maintained. Assisting Scanlon will be Chuck Abba, head coach at Voorheesville High School; Gregg Olson, head coach at Scotia-Glenville; Jim Tedisco, head coach at Bethlehem; John Denio, head coach at Albany College of Pharmacy; Tom Bacher, jayvee coach at Columbia High School; Jim Zullo, head coach at Shenen- dehowa; and area college players. Grant A warded David Wollin '83, a political science-sociology major and Winthrop Thurlow '84, a I Speech ••• Continued from page 1 psychiatry, and neurophysiology in Binghamton, New York City, · Minneapolis, and London. The EMI Corporation of England purchased his patent, made him a consultant, and began to develop what are now known as computerized axial tomography scanners. In 1975 he received the prestigious Lasker Foun- dation award for his concept, which is considered the most important advance in diagnostic radiology since the discovery of x-rays in 1895. He is a member of the Society of Nuclear Medicine and the American Academ3 · of Arts and Sciences and a fellow of the American Academy of Neurology. His specialization is nuclear medicine applied to clinical neurological research. political science major have been awarded a $1 1 000 grant by the International Education :Fund te attend the summer conference of the Internal Society for Research on Aggression in Mexico City, Me~co. 'They have been invited to deliver their paper entitled', \Aggression Between Men and Women at a Small, Private., Uberal Arts College\ which studies the incidences of violence between men and women undergraduates at Union College. A version of the study was originally designed and analyzed during the Winter Term by the Methods of Social Research (Sociology 60, Political Science 21) class taught by Martha Huggins, Assistant Professor of Sociology. This .term, David Wollin, working through an independent study with ~rofessor Huggins, and Win- throp Thurlow, a stu4ent from the Research Methods Class, have compiled the data collected by the Methods class into one large, systematic report for presentation at the · Mexico City Conference. A copy of the research report has also been prepared for the faculty. administration and student body. The conference will be held August 13-16, 1982. Proposals Submitted There is a possibility the food service may be expanding into Carnegie Hall next year. The I idea was formulated by two . members o~ the Student Affairs . Committee, David Eppler and Ilene Landress. They made up surveys asking students if they would use the new food service if it was located in Carnegie Hall. The result of the survey indicated that the new service would be used and that it was a good alternative to West College and Hale House. Eppler and Landress drew up separate proposals· and submitted them to the Vice President. If - be approves it, he will pass it on to President Morris. The recommendation is still in the discussion stage, and may be resolved over the sUlllmer. · SEE CAMP UNION SECTION FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE REVISIONS HELP INC. MONDAY, JUNE 7, 8:39-10:30 . Economics 11 (Elementary Economics) sec. 2-Lewis-SS117 Physics 24 (Statistical Thermodynamics)-Peak-BH102 E.S. 20 (Mechanics 11-Panlilio-BHllO. TUESDAY, JUNE 8, 8:39-10:00 . E.S. 10 (Mechanics I) sec. 1-I.akbaopal...;BH104 TUESDAY, JUNE 8, 11:15-1:15 Mathematics 14 (Calculus ill) sec. 4-Zlmmerman-BH207 TUESDAY, JUNE 8, 2:004:00 Chemistry 16 (Inorganic Chemistry I).....Scaife-BU109 Chemistry 30 (Organic Chemistry l)-8heffer-BU204 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 9, 11:15-1:15 Italian 10 (:Basic Italian I)-Dellario-88113 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 9, 2:00-4:00 , Liberal Learning 12 (James Joyce: Finnegan's Wake)- Peterson-HU117 Chemistry 10 (Fundamental Chemistry I} Sec. 1-Weick-BU204 Sec. 2-Guare-BU204 Sec. 3-Weick-BU204 IS PLEAS-ED TO ANNOUNCE THAT IT IS ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FROM STUDENTS FOR FINANCIAL AID FOR SCHOOL YEAR 1983. Help Inc. is a non-profit orgaf1ization whose principal objective is to provide financia I aid to .students. We do not discriminate for reasons of sex, color, race, .age or religion. A small increase in available funds plus so.me planned savings allowed us to contact additional schools. A warm welcome to new schools and sincere thanks to those schools that helped us last year with our program. For further information and application forms, students are invited to send us a 3 x 5 inch card with their name, permanent address, school name and address. Please include $2.00 for postage and handling. Due to previous experience we are fo.rced to ask for this amount. Please send your m~il to: HELP.INC. P .0. Box 5334 Lincoln Park, Ml 48146 (CPS they sc Hs · \stre. radio,' \It's says , Music Angele it fron ···n Public Jazz, J Nordir rambl: home The .currer camp\ there so met \Th sopl discril habit: progr Unive ChapE look vent1 comp1 think renai: am on KNO, appe~ N01 work: ChicB later radic - freelc \St says, it,\ (CF first 1 stude1 seling co nee in fin Ma predi finan serim ment: .N01 stud~ numt the c with Ov numt Ul C< by 0' says, and probl in th \It stu dE maki Ron serv cent1 \T obse worr side1 they1 year \IJ stud~ cone seen taUt: extr~ geU prog

CONOOBDIENSIS, .May 1'1 1 1!J8B Unusual Radio Show ~ains Campus Cult th~;~~~~Hepamts wtthwords, .On \Word Jazz~'. ~e mixes it ~d someone said Ken Nor~e Hs work has been called wtth ~ounds, music, . poetry, lives. there. I went to see him, \stream-of-conscio usnes.s narrative. and droll dia~ogues and Jumped at the chance.\ radio,\ and an \audio college.\ ~ong hts vas! rept:rtmre of \It's just plain unlikely , vo1ces and ~us1cal tr1cks., Nordine at the time was says Jerrold Kane of K~e The result is a J~es Joycean syndicating his show to 40 some Music Promotions In Los dart through the. a1rw~:ves. stations on his own. Even now, An 1 · \B t 1 h 1 As one Nordine--wr1tten ad with 120·stations in tow, Nordine Hostile Classes , gees. · u . ear.a ot about describes it ''Ken Nordine ill \probably doesn't make any tt from college radio people.\ · • . w ''It is a strange National undress your ffil!ld! scramble money from it, \ Bos says. (.CPS)-Women students generally . find the college classroom a more hostile place-and thus emerge from college With lower self-esteem and ambitions-than male students do, a new report from the Project on the Status and Education of Women suggests . Public Radio show called Word you~ . se~ses, elinu~ate your Jazz, put together by one Ken equll.tbr!u~, rewtre your Nordine on the third floor of a em?tlons, liber~te your fan- rambling, turn-of-the-century tasl~s. Star with y~ur. ears. home on Chicago's North Sid Obliterate normality. And Th k e. · explore layer on layer of words, e wee ly program sounds and special effects and .currently I!lays ~n. over . ~0 imagination.\ campus radio stat~ons, and 1t s It may be a bit thick, but it's there . that . he s become earned Nordine \a very strong, so~ething of a cult her. loyalist kind of cult following,\ The .stud~nts here are very says John Box, National Public s ;o P.h ~ s t.1 c .at e .d . a·~ d Radio's {NPR) director of arts disc~un~?atmg mt!telr hstemng and performance program· hab1ts, sa~s Ttm Warner, ming. pr~gral!l duector at . t~e It is not easy listening. \I'm UmversttY. o~ North; Car~~a-:- not interested in people saying, Chapel Hill s . statio!}. They 'What a wonderful effectl' \ look for s~methmg . ad- Nordine says. \I want meaning. ventur?us, tn!ellect;ually If the audience listens carefully co!Dpellmg and mnoyatlve. I enough it can be a catalyst for- thm~ that ~xplam~ .the their own daydreaming.\ renaissance of mterest m Jazz . . . among students today, and I '\ He ~ehes on a Jaz~ idiom that KNOW that explains Nordine's establishes a mustcal theme, appeaL\ from ~hich variations -are Nordine started .a radio ~awn m segments he calls workshop at the University of riffs. Chicago -in the bite thirties, Box came across him by later switched to commercial accident. \I had an old album of radio, and then started his called 'Stare With Your - freelancing. Ears,' which blew me away but \Sure I have a voice,\ he ~hich I later completely forgot says, \but I learned how to use about. Then years later I had to it.\ go to Chicago for a conference, More Aid Blues ( CPS)-College counselors first noticed last fall that more students were visiting coun- seling centers, most of them concerned over impending cuts in financial aid. - Many of the counselors predicted then thl!t such financial worries could have serious effects on students' mental health. . Now a University of Iowa study reports that record numbers of students are visiting the carp.pus counseling center with the \financial aid blues.\ Over the last year, the number of students visiting the UI counseling center increased by over 35 percent, the study says, ~nd cuts in financial aid and other money-related problems play a significant role in the increase. \It used to be that most students were worried about making it academically,\ says Ron May, director. of clinical services at the counseling center and director of the study. \That's all changed now,\ he observes. \Now they are worried about financial con- siderations. Many are not sure theycan pay for s<:!hool next year.\ \The biggest danger of the so- called 'financial aid blues',\ says May, \is that it reduced a student's ability to cope with the normal, day-to-day problems of college life.\ \It lowers their coping threshold,\ he, says. \If they're having trouble with a relationship or something else, this saps .their resources and causes them to come in for counseling when they wouldn't otherwise.\ May says the center is \seeing a lot of students who would normally use existing support sources-friends, family, and· fellow students- but they just reach their stress threshold faster, and need additional counseling.\ \Typically/' he says, \financial aid is just one of the many· problems that students bring to tht center.\ \Students are coming in with more multiple concerns,\ he reports. \They may have a number of worries-personal relationships, academic, social-and financial ~aid j1;1st throws them over their limit.\ The counseling center has also noted \a lot of suicide potential this year,\ May says, although the actual number of \psychological emergencies\ has declined. 'He does his commercials and video graphics, and then goes home and does these fantasies of the mind for us.,. . \I try not to be ·oored,\ says Nordine in explaining he produces \Word Jazz\ to please himself. \I get bored very easily, and I assume the audience does as well.\ The report, drawn from a compilation of surveys, studies and other research, says faculty members subtly discomfort their female students by using sexist humor in class, by ad- Computer Frauds (CPS )-Micro·computer companies are duping many schools and colleges into buying computers that are over- powered and · over-priced for classroom needs, says a CaUfornia group formed to combat what it calls \computer overkill.\ The group says educators are consequently creating a giant classroom white elephant. The San Francisco-based Committee on Basic Skills. Education, which bills itself as a citizens' action group of educators and industry experts, says it is out to stop the \'bandwagon effect' being promulgated by the microcomputer industry to put costly general purpose com- puters into virtually every American classroom.\ \We're not anti-tech or anti- co~p~ter in the schools,\ says comnuttee spokesman Terry Burke. \What we're against are high-priced, personal com- . puters and all the peripheral equipment being pushed on the\ schools when less-costly dedicated computers can do the job.\ Computer companies often tell schools it is vital for their students to become \computer literate,\ .and then sell the sc.hools general-purposed microcomputers to do the job, although cheaper \dedicated computers\-those designed to a set number of jobs-would do just as well, Burke says. Schools end up stressing computer literacy at the ex- pense of basic skills Uke reading and writing, Burke adds. Apple Computers Inc., for example, often gives schools free computers, but the tack, claims committee founder Dr. Daniel ·Peck, an education professor at San Francisco State, is \nothing but a sales gimmick.\ \Computers are a clearly- demonstrated aid to a more efftive education,\ Apple spokesman Stan DeVaughn says. \Our position is that we're not educators, and we don't . purport to be. But we do manufacture a tool that is of enormous use in an educational setting.\ This Afternoon-3:00pm (Thurs., May 27) Delta Chi's CHARITY BEER BLAST BAND PARTY FeatiJring 11 Freefall\ Tickets: $2.00 Hamburger & Hot Dog Barbeque--25c Raffle Prizes to benefit the Amer.ican Cancer Society dressing classes as if no women were present, by being -less likely to call on women in class, by interrupting female students more often, and other instances of seemingly inconsequential behavior. Teachers, says report autbor Roberta Hall, \may not realize that what may seem like trivil things may be very upsetting to women students.\ While women tend to get higher grades than men, the climate they find in class in- fluences how they come out of college with markedly lower self confidence,\ Hall points out. Lower self confidence, in turn, can fundamentally alter the value of education to women, adds group director Bernice Sandler. \Looking beyond the im- mediate classroom setting, women's career choices are often narrowed, and women's ability to work together as equals-both in school and in the workplace-may be un- dennined by an inhospitable college learning climate,\ Sandler . said in a prepared statement released with the report. Classrooms are made inhospitable, the report suggests, by faculty behavior tendencies that, according to empirical studies, range from calling on women less frequently to making less eye contact to, as Hall puts it, \using stories that have all the doctors and lawyers as men, and the client as 'she' \. Because-such behavior might seem minor, Hall is \sure there will be individual faculty (members) who won't take the problem seriously.\ But she adds that the project office has \been overwhelmed in some instances\ by requests from campuses for bulk orders of the report. The report offers ad- ministrators, faculty members and student groups guidelines for solving the problem. Guidelines, says Hall, are a first step. They raise the aw~reness of people who may not even realize that those kinds · of behavior may be a problem. \Many people felt that with the passage of Title IX (of the Higher Education Amendments of 1972, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of gender) that women's problems were taken care of,\ Hall says. \But it was apparent that certain actions, while -not illegal, were causing problems in the way students were treated.\ Since the offending behavior \more often than not is unconscious,\ Hall thinks colleges will be receptive to adopting some of the guidelines. \In addition,\ May says, \the students are saying that their concerns are urgent. We're seeing more of a crisis men- tality. Students ar,e coming in extremely upset that they can't get a loan or into a financial aid program.'' Puzzle Answer The CafllPUS Store Presents: PEANUTS(!) by Charles -M. Schutz ~-------------------------~ 1/------------~--------~. TWO WEEKS AT 11 BEANBA6 GOODBLfE, 816 BROTI-IER.. DON'T WORRV ABOUT IT! IS TI·HS THE LINE FOR .THE BUS? CAMP\! NOTf-IING TO PO I'LL WRITE IF TI-\EL/ JUST RELA'><, A!\ID FOR TWO WEEKS E)(.CEPT GIVE US \T ME E J0' 1 YOU1:15c: F LIE IN A BEANBAG 1fHI5 . . I ... _N_,____,· ,____\ __ ,;;._L_._ .. __ 15 60NNA BE PERFECT! 1 -....-:--_:...........-~~ •. ·..w-~..o...e::-:.;.:..::.-:..:.:~~;;;;.:;w.:::::.;;:_~~-..:·.--;.-~-~·.;:t- ... -:::.:.,;..:;:_;:;,:;__;:::::,:.=---::..:;r_.,..-=.:,._:_::.~=.::r=-~.-~==-=;._-.:_;;,.~~~~=-.-~---J~.c ~' ~--~= \::=

OONOOBDIEZVBIB~ May B?' 1 198! features Classic Transitions . By MITCHELL CHESS Staff The Classics department is undergoing many changes. By next fall the Classics professors with the most seniority will be Professor Alice Ziegelis, who came to Union this year. This was a tough year for Union Classics department, a year of transition and many changes. The year began without Professor Ruellette. She opted for a career in business and left\ Union. Don't be fooled by the directory on the library plaza side of the Hwnanities building which still lists her as Chairman of the department, U you go to her office she won't be there. During the course of fall term tragedy struck the Classics department with the death of Professor Reece. The classics department then consisted of Professor Robert Ketterer, who became department chairman. Professor Alice Zigelis was then hired. Officially, she is a part time professor although she is now carrying a full course load. This is the present con- dition of the classics depart- ment: one full time and one part-time professor. Next fall, however, things will change. Coming this fall, Professor Christina Sorum will assume the duties of chairman of the classics department. Professor Sorum ' is returning to Union after 8 years absence. In the 1974-75 school year Professor Sorum first joined the staff, but left at the end of that year. She is currently Chairman of the Classics department of North Carolina State University at Raliegh, a position she is leaving to teach at Union. Although we are gaining Professor Sorum, we will be losing Professor Ketterer to Notre Dame. Next winter :Professor Ziegelis will be travelling with the group going on the term abroad in Greece. While she is in Greece the department will be hiring a Greek historian, It is not yet known who this new Professor will be, and, whether or not Professor Ziegelis will be returning in the Spring. One might be wondering how the curriculum is going to be effected by all of this change. In an interview, Professor Ziegelis said that at this moment any change is uncertain, depending upon the desires of Professor Sorum. North Carolina State University at Raleigh ·lacks a major in the classics. The new chairman is hoping to build a classics major at Union. Professor Sorum is very interested in Greek Drama so this will probably be expanded in the curriculum. Trying to increase student enthusiam for courses such as .beginning Greek and Latin will also possibly be one the goals of the classics department. Since it is not yet known who will be the new historian it is difficult to say where their interests will be. However, Professor Ziegelis does say that there will probably be an expansion in the ancient history cirriculum, similiar to what Professor Reece offered. This .past year for the classics department has been difficult one. After many problem~ fall term, Professors Ketterer and Zigelis have attempted to restore classics at Union. Professor Zigelis says that the college has shown a Willingness to help improve the classics department and will help Professor Sorum illtroduce her programs. Professor Zigelis believes that Professor Sorum could expand the classics department greatly if she puts her mind to it. The courses for next fall show a nice balance between language, history, and literature. The year ahead holds promise for the department of newcomers. Perhaps we \ will see new life in the ancient studies. Housing Alternatives By DAVE FITZGERALD Staff If you happen to be one of the people that fate did not look kindly upon when it came to getting a housing lottery number, do not despair, because I have some suggestions for you. First, right on campus there is a place that comes free with just the payment of your tuition. This bargain is called \All-Night~ Study.\ It is located close to many of the academic buildings and is right next to that central meeting place, Schaffer Library. Of course one drawback is that there is little privacy. but just think, a~er 2 a.m. the bathroom is prac- tically all yours. Another more conventional choice is to try to find an off- campus apartment. There are many places that are close to the college and with a few roommates it probably is not that expensive. An added extra to this choice is that you can cook your own food. A suggestion that should be taken to look now, soon after the soph-· more lottery, because there are going to be many people looking for a place to live. One of my favorite choices is the city mission. Just think of what everyone will think when they hear about homeless Union College students. Just think, in this plan you are entitled to all the chicken soup that you can eat. You may even be able to pick-up sotne clothes. Now that I look back on this year, Mom and Dad's house is not too bad. Another thing .that they won't do is throw you out on the street. A more radical idea that I have heard about is camping- out on the new athletic field. This is not as bad as it sounds because the new field has a drainage sustem. so that the bottom of your tent will not get wet when it rains. It has also been brought to my attention that the new kerosene heaters that are sold are safe and will keep you very warm. A problem to this plan is that campfires for cooking will not be allowed, .so you are going to have to par- ticipate in a meal plan. Recently in a local newspaper there was a story that the Schenectady Jail was going to be remodeled. This would be just great sociology and psychology majors. So don't despair if the lottery has thrown you out into cold cruel Schenectady because there is always room someplace. All you have to do is be creative. Other ideas that came to mind include living at the train station, going to the waterbed store at Mohawk Mall each night right before they close, and riding around Schenectady all night in a cab. A'lL THOSE INTERESTED in the SENIOR CtASS GIFT COMMITTEE there will be a meeting Friday, May 28 at 3:30 in the Pub. If you cannot attend please contact Will Lloyd at 37 4-4898 Thank You CONCORDIENSIS For Everything Y~u~ve Given Us: U leers-Headaches Heartburn-Nightmares (and pleasure) Rachel and Paul Professor Robert Ketterer Is the present ·Chairmen of ffM Classics Department. ' Paper Chase By TIIOMAS CHING Staff In a memorable quote from the Paper Chase, \011rs is one (world) of paper-grades, books and money ... (they) determine marks, future lives, careers and salaries.\ The relevance of this harsh but realistic outlooks is obvious, ranging from those discreet gray envelopes neatly tucked in mailboxes to computer determined and printed cards for rooms and courses. Several factors which con- tribute to the popularity of a course include: the enlightening subject matter (Biology 66: Sec and Sexuality), popularity of instructors (Professor Heiilegg of Tragedy and Comedy) and' the workload involved (Organic Chemistry I and II). Con- sequently, the popularity of a course is directly proportionate to the rate of exchange of cards creating deficits and problems. Thus a prevalent occurrence ~ncountered by many students is having to wait in line hours before the cards are distributed. According to one personal account from Barton Levine there were five people waiting at the Biology Office when he arrived at 6:30a.m. for a perennial favorite-Bio 66. When it approached 8:00 a.m., two lines had formed and when the doors finally opened there was a· mass \chaotic scramble for cards.\ Although he was sixth in arriving, he received card number 27. For Levine, there was some disgust about the selfish attitude displayed by the students. When questioned, the in- structor of Biology 66, Professor Lambert, claimed he had no feasible solutions but admitted that the \card .system does not work anymore (and is) being abused now.\ However, Professor Lambert did concede that \certain individuals collect cards which they do not intend to use.\ In addition, he proposed placing an expiration date on the cards but he had doubts on the feasibility because it would prompt people to obtain and dispose of the cards promptly. Furthermore, Professor Lambert suggested increasing ---.WE DEUVER-- 374-1888 .. the sections but complications arise with the limited amount of faculty, time and rooms. One suggestion being considered is comparing the signup list with the actual attendance record .. But this proposal is not without flaws. The additional time, personnel and cooperation needed would make it im- practical. Similarly, Associate Dean Nelson of Undergraduate Studies considered the same proposal but opposed the idea because of its drawbacks. He strongly stressed the Administration's disdain for \looking over shoulders for potential bad motives.\ Although he admits the flaws of the 'Card ... system on a \first come, first served\ basis, it has \in theory at least been based on fairness and logic.\ When asked to comment on the blatant sale of cards, he pointed to the \unfair and scandalous\ actions of the vendor and said that it was a \perfect example of students abusing students.\ Moreover he feels that \the practice will stop only when stude11ts want it to stop\ by refusing to purchase the cards and ignoring the displays. One proposal mentioned by the three representatives of the student body, faculty and ad- ministration was to have a seniority system similar to the room lotteries. According to this proposal upperclassmen woulcl have first. preference of courses with the remaining openings to be filled by suc· cessive years. However, this prop()Sal has received negative feedback .from other members of the student body because of the limitations on available courses. Another option available was \to bring courses better into line with the levels of other courses\ according to Associate Dean Nelson, thus eliminating the so-called easier courses. Although there are numerous criticisms of the card system, there .are, unfortunately, no definite feasible plans to amend the process. However actions are being considered to curb the loopltoles through increased attention and consideration of altemative systems. 464 State st .. Schenectady, NY - I H - A ·int< ere da~ big' wa1 Wel wal edt a1t: col: to am the cat ma set aw me COl we teiJ Un re~ re~ re~ the wh ~ gh en I pr1 ap to thl ag pj - 1 Sl to B1 pr al al th m ·P< eJ tr e~ :a al rE Ill T Sl (i e1 a1 p: v: S] 1i n Cl

OONCOR~IENS18~ . Ma.v B7, 198S _·page I features Humor: · Some Aid Opportunities Prose on Cons By BOB VAN V()RIS Staf-f As spring term. begins to fade into summer, it becomes in- creasingly apparent that the days of federal support for hlgher education arealso on the wane. No longer will Union's welfare parasites be allowed to waste otn' tax dollars wantonly e_ducating themselves. Yet although federal funds for college students are beginning to dry up, there remains another source. A quick look at the last several pages of a Union catalogue will reveal a great many prizes, awards and scholarships that the college awards to students. Even so, most Union students are com.plete unaware of this vast wealth of funds which are in· tended to ease the high cost of a Union education. For this reason, I have done some · research in order to make these resources more available to those in the campus community who most need th~m. M.D. Sade fund. Preference is given to students who plan to enter Union's six year Med program. In the event that none applies, the scholarship will go to any student who can prove that he regularly bangs his head against trees and brick walls for no good reason. J.S.M. and r.s.b. scholarship. Established in their memory by relatives and friends. Preference given to students with severe manic disorders. Reverend Oliver Richmond Award. Given to any and all women of the ·college who demonstrate a minimwn level of chastity and moral virtue. Last awarded in 1911. George· Washington Educati·onal Endowment. Established by Local2203 of tbe United States Mint Workers Union to defray the cost of educating the~ children of those members whom Union judges to be the most hard working. Awarded annually to the student whose parents make the most money. Union Views Award. (To be discontinued) Awarded an- nually on the basis of a com- petitive essay limited to: the staff of Union Views. The month of February will be set aside for this purpose. , Concordiensis Award. A cash· stipend of $2000 to be awarded to the author of the best original piece of writing in each of the three categories that have traditionally been the main- stays of the paper: notices, character assassination, and Peanuts .. American Association of Phil. Forum Speaker Tibetan Buddhism By AMY TERHUNE Staff Dr. Laura Roth, a physicist at SUNY-Albany, recently spoke to the Philosophy Forwn on Buddhism. Dr. Roth is a practicing Tibetan Buddhist, and so her charming lecture and discussion carried with them a certaln sincerity which might not otherwise have been ·possible. Her truly enlightening explanation of the four noble truths of Buddhism was especially interesting. The l3uddha proclaimed that there are four noble truths whose recognition lead to enlighten- ment, and hence, to escape. These truths are tbat life is suffering, suffering has a cause (in desire), suffering can be escaped, and this. escape can be achieved through tlle eight-fold path which consists of right view, right intention, right speech, right action., right livelihood, right effort, right mindfulness, and right con~ centralion. At the heart of Buddhist teaching is purity: purity of thought and action. Such purity is attained only in and through the escape of suffering, which necessarily entails following the eight-fold path. Needless to say, the discussion generated about the presuppositions of · Buddhism, as well as the means by which the Buddhist .attempts to escape suffer'ing, and, hence, life was enjoyable and lively. Everyone who attended · went away feeling slightly bewildered by -both the ease with which this doctrine spells out the proper way of life, and the difficulties inherent in following it. The Philosophy Forwn, in its attempts to bring up issues of popular interest, is asking for suggestions for other topics and speakers. ~ext Tuesday, the Forum has Invited a physician to speak about certain issues in medical ethics. The Philosophy Forum is making philosophy at Union public, accessible, and readily understandable - even though it may not ever definitely answer any questions. Emily Haft Concordiensis \ ... new music ... individual .... talented ... distinctive ... \ ACADEMIC WARNING wiH be appearing in the Pub - Tuesday, June 1, 1982 at 10:00 Proctologists PriZe. Awarded annually to the senior who has achieved the highest standard of lower intestinal health.. Winner will be chosen by a process of elimin?tion. I have listed but a few of the many funds which Union offers the qualified student who would otherwise be unable to attend college. It is hoped that students who £ind themselves thrown into dire financial straits by the Reagan budget cuts will take heed -of the generous financial aid opportunities offered by Union College. In this way they ·may avoid following the examples of other desperate students who, .to finance their educations, are turning to the degradations of prostitution, drug dealing, and fast .food restaurants. By DAVE FITZGERALD Staff There has been a great amount of talk lately of how being at Union is like being part of a big soap opera. It is said that everyone knows everything about everyone else and that some people attempt to gain and use power in this com- munity for their own ends. Every week Concordiensis has given an update on the slow- moving but suspenseful \Union Story.'' Because this is the last issue for this year it seems appropriate to me, that all the things of our story' that we are going to have to wait to know until fall, should be sum- marized. One continuing process that has interested everyone this year is the search for a new Dean of Students. Throughout the year, everyone has won- der~d who would be picked out of the vast number of qualified applicants. It now seems that this is going to be one of those \cliff-hangers\ that every prospective student will wonder about all summer. A re~l stunner this year was the appearance of a fake Con- cordy on campus. This event was something that added a little excitement to the Fall term and now we have to wonder what will occur next year that will change the regular routine here at Union. This year one of the biggest news stories was the weekly doings of the Student Forwn. The Forum is where people fight for power and fame just like the big guys do in Congress. Government here at Union even In Milton Bradley's game Monopoly, all you have to do to get into jail is pick up a card that infonns you that you have to ~·Go to Jail!! Do Not Pass Go! Co Not Collect $200!\ In order to get out of jail, all you have to \do is pay $50. It's that simple, because Monopoly is just a game. In real life, things aren't as simple. In order to go to jail in real life sometimes requires a lot of hard work and deter- mination. In New York,City, the conviction rate per felony is very low. This is due to a number of reasons, namely the over-crowded prison system. Another reason is that sometimes there isn't enough evidence to convict. For in- stance,-when I was mugged two years ago, plainclothesmen from the 23 Precinct's Anti- Crime Division arrested the comes with an inquisitive press that tries to report everything that the student leaders try to do. This governing body had all the traits of a government in Washington including an inquisitive press, which it later tried to squash. This great body, however, does leave many things unanswered. Will it ever have a set of By-laws so .that it will have a set of rules to operate Wlder? (Of course, without by- laws, the Forum would not be able to regulate procedures constantly). Can it stop graft or will leaders of committees and activities be able to profit again next year from self-serving crime? In the fall, the Forwn will have new leaders who will hopefully be better. But if we knew that now, then there would be nothing exciting to wonder about over the summer. Will student apathy increase or decrease? If in the fall nobody returns, I would guess that it has increased. This is something of great concern or maybe nobody cares? Of course, an important question is whether or not students will be able to use the display cases in the library. This will be great for next year's episodes because I can just imagjne all the groups fighting to put their displays in the cases. This could result in fights and in complaints to the Forum which woula alladd up to one very ex:citing year. So as you can plainly see \The Union College Story\ is far from being over. Be sure to tune in again next year for our continuing drama. Union's PUC ByWRIKAPLAN When I was elected PHC representative from my sorority, I didn't really know what to ex:pect. PHC has not exactly been one of Union's foremost organizations. However, in the past year, the once donnant gr()up has taken an active role in the governing of our three sorot\ities. On PriZe Day, PHC awarded several prizes to Union's sororities. Sigma Delta Tau was honored for Outstanding Community Sen'ice. Tri-Delta received the Outstanding Leadership Prize. The award for Outstanding Scholarship was presented to Delta Gamma. Susan Ensel, of Delta Gamma, received the Outstanding Greek Woman Award for her con- siderable schola,rship and in- volvement in many aspects of Union life. The Schenectady Chapter of Alumni PHC awarded Cheryl Alylesworth, of Tr,i-Delta, a $200 scholarship for her academic achievements. PllC would once again like to congratulate all of the award recipeints. Currently, the Council is busy planning a terrific rush for next fall. Now that I know what to expect, I an say that . I'm proud to be a member of Union's up-and- coming Panhellinic Council. three. Two weeks later, I had to go down to Centre Street in order to sign a deposition against the one who was not yet sixteen years old. The only problem was that I was not sure which of the three was under sixteen, so I couldn't sign tbe deposition, and they were supposed to get in touch with me a week later. They didn't, and for all I know, he's still lurking about, mugging people and not getting arrested beca11Se he isn't -of age. To get out of prison, you need more than fifty bucks. It took F. Lee Baily $100,000 to get his charge reduced, and he wasn't goint to jail, although he did spend some time at Union. Jail in Monopoly isn't too bad, because you don't get abused by the system. But games do not imitate life, always; and cer- tainly not in this case. To say that liie in prison is tough sounds trite, but it's true. In prison, you can get abused by the system, by the inmates and by the guards. First of all, the prisons are all over crowded. That was one of the catalysts in the Attica uprising ten years ago. As far as abuse from the inmates, if someone looks at you the wrong way, you're expected to fight. Even if you lose, that's better than not fighting at all. The guards can abase the inmates more mentally than physically. When we, who were a part of Professor Jack Lipton's field .trip to ,the minimum-seclll\ity Hudson Correctional Facility, were crossing to get to the cafeteria, we were allowed to walk over the field-'Something for which the inmates would get punish~d. I was going to jail, I jokingly told my friends right before I .left, when they wanted to know why I was up so early on a Sunday. In fact we all joked about it, especially those jokes we knew we couldn't say once inside. Nothing prepared me for what I actually saw. Because it was a minimum-security prison, the Hudson facility didn't seem so bad. What did was that they couldn't leave. USHERS Needed for commence-· ment • ceremonaes Stop in Student Affairs or call 6061

Page 6 O()NOORDIENSIS, May 1!1, 1981! ~rts & Culture Fitz Day Rocks ByVADlME. Staff The Dads (Brian Harvey- bass, vocals; Mark Lewis- guitar, vocals; David Ayres- guitar, backing vocals; Mike TublHlrums) are a 10-month old l:land from Albany, and they are hot. The Tri-City area has plenty of talent to offer, and the Dads are among· the finest. Opening for Robert Gordon, the band performed a spl'nky and marvelously raw mh of early R&B and 60's garage rock ra.k.a. the Jaml. The material was highly original (only 3 covers), and highly enjoyable. \I Will,\ \Man of the World,\ and \She's Breaking Down\ are particularly noteworthy. Their covers -- \Runaway Boys?' rStray Cats), \I Fought the Law\ (Bobby Fuller), and \Hippy Hippy, Shake\ Swinging Blue jeans) were done with plenty of energy, and were very, very ti:ght. In a club, these guys would be a perfect dance machine. Sam Didio entertained the crowd during the break. Alternating between Rodl'ley Dangerfield's and his own jokes, Sam was often quite funny. His material included a tribute to Union Security, Jeff Mitchel-Rich B:iegen, afld Skidmore women. Sam is very talented, and I hope he will lean more on his own jokes in the future. Robert Gordon and the Wildcats (Chris Sped ding - guitar, Tony Garainer - bass, and Howie Wyeth- drums) were the \Mystery Band,\ although anyone who cared knew weU in advance. Some of the local- rockabilly fans were on hand, enjoying the · authentic rockabilly of Robert Gordon. Although he does not write most of his songs, Robert's arrangements are very true to the \real\ rockabilly ofthe 50's, and in this sense, he is a purist. It's good to know that per- formers like Robert Gordon are keeping alive a fabulous music form that is r@ckabiUy. Although newcomers like the Straycats have revised rockabilly and achieved certain commercial success, Robert Gordon has been arourid for the last 10 years, and remained relatively unknown until just a couple of years ago. Finally, the fans are beginning to .pay- at- tention to a truly American form of music - rockabilly. 109 Canal Square, Broadway, Sch'dy. Phone: 374-4332 • PIZZA • Cheese Ex. Cheese Sausage Mushroom Pepperoni Green Peppers Meatballs Onions Anchovies Any Add Item Papa Cicco's :Deluxe WHITE PIZZA OUR SPECIALTY N.Y .S Style Sicillian Style (Oeepdish) a~· cut 12\ cut 24\ cut 4.25 5.00 8.50 5.25 6.00 10.00 5;25 6.00 1 0.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 10.00 5.25 6.00 };0;00 5.25 6.00 10.00 .75 1.00 1.50 9.25 10.95 15.00 THE SHRIMP · THE WHITE SCAMPI CLAM SAUCE - Try One Today- PIZZA PIZZA Pizza with no saut'E' Shrimp and Garlic Sprinkled with Oliv• Oil -•'th Olive Oil and P.izza with White Clam Sauce and Garlic with and Fre•h Garlic ~ with mounds of Mozzarella.cheeae Mozzarella cheeae ·Mozzarella cheese 6 75 Lr. 4.50 Lg. • 8cut 6;00 12 cut 6.75 24 cut 9.75 Sicillian 12 cut 5.25 Sicillian'h cut 7.50 24 cut 8. 7 5 24 cut 10.50 • IT ALlAN SANDWICHES • 1\ • .oatball Meatball Parmigiana Sausage Sa.usaae- P:armigiana S.uoare & Pepl\'r• En Plant Parmigiana 2.10 Steak 2.541 2.541 Salami &. Provalone 2;541 2.10 l'rosdotto & Provalone 2;95 2.541 Sandwiches with peppers zo· e•tra 2.35 Sandwicheo with Mushrooms 20\ extra 2,60 Sandwiches with Oninna 10' extra Italian Roasted p.,ppers 25' extra laid-Back Cabaret Calzone • SPECIAL TIES • Plain Sausage 2.25 2.65 Ham Prosciotto 2.65 2.95 ,---r(\J·IPfll\T- -rntTPON--1 ByVADIME. Staff May 20 Cabaret featured Beth Baumgarten, Felice Rolnick, Georgene Pitcher, and Steve Mark with Amy Edwards (with friends). The M.C. for the evening was Marcy Wilder. Marcy is a welcome sight. Of all the M.C.' s I have seen, she is one of the best. The opening monologue reflected on schlock TV programming, such as \Fam.ily Feud,\ and obnoxious commercials. Marcy's nwnber was not a bit tedious, but executed with refreshing precision and timing. Even the \Peter Pumpkineater\ joke came off nicely. Beth Baumgarten performed songs like \Kitty Star,\ \Say You Love Me,\ \Fragile and \Playing with a King of Hearts.\ Beth's voice has a rich, sensual quality, and I was completely charmed by the warmth she projected. Her guitar playing was delightfully amateurish, amateurism in its own right is extremely pleasing: Actually, Beth's version ot \Fragile\ was a lot better than the original anyway. Felice Rolnick (guitar, vocals) and Georgene Pitcher (vocals) were the second act in the early show. They played a very laid-back set consisting of \F eelin' Groovy,\ \If \Windy \Do You Know the Way to San Jose,\ \Day by Day,\ \Satin Doll,\ \Bad Bad Leroy Brown,\ and \Lovers' Cross.\ In addition, Georgene sang \The Conversation\ - a Joni Mitchell acapella. The songs were well done, although in some parts the guitar sounded a bit weak. However, Felice's guitar solo was quite good, which would suggest that the weakness comes from the fact that some songs just don't lend themselves to a simple guitar-voice arrangement. Nice, try, though. The last act - Steve Mark, Amy Edwards and friends (Ken Kaufman-drums, Ken Applebaum-guitar, Jim Etkin- slide guitar, and Ira Baron on bass) played \Merikesh Express,\ \Color or The Sun,\ live at Carnegie Hall JIM WOOD folk singer-pianist Friday. May 28 8:30pm Cabaret room $1.00 To the seniors: Free refreshments sponsored by Union College Christian Fellowship Life, life is a dream. · It's a conscious existence of a subconscious existence. It's a blur of memories, acquaintances, and experiences. Life is a smooth ocean rippled 6y complication and complexity. Life is anxiety of potential relations. . . _ It's not knowing,what could have been when 1t's the way 1t J.S, -w.z.z. c 1982, w.z.z. \Reason to Believe,\ \Let Me Turn Back To You,\ \John Barleycorn,\ \Dirty Work,'\' \Easy Now\ and \Let It Rain.'' Amy Edwards has a very pretty voice, but Steve Mark should know better than to try harmonizing with her. Nevertheless, I was very pleased with their performance. Arrangements were very loose, but things were kept under control. \Let It Rain\ and \Merikesh Express\ were my favorites in the set. PIZZA BREAD A ouperb Garlic Br<led baked with Mozzarella Cheese 1.50 1.2S I . ! Free Delivery I l on ·campus i I I 1 I L---------~--------~ WE DELIVER- Ph. 374-4332 .. ' l.f.C. SPRING PARTY!! Rescheduled! Relocated! Repriced! -Wednesday, June 3rd. 1 to 7 pm -Between West & Library Field -$ f .00 ticket for band (s) (to be announced) & all the beer you can drink. COME, UNWI·ND ON YOUR '-AST DAY OF CL'ASSES Sponsored by~the Union College Interfraternity Council itr Everything you always wanted in a tieer. . 1 And ess. - Cor .prese MoU!l and ,prev: ·eveni aboti origi Thur: until I Mom trem the,g pres' musi Com] sforn into: thirc musi chall theat astU:t Prof• the o

CONOORDIBNSIS, May S7, 198S Page 7 ~rts & Culture Company: An Evening Of Entertainment By MELISSA GOLD Company, a musical comedy .presented by the Union College Mountebanks, about the joys and pains of marriage, .previewed last Thursday ,evening before ail' audience of about fifty. The opening, ·originally scheduled for Thursday night was postponed until Friday. I personally feel that Mountebanks took on a tremendo~project. First of all, the group is not known for their present atio.n of full-scale musical comedies. Secondly, Company requires the tran- sformation ·Of college students into young married adults and thirdly. Stephen Sondheim's music and lyriC$ would prove challenging even to professional · theat11e. However, under the asttite direction of R.P.I. Arts Professor, Morris Kaufman and th.e obvious dedication of Irene Fassler and the rest of the cast and crew, Mounteban·ks' production of Company proves to be a night of fine en- tertainment, displaying quite an array of talent although it is not without its problems. Company is about marriage and the arguments for and against. Specifically, the action focuses around Robert, the only single one amongst his friends, who are forever trying to .fix him up and marry him off. They are constantly telling him of the joys of marriage while their own married lives are less than perfect. But Robert loves his crazy well-meaning friends and patiently listens to their advice and is always there for them to lend an ear or receive a proposit.ion, whatever the case may be. The action revolves around surpr-ise birthday parties annually thrown by his married friends for the still- singl'e Robert. As the play unfolds, each couple's own story is revealed. Each one•s story is quite unique. Sarah and Harry tell each other they love each other, yet can't seem to resist an op-- portunity to argue or contradict the other. Susan and Peter are the happiest divorced couple I've ever seen. Jenny and David are two adults who never really grew up. We meet them trying to figure out if they're stoned or not while .they smoke pot in their den. Amy and Paul are getting married and on their wedding day, Amy has a neurotic case of the preu marriage jitters. Joanne and Larry don't even try to hide their unhappy marriage. Robert is always around and involved in each couple's life - perhaps more than he'd like to be. He sees each one's problems and wonders why on earth they y A Musical Comedy To ,Be Performed May 27-29 I at 8:00 p.m. Tickets ore on a sole now at the Nott Memorial box office and Carnegie HaiL Tickets are $3.00 for students and faculty, I and $4.00 for the general public. are trying to get him into the same trap they are in. The action takes place on a round revolving stage upon which scaffolding is placed to create another level. The set is simple, well constructed and very impressively maneuvered throughaut the entire per• formance yet as a whole U seemed to inhibit if not restrict the performers. The cast had to fit themselves in, on and around the set and it seemed more times than not to be in their way, particularly in a dance solo perfarmed by Felicia Salvacione. The dance was nicely dane but it was staged along one well-trodden path. Better use of the set and its levels could ha:ve been used. The actors moved too carefully along the slippery floor and grated scaffolding and this tovk away from overall per- formances. The idea for the set is a good one. The play just seemed to call for a larger one or better use of the existing one. My overall complaint is that the performers did not seem relaxed or comfortable. I will, however, take into con- sideration that it was their first night before an audience. They should relax. They're good. Very good. There's a tremen- dous amount of talent in this production. The individual performances are wonderful, each and every one of them. Particularly notable were Stephen Gatta in the role of Robert. He was the most con- fident of the performers and portrayed the confused bachelor beautiftllly. He was chqrming, witty and eloquent in his manners. His vibratto voTce captivated the audience on his solos although he needed to project more. Diane Sadak and Bob Pavacic were very con- vincing as Sar-ah and Harry. Their relationship was the most established of all the couples. Robin Molella's performance as Amy, the jittery bride, was superb. We laughed with her nervousness as she spoke a mile a minute and sympathized with her indecision. The entire scene, from the church choir to Patty Winter's beautiful soprano voice leading the service, to Glen Krutoff's portrayal of the totally confused husband-to-be, was beautifully BE IN THE FOREFRONT OFTODAY'S TECHNOLOGY ASAN AIR FORCE ENGINEER done. Jennifer AUston was quite good as the .flighty stewardess and one of Robert's lovers, particularly during the Bar- celona nwnber where we were able to hear her dramatic singing voice. Anna Tucker's perfarmance as Larry's unhappy wife, Joanna was quite good. She was very strong in her portrayal of the condescending seductress. Particularly enjoyable were the so~s sung by separate groups. Paul Giradansky, Bob Pavacic and Mark Wasser· man's version of \Sorry- Grateful\ was very well dane as was Jodi Cohen, Patty Winter and Jennifer Paston's version of \You Could Drive A Person Crazy.'' The entire company numbers seemed a bit disjointed with the exception of \Side By Side,\ a very en- tertaining and enjoyable number. The solo performances were generally good, par- ticularly Anna Tucker's \The Ladies Who Lunch\ and Stephen Gatta's \Being Alive.\ Commendable perfonnances were also given by Jodi. Cohen who played one of Robert's lovers, a free spirited hippy type and by Patty Winters, a: down-home type who's leaving New York to marry. As I loa ked over my review, I noticed it seemed to focus upon specifics rather than the play as a who1e. Although the individual performances were very well done, the play in general seemed fragmented. Couples related well to themselves but hardly at all with each other. The cast ought to relax, look at and listen to each other. They should enjoy themselves and each otner. I believe they will accomplish this just fine however. There is much potential in this production. They have the direction, the talent, a fairly good orchestra and a fine and competent crew. They just need to be tighter and more together. All in all, however, Company offers a night of fine entertainment and fun for all. Get out this weekend and see it. Company will be presented May 27-29 at 8 p.m. in the Nott Memorial Theatre. Tickets are $3.00 for students and faculty, and $4.00 for the general public. Our engineering officers are planning and designing tomorrow's weapon systems today . . Many are seeing their ideas and concepts materialize. They have the finest, state-of- the-art equipment to test their theories. The working environment is conducive .to research. And Air Force experience is second to none. You can be part of this dynamic team if you have an engineering degree. Your first step will be Officer Training School. Help us shape our future as we belp you start yours. Be an engineering officer in the Air Force. Contact your Air Force recruiter at 518-472-4484. SSgt. Mike Bobrinitz. Call Collect.

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS~ May !7, 1982 Editorials Letters Hail Seniors As Commencement approaches rapidly, it is time to bid goodbye to the Class of 1982. Jumping on the bandwagon of congratulations, we sincerely wish the graduating seniors all the luck in the world. But who needs luck when you have a piece of par- chment from these hallowed halls. As you go forth into the real world, we would like to offer some words of wisdom from John Mason Brown. Take them with a grain of salt and some serious consideration. \Part of the American myth is that people who are handed the skin of a dead . sheep at graduation time think that it will keep their minds alive forever.\ The true challenge has just begun. One last point must be made before the seniors become alumni. In all seriousness, if the school has given you but a brief rewarding moment, pay her back for her service in any way. As economic times get harder, it will become more difficult to provide quality education. Give of yourself to continue the tradition of excellence. Curriculum Vitae The candidates for the position of Dean of Students have been carefully screened and a decision is forthcoming in the near future. We certainly appreciate the meticulous care taken in the selection process. At this late time, we would like to state our qualifications necessary for a successful Dean of Students. Approachability. The Dean of Students is the most visible member of the Administration and subsequently a vital link in the communications network. An open, candid and approachable Dean will keep these channels clear, thus making the Administration more responsive to student needs. Bluntly, we need a few more receptive ears in the Administration. Understanding. The Dean of Students must be familiar with student problems on the ground level. Textbooks will not provide the examples. The Dean must understand student needs and work towards the satisfaction of these goals. Do not choose a person who gives lip service to student gripes while consistently siding against them in the clutch. Aggressiveness. The Dean of Students must aggressively pursue solutions to student problems and not hide behind a cloak of bureaucracy. If the candidate places the Student Handbook on a pedestal as untouchable and absolute, eliminate him or her. Certain problems do not fall under codification and regulations become outdated. Flexibility is needed to deal with such occasions. Dedication. The Dean of Students must give of him or herself beyond the call of du~y. That extra effort to see someone about urgent business without an appointment will make the difference. Without a special kind of dedication, the Dean will become another Administrator shuffling paper and not students. Perhaps we are setting- our goals a little too high. But the qualifications of the screened candidates seem to be of high enough calibre to expect such a selection. Many qualities have not been stated. We assume that all of those being considered have the desire to improve on the position and better relations between the students and the Ad- ministration. Gardener Wanted One short criticism before we hit the beaches for the summer. We are now sprucing up the grounds so that the campus is presentable for Com- mencement. Why can't we keep everything looking so nice all year round? It is a disgrace to see lawns uncut, patches of weeds amidst dirt fields and dead plants in flower beds. Even Jackson's Gardens needs a complete overhaul. One cannot expect undergraduates to have pride in their school when it is a shambles from post- orientation to p.re-graduation. Properly kept grounds would 8.\So aid our recruiting efforts. - Students would be more encouraged to do their part Acting Editors-in-Chief Editors-at.: Large Managing Editor News Editors Features Editor Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors A.J. Brodsky, Dianne Pavacic Paul Grossman, Rachel Mandel Julianne Abelmari Marcy Burstiner, Doug Landon Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox:, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards Copy Editor D.C. Owens National News Editor Cindy J. Tenner Women's Sports Editor Kathy Bentley Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Assistant Sports Editor Rick Sapir Photo Editors Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Photography Consultant Richard A. Sher Cartoonist David Neiblwn Staff Norman Birnbach, Mitchell Ches~, Thomas Ching, Paul Choquette, Jodi Cohen, VadimE., Tim Emswiler, David Fitzgerald, Donna Getson, Emily Haft, Paul Kurker, Betsy Modest,. Peter Mohr, Debra M()ses, Jennifer Paston, Gayle Rosenfeld, Eric Ruben, Martin Sands, Michael Sharp, LindaSher, Jared Squires, Judie Steinhardt, A.A. Terhune, Bob VanVoris, Susan Wayne, RobertJ. Wiesenberg, S b . . Muffy A valle u scr1pttons E. Wesley Harris III, Chris Eshelman Photo Staff Keith Dean, Janet Guiliano, Mary Martin, Pam Meyers, Norman Pflaster, Lisa Stern CONC~D~~~SIS i:S p;ubli~he~. every 1 nurstl~y .J;lY the stud~tlt_ body of Un~on ,Cpllege,, Carnegie Hall, Schen~tatly,· New Y~ 12308;. Publlcatlons Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Boxi 388, Stdney, New York. 13838, (607) 563'-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United \. To de New M Unl been Austr Rupel disclc was r after lack assw: impo photo City: Wh befot Ame1 Mar:k did E and 1 such and edito migh the I some Re begir fall, print pull-~ new will even what take New emU: the t (witl \All Prin Th the stab Anb: over of L for c that will the hop• the~ new Tl Coli ove1 it di IDOl son: sorr. thin fror mm S1 Ori~ the witl

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, May 27, 1982 Editorials Letters Hail Seniors As Commencement approaches rapidly, it is time to bid goodbye to the Class of 1982. Jumping on the bandwagon of congratulations, we sincerely wish the graduating seniors all the luck in the world. But who needs luck when you have a piece of par- rhment from these hallowed halls. As you go forth into the real world, we would like to offer some words of wisdom from John Mason Brown. Take them with a grain of salt and some serious consideration. \Part of the American myth is that people who are handed the skin of a dead sheep at graduation time think that it will keep their minds alive forever.\ The true challenge has just begun. One last point must be made before the seniors become alumni. In all seriousness, if the school has given you but a brief rewarding moment, pay her back for her service in any way. As economic times get harder, it will become more difficult to provide quality education. Give of yourself to continue the tradition of excellence. Curriculum Vitae The candidates for the position of Dean of Students have been carefully screened and a decision is forthcoming in the near future. We certainly appreciate the meticulous care taken in the selection process. At this late time, we would like to state our qualifications necessary for a successful Dean of Students. Approachability. ThP Dt>an of Students is the most visible member of the Administration and ::>ubsequently a vital link in the communications network. An open, candid and approachable Dean will keep these channels clear, thus making the Administration mon\ responsive to student needs. Bluntly, we need a few more receptive ears in the Administration. Understanding. The Dean of Students must be familiar with student problems on the ground level. Textbooks will not provide the examples. The Dean must understand student needs and work towards the satisfaction of these goals. Do not choose a person who gives lip service to student gripes while t.:onsistently siding against them in the clutch. Aggressiveness. The Dean of Students must aggressively pursue solutions to student problems and not hide behind a cloak of bureaucracy. If the candidate places the Student Handbook on a pedestal as untouchable and absolute, eliminate him or her. Certain problems do not fall under codification and regulations become outdated. Flexibility is needed to deal with such occasions. Dedication. The Dean of Students must give of him or herself beyond the call of duty. That extra effort to see someone about urgent business without an appointment will make the difference. Without a special kind of dedication, the Dean will become another Administrator shuffling paper and not students. Perhaps we are setting our goals a little too high. But the qualifications of the screened candidates seem to be of high enough calibre to expect such a selection. Many qualities have not been stated. We assume that all of those being considered have the desire to improve on the position and better relations between the students and the Ad- ministration. ~ ...... · L~ttcfs ...... · Party Policy Clarified To the Editors: There seems to be some confusion regarding the College's party policy. We would like to clarify the situation. The intention of the . policy is to ensure the safety and security of our·students as well as maintaining a planned approach to sponsoring events. Therefore, we require all organizations, including Greeks in privately owned houses, to notify the Safety and Security Office, the Dean of Students Office and the Central Scheduling Office three (3) days in advance of the party. In the case where several organizations hold .parties on the same evening, the Security Office. may determine that additional staff ls necessary. The organizati<ms will share the · cost of the additional staffing requirements. The procedure to follow is: 1) Obtain and complete a Facilites Use Form from the . Central Scheduling Office in the Administration Building. 2) Obtain signatures from the appropriate · administraUv,e offices as outlined in the Facilities Use Form. 3) Return the completed Facilities Use Form to Central Scheduling three (3) days in advance of the event. For major events, the use of some facilities (e.g.; Alumni Gym) requires at least two weeks advance notice. This policy is not meant to dampen the enthusiasm for parties or to make unreasonable bureaucratic demands. However, the safety and off the top ten charts but it is just as difficult to perform a well known composition_ skillfully and to the audience's satisfaction when being com· pared to nationally known artists as it is to present one's own work. Tbe reviewer gravely underestimated the talents of these five fine musicians and the tlm.e put forth by all involved to prepare the six songs presented. If perf()rmers and·or audience seemed less than lively at the late. showing, perhaps it was because this group did not get on stage until past 12:30 a.m. We were tired! Rather than degrading these fantastic performers, we should be thanking them for allowing us to listen to some of our fav<trites live rather than on the radio. Thanks Guys! You were terrific and we hope to see you and hear you on stage again S(){)tl. Sincerely, Valerie Gutterman Jennifer Shaw and other fans Administration· Praised To the Editors: F'irst, I would like to echo Mike Newman's praises for the quick response of the ad- ministration in the matter of finding the Photo Club some new d::1rkroom quarters. However,! would like to offet a caation to all concel.'ned; in the form of an ac~ount of a different darkroom situation in which similar promises were made by the administration. · ·security of the campus com· munity is best ensured with proper planning and guidelines. Thank you for your cooperation. · Michael Andolina Assistant Dean of Students Christopher Chadwick Admin. Sargeant, Security Performers lauded To the Campus Community: Acting Editors-in-Chief Editors-at-Large Managing Editor News Editors Features Editor The intentions of this letter are not to criticize anybody, but rather to enlighten the Union College Community to the talent and superb performance of the group that performed at last week's Cabaret. Arts & Culture Editors Campus Page Editors Copy Editor National News Editor Women's Sports Editor Sports Editors On Thursday night, May 13, 1982, Jodi Cohen and company performed at Cabaret. First, it should be noted that all the Assistant Sports Editor Photo Editors Photography Consultant Cartoonist Staff In October, 1978! l spoke to (former) Dean Kellett and to Dick Mills from Maintenance regarding the fact · that the Union Book·Concordiensis darkroom on the top floor of Carnegie had r.usty water which stained prints, faulty wiring Which posed a fire hazard, and a tntal lack of ventilation often making it uncomfortable to work in there. The response I received was almost as en- thusiastic as the one which Mike Newman has just received. The work was to be completed over Christmas vacation that year. But Maintenance dido 't have the time or the money. According to Dean Kellett; he couldn't get the money from the Vice President for Finance and Administration - you guessed it · - John Hauser (the very same John Hauser who is now making promises to the Photo Club). So the job was postponed until spring or summer vacation ... In early January,l980, -more than a year after initial promises were made ..... the school received a notice from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) · informing them that the levels of certain fumes in the· darkroom air were hazardous and must be corrected. The school had 30 days Within which to comply, before OSHA would begin to levy fines of up to $500 for every day the situation remained unsafe. Within one week of receipt of the letter,. funds and time were mysteriously found to begin construction of a whole new darkroom next door to the old one. The darkroom was com· pleted a few months later and is now quite nice. My point is · this: I was promised action many times, but I never got anything more than a verbal promise· which A.J. Brodsky. Dianne Pavacic Paul Grossman, Rachel Mandel Julianne Abelman Marcy Burstiner, Doug Landon Judi Lee Chervenak Bob Fox, Roberta Rubinstein Maria Manfredonia Charis Richards D.C. Owens Cindy J. Tenner Kathy Bentley Drew Hurley, Rob Norton Rick Sapir Jane Cavalier, Linda Wallen Gardener Wanted musicians have performed at · previous Cabaret&.,,and that the backup group for Jodi was composed of Union College students Who belong to SUC\ Richard A. Sher David Neiblwn Norman Birnbach, Mitchell Chess, Thomas Ching, Paul Choquette, Jodi Cohen, Vadim E., Tim Emswiler, David Fitzgerald, Donna Getson, Emily Haft, Paul Kurker, Betsy Modest, Peter Mohr, Debra Moses, Jellllifer Paston, Gayle Rosenfeld, Eric Ruben, Martin Sands, MichaelS harp, Linda Sher, Jared Squires, Judie Steinhardt, A.A. Terhune, cessful professional bands. One short criticism before we hit the beaches for These musicians; Jim Warde, the summer. We are now sprucing up the grounds Mike Zanta, Mark Zanta, and so that the campus is presentable for Com- Melissa Gold, did a great ser\ 1 1 k · vice to both Jodi and the mencement. Why can't we keep everything 00 mg .audience by agreeing to ac· . 80 nice all year roW1d\ It is a disgrace to see lawns company her for the night. The uncut, patches of weeds amidst dirt fields and dead review appearing in the May 2& plants in nower bed!:j. Even Jackson's Gardens Concordiensis suggested that needs a complete overhaul. this ~·no .. name'' group lacked · One cannot expect undergraduates to have pride . originalit.y and talent- quite an in their school when lt is a shambles from post- · untrue statement. 1 k t Originality encompasses not orientation to pre-graduation. Proper Y ep only original words and music, • grounds would a~so aid our recruiting efforts. but also style - whiCh they had Students would be more encouraged to do their part lots of! Maybe the songs were· · 1f ·the· CQ'Uege· se-t· the• e-xample·r· · •\ ' 7 • .•••••• ,~,- •••••• ·'· '· '·' ~ .·: ,..,,~ ... ., ••• •• • :··. ·•·• •• • ~. •·· ··• • • Bob Van Voris, Susan Wayne, RobertJ. Wiesenberg, Subscriptions Photo Staff Muffy A valle E. Wesley Harris III, Chris Eshelman Keith Dean, Janet Guiliano, M.ary Martin, Pam Meyers, Norman Pflaster, Lisa Stern . C'ONC()Jl.DIENSIS i<S p,ublished every 1 nursday by the stud_errt body of Un!on .Cpllege .. Carnegie Hall, Schen~ta~y, New Yoo:~ . 1230!1; PublicatiOns Office: Susquehanna PublicatiOns, Inc., BoX' · 338, Sidney, New York, 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the . Schenectady Post Office as third class matter. Subscription rate: . 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United ptates. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), artd utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). - Tod - (jJ c: :;t ., Ill .... w :t: (jJ ., >- .0 .e 0 .r:. . ; 0. I Nell' I M Un been Aust1 Rupe disd wasJ after lack assw imp< photc City Wl befo Arne Marl did I and such and editc migl the · SOm< RE begi fall, prin pull· new will ever wha take NeVI emu the (wit \All I Prir TJ the stat A nil ove: ofl for. tha1 will the hop the ne~ T Col ove it d mo son son thh fro: mu s Ori the wit

OONOORD11!1N818. Mau B't, 198i Page 9 COII1IQeqtary ,; . Letters ,; Editorials Pentagon's Plans Threatened By JACK ANDERSON and JOE SPEAR WASHINGTON~The U.S. Navy has gone into action over the Falkland Islands crisis, but fortunately the effort is con- fined to some furious lobbying on Capitol Hill. The admirals from the Pentagon a,re desperately trying to repair the damage done to their multibillion-dollar aircraft- carrier building pregram by the sinking .of the British destroyer Sheffield by the Argentines. The Navy has ambitious plans on the drawing board to build three new carriers at a cost of $3.6 billion each. Now the slnking of the Sheffield by a relatively simple but reliable missile from an Argentine plane has given critics ammunition to question the wisdom of con· structing the new carriers. 'The detractors argued that if the Sheffield could be sunk so easily by Argentina's less-than- sophisticated air force, the proposed U.S. carriers would just as likely be sitting ducks to any major war of the future. The Navy immediately hit the legislative alarrn beH at the Pentagon and dispatched an assault team of high-ranking officials to work on influential members of Congress. At secret briefings, they were armed with graphs and charts to demon- strate that what happened to the Sheffield could never happen to one of their super-carriers. Tile U.S. efficials contend that the British task force that sailed to the South Atlantic wasn't prepared for modern sea warfare. As one supporter of the five-year, $96 billion ship- construction program centered on the carriers put it: ''Why was the Sheffield hit? Because the Brits lacked the ,essential ingredients. They didn't have the air cover needed. It weuld never have happened to us.\ STUDENT FORUM AGEN.DA The premise is that the super- carriers would provide their ' own air shield against enemy attackers. Meeting is Monday at 9:30pm 1. Ratify M irfutes 2. ,Committee Reports 3. BLAS' Budget Penalty 4. Constit-utional Amendment --Panhellenic Representative ?? But a retired admiral with long experience in naval strategy contradicts this claim, pointing out that smaller ships actually stand a better chance of survival than bigger ones do. In his opinion, the carriers would be prime targets for guided missiles. Critics also wonder whether there is any sense in building big aircraft carriers if their planes will have to spend much of their time protecting fheir own ship. They charge that this would scuttle .any Navy role as an attack force able to inflict damage on an enemy and would result in the carriers operating only to keep themselves afloat. Meanwhile, a more im- mediate problem stemming from the Falklands war is being pondered by President Reagan: ·.Balance of Terror By NORMANBIRNBACH Coltunnist-at-large I was born enough years after World War II so that when my seventh grade history class debated whether it was right of President Truman to use the \Little Boy\ and the \Big Boy\ atomic bombs to end the war, I said the action was justified. That was before I saw the pictures of . the after-effects. Now, I don't know if I can an- swer the same way. Yes, using the bombs helped bring the war to an end, but did the ends justify the means? Was the annihilation of 150,00() people, innocent civilians, worth it? Truman ·said he went to sleep the night of August 6, 1945, with a clear conscience; with that decision, Truman initiated the Atomic Era. America was the world power after World War II. There was no doubt about that, especially after the deployment of. the nuclear armaments. There is an irony in all that, in t~e development of the atomic bomb at Los Alamos. To get it started, Max Planck called upon Albert Einstein to write a letter to President Roosevelt. With someone with the prestige of Einstein backing up the program, Roosevelt went ahead with it, and placed J. R. Oppenheimer in control of the project. The irony is that after getting the project started, Einstein was aghast at what an atomic bomb could do. Even though · Oppenheimer was known as the man responsible for the atomic bomb, when he saw what destructive power his bomb had, he quoted the Hindu god Vishnu: \I am become death,. the destroyer of worlds.'' He and other leading physicists became opposed to the usage of the bomb. They urged that Truman get rid of all of our nuclear weapons. But by then, it was too late; Russia already had the bomb. That is when the problem of having nuclear weapons began. Before Russia got the bomb, there was no need for the U.S. to worry - for any country to worry, with the exception of Russia. With the Cold War, Russia became our main enemy. And Russia had the bomb. To stop Russia from using their arsenal, we developed further the policy of Balance of Power. The concept of Balance of Power has. been around since the time of the First Vienna Congress, which was respon- sible for redividing up Europe after Napoleon's defeat. Now, however, the idea has been refined. Balance of Power, according to Holt, Rinehart, Winston and John Spanier's Games Nations Play, is the policy of protecting ''the security of each state, not the preservation of peace.\ \Power it says, \is the best antidote for power.\ And that is fhe problem. Both countries have arsenals that can reputedly kill the worlds's population 55 times over. That goes beyond security, that goes · beyond comprehension; it is staggering. So many can be killed, yet Reagan wants even more money to go to defense. And that brings up a question: Where does it end? There is a slogan that is used by pro- disarmament groups - ''End the Arms Race, Not the Human Race.\ It is almost as though Balance of Power has been developed even further; it has become Balance of Terror. And I for one, am terrified. SEE CAMP UNION SECTION To what extent should the United States become em- broiled in the conflict? At a secret White House strategy session, Reagan was asked to consider how far he's willing to go in helping the British if the simmering war goes on for any length of time. He made it emphatically clear that the United States would offer supplies for the British fleet, but not a single American fighting man. No troops, no pilots, not even advisers or observers will enter the battle zone, was his edict. The Thatcher government has refrained from requesting any help that would involve U.S. military forces. But experts note the British fleet has only enough supplies for a 90-day siege in the remote islands. lf the bristling crisis goes on much longer than that, l.on!Jon would probably have to lean in- creasingly on U.S. aid. The British hierarchy has been significantly more cir- cumspect about keeping the United States in a neutral corner than many ad- ministration officials in Washington. Some Whitehall authorities believe Secretary of State Alexander Haig was over hasty in siding with the British in the dispute when his mediation attempts failed. They favored keeping the United States as an active peacemaker rather than relying on the ineffectual United Nations machinery. Back at the Pentagon, a crisis-management team was ·assembled and placed on around-the-clock 12~hour shifts, ready to supply the royal fleet with ammunition, spare parts and any other needs. But the British requested nothing ex- cept fuel and the crisis crew was quietly disbanded. All the United States has provided thus far has been fuel and intelligence which were Commentary: unofficially available even while Washington maintained a neutral stance in the early weeks of the dispute. Two spy satellites are taking photographs of the area, but there's a hitch: Their cameras are Wlable to penetrate tile heavy cloud cover over tile Falklands at this time of year. Other American satellites can intercept Argentine com- munications, which is more helpful, but not essential. HEADLINES AND FOOT- NOTE.S: President Reagan pledged to cut out the Depart~ ment of Energy. But that hasn't stopped the agency from going on a spending spree while it can. One hundred Energy Depart- · ment employees just traveled to Kansas City for a three-day \training\ conference that C()St the taxpayers $100 a day per person for expenses alone. .... Our lawmakers on Capitol Hill have this funny way of exempting themselves from the laws they pass for the rest of 11S. For example, sexual and racial discrimination is prohibited in private employment. But it is rampant among the staffs of congressman. For example, the senators have refused to recognize a union of Senate restaurant workers. The union has asked the International Labor Organization to help get recognition. - President Reagan wants to spen!J billions of taxpayers' dollars on civil defense in case of a nuclear war. One major problem is how to get food to Americans tucked away in bomb shelters.· Would you believe that even in a disaster, the red tape never stops. The government has issued guidelines on how to get more food out when the supply runs out: Survivors must write the regional food distribution office - within 30 days, of course. Copyright, 1982, United Feature Syndicate, Inc. Give of Yourself By PAUL GROSSMAN The Beach Boys song states, \Be true to your school.\ In a place like Union, such a statement holds a lot of meanjng because the value of a place like Union rests in the way· her people feel about her. She does her part, from her physical beauty to her almost tangible intellect. She gives of herself as much as she can, and only the· most insensitive prevent her from gaining ac- cess to the bottom of their hearts. In the case of Union, however, it is not enough to worship from afar. It is a relationship that has to be worked at. She offered a theater, and I worked until sunrise. She offered a rink, and I cheered (and skated a little, too). She offered a newspaper, and I committed myself as I have t·arely done in my life. I guess the point is to give of yourself, and you get back more. My association with Concordien.sis allowed me to work with a group of very d'edicated students. Each and every week, a lot of time would be given to the school paper because they cared. By working with such students, I grew a pair of rose colored glasses that have stayed with me until now. I doubt that whenever I t·eturn to or think of Union, the glasses will be too far out of reach. It is important thougb, to be able to find fault as well. To criticize constructively is im· port ant to an institution if it is to. continue to be able to progress. Through work, skill, luck, but mostly I hope, through caring, I was given a soap box from ·which to broadcast my opinions. I respected the privilege, and deeply regret that my actions were not as clear to others as they were to me. I hope and believe that what I did wiD be respected, regardless of opinion regarding right and wrong. I can say sincerely that what I did was in the best interests of the students and ultimately, of the school. There are of course, many more subtle ways to have an effect on the college. Whether it be a commitment to athletics or the arts, the important thing is to make the commitment. Learning is, I believe, a selfish undertaking, unlike the feeling that can come from being part of a winning team or from being of service to the school in any one of a number of ways. This commentary, I know, will be shrugged off by many as merely a sentimental senior's last hurrah, but if it can swav some, even a little, into giving more of themselves to the - school, then the effort bas l>een worthwhile. Love Union; she's great. She'll also give a l<>t back.

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, May !1, 198B ~·······¥···¥······¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥····¥············ ..,.. . i' ~ COM:E -ONE!! COME AL:L!! fo;;i~;~~~~:~bia~n~~~;=_g~~~ f ~ Spnng Fling w1ll matertahze ~ ! T·O· CAM· · ··p· U·N··1·0·N . ~~n~:~::~~~~~~~.=d~~;~n~s~.-~ \l' · •· . · · Dav1d Johansen, Mag1c and ~ .M . · · • · · His Reggae All-Stars, and. ....., \\l' Academic Warning. his \1\ ~ 1· .,.8211· eclectic mix of music should ·i' ....., • . • appeal to most every taste. In ~ \l' . · 0 • addition to the music, food, \1\ ~ beer and fun will be available ic: \l' throughout the day. Camp -tc Union'82will be a grand f.ina.le -i\ .,il\( FR·1·· o· AY N'IG.HT .. · to this year's efforts by the ....., \\P' . · · • · , , • · · · ·. . , : Social and Conce\rt Com- ~ .J.t mittees. ·If by some chan.ce the i'C \l\ weather betrays us, the bands ....., .. Library P'laza. 1. 1:30 pm-1:30 am FREE BEER can be enjoyed in Achilles .,... -+c: Rink. i' iet The Rocky Horror Picture Show \.:~~d s~~·~o.~~~m~::: t merman and Rich Tanen- l;laum, has sponsored major ~ ....., UNION I.D.'s ARE NEEDED to get wristbands for beer. events each term. First term's __._. ~ Fall Fling. started things off. ~ ....., · Secornd term there was Winter iC :t SAT·u. R·DA: Y .. •. Carnival '82, and earlier this .....,. ~ term a rollerskating ex- \1\ _.., travaganza succeeded in ~ ~ C U • B b persu(lding many to blow off a -r\ • amp RIOD ar ecue . sunny Thursday afternoon. So, ~ ~ what we're getting at is for _....., ~ 2 OQ 6 QO h everyone to forget about ~ ..i, 1 : pm- : · pm at West Beac academiatorashortwhieand _....., \t to enjoy one of the best days of ]; \\' Bring your meal cards or bring cash. UNION I.D.'s ARE Union's social calendar! \\\ t NEEDED to get wristbands for FREE BEER and PUNCH t i' Music provided by the Concert Committee iC il 2:30 pm David · -+c i' 12:0(} pm Academic Warning Johansen ~ ~ . ~ t 1 :oo pm Magi~. & The Reggae All-Stars 4:30pm Ramones ! ····~···~·····~··~~··~·····~··~····~~···¥·····¥~ Camp Union_ Special Thursday and Friday Carnegie Hall 12:00-4:00 Painters Hats $1.00 Get them while they last! . . tJttiOtl Cafii.P price list: T -shirts · $3.00 Hats - $1.00 Hot dogs • $.25 Hamburgers - $.25 aH the beer, punch, salad, watermelon & chips - free! .. CAMP UNION TICKET . .. =· DISTRIBUTION INFORMATION In the event of rain on May 29, the' Camp . Union concert featuring: The Ramones Magic & The Rea·aa·e D .d J h . All-Stars av1 o ansen Academic Warning Will be moved to Achilles Rink. No one will be admitted without a ticket. TWO per I.D. in advance Limit ONE per I.D. on the day of the show Tickets are free. Available at the box office in Carnegie Thursday, May 27, 9 & 11 -

OONOORDIENSISJ May !?', 198! . Page 11 I --~ ·~~ The Ramones--Johnny, Joey, Marky and DeeDee You MUST bring your Union I.D.'s for FREE BEER & PUNCH!! Special thanks to the Concert Committee, Miller Beer, Best of Wishes _:::~ to the . :. - ~ · ·~ ~ [/ Graduates of 1982. and lorraine Marra David Johansen will be appearing this Saturday at 2:30 p.m. Ticket sales for Senior Fling 1982 are now in progress. Tickets for the Lake George Boa·t Cruise and Thatcher Park Picnic are rapidly selling .for $6.00, while those .for the picnic alone cost $3.00. Buy your tickets now at the box office in Carnegie Hall. Come cruise on the Lake George Ticonderoga Wednesday, June 9th. Boarding time is 7:30 tor the two-hour excursion that begins at 8:00. Admission to the boat ride also includes a free drink at the cash bar. Music will be provided by WRUC. After the cruise, stroll to the Town House and take advantage of the drink specials. All <!rinks with Well's gin vodka, and whiskey will cost$1.00; draft beer will cost $.50. After a night on the town, relax and enjoy a scenic Thatcher Park picnic from 12 noon to. 7 p.m. Thursday, June lOth. Beer, soda, and munchies will be provided. While you listen to the sounds of the live band, you can play volleyball or softball or just vegetate!! [b~lli@. ~ @l?QgD§@ ~ Jllne 9 -The TICoNDEROGA boo.rd-s a_+ 7:30 p M , - dr-ink S~ecia.ls a_+ The Townehcu.se followin 3 CV~lb®LP [p€J[f'~ ~ Thurs J June l 0 -l2io7l'M - Beer, Soda., Mu..nchies provide~ - Live 13and VB®llil~~0 g $ 6 for cruise AN\D Trocner \'Pork $ 3 for Tha.cher- fa_rl< ON L I $2 foy 'BUS Tra.1'1S'f'OY\to.:non to and from Thacner \Pa.rk Bus transportation to and from Thatcher Park is now avai I able for a fee of $2.00. The Senior Fling Committee urges all those who are planning on taking the bus to purchase tickets by next Tuesday, JlJne 1st or we will be forced to cancel it. Remember, seniors, this is your last opportunity to get together before graduation. There are only 450 tickets for the boat cruise and sales are now open to the entire campus. Don't miss the boat!

Page 12 CONCORDIE.NSIS, Mau 17. 1982 \ '.;\ ·~~~~00 ,( ' . .. \ \,.o-\ \ _jD · \\' 1 r'\. -.,' • EFL-well it's been 13 years- year we are going to have not a grim, but a great floor! No breezes or sleazes, just us! I can't wait! Ouieuieuieeee! love, R-Cat Ge·n!eral Nottices For Sale: Royal Correctlble Typewriter. l yr. old-originally $264.00. Price: $199. Call Jean on 6112. and they've been great. The sununer should be fun. I'm glad we're in all this together. Remember we need frosting- two orange cakes won't de. I bet they were nude. U>ve Ya-CES Sue & Jane: You've been fantastic roomates. May that loft NEVER fall! ! Love, \I\ LOST: Outside Carnegie Thursday, May 20, a Minolta pocket instamatic camera. Camera is black with a black case. If you found it, at least do me the favor of dropping the film in my mailbox-the pic- tures are irreplaceable! Thanks. Steve Mark, .Sox 2174. GNeyou are my buddy~you're lfa!ntastic. Thanks for being you. GGOOKOK-This one really is from me to you. You're so cute!!! (not to mention gullible). You know I like you a lot. Go on now and laugh. You stood me up Sunday, where were you?! Love, The lW Lost: Gold, Ladies' Bulova wristwatch. ApproXimately two weeks ago. Reward offered. Call Ellen at 37~11. Student Recital for guitar, voice, French horn, piano; Wednesday, May 26 at 7:30p.m. To be held in Arts Building, Room 202. Works included by Bach, Beethoven, Bartok, Girtastera, Chopin, Debussy, Mozart, Haydn and others. The_ public is invited to attend. Volunteers needed--The Financial Aid Office is in- vestigating scholarship search firms-are they legitimate, can they help? One firm has agreed to process, for free, applications for .five students (they usually charge $40). There is no cost to you, only possible benefits. If this company can do what it promises, we ni!lY unearth a scholarship for you! We are very interested in volunteers who receive no college aid. Contact Ellen Frishberg at x6123. Private room and bath in campus home for summer, free in return for housesitting. Call Mrs. Huntley, 374-1495. Anyone who wants a mailbox kept open this summer or wants mail forwarded to an address other than the address which appears in the Student Direc- tory should sign up. See Mrs. Cureau at the Residence Life Office. Thank you. FOR SALE: A 4.8 cubic foot refrigerator; good condition, $90. Call Janet, 6476. Women on Wheels! Thursday, May 27 at 7 p.m. Peter Wool will present a basic car mechanics workshop behind Carnegie Hall. (sponsored by the Women's Network). FOR SALE: Used Centrex by Pioneer; Cassette-stereo-re- cording system with am-fm stereo and automatic turntable. In great condition. For more information contact Lori at 6808 or write Box 2050. Want to sell one pair of Technics 3-way SB-k40 speakers with 11 inch woofer and circuit breaker. Excellent condition. Barely used. Asking $175-pr. ContAct Gary W. at 382-9582. There will be a meeting of students interested in going to Graduate School in biology or related areas in Room S301 at 4:30 p.m. on Tuesday, June 1. Procedures and strategies for applying will be discussed. Feeding the animals sounds like fun. I hope you aren't em~ barrassed. Congratswyou won our eont est. · S & K, DB's are the best- power to V club-the year's been great-thanks for putting up with my constant infatuations. I love and ru visit next year. love-- c Dear Union: Thanks for four . INCREDIBLE years! !-Eileen TO my fellow alternates(?!)- You've all helped me get through this mess and I thank you mucbly. It's always nice to have someone there. Alpha Lamtx\.!;l Kappa Tau forever! Dr. J--You better start working on a cure for corrup- tion. It's going to be a great summer-Which one??? Dad, I've had a great fresh- man year. Thanks a lot. Love Mom P .S. I hope you find the black underwear, you and the clams looked great! Mik Newdboy-your such a brown-nose. why not call all teachers to thank them for the hell of it. To Ugly, Happy Anniver- sary!! We've survived two years, I wonder how many more wetlllast-how does '10 sound to you'? I love you! ! M..sQUARED P .S. One more month til D- dayt! To Housewife, Wencht Max, and Chester. Thanks for all the great memorieS! 1 Remember- Genuine Risk is No. 2 always!! ! Good Luck! ! Love, Fidz To the 4th floor cats-Next To the girl in 234, you got a trick card, and the choice was hard. I tho-ught you would nod so I sent in God. Although it was fun, you still owe me one.-a.s Hey Sexy .... you in the copper turtle ...... A car, a great lover~ and a lot of class,. Wbat more could I ask. ... don't answer that. Anyway, I chloves ya ...... K.R. R2 ...... This personal maybe the last 1 ever give youl you deserve hundreds, but even that would fall very short of all you mean to me •.. ! Ich lie be dich (english word order) moi ZORRO BOABY .... I miss you too!! ! ! ! ! ! ! Keep up the phone calls, but watch out for bugs ..... (have you tried drawing a hydrocarbon lately .. ?!) McGee To all those special people I've had the pleasure of knowing at Union: The Best Of Luck! ! - Eileen . Angie Baby- There is no love lGSt when my swelling itching b-rain hurts because your long arm is playing mental hopscotch with my inductive resonam:e. But praying hands will bring good weather on 5-29. · A friend Juliet- You'remy little rt)Ck 'n' roll~. . two more weeks and we'll kick out the jams. R-omeo Paul G-We're so proud of you. Glad to see that your hard work and will power paid off. Wish we could say the same about us. Congratulations.-Tbe Girls in the All Night Study Thurs., May 27, 9:00am JOE UVEGAS DANA SIBILLA & THERESA SHANK MIKE ZANTA & MEGAN CUMMINGS· SAXTON Don't Miss the LAST CABARET of the TermU Dear Pug, Trev and Meg are really psyched for a great swruner! I want to thank you for the greatest year of my life, and tell you just how much you mean to me (I don't think you can fit it in one paper). I love you twany mules worth! EWP To three future \butter- bars\ Randy, Tim, and Ed; Good luck on your graduation and commissioning where-ever you go and what--ever you do, always remember the dining-in motto: \To fly, to fight, and to never forget.\ -Eric To my friends, the Brothers of Kappa Sigma-I don't know if you'll ever understand just bow much-and why-1 miss you. Thanks for trying to make me feel wanted. G.P~ Who are the Ramones? Been skiing--sleeping lately? 304R p.s. I love you. -----------------~ Dear Jen. . Wbat~s up? Right? Catch any phish latelY? OK! Right. See ya' later. MB-Good luck to a graduate to be. When you are rich and famous remember us poor souls who are still in Schenectady. Next year will not be the same without you on the fli'St floor. Debbie Petudalumps, Tu gagne; je te laisserai tranquille. Bonnes vacances! Winldebelly Persephone: They can't keep us apart forever. I still love you, .and I always will. XOX Taffy Jeff (GUlLA) (SLIVS) (The Other G) _1;hanks for being you! Never a dllll moment with you around! I LOVE YOU! (Some things are just worth repeating) Hey, what can I say but \I'm lTAUAN\ Surpri$ you? Love G Romeo-It's worth a. quarter to me to tell you I love you. Juliet ' .~ \'· ).\' . \ , L , . : ! . .~\ ~·· I OQ Tile 1 GreckfroQt .. Oelta Chi Charity This afternoon is the Delta Chi Charity Beer Blast~Band Party, featuring the hot southern rock of Freefall. Tickets are $2.00 and include all the beer you can drink as well as prizes to be raffled off. In addition, there will be a ham- burger and hot dog barbeque at 25 cents apiece. The fun starts at 3 p.m. All proceeds will be donated to the American Cancer Society. · .4\\\\' ,, ~ ):\J~.,. :\. ; .- ~·~ ., I. . . ' ~ I • _A It's almost over © 19S2 Unoted Fea1ure Syndtcale. Inc TYPING SERVI:C.E 75c a page CHERYL 399-7614 All Campus PHOTO Today at 4:00 on Library Field Raindate: Friday, May 28 . ' I i I Page J .. _._ ' \''\' ,( ~ ·t l < ' To brott miss little Pu . tbis: ever. alwa La ever: little self! date1 To stud• myc' Thai grou The pari: To I n I've nice the To 1 SiSti Tl Supj do 1 KaJ we Bru E can nap the Rol .yea wit pot am sur E an rer reE I• PE ( Tl Li i 1 tt 'Yl !e; Sl tl ifi t n tl I j)J ... :~ .,

\'- ' \ ' ' . ' \ ' ·-· .. \ •' ' General Nottices For Sale: Royal CorrecUble Typewriter. 1 yr. old-originally $264.00. Price: $199. Call Jean on 6112. LOST: Outside Carnegie Thursday, May 20, a Minolta pocket instamatic camera. Camera is black with a black case. If vou found it, at least do me the ·favor of dropping the film in my mailbox-the pic- tures are irreplaceable! Thanks. Steve Mark, Box 2174. Lost: Gold, Ladies' Bulova wristwatch. Approximately two weeks ago. Reward offered. Call Ellen at 370-6611. Student Recital for guitar, voice, French horn, piano; Wednesday, May 26 at 7:30 p.m. To be held in Arts Building, Room 202. Works included by Bach, Beethoven, Bartok, Ginastera, Chopin. Debussy, Mozart. Haydn and others. The public is invited to attend. Volunteers needed--The Financial Aid Office is in- vestigating scholarship search firms-are they legitimate. C'an they help? One finn has agreed to process, for free, applications for five students !they usually charge $40). There is no cost to you, only possible benefits. If this company can do what it promises, we may unearth a scholarship for you! We are very interested in volunteers who receive no college aid. Contact Ellen Frishberg at x6123. Private room and bath in campus home for summer, free in return for housesitting. Call Mrs. Huntley, 374-1495. Anyone who wants a mailbox kept open this summer or wants mail forwarded to an address other than the address which appears in the Student Direc- tory should sign up. See Mrs. Cureau at the Residence Life Office. Thank you. FOR SALE: A 4.8 cubic foot refrigerator; good condition, $90. Call Janet, 6476. Women on Wheels! Thursday, Ma~· 27 at 7 p.m. Peter Wool will present a basic car mechanics workshop behind Carnegie HaU. tsponsored by the Women's Network). FOR SALE: Used Centrex by Pioneer; Casset te-ste reo-re- cording system with am-fm stereo and automatic turntable. In great condition. For more information contact U>ri at 6808 or write Box 2050. Want to sell one pair of Technics 3-way SB-k40 speakers with 11 inch woofer and circuit breaker. Excellent condition. Barely used. Asking $175-pr. Cont~ct Gary W. at 382-9582. There will b€ a meeting of students interested in going to Graduate School in biology or related areas in Room S301 at 4:30p.m. on Tuesday, June 1. Procedures and strategies for applying will be discussed. (I Ices ;Z ~ . ' • ,J-'. ,, '·~ ~ r .._ '~ • .. ., . ersoqa s; --~--~----------- EFL..-\1\IeU it's been 13 years- and they've been great, The su.mm.er should be fun. l'm glad we're irl all this together. Remember we need frosting- twoorange cakes won't do. I bet they were nude. Lwe Ya-CES Sue &: Jane: You've been · fantastic- roomates. May that loft NEVER fall!! Love, \I\ GN-you are my buddy-you're fantastic-. Thanks for being you. Feeding the animals sounds Uke fun. I }1ope you aren't em- barrassed. Congrats-you won our oont est . S & K, DB's are the best- power f() V club-the year's been great-thanks for putting up with my constant infatuations. I love you and l'll visitnext year. love-- c Dear l.Jnion: Thanks for four INCREDIBLE years! !•Eileen 1'0 m:y fellow alternates('?!)- You've · all helped me get through. this mess and I thank you muchly. It's always nice to have scmeone there. Alpha Lambd~ Kappa Tau forever! Dr. J--You better start working on a cure for corrup- tion. It's going to be a great summer-Which one??? Dad, I've had a great fresh- man year. Thanks a lot. Love Mom P .S. I hope you find the black underwear, you and the clams looked great! Mik Newdboy-your such a brown-11ose, why not call all teachers to tbank them for the hell of it. To \Ugly Happy Anniver· sary!l We've survived two years, l W(lnder .how many ml.lre we'll last-how does 70 sound to you'? I love you! ! M..sQUARED P.S. One more month til D- day!! To Housewife, Wench, Max, and Chester, Thanks for all the great memories! ! Remember- Genuine Risk is No.2 always! H GoodLuck!! Love , Fidz To the 4th floor cats-Next year we are going to have not a gTim, but a great floor! No breezes or sleazes, just us! I can't wait! Ouiellieuieeee! love, R·Cat GGQC..KOK-This one really is from me to you. You're so cute!!! (not to mention gullible). You know I like you a lot. Go on now and laugh. You stood me up Sunday, where were you? ! Love, The IW To the girl in 234, you got a tri(:k card, and the choice was hard. I thought you would nod so I sent in God. Although it was fun, you still owe me one . ......S.5 Hey Sexy .... you in the copper turtle ...... A car, a great lover, and a lot of class. What more could I ask .... don't answer that. Anyway, I chloves ya ...... K.R. ru ....... This personal maybe the last I ever give you, you deserve hundreds, but even that would fall very short of all you mean to me ... ! Ich lie be dich (english word ordEr} moi ZORRO BOABY ... .l misa you too!! ! ! ! ! ! ! Keep ijp the phone calls, but watch out for bugs ..... tllave you tried drawing a hydrocarbon lately .. ?! ) McGee To all those special poople I've had the pleasure of knowing at Union: The Best Of Luck! ! - Eileen . Angie Baby- There is no love lost when my swelling itching brain hurts beeause your long arm is playing mental hopscotch with my inductive resonance. But praying hands will bring good weather on 5--29. A friend Juliet- You're my little rod~; 'n • roll .• . two more weeks and we'll kick out the Jams. Romeo Paul G-We're so proud of you. Glad to see that your hard work and Will power paid off. Wish we could say the same about us. Congratulations.-'l'he Girls in the All Night Study Thurs •• May 27, 9:00am JOE U\IEGAS DANA SIBILLA & THERESA SHANK MIKE ZANTA & MEGAN CUMMINGS • SAXTON Don't Miss the LAST CABARE1' of the TermU Dear Pug, Trev and Meg are really psyched for a great summer! I want to thank you for the greatest year of my life, and tell you just how much you mean to me (I don't think you can fit it in one paper). I love you twany mules worth! EWP To three future \butter- bars\ Randy, Tim, and Ed; Good luck on your graduation and conunissioning where-ever you go and what-ever you do, always remember the dining·in motto: \To fly, to fight, and to never forget.\ -Eric To my friends, the Brotllers of Kappa Sigma-I don't know if you'll ever understand just how much-and why-! miss you. Thanks for trying to make me feel wanted. G.P., Who are the Ram<mes~ Been skifng .. sleeping lately? p.s. I love you. Dear Jen, Whafs up? Right? Catch any phish lately? OK! Right. see ya' later. 304R MB-Good luck to a graduate to be. When you are rich and famous remember us poor sou1s who are still in Schenectady. Next year will not be tbe same without you on the first floor. Debbie Petudalumps, Tu gagne; je te laisserai tranquille. Bonnes vacances! Winklebelly Persephone: They can't keep us apart forever. I still love you, and I always will. XOX Taffy Jeff (GUlLA) (SLIVS) (The Other G) Thanks for being you! Never a dull moment with you around! I LOVE YOU! (Some things are just worth repeating) Hey, what can I say but \I'm ITALIAN\ Surprise you? Love G Romeo-It's W()rth a quarter to me to tell you I love you. Juliet I OQ <f~e I GreekfroQt Delta Cb! Charity This afternoon is the Delta Chi Charity Beer Blast-Band Party, featuring the hot southern rock of Freefall. Tickets are $2.00 and include all the beer you can drink as well as prizes to be raffled off. In addition, there will be a ham- burger and hot dog barbeque at 25 cents apiece. The fun starts at 3 p,m. All proceeds will be donated to the American Cancer Society. It's almost over © 1952 Unoted Feature Synd•cate. Inc TYPING SERVICE 75c a page CHERYL 399-7614 All Campus PHOTO Today at 4:00 on Library Field Raindate: Friday~~ May 28 Page ' ., ' f ' '' ' To brott miss little Pu this: ever. alwa La ever: little selfl date: To studl myc' That grou The pari: To I TI I've nice the To 1 . sist~ Tl SUPJ do 1 Kat we Bat E can na~ the Rol yee wit pot am sur I an rer rel: PE ( 1 Co Ml Yc Gc . WE De TI T( Tc Tl L1 · Sl tl n t n tl

Page 13 CONOORDIENSIS, May !1, 198! e Ices J .. \·'- ' \ ,(). '.... ... ,, ~ ., '• L l ... ' .to .. '\ \--- - jD .., .-' ..-'\ '\ • To Carlos-my' fav\Orite b,ig brother-GOOD LUCK!!! I'll ' bed aU day. Beware the day Bo-1 wish I bad seen more of Char-What can I say? I love .._Rir:'il:~:t'j;~r;:cli1 ever to ride a surfboard! ! ! ! Much thankx from the No. 1 team!t · miss you. T4lke eare; love, your little sister. Pumpkin-Thanks for making this year the best and happiest ever. I love you now and . always. Pushka Larry-Best wishes in everything. ru miss your ·cute little face. Take care of your .. self! Love, the Communist dater. · To Biology faculty, staff, and students (comp. An. PhysilQgY, mycology. Plant Dystemics): Thanks for being such a great group l>f people to work with. The real world pales in com- parison.-Corlin- To Lenny & Frank- The two most wnnderful guys I've ever met! I'll never find nicer neighbors. Miss you over the swnmer,-Marcy To my Sigma Gamma Gamma sisters: Thanks for an your love and support this year. What would I do without you guys? No m()re Kappa club next year. What will wed() for amusernent?-Marcy Barton-· Even when yeu're obnoxiGus I can't help loving you. No more naps next year? Miss you over the s1.lrXlllW', Bart-Love, Sis Rob-It's been one hell of a year! Thanks for putting up with me. All I can say at this point is ISOMORPHISM! l Pooh and I will miss you over the summer.-Love. Marcy Racb! 'I'bis is truly the end of an era. MaybE tbey•n remember, but they'll never really know. We were the best. · Paul PETE- . CAPE COD OR BUS1.' LOVE SUITHEAD when someone ·. s FIRE! you this year. but we aill bad a Never a dull '\\\Wen good year. I can't wait for our cooking steaks. {Mpre than life show next year-If u~s a 5:00 am itself) The Furry: : One Loves wetll have t!} drink You screwdrivers for breakfast! ! Love you, Cbaris Hi. Gorgeous! Thanks for all the wonderful things you do fur · Lys. What can I say . . .. I'm me-taking care of me when lin . going to cry on the 13th .•. but I sick and teaching me chess and imtlW ifs not the end of our music and the night out with friendship •.. I'll be in Boston Kappa Sigma-and this as Gften as I can! I refuse to say beautiful watch! What more goodbye, but ru say goodbluek: could I ask for? Love, Moi I love you, Char Mon Cheri, Beginnings: KAV & TPL-Well, itjs been one Webster, Cubicles that take off, hell of a year. You've been the Scott's going to be away?! best neighbors. They can AGAD Tainted Love, Suitcase No. 65, the DB's of UC ragged 'cause W.W.R., Hours, Hours and we're banging tough. Have a more endlessly wonderfully No. 1 swnmer 'cause New endless. hours, and now our Jersey's got it. Love ya.-MAV dreams, Lake George, one week at Buffalo, 365 + 252 Fox. I love you Babe, right now and forever. -ME Ness-Can't let a week go by .• . Save those MEELAHs for us •• Have a great time at the tra.ck and I'll be up to visit you. Lcve, the Slow Driver MIKE-HAPPY 20th BIR- THDAY!! YOU'RE A GREAT FRIEND, YOU DOODY. LOVE ALWAYS 2 YOUR PAL JO So.me Little Princian, · pbiloS()phy for someone who knows the meaning of the word .. TAME\ It is always better to bave had a friend\ even when one is leaving. Friends always, TAke care of yourself! DearDABRA- Dear DABRA- whatever you do or whatever y\u d()n't do it witb a smile!! l little sisters always, Iove-all of us at PSK Phi Sig Seniors- Take the year out in P.SK. stylet ! ! How could we help but . love you guy8 to the limit. love ya always, your little sisters C- We've had our upa and we've had our downs but we're there. Have the best swnmer and you'll be hearing fr<1m me sooner than you think. Love YXA, Mar Raisan Bran and REAL milk! Looking forward to the fresh trout fried over an open fire at sunset. X whoelse- I think it's working and I like it alot-great to have you in the· family. L. JNN--Maybe next fall Eraserhead will come again. Until then ... Love Your favorite Celtics fan. Have you seen a Menebune today? Noel: lfs the last paper and I can't resist. I'll always treasure the personal you wrote me. Thanks muebo. (ar, ar); Anyway, Mr. C, thanks for making my year .cdifferent~'­ enjoyable , too. Good luck in whatever you do. Love, Me Maria, Claire, Joanne, Coralyn, Beth, Amy, Dina, To the Women of Delta Delta Marla and Deb-Congrats! Delta-Our first year in our new Youtve made it· . • ·., almost~ <house :was.amaz:ingl..J:lere!s to . L. W.O.· :fiMl yott and I'm gonna miss you so mueb t Thanks for everything- for saring this year witb me and for being there. Here's to the summer and forever. Stay elose! I..o:ve, Lys. -------------- MR. Q-Happy Birthday! We Love Ya!! -TheSLG'S Gail-Here's to nex.t year, . ro()mie. 1 get the desk on the right. Love ya always, Nancy JMH-Thanks for making me smile-even here in Schnectady. Loveya-NLL Randi-Thanks for all your help. You helped me survive Union for the first year. Good luck next year as a R.A. Debbie P.S. Happy Birthday!!! (a little early) Alan G-Thanks for all of your help this year. You are really a very nice person. Best of luck next year in Grad Schoo. Remember all of us who are still here. Debbie Mad, I can't wait 'til spring term ... 1983!! Here's to the SUMMER. I'll be there, I'll be there-Mar Menehune~:~-A good time was bad by all, all day long. Mahalo nUi loa!!!!! 3rd floor Bitchwomen, it just WGn't be the same withotlt you. Great luek! I will miss you .. : 2nd floor Bronner Bitch. Linda Z....Forget those weirdos-everyone knows the truth good luck with your great job and with school next year we wontt forget you.-Di, Lynne, Marty, and the other money fiends Josh 1. Perhaps you should get more truthful friends to ten you things-or at least friends wno have an idea of what they are talking - ... about and don~t make it up in their drugged otlt minds \ Debbie . assume one was to get her and so spread a Mat~ws~:D•nt~oa. ~·..;;.f'drd\. . shmng., carb,lg\ an4.,stiU, 'bEt¥Jg , ll* . THE BEST OF EVERYTHING TO: Pete, Joo, John, Larry and Tommy. We'll miss you (believe it or not)! LOVE~ your WENCHES. To D: ·· ' . ,, .. Bum to be· wild and ''THE TRDf>lE'\fon· l! ·l.JQU~R. TTT~I!< .. , ··~·~ ·' ,. · · a..~Vu~., ·; ·· ::: __ _ . · • \ · ~omthli'd (S.lJ,J.) Joel Baby and T Baby-I'm glad I got to kn.'{}w you guys a litt1e batter,.la~~ in the .t~ 1 though it may be. Maybe tiext 'year w•· ·call .·start a ~ttle tearlier.,Bte! P.S. Mara me fai'3 'suer!!! ~ar Donnat Climb bight· clinib· f!an: .Your aim the skyt.your g!)aLtbe start You can make anything happen- . -you can go anywhere you want .. -just make sure you tt·avel happy! . . .. love yo~ .ever-~o'\Jlll~ pal (for 2 out of 3 yearsru ·· ' · \'~ · ·· ·• +··-.\. ·•·•··• ''\·: ···::Jaekt\····~ ... wan-Well yoa ~1~w i~~tt · · you take a hint? Oh wen-t love you anyways. Thanks for a great year. Looking fo~eward to those sttrtnn~r ntu•H · ·· .. >: · · P.S~ $ttsie ~nt:J$·h~r watmd i:~ards. · · Annie-it took :rtle ttn:ee Yfat'S .. but here it finally is-a personal fr6m me to you. Thanks . for 'being o1te Jlelluva roomie!! Iu,, M.C. . . · ··· there. rn always remember. --------- Debbie S.-g()od luck in the ~ture and with George-L SLG's-Housing may split us up, but nothing can ever separate us. LoveYa!l! -Nance Hi Carin! We miss you and it will be nice having you ar~>und again next year. We enjoyed those intense watermelons. Say hello to Kirby and keep smiling! Love, us Grape-ifs been fun. Pll miss you. Does this mean no more pillow fights or rag-time fun. If it wasn't for hats ... Good luck and remember to put your antennae up on your mic. -A fellow bitch. Sager-Maybe next fall we'll be able to let our guards down a little and have fun again. Good luck with all the madness. By the way, I never did get my postcard. To tbe Sisters of Delta Gamma, Yon are defmitely the wildest and warmest women at Union. Thmtk you for always making me feel so welcome. I will never forget you . . . Forever your G.D.I., Thea To The Mad Pruter, I'm so glad I needed a dic- tionary to read Emerson. I love you so. The prutes aren't even an that bad when they're yours. Look out Suny Brook . : .. The Little Monkey Teri-my stomach doesn't hurt anymore, but I almost wish it did. Lori- I like blue! Karen-NJ hasn't necessarily deserved its repu.ation. rn miss you~ kid. Love to all,. Anne Sue-Unfuckingbelievable-- We made it through another year!! Can you believe it~s been three years!? For all my complaining, looking back I have mostly food memories. Tbanks for being the best .roommate a . eould ever ask going ~·· Roberta-Have fun next tenn! ur· · 'J.t't . .....,-.;..,. · · . t t t ,._,,e,.,,,\\u~~s ya~.. • . . He nuf fo syad evif dna skeew ereht tsuj? , D.

Page 13 CONOORDlENSlS, May !i, 198! e Ices er .. ······.S··, .. ··.-·.··0-' .. · .. ·.-. ·. : -; - - . . . ' ~. ·-. -·. . - .- . . . To Carlos-my' favorite b.ig brother-GOOD LUCK! ! ! I'll miss you. Take care, love, ycur little sister. bed all day. Beware the day when someone screams FIRE! Never a dull moment-even cooking steaks. (M()re than life itself) The FW'ry One Loves You Bo-1 wish I had seen more of you this year, but we still had a good year. I can't wait for our show next year-If it's a 5:00am we'll have to drink screwdrivers for breakfast! ! Love you, Charts Cbar-What can I say? I love '-Rrt:~ei~ti:;tw-:;;an ever to ride a surfboard!!!! Mu.ch tllankx from the No. 1 team!! Pumpkin-Thanks for making this year the best and happiest ever. I love you now and always. Pushka Larry .. ·Best wishes in everything. I'll miss your 'cllte little face. Take care of your· self! Love, the Communist dater. To Biology facility, staff, and students (comp. An. Physilogy, mycology, Plant Dystemics): Thanks for being such a great group of ()EOple to work with. The real world pales in com· parison. -Cor lin- To Lenny & Frank- The two most wonderful g11ys I've ever met! I'll never find nicer neighbors. Miss you over the summer,-Marcy To mY Sigma Ganuna Gamma sisters: Thanks for all your love and support this year. What would I do without you guys? No more Kappa club next year. What wiU we do for amusement?-Marcy Barton- Even when you're obnoxious I can't help loving you. No more naps next year? Miss you over the summer, Bart-Love, Sis Rob-It's been one hell flf a year! Thanks fnr putting up with me, All I can say at this point is ISOMORPHISM! ! Pooh and I will miss you over the summer.-Low, Marcy Raeh: This is truly the end nf an era. Maybe they'll remember, but they'll never really know. We were the best. Paul PETE- · CAPE COD OR BUST LOVE SWTHEAD Maria, Claire, Joanne, Coralyn, Beth, Amy, Dina, Marla and Deb~·Congrats! Ynu've made it . . . almost. Good luck in the REAL world- we love you and we'll miss you. Delta love. THE BEST OF EVERYTIUNG TO: Pete, Joe, John, Larry and Tommy. We'll miss you (believe it or not)! LOVE, your WENCHES. . To 2t3s: Born to be wild and \THE TRIPLE\ forever!!! LIQUOR, LUDES, AND LOVE. -one third (S.B.J.) Hi, Gorgeous! Thanks for aU the wonderful things you do for me-taking care of me when I'm sick and teaching me chess and music and the night out with Kappa Sigma-and this beautiful watch! What more could I ask for? lAve, Moi Mon Cheri, Beginnings: Webster, Cubicles that take off, Scott's going to be away?! Tainted Love, Suitcase No. 65, W.W.R., Hours, Hours and more endlessly wonderfully endless hours, and now our dreams, LakeGeorge, one week at Buffalo, 365 + 252 Fox. I love you Babe, right now and forever. -ME Ness-Can't let a week go by .. . Save those MEELAHs for us. • Have a great time at the track and I'll he up to visit you. Love, the Slow Driver MIKE~-HAPPY 20th BIR· TliDA Y!! YOU'RE A GREAT FRIEND. YOU DOODY. LOVE ALWAYS, YOUR PAL JO Some Little Princian . philosophy for someone who knows the meaning of the word \TAME\ It is always better to hav~ had a friend\ even wtwn one is leaving. Friends always, TAke care of yourself! DearDABRA .. D~ear DABRA- whatever you d() or whatever you don •t do it with a smile! ! ! little sisters always. love-aU of us at PSK Phi Sig Seniors- Take the year out in P.SK. style!!! How could we help but love you guys til the limit, love ya always, your little sisters To the Women of Delta Delta Delta-Our first year in our new house was amazing! Here's to many. many more. Good luck on finals and hav~ a great summer. Much Delta love, 10.0 Dtear Donna. Climb high. climb far: Your aim the sky, your goal the star! You can make anything happen- ~you can go anywhere you want- ~just make sure you travel happy! love your ever lovin' pal (f()r 2 out of 3 years) Jacki Wall-Well you blew it-can•t you take a hint? Oh well- I love you anyways. Thanks for a grellt year. Looking foreward to those .swnmer nights! ! P .S. Susie sends her warmest regards. , Lys, Wbat can I say . . .. I'm going to cry on the 13th ... but I know it's nGt the end of our friendship •.. I'll be in Boston as often as I can! I refuse to say goodbye. but I'll say goodbluck. I love you, Char KAV & TPL-Wen, it's been one hell of a year. You've been the best neighbors. They can AGAD the DB's of UC ragged 'cause we're hanging tough. Have a No. 1 summer 'cause New Jersey's got it. Love ya.-MAV C- We've had our ups and we've had our downs but we're there. }lave the best summer and you'll be hearing from me sooner than you think. Love YXA, Mar RaisanBran and REAL milk! Looking forward to the fresh trout fried over an open fire at sunset. X whoelse- I think it's working and I like it alot-great to have you in the family. L. JNN-·Maybe next fall Eraserhead will come again. Until then ... Love Your favorite Celtics fan. Have you seen a Menehune today? Noel: It's the last paper and I can•t resist. I'll always treasure the personal you wrnte me. Thanks mucho. (ar, ar}. Anyway, Mr. C, thanks for making my year \differentu- enjoyable , too. Good luck in whatever you do. Love, Me Cathy: Best of luck in the future as a Union «:;allege graduate. Don't work too hard in North Carolina, and when the weather isntt ~rfect remember the nice Schnectady winters. Debbie Mateus: Thank you . . . ford sharing, caring and still being there. I'll always remember. Rabbit: Thank you for the last four months. You made it all worthwhile and wonderful. Here's to the end, and a beginning~ With all my love, your best friend. MF'B--Good luck after you and I'm gonna miss you so much! Thanks for everything- for saring this year with me and for being there. Here•s to the summer and forever. Stay close! Love, Lys. MR. Q-Happy Birthday! We Love Yal! -TheSLG'S Gail-Here's to next year, . roomie. I get the desk on the right. Love ya always, Nancy JMH- Thanks for making me smile-even here in Schnectady. Loveya-NLL Randi-Tbanks for all your help. You helped me survive Union for the first year. Good luck next year as a R.A. Debbie P.S. Happy Birthday!!! (a little early) Alan G- Thanks for all of your help this year. You are .really a very nice person. Best of luck next year !rt Grad Schoo. Remember all of us who are still here. Debbie Mad, I can't wait 'til spring term . . . 1983! ! Here's to the SUMMER. I'll be there., I'll be there-Mar Menehunes-A good time was had by all. aU day long. Mabal() nui Iva!!!!! 3rd floor Bitchwomen, it just won't be the same without you. Great luck! I will miss you ... 2nd floor Bronner Bitch. Linda Z-·Forget those weirdos-everjtone knows the truth good luck with your great job and with school next year we wontt forget you.-Di, Lynne, Marty t and the other money fiends Josh 1. Perhaps you should get more truthful friends to tell you things-or at least friends who have an idea of what they are talking ·-about and don ~t make it up in their drugged out minds Judy R.··You sure are paranoid--your notebooks missing so of course you just assume it's been stolen-if your best friends a liar and thief you assume that some one was out to get her and so spread a concocted tale-maybe you need help Debbie s.-good luck in the future and with George-L GAD, I wlll always have fond memories of Union and all the good times we've had. See you on the Ponderosa! Remember. Who Loves Ya Baby! , zappa zappa do and like that. TheBigG Hang on Phi Delt, the hot mamas are coming! Mon Amour, Joel Baby and T Baby-rm glad I got to know you guys a little better. late in the term ·though it may be. Maybe nelrt 'year we can start a litt;e ·earlier. Bye.! P.S. Mara me fats ·suer!!! Charis and Sue- You assholes, thanks for once again pulling me through a great year at Union. I'll try to be over at 20 next year but you guys have to try tQO. To us! Love always, Bo Annie--it took me three years ~ but here it finally is-a personal from me to you. Thanks fo-r being one helluva roomie! ! luv, M.C. graduation! Please always keep in touch. Remember, you'll always be \MFBn! I'll never forget all. our great times together. I'll miss you next year. lhve. YFC Tu es formidable. Je t'aime. Je t'adore. 'l'o all SLG's-Thanx for uneamie making my 19th so special. Wherever we all land next year· We love you Eric, ·Oh yes we -remember 318 Nwill always be do. We love you Eric and we;U , Hi, Poppa Bear·wlet's ,hibernate! Your winged bear · when you get to stay The GO-Go's The Kinks Matt Cohen-Val Lenes The Ramones Who really stole the show? open!! I love you all forever. · be true. When we're not with Here's to '82·'83. Love--Noogie ·you, w.e're blue. Ob, Eric we love you1 JEL-You;re going to get it! Intoxi-Kate~ Ta, Tabbette, DJJ:1 etc. SL.G's-Housing may split us up, but nothing can ever separate us. Love Ya! !! -Nance Hi Carin! We miss you and it will be nice having you around · again next year. We enjoyed those intense watermelons. Say hello to Kirby and keep smiling! Love, us Grape-it's been fun. I'll miss you. Does this mean no more pillow fights or rag-time fun. If it wasn't for hats ... Good luck and remember to put your antennae up on your mic. -A fellow bitch. Sager-Maybe next fall we'll be able to let our guards down a little and have fun again. Good luck with all the madness. By the way, I never did get my postcard. To the Sisters of Delta Gamma, You are definitely the wildest and warmest women at Union. Thank you for always making me feel so welcome. I will never forget you . . . Forever your G.D.L, Thea To The Mad Pruter, rm so glad I needed a die~ tionary to read Emeroon. I love you so. The prutes aren't even aU that bad when they're yours. Look out Suny Brook • ~. • The Little Monkey Teri--my stomach doesn't hurt anymore, but I almost wish it did. Lori-I like blue! Karen-NJ hasn't necessarily deserved its repuation. I'll miss you, kid. Love to all,. Anne Sue-Unfuckingbelievable·- We made it through another year! ! Can you believe ie s been three years!? For all my complaining, looking back I have mostly fond memories. Thanks for being the best . roommate a girl could ever ask for. I can't believe we're going to be seniors! Love, Charis Roberta-Have fun next term! We'll miss ya!!! He nuf fo syad evif dna skeew ereht tsuj.? · D. Booth-I promise not to spread it around too much, but you really are a lot of fun sometimes. I'll miss you. Love, your Springtime Valentine. 4th floot.-We've got a whGle summerto get PSYCHED!! !!! ! Pookie, Piggie, Kahr, Berta, and CQrin: Thankx f{}r a Great • year. Puffie J.J.S.M. & G. (>rinks are on us . . • if you reveal yoursel;ves tomormw night ... 7:00 at the:i Pub ... BE THERE. BUT . . . :Be .prepared to answer the following .... \What language are the roots in?\ See ya-A&K Hey Lav..Glad l.tnet you four y-ears ago. Love,. I

.. Page 14 OONCORDIIiJNSlS, May !7, _198! Dorm -Telephones To Be Optional For Students New Visa Regs (CPS)~ Huge.- telephone rate hikes around the country are forcing some schools to cut off free donn telephone service to students, raise installation fees, and even get into the phone business themselves. Seventy percent phone rate increases, for example, have convinced Evergreen State College in Washington and the University of Washington J:o make dorm telephone ·service opetional to students who want to pay extra for it. cent phone rate hike. \We\\inay start to offer telephones as an option,.\ says how;ing director Newell Smith, though \students wbo didn't get a phone would .still be left paying for some of the built-in costs of the system.\ Louisiana State has started charging its students an e~ra $21.60 a semester for their phones whether they want them or not. Nevada students in its system. . Such savings have convinced Tennessee arid Oregon State to buy their own phone systems. Oregaon State st\idents used to pay $30 to have their phones turned on, and then had to wait a week,. says ho'USing head Ed Bryan. 1 CPS)-·Foreign students attending U.S. colleges and universities will be forced to return home for a minimwn of . two years after receiving their degrees, if :legislation currently in Congress passes this sum- mer. The little-noticed change in immigration laws is part of the proposed Immigration Refonn and Control Act now before two congressional subcommittees. One part of the act, Section 212, would require foreign nationals with student-type visas to return horne for a period of two years before they are eleigible to apply for forther visits to the U.S. But the proposed changes in Section 212 have .provoked a whirlwind of criticism from academia, special interest groups, and even high- technology and engineering industries. Under current law, foreign students may graduate and re- apply to stay in the U.S. for an indefinite period of time. In addition, students who get married or jobs while in this country get special con- sideration. But .. congressional sub- committee members have expressed concern that the foreign grads who remain in tWs country are taking jobs that would otherwise go to Americans. Besides, they say, the whole idea of foreign ex- change programs is for the students to return to their native countries and pass on the knowledge they gain in American universities. \But it's a very complex matter,\ warns John Wreichard, executive vice pt•esident of the National Association for Foreign Student Affairs. \Sure our primary value in the exchange program is that people acquire education and training and then take it home with them,\ Wreichard says. \But many of the students who get degrees need practice and training, and a chance to work and teach and do research. We've seen a lot of people do this so that they are much more effective when they go home.\ Wreichard says his association is \very surprised\ at the proposal, and notes· that ''it appeared on the bill without any awareness by the higher education community.'' Close to half of all foreign students get their degrees in areas such as engineering and computer science. Companies such as Proctor & Gamble and Exxon, joined by a number of engineering and electronics associations, are seeking \softening\ of the proposal to exclude foreign grads who want to stay here to do research or secure jobs. \We feel that it is extremely short-sighted to deny ourselves the benefit of foreign students working here,'' says Wreichard. \And beyond our immediate national needs in engineering and technology, the proposal could seriously interfere with scholarly activities.\ One-third of all foreign student service money now goes for paperwork, he says. \All we need are more complicated, time-consuming regulations.\ ACROSS 6 Curiam 1 Naut1cal term 7 Expel 6 Uncertamty 8 Rubber tree 11 Calder a 9 Exist 12 Sovereigns 10 Surg1ca1· saw 14 Competent 11 Social class 15 Demean 13 D1ets 17- Paso 16 Foundation 18 The sun 19 Li'l- 19 Make su1t- 20 Heath genus able 22 Eagle's nest 20-Siender finial 23 Couples Washington State University housing director Bill Bierbaum may be forced to do the same, he reports. Across the country, he .predicts more and more \students are going to have to go get their own telephones if they want them.\ The University of Wisconsin recently suffered a 15-20 per- CROSS WORD PUZZLE LSU associate housing director Morris Welch says proposed new phone rates there will increase the campus bill by $294,000 annually, \and those costs would be included in students' rent.\ Making phones optional can cost students even more. University of California- Berkeley junior Daniel Eldridge recently won a fight with Pacific Bell Telephone when he .found out the company eharged.students $10 more than non-students for getting their phones hooked up. \I came back every year, and there was the same phone on the same wall. I got the same phone number, but· somehow it cost them $33.16 to turn on the phone.\ Eldridge won his hearing before a regulatory agency, which told Pacific Bell to give $10 rebates to California dn With OSU's own .system, \now the phones just stay on the wall, and we can turn ,them <m in a day for only $15. Tenessee expects to \save $5 million over the next ten years'' from its new system, and will eventually pass some of the savings on to students, says UT's Jim Grubb. Otherwise, local rates will continue upward for the for- seeable future, explains Mountain Bell Telephone spokeswoman Cindy· Evans. \Long distance and other 'preiD.lum services' b.ave subsidized local rates for a. long time,\ she explains. With the impending break-up of AT&T, in which the regional phone companies will become separate firms, ''local service is going to have to shCJw a pr()fit.\ Long distance phone lines will remain the province of the restructured AT&T, wh.ile the regional firms will in- dependently provide local service. 21 Editor's abbr. 25 Cubic meter 22 Vituperation 26 Communion 23 English baby plate carriage 28 Thorough- FROM COLLEGE PRESS SERVICE PLO On Campus 24 Heart fares 26 Aches 29 Subject 27 Pecan. e.g. 30 Harbinger 28 Levantme 311s ill ketch 32 Gait 29 Possess1ve 33 Melodies pronoun 35 Narrow 31 Captivate 34 At th1s place 35 Fathers 36 Gold symbol 37 Before 38 Miss Drew 39 Girl's name 40 College deg. 41 Got up 42 Poker stake 43 Draw out 45 Experiences 47 Lavishes fondness on 48 Besmirch DOWN 1 Trellises 2 Formal dance 3 Devoured 4 Iron symbol 5 Calumn1ate openings 38 Great Lake 39 Pilaster 41 Perform 42 Peer Gynt's ·mother 44 Zeus's beloved 46 Part of \to be\ Answer on page 3 ( CPS)-After years of silence, Palestinian students on American campuses have over the last few weeks made themselv.es increa·singly visible, attributing their newly aggressive politicking to the escalation of tensions in the Middle East. The new visibility, moreover, has often put them into dangerous confrontations with other students. At the University of Texas, where pro-Israel students marched last month to mark Israel's Independence Day, several scuffles broke out between marchers when .about 30 Palestinians joined the event. At Harvard recently, law school Associate Dean James Vorenberg refused to give a sch~duled speech when he discovered a Palestinian Uberation Organization (PLO) official would· also speak at a law school conference. Over 150 students ultimately picketed the AVAILABLE IN STRIPES, SOLI.DS, AND TRIMS MEN'S MARTIN SANDS WOMEN'S $3(} $19 Phone (6423) ~ $18 conference, which was marred by bomb threats and threatening phone calls to conference organizers. And at Arizona State, two . Palestintan stu~nts narrowly escaped injury wh.en three gasoline bombs ex:ploded outside their apartment. One of the students also found his car covered with anti-PLO graffiti after the explosion. The confrontations have become increasingly common on U.S. campuses as conflicts between Israel and Palestinians living on the occupied West Bank have intensified, says Hatem Hussaini, director of the PLO' s Palestine Information Office in Washington, D.C. \The munber of Palestinian students, here, about 2,000, has remained the same for the last few years,\ Hussaini says. \But increasing attention by the press because of what's hap- pening in the occupied territories has made people more aware of our presence and beliefs.\ Indeed, r.nany ~f the campus conflicts revolve around demonstrations and speeches by the opposing groups. Palestinian students, along with their pro-Israel counterparts, have stepped up efforts to take their views to American students, and in U1e process clashes between the groups have also increased. When Hussaini spoke at Harvard recently, not only did the associate dean of the law school refuse to attefid, but several hundred students .picketed and campus security officers were kept on edge by bomb threats and crowd control problems. Hussaini sparks attention whenever he visits a:- campus, he says,. but insists he is out to ·speak \his views and not create friction. \I and other~ have spoken at colleges and many other places,\ Hussaini says. \We need to inform the American people about the Palestinians: their culture, their heritage, and their point of view. It is important for American students to li£ten.\ • Union' Laxmc chmen Unlori' FaD' 1. Er 2. Br 3. Ed In1 4:. Pe 5. Ju 6. To 7. H~ Mi B.Sb Wint1 1. Bfl 2.Jo

CONOORDIENSIS, Mau I?', 1981 Page11 75 'I • • • More Pictures Union's Jodi. Brenner returning a shot vs. Pace U. ~- Union's Joe Clinton broke both the single game and the career assist records this year. Garnet Ruggers finished at 6-1, their best record In years. Unlori's high scoring Holly Howard No. 1 singles, Dwight Moore Dutchmen Baseball MVP Mike Saccoclo Miller Athletes of the Week The following students were recipients (jf the Miller Athlete of the Week Award during the past year: Fall Term: 1. Eric Demarco-Football 2. Bruce Melena-Football 3. Ed Arnheiter-Men's Cross-Country Inge Stockman-Women's Cross Country 4:. Peter Stegeman-soccer ' 5. Julie Miller-Women's Tennis 6. Tod Fobare-Ice Hockey 7. Hans Bukow'::Soccer Mike Lewis-soccer 8. Steve Bodmer-Football Winter Term: 1. Bart Brooks-Ice Hockey 2. Joe Caruso-Ice Hockey Joe Wood-Basketball 3.·Cay Lynch-Women's Basketball 4. Lynwood Wade-Ihdoor Track 5. Dan O'Neil-Ice Hockey 6. Joe Clinton-Basketball 7. Gill Egan-Ice Hockey Sprtilg Term: 1. Sean Durhann-Lacrosse 2. Dan Stewart-Tennis 3. Mike Saccocio-Baseball 4. Tom Conway-Rugby Janice Glidden-Women's Track 5. Holly Howard-Women's Lacrosse Sports -Banquet Held The Union College Sports Banquet was held this past Friday, May 21st. The event, sponsored by Block U, honors Union College student-athletes. Thos.e athletes who lettered for four years in their sport received a beautiful watch for their time and dedication. Individual athletes were also recognized for out- standing contribution to their respective sport. They are: Men's Athletics: Football-Bruce Melena Soccer~e~rge Ftonnas X-Country-Dave Dellahunt Hockey-Tod Fobare Indoor Track-Lynwood Wade Basketball-John Jarosak Wrestling-Dennis Dombrowski Baseball-Mike Saccocio Lacrosse-John Mercer Golf-Jeff Peters Outdoor Track-Gary Wenner Swinuning-Chris Meyer Tennis-Richard Molot Women's Athletics: Cross Cowttry-Inge Stockmen Indoor, Outdoor Track-Janice Glidden Basketball-Julie Miller Volleyball-Brenda Hugick Field Hockey-Lisa Stern Softball-Kirsten Peterson Lacrosse-Holly Howard Tennis-Alissa Calabria

Page 16 \ \ \ OONCOBDIENSIS. May !.1, 1981! • , ' .... ./ . ' .. '·' . . ,' ~. • ;. • ' ' ~· • , ' • • t The Sports Year • ID Pictures ... the football <team's best season in ten years. The season incfi:ldeEI a bia win over tner~ fourth raRked Albany State. The Women~s Field Hockey Team did not fare as well as they would have liked, biJt are stiU. optimistic about .next year. ~- Support. Union Sports ·.~ · ..... ,.. ... , .. . ._ .. 0)· c ~ t: B ~ ~ I ·11 Led by high scoring Tod Fobare, the Unl011 College Ice HockeY team skated to their best record under fourth year coach Charlie Morrlson~s tenure. The Dutchmen lust .failed to· Both the men's and the women's cross country teams displayed fine efforts this year. The worr.ien's team won the N.Y.S. ~CAA Dlv. Ill Championship. make the playoffs_. . i J b. Ill •I: L. CIJ ' -l <I c: 4) > l:! en >- .0 ~ .s::. c.

Today Laundered at Union College 1982 Here Vol. CXI, No. 00 Stop The Presses!l New Dean Chosen: Monty Assumes Post ByPU A mere fifteen minutes before this issue's deadline, the Distordiensis editors received an urgent call from the President: a new Dean of Students had been chosen. Monty was elated when in- formed of the news. Consistent with his friendly and outgoing nature, Monty immediately made himSelf available for an on the spot Distordiensis in- terview. New Dean, Lord Mountbatten of Burma. At our request, Monty sat and discussed his fascinating life story. Monty was born Lord Mountbatten of Burma twenty- one years ago. Monty has always had leadership in his blood, dating back to Queen Victoria. Even in his early years, Monty never sat back and simply allowed things to happen. An unfortunate turn of events found the newly ap- pointed Dean facing a long sleep, but Monty, unlike some of his predecessors, refused to nap, even for a minute, and managed to escape. Next stop: ambitious about education. He chose Union because of the · school's strong commitment to the liberal arts. Monty has excelled in many of the humanities, easily handling such courses as Deviant Sociology, Social Psychology and, of course, Animal Behavior. Dean Monty does not have a family (he was neutered when he was seven months old), but his life revolves around the Union campus. Murdoch Buys Union Views By RIM Orientation Issue featuring an expose on the sex lives of each and every Orientation Advisor and Faculty Orientation Advisor. After that, the huge printing presses will be pere manently installed on the first floor of the Nott Memorial. It is expected that the venture will bring many new workers into the area, and the population of the college will increase by 1,000. The Housing people will have problems finding rooms for all of the newspaper people. As a compromise, Murdoch is offering to build the new dor- mitory for the College. Negotiations are still underway, and the outcome won't be known for another couple of weeks. Union College. Monty has always been Union Views has reportedly been taken over by famed Australian newspaper mogul, Rupert Murdoch, for an un- disclosed amount of cash. This was revealed barely two weeks after Union Views folded for lack ·of participation. It is assumed that Murdoch will be importing writers and photographers from New York City and Australia. When asked for his reaction before leaving for South America, Union Views editor Mark Klaman responded, \We did everything that we could, and now we join the ranks of such good papers as the Post and the London Times.\ Co- editor Ira Dorkin added that it might ultimately be better for the paper if it is infused with some new blood. Union Acquires N.Y. Region Although his background is a fascinating one, what Monty offers the school is his expertise itt dealing with campus mat- ters. He feels that student government has gone to the dogs and hopes that the newly elected student officials haven't bitten off more than they can chew. Monty feels very strongly about reforming the dog laws on no campus, citing an increas- ed safety that exists em campus when attack dogs are used to aid campus security. Responding on the con- troversial issue pf interpersonal aggression on campus, Monty feels that, \Sniffing is O.K., but anything more t:han that becomes a real problem. But for Reportedly, Murdoch wiU begin ·;he new operation next fall, when Union Views will print everyday, with a full color pull-out -·section, comics and a new feature, \Nott News,\ that will highlight the people and events that mak-e Union College what it is. The newspaper will take on a format similar to the NewYorkTimes, even trying to emulate the timeless motto in the upper left of the front page (with a slight modification) \All the News that is Nott fit to Print.\ There is speculation that once the Union Views venture is stable, Murdoch will bid for Anima, The Chronicle, and take over the press in the basement of Lamont House. When asked for a comment, Murdoch stated that he feels that such a move will consolidate his power over the press in the Northeast, and hopefully this move will lead to the eventual ownership of every newspaper in the country. The admiilistration of the College expressed it's concern over such an action, saying that it did not want the student tax money used to further someone's own interests, and if someone were to do such a thing, it whould be someone from our·· own campus com- munity. Starting with the first day of Orientation we can expect to see the first signs of the takeover, with a two-section full color By DOUG SILVERSTEIN The Union College Scheming and Priorities Committee an- nounced Tuesday the purchase by the College of what was termed \Upper New York.\ This region includes such cities as Rome, Ithaca, Syracuse and Buffalo. When questioned as to the purpose of such a tran- saction, Vice President Thomas D' Andrew reportedly said that Union has been striving to provide more adequate in- tramural facilities for our students an<.l that this may he the trick. The official tran- saction should be complete by September, 1982, with Union sending the negotiating rights of ex-hockey coach Ned Hardness to New York State. New York City Mayor and Gubernatorial candidate Ed Kroch com- mented, \I know we're losing a big chunk of the state but I personally don't give a ? ! +&34! . Most of my votes come from downstate New York and those hicks upstate are worthless anyhow. Besides, if this turns out to be a bad political move, redistricting is always a possibility.\ What exactly Union College will gain from this trade is really unclear. Intramural Director Tom Coldette added that this will not affect the way he runs the intramural program. He adamantly stated that he will continue to do anything in his power to keep the program running as inef- ficiently as possible without allowing either Smegma Chi or Cri Psi to lose any cham- pionships. Football coach Joe Worth commented that this would be a big boost for the whole school. He added that not since he recruited Dan Fouts for the football program has he been so excited. The obvious question does remain: Why doesn't Union plan to use this land mass to provide students with more adequate teaching and laboratory facilities? This shotild be of concern since part of the land, specifically the campus of Cornell University, will be used to build new dorms.- and house 20,000 more un- dergraduate students. The burden may be on a faculty accustomed to catering to a student body of only 2,200 students. President Moriss supposedly commented that Union has learned its lesson from the Ned Harkness era. He added that if Union must sacrifice . academics for an improved intramural program, then?!+& it! The expanded program and student body should provide the College with added revenue and an increased endowment source. Where this money will manifest itself is still un- decided. Vice President D' Andrew suggested that Union could use the money to expand cable television service to all members of the administration. He' added that it's high time the administration was given some entertainment to distract them from the wore important work to be done around here. President Moriss said that he and Mrs. Moriss had been planning a . trip to Hawaii, on business of course, and this money may very well pay for the plane tickets. On a final note, Union must continue to explore op- port unities such 'as this in order to provide the College com- munity with improved services and facilities. It's high .time we threw away all pragmatism in exchange for a more enjoyable and wasteful .future. President Moriss reportedly urged us to have fun. He added that we only live once and there's no reason to be hasty or conservative. There is little the entire college conununtty echoes the same sentiments. the most part, people's barks are worse than their bites.\ The parties on camptu:~ are another aspect of student life that Monty has kept a close watch on. \The use of alc()hol in moderation is tolerable, but students have got to learn how Continued on patce D.4 Union Hits Cellulite! By NEIL EISENSTADT Union College, in a move to strengthen its sagging en- dowment, has closed a deal with Soviet businessmen. In what was called the largest export transaction since the United States agreed to sell wheat to Russia, Union officials an- nounced today that they arranged to sell surplus cellulite to the Soviets, of which there is a bwnper crop this year. The price was not disclosed, but is believed to .be in excess of $24-lb. Experts in the field are in agreement that at least 30,000 pounds of the substance are presently stored in North, Richmond, West, Davidson, and For Dormitories. Looking into the future, Union is hoping that cellulite will be placed on the commodities market, as the College is believed to have the largest supply of the substance in the northeast. It is also thought that the sale of this commodity will serve to rapidly inflate Union's endowment, exceeding the $38 million goal set in the Campaign for Union. When asked his feelings about the unexpected \gold mine\ at Union, President Moriss reportedly replied that he was optimistic about the College's f11ture. Although cellulite .prices fluctuate wildly and often rub traders the wrong way as a speculative investment (tur- ning them red with fear), they have yet to show the shaky trends which they are thou.ght to be characterized by. Dean of Admissions Kenneth Nourse was .:thought to be ex- cited by the prospects of the cellulite sale. Such a com- modity is eXpected to open up new frontiers in admissions policy. Should the CtJllege ever run low on endowment, they will be able to increase the number of wom~.n accepted in order to compensate for the low supply of funds. Who knows, Union might one day be all female. After all, one must do what one must to survive.

'; I I . I Today Laun,dered at Union College 1982 Here Vol. CXI, No. 00 Stop The Presseslf New Dean Chosen: Monty Assumes Post By PLJ A mere fifteen minutes before this issue's deadline, the Distordiensis editors received an urgent call from the President: a new Dean of Students had been chosen. Monty was elated when in- formed of the news. Consistent with his friendly and outgoing nature, Monty immediately made himself available for an on the spot Distordiensis in- terview. New Dean, Lord Mountbatten of Burma. At our request, Monty sat and discussed his fascinating life story. Monty was born Lord Mountbatten of Burma twenty- one years ago. Monty has always had leadership in his blood, dating back to Queen Victeria. Even in his early years, Monty never sat back and simply allowed things to happen. An unfortunate turn of events found the newly ap- pointed Dean facing a long sleep, but Monty, unlike some of his predecessors, refused to nap, even for a minute, and managed to escape. Next stop: ambitious about education. He chose Union because of the school's strong commitment to the liberal arts. Monty has excelled in many of the humanities, easily handling such courses as Deviant Sociology, Social Psycholagy and, of course, Animal Behavior. Dean Monty does not have a family (he was neutered when he was seven months old), but his life revolves around the Union campus. Murdoch Buys Union Views By RIM Orientation Issue featuring an expose on the sex lives of each and every Orientation Advisor and Faculty Orientation Advisor. After that, the huge printing presses will be per- manently installed on the first floor of the Nott Memorial. It is expected that the venture will bring many new workers into the area, and the population of the college will increase by 1,000. The Housing people will have problems finding rooms for all of the newspaper people. As a compromise, Murdoch is offering to build the new dor- mitory for the College. Negotiations are still underway, and the outcome won't be known for another couple of weeks. Union College. Monty has always been Union Views has reportedly been taken over by famed Australian newspaper mogul, Rupert Murdoch, for an un- disclosed amount of cash. This was revealed barely two weeks after Union Views folded for lack of part1c1pation. It is assumed that Murdoch will be importing writers and photographers from New York City and Australia. When asked for his reaction before leaving for South America, Union Views editor Mark Klaman responded, \We did everything that we could, and now we join the ranks of such good papers as the Post and the London Times.\ Co- editor Ira Dorkin added that it might ultimately be better for the paper if it is infused with some new blood. Union Acquires N.Y. Region Although his background is a fascinating one, what M<Jnty offers the school is his expertise in_ dealing with campus mat- ters. He feels that student government bas gone to the dogs and hopes that the newly elected student officials haven't bitten off more than they can chew. Monty feels very strongly about reforming the dog laws on no campus, citing an increas- ed safety that exists on campus when attack dogs are used to aid campus security. Responding on the con- troversial issue of interpersonal aggression on campus, Monty feels that, \Sniffing is O.K., but anything more than that becomes a real problem. But for Reportedly, Murdoch will begin ,he new operation next fall, when Union Views will print everyday, with a full color pull-out ·section, comics and a new feature, \Nott News,\ that will highlight the people and events that make Union College what it is. The newspaper will take on a format similar to the New York Times, even trying to emulate the timeless motto in the upper left of the front page (with a slight modification) \All the News that is Nott fit to Print.\ There is speculation that once the Union Views venture is stable, Murdoch will bid for Anima, The Chronicle, and take over the press in the basement of Lamont House. When asked for a comment, Murdoch stated that he feels that such a move will consolidate his power over the press in the Northeast, and hopefully this move will lead to the eventual ownership of every newspaper in the country. The administration of the College expressed it's concern over such an action, saying that it did not want the student tax money used to further someone's own interests, and if someone were to do such a thing, it whould be someone from our own campus com- munity. Starting with the first day of Orientation we can expect to see the first signs of the takeover, with a two-section full color By DOUG SILVERSTEIN The Union College Scheming and Priorities Committee an- nounced Tuesday the purchase by the College of what was termed \Upper New York.\ This region includes such cities as Rome, Ithaca, Syracuse and Buffalo. When questioned as to the purpose of such a tran- saction, Vice President Thomas D' Andrew reportedly said that Union has been striving to provide more adequate in- tramural facilities for our students and that this may be the trick. The official tran- saction should be complete by September, 1982, with Union sending the negotiating rights of ex-hockey coach Ned Hardness to New York State. New York City Mayor and Gubernatorial candidate Ed Kroch com- mented, \I know we're losing a big chunk of the state but I personally don't give a ? ! +&%!. Most of my votes come from downstate New York and those hicks upstate are worthless anyhow. Besides, if this turns out to be a bad political move, redistricting is always a possibility.\ What exactly Union College will gain from this trade is really unclear. Intramura·l Director Tom Coldette added that this will not affect the way he runs the intramural program. He adamantly stated that he will continue to do anything in his power to keep the program running as inef- ficiently as possible without allowing either Smegma Chi or Cri Psi to lose any cham- pionships. Football coach Joe Worth commented that this would be a big boost for the whole school. He added that not since he recruited Dan Fouts for the football program has he been so excited. The obvious question does remain: Why doesn't Union plan to use this land mass to provide students with more adequate teaching and laboratory facilities? This should be of concern since part of the land, specifically the campus of Cornell University, will be used to build new dorms and house 20,000 more un- dergraduate students. The burden may be on a faculty accustomed to catering to a student body of only 2,200 students. President Moriss supposedly commented that Union has learned its lesson from the Ned Harkness era. He added that if Union must sacrifice . academics for an improved intramural program, then ? ! +& it! The expanded program and student body should provide the College with added revenue and an increased endowment source. Where this money will manifest itself is still un~ decided. Vice President D'Andrew suggested that Union could use the money to expand cable television service to all members of the administration. He added that it's high time the administration was given some entertainment to distract them from the more important work to be done around here. President Moriss said that he and Mrs. Moriss had been planning a trip to Hawaii, on business of course, and this money may very well pay for the plane tickets. On a final note, Union must continue to explore op- portunities such as this in order to provide the College com- munity with improved services and facilities. It's high time we threw away all pragmatism in exchange for a more enjoyable and wasteful future. President Moriss reportedly urged us to have fun. He added that we only live once and there's no reason to be hasty or conservative. There is little the entire college community echoes the same sentiments. the most part, people's barks are worse than their bites.\ The parties on campus are another aspect of student life that Monty has kept a close watch on. \The use of alcohol in moderation is tolerable, but students have got to learn how Continued on page D.4 Union Hits Cellulite! By NEIL EISENSTADT Union College, in a move to strengthen its sagging en- dowment, has closed a deal with Soviet businessmen. In what was called the largest export transaction since the United States agreed to sell wheat to Russia, Union officials an- nounced today that they arranged to sell surplus cellulite to the Soviets, of which there is a bumper crop this year. The price was not disclosed, but is believed to be in excess of $24-lb. Experts in tlle field are in agreement that at least 30,000 pounds of the substance are presently stored in North, Richmond, West, Davidson, and For Dormitories. Looking into the future, Union is hoping that cellulite will be placed on the commodities market, as the College is believed to have the largest supply of the substance in the northeast. It is also thought that the sale of this commodity will serve to rapidly inflate Union's endowment, exceeding the $38 million goal set in the Campaign for Union. When asked his feelings about the Wlexpected ''gold mine\ at Union, President Moriss reportedly replied that he was optimistic about the College's future. Although cellulite prices fluctuate wildly and often rub traders the wrong way as a speculative investment (tur- ning them red with fear), they have yet to show the shaky trends which they are thought to be characterized by. Dean of Admissions Kenneth Nourse was thought to be ex- cited by the prospects of the cellulite sale. Such a com- modity is expected to open up new frontiers in admissions policy. Should the College ever run low an endowment, they will be able to increase the number of women accepted in order to compensate for the low supply of funds. Who knows, Union might one day be all female. After all, one must do what one must to survive.

Page.B-2 Concordy Revamps ·concordiensis has altered its entire mode of operation this month, including hiring a secretary anr';buying a series of late model word processors. Diane Pavachick, one of the co- editors, commented that the newspaper wanted to be modernized in order to keep up with Union Views, especially since the takeover. Past editor- in-chief Paul Grossman agreed, saying that it was high time that the inherent wofth of the newspaper was recognized, and that it fulfilled it's ,potential. Included in the newspaper's budget for next year of $100,000 1s a fully paid staff, additional incentives for advertising, a weekly allowance for pizza on Tuesday nights, the full technical capabilities to print as many pages as possible, and a computer simulator for picture reproduction. The newspaper, as a result of its expansion, will be moving into the Nott Memorial utiliZing the first floor for its operation. The current staff is being trained in how to operate huge printing presses, and how to yell on the corners, \EXTRA! EXTRA!'' According to reliable sources, there was no problem in the approval for the budget, as long as the Finance Com- mittee and Student Forum understood that they would always receive favorable press. Brian Carrol and William \Chip\ Morris revealed to this Distordiensls reporter that they have, in fact, been engaged for the past six months and plan to wed sometime lhis summer. The announcement comes. Watson Award to Holms Senior Sherrie Holms was awarded, a Watson Fellowship today to do work in the .field of Japacus bloomingdalus. It is a rare breed of Union College student who dresses for classes like she is taking her cues straight from the New York Times fashion section. There is a tendency for this species to have a direct link-up with all of the major clothing stores in New York City. Ms. Helms will be attempting to study the method of com- munication, and attempt to adopt it for everyday use. It is of special interest to companies like the phone company who would pay millions to obtain the secret behind this com- munication marvel. Helms will begin her study in the fall, with the incoming freshman class. It is best, sh~ says, to get them when they first arrive from their native habitat. There is less of a likelihood of contamination from the environment. Helms is contemplating taking her studies down to the source, the wilds of L. Island, where the Japacus with little surprise to many on campus. One student, on hearing of the announcement, commented, \That's nice and I'm really happy for them, but to be perfectly honest, I thought th.at they were already bloomingdalus have their nesting area. This part of the study will take place after the Union segment is completed,. and results as to how to handle the species are presented to the administration. Tidmarch Leaves for Bigtime Political Science professor Charles Tidmarch reportedly announced today that he will leave his position at Union to go to Hollywood to make his for- tune. He has apparently been offered a contract by Motown Records after the father of a freshman, who is an executive of the company, saw him perform at a Cabaret with his group, \Charlie T and the Under grads.\ Tidmarch has- signed for a record amount of money .. that would make the likes of Reggie Jackson blush with envy. It is rumored that he will be the next Elvis Presley, at least to the world of academia. When asked to comment, Tidmarch replied that he has been waiting for this break for awhile. He sees it as a way to do research and expects to return in a couple of years to teach a course entitled \Politics and the married.\ Distordiensis would like to take this opportunity to wish the happy couple the best of luck and all happiness in their future. Decadence of the Music Industry.\ He will be leaving during the summer, and staying with Neil Sedaka for several weeks before cutting his own album. Nichols Asked to Pose in Buff It has been rumored that Byron Nichols, .professor of Political ~cience, has been made an offer by the editors ·Of Playgirl Magazine to do a centerfold for the upcoming August issue. The offer was made by a freshman's parent, who is an editory of Playgirl, after seeing several pictures of Nichols that have appeared in Concordiensls over the past couple of years. She stated that he had a certain charisma that the magazine was looking for. Nichols reportedly com~ men ted that he is flattered- by the offer, but cannot accept, although admitting that he would definitely give Burt Reynolds a run for his money if he were to do the centerfold. On the same topic of publishing offers, Nichols mentioned that he might do a layout in the Gentleman's Quarterly if he were asked. The magazine is still looking for suitable models ·for their August spread entitled, ''Political Scientists of the Northeast.\ Freshman Class 99 Percent Female This year's freshman Class is reportedly 99 percent female, according to statistics released by the Admissions Office today by an unknown source. Most of these students will be coming from the South and Midwest. When asked about these numbers, the source said, ''We were so concerned about the preponderance of males from New York, that we really tried to fill the gap. Unfortunately, we overcompensated.\ · This development has thrown the administration into a \tizzy\ as it must now find housing for these new students, and devise ways of keeping the current male population from going into fits of ecstasy. The males who are included in this class happen to be a couple of hockey players from Canada who fulfilled other requirements of the Admissions Committee. It is expected that the women's teams will do very well as a result. Morris To Live In Five Man Suite As an attempt to get more in touch with the student body, sources imply that President Morris will start next year as the fifth man in a suite in Davidson. His roommates will Nankin to Wed- Matt Nankin, s}lown here hugging his prospective, an- nounced earlier his engagement to the Film Committee's main projector. When asked about the problems of a mixed marriage, it was reported that Nankin said whether AC or DC, it doesn't matter which way you plug it in. He added that he goes by the adage, \If it feels good, do it.\ Nankin became popular when he started doing film an- nouncements before each movie. The crowd would abuse him, at which point he would run into the projection room to be comforted by his fiance. They met while \Superman\ was running. Nankin sup- posedly was dressed in a cape, and the projector just couldn't resist his physique. They became further acquainted during long runs of certain erotic movies. The wedding date has not been announced. Rumor has it that the ceremony will take place at Paramount Studios in California as that is where a great many of the bride's family resides. be two senior English- Philosophy majors (to give him someone to talk to when he is pulling an all-nighter), one junior engineer, and one fresh- man six-year-med. It is expected that the President will not be the one with the bed in the middle room, as he will be here all through the summer and sure to arrive in Davidson early enough to pick a good spot. When asked about his plans, President Morris ex- plained that the biggest problem he may have is when he will get a chance to See his wife. He has decided to see her only every three weeks or more in an attempt to imitate the life of a freshman who is separated from a high school girlfriend. When asked if the dormitory life would bother him, he reportedly answered that he would just plug in his Sony W alkman when he had to write a speech or a memo. As for the bathroom situation, he would prefer an all-male floor so that he didn't have to walk down to the other end of the hall to shower in the morning. As if tbis wasn't enough, the President will attempt to contract mononucleosis and at the same time finish Freshman Preceptorial and Chemistry 10 during winter term. He expects that this will cut into his ac- tivities as the College's representative, but that everyone will just have to un- derstand. It is unknown at this time whether or not the President will eat at West, partake in the three o'clock pizza orgies, play Trivia, or play intramural softball, but the chances are good if his intentions are any indication. We wish him all the luck in the world and hope to see him at the Alpha Delta Phi Halloween party! \\\\kt ·' .~1 . 1 ., So a . . ~ I I ~

Som~ne ought to tell maintenance that that Is a light--not I bUmp II · . Waiting for cards for the popular course \Rocks for Jocks\ t-t'r'%1· What does the cotangent of y have to do with the price o.f textbooks? Ohl Please, just one more for the record·? Rei ally? The Washington Post needs some help? There are still too many goddatnn books In this library. What do ~mean your roommate Is going to be back In 5 minutes?? · What do you mean you were once a little pregnant? This wallis part of WRUC can lean against It or not! Maybe lfllaok busy the photographer will go away.

Page 0·4: DISTORDIBNSIS, . Today Claims National Championship: Union Shocks No. 1 Clemson Union QB Roger Harris escapes pressure by Clemson defender on crucial Hall Mary pass that gave Dutchmen their comeback win and the national ~hamplonshlp. Student Forum Acts, The Student Forum met this week to decide upon several key issues affecting the campus. 1 First was the proposal con- cerning the construction of a soundproof, fully equipped Finance Committee audit torture chamber. The chamber would facilitate the extraction of accurate financial statements taken forcibly from activity heads. The construction would include a standard, mUlti-purpose Spanish Inquisition rack and a truth serum applicator. A decision was handed down concernmg the~ misap- propriation of Student Activity Funds for Camp Soviet Union. The C.U.S.S.R. Committee, in true Siberian fashion, was placed in a detention camp somewhere in eastern Scotia. It appears that funds were diverted to .subversive ternorist organizations operating in the Levant. The Forum finally agreed to rescind its newly created By- Laws. The By-Laws, modeled after the Constitution of the ruling Argentinian military junta, was found to be too restrictive for life at Union. The By-Laws allowed Forum en- forcement agencies to hold offenders as political prisoners and to inhumanly subject them to continuous Glee Club rehearsals. Student government officials threw their support behind the SAC .proposal caUing for the demolition of the Library to make way for a Display Case Emporium. Designed by I.M. Pei, the glassed-in structure could house \Cut and Paste\ projects and questions from \Biology of Sex.\ One ad- ministrator was rumored to say, \don't hold your breath.\ Completing its last official function of the year, the Forum voted unanimously to support the choice of Monty for Dean of Students. CLASS.OF'82 CLEARANCE SALE Dear Employers: As regular and preferred customers, you are invited to our: ---------YEARENDCLEARANCE~------­ Must make room for next year's class ~Below cost- -Marked down- • All models· -Used, too- Come view our full selection at The Career Center on June 12, 1982 See the students in a frenzy as they offer you their services at unheard of wages. Don't miss this gala event. UNION: Where educated products are few and far between. By NEIL EISENSTADT PASADENA, CALIF.-In the biggest- surprise in college football history, the Union College Dutchmen staged a come-from•behind 7-6 upset of the Clemson Tigers in yester- day's Rose Bowl Staying close throughout with the help of. an unbelievable defensive effort, Unior:~ ,struck for the winning touchdown on the final play of the game withQB Roger Harris firing a 100 yard bomb to run- ning back Bill Huttner. The \impossible play'' was termed the classic Hail Mary by ex- perts, and left the Clemson rutit standing stunned, not to mention the crowd which subsequently went into a frenzy in support of the underdog school, from Schenectady, N.Y. What made the play more unbelievable was that Union's offense never penetrated out- side their own lO yard line the whole afternoon, until the fateful play. Clemson had wasted qpporturiity after o.p .. portunity by fumbling deep in Union territory. Review This This should not come across ·- .. 1 as terribly distorted. At least not more so than these have been in the past. Listen: l, and many other people in this small world, have been thinking about how things will be. Be assured they will be different. And to think that an English major can spew out gibberish with no guilt. This is what experience has shown me: this newspaper is not a very effective way for me to communicate to people. I'll have to write a book. Or at least write letters. Letters make mach more sense. Less time consuming-that leaves more time for hanging out. Less tearing of the hail' and grinding of the teeth-it's easy to correct a letter. Or write another. This is the end. One more thing-that's what eo!llposing at the keys gets me, articles that end with \one mare thing.\ My Tuesday nights are free now. Soon all my nights will be free. That will cost. In the words of an idol of mine, \I thank you for your attention.\ '...l(..¥-¥:tllf.¥¥-~ll-¥-¥._lf..¥lf..¥:Jt...•¥••••••)(..•¥¥-¥)1..)#.¥~¥¥¥-¥ Monty •• o -tc . · if Continued from page A l t ... ,\\~ CAMP SOVIET UNION ~ ~E~~=~:::::;:: _. cO~,,.. e....\.,. ~ plans to address early next year ~ . o·~ .. isthe lack of bathroom facilities ~ ~ in some places on campus. \If a iC tt::,'-' . i{ student is going to be drinking, -tc This Weekend, that GaIa Bolshevik iC ~~~~~u~~~uld ir~~::r2r::; \iC iC available. I cannot approve of ~ Celebration Returns to the Union Campus il students relieving themselves -,.. ~ wherever tht:!y happen to be at ~ ~ the time.\ Monty has also i' planned to speak to Security • ~~~~~ ~ +Red T-Shirts ~ more fire hydrants around \l' +Brezhnev Buttons IT'~ A GLOR•Ou§ i( campus. ~ +Maoist Caps with Red Stars '\'AV ~OR __... When, asked about the other -,.. b 'I' \\\' r• . \l' meJ¥bers of the school ad· -+c ~ +May Day Memora I Ia iC ministration that he will be ~ · ~ -Use IDs to Get Bal·l & Chain ~OGIALit>M · working with, Dean Monty 't -tc responded, \I enjoy working -,.. ~ with the President. I could ~ SPECIAL! KILL A BOURGEOIS CAP.ITALIST -,.. spend hours in b.is gardens.\ ~ AND WIN A PRIZE! . i' Monty, eager to prepare for iC ~ his formal acceptance __., \l'. tomorrow morning, sll11llrted up \l' -i« his feelings this way, \I feel iC ~ that I can do the job. I've got .AI' '\J\ follr good legs to stand on. I -,.. iC knew that I was the underdog, ~ ...k but then again, 1 don't sit 't . ,A . '7' around chasing parked cars. I ...,.. .... iC am proud to work in a fine in- it ....... ¥¥ lf..lf}l..lf..Jt..¥-}I.¥···~··~···~JI..·¥ .. )1..)1.:tf.¥~1f..··· :~u~:~ ~!~~~:~nd!~~re every - w se dE P1 \·] at s~ Tl pi N s' th to jr aJ in T tl a dl A a: \' a: n ii d b S1 u lE

