' ' - = . ' CXIII, No.. 1 The 1983 Orientation Committee A· Tradition of Excellence The Union Class of 1987 has been bequeathed a noble inheritance. This inheritance includes the traditions, values, and history of Union College. The Orientation Committee of 1983 believes that rediscovering Union's past will generate a greater sense of pride in the College. Discovering ''roots\ here at Union helps in the understanding of the present. From its founding in 1795 as the first non-denominational college in Amei:ica to the present, Union has always served as a leader in American higher education. It is now up to the Class of 1987 to carry on in the spirit of the many Union classes that have come before them. Union was the first college chartered by the· Regents of the State of New York and the original charter can be ·found in Jean Pelletierre's office in the library. - Union's _campus, or more 'familiarly ''The Grounds,\ was the first in America to have an articUlated ·architectural plan. It was designed in 1813 by French architect Joseph Jacques Ramee. Union College i-s \The Mother of Fraternities.,., The first college fraternities in America were established right here at Union: Kappa Alpha (1825), Sigma Phi (1&27), Delta Phi (1827), and later, Psi Upsilon (1833), Chi Psi (1841), and Theta Delta Chi 0847). The first gymnasium erected in America, Old Gym Hall, was completed in 1874. The Nott Memorial \unquestionably the symbol of Union College,\ is one of two 16· sided buildings in the Western Hemisphere. (The other is said to be a Holiday Inn in Nasnville, Tenn.). 1 'The Nott'', begun in 1858, is listed in the United States Register of Historic Places. The inscription, in Hebrew, reads, \The day is short, .. the work is great, the master presses the workmen.\ Union's radio station, WRUC, is America's first college radio- station. The station operates at a frequency of 89.7 on the FM dial. ' . South College, bililt in 1812, is the oldest continuously inhabited male. dormitory in America. - Eliphalet Nott was president of Union from 1804 to 1866, the longest tenure of any American college president. He was ·president of Union when Abraham Lincoln was born and was still president when- he was assassinated. The movie; \The Way We · Were,\ was filmed at Union. Robert Redford stayed in a trailer behind South College during the fibning. Hans ·Groote's Kill (the . \brook that bounds through ye Old ·Union's Grounds,'' as the alma mater suggests) was named after a Dutch farmer whose fields covered much of the present campus. (Until the midM1960's it was tradition for freshmen to clean up Hans Groote's Kill during orien• tation.) Jackson's Garden was begun in the 1820s by Professor Isaac · ·Jackson, whose home stood alongside North College. His too)Shed can still be found \'behind North College, near th~ Gardens. Within the Garden are two Ginko trees (the fil'st brought to · America from Japan), remains of a trench dug by an ROTC unit during the Civil War, and more than 100 species of rare plants, trees, shrubs, and vines. The Universities of Illinois, Iowa, Michigan, as well as Vassar, Smith, and Ehnira Colleges all count Union alumni as their first presidents. Union alumni include a president of the· United States, . at least six cabinet secretaries, 13 United States Senators, 91 . members of the House of Representatives, 12 governors, 149 important diplomats, 200 judges, and 86 college presidents. Union's colors--garnet and white-were determfued by the restilts of a crewing race witn Harvard. Harvard, which also laid claim to these colors, lost the race. Its colors are now crimson and white. Until the mid-1950s. freslunan hazing was an accepted practice at Union. Freshmen were required to dress up in their pajamas and parade through downtown Schenec- tady. At one time there was a path -that led to the center of campus that only seniors were ,allowed to walk on. The path was located between Lamont House and the Humanities building; and was named Senior Path. .Union;s first president, John Blair Smith, received a salary of $1,100 per year. He also was a close associate of James Continued on page 2 1877 :1 .. · Sep1ember 10, 1983 Union's 189th Year Union's 189th academic year begins Sept. 14, with some 525 freshmen participating in orientation activities Sept. 10.. 13. The orientation program, titled \Discovering Union-A Tradition of Excellence/' in· eludes panel discussipns, receptions, workshops and social events. College board scores for the incoming freshmen are generally in the top 12 percent nationally. Roughly 85 percent of these students are in the top one-fifth of their secondary school class. Dean of Admissions Kenneth Nourse said 3,204 applications were received for this year's freshman class, and 1,249 were accepted. Roughly 80 percent of those students are in the top one-fifth of their secondary school class. . Women comprise 40 percent of the incoming class, ~nd New York State resid~nts comprise .50 percent. Approximately 25 percent attended private schools, and 45 percent will receive some form of financial aid. The Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies at Union offers both graduate and un- dergraduate credit courses in the late afternoon and evening for part-time students. Courses also are offered through branches of Union College· in Kinston, Poughkeepsie, and Pittsfield, Mass. Non-credit courses at Union begin in late -~eptember and early October, covering a range of tot>ics from business and professional skills to cultural interests. Special daytime courses are offered for young people and persons of retirement age. For further information~ contact the college's Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies, Wells House, 370-6288. Among non-credit courses to be given at Union this fall are 300 Years of American Houses, The Art of Listening to Music, Beginning Japanese, and, for the first time in the non-credit program, Classical Ballet. · Courses which can be used toward a Management Development Certificate in- clude Marketing Strategies, Improving Your Memory Skills, Microcomputer Basics for Business, and Time Management. A special series on Environmental Issues of the 1980s will include such guest speakers as Henry Williams, commissioner of the State Department of Enviromnental Conservation, and singer and environmentalist Pete Seeger. · ·Special day-time courses on such subjects as literature~ the Shakers, and physical fitness, will be offered for people of retirement age. Courses for young people will include French, pottery and sculpture, studio production, creative writing, and dramatics. This year's Adirondack Forum, a lecture series offered by the Adirondack Research Center and Union's Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies, will feature discqssions of the folk culture and history of the Adirondacks, as well as a talk on the Adirondack Guideboat by maSter craftsman Carl Hathaway. Courses begin the last week of September through October. For a free brochure, contact the Office of Graduate and Con- tinuing Studies, Wells House. Discover Union Under the.. watchful eye of Sherlock HoJmes, Orientation '83 at Union College begins amidst a number of changes. Besides the improvements to campus facilities themselves, the Orientation program has. been altered to better serve the incoming students. The theme \Discover Union: A Tradition of Excellence\ reflects the desire of the Orientation Conwnttee to introduce new students to the world of Union College. The differences between past programs and Orientation '83 are significant. ''Discover Union\ wil:l introduce new Assistant Dean of Students Robert Ma~a. Among his many duties, his role as adjunct to the Orientation Committee is one of critical importance to the overall functioning of the program. \Discover Union\ will also welcome an entire fresbman class of legally un- deraged students; this means that alcoholic beverages Will not be served throughout the four days of events. Another change involves the relocation of the annual picnic from the Girting Center, situated two miles north of campus, to Alexander Field. This eliminates the problems of transportation that plagued previous picnics. \Discover Union\ is perhaps the strongest Orientation program to date. The arduous task of organizing the entire production has been capably handled by the Orientation Committee under the leader- ship of chairmen Stephen Sipperly and Liz Lysogorski. To all new students therefore a warm welcome and an in- vitation to \Come Live the Union Experience.\

rssr ... l CoN SfOT ofKeS~N a Ml\.e awaY ... Concord iensis September 25, 1973 We're Back By DON HAMMERMAN Back to school, back to work, back to books and late nights and inedible food and discovering oneself and meeting new friends and frustration and, well, life. Ah back to Union, to the Electric Cith; to the Cof- feehouses and Concordy and the fihns and the fraternity parties and the football -games and tenure and, well ... and back to work. But summer wasn't that fantastic was it? Those hot days at the job for which you should have been getting twice the pay they were paying you and summer wasn't that great, was it? No after-hours books to read or papers to write assignments to meet but ain't that half the fun ain't that the essence of higher education? Pressure? Hmmm? Now being a freshman and getting to dig orientation and Saga food and, well ... being a frestnnan one gets to see the college from the virgin per- spective~-from the outside before being sucked down to the abysmal depths of college life. You can see from the outside before falling into the routine when one is tempted to grow too close to observe and criticize; you can see Union through the glass. And then orientation is over, done with, a memory ... a mere bad dream. Oh don't get the idea that I don't like U Coll-it is, well . . . Anyway, Orientation finished and riow you have to pick your own seat in the cafeteria and bang, the classes start and two weeks fly by and you realize you are· behind. \ ... But I just got here, how am I behind?\ Oh blessed summer, I long for your sweet caresses. Union's Past Continued from page 1 Madison in carrying through the Federal Co~itution in the Virginia State convention. FitzHugh Ludlow, Class of 1856, was the author of the College alma mater and a reknowned author in his day. He was also a heavy drug user and an expert on their effects, types and ingestion. A libl-ary in San Francisco devoted to drugs and their hannful consequences is named in his honor. Chester Arthur, Class of 1848, succeeded James A. Garfield as President of the United States in 1881. His administration saw the passage of a Civil Service Refonn Act and the creation of a new, strong navy in addition to the style and character he brought to the office. He ascended to the presidency upon Garfield's assassination but was not renominated for the office in 1884. In the Memorial Chapel, a portrait of William Seward (1820) faces that of Robert Toombs ( 1828) as the men faced one another in 1861, when one was the Secretary of State in the Federal Cabinet and the other held the similar position in the Confederacy. Squire Whipple, Class of 1830, the inventor of the iron truss bridge whose 1847 publication, \Work on Bridge Building,\ was used as a guide in the construction of bridges span- ning the Ohio, MissoUri, and Mississippi Rivers, truly opened the Western Frontiers for settlement. One of his origin~l iron truss bridges was restored and now spans \the brook that bounds\ behind the rink. When reading over COllege essay questions, one frequently comes across the infamous \What will you give to the college in the four years that you spend the1;e? \. This question seems silly-'Well, I will give them approximately $40,000, prestige if I become famous, and maybe more money when I die.' In reality, college is much more than the trade of money for an education. Each college has' its own personality; one which is shaped by those attending it and another by those who ha~e already passed through it'S gates. Union College i~ rich in traditions, values, and'history. The theme of Orientation this year, \Discover. Union: A Tradition of Excellence\ should motivate new.students to do just that. The Orientation Com- mittee of 1983 hopes· that the newest members of the Union community will take. the initiative and discover all the wonderful things in Union's past, therefore better un- derstanding the pvesent. CONCORDIENSIS. September/0, 1983 Who's Who at Union College?-- By SCHEMA aod 10.0 As a freshman, the first few weeks of college may seem confusing abd unmanagable at times. You have your academic responsibilities, as well as your administrative and social ones. For example, a typical fresh- man first day may run something like this; Wake up late, run to your 9:30 Math 10 class. After calculus proceed to the Humanities building for Freshman Preceptorial, and finally you're off .to your 11:30 Psych 10 class. Next: Ahhh ... lunch. However, there's a complication. You've lost your meal card. Don't panic, go up to your room and begin sifting .through your Orientation packet to find out how to obtain a new one. Well, that's where this article comes in. This is· a .\comprehensive\ list of Who's Who at Unio. The following list consists of who replenish, restore, and relax harried freshmen who are in need of · information, services or assistance. Let's start with the missing meal card. 1. Jan Gray. She's the Director of Food Service at Union. She supervises the college meal plans at West College and Hale House, as well as other campus dining establishments such as the Pub and Rathskellar. 2. Dean. Mammola. As the · Dean of Students, . Dean Mammola makes many ad- ministrative decisions that deal with students in a variety of ways. Among these are disciplinary problems, lea\res of absence, and the initiation of new campus clubs and organizations. 3. Dean Wood. Among his many responsibilities as the Dii·ector of Residence Life, Dean Wood supervises the Resident Advisers (R.A.'s) and works ·closely with them to ensure the efficient management of the dor- mitories. 4. Dean Massa. As our new Assistant Dean of Students, Dean Massa is in charge of coordinating a variety of ex- tracurricular activities. These include the Interfraternity Council (IFC), t'he Student Forum, and the Student Con- duct Corrunittee. Mr. Massa is the Dean to see for information about any of the activities or clUbs. 5. Lorraine Marra. Lorraine assists Dean Massa in the Student Activities Office. She can and will answer basically any questions you rpight bave about Union College. 6. Joanne Toblessen. She's the Director of the Career Development Center .and is a lifesaver to many students. She assists in the preparation of reswnes, coordinates student intervi-ews and helps students find the best approach to securing swnmer employment. 7. Cliff Wood. Mr. Wood is the Director of Campus Operations, a position that deals with the Union Cone·ge Safety and Security Department, traffic violations, and ·student car registration. 8. John Morris. Dr. Morris is the President of the College. Need we say more? •.. And Who'sl\eally Who _ After three years of life in the Union community, it is inevitable that one gains special insight as to who the \key\ people on campus are. Without further ado, we present this guide to who's really who. 1. The aforementioned Dean Mammola. By day, he fulfills his responsibilities as Dean of Students. By night, he has been spotted cavorting. with several other College administrators at the· tres chic Schenectady hot spot, Night Fever. We find this hard to believe, because Dean Mairunola is reportedly the Chairman of the College's secret Committee on Celibacy and Sobriety. 2. Head Bartender at the Pub · and Head SkeUar Rat. These peQple can be. instrumental in .providing you with the healthy glow that Union students are famoll$ for. Favorable liaisons with these students can prove to be quite beneficial through your college years. 3. Fresh Kid. ''We need more trays!\ Thi~ cry resounding through West College Dining Hall will become fanilliar to Con~ued on page 7 Paisa Miser . FASHIONS FROM INDIA Back to School·and Summer Special AlL CLOTHING BUY 1 , GET 2nd !;2. PRICE (Same Value or Under) ALL JEWELRY 10% Off ALL BRASS , WICKER 20% With This Acl 163 JAY STREET 377-7973 Checks .Accepted with Visa, Master Cord or American Express . 10:30-6 Daily; 10:30-9 Thursdays

, the is of at hi$ ~an ~se in to 7 ,.. II) CONCORDIE'NSIS, Septem 10, 1983 Page3 j Parental Etiquette I A View ·of the Stockade The eyes of an architect might well look at the beautiful structures. An historian would thrill to the significan. ~vents that happened on our streets, in our churches, in our homes. An architectural historian might rejoice in the catalog he has before him as he walks the streets boasting houses from most every period and style. The film-maker would catch the artistry of a doorknob, or the intricacy of a cornice, the beauty of a doorway. chat witll friends. The Art Show is indeed an event and there are . other events that go on in the Stockade as well. By BEN, and EH.,EEN DOVER The day is finally here, and hopefully by now you have realized that . you are not the only one UNION admitted on that fateful April 15. For many of you, your parents .are also beginning college. With this in mind, we have written the following etiquette guide for you to clip out, and give to your parents. 1. Nonchalantly ·drive onto the college campus. DO NOT ask directions. It is much better to drive aimlessly looking for your dorm then commit the ultimate embarassment of asking a student for directions. 2. What you wear directly reflects your child's image. No UNION paraphenaUa, or athletic wear. . Moderate jewelry and low shoes are suggested.' Absolutely NO polyester. 3. The information in the Orientation packet is for the student's use. The,.. obedient parent. simply carries the packet for his or her child, and does not look into it for in· formation. 4. Do NOT ask you son's or daughter's roommate personal questions, nor try to force conversation. Lack of con- versation is better than trivial small talk. College students thrive on awkward silence. - 5. Every time a member of the opposite ser walks by, refra-in from poking your daughter with your elbow. They· will soon realize that Union is . full of pre-laws and pre-meds. 6. Don't try to secure the best living facilities .for child (i.e. bed, desk, etc.). Let him.,ber fight it out with his-her room· mate. 7. While walking on campus, DONOTPOINT. Your child will have four years to realize the architectural appeal of Union College. - 8. Don't kiss your child ·goodbye. You'll see him-her at Thanksgiving .. By HENRY J. BlNZER, President ProTem Stockade Association History is what the Stcx:kade is made of-a history stretching back throughtime all the way to 1661 when Arendt Van Curler established the town of Schenectady on the Great ·Flats that lay in the valley of the Mohawk River. Because this new town was the farthest· western settlement of the Dutch, and even though the Mohawks were friendly, discretion being the better part of valor, the townsmen erected a stockade with the requisite blockhouse. Hence our area of the city got a name. One feels this history when one strolls the streets of the Stockade. One feels a tie back in time. One feels that the Stockade is a wonderful place to live. _ This small section of the city has been called a valuable treasure. The, val11es of the treasure . can be viewed, of course, through different eyes. Job· Prospects ·Narrow ByDAVIDGAED:E (CPS)-When it comes to getting a jo.b, Grambling Placement Director L.B. Smith has one short piece of advice : ··~You don't want to be a college _ graduate in 1983.\ Nineteen eighty•tilree has been ''the worst employtnent market in my 25 yeats in the profession,\ adds .Victor lin- dquist, placement chief at Northwestern and director of the annual\Endicott Report of how students around the country are faring in the job market' · AlthOugh graduates of two- year colleges may be · a little · more successful this year in finding jobs than their coun- terparts at four-year schools, counselors around the nation are seemingly unanimous in calling this the worst student · job market within memory for all collegians. At some schools, as many as half the firms that normally recruit on campus failed. to show up to interview students this year. Nationwide, job offers to all spring grads fell by 17· percent from 1982 levels. Even engineering and · in the last tw.o years. Corporate recruiters, moreover, report their campus interviewing is down 62 percent in the same period. Grambling's Smith says only about 55 percent of his school's spring graduating class has found jobs. At Oregon State University, \We're wondering if all this talk of economic recovery isn't just polities,'' says Marjorie McBride, associate placement director. \The doors sure aren't swinging open here.\ . Oregon State's picture: 36 percent fewer recruiters visiting campus, 18 percent fewer student interviews, and ''still the worst (job market) I've ever seen,\ McBride says. \I don't know of any campus or any major that's been im- mune from·( declines in the job market,\ Lindquist says. Community college grads, however, seem to be doing better. \We have 87 percent of our grads placed, and 12 percent went into other continuing education programs,'' brag!) Ann Pierce, St. Louis Com~ munity College~Florissant Valley's placement director. \But it's because we have so many technical programs,'' she explains. \Overall we had a more difficult time, but like a computer· science grads-who typically were fielding six or seven job offers just a year ago- -have gotten 12 percent fewer offers than the Class of 1982. Officials say things may be getting worse in the short run. Job offers so far to four-year college grads are down an average of 34 percent since 1982. ~·lot of other community colleges we're finding that companies are .looking for two-year graduates with specific techrtical training.'' Oddly enough, liberal arts majors are the only four-year campus grads doing better this sununer and fall. Thus far they've entertained 10 percent more offers than the Class of 1982. Starting salaries for hwnanities majors rose 7.6 percent, a College Placement Council ( CPC) ·campus survey released .in August found. Engineering majors continue to attract the highest starling salaries and the most number of job offers, but nowhere near the height11 their predecessors achieved in the late seventies and early. eighties. Businesses have made 42 percent fewer offers to them, the CPC reports. And while the $26,736 average starting salary for chemical engineers ranked. second ·- only to petroleum engineers' $30,816, it was acM- tuaUy 1.2 percent lower than 1982's average figures. Accor~g to Northwestern's Endicott update, the number of college graduates hired has declined a whopping 41 p•cent In fact, she adds, \many companies are choosing two- year tecbnical grads over· ap- plicants with backelor's degrees-even over engineers and computer science majors- because they don't have to pay them as much, and they .can train them the 'company way' as opposed to a university's program approach.'' . \When my colleagues in engineering placement start complaining about their· low pla·.cement rates,\ Lindquist jokes, ''I'm telling them 'Welcome to the world of liberal arts placement. ' \ But better times may be ahead. ' Most job ex.perts, along with corporate employers and personnel directors; e:xpect 1984 to be a better year~ \Hopefully it's going to look . up the closer . w~ get to the presidential elections, n Smith says. ''Between now and next spring I'm loo\Qng for a marked uptu~.\ 1 Likewise, Oregon State's - McBJ.ide is hopeful things will improve, \but we won't know for sure until we see how many (recruiters) actually show up in October.\ Engineering grads, too, can \expect things to perk up a bit this year,\ according to Pat Sheridan, executive director of the Engineering Manpower Commission. ''But,\ .he warns, \I don't think things will ever get back to the levels in the late seventies and early eighties when grads were getting seven or eight job offers apiece and starting salaries were increasing at 12 percent a year.\ Ex.xon, which this year hired \about a third\ as many college grads as it did in 1981, expects to hire 10 percent more grads this spring, Professional Recruit- ment Director Ray · Tickner predicts. Hughes Aircraft, a major employer of engineers, will also be hiring more people next year, according to a company spokesman. Tex.as Instruments \may hire slightly more engineers than this last year,\ says company spokesman George Berryman, \but we don't anticipate any major increase.\ General Motors, though, says its hiring was already up 40 percent for spring 1983, \and may increase as much as 50 percent\ for next spring, ac- cording to spokesman Bill Cowell. \It's a mixed picture,\ ob- serves Lindquist, ''but we do hope the worst is over. Com- puter sCience and engineering . majors are still the degrees of choice.\ But before any major im- provement occurs, he adds, \the shipping doors have to swing open before the doors in the employment office swing very wide.\ w F E R L E c 0 M E s H M .E N Yet there are still other treasures in the Stockade. Treasures that can only be seen by living here in this small town in the midst of a city. There's a special flavor in this neigh- borhood--a neighborhood of diverse residents who take pride in their community, responsibility for their neigh· borhood and pleasure in their ambience. Our population includes children, thqugh there are not as many as there should be. And there are single young people who are starting careers, and who will live here maybe only a short time and then move on. And we have people well on in years. There are some neigh· bors who spent their halcyon days in tenancy in the Stockade, people who have lived here all or most of their lives and people who have returned after many years in the suburbs. We have people of considerable wealth and we have people who have very little wealth. People of great talent Iive in the neighborhood-who work in a great variety of fields. Some of these people have tasted fame in their professions but most of us are merely famous to each other. The Annual Stockade Walkabout, held the last Saturday in September, is not only the major fundraiser for the Stockade Association, but it is an event that lets the Stockade share its historical importance with hundreds of visitors. For a few hours several generous homeowners or apartment dwellers open their homes to all who come and provide guided tours of their residences. People have been known to come by bus loads from many miles d,istant to enjoy the oportunity of spending the day poking around oru neighbornood and sensing a .Piece of history firsthand. Events, then, are a part of the treasures · of living in the Stockade. But there is more. Walk through the churchyard at St. Georg'es very early in the morning-early before anyone else has used upthe day-see the sunshine on the gravestones- those old stones with the worn inscriptions. The sense of history again. Take a stroll on a warm sU1ll!Iler evening down to the river\-meet some neighbors on the way. It's usually cooler by the river and one sometimes gets the added treat of watching a barge go by. I still love to watch the tug pushing its tow up or down stream. Maybe a luxury yacht will go by that you watch with envy at the lucky family that owns her. The Stockade is in the city and of the city. 'That means city noises -the wailing of the fire sirens, the traffic sounds on Union Street~ the rumble of freight trains that shake my house andthe delightful clang of the bell on the turboliner as it pulls into (JUT new downtown train station. These are the sounds of the city and they are the sounds of the Stockade. There are artists who live here--professional · artists and artists who have other professions. It is because of the. artists who have other professions that we have the gala event that happens every year the weekend after Labor Day~-The Villagers' Outdoor Art Show. On this day, the streets are blocked off to allow some 200 artists to e:xhibit their works and probably thousands of people to come downtown to walk in the sunshine, to look at the paintings and sculpture, to The Stockade is alive. It is ·a neighborhood. It is a living museum. rt is a catalogof arch- itectural styles. It is a political ward in a city. It is a small town. It is a sophisticated, urbane space. It is my home and it is lovely. Qlllltfllrbirttsis f 11umkd ut I mun ( ollr[!< /I.-· SUBSCRIBE TODAYI Attention Freshmen Parents: Keep up with what's happening on cCJmpus ... Have a part of Union mailed home each week. For only $18.00 you can have CONC,ORDY for ,the whole year. Make your check payable to CONCORDIENSIS Mail to Box 2577, Union College Schenectady, N .. Y. 12308 -------------------------------- - YES! Enclosed is my check to receive Concordy all year. Name __________________________________________ 1 ------------------zip-

·'. '· • Page.4 CONCORIJIENSIS, September 10, 1983 II) .~ Julie Abel man Doug l,.andon Editors Welcome .~ :c a. >- ... ltl ~ >- .0 .s 0 .c 0. We wl.luld like to join the Orientation Committee, administration and fsllow upperclasmnen in welcoming the clas5 of '87 and tran- sfer students to the Union College conununity. The 'Qrientation Committee has worked hard to provide you with a smooth tran- sition from your home environment to Union life. Orientation will pass more quickly than you expect. Make the most of these next few days, for the attitude you develop about Union now is likely to remain with you for the next four years. Don't be overwhlemed by the abundance of schedules, rules, combinations and brochures thrown at· you this week. Over five hundred others on this campus are suffering the same confusion as you. Fear not. Everything will fall into place in no time. Once you become adjusted to college life, interest in student activities will develop. Concordiensis, beginning its 106th year oJ publication, is the ne.ws~r of Union College. We strongly -en- courage you to become a part of this \traditiop of excellence.\ The entire college community reads the Concordy and depends on it for news, events, sports coverage and especially party information. The paper is published weekly and distributed every Thursday in Carnegie Hall. We invite and urge all students with sincere interest in par- ticipating in the. mechanics of a newspaper to join us Tuesday evening, September 22nd, in the Concordiensis office to get acquainted and learn about your school paper. We need people to write news, features, and spor.ts articles, solicit advertising, do business, layouts, type or take pictures. Our staff is a group of hard· working, fun-loving people .. If you believe you can contribute to the success of Concordiensis, please f~el free to stop by or call. If working on the newspaper does not interest you, get involved in one or more other clubs and activities Union has to offer. Par-, ticipating in .extracurricular activities is a great way to become part of the Union College conununity. Through organizations such as the Concordiensis, student government, the radio station, clubs and sports, you will meet many people as well as ~relieve some of the inevitable academic pressures. In the meantime, forget about work for now. Wednesday will come soon enough. Relax, meet people, absorb Union's hospitality, and, most of all, have fun! Doug Landon '85 Julie Abelman '84 Union College Slang ByT. MEGERIAN MYRTLE: \Hey Myron, what's up? You look really bummed. What's the matter, blow off that organic Chemistzy e~ yesterday?\ MYRON~ '\Yeah I blew it! It's my fault though. I shouldn't have gotten so truhed the night before.\ MYRTLE: \Well stud, you have to pay the price sometime . . . can't expect to go up north viSiting · skiddies everynight and stilla~e those Orgo tests!\ 'MYRON: \I guess you're right. I knew I should ·have taken all guts Ulis term ... it has been such a grind with three sciences! \ MYRTLE: \Poor boy! I'm sure you'll live. Listen, we're .going over to Mickey D's for dinner. Wanna come?\ MYRON: \'No thanks, Myrt, I'm heading over to Sambe's for a chew and screw . . . I'll catch yo_u later at the SkeUar!_\ If you were thrown by Some of the lingo used in the preceding · encounter of two realistic Union College students, then this summary of some of the mDre popular college jargon sbould be a helpful introduction to the ood assortment of terminDlogy a newcomer observes at Union., Depending upon where you are from; some of the words may .seem familiar . . . if not, don't worry. Through your ex· periences with others they will become a part of your working vocabulary. In the meantime, if someone comes up with a phrase which you've never beard, use the old 11 let's pretend not to be ignoranf' routine: That is, nod your head several times, throwing in a \YeQh . . . Uh huh •.. ha ha ha, that's funny\ after every few nods. It works every time! Aced v. (From the importance of holding an ace in a game of black jack or poker. eg. \Ari ACE in the hole.\} 1. Todoverywellon sometlling; Specifically, \To ACE an exam.\ , ie; to get a perfect score or close to it on an ex:am. Bag it v. (From N.Y. City lower east side; originates from 'to bag' or place in a paper container for discard; ie. put in a garbage bag. ) l. To give up an activity •. . cease to allow the perpetuation of; 2. As in; To BAG a topic. eg. \Let's BAG class this mor- ning.\ ie. let's not go to dass. SYN: Blow it off Blow Off v. (From Connecticut; esp. New Haven suburb streets. Originates from the Old West; eg. \To BLOW someone ~way.\) 1. As in; \To BLOW OFF a class.\ ie. to not attend one's class. 2. \To BLOW OFF at). exam\ ; ie. to fail to achieve one's hopes for grade on an exam._ Cage n. The athletic storeroom located in the Alumni Gym. Chet n. (From Chester Arthur, 21st president of the U.S,) RefeJ.lr~g to the amiable statue of alumnus Chester Arthur, located adjacent to Carnegie Hall. Chew &Screw . v. Tbe act of ordering and eating food from an eating establishment (chew) and then leaving without properly reimbursilig the said establish- ment for services rendered. (screw) Chopper Runs n. (CHOPPER from Price Chopper ie, a chain of super- markets~ Referring to a sojourn to the local . Price Chopper. Usually is mad~ at night and is accompanied by a shout down the dorm hall of; \Anyone fc;~r a Chopper Run!'' Crash v. (from Connecticut, esp. New Haven suburbs) 1. To go to sleep; . especially when one is extremely exha1JSted as from physical· mental overwork or excessive alconolic consumption 2. As in \I CRASHED 'heavily after the party.\ Dotds n. (from Union College .slang Schenectadoid', deriving originally .from U.S. city of Schenectady.) 1. Those' persons residing in or who have at one time resided in the city of Schenectady; 2. Tho~ persons resembling a person from Schenectady; ie. Cheesy beard; scraggly hair; old ripped t-shirt; · blatant absence of certain .front teeth; · characteristic .rancid odor (you'll know it when you smell it.) SYN: Townie Fresh Kid n. Referring to a sweet woman who has served meals in West Dining Hall since the founding of the college. She is noted for her characteristic cry; \Ineedtrays ... I need ... I need!\ · G.D.I. n. 1. Abbreviation for \God Damned ·Independent\ 2. Referring to those who refuse to join the ranks of any of the esta bUshed fraternal organizations on campus. Grind adj. (from \to be put throUgh the grinder.\) 1. Describing something which requires a great dear of hard· . work or hardship. eg. \My courses are a real GRIND\ 2. N. R~ferring to hard work or grueling effort; eg. \I can't take the GRIND anymore!\ Gut n:,-or adj. Usually referring to a course which requires a little or no effort. ie. an easy course! Remember, \There are no GUTS at Union!\ - Idol n·. 1. Our most beloved relic at Union College. Donated by the class of 1856, this disfigured, multiple sandblasted representation of a lion with her cubs is to be found. just behind the library and is available for your creative painting pleasure. 2. A most creative literary magazine publiShed several times a year. All entries are welcomed by the editors. Kissmgthe Porecelatn Tbrone. 1. Refers · to that activity common to most humans who have over consumed their ~on cOr Editors-in-Chief News Editors Features Editors Advertising Editor Photo Editor nonnal capacity in alcohol. 2. SYN: Blowing Technicolor: ToSsing one's Cookies .- Loser . n. (from verb \to IO$e\ or \to cease to have\) 1. One who ceases to possess anything of value about him· herself. 2. A person for . whom you symp~thize but wouldn't be caught dead with. Mickey D's, n. An .affectionate term for McDonald's fast food chain. Preps, Japs, and .Jocks The .three classes .of pe<>ple attending school at Union College. :Psyched . v. or adj. 1. That state of mind eXisting when one is primed ~nd excited about an event; 2. Usually a command; eg. ''Get PSYCHED for Orientation '83!\ Pub 1. Referring to the Dutch Hollow Pub, located in. lower Carnegie; 2. One of two hangouts on campus. Sambo's n. (from the chain of restaurants, now extinct, known later as Sam's~) · ' · 1. Has always, does now, _and always will refer: to that eating place located juSt outside · of campus on the corner of Nott Terrace and Eastern Pkwy and presently under the name Season's. Skellar: n. (from Rathskellar) 1. That hangout of hangouts located beneath Old Chapel; adjacent to Hale HoWie. 2. A gathering place where one can expect to find friends and acquaintances sitting around chatting. Home of the best milkshakes on campus! · Skiddies . ri. (from Skidrtiore, a small, · · until ·recently, all womens college for daughters Df well-to- do northeast business en- trepreneurs.) 1. Referring to those women enrolled at Skidmore Ccrllege noted for their good \rapport\ with certain Union College men. 2. Brown spots found in one's underwear when receivmg a 'D' on an exam. Throat ·n. (from the latin, Pre- Medicos Throaticus) 1. Anyone engagjng in · cut throat activities, be they pre- law, pre-med, engineering or ~Yother competitive piajor. 2. THROATING OUT; v. Spending 24 of the 16 waking hours in the all night study. Toga n. (from SARATOGA, a small U.S. city noted for the ritzy crowd it draws during the summer horse racing months.) 1. A college town 40 minutes · north of the Union College. Continued on page 5 Doug Landon, Julie Abelman Jay ~aruch, Gayle Rosenfeld Donna Getson, Norman Birnbach Mary Ann Gagliardi Mary Phillips CONCORDIENSIS is published· every Thursday by the student body of Union College, .Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications~ Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838,~_(607) 56'3-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as first class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $18 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. - CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB) . Office telephone· 370-6155. •. .

en .~ Page.4 CONCORDIENSIS. September 10, 1'983 Julie Abelman Doug LaAdon Editors Welcome .~ .c:: a. > L. ttl ~ > .0 E 0 .c:: 0. We Wlluld like to join the Orientation Committee, administration and fellow upperclassmen in welcoming the class of '87 and tran- sfer students to the Union College community. The Orientation Committee has worked hard to provide you with a smooth tra.n- sitton from your home envirorunent to Union life. Orientation will P<lSS more quickly than you expect. Make the most of these next few days, for the attitude you develop about Union now is likely to remain with you for the next four years. Don't be overwhlemed by the abundance of schedules, rules, combinations and brochures thrown at you this week. Over five hundred others on this campus are suffering the same confusion as you. Fear not. Everything will fall into place in no time. Once you become adjusted to college life, interest in student activities will develop. Concordiensis, beginning its 106th year of publication, is the newspaper of Union College. We strongly en- courage you to become a part of this ·'tradition of excellence.'' The entire coliege community reads the Concordy and depends on it for news, events, sports coverage and especially party information. The paper is published weekly and distributed every Thursday in Carnegie Hall. We invite and urge all students with sincere interest in par- ticipating in the mechanics of a newspaper to join us Tuesday evening, September 22nd, in the Concordiensis office to get acquainted and learn about your school paper. We need people to write news, features, and sports articles, solicit advertising, do business, layouts, type or take pictures. Our staff is a group of hard· working, fun-loving people. If you believe you can contribute to the success of Concordiensis, please f~el free to stop by or call. If working on the newspaper does not interest you, get involved in one or more other clubs and activities Union has to offer. Par-. ticipating in .extracurricular activities is a great way to become part of the Union College conununity. Through organizations such as the Concordiensis, student government, the radio station, clubs and sports, you will meet many people as well as relieve some of the inevitable academic pressures. In the meantime, forget about work for now. Wednesday will come soon enough. Relax, meet people, absorb Union's hospitality, and,mostofall,havefun! Doug Landon '85 Julie Abelman '84 Union College Slang ByT.MEGERIAN MYRTLE: \Hey Myron, what's up? You look really bummed. What's the matter, blow off that Organic Chemistry exam yesterday?\ MYRON: \Yeah I blew it! It's my fault though. I shouldn't have gotten so trashed the night before.\ MYRTLE: ''Well stud, you have to pay the price sometime . . . can't expect to go up north visiting · sklddies everynight and still ace those Or go tests! \ MYRON: \I guess you're right. I knew I should have taken all guts this term ... it has been such a grind with three sciences! \ MYRTLE: \Poor boy! I'm sure you'll live. Listen, we're .going over to Mickey D's for dinner. Wanna come?\ MYRON: \No thanks, Myrt, I'm heading over to Sambo's for a chew and screw ... I'll catch you later at the Skellar!\ If you were thrown by some of the lingo used in the preceding encounter of two realistic Union College students, then this summary of some of the more popular college jargon should be a helpful introduction to the odd assortment of terminology a newcomer observes at Union. Depending upon where you are from, some of the words may seem familiar ... if not, don't worry. Through your ex- periences with others they will become a part of your working vocabulary. In the meantime, if someone comes up with a phrase which you've never heard, use the old \let's pretend not to be ignorant\ routine: That is, nod your head several times, throwing in a \Yeah ... Uh huh . . . ha ha ha, that's funny\ after every few nods. It worlts every time! Aced v. (From the importance of holding an ace in a game of black jack or poker. eg. \An ACE in the hole.\) 1. To do very well on something; Specifically, \To ACE an exam.\ ie; to get a perfect score or close to it on an exam. Bag it v. (From N.Y. City lower east side; originates from 'to bag' or place in a paper container for discard; ie. put in a garbage bag.) 1. To give up an activity .. . cease to allow the perpetuation of; 2. As in; To BAG a topic. eg. \Let's BAG class this mor- ning.\ ie. let's not go to class. SYN: Blow it off Blow Off v. (From Connecticut; esp. New Haven suburb streets. Originates from the Old West; eg. \To BLOW someone away.\) 1. As in; \To BLOW OFF a class.\ ie. to not attend one's class. 2. \To BLOW OFF an exam\; ie. to fail to achieve one's hopes for grade on an exam. Cage n. The athletic storeroom located in the Alumni Gym. Chet n. (From Chester Arthur, 21st president of the U.S.) Refel'l'ing to the amiable statue of alumnus Chester A.rthur, located adjacent to Carnegie Hall. Cbew&Screw v. The act of ordering and eating food from an eating establislunent (chew) and then leaving without properly reimbursing the said establish- ment for services rendered. (screw) Chopper Runs n. (CHOPPER from Price Chopper ie, a chain of super- markets) Referring to a sojourn to the local Price Chopper. Usually is made at night and is accompanied by a shout down the dorm hall of; \Anyone for a Chopper Run!\ Crash v. (from Connecticut, esp. New Haven suburbs) 1. To go to sleep; especially when one is extremely exhausted as from physical- mental overwork or excessive alcoholic consumption 2. As in \I CRASHED heavily after the party.\ Do ids n. (from Union College slang Schenectadoid, deriving originally from U.S. city of Schenectady.) 1. Those persons residing in or who have at one time resided in the city of Schenectady; 2. Those persons resembling a person from Schenectady; ie. Cheesy beard; scraggly hair; old ripped t-shirt; blatant absence of certain front teeth; characteristic rancid odor (you'll know it when you smell it.) SYN: Townie Fresh Kid n. Referring to a sweet woman who has served meals in West Dini.ng Hall since the founding of the college. She is noted for her characteristic cry; \I need trays ... I need ... I need!\ G.D.I. n. 1. Abbreviation for \God Damned Independent\ 2. Referring to those who refuse to join the ranks of any of the established fraternal organizations on campus. Grind adj. (from \to be put through the grinder. 11 ) 1. Describing something which requires a great deal of hard work or hardship. eg. \My courses are a real GRIND\ 2. N. Referring to hard work or grueling effort; eg. \I can't take the GRIND anymore! 11 Gut n./or adj. Usually referring to a course which requires a little or no effort. ie. an easy course! Remember, \There are no GUTS at Union!\ Idol n. 1. Our most beloved relic at Union College. Donated by the class of 1856, this disfigured, multiple· sandblasted representation of a lion with her cubs is to be found just behind the library and is available for your creative painting pleasure. 2. A most creative literary magazine published several times a year. All entries are welcomed by the editors. Kissing the Porecelain Throne 1. Refers to that activity conunon to most humans who have over consumed their Editors-in-Chief News Editors Features Editors Advertising Editor Photo Editor normal capacity in alcohol. 2. SYN: Blowing Technicolor; Tossing one's Cookies Loser n. (from verb ''to lose\ or \to cease to have\) 1. One who ceases to possess anything of value about him- herself. 2. A person for whom you sym~thize but wouldn't be caught dead with. Mickey D's n. An affectionate term for McDonald's fast food. chain. Preps, Japs, and Jocks The .three classes of people attending school at Union CoHege. Psyched v. oradj.l. That state of mind existing when one is primed and excited about an event; 2. Usually a command; eg. \Get PSYCHED for Orientation '83!\ Pub 1. Referring to the Dutch Hollow Pub, located in lower Carnegie; 2. One of two hangouts on campus. Sambo's n. (from the chain of restaurants, now extinct, known later as Sam's.) 1. Has always, does now, .and always will refer to that eating place located just outside · of campus on the corner of Nott Terrace and Eastern Pkwy and presently u.nder the name Season's. Skellar n. (from Rathskellar) 1. That hangout of hangouts located beneath Old Chapel; adjacent to Hale House. 2. A gathering place where one can expect to find friends and acquaintances sitting around chatting. Home of the best milkshakes on campus! Skid dies n. (from Skidmore, a small, until recently, all womens college for daughters of well-to- do northeast business en- trepreneurs.) 1. Referring to those women enrolled at Skidmore College noted for their good \rapport\ with certain Union College men. 2. Brown spots found i.n one's underwear when receiving a 'D' on an exam. Throat n. (from the latin, Pre- Medicus Throaticus) 1. Anyone engaging in cut throat activities, be they pre- law, pre-med, engineering or any other competitive major. 2. THROATINGOUT; v. Spending 24 of the 16 waking hours in the all night study. Toga n. (from SARATOGA, a small U.S. city noted for the ritzy crowd it draws during the summer horse racing months.) 1. A college town 40 minutes north of the Union College Continued on page 5 Doug Landon, Julie Abelman Jay Baruch, Gayle Rosenfeld Donna Getson, Norman Birnbach Mary Ann Gagliardi Mary Phillips CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as first class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $18 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB) . Office telephone - 370-6155. ' . -.:· ·' .

2. ~h • r y ) ~ CONCORDIENSIS, September 10. 1983 PageS Orientation Highlights SATU.R.DAY, SEPTEMBE·R 10 - 8:30-12:00·-Car!!Jiie Hall--Registration: Obtain Orientation Information. --11 :30-12:30-·'MtiiiDrial Chapoi··Parent lnfo,.,..tion session: II Acadelllic Expectations\ -12:30•1 :45·-Mtmorial Field HOuse·- President's Lun¢heoli · - 2:00-3:00·-Melllorial Chapel--President's Convocation - 3:00-4:00-·Jackson's. Garden.(if \ining Hale House:)--President's Reception - 4:00-5: 00- •.Social Sciences Blclg., Room 016· -Financial Aiel Meeting -4:00•5:00-•Humaliities Bldg., Room 11 0·-Careir Development Workshop - 4:00•5: GO--Memorial Chapei•·Parent lnfo.-mation Session: '\Student Lift\ ..-4:00-5:00--See Schedule-·First O.-ientation Group M•etings - 5:30-7:30-~Hale llouse•-Dinner: Groupsl-18 - 5:30-7::30--West Coliege-~Dinner: Groups 19-36 ..... 7:30-8:30--Each Dor111itory--Fioor Meetings ..,.. 8:30- ?---Each. Dormitory--Dorm Socials -- 8:30-?--Hale House Courtyard--Social for Transfer Students SUN'DAY, S.EPTEMBER 1.1 -9:00·11:00--West College--Faculty and Student Advising Brunch .,....Jl:30-l2:30--.Same locations as Sat., 4:CI0··2nd Orientatiun Group Meetings -12:-30-2:00-·.Memorial, Field House-•Mamfatory Meeting fD,Freshman Survey -12:30-2:00-~Banquet Room, Carnegie Haii•-Speciql Meetingfor Transfer Students - 2:00·3 :00· -Divisional Meetings- -l Humanities in H1,1manities 0 19, II SociaUc:iences in SSG16, Ill Sciences in Old Chapel, IV Engia,eering in Butterfield 2CI4 (the Alps) ..:.. 3:1»0·6:00--Aiexander Field--PICNIC - \ -7:aG·8:00··Banquetloom, Carnegie Haii-·JSO Hillel Recepfion -7:aG·8:0G··Stage U, 3rd Floor Carnegie--Newman Club Reception for Catholic Stu~ents ~ 7 :1»0·8:00·-~th Floor Lounge, Carnegie Mall--Campus Protestant Fellowship Re~eption - B:D0-9:00·-Msmorial Chapel--Ecumenical Service - 9:00-12:00--Surprise Social Event ' /' MOND.A y I SEPTEMBER 12 -7:30-9:00-·West Cetllege.~Breakfast. - 9:00~ 1 O:OCI·-DepartnwntaJ Mee1ings--First Session--S~e schedule for locations -10:00.11 :GO-•Departmental Meetings--Second Session--See schedules for locations -10:00-11 :00·-Social Sciences Bldg., Roo111 Gl6--Liberal Arts Meeting -10:00-H:OO•-Butterfield 204--Healt.h Professions Meeting - 1 0:00-1l:OO-·SS014--Pre-La~_Society Meeting -10:00·1.1:00-·Bailey Hall205--lnstitute of Administration & Management Meeting ~ l1 :OO-l2:CIO--Fac1,1lty Offic:es-·Acadenaie Advising. Meeting for Transfer Students•-See Orientation Packets~ Also at 1 :00·2:00 - l1 ! 00-12: GO--to be announced.- -Student Services Orientation (Tour) -12:00-1:38--West College--Lunch -l:00-\5:00-•Aiu..-rii Gym-~Registration for Transfer Students · - l:00-5:00--Faculty Offi~es--Academic Advising Meetings-.$ee Orientation Packets -4:00-5:~0-·President's House--President's Reception: Groups 1-9, 19-27 -5:30-7:00--WestCollege-•Dinn~r · - 5:30-7:CIO-·Dean of Student's Residence--Dinner for Transfer Students .... 7:00-8:00--Silme lacations cas Sat., 4:00•-3rd Orientation Group Meetings - 8:00-9:00--Memorial· Chapei~·Mandatory Meeting for all new students -9:00-10:30--Cabaret Room, Carnegie Hall--Cabaret: Groups 7-12 -9:00-11:00--Dutch Hollow Pub--Coffeehouse: Groups 13-18,31-36 -10:30-12:CIO--Cabaret Room, Carnegie Hall--Cabaret: Groups 19-24 ..... 9:00-11 :OO--SSOl6··Movies: \A Union of People\ and ''The Way We Wereu . . TUESIDA y I SEPTEMBER 13 -7 :30-9:0D-•West College--Breakfast - 8:00·12:00·-Fcu:ulty Offices--A~demic Advising Meetings--See Orientation Packets - 8 :40-12:00· -Alumni Gym--Registration: by Group , -9:30-1 0:30·-Career Development Center--Career Development Workshop for Transfer Students--First Session - 10:30-11 :30-·Career Development Center--Career Development Workshop for Transfer St~dents- -Second Session - 11 :30·1 :00--West College--Lunch - 1 :00-5:00-·Aiumni Gym--Registration: by Group -5:CI0·7:00·;West College and Hale House--Dinner--regular meal plan begins ~8:00-9:00-·President's House--President•s Reception: Groups l0-18, 28-36 -8:CI0-9:30··Cabaret Room, Carnegie Hall--Cabaret: Groups 1·6 -8:0.0-10.:00·-55016-·Movies: \A Union of People\ and ''The Way We Were\ -9:30·11 :00·-Cabaret Room, Carnegie Hall--Cabaret: Groups 25·30 ' WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMB-ER 14 (LASSES BEGIN Slang ••. Continued from page 4 campus, boasting such famous dancing and gathering at- tractions as Rafters, Barclay's, · Metro and several other musts for U.C. students to visit once .. . and then again ... and again! SYN: Going North Townies n. (from Olde English term \Townspeople\) .. · 1. See Ooids 2. Referring to the . natives of any city With as much . to offer as our beloved hometown of Schenectady. Trashed adj. 1. A state of existence incurred upon oneself thro11gh the excessive consumption of alcoholic or other mind altering substances. To be o\rerheard in conversations most frequently on ~ednesday and M~onday mommgs. 2. SYN: WASTED; PLASTERED; HAMMERED We're There ·An expression indicating that one has arrived at. his-her pr~planned point of destination . . . not necessarily a place but more often a state of mind; eg: Person No. 1: \~t's go to Toga and get trashed!\; Person No. 2: \Hey We're There!\ . - One last little unwritten rule that is passed down to incoming freshman every year at Union: \You never, ever call frater- nities 'Frats' ... after all, you wouldn't call your country a .. . ! \ . A Royal Welcome Welcome to Union College- You are the 189th freslunan class to arrive here. Your ability and your desire for education have brought you. Now the !Jurden for that education rests -lightly enough I hope - on you. I assure you, there are many who are eager and able to lfUide you. You will face tnany questions. The richness and the significance of your questions will derive ·in part from the degree to which you are involved with ~ing Union your college. Faculty members, fellow students, administrators in various offices, all will be available to help you as you engage the complex process -of living, and learning in a residential college. Academic rigor will be a part of your daily life. Be finn in your: com- mitment to your own education, you will find. yourself in touch with many aspects of the college. Never will you have a better opportunity to learn to take charge of your education than you have before you. Work at lt. I welcome you and wish you the best. Sincerely, JohnS. Morris President President Morris Transfers Greeted A Note to the Transfers: As members of the·Trarisfer sub-committee, we hope we have succeeded in scheduling activities that will appeal to your specific needs. We have integrated the transfers into the incoming class as well as trying to segregate you .so that you can meet a variety of people in the beginning days at UNION. We believe that each activity is important, whether it is socially or academically oriented, so please make the most of your Orientation. Orientation for transfers is not as much an orientation to college life, but more an in,. troduction to Union and what it has to offer to you. Your par- ticipation in the orientation activities will make you feet a part of Union right from the start as well as give you a chance to meet other new students and upperclassmeh. Our theme this fall is \Discover Union. A Tradition of Excellence.\ With this in mind, we hope that you will explore what is offered and strive to keep the reputation of Excellence. Your stay at Union is sho~r than that of the in- coming freshmen, so start now and while you are enjoying Orientation, DISCOVER UNION!! Have a great orientation and we look forward to meeting you soon. June Glaser '84 Peter Ruggiero '84 Transfer Sub-committee members You are Cordially Invited to Become Pqrt of a Tradition of Excellence ,;!ict· . M ~Y-:~~ ~· . ~lUU.ttr a ~~:! 95 .utrnsts ~~ Established 1877 · CONCORDIENSIS can offer new students positions in any aspect of newspaper production: REPORTING COPY EDITING PHOTOGRAPHY LAYOUT BUSINESS We're always looking for new ideas and new talent! Come ·,o the Club t:.xpo - Meet the Editors- Ask Questions. Enjoy Refreshments We Look Fo.rward to Seeing You There! · Discover the mogic of good books THE OPEN DOOR :L'lS-136 Joy Street Downtown Schenectady 046-2719 Books • Gifts • Posters • Pottery by Rose Catalano •

2. be pie on 2. ~et !\ of A s 0 t r - i ' . -.· .. - CONCORDIENSJS, September 10, 1983 PageS Orientation Highlights SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 10 -8:30-12:00--Car~tegie Halla·Registration: Obtain Orientation Information. -11 :30-12:30-·Memorial Chapel--Parent Information Session: \Academic Expectations\ -12:30·1 :45--Memorial Fisld House--President's Luncheon - 2:00·3 :00--Memorial Chapel--President's Convocation -3:00·4:00--Jackson's Garden (if raining, Hale House)--President's Reception -4:00·5:00--Social Sciences Bldg., Room 016·-financial Aid Meeting -4:00·5:00·-Hurnanities Bldg., Room 1 U)··Career Development Workshop - 4:00·5 :OO··Memorial Chapel--Parent Information Session: \Student Life\ -4:00·5:00--See Schedule--First Orientation Group Meetings -5:30·7:30--Hale House--Dinner: Groups 1-18 - 5:30-7:30--West College--Dinner: Groups 19-36 -7:30-8:30--Each Dormitory--Floor Meetings - 8: 30·?- -Each· Do~mitory • -Do~m Socials - 8:30·?--Hale House Courtyard--Social for Transfer Students SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 11 -9:00-11 :00--West College--Faculty and Student Advising Brunch -11 :30-12:30--Same locations as Sat., 4:00--2nd Orientation Group Meetings - 12:30-2:00--MemoriaUield House--Mandatory Meeting for Freshman Survey - 12:30-2:00--Banquet Room, Carnegie Hall--Special Meeting for Transfer Students - 2:00-3:00--Divisional Meetings--1 Humanities in Humanities 019, II Social Sciences in 55016, Ill Sciences in Old Chapel, IV Engineering in Butterfield 204 (the Alps) - 3:00-6:00--Aiexander Field--PICNIC - 7:00-8:00--Banquet Room, Carnegie Haii--JSO Hillel Reception - 7:00-8:00--Stage II, 3rd Floor Carnegie--Newman Club Reception for Catholic Students -7:00-8:00--4th Floor Lounge, Callnegie Hall--Campus Protestant Fellowship Reception - 8:00-9:00--Mamorial Chapel--Ecumenical Service - 9:00-12:00--Su~prise Social Event MONI)A Y, SEPTEMBER 12 -7:30-9:00--West College--Breakfast - 9:00-1 0:00--Departmental Meetings--First Session--See schedule for locations - 1 0:00· 11 :GO--Departmental Meetings--Second Session--See schedules for locations -10:00-11 :00•-Social Sciences Bldg., Room 016--Liberal Arts Meeting - 10:00-11 :GO--Butterfield 204--Health Professions Meeting -10:00-11 :00--S$014--Pre-Law Soc:iety Meeting - 10:00-11 :00--Bailey Hall205--lnstitute of Administration & Management Meeting -11 :00-12:00--Faculty Offices--Academic Advising Meeting for Transfer Students--See Orientation Packets. Also at 1 :00-2:00 - 11 :00-12:00-·to be announced--Student Services Orientation (Tour) - 12:00-1 :30--West College--Lunch -1 :00-5:00-·Aiumni Gym--Registration for Transfer Students -1 :00-5:00--Faculty Offi~es--Academic Advising Meetings-.See Orientation Packets - 4:00-5:30--President's House--President's Reception: Groups 1-9, 19·27 -5:30-7 :00--West College--Dinner · - 5:30-7:00--Dean of Student's Residence--Dinner for Transfer Students -7:00-8:00--Same locations as Sat., 4:00·-lrd Orientation Group Meetings - 8:00-9:00--Memorial Chapel--Mandatory Meeting for all new students -9:00-10:30--Cabaret Room, Carnegie Hall--Cabaret: Groups 7-12 - 9:00-11:00--Dutch Hollow Pub--Coffeehouse: Groups 13·18, 31-36 -1 0:30-12:00--Cabaret Room, Carnegie Hall--Cabaret: Groups 19·24 \\\\9:00-11 :OO--SS016--Movies: ''A Union of People\ and \The Way We Were\ TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13 -7:30-9:00--West College--Breakfast - 8:00·12:00--Fcu:ulty Offices--A~ademic Advising Meetings--See Orientation Packets - 8:40-12:00·-Aiumni Gym--Registration: by Group -9:30-1 0:30--Career Development Center--Career Development Workshop for Transfer Students--First Session - 1 0:30·11 :30--Career Development Center--Career Development Workshop for Transfer Students--Second Session -11 :30·1 :00--West College--Lunch -1 :00·5:00--Aiumni Gym--Registration: by Group - 5:00-7:00-·West College and Hale House--Dinner--regular meal plan begins - 8:00·9:00-·President's House--President's Reception: Groups 1 0·18, 28·36 - 8:00-9:30-·Cabaret Room, Carnegie Hall--Cabaret: Groups 1·6 - 8:00·1 0:00--55016-·Movies: \A Union of People\ and ''The Way We Were\ - 9:30·11 :00--Cal»aret Room, Carnegie Hall--Cabaret: Groups 25-30 WEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER 14 CLASSES BEGIN Slang •.. Continued from page 4 campus, boasting such famous dancing and gathering at- tractions as Rafters, Barclay's, Metro and several other musts for U.C. students to visit once .. . and then again . . . and again! SYN: Going North Townies n. (from Olde English term \Townspeople\) ' 1. See Doids 2. Referring to the . natives of any city with as much to offer as our beloved hometown of Schenectady. Trashed adj. 1. A state of existence incurred upon oneself through the excessive consumption of alcoholic or other mind altering substances. To be overheard in conversations most frequently on Wednesday and M.onday mornings. 2. SYN: WASTED; PLASTERED; HAMMERED We're There An expression indicating that one has arrived at his-her preplanned point of destination . . . not necessarily a place but more often a state of mind; eg: Person No.1: \Let's go to Toga and get trashed! \; Person No. 2: \Hey We're There!\ One last little unwritten rule that is passed down to incoming freshman every year at Union: \You never, ever call frater- nities 'Frats' ... after all, you wouldn't call your country a . . . ! \ A Royal Welcome Welcome to Union College- You are the !89th freshman class to arrive here. Your ability and your desire for education have brought you. Now the burden for that education rests -lightly enough I hope - on you. I assure you, there are many who are eager and able to g-uide you. You will face many questions. The richness and the significance of your questions will derive in part from the degree to which you are involved with making Union your college. Faculty members, fellow students, administrators in various offices, all will be available to help you as you engage the complex process of living and learning in a residential college. Academic rigor will be a part of your daily life. Be firm in your com- mitment to your ewn education, you will find. yourself in touch with many aspects of the college. Never will you have a better opportunity to learn to take charge of your education than you have before you. Work at it. I welcome you and wish you the best. President Morris Sincerely, JohnS. Morris President Transfers Greeted A Note to the Transfers: As members of the ·Transfer sub-committee, we hope we have succeeded in scheduling activities that will appeal to your specific needs. We have integrated the transfers into the incoming class as well as trying to segregate you so that you can meet a variety of people in the beginning days at UNION. We believe that each activity is important, whether it is socially or academically oriented, so please make the most of your Orientation. Orientation for transfers is not as much an orientation to college life, but more an in- troduction to Union and what it has to offer to you. Your par- ticipation in the orientation activities will make you fee\ a part of Union right from the start as well as give you a chance to meet other new students and upperclassmen. Our theme this fall is \Discover Union. A Tradition of Excellence.\ With this in mind, we hope that you will explore what is offered and strive to keep the reputation of Excellence. Your stay at Union is shory:r than that of the in- coming freshmen, so start now and while you are enjoying Orientation, DISCOVER UNION!! Have a great orientation and we look forward to meeting you soon. June Glaser '84 Peter Ruggiero '84 Transfer Subacommittee members . . . . ~- . ' . . . . : ' ~ . ~ . ~ . You are Cordially Invited to Become Part of a Tradition of Excellence CONCORDIENS/S can offer new students positions in any aspect of newspaper production: REPORTING PHOTOGRAPHY COPY EDITING LAYOUT BUSINESS We ~re always /o()king for new ideas and new talent! (orne TO the ClUb I:.XPO Meet the Editors- Ask Questions- En lOY Refreshments We Look Forward to Seeing You There! Discover the magic of good books THE OPEN DOOR 128 ~ 1 36 Jay Street Downtown Schenec.tody J46-2719 Books • Gifts • Posters • Pottery by Rose Catalano

Page6 CONCORDIENS/S, September /0, 1983 Sherlock at Union !- Ready to Score 1 ByJ.G. Sherlock Holmes arrived today at Union ·College and he is excited to be a part of the Class of '87. As the rest of the in· coming class, Mr. Hobnes will strive to continue with the ''Tradition of Excellence.\ Mr. H.obnes, a graduate of a small prep school in southern Connecticut, hopes to be able to · keep a low profile on campus. 1987\ RADIO WRUC MEETING MON. 9-19 9:00PM CARNEGIE HALL BE THERE. He has decided to give up smoking his p!pe, and will wear his hat and coat on special occasions only. . As a resident student living on 4th floor West, Sherlock hopes that his new roommate will be able to substitute for his part- ner, WatfiQn, who matriculated this fall at Wesleyan. The first mystery Holmes i10pes to solve is how students can remove books ·from the Schaffer Library without checking them out. The magnetic detection .system, ·harmful to those wearing pacemakers, is supposed to be foolproof. The administrators, especially Ms. Ruth Anne Evans, is sure that- the bc>ok count is dropping every term: This problem costs the school hundreds of dollars and ab- solutely must be stopped. Mr. Hobnes has expressed a sincere · interest in solving this problem. Sherley, as he wants to be called by his classmates, will combine his work with bis studies in his major, Com- parative Communist studies. JEWELRY. REP AIR ~~~T..~!~il'.I~'J:~:tl<!itl'iT.i~'itl'~J')~~·;o-~.-':':l~'ill\':';i~'~;:rj~\':llf~~ I TIME CENTER·· j~!£~ 428 State St. Three Doors From Proctors Downtown Schenectady, (518) 374-0183 We're old enough to know better. LUM FUNG RESTAURANT, 107 BROADWAY (Canal Square) ·Schenectady, NY Tel. 393-5429 Open Mon.-Sat. 11:30-9:30 \Come and have the finest Chinese food in the area\ All Union Students get one ( 1 ) FREE Glass of beer with dinners (nights only) THE INNERCIRCLE Welcomes Michael Deluke .~---------------~~~---, With This Coupon Receive $3.00 off on Cut and Blowdry and 20% off Perms Good for aU Union College Students ----------~----~----~--~ He believes this work-study combination will 'lead to a reqarding job offer upon fulfilling his gradua.tion requirements. Another problem at Union is an unusual problem which m~ be solved. This mild case of vandalism is covering the face. of Union. Although it is a tradition to paint the Idol and adorn it with Greek letters,·. there is no reason to paint the rest of the campus. It is not unusual to see painted hand prints and footprints on the grass, sidewalks, or other various locations, like the columns in Library Plaza. It is with greatest effort the Sherlock ·will investigate this mystery. So be careful where you leave your handprints. Throughout the year, Mr. Hobnes will be trying to·recover various articles of value to the proper fraternity or sorority. Composites and other crested treasures have my:steriously disappeared from these Greek houses. Under the supervision oftheGreek Search Committee, Mr. Holmes will inspect each Greek house to see if he can locate missing items. So, don't be surprised if while at a fraternity party, a stranger starts searching around and snooping into the house's most secret places. Lastly, Sherlock hopes he will be treated like any other new student. Don't be paranoid, don't begin to worry, but Sherlock Holmes is just trying to Discover Union... you'll be seeing him around!!! . ; . ., By TWO BEAUTIFUL, AVAILABLE BLONDES You may ~ave }leard rumors about the Umon College fQotbaU team, perhaps because of their passing, running, ;md tackling abilities. Having been here a week earlier than most other students, and having eaten three meals a day with these hunks, we feel that we can access both their strong and stronger points.· . Though we arrived early, the football team was here even earlier to get into condition. As far as we can see, the hard work has paid off and the· team is in awesome shape. Our well. trained ~yes also lead us to believe that the tight ends look the best. We followed the team out to the field to observe a practice session. Be-foreplay com· mences, the players seem to · have a ritual o.f wann Up and stretching exercis~s. With fellow players shouting en,. couragemeht, and coache!! yelling \good hands!\ \gQ~ eyes!\ and \nice catch·! \ .the team really works hard. There is a certain skill and finesse to this contact sport. It is obviot.is that the team spirit Is a ·large part of football success,. and goal scoring. We have not had enough contact with the team to fully evaluate their passiilg ability, as they have been working hard and going to bed early. Last year's record, however, shows us that they have a keen ability to make and complete passes with very few interceptions or interruptions. In addition, there also seems to be. a limited amount of fumbling. _ In all, as far as vve can see, the team looks pretty good this year. As far as we're con- cerned, it's not whether we win or lose, but how we play the game!! .. 1!11· ~ Posters • Godiva Chocolates Kites • Teddy Bears 10% off with Union ID thru Sept. · OpetllO:J0-5;30. Thurs. to8:30 164 Jay street Schenectady, New York.12305 Photle 518-374,2803 ANOREXIA NERVOSA and ·BULIMIA Self-Help Group If you ever need to talk to be comforted, or reassured, to be understood ... Please come . . . . your secrets are safe And our door is always Open. We are a II here for each other Come sha·re a laugh a smile aery ora dream And gain.guidance and encouragement. And strength. We meet the first and third Mondays of every monfh, from 7-9 p.m. at the Union College Silliman H~U basement conference room. We are a free and confidential self·help group for peaple dealmg with Anorexia or Bul.imia. Friends and family members are also welcome. For . more information please contact Julie,355-8679 or Ga.il George, 434·4561. Mon .. Sept. 19th topic-·\ Physiology of Panic\ how to deal with it\ to be led by Nan Windmuller Certified Clinical Dietetic Technician - . Find out why all the Union -Women are talking about ... TheShoppe A Fun boutique featuring neat clothes, jewelry, lingerie, etc e • 0 LOCATED IN SMITH ST. PROMENADE /O.F CANAL SQUARE 15o/o ~Discount with this ad Open 10-9 Mon.-Fri. 10-5 sat. (518) 370-4288

en,. ~aches \go~ \ the There ~sse to bviou's ·large ~. and nough fUlly bility, hard. Last or there see, con- e win y the :· 1. CONCORDIENSIS, September 10, 1983 I Page7 CAMPUS NEWS PERSONALS Elizabeth- You are such an establishment freak! Who'.s Larry? Wanted: .One hunk football pl~yer ;for Nat. · Robin . . . Em()tions, emotions, emotions; Emotjonal rescue! Tom.,.-Coffee stunts your growth!· / Hey Steve-..:The more soul, the better you like it . .. . Right? Liz.,-Is it vodka or is it water? Watching you drink .it''S hard to tell! Quick sips sink ships. Susi~How's the erotic sheet coming? Rah-Love your nightgown. To all participants in the Sick Saturday Night: Showings ·Of the Canarsie Bop will be at my · conven!ence, only if I can stand. Codfish-Welcome to Union! Hope you're as . serious about partying as your sister.is. Love, Bo Pseudo Jock: If lying sprawled out, half naked in bed is the thing to do, maybe you can give me some private lessons. Gabriele- Your Lean Cuisine and crapping pup are a stretch, but int, OK? Wheezer-I've enjQyed every minute, and I'm lobking for- ward to many sick times with you. Love, your partner in the Party Room · Lar.ry T, (King)- I don't know who's more attractive, 'you or Rodney. I do know that you're a great partying guy, you NJB! . Union wemen: RUSHRUSHRUSHRUSH - RUSH!! O.A. 'sKeep up the good work. Love, your slave drivers To all the SICKOS of University Pl.- Terrible block. All I want to know is who's calling ~he first Zoo? WRUC ... 89.7 ... USTEN. Pete-Meet any d,ogs who like you for Who you are yet? Schema-Fall is here! Love those sweaters (and my Macy's charge card).. OC: Should stand for Overly Crazy. TPL&c-: We'llmissPH,.FF and VW but we'll still have a great time! Us DB's survive! - MAV S.W.-Heard you are very fast and come with references! Steve-Make it . ·hurt SO GOOD!!! Amy and Lisa, Road trip to Villanov.a! ! ! ! ! Girls get your silk blouses and .linen skirts ready. Freshmen, Go GDI! ! ! ! C.J.~You're the bezants!!! \ .. - ~ -;; - J-Bug-I still don't like you. Sanford's quote of the day, ''Union is not conducive to virginity.\ To:' Betty Biggs, Cindy Bouck, Nancy Cooper, Catherine D' Amat(), Ruth Anne Evans, John Hauser, Joan Hebert, Dawn Kaler, Alice Litts, Lorraine Marra, Pat Matteo, Alan and Phyllis Nelson, Lucille Paludi, Ted Sch· warz, Audrey Snowden, Mary Van Loan, Chuck and .Janet Weick, Betty Wemple, Diane Winkler, as well as all my fdends from ,Lamont House- Thanks very much for a splendid farewell party. My years at Union were tremen- dously rewarding and I'll miss being there with you., May God bless you always. -Paul Rieschick To everyone on the O.C. : Thanks for all of your hard work! -J.A. and D.L. B.C. I Love Your Backside. J .S. You have a hMd growing out of your chest. Sara- The OC's WD Mom & Dad-You did a great job. We love you! ! The Com- mittee Watch for 87 minutes. Coming Sunday, September 11th. Five Fat Fickle Females Sitting Sipping Scotch. Rich-Keep that leaf turned over! Tom-Maybe you can look like that too, when you .grow up. Peter-Keep eating those pumpernickel bagels. Cindy-Watch wherejhow you eat those bananas. DISGOVER UNION-A Tradition of Excellence! ! ! ! ! ! he Dutch Hollow Pub Welcomes the Classes of: 1984 1985 1986 1987 «. 0 <· Breakfast, ~Lunch and Dinner Plus- A mixed drink bar and frequent live entertainment Watch the transfiguration! Just as you will make your tra.nsiti·on from high school graduate to suave, sophisticated Unionite . . . the Pub will under its own metamorphosis right before your very eyes! We'll be featuring· construction site specials and hold a week of transforma~tion destinies and giveaways in October. Check for further information and in the Union College Food Service Forecast avai I able in dining areas on campus. Sherlock Holmes comes to Union. June-You got a good CLUE To the Class of '87.....Get into ORIENTATION-Discover the Tradition! · Good Luck orientation groups, May the best team WIN. Little Sam's 2fers M-F 4-7 PM Freslunen: Good luck on the Hyst.erical rally Beware CHET! The Fresh- men are upon you. TRADITION-::-Let's get back to the WAY WE WERE Best wishes class of '84, Let's Do It Up Right! n ! Good Luck to the Gridders against St. Lawrence! ! ! Cheerleader.s-Good Luck and make me Proud! ! SW Robin, Happy 21st Birthday from the loving. OC. Freslunen: GO GREEK! Nat-Have you touched anything male-! hope he is at least 13. Who's Who •.. Continued from page 2 freshmen as they try to fill their insatiable appetites with the delectable cuisine provided by the Union College Food Service. 4. Your friendly Conduct Committee member. It is always a good idea to get on good terms with one or more members of this infamous corrunittee. Should you find yourself in violation of one of the many sections of the Student Conduct Code, these virtuous, ethical students have been known to accept hefty bribes. 5. Men ·of selected frater- nities. To the benefit of fresh- men men, bonds formed with certain members of our Greek community can result in in- Lisa-Good Luck with the big green thing (alias No.-) Wish melt1Ck with the real one. NAT GRUNT FOOD GRUNT Welcome Back FFR 10·0: Wonder why Cape Codders and the landing at Smith House seem to go together so well. I'm no Floozy- I need sheets! Robin:Thanks for always being there when I need you. Love, Me Ness, Lynn, Laura, Cheryl, Susie, We'.re not going to .be sick at all this year. Let's make senior year the best. Loye and kisses, Cindy and Robin (P.S. It didn't upset us to write this.) Fran and Susie-Consider this an invitation to mem- bership in our sick society. We know you have what it takes. Love, US I'm no Floozy- I never drink backwash either! June-Always remember to keep your legs crossed Hal bert- The lions didn't bite, you were right! numerable opportunities for transportation to (and from) Skidmore College, where there are many beautiful and in- telligent women. Union women, don't despair though. These- same men will provide you with the much coveted invitation to your first semiformal cocktail party. And there you have it-the insider's guide to Union's im- portant people. Although these individuals can help keep many freshmen happy, . don't stop here. Union is a place filled with wonderful people, and only by getting involved and meeting them Will you truly live the ''Union Experience.'' Whole f'oods • Herbs fine Coffees • Teas Low Prices on Staple Ora·ins • flours • fggs Mineral Waters 162 Jay Str~et • Schenectady • New York • 12J05 3 · Mon.·Sat 10·5:30 • T~urs.'ti119 • .(518)372·7580~ MOFFEn'S LIQUOR STORE 1505 VanVranken Ave.,. 346·0392 \Serving Union College Stude11ts Since 1937\ .--------------~-----------~ I .. Botticelli Wines 1 I Lambrusco•Bardollno•Soave•:Valpolicella I I . I 1 Save $2.00 1.51 reg. $4.99 $2.99 1 I limit 2 with coupon 1 ·L--------------------------~ Welcome Back Stude._nts! NYS Drinking Age is now 19. Picture ID Required

.. (/) .9- .s:::. D. >- 1.. Ill ~ >- .0 (/) .E 0 .c 0. PageS Football Sept. 17: Rochester, 1:30 \ 24: at Hobart, 2 Oct. 1: Albany, 7:30 \ 8: Colby, 1:30 (Homecoming) '' 15: at RPI, 1:30 \ 22: at Trinity, 1:30 \ 29: Williams, 1 :~0 Nov. 5: at Middlebury, 1:30 '' 12: Hamilton, 1:30 Men's Soccer Sept. 16: St. Lawrence, 3:30 \ 21: at Cortland, 7 \ 24: West Point, 2 '' 28: Hamilton, 3:30 Oct. 1: at Binghamton, 2 \ 5: at Albany, 3:30 '' 7: Alumni Game, 8 \ 10: Kings Point, 3 \ 15: at RPI, 11 '' 19: Colgate, 3 \ 22: Plattsburgh, 2 \ 26: Skidmore, 3 '' 28: at Rochester, 7 \ 31: at Vassar, 2:30 Nov. 2: at Siena, 2:30 Women's Soccer Sept. 27: Siena, 3:30 Oct. 4: at RPI, 3:30 \ 6: at Siena, 4 '' 8: Hamilton, 10 \ 10: at Williams, 4 '' 12: Colgate, 3:30 \ 15: at Skidmore, 1 \ 17: RPI, 7 , CQNCORDIENSJS, September 10, 1983 \ \ ,., \ 19: at S. Vermont, 3:30 25: at LeMoyne, 3:30 28: at Vas~ar, 3:30 .31: Albany, 7:30 Cross Country Oct. ·1: at Middlebury, 1 . '' 8: at HamHton; Colgate, Utica, 2 \ 15: at RPI, noon \ 22: at Capital District . · . Meet, noon '' 29: at Albany Invitational, New York State Women's Meet •• 31: at IC4A for Men Nov. 5: at State Meet for Men, ECAC Meet for Women \ 12: at NCAA Qualifying Meet for Men Field Hockey Sept. 19: at RPl, 3:30 '' 21: Rus~ell Sage, 7 •• 23: at Skidmore, 3:30 \ 27: a.t Hamilton, 3:30 •·• 30: Rochester, 7 Oct. 1: 'Wells, 1 \ 3: Middlebury, 3 \ 5: Oneonta, 3:30 \ 8: Alumni Game, 5 \ 10: at Vassar, 3:30 \ 12: at Williams, 3:30 \ 15: Siena, 11 \ 17: Hartwick, 3:30 \ 21: Potsdam, 6:30 \ 22: Manhattanville, 4:'30 'fool.leyball Sept. 19: at Skidmore,. 7 ';. 21: West Point, 4 '' 28: Vassar, New Paltz~ 6 Ott. 4: at Siena, 7 \ 6: Willia.ms, North Adams, 6 '· 8: Pace, 11 '' 11: Albany, 7 \ 13: at Rochester, LeMoyne, 6 \ 19: Siena, 7 \ 21-22: at Vassar Tournament '' 26: at Albany, Russell Sage,6 · '' 28-29: at Binghamton Tournament Nov. 3: Russell Sage, \ Oneonta 5: at Albany Tournament Women's Tennis Sept. 21: Colgate, 3:30 \ 23: at Skidmore, 3:30 \ 27: at Hamilton, 3:30 · \ 28: Albany, 3:30 \ . 30: Russell Sage, 3:30 Oct. 3: Middlebury, 3 \ 5: Oneonta, 3:30 \ 6: at RPI, 3:30 \ 8: West Point, 11 ''' 10: at Vassar, 3:30 '' 12: at Williams, 4 \ 15: Siena, 11 \· 17: Hartwick, 3:30 \ 21-22: at State

\' 0. .c a. Page 8 Football Sept. 17: Rochester, 1:30 \ 24: at Hobart, 2 Oct. 1: Albany, 7:30 \ 8: Colby, 1:30 (Homecoming) \ 15: at RPI, 1:30 \ 22: at Trinity, 1:30 \ 29: \W~illiams 1:30 Nov. 5: at Middlebury, 1:30 \ 12: Hamilton, 1:30 Men's Soccer Sept. 16: St. Lawrence, 3:30 '' 21: at Cortland, 7 '' 24: West Point, 2 \ 28: Hamilton, 3:30 Oct. 1: at Binghamton, 2 \ 5: at Albany, 3:30 \ 7: Alumni Game, 8 \ 10: Kings Point, 3 \ 15: at RPI, 11 \ 19: Colgate, 3 \ 22: Plattsburgh, 2 \ 26: Skidmore, 3 \ 28: at Rochester, 7 \ 31: atVassar,2:30 Nov. 2: at Siena, 2:30 Women's Soccer Sept. 27: Siena, 3:30 Oct. 4: at RPI, 3:30 '' 6: at Siena, 4 \ 8: Hamilton, 10 \ 10: at Williams, 4 \ 12: Colgate, 3:30 \ 15: at Skidmore, 1 \ 17: RPI, 7 CONCORDIENS/S, September 10, 1983 .. \ .. , 19: atS. Vermont, 3:30 25: at LeMoyne, 3:30 28: at Vassar, 3:30 31: Albany, 7:30 Cross Country Oct. 1: at Middlebury, 1 '' 8: at Hamilton, Colgate, Utica, 2 \ 15: at RPI, noon \ 22: at Capital District Meet, noon '' 29: at Albany Invitational, New York State Women's Meet \ 31: at IC4A for Men Nov. 5: at State Meet for Men, ECAC Meet for Women \ 12: at NCAA Qualifying Meet for Men Field Hockey Sept. 19: at RPI, 3:30 '' 21: Russell Sage, 7 \ 23: at Skidmore, 3:30 \ 27: at H-amilton, 3:30 '' 30: Rochester, 7 Oct. 1: Wells, 1 \ 3: Middlebury, 3 \ 5: Oneonta, 3:30 \ 8: Alumni Game, 5 \ 10: at Vassar, 3:30 \ 12: at Williams, 3:30 \ 15: Siena, 11 \ 17: Hartwick, 3:30 \ 21: Potsdam, 6:30 \ 22: Manhattanville, 4:30 Volleyball Sept. 19: at Skidmore, 7 \ 21: West Point, 4 \ 28: Vassar, New Paltz, 6 Oct. 4: at Siena, 7 \ 6: Williams, North Adams, 6 ,., 8: Pace, 11 \ 11: Albany, 7 \ 13: at Rochester, LeMoyne, 6 \ 19: Siena, 7 \ 21-22: at Vassar Tournament \ 26: at Albany, Russell Sage,6 \ 28-29: at Binghamton Tournament Nov. 3: Russell Sage, \ Oneonta 5: at Albany Tournament Women's Tennis Sept. 21: Colgate, 3:30 \ 23: at Skidmore, 3:30 \ 27: at Hamilton, 3:30 · \ 28: Albany, 3:30 \ 30: Russell Sage, 3:30 Oct. 3: Middlebury, 3 \ 5: Oneonta, 3:30 \ 6: at RPI, 3:30 \ 8: West Point, 11 \ 10: at Vassar, 3:30 \ 12: at Williams, 4 \ 15: Siena, 11 \ 17: Hartwick, 3:30 \ 21-22: at State Tournament '~·· .. .-. 11 :I ' .

Ill m 01 .r:. u Ill c:: .c 0:. m 0 >-· .c .s 0 .r:. 0. • l)tl) c: 7t.{ S(Jec: Col { CXIJt' No. 2 York September 22, 1983 --~------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Pub Receives Facellft By JAY 'BARUCH News Editor Jan Gray stated that the· pub will be changed from an at- mosphere that was \primarily The beginning of the fall .tenn dark and dank to one that is full has been m.arked by the theme of light.\ To insure that the pub of cosmetic :improvement. In will be better lighted, the addition to the construction lighting will be improved and being done in Davidson, Fox the shutters will be taken down and· the Student Activities of- to provide more sunUght. The fi<:e, the pub has also sue- wood on the walls will also be cmnbed to change. The plans changed to a wood pine which for this renovation have been can be easily cleaned. in the works since 1 DireCtor In addition to giving . a of F.ood Se · · · brighter atmosphere, the stated th.a . . upgrading will result in a more - constraints of sununer bookings in the pub which made it im· possible to start renovating in the summer. She also stated that the work being done will be finb~d ~ time fur homecoming. the ren @ modern, comfortable setting to Renovations in .the P·ub aJJ4 br\ 1- , at, relax and study. CW!hions F ,, 1 A -· tm- ts a 7 · be placed along the win- One change which might not have been noticed in addition to the physical cosmetic change of the interior decor is that the type of service has been altered slightly. During the summer, surveys were sent out by Food Service inquiring the type· of service preferred by the students, faculty, and ad- ministration. They received eight hundred responses, of which seven hundred were from students. The results were as follows: 62.2 percent wanted an informal restaurant, 45.6 percent wanted a cafe, 42.7 percent wanted a grocery-type place, and 56.2 percent wanted a deli. In establishing an informal restaurant, Food Service wanted to be able to assure that students and professors eating at the pub for lunch could get in and out in the least amoWlt of time. .. acu ty . ppotn . . en : r- lU ws in the larger of the pub's r- <\.) o rooms. Also, tall bar tables N :e--· w· ·. F: a.c·e··s. o. n· · .. C.am :~ .. cil' !:' :m-.J~~d~ . . ~U~ -v refurbishing will be com- The following have been named to the faculty of Union College:. Chemistry: Lawrence McGahey, assistant professor. McGahey is a graduate of the University of Notre Dame, and earned M.S. and Ph.D~ degrees in chemistry at the U Diversity of California, Berkeley. He .has taught at both universiti~s. Civil Engineering: Mark Dobday, visiting iristructor. A 1976 graduate of Union, Dobday ; earned an M.A, froxn Temple University where he has taught since 1978. Economics: Harold Fried, visiting assistant professor. Fried graduated · from the University o.f Michigan, and holds a Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina. He has taught at North Carolina State University and Tulane University. . David L. Schaffer, instructor. A graduate of Swarthmore College, Schaffer is completing a Ph.D. at MIT. He has taught at both Swarthmore and MIT, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science: K. H. Gurubasavaraj, assistant professor. Gurubasavaraj has taught at aDd holds degrees from the Unive,rsity of Mysore and the University of Bangalore in India. He is completing work on a Ph.D. at the University of . Nebraska-Lincoln. English: Anne Higgins, in- structor. A graduate of tbe University of Connecticut, Higgins holds an M.A. in English from McGill Univer- sity, an M.A. in French from the University of Massachusetts, and an M.A. in· Medieveal Studies from Yale University, where she is completing a Ph, D. She has taught at Yale, the University of Massachusetts, and the Universite de Bordeaux in France. Health Studies: Michael J. Belyea, visiting assistant professor and actirig director of the Health Studies Center. Belyea received B.A. and M.A. degrees from the University of North Dakota, and a Ph.D. from North Carolina State Univer- sity. He completed post· doctoral studies at the University of North Carolina. Belyea has taught at each of the above schools, has served as a consultant for the Institute of southern Studies in Chapel Hill, N.C., and worked as a research statistician at the North Dakota Department -of Health. History: Faye E. Dudden, visiting assistant professor . .A graduate of Cornell University 1 Dudden earned an M.A. ana. Ph.D. at the University of Rochester. In addition to those two scnools, she has taught at Cazenovia College arid the University of Miami. Andrew J. Dunar, visiting assistant professor. A graduate of Northwestern Pniversity, Dunar earned an M.A. from the- University of California, Los Angeles, and secondary teaching credentialS' from California State University, Northridge. · He earned his Ph.D. at the Uni'v~rsity of Southern California .. Ounar has taught _at the University .()f Southern California,· California State University, Bakersfield, and Manchester College in North Manchester, Ind. Mathematics: R. Michael Caf\jor, v-isiting assistant professor. Canjor received B.E. and M .. E. degrees at tlte University of Detroit, alld earned a Ph.D. in mathematics from the University of Michigan, where he worked. as a graduate teaching assistant. He also taught at St. Mary's College in Maryland. James M. Lysko, visiting · assistant professor. Lysko received M.S. and Ph.D. ·degrees from Warsaw University in Poland, and has taught at Warsaw University~ Kent State University, Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C., and the University of Delaware at Newark. Vetmuri Lakshmi Narayana Sarma, visiting professor. A graduate of Andhra University, Sarma received ·an M.Sc. at Banara$ Hindu University and a Ph.D. from the University of Rochester. He fonnerly taught at .those two universities, as well as at the State University of New York at BUffalo and at Union. Modern Languages: Camille Maria Conchita Qualtere, VI. • sitin __ g instructor. Qualtere ltas earned degrees and taught at R~ell Sage College and the State UniversitY of New York at Albany, ·where she is com- pleting a Ph.D. in Spanish literatnre. , Physies: Jonathan T. Ben, visiting assistant professor. A graduate of Hiram College, 'Ben received an M.S. and Ph.D. in physics from the University of . Michigan. He formerly tallgbt ~ A.. plemented by new comfortable at Wash~~~ .,CQIM.ltP.J\t chairs for the regular tables in College. ~- · the pub. John Baran D , ISiting This atmosphere will be instructor. A graduate of Siena further enhanced by the garnet College, Davis received an M.S. and clear stained glass that will ill phy&ics from Georgetown be installed over the bar. The Univers~ty, where he has served stained glass will be installed in as a teaching assistant. its frame so that it can easily be Seyfollah Maleki, visiting removed if and when the pub is assistant professor. Maleki has . gutted in favor of the new completed degrees and. taught student. union being planned. at the University of New These changes, as well as Orleans and at RPI. He taught others, like the new table cloths, atUnionduringthe winter term wm certainly brighten the of 198o-81. present surroundings. The Sociology: Stephen G. Lyng, question that is raised is why visiting assistant professor. the remodeling is being done Lyng receiveQ B.A., M.A., and now, and why was it not done Fh.D. degrees from the during the summer break. Jan University of Texas at Austin Gray · said that there were and has taught there since 1976. The solution decided upon by Food Service was to incorporate waiters and waitresses between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. for those wishing to order lunch. Jan Gray stated that the pub is - still open to those who want to \brown bag it\ andto those who want to either study or just hang out. ~he recommends that Continued on page 2 Orientation '83 Union's 1984 academic year began Sept. 14 with some 525 freshmen participating in orientation activities Sept. 10·13. The orientation program titled, \Discovering Union··A Tradition of Ex celience,'i included panel discussions, receptions, workshops and social events. College board scores for the incoming freshmen are generally in the top 12 percent nationally. Roughly 85 percent of these students are in the top one·f ifth of their secondary school class. Dean of Admissions Kenneth Nourse said 3,204 applications were received for this year's freshman class, and 1,249 were accepted. Roughly 80 percent of those students are in the top one- fifth of their secondary school class. Wornen comprise 40 percent of the incoming class, and New York State residents comprise 50 percent. Approximately .25 percent attended private schools, and 45 percent will receive some form offinancial aid. Mailroom Changes. Page3 Club Expo Page 13 Dutchmen Slaughter Page 20 . 0 ... ·a. Ill r:. 1/) > ... ... Ill ..J >- .c 0 - 0 .r:. 0.

' . \.··.·! I (I ~· I ~ ~ ~ ,, I' i' I! I· . ' :I I' :I ! . <ll l1l .2l ~ u ()> c ~ c. (() Cl >- .!l 0 .... 0 .r: c. CXIII, No. 2 Renovations in the Pub Faculty Appointments: l)ty) c__ 7\f spec Cc l ( September 22, 198·3 Pub Receives Facelift By JAY BARUCH News Editor Jan Gray stated tllat the pub will be changed from an at- mosphere that was \primarily The beginning of the fall term dark and dank to one that is full has been marked by the theme of light.\ To insure that the pub of cosmetic -improvement. In will be better lighted, the addition to the construction ligAting will be improved and being done in Davidson, Fox the shutters will be taken down and the Student Activities of· to provide more sunlight. The fice, the pub has also sue- wood on the walls wiU alsa be cumbed to change. The plans changed to a wood pine which for this renovation have been can be easily cleaned. in the works since 1 Director In addition to giving a of Food Se , brighter atmosphere, the stated tha upgrading will result in a more the ren @ .~· odern, comfortable setting to and br' ~ ', at, relax: and study. Cushions 0 l7 · be placed along the wina r- -,, ws in the larger of the pub's constraints of summer bookings in the pub which made it im- possible to start renovating in the summer. She also stated that the work being done will be finished in time for homecoming. ' r 4.> 1 1 t: o rooms. Also, tall bar tables New Faces On Ca m l.,~ .. s.JJ f7t ~~~~~n~&~i:~a'lf~d~~ ! U u .:()j refurbishing will be com- \ 1\\. A plemented by new comfortable One change which might not have been noticed in addition to the physical cosmetic change of the interior decor is that the type of service has been altered slightly. During the swnmer, surveys were sent out by Food Service inquiring the type· of service preferred by the students, faculty, and ad· ministration. They received eight hundred responses, of which seven hundred were from students. The results were as follows: 62.2 percent wanted an informal restaurant, 45.6 percent wanted a cafe, 42.7 percent wanted a grocery-type place, and 00.2 percent wanted a deli. In establishing an informal restaurant, Food Service wanted to be able to assure that students and professors eating at the pub for lunch could get in and out in the least amount of time. The following have been named to the faculty of Union College: Chemistry: Lawrence McGahey, assistant professor. McGahey is a graduate of the University of Notre Dame, and earned M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in chemistry at the University of California, Berkeley. He has taught at both universities. Civil Engineering: Mark Dobday, visiting instructor. A 1976 graduate of Union, Dobday earned an M.A. from Temple University where he has taught since 1978. Economics: Harold Fried, visiting assistant professor. Fried graduated · from the University of Michigan, and holds a Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina. He has taught at North Carolina State University and Tulane University. David L. Schaffer, instructor. A graduate of Swarthmore College, Schafft•r is complct ing a Ph.D. at MIT. He has taught at both Swarthmore and MIT. Electrical Engineering and Computer Science: K. H. Gurubasavaraj, assistant professor. Gurubasavaraj has taught at and holds degrees from the University of Mysore and the University of Bangalore in India. He is completing work on a Ph.D. at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. English: Anne Higgins, in- structor. A graduate of the University of Connecticut, Higgins holds an M.A. in English from McGill Univer- sity, an M.A. in French from the University of Massachusetts, and an M.A. in Medieveal Studies from Yale University, where she is completing a Ph.D. She has taught at Yale, the University of Massachusetts, and the Universite de Bordeaux in France. Health Studies: Michael J. Belyea, visiting assistant professor and acting director of the Health Studies Center. Belyea received B.A. and M.A. degrees from the University of North Dakota, and a Ph.D. from North Carolina State Univer- sity. He completed post- doctoral studies at the University of North Carolina. Belyea has taught at each of the above schools, has .served as a consultant for the Institute of Southern Studies in Chapel Hill, N.C., and worked as a research statistician at the North Dakota Department of Health. History: Faye E. Dudden, visiting assistant professor. A graduate of Cornell University, Dudden earned ail M.A. and Ph.D. at the University of Rochester. In addition to those two schools, she has taught at Cazenovia College and the University of Miami. Andrew J. Dunar, visiting assistant professor. A graduate of Northwestern University, Dunar earned an M.A. from the University of California, Los Angeles, and secondary teaching credentials'' from California State University, Northridge.· He earned his Ph.D. at the University of Southern California .. Dunar has taught at the University of Southern California, California State University, Bakersfield, and Manchester College in North Manchester, Ind. Mathematics: R. Michael Canjor, visiting assistant professor. Canjor received B.E. and M.E degrees at the Universitv of DPtroit, and earned a Ph.D. in mathematics from the University of Michigan, where he worked as a graduate teaching assistant. He e~,lso taught at St. Mary's College in Maryland. James M. Lysko, visiting assistant professor. Lysko received M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Warsaw University in Poland, and has taught at Warsaw University, Kent State University, Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C., and the University of Delaware at Newark. Vermuri Lakshmi Narayana Sanna, visiting professor. A graduate of And.hra University, Sanna received an M.Sc. at Banaras Hindu University and a Ph.D. from the University of Rochester. He formerly taught at those two universities, as well as at the State University of New York at Buffalo and at Union. Modem Languages: Camille Maria Conchita Qualtere, visiting instructor. Qualtere has earned degrees and taught at Russell Sage College and the State University of New York at Albany, where she is com- pleting a Ph.D. in Spanish literature. , Physics: Jonathan T. Bell, visiting assistant professor. A graduate of Hiram College, Bell received an M.S. and Ph.D. in physics from the University of Michigan. He formerly taught at Wash~:a~ .CQIJi8.1tlil~Y; chairs for the regular tables in College. ~~~-:.TV .:2-- the pub. John Baran Davis, -\'VIsiting This atmosphere will be instructor. A graduate of Siena further enhanced by the garnet College, Davis received an M.S. and clear stained glass that will in physics from Georgetown be installed over the bar. The University, where he has served stained glass will be installed in as a teaching assistant. its frame so that it can easily be Seyfollah Maleki, visiting removed if and when the pub is assistant professor. Maleki has gutted in favor of the new completed degrees and taught student union being planned. at the University of New These changes, as well as Orleans and at RPI. He taught others, like the new table cloths, at Union during the winter tenn will certainly brighten the of 198()-81. present surroundings. The Sociology: Stephen G. Lyng, question that is raised is why visiting assistant professor. the remodeling is being done Lyng received B.A., M.A., and now, and why was it not done Ph.D. degrees from the during the summer break. Jan University of Texas at Austin Gray said that there were and has taught there since 1976. The solution decided upon by Food Service was to incorporate waiters and waitresses between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. for those wishing to order lunch. Jan Gray stated that the pub is • still open to those who want to \brown bag it\ and to those who want to either study or just hang out. She recommends that Continued on page 2 Orientation '83 \' ~~ Union's 1984 academic year began Sept. 14 with some 525 freshmen participating in orientation activities Sept. 10-13. The orientation program Htled, \Discovering Union··A Tradition of Ex· cellence,\ included panel discussions, receptions, workshops and social events. College board scores for the incoming freshmen are generally in the top 12 percent nationally. Roughly 85 percent of these students are in the top one-fifth of their secondary school class. Dean of Admissions Kenneth Nourse said 3,204 applications were received for this year's freshman class, and 1,249 were accepted. Roughly 80 percent of those students are in the top one- fifth of their secondary school class. Women comprise 40 percent of the incoming class, and New York State residents comprisP so percent. Approximately 25 percent attended private schools, and 45 percent will rE>ceive some form of financial aid. Mailroom Changes Page3 Club Expo Page 13 Dutchmen Slaughter Page 20 0 .... c. 10 .r: V'l >- .... .... Ill _J >- .0 0 .... 0 .r: c.

f'oge 1 CONCORD/ENSIS, SeptemiJe, 12, 1983 Food· Service Innovations Finance Guidelines Set Continued from page 1 between 11:30 and 1:30, students bringing their own lunch eat in the banquet room to help facilitate the lunch time rush. Jan Gray stated that another measure taken to expedite lunch time is to limit the menu. She mentioned that a bulk of what everybody ~ats is on the limited menu. If a person desires something from the grill, It could probably be found at the skeller. Jan Gray said that she is merely asking for \patience and latitude\ from the students regarding the new limited menu and the lunch time between 11:30 and 1:30, \We still are working solely for the students.\ She stated that opinions on the meals a day, Monday thru Friday, every week. But Jan Gray said that as a ''gesture of good faith, we wU1 exchange this semester (Fall, 1983 only) the 10-meal Monday tbru Friday meal card for an any-10 meal card wit.h no additional cost to the cardholder. The 19 and 14 meal plans will remain the same. If a student wants to change to an any-meal 1()-meal , · plan next term, it will be more expensive.\ The reason why the plari will ·a> be m9re expensive is that the ,2 price of the plan will be o. calculated assuming that the o student will miss no meals. ~ Normally, when a price is set o for a meal plan, Food Service ~ does not expect a student to a make every meal on his respective plan. This is referred By STEVE PJRAINO This summer, senior Ben Hecksher compiled a finance handbook for the Union College- Ben Heckscher: Chairman .@f Finance committee student 'government. This infonnation. Nobodyhaddoneit comp.-ehensive listlllg con- before me, and hopefully it will taining student budgets, make tb~ngs run more departments and many CJther .smoothly.'' Heckscher bas categories is unprecedented found. working as chairman of and should prove to be vital the Finance Committee both during the school year~ challenging and rewarding. As Heckscher, an electrical · an electrical engineering engineering major from- major, Heckscher has not taken Swarthmore, Pennsylvmia,,has any accoWlting or economics' been active in many ,e:x- courses. But through his work tracurriculat activities during on the Finance Committee, he his four years at Uniom; Be is has learned a substantial the chairman of the Fillance amount of information about Committee as well as being a businesss, manag-ement, member of the Student Forum. finance a,nd budgeting, ·on !his In the past, he was al$o involved own. He also takes pride in the with the Film Coxnl::nlttee, work he has done this summer. Mountebanks and the -Curling one of Heckscher's main Club. putPQSes in writing the hand~ None of Heckscher's previous . book is _to make sure that the accomplishments equal the student activity funds stay in effort he put forth this past the \black.\ Each student pays summer. While some were at $38 ,per terril ($114 per year) the shore or traveling, towards student activities. If Heckscher was on ca~npils these funds were ever to run in compiling his book. He sl)ent 160 the \red Heckscher fears that hours on the handbook Cllld lle \the college would absorb the was not paid for his effort. funds and that the students -According to Heckscller,. '\I would lose their control of the just tied up many loose bits of .budget.\ • .service will be welcome. If the percentage of the people welcoming the table service is small, they will not be adverse to change. \Everything is up to the people. We can't be and do everything. It is difficult to have fast .food and a huge menu, especially when there are 180 people between 12 and 1 p.m. We can normally get people out in 30 minutes with a waitress. We want to,give customers what they want in a pleasant set- ting.\ to as the missing meal factor, and it is taken from the mean of the national average at colleges all over the country. This is one reason that Jan Gray stated as the reason why the meal plan allotment of $2.50 for lunch and $3.50 for dinner at the skeller wasn't raised, although prices in the skeller have increased. The other reason is that she cited that there has been fratJdulent Use of the meal card. F.or example, people have bought food for other people not on the meal plan if their own allotment has not been filled. Union Receives Grants In addition to the pub, im- provements are also being done in the skeller. The broken pews will be replaced and the tables will be replaced, although the table tops will remain. In ad- dition, the floor drain and the floor will be replaced. One aspect of meals a~o under change regards the 10 meal plan. Formerly, a student on the 10 meal plan ate two If anyone wishes to change their 10 meal plan to an any-10 meal plan they can do so at Food Service on second floor, Carnegie, between 10-12 and 1-3 p.m. \There are no restrictions, we're just going back to the way it was.\ Let us be your \Total Salon\ By DOUG LANDON Editor-in-Chief Several grants have . been awarded to Union and members of its faculty during the summer recess. Grants such as these play a major ·role in funding professor research and .physical improvements at private colleges and universities. 345 area businesses have contributed over $160,000 in tlle recently completed annual business campaign in support of Union College. Campaign chairman Wallace M. Campbell noted that this marks the eleventh consecutive year for Haircut I Design Perms Colour Waxing Make-Up Body Wraps Facials Nail Lengthening --------1 Gooding Skin Systems 374-0736' 322 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 I increased support to the College, as well as establisrung a new record number ~f con- tributors. Campbell, president of Northeast Savings, said \I was delighted to have been able to chair the past two campaigns and am proud of .the gener()US support the college receives from my friends and colleagues in the business comnumity. Union students and meml>ers of the faculty, staff, and ad- ministration make important contributions to this area. Union has a national reputati()n for academic excellence, md its presence here 'makes Schenectady a stronger, .more vital community.\ Capital District businesses contribute aboUt 10 percent of Union's annual gift support. Tile annual business campaign .has netted over $1.3 million f()r tlle college in its 13-year history- The Westinghouse Educational Foundatiort has awarded Union $30,00() f<>r curriculum development t() aid in the recruitment of out, standing science and engineering faculty memllers. The grant is designed to alleviate some teaclling responsibilities of - faeulty members in these departments in an effort to enhance Unioll 's -attractiveness to faculty can· didates. Increased research opportunities and professional exchanges. between junior and senior faculty are also expected to be positive results of the funding, For a fee of $1 Swans()ll Analysis Systems is licensing Union to use.,.some fi11ite element analysis progra::ms. The gift of software valued at approximately $12,000, is elC- pected to provide specialized analysis for curricular and research use. , Swanson has also given the college a $10,000 desk management package for use on a minicomputer. Electronic mail, filing systems, \in\ and \out\ baskets, calendars and a screen editor are some of the package's features. A research proposal by Eugene Schneller, associate professor and director of the Program in Health Systems Administration, has received a $23,471 grant from the Com- monwealth Fund. Schneller's proposal, titled nsett.er Information for Academic Health Centers; Strategic Planning in New York State\ outlines the study of several academic health cen- ters in New York City. The research will include examining the centers' internal and ex- ternal relationships, deter- mining how changes in state and federal policy are likely to affect the centers, and research how policy is leading to changes in the deliyery of health ser- vices. Jean. C. Pelletier~, director of Schaffer Library, has been named a Rockefeller research scholar at Albany State University's College of _.Public Affairs and Policy. · Pelletiere will take a sab- batical from her duties at Union to use the award and tuition waiver for the doctoral program. Rockefeller grants, given as a memorial to the late Governor Nelson Rockefeller, are given on the basis of academic merit, professional accomplishment, and demonstrable interest in a public service career. · Corne Take A Sttuly Break wHh the \UNION COLLEGE CONCERT BAND Rehearsals': Memorial Chapel - Thursdays · 6 : 3() - ·a : 30 p. m . · .. ;

of As he in If . te a n- ~d )r ~; ~k of n- 1e lg !!:· r- ;e ;o h !S r- 1 1 l ,... • ' • •. 1 CONCORDIENSlS, September 12, 1983 Pag_e3 Mailroom Changes Posted IJY GAYLE ROSENFELD Associate News E<Utor service \was too much .for greater now.\ Although the mailroom now closes at 8:00 p.m, instead of 11:00 p.m. each evening for security reasons, longer .package room hours have been obtained. \Changes have made a better mail service for students at Union,\· added Higley. The real stress now is to \get the mail in, get it sorted, and get it out of the mailroom.'' Effectiveness is Higley's goal. On a side note, Food Service has acquired the former package room for storage purposes. This should help this department with its current renovations. Laur.ie Colapinto, Supervisor of the mail room The Class of 'frl may not have noticed any changes in Union's mailroom · this fall, but up- perclassmen noted quite a dlff.erence upon their sub- sequent arrival. One ofthe main social center's of the college had undergone some maj~r alterations. No longer is there that infamous discard table in the center of this room. In its stead is a small enclosure with a window and one solitary figure seated inside. On a small slip of paper taped to· this window is listed window and . pa~kage hours~ On the door of the former package roo~ is a message referring all .,package seekers back to the mailroom for the end to their quest. Apparently, Union's administration has heardthe complaints uttered by students in reference to this latter service and has at .. tempted to comply. . 'Student Affairs to do a real good job for the students,\ said Higley: Upon Student Affairs' request, the entire mailing operation was. placed in the hands of the CMS. According to Lynn Chabot, a clerk for the CMS, Student Affairs wasn't ~·really serving students as well as it coUld.\ It just has too many other operations to monitor concurrently, thus, ·· decreasing its effectiveness in the mail service. Now the CMS and Student Affa.irs can supervise an area which they know best. For 'fUrther in- formation here, Higley ·can be reached at the CMS' at No. 6048. The actual procedure .for distributing mail has been changed. Now the mail will be delivered to the campus, at 8 a.m. and sorted-by 10:30 a.m. instead of piling up as it has in the past. UPS can be expected to arrive from 12 HJO' to 1:00 p.m. each afternoon. The in- tercampus man will be sorted all . day from Monday to Saturday by student employees of the mailroom. The package window will be closed every weekend and Sundays will see no employee activities. Another new service will be provided by the CMS itself. Students can now weigh . packages up· to 15 lbs. in the CMS office onthe first floor of Haskin's Lab, behind the Psychology Building, and using their own stamps may mail these packages directly at theCMS office. This lab is open from 8:00 to 4:00, but closed at 12:00 for an hour each day, from Monday to Friday. College Guide Revised Upon reaching one's mailboX this· semester, each student should have found a two page listing of all the student postal services provided by the newly altered maUroom. Unfor- tunately not everyone read this helpfUl notice, thus, making confusion over the updated operation more prevalent. However, the process is quite simple. All packages can be .secured at the mailroom win- dow between 10:00 and 11:30 and 12:00 to 4:00 p.m. from Monday to Friday. Questions can als9 be answered by directing them to the occupant of the new pac}tage room, Laurie Colapinto. She is a recent graduate of Union and has been employed as the package room's full time supervisor. Colapinto can also be reached for questions in the mailroom by calling No. 6372. What in effect has changed is the supervision of the mail service. Previously it was ruh by Student Activities, but it is now overseen by Kathy Higley,. Supervisor of the Central Mail Service, (CMS), and now of the student mailroom, also. According to Higley, the CMS is now \under one· supervisor to alleviate ~ confusion and problems encoqntered in the past.\ The student postal One issue that has arisen is that of the availability of pur• chasing postage stamps. Higley would like to see them sold in the mailroom at cost, but questions concerning· the presence of petty c~sh in the mailroom have appeared. The results of this question will be observed over the course of the next few months. It has been felt that the CMS has done an ·admirable job With the mailroom at this time. Commented Higley, the CMS \always handled U.S. mail for faculty and staff and in· tercampus mail,\ but with \all the mail in one place the availability of the mail is (CPS) The college guidebook that drew the wrath of ad- ministrators across the country a year and a half ago has just released its second edition, but with a new name and \a lot of fine tuning\ designed to pacify many of its critics. Though it quickly achieved sales success, the New York Times Selective Guide To Colleges drove some ad- ministrators to distraction when it first appeared in February, 1982 with a five-star system that r~ted schools as if they were hotels or restaurants. But what probably irritated them most were the descrip- tions of the social and academic climates of 265 of the nation's \best and most interesting;' four-year schools. · Of the fJniversity of Rhode Island, for instance, the book quipped: \As long .as you don't ask too much of URI,. it won't ask too much of you. u The guide characterized Marquette as a campus where \the ROTC types coexist well with the holdovers from the sixties.'' And the University of Tulsa, it commented, is 8J.right, \but unless you're intent on making big bucks in. oil, the -academic life Will be better .somewhere else.\ Outtraged administrators of the schools receiving such reviews mounted a quick counterattack on Edward Fiske, the paper's education Defaulters' Wages Offset By DOUG LANDON Editor-in-Chief U.S. Secretary of Education T .H. Bell has devised a plan to recover :more than $65 million in defauited student loan payments from. 41,000 active and retired .Federal employees. Bell's fellow Cabinet mem- bers will assist in recovering the funds by each designating a liason within. his or her respective departments. The liason will work with the Education Department in taking steps to garnish the wages and pensions of em- ployees who owe the Govern- ment money for college loans. Computers have matched 10.3 million Federal employee .personnel records to 900,000 student loan default records as part of an Education Depart- ment project to identify payment evaders. Letters Were later sent to 46,000 debtors, resulting in about . 5,000 responding over the past several mopths with payments totaling $2.3 million. Secretary Bell said, \We are now moving into the next phase of this collectlon proj~ct by implementing the ad• ministrative salary of.fset provisions of the Debt Collee- tion Act, signed into law by President Reag~n last October.\ Now that the Fede..-al Register .has pqblished final regulations on debt collection procedures, the Federal department may impose salary offsets and recover 15 percent per pay period or, if litigation ensues, recover 25 percent per pay period through post- judgement salary offsets, Bell said. Once offending government employees receive the letter that Bell ·has already showed the department heads, they have thirty days in which to respond. The letter reminds defaulters that they have ignored previous requests for payments and that outstmding principal, plus accrued interest, is owed the Government. \The (Reagan) Administration is determined to recover funds from all who ar:e in default, Bell added. Loan programs involved in this collection effort are the Federally Insured Loan (FISL), the National Direct Student Loan (NDSL), a:fid the Guaranteed Student Loan (GSL). ' Attention: Applications Now Being Accepted for the Following Committees-. Conce-rt Committee (6 openings) Elections Committee (6 openings) Film Committee (3 openings) Social Committee (3 openings) Speaker's Forum (6 openings) .. Traffic and Pet Court (4 openings, 1 chair vacancy) All students encouraged to apply! This is a good opportunity for underclassmen to get inv~lved! · Deadline: October 7. Pick up applications at Student Activities. Respectfully Submitted, J.ared Squires Chairman, Committee on committees editor and editor of the guide, who assembled the material published under the Times Books name. They argued-in letters, in- terviews· Ellld, in at least one instance, a personal con· frontation in Fiske's office-that the New York Times im- primatur lent a .suggestion of .objectivity to what was actually subjective material. Fiske based his reviews ofthe schools on responses to questionaires he sent students on each of the campuses. In spite of the controversy-or ,perhaps because of it-more than 80,000 copies of the books were sold. Times Books officials say they hope to match that record with the second edition. To help get there, Fiske has tried to· blunt the controversy before the book's official September 28ths publication date by alterlng his grading system and treading a little more softly on the reputations of the schools that complained loudly in 1982. Moreover, the new edition- dubbed The Selective Guide to Colleges--dropped all references to the Times in its title. The star rating system has been altered, notes Times Books publicist Sandy Brawarsky, \to discourage people from numberically rating schools on the basis of how many stars they got in a certain area/' The first edition awarded schools up to five stars ln. each of three catagories: academic life, social life and overall campUs quality. Some schools, Brawarsky says, added up their stars and tried to market themselves to prospective students as 14- or 12-star schools, \which was really a misrepresentation of the original ranking system.\ In the new edition, Fiske uses stars to rate academics, telephone symbols to rank social life, and asterisks to note quality of life. Among the less visible changes, though, are the ab- sences of four schools who were in the first edition. The University of Kentucky, upset over its low ranking in the book's first · run, was mysteriously left out of the second printing of the first edition. Fiske explains that after \an awful lot of discussion on that school, we decided to drop it altogether.\ Missing from the second edition are the University of Tulsa, Manhattan College and Barat College in illinois. \The three schools that were dropped just didn't meet Mr. Fiske's criteria,\ Brawarsky says. \He decided that other schools were more important.\ Perhaps coincidentally, Tulsa University Relations Director Koy Floyd was also the one administrator who flew to New York to confront Fiske per- sonally over the \sarcastic flippant\ review he gave the school in the first edition. Fiske also gave some schools better ratings this time around. The academic ratings for the universities of Nebraska and Oklahoma have risen from one star to three. Duke, Rice, Reed and Carleton College all got five- star academic ratings. in the new book, the highest possible. ·· Fiske also added 17 schools to the second edition. Brawarsky hopes the changes and additions will make the new book \a li~e better received,\ though she expects some backlash from unfaborably- reviewed schools. Indeed, University of Georgia Public Relations Director Barry Wood says he'll be ••very interested to compare the new entry for Georgia with the previous one\ when the book comes out. It coUldn't get much worse. In the first edition, Fiske wrote Georgia was attended by \small-town rednecks and big- city sophisticates\ who spent most of their time rmming around and chanting ''How 'bout them dawgs! '' An AD HOC committee has been formed to evaluate the candidacy of Prof. James McCord (English Department) for tenure. The com· mitteeconsists of ~rofs. Hui!(Chemistry), Smith (Arts), Stevenson (Eng I ishL and Reynolds (Economics-Committee Chairman). We actively invite testimony from students, faculty or alumni bearing on Prof. McCord's teaching, research or college service. Individuals wishing to offer testimony may contact Prof. Reynolds (370-6217) or any committee member. An AD HOC committee composed of Professors Berk, Gajjar, Jones, and Scaife (Chairperson) has been appointed to investigate, evaluate and report on the tenurabiHty of Professor Jay Newman (Physics). If any per· sons want to provide testimony relating to Professor Newman's tenurability, please submit the testimony in writing to the Chairperson or contact the Chairperson to set up an interview. 1/) Ill Cl s::. u (IJ c: c: c. Ill 0 > .0 0 0 .c 0.

Poge4 CONCORDIENSIS, September 12, /983 . ., -....cAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS- New Assistant Deans Named Joanne Tobiessen and Robert J. Massa have been named assistant deans of students, effective September 1. Tobiessen has served ·as director of the Career Development Center since February 1983, and Massa as director of student financial aid at Union since April 1980. As assistant dean of students, Tobiessen will be particularly responsible for providing assistance in the formulation of policies and practices which maximize opportunities for growth and development of women both on the campus and in their future careers. She will also serve as the advisor to the Pan Hellenic Council. In making the appointment, Dean of Students Joseph Mammola said, \We will look to Joanne Tobiessen to provide the leadership necessary for creating a campus environment which is sensitive and responsive to the needs of women within the College community.'' Ms. Tobiessen will continue as director of the . Career Development Center in addition to her new duties. Massa will be responsible for enhancing the relationship between students' academic lives and the rest of their college experience. In addition, he will supervise the conduct system, coordinate the orien- tation program, .and develop a new management support system for Greek organizations. \I'm very pleased to fill these two vacancies in the Office of Student Affairs with such distingUished and experienced administrators,'' Mammola said. \I look forward to working with both of my new colleagues in continuing to improve the quality of student life at Union. In particular, Dean· Massa and Dean Tobiessen have asked that we appoint a very represen- tative committee soon which will concern itself with relationships between men and women on the campus and which will seek to discover new opportunities for improving those relationships.\ / Safety Improvements Made At its April meeting, the Board of Trustees adopted a plan calling for the required improvement of a nwnber of safety features in privately owned fraternity houses on the campus. These corrections were to be made during the l!pring and summer months and completed by September 1. ''I am pleased to repOrt that all the houses cooperated in this effort- -particularly the alumni of- ficers-and the large majority of the improvements have been made. It was therefore not necessary to prevent any of the houses from opening,\ said Dean of Students Joseph Mammola. An average of over $20,000 per house was collected and spent by the fratemities .to improve the houses. All of the houses now have certified wiriJtg ·and exit lights, the basements have fire-resistive ceilings, and improved fire escapes have been ordered and will soon be in place. \We are very pleased by the progress and appreciative of the efforts of all those who helped with this project. In particular, Mr. Jack Hill, Director of Physical Plant, deserves much credit for the assistance and cooperation he gave to the fraternities,\ Dean · Manunola noted·. A .complete report will be given to the Board at the October meeting. Prof. Jonas togo to Budapest Manfred Jonas, Washington Irving Professor in Modern Literary and Historical Studies at Union College, has been named Dr. Otto Salgo Visiting Professor of American Studies at the Eotvos Lorand University of Budapest for the 1983-84 academic year. The Salgo chair was established through an agreement between the Salgo- Noren Foundation of New York at the University of Budapest. Jonas will be its first occupant, and will lecture on American history and political culture. The following are the updated lists for the Graduate Schools that will be coming on campus this FALL. Sign-ups for all graduate schools will be on Tuesday, Sept. 20. Business Schools: Recruiting Date N.Y.U. Graduate School of Business 10-6-83 Babcock Grad. School of Management 10-6-83 Jones Graduate School- Rice University 10-7-83 Tulane School of Business '10-7-83 Georgetown Uni. School of Admin. 10-17-83 Pace University- Graduate Programs 10-18-83 Amos Tuck School of Bus. Admin. 10-18-83 Cornell Graduate School of Management 10-18-83 Rutgers Graduate School of Managementl0-24-.83 J.J. Kellogg Grad. School of Mgmt (Northwestern) 10-24-83 Syracuse University 11-2-83 Columbia University Tl-3-83 Roc.hester Institute of Technology ll-10-83 Law Schools: Recruiting Date Univ. of Cincinnati Schoot of Law 9-28-83 Vermont Law School 10-10-83 Univ. of Richmond School of Law 10-11-83 Univ. of Dayton 10-12-83 Wash. & Lee School of Law 10-14-83 Tulane Univ. School of Law ll-1-83 Golden Gate U. School of Law 11-1-83 Case Western Reserve Law School 11-1-83 We wifl be signing up for Philadelphia Electric Company and Westinghouse Electric Cor- poration on September 22 at 8 a.m. Jonas has been a member of the Union College faculty since 1963 and has served as director of both the graduate and un- dergraduate programs in American Studies and as chairman of the Division of Social Science. From 1970 to 1981, he was chairman of the ~partment of History,. and from 1981 to 1983 was the elected chairman of the faculty. Jonas also has taught at Harvard and Northeastern Unive~sities, Widener College, and the Free University of Berlin. He was Senior FulbrightmHays Lecturer at the University of Saarland in 1973 and research fellow at the Charles. Warren center of Harvard University during 1976-77. A specialist in American diplomatic history, Prof. Jon.as is the author of five books, among them Isolationism in America, 1935-1941, which was a National Book Award nominee in 1966, and Roosevelt and Churchill: Their Secret Correspondence (with F.L. Loewenheim and H.D. Langley) which was a History Book Club Selection and Book-of-the- Month Club alternate in 1975. His latest, The United States and Germany: A ~Diplomatic History, is to be publli;hed by ·cornell University. Press in March. The author of numerous articles, Jonas also has edited American Foreign Relations in the Twentieth Century; and New Opportunities In the New Nation (with Robert V. Wells). Union Receives Grant. The Schenectady Foundation has awar:ded a $10,000 grant to Union College toward the College's Arts Building renovation. __. Union's Arts Department, previously located in various buildings on campus, was moved in 1972 to Philosophical Hall, built in 1813. The building is currently undergoing renovations designed to in- crease and· improve gallery, studio, classroom, and practice room. space. Nearly three-quarters of Union's students are involved in the arts, either in a course or through extracurricular ac- tivities such as glee, clubs, chamber music and jazz groups, dance practica, · photography and art clubs, and t h.e a t e r p r o d u c t i o n s . Schenectady area residents and arts organizations frequently attend performances by Union's Arts Department, and rent Union's facilities for dance and other kinds of artistic activities. Begun in 1962, the Schenecm tady 'Foundation is a not-for- profit charitable eorporation organized to help meet im- portant needsofthe community by providing funds for cultural, charitable, educational, and scientific purposes. Prof. Rappaport Elected Fellow Raymond Rappaport J,r., professor of developmental biology at Union College, has been elected a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. A fellow of the AAAS is defined as \a member whose efforts on behalf of the ad- vancement of science or its applications are scientifically or .socially distinguished.'' Rappaport received the honor for contributions in the area of cytokinesis of animal ¢ells. Rappaport, a resident' of Schenectady, received a Ph.D. fromYale University in 1952, and has been a member of Union's. faculty since that year; He has been associated with the Mount Desert Island Biological Laboratory since 1948, first as a student and, since 1953, as a senior research scientist. He is currently carrying ·out his research with the support of a five-year grant from the National Science Foundation. St. A.ndrews Scholar Named Patricia Pearson, a junior psychology major at Union College, has been named the Union ,e:xchange scholar to St. Andrews University in Scotland. A native of Elizabethtown, N.Y., and a former resident of St. Johnsbury, Vt., Pearson will study Scottish history, English history, and psychology. She will leave for Scotland in mid- September. Pearson, who resides in Schenectady, has worked full time while attending classes at Union. \It's been quite a year,\ she said-besides receiving the scholarship, she also became a grandmother. Union, · an independent, coeducational college with 2,000 undergraduates, offers programs in the liberal arts and engineering. Founded in Schenectady, N.Y., in 1795, Union was the first college chartered by the New York State Regents, and it is among the oldest nondenominational colleges in the country. Prot Tidmarch Named Trustee Charles M. Tidmarch, associate professor of political science at Union College, has been named a faculty trustee. He attended ,his first meeting ofthe College Board. of Trustees in June, and will serve through 198fi. Tidmarch has been a member af Union's faculty since 1970. A graduate of Moravian College, he holds an M.A. ana a Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins University. · He was named Woodrow Wilson Fellow for 1966-67, · N.A.E.A. fellow for 1967-70, and American · Political Science Association Congressional Fellow for 197S.. 79. As a Congressional fellow, he worked on the staffs of Senator Sam Nunn (D-Ga.) and · CongressmanRobert.Edgar (D- Pa.). Tidmarch is the author of numerous articles and reviews in political science journals, and llas written two Op ii,:d articles for The New York Times. He was also a member of the executive council of the Northeastern Political Science Association from 1976 to .1978. Among TidmatGh's areas of professional interest are Congressional elections, presidential-Congressional relations, and campaign strategies and tactics. He lives with his wife, Laura, and two daughters in Glenville. Stock Converter To Speak Wallace . M. Campbelf, president of Northeast Savings Bank, will discuss ''As Thrifts Enter a New Era, Northeast Savings Goes Public,\ at Union College Thursday, Sept. 22 .. The Administrative and Engineering Systems Colloquium will begin at 3: 45 p.m., and will be held in Room 312, Bailey Hall. The public is invited to attend. A graduate of the Graduate School of Savings Bariking at Brown University, Campbell has been connected with the Scbenectady Savings Bank, now Northeast Savings, since 1957. He began his career as a teller and was named president and trustee in 1982. Northeast Savings Bank is in the process of conversion from a mutual to a stock company. I I ..,.__.( .. 1 a g si s s1 fE 8l jt Sl SJ pl c] a) tl b4 A ru Sl w u D lx to st OI

f ~- .. I , \ ..,.. --(\' . i ',: .._.1 CONCORDIENSIS, September 22, 1983 Shoals Experienced By DAVE FITZGERALD and FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Associate Features Editors Just off the coast of Maine and New Hampshire are a small group of apparently in- significant islands, the Isles of Shoals. Twenty-two Union students, comprising two dif- ferent classes (Marine Biology and Images of the Sea) have just returned~from the Isles of Shoals with a different per• spective of this area. The Isles .of Shoals, as .previously mentioned is a small cluster of nine islands located approximately seven miles off the New Hampshire-Maine border. Of the Isle group, Appledore Island is the largest and also serves as locale for the Shoals Marine Laboratory, where the students and seven Union faculty members stayed. During their two-week stay, both groups had the oppOrtunity to participate in this unique studying environment. The more scientifically orientated course, Marine . .. Biology, was composed of fourteen students led by professors Barbara Boyer, Carl George, and Frank Lambert. A uniquely unspoiled en- voronment is found in thi$ area providing ample opportunities to study the marine biota and their interelationships to other organisms and the human populace. In addition, Appledore is outfitted with two well-equtped marine laboratories. A variety of learning activities were pera formed during the two-week period. After an initial informational session in which groWtd rules for the island were laid down ( Le. one Shower per week, careful use of fire, etc.) and a d.ay ... long period of adjwmnent to the island, lectures about the general island biota were given. Interspersed with the lectures of the first week, the students began transect work •• a quantitative analysis of the organisms present in a strip of land extending to the sea. Appledore ISland, homeaftheShoalsMarineLaboratory. The following week, students iSland with a formal written and began independent research oral presentation of the work to projects - which. vary in s~ope be completed .upon return to from the influence of the island Union. Another major event to geology on the biota, the be held was the Biodecathon, workings of an animal \the neatest fonn of student mastication organ, to the ef- torture even invented\ - a fects of varying salinities on scavenger hunt and lab prac- snails. Some of the projects tical held on a grandiose scale r e q u i r e d s n o r k 1 in g , that served as the course final. photography, and controlled Images of the Sea is a conditions. The majority of the multidisciplinary course that field-work was completed on the integrates the departments of WELCOME BACK STUDENTSe lARGEST SEtltlfG BEER '' THE ~~c;o~-\. ~ .•... ·. St.L~~ ..... KING OF BEERS® ANHEUSER BUSCH INC • ST LOUIS PageS Philosophy, Soeiology, Biology and Civil Engineering into one coherent unit. The course is taught by President John Morris, llene Kaplan, Barbara Boyer, Margaret Schadler, and Paul Weiss. Each of the professors taught in their own area of specialty and when they were not teaching they sat in on the class and participated in the class discussion. One of the many unique aspects of Images is that the professors as well as the students learn from the other professors. After a brief orientation to the island,. work f()r the course began with a number of readings read by President Morris on how the sea has played an important role in the lives and beliefs of people throughout the ages. Students and professors were required to read a nwnber of works of literature that dealt with the sea. The sea has been an im- portant image and ideal to people and this is part of what the· philosophy portion of the course was coneemed with . As well as being important to the beliefs of sorne people, the sea has played an important role in the forming of the cultures of different societies. How people behave on islands and the role the sea has played in the forming of different cultures is part of ·the sociological portion of the course. Part of the work that will be done during the rest of Fall Tefm for t.be course will include studies of island communities and utopian societies. For the biology section the students were required to do what are called inter-tidal studies. Students worked in groups studying a small section of the island :perimeter which extended to the sea. As well as studying the orgMisms in the sea, Images students went on tours of the island studying the muskrat and bird populations of the island. Despite the fact that the Images group was not composed of rnany biology students, a lot of biology related field-work was J:tccomplished. The Civil Engineering portion of the course m.ade everyone aware of the special problems present on islands in the areas of sanitation, obtaining fresh water and electricity and many other taken-for ,granted com- forts of regular society. The Images group, as \Well as having lectures about the . problems involved ~n pr()viding basic services on the island, took a field trip to the Seabrooke Nuclear Power Site. At the site everyone was given the op- portunity to actually see the reacto1· and generators. Perhaps no one changed their opinions on nuclear power but the site was very impressive. Images of the Sea and Marine Biology are two courses which provide students with the op- portunity to learn in a unique environment. In addition to lectures, labwork atd research, Appledore Island provides the perfect setting to learn not only the assigned work but something about yourself and your fellow classmates. ... !l) \0 \Qj c t:: u Ill c ~ c It! ... u. >- .0 0 0 .c 0..

Page6 CONCORDIEf!IS/S, September 22, 1983 • '··-:: -;. . - .::.~:! :::~ ··.{·· .• .. · Once in a while, a company will make an important change which is in its own interest and which also becomes a great benefit to the pWele of the community. . , e have been consid~red a somew~at high priced store. We don t. want to be that. We will be a low pnced store, and completely comyetitive to the lowest leading supermarket in your communit~ We'I increase our sales so that we can speed up our expansion and modernization plans. . We are reducing our regular prices to match those of our lowest leading supermarket comtetitor in all our communities. · Gr-and Onion This is not a trice war, but we wil match them no matter how low , of the lowest ·· they~ And hat is a permanent change. supermarket in ~'Olll:' e felt that rna~ mak not believe this. !~ust another wo- motion'' is what they'l thin . (Of course, we'll still have our ed Dot Weeklh ,Specials-eve~ more of them.) But t IS thefi can beheve .. We will pub ish, everfl week, for everr;store, over 9,000 regu- lar Rrices in a booklet ca ed the Grand nion Consumer Pnce Fin er. It will be free to all to take homei to use in shonfing at any su~rmarket, to helP. shoppers shop inte li[ently. It w1 be printea week~ with updated prices and organize for easy use. e believe it wil be of enormous benefit to you, and we hope it will help us as welL Come to Grand Union for your free Price Finder. You don't have to buy a thing to get it. But if you do, you'll like our lower .. ::/;:- =:-}~~=:~ ... '. . ·;·m'~~:::,;;~;,~·iJi! 1 i::j~h~~;, .: . .... prices. .- .. ··· ::;: :·:·}:=h: r llfttt .. ... ). ~ ~ . ~ !. ... 1/r \' ,_, ' y y I . I I , ( J I ( c c f , I ~ E ( I I ~ .. .. -

... ~· CONCORDIENSIS, September 22, 1983 FEATURES World of Fantasy Have you ever been in the midst of an exciting adventure, ·science fiction or fantasy novel and wished you could change or just enter the plot? Now's your chance! The Schenectady Wargamers Association wiH present Council of Five Nations, a four day festival of round-the- clock, adventure-packed role playing games, from 5 p.m., October 7 through 6 p.m., October 10. Hop aboard a lunar e:x• pedition in search of alien civilizations, command annies and fleets in war-torn Europe and attend diplomatic con- ferences, step into the boots of Wyatt Earp, or battle ancient magic to save a medieval village from the· clutches. of an evil tyrant and gain a kingdom of your own. Different games, such as - Dungeons · & Dragons, Diplomacy;\Wild West, Gamma World, 'Tunnels & Trolls,. Runequest and more, will' be scheduled at simultaneous and varied intervals throughout the four-day extravaganza. Open gaming every day and every night at the Studio of Bridge & Games~ _1639 Eastern Parkway, Schenectady. Lunch and dinner will be· available. Whether you are 16 or 60, age presents no boundaries. Among those attending you will find someone yollliger and older than· yourself, regardle$8 of your age. So, whatever your chosen fantas-y games, step into a role unrestricted with no script and let your imagination and strategy skills have a feast! For further infonnation call (518) 346-3773. Schenectady WargamElrs Association is a non-profit organization .. Discover the m.ogic of good books THE OPEN DOOR 128-136 Joy Street Downtown Schenectady 346-2719 . . ·-·o Students protest increase in phone installation charge. Expensive Connection -~ - ~ By DAVE FITZGERALD and FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Associated Features Edi*ors \If you are a believer burn your receiver!'' was one of a number of clarion calls shouted by three concerned Union students. The motivation for this action was more than. just a mere attention getting scheme. Ev.er since seniors Pam Russell, Carolyn Bigda and Sheri Kudrewicz were fresh· men, they have watched the Phone Company phone in- stallation charges increase year after year. a phone line installation charge which this.year is $46. It seems that students are being charged for a service which has already been performed. Their anger at this apparently pointless charge was manifested by their demonstration last Tuesday afternoon in front of Carnegie Hall. - It was a rather peaceful demonstration with few disturbances. A phone company representative (in the Banquet Room) did contact the head of the Residence Life Office, Dave Wood, asking him to take ac- tion. A professor also com- plained ~bout the level of noise, but that was the extent of the complaints, with most passers- by signalling their approval. Although they did demon- strate, the trio \faced reality\ and installed a phone of their own: \Even though we did sign up for a phone we still felt the urge to take action. . . The demonstration was an attempt to make people aware of this catch-22 situation.'' Though there will not be marty aftereffects felt as a result of this demonstration, people on campus are now more aware of this unfair situation due to the concern of these three Union students. tJl .:::Jt. u I1J (/) w 0. >- .c 0 .... 0 .c: c. Faculty and Staff In order to faci l.itate the printing of this year's ZBT Directory, we \We felt it was time that people became aware ·of the power the phone company has over such a taken~for-granted object.. · :Even if it (the in- stallation charges) went up to fuwheels For Life\.l . . would appreciate it if all offices & departments which have. changed \the-ir phone numbers from last year would leave a notice in Box 2516. . $100, people would still pay. There is no point in letting them walk all over you,\ stated the three. At the start of each year, phone company representatives appear-on campus for pho~e usage sign-ups. As part of- the initial service charges, there is Homecoming '83 All students interested· in helping with Homecom_ing Weekend (October 7-9) _are invited to attend . Homecoming Meeting on Thursday; September 22 3:30p.m. Banquet Room, Carnegie Hall Join the Fun! . ~ Join the Student Homecomi_ng Committee! . ' The Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science is conducting a third-year review ot· Prof. Herbert J. Kump._ Any person who wishes to contribute to the department's investigation should submit statements, either oral or in writing; to Prof. Yu Chang in the department. ''Wheels for Life\ Bike-a-thon fights childhood cancer. Capital District Bike-a-thon Chairman Robert L. Hemming is asking Capital District residents to participate in the St. Jude Children's Research Ho_spital \Wheels for Life\ Bike-a-thon to be held on October 1st at 10 a.m. at the Altamont Fair Ground Track, Rte. 145, Altamont, NY, sponsored by the Altamont Apple Harvest Festival Committee. Rain date is on October 2nd at noon. Volunteer workers and riders are needed for the Bike-a-thon to raise funds for the world- famous research center and its battle against childhood cancer and other catastrophic childhood diseases. Heniming said this year,s ride is being dedicated to Terry, a leukemia patient at St, Jude . \By riding for Terry, we'll really be helping all stricken children since research is the only way these illnesses can be conquered,\ Hemming said. \We're looking for people who will contribute some of their time and energy to help children live. We really need .bike riders, since they are the ones who can make this Bike-a- thon successful.'' In the Bike-a-thon, riders enlist sponsors who donate a sum for each mile completed. Riders who raise $25 will receive a St. Jude TQshirt, and those raising $75 will receive a barrel tote bag. \And other . prizes will be awarded to those who raise the most money. Prizes will be on display at the fair ground and will be given to the winners hopefully within 10 days after the Bik:e-a-thon after all money is returned from riders. The Bike-a-thon is for both adults and youths. All par- ticipants under the age of 18 must have their parents with them at the fair ground at time of registration to sign sponsor forms; sponsor. forms are available at the following locations: Passonno Paint Factory Outlet Stores 500 Broadway, Watervliet, & 1438 Western Ave., Albany; Rudy's Schwinn Cyclery 578- 2nd Ave., N. Troy; A & G Bicycle Shop & Hobby Center, Inc., 305 Central Ave., Albany; Altamont Fair Ground Administration Office; Dairy Queen, Route 20, Guilderland; Lou Plane's Auto and Bikes,1816 State St., Terry is the 1983 Leukemia National Poster child. Schenectady; Pin-up Alley (Antiques) 188 Main St., Altamont; and at most Altamont merchants, or you may write in care of Robert L. Hemming, Chairman \Wheels for Life\ 132-3rd St.; Waterford, NY 12188 and enclose a self- addressed stamped envelope, or call (518) 235-2660. \You can put. your muscles to work for a child's life in this Bik:e-a-thon,'' Hemming $aid. \We need every bike and every rider.\ St. Jude Hospital was founded by entertainer Danny '111omas, and operates prmarily from public contributions.

Page8 CONCORD/ENSL~, September 22, l9B3 \ FEATURES Nature in N.Y. BIG IRfJTHERI:.JIG SISTERS ALBANY - How would you like to take a geological field trip, right in downtown Albany? Or maybe you're curious about what happened to Albany during the· ice age? Did you know that earthquakes do occur in New York State? All of these topics, plus more, will be addressed in 'lbe Nature of Things, a series of free popular natural science and geology lectures, field trips and films that will be presented by the New York State Museum on Saturdays from October 1 through November 5, 1983. The series will focus on the diverse types of rocks used in the construction of the Empl.i-e State Plaza, Autumn insects, glacial activity in the state, bird migration, Fall gardening and earthquakes in New York State. All programs will begin at 10:30 a.m. Each film shown on Saturday in The Nature of 'lbings series will be repeated on the following Tuesday at 12:10 in the Museum auditorium. The schedule for the program is: Saturday, October 1·-\The Rocks in the Rockefeller Plaza: Let's Look at Them\ by Dr. Robert Fickies of the New York State Science Service. The program begins with a two minute slide, lecture and in- cludes a \field trip\ through the Empire State Plaza to identify and discuss the many types of rocks used in the construction of the site. Saturday, October 8-- \Autwnn Insects: Strategies for Life\ by Dr. Timothy McCabe of the New York State Science Service. Paricipants will meet in the Pine Bush to enjoy a field trip and study the \buck moth\ if the seasonal timing is right. Directions will be given and individuals will provide their own tran- sportation. In case of rain, a slide-lecture on \Insects Preparing for Winter\ will be given by Dr. McCabe and the film \Life Cycle of Insects: Complete and Incomplete\ will be shown. Saturday, October 15-\Iced Over Albany: Glacial Activity and Effects\ by Dr. Donald Cadwell of the New York State Science Service. A slide-lecture and discussion of how the physical features of New York came into being-the mountains, river systems and hilJs. The film \Is the Ice Age Coming?\ will be shown. Saturday, October 22-\Bird Migration: How Do They Know Where They Are Going?\ by Dr. Denneth Able of SUNY Albany. Dr. Able will explore the unusual and little known methods of navigation that birds imploy in migrating. His unique ~tudies through radar atop the Heldeberg Mountains are featured, along with the film \Travelers on the Wing.\ Saturday, October 29-\Fall and Winter Gardening-Dig In\ by Robert Beyfuss of tile Greene County Co-operative Extension Service. In a slide- lecture, Beyfuss explains tlte how, what and why of planting sites, preparing soil, placement of trees and shrubs, and caring for them through the winter• The video tape \Fall is For Planting\ is featured. Saturday, November 5-· \Earthquakes in New York- and Elsewhere\ by Dr. Walter Mitronovas, State Seismologist with· the New York State Science Service. The careflll and continuai monitoring of earthquakes in New. York State will be featured in a slide-- lecture and the fihn \Hidden Earth\.will be shown. All programs will begin at !0:30a.m. and, unless otherwise specified, will be held in the State Museum auditorium. For more information, call 518-474- 5877 or 474-5842. Features Writers Needed! Call6155 Uwon News-Welcome back Big Brothers-Big SistErs. We hope you had an enjoyable swnmer. Listed below are a nwnber of important ·events and dates to put on your calendar. SAturday, September ~~ 1-5 p.m. Union Cclllege A.~tivltJes ExposlUon.--We will have a booth at the Exposition, so please stop by and say hello. You can also learn more about the various activities and clubs on campus. Sunday, October 2, Big Brothers-Big Sisters Capitol 8 Run-Get in shape to runin this 8 m.ile race or volunteer to help with the race. Any st1,1dents interested in ·the Big Brothers- Big Sisters program are invited to attend. Call if you would like to participate. Saturday, October 15, 12-4 p.m., Annual Picnfc·-· The Annual Picnic will be held at the home of Dr. and Mrs. George Voss, .2827 Rosendale Rd., Schenectady, NY 12:109. All Bigs and Littles are in- vited. Please call and let us know if you are coming. Please plan to bring a salad or dessert. There will be lots of activities, • games, and prizes. Sunday Group Prograttl-This .fall tenn we Will .be scheduling our . weekly Sunday program (1:30-3:30 p.m.) as follows: October 2, October 9, October 16, October 23, Octcber 30, November 6, November 13, November 20. Please contact your Little Brother-Little Sister as soon as possible. It has been a long summer ~d they are looking forward to seeing you.. Please call if you cannot reacll yQur Little Brothers-Little Sisters for any reason. Get to the answers faster. With thenss .. n. What you need to tackle the higher mathematics of a science or engineering cur, riculum are more functions - more functions than a s~mple slide,rule calculator has. Enter the TI-55,IJ, with 112 powetful functions. You can work faster .and more accurately with the TI-55~II, because its preprogrammed © 1983 Texas Instruments to perform complex calcula- tions ~like definite integrals, linear regression_and hyper- bolics ~ at the touch of a button. And it can also be programmed to do repetitive problems without re-entering the entire formtila. Included is the Calculator Decision-Making Sourcebook. It makes the process of using . the TI-55-11 even simpler, and shows you how to use all the power of the calculator. Get to the answers faster. Let a TI-55-II ...lis show you how. \V TEXAS INsrRUMENTs Creating useful products and services for you. i \ I~ --·r ~ ~ -£· ~ Cll L. Cll .0 c Cll IJ) 0 rl: .!!! c c 0 a:l >- .0 0 .... 0 .c a. I .. - I t l t 1 t l r c f

/ ,_, Ol .... OJ ..a c OJ !/) 0 0:: .~ c c 0 OJ >- .0 0 .... 0 .c a. CONCORDIEN$1S. September 12, 1983 Page9 THE ARTS Shooting Schenectady By DEBBIE ALBERT and KAREN LISSA VER Currently in the Arts Building there is a Photo Exhibit entitled '~Schenectady, New York 1983.\ . These photographs are from the 1983 spring tenn Photo II and PhotD III classes. The thirteen Union students involved in this exhibit are Mitch 'Friedman, Stephen Gross, Cathleen Howard, Bill Kirby, Phouc Trong Le, Jeff Pantenauede, Harold Reindel, Bonnie Rosenberg, Arelis Santiago, Margaret Shue, Tom Walsh, Michael Zelvin and David Zuckerberg. Along with these students are Tim Archibald, a tenth grader from Schenectady, Tony TassarDtti, a lab technician here, and Martin Benjamin, . the .Professor of Phot()graphy. Among the thirteen Union st11dents, five are Art Majors. \1921 Union Graduate\ The assignment for· the semester was ,for each student to go out into Schenectady and take pictures of people in ac- tion. As Professor Benjamin said, go out and \shoot Schenectady.'' Each student was t() present twenty different photographs for his or her portfolio. Out of each portfolio the best photograph was chosen and .the student was then assigned to make sixteen prints of that one picture. These sixteen duplications were coalated and distributed to each student in the class. The photographs on exhibit are all 11:x14in size and they will be there for a f~w weeks. We bighly suggest that. everyone go and catch a glimpse of the exhibition. \Spoke of_ the Hub\ By CHRIS MARSCHING \Central Park, Sc!'lenectady\ Composers: . We W a~t You The \Spoke of the Hub\ dance company came to Union College on September 19 to direct a workshop and hold a per- formance in the Nott Memorial. Led by Elise -Long, the com- pany's uniqu·e mixture of theatre and dance has delighted audiences throughout New England. The company is based in Brooklyn, New York at \The Living Room Performance Space\ as a non-:profit dance organiZation. They offer dance classes, workshops, and a monthly \choreographer's showcase.\ The 32nd annual BMI Awards to Student Composers com- petition will award $15;000 to young composers, James G. Roy Jr., BMI assistant vice president, Concert Music Administration, has announced. He added that the deadline for entering the 1983-84 competition will be February 15, 1984. Established iri 1951 in cooper-ation with music -· educators and composers, the awards program is sponsored by Broadcast Music, Inc., the world's largest music licensing organization. The contest is designed to encourage the creation of concert music by young composers and to aid in their musical education through cash awarps. Prizes ranging from $500 to $2,500 are awarded at the discretion of the judges. To date, 285 students, ranging in age from 8 to 25, have received BMI Awards. The 1983-84 competition is 'Let's Dance Dance classes are offered by the Arts Department in both ballet and modern dance from the beginner to the advanced levels. Students may earn one- third credit per term by taking a minimum of two classes a week. Students may also register for classes on a non- credit basis. The fall dance schedUle is as follows: Monday: M.odern Dance I, 3:00-4:30, B.allet III, 4:45-6:15. Tuesday: Modern Dance II, 4:30-6:00, Ballet II++ 6:00-7:30. Wednesday: Modem Dance III 4:30-6:00. Thursday: Modern Dance I and II, 4:30-6:00, Ballet II++. 6:0().. 7:30. Friday: Ballet! 12:00-1:3.0, Ballet II, 1 : 3()..3: 00, Pointe I, 3:0().4:00. Children's Ballet++ 4:00-5:30, Ballet I++ 5:30-7:00. JOINWRUC Tonite at 7:00 in-WRUC Lounge - Music • Sports N-ews • Production open to students who are citizens or permanent residents of the Western Hemisphere and who are enrolled in accredited secondary schools, colleges or conservatories or are engagea in private study with recognized and · established teachers anywhere in the world. Con- testants must be under 26 years of age on December 31, ,1983. There are no limitations as to instrumentation, stylistic consideration or length of work submitted. Students may enter no more than one C()mpcsition, which need not have been composed during the year of entry. Compositions, which are entereq under pseudonyms, are considered by a preliminary panel of judges before going to a final panel. The 1.983-84 competition closes February 15, 1984. Official rules and }lntry blanks are available frorn James G. Roy, Jr., Director, BMI Awards to Student Composers, Broadcast Music, Inc.,· 320 West 57th St., New York, NY 10019. The group was founded in 1979 by Elise Long a graduate of Middlebury College. She holds a B.A. degree and h.as done graduate work in dance education at New York ·university. Two other key dancers are David Capps, another Middlebury graduate, and Rosemary Lee, who comes from Egnland. Being a privately funded group, money for travel and enlargement is a major concern. The Union campus performance was sponsored by the Minerva Committee. The group, con- sisting of six people, stayed for one day at a cost of $1~500. Self- produced grants and private Paisa Miser FASHIONS FROM INDIA Back to School Specials 20Yo Discount on all New Arrivals With Tlris Ad 163 JAY STREET 377-7973 Che<ks A<cept•d with Visa, Master Car• or Americail bpress 10:30-6 Dailr, 1 0:30·9 Thursdays funding are a necessity for the survival of the group. The six-part performance consisted of series of leaps, tumbling, jumps, eccentric clothing, intricate maneuvers and intense movements. The whole performance was rather awe-inspiring and exlillerating. The use of synchronization baffled and bewildered the observer. Their innovative style combined with improvisations and unique behavior should help make this group a great suc- cess. Ms. Long's expressive personality shines through in each dance she choreographs and her fellow dancer's actions. In one dance the three per- formers, dressed in white robes, expressed their feelings about nuclear disarmament and presented a slide show to more graphically illustrate their point. ln the future, the group plans to travel to England and · Canada to perform, as well as increase their time spent touring. Ms. Long hopes that one day her dancers will be paid not only for performance time but for rehearsal time as well. Further funding would enable the group to leave tlleir outside jobs and concentrate their full effort on \Spoke of the Hub!' We wish much future success to this innovative and unique group. For Rent: COMPUTER TERMINAL with MODEM Call 377-0228

Page 10 CONCORDIENSJS, September 22, 1983 QrJltlfllrbirnsis FoU/Jika al f /mon Co/leg~ 187-:' ------------- ~------------ Ma Bell Rings Unrest \If you're a beliel'er, burn )·our rece.iver!\ .. Ma Bell, go to hl'll!\ These and other similar slogans were seen parading in l'ront of Carnegie ·Hall last week on signs held by a few en- thusiastic students who don't enjoy getting ripped off. American Bell has somehol'l slipped another rate hike past the Public Service Commission, resulting in a $46 installation charge for UniOn students who desire a phone. The cost of hookup may be borne up to four times fen the undergrad, and the )'early price keeps going up. The phone sets are not delivered, no housecalls are necessary, names are not listed in the Schenectady phonebook, and we pay a monthly charge. Just what does the $46 do? Tr) an experiment .. Right now, walk to the nearest light· switch. Flip it once, up or down. Was that effort worth $46? Many on campus don't think so, and some, by virtue of t'Conomic necessity, are doing something about it. They aren't getting phones! The phQne company is actually losing · business, while )tudents lack the convenience of a phone. Many simply can't afford the expense, while others keep their $46 in silent protest. One student's protest rises above the silence. Stacy Fassberg, a sophomore, intends to circulate a petition against the inflated cost around campus. and take it to a hearing at the Consumer Protection Agency next week. Who says you can't · tight city ball? Conwrdiensis encourages the student body to sign the petition and support an effort in which virtually all campus housing residents have a direct financial interest. Your signature simply protests the price, and does not bind you to anything. Also, Stacy may need a bit of help circulating the forms, as well as some accompaniment to Albany next week. College students have a reputation for being one of the most outspoken groups in our society • .Don't let that image sag; at the very least, sign the petition. · At .these prices, E.T. can't even afford to call home •.• Meal Deal Distasteful Human nature dictates that one becomes upset and defensive when one's privileges are restricted. Right or wrong, the college's Food Service has restricted use options .of ·meal plan customers. Upperclassmen returned to campus to be confronted by not only an increase in meal plan prices, but also some new severe. and unreasonable rules on when one can and cannot eat. Carrying punches over from day to day ,let alone week to week, is no longer possible. . . Each punch seems to be intended for one specific meal, and if one can't make it to the dining hall at that particular time, tough. Administrators in the Food Service office justify the turn of events on a conC'ept called the Hmissed meal factor,\ which does indeed have some merit in a broader context. Meal plan price~ are based on the actual cost of the average number of meals eaten weekly by students on that particular plan. For example, the average person on the fourteen-meal plan may eat eleven to twdve meals weekly, and· the plan is priced accordingly. Isn't the entire meal plan population being made to suffer unduly for so11.1e wbo may try to \cheat'~ the system by at- tempting to use aU their punches? The second point of contention is that a Ia carte food prices in the Skellar have been raised by as much as 50o/o since last year, yet the meal plan allotments ($2.50 for luncb, $3.50 for dinner) have remained static. The rationale here seems to be that the old prices permitted students to get more food than they ac- tually wanted, and give the extra to friends. Food Service doesn't like this. If a student is allowed $3.50 for dinner, whose business is it but his or hers as to what is done with the food? Since when in America does some authority dictate what one may or may not · do with personal property, so long as the act is not illegal? Giving away food is not illegal. Neither is throwing it away, for that matter. The bottom line is this. Students should be allowed to eat their designated number of meals at whatever mealtimes are most convenient for them. Whether the \missed meal factor\ is accurate or not, if the card says 10, 14, or 19 meals, that is what the owner has coming. LETTERS Stud.ent Expresses -Anger To the Editor, Last week, Union College students experienced a terrible blow to their economic survival for the academic year-the installation of our telephones. For those of you who are stiU unaware, New York Telephone has, through what I am sure .is some highly analytical formula, come up with an installation charge of $46.00. In other words, New York Teiephone has charged us $46.00 so that . someone will sit behind a computer, and, within a matter of a few seconds, initiate pawer with a touch of a few buttons. It doesn't take an economics major to figure out that we are eetting ripped off. We are all aware of the - economic instability being experienced throughout the country. Whereas once, a college degree insured finat1cial success, today, a college degree is bec0mlng less and less valuable. Financial Aid is no longer restricted to a few but is granted to a large percentage .of college students across the country. More students are having to find campus and off- campus jobs in order to support themse'lves. With such a struggle for financial in- dependence, how can New Yotk Telephone expect us to pay $46:00? What, is the installation charge going to be two years from now, when I am a senior? This should hardly be one _person's fight. New York Telephone seems to be the topic \l • of conversation at partie$, over dinner·, anll in classrooms. This is· the perfect opportunity for the whole school to join together and make a · statement.·. Petitions will be distributed ort Friday, ~ptember 23 in protest of the exhorbitant prices being • charged by N.Y. Telephone .and I 'ho.pe that everyone will sign it .. · These petitions will then be· presented to .the Consumer • Protection Agency in ·Albany nelrt week.· One person can't· make the same p()int as 100 or· 1000. If there .is anyone who . Would like to get involved in what I think is a very worthy fight, please contact me c-o Box 698. Stacy Fassberg . '86 , A Message To The Free World To the Editor, I am .an inmate currently incarcerated in a maximum security prison. Allow me this opportunity to ask a small favor of you, but first. let me introduce myse1f. My name is No. 77-A- 2360. This letter is composed from the core of my soul to convey a message to the free-world. It is my . fervent hope you will publish this letter to make this possible. I reach out from my lonely immured environment, eager to touch a human heart, the altruist I know is out there. Although the path of life has- always been a labyrinth fQr me, · I never eXpected-destiny -to be· so cruel. · I can only blame myself for the display of avarice, ignorance, and plain stupidity that led to this predicament._. Now I am com· pelled to suffer the agony of despair, emptines~A life void of meaning. It's strange to see how one can take the beauty of freedom for granted . . . • For me, life continues to be a struggle, one obstacle after another. I thank God for the strength and will to persevere. I know it isn't easy to make it in this world. But, if you are reading this, you have an ad- vantage over me. I want you to .utilize this advantage. Whatever your ambitions, aspirations, or dreams may be--· believe in yourself, and you will succeed. Aim toward that positive goal and it · will be yours. When you apply yourself wholeheartedly to- any given task, it will be conquered. Failure cannot be omitted from life, we must come face-to-face with it; accept it, and challenge it against all odds. This is how one can procure any given desire. Day by day I wonder where all the new faces I see around . me come from? Take. my word for it, I am very sad, Like me, th~Y had to learn the hard way. · Well, f firmly proclaim this pen to be mightier than any .gun I've used.in the past. I .am using this · pentothe bestQfmy ability ..•. I keep on reloading, sooner or later, I'll hit my target. Just remember, I'm aiming for you. ... In. closing, I express my desire.to hear from you. A letter can make a gloomy day so bright .. Thanks for being there. I leave you with these words a · wise · man once said; \Itching for what yo_u want isn't enough, you've got to scratch for it.'' God Bless. Sincerely yours, Mr. S.B. Ventimiglia No. 77-A-2360 Auburn Corr. Facility Box618 Auburn, N.Y. 13021 All/etters to the editor must. be typed and received by CON- CORDIENSIS by 3 p.m. each Tuesday prior to P!}blication. SAVE AT ELEK·TEK TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 4 BA-ll 33 PC·200 (NEWI S2 BA-35 22, .. · TI·Pr(ljramlll3r 50 TI35·SP 17 Tf.5040·11 49 BA· 55 43 Sfiii Tl·5130 60 !I 55·11 33 . · Tl·5142·111 75 !157 29 BA-55 Tl-5219 130 Tl·66 NEWl 52 TI·53101NEWI 97 HEWLETT·PACKARD LCD PROBLEM SOLVERS HP-10C Scientmc..... . .. . .. . . .... $54 HP-11G Sc1ent1fic . . . . . . . . HP-15G SctenllfiC. .. . .. . . . ~ .. .. .. .. 90 HP-12G Financ1al ..................... 90 HP-16G Programmer . .. . 90 HP·41C $145 HP'41CV 200 Oot<catWanll 95 Card Reader 145 Punter i82143Ai 283 HP·ILI.C<ISSORIIS HP·Il Module 95 O<gllal Casselle Dr1ve 335 HP·Il Prmler 335 Acousl<c Modum 395 I I I I I I I I I I I I .. I I I I • MEMORY EXPANSION MODULES (HP-41) Tm1e Mcdule 60 Ext Memory Mcdule 60 Quad Module 60 Ext Function Module 60 WHILE liMiltD OUANliTIES LAST . (,~-6: ,1'4 Jr~ 'Til' St 1 gqesteOCI1ces -'1P· ;~l: Sc .,.,, f • 32 50 f.IP 34: s. ert'·\. 50 DO \\· J \EF •aoc,a 32 50 TOll FREE ORDER LINE . 800-621-1269 . EX(EPJIIIinois, AIGsko, Howoil \KEEP TillS AD FOR FunJRE REFERENC:EJ ITWIU NOT BE REPFATED Aut11ones di'ittwnltdtco. Mniltrwd or Vi111 by mail 01 ~ho~~e. Mail Uahier'! U.<k. lilm1y 01d, lm lht<k (2wk!lorlrl. So<ij \tO D.t lld14 00 I dom Sl 00 ea. oddhhpg I h\lt Shph 10 It oldon old oil In wb1 IO<hongo WRITI (\ <Oihl fer frtt <ottllf.lo.loy <rim lor dolodin ••nkooll\ eoly.ltl El!K·TIK MERCIIANOI!E I HIW, liT QUAlitY AND COMPL!IE. Editors-in-Chief News Editors Features Editor Associate Features Editors Acting Arts Editors ·Campus P~ge Editors Sports Editors Advertising Editors Layout Advisor Photo Editor Associate Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor · Political Cartoonist Julie Abelman, Doug Landon Jay Baruch, Gayle Rosenfeld Donna Getson · Dave Fitzgerald, Franklin Schneider Debbie Albert, Lori Kaplan, Karen Lissauer KarenGr~aves,. Jill Kaufman Drew Hurley, Paul Kurker Mary Ann Gagliardi, Heidi Rosen Peter Mohr Mary M. Phillips Daphne Chigas Robert Tang David Neiblum Staff . Photo Staff Lou George, Christine Marsching, Steve Piraino, Rob Rissell, Patti Sacks, Peter Stegeman, Scott Wycoff, Linda Zalmlenter BenHeckscher, Patti Sacks, Larry Shapiro CONCORDIENSIS is pUblished every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications; Inc., Box 388; Sidney, NewYork 13838 (607) 563- 7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as first class matter. Subscription rate, $18 per year; delivered anywhere in the UnitedStates. CONCOROmNSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), andutilizestheCollege News Bureau (CNB). Office TeleP,.hone ~ 37o.6155. .. . ' ~· I ..,.. / - - w Wlt< ·Rea tou~ for Kor SOD! ind1 SOUl san am< for· R, pun ecor dre' r'igh betr ·worl the shm ex~ adn1 So askE hjsc n toug pres The part for~ the atta1 TI at a Sect say real De Wei: mee· in fa the I case Nati supp Bt Shul for a The prep sane mild prop ·rn Shul: Rea1

... . CONCORDIENSJS, September 22. 1983 Pagell . COMMENTARIES Cqmmentary News ,From Wclshington . Bland and Boring ~y JACK ANDERSON and JOE SPEAR WASHINGTON-There is. an Wltold story behind President ·Reagan'.s decision not to take tough action against the Soviets for .shooting down the South Korean airliner . with .269 pera sons · abQard. The president indulged in some tough- sounding rhetoric, but the sanctions he announced amounted to a slap on the wrist for the Kremlin. Reagan's decisi<m not to · punish the Soviets, either economically or symbolically, drew cries of ,outrage from his right-wing supporters. They felt betrayed by the man they had · worked so diligently to put in the 'White House. Opinion polls · showed that the public also expected teugher action by the administration. So President Reagan has asked, rather plaintively, what his critics would have him do? The fact is there were some tough proposals mad~ to the president by his top advisers. The Defense Department, in particular, argued forcefully for sanctions that would punish the Soviets for their savage attack. The matter was thrashed out at a meeting of the National Security Council. Our sources say the meeting. turned into. a real donnybrook. Defense ~ecretary Casp~r Weinberger came to the meeting armed with arguments in favor of a tough response to the Soviets, and he pleaded ·his case in no uncertaintetms. 'The National Security Council staff supported Weinberger. But Secretary of State George Shultz argued just as forcefully for a more re~trained response. The State Department had prepared its own list of possible sanctions, and they were far milder than the Pentagon's proposals. · In the end, the president took Shultz's advice. Our sources say Reagan j>ersonally favored the more moderate course anyway. He .felt it would. help him: politically by moderating his image as a .trigger-happy cowboy. , \' We have learned, meanwhile, tha:t the' coldblooded Soviet attack was just the latest episode in a continUing drama in the .skie$, Other planes have strayed into Soviet airspace and been fired upon. In fact, the Russians have tried to lure planes into their airspace by scrambling navigational signals along their borders. The practice is ·called \meaconning.\ The un• suspecting pilot is \meacon- ned\ into forbidden Soviet skies. Then he may suddenly find himself the object of targetf practice by Soviet fighters. There have been several incidents; most have involved military reconnaisanc~ planes. The practice has become so conunon that pilots who fly near Soviet bord~rs are· given~ navigational maps with a special warning. 'l'hey are told that radio signals cannot be _ trusted and that they might be fired on if they stray off course. FOUL FOOD? Congress Will soon be investigating -a health threat that the American public is largely. unaware of-imported food contaminated by pesticides. As odd as it may Seem, the strict safety standards the goverrunent applies to food produced in this country are not enforced against imported products. Only abOut 1 percent of food from abroad is actually 'tested for P,oisonou.s residues. Yet it's precisely the .im- ported foodstuffs that should be most . strictly checked. Pesticides that American farmers are not allowed to use are sold overseas with no restrictions. And many foreign farmers don't use the poisons correctly. The result is dangerously high levels of chemicals in the food foreign nations sen to . American con· sumers. Hearing~; on the problem Will be held in the House of Representatives later this montt~. Senate action is also planned. POUTICAL POTPOURRI: The Republican National Committee quietly arranged for ,. a private poll to find out who is ahead in the Democratic . presidential race. When the results were in, former Vice President Walter Mondale led . Ohio Sen. John Glenn by just two percentage points. California Sen. Alan Cranston was third and Colorado Sen. Gary Hart was fourth. Republican leaders believe Mondale .would be the easiest contender for President Reagan to be~t. -The Republicans are looking for a person to run Reagan's re-election campaign. One of the names that has been tossed·around is Max Hugel~ the former deputy CIA. director for covert activities. He was forced out of the agency in 1981 for questionable financial dealings. FUTURE FILE: • Sen. William Roth, R-Del., will hold hearings on Pentagon ex- travagance next month. The areas his Government Affairs Committee will be looking into include excessive labor costs, sky-high profit margins for contractors, advance payments for employee vacation time and expensive government property· that is left unused. ~The United States is about ByNORMANBffiNBACH Correspondent-at-Large Clinton Aero Flight No. 364 to Albany Airport was late. I was there with another member of Union College's Speakers Forum to pick up that night's speaker. When the plane finally landed, he was the fiftb person off. The first thing I noticed was that the pubUcity photo had lied. He looked older in real life less vibrant: the skin around his eyes was more wrinkled• his hair was greyer, thinne~. He was wearing canvas tennis sn~akers, white pants, a blue shut, and a tan sports jacket. No patched jeans, no shirt made from the American flag. He could have been anyone's father. But he wasn't. He was Timothy Leary. The I.SD Doctor. He changed a generation. · I have grown up in the af- termath of ·the Sixties, in the late Seventies, in the early Eighties. Not much happened in the Seventies. Everyone was for himself in the \Me Decade.\ But in the Sixties, people came together. They boycotted and sat in; they protested and helped out. They did something. As I turn twenty and look around at the world, I wonder \What happened?\ to lose another friend m the Middle East. . Lebanese Pre.sident Amin G;emayel''s days in power are ·nllinbe.red. His authority has already crumbled drastically. In a matter of weeks, he'll be without any power at all. Our intelligence sources predict he'll be replaced by a govern- ment that is friendly to Syria, and that ~eans a government that is not friendly to the United States. · Where have all the activists gone? Copyright, 1983 United Feature Syndicate, Inc. \Twenty years ago,\ Timothy Leary said, as he buttered a roll at dinner, \people fucking .cared.\ That doesn't happen anymore, he said. The·reason: \Because this present generation is bland and boring.\ Bland and boring. ''Do something,\ he said. Interested in Working for the That night he told us to get involved. He told us that we, the yoll.ng generation, have the power in sheer numbers to move this country. We have the power to change. We should use that power, he told us. We should pressure our leaders. We Should make them do what we want, he told us. The problem with our generation. is that we don't care, that we don't ~et CONCORDIENSIS? Stop by the office- fourth fl.oor, Carnegie Hall or call x6l55 CONCORDIENSIS will be represented at the Activities Fair; Saturday, September 24~ 1 ·4 p.m. We need writers, photographers and typists as weu·· as people interested in subscriptions and a~vertising. · rri ABSOLUTELY R.tt=ust: 10 AiTEr.JD THE. u.w. G-ENE..RAL.. ASSE.MBLYII •• I MAG-t N 1::. J \THE. u. ~. RE.J: us ltv 6- TD S·E.RUl<:..'E. M'l- PLA-NE.! tH:>C\JT -r14E y KNDw THE. C:ovRTE.S re...s A-t\Jb Ru.L.Es Jtr.&AFtt>tl\tG- · C(VlLlA-N f\11\CA~,AFT t? ARe 1\1-tf:Y ~ e,M\SA(\\l- THA-T THEY • 'T H . . .. . AT -r H'E. Y. . . cowT ,.. t-t s:r . . . \;) H ••• \.IJ+H':>r> P.S , '' involved. We should get -in- volved. The people of the Sixties got involved and they changed this country, he said. Learn from them. I have trouble understanding the SiXties. The history courses I took throughout high school never made it past the Cold · War, despite the promiSes my teachers made. What I know of the Sixties comes from listening to the radio. I know more of that generation's music than I know ofthe social revolution it fought. I know The Dead, the Doors; Hendrix and Joplin; Dylan. I know about Haight-Ashbury, of Woodstock. I know that Leary was important in the Sixties, to the Sixties. He motivated a generation to \turn on, tune in, ~d drop out.\ He was im- portant, but two decades later, it is not easy to assess how in- fluential· he has been. Now, he goes around, speaking at colleges across the country, telling students what to do, and holding the Sixties up as the great example. Look at how great things were back then, he says, when people cared. For those of us growing up in the Eighties, that is our legacy from the Sixties: to be beholden unto them, to feel inferior because of them. But the Sixties were not great times. Yes, there was Civil Rights reform. But there were race riots no one talks about anymore, in New York, Pittsburgh, and in Detroit. Yes, there was a Sexual Revolution, and people were able to love whomever they were with. But we now live in an age of Herpes, of AIDS. The price paid may have been too much. Yes, people spoke out against injustice. But as soon as the Vietnam War ended, so too did most of the CoWlter-Culture, so too did most of the protests, the sit ins. Leary was part of one generation, the Sixties, but he no longer fits in, He\has lived too long. Leary has sold out in order to live in the Eighties-a metaphor, perhaps, because now more than ever, people are in college so they can get a job when they get out of college. The education is no longer important. The Eighties are not nearly as prosperous as were the Sixties. It is not e§§y to fight for others when you are trying to get by yourself. Yet, Leary is right-in a way. This generation has not done much. But now people are getting more in· volved, in their own way. What was appropriate then; in the Sixties, is no longer ap- propriate. Each generation has its own battles to fight. To Leary, we are bland, boring. But, I said, this is only 1983. We've still got another seven years to prove ourselves. Commentaries Represent the Views of the Author and not the . Editorial ·Board of Con- :cordiensis.

Page 12 CONCORDIENS/S, September 21, 1981 THE ARTS I D 0 /ize • Community Arts Calend.ar By GLENN PEARL \There's too much going on, and not enough happening at Union.\ This is a generic for- mulation of a kind of common cry, which is familiar to most returning students. I take ·•happening\ to· mean sub- stantial, heartfelt, lasting. If I am off the mark and this hick of happening is not as widespread as I believe it is,. so let it be. I would not hesitate to predict, however, that many freshmen will soon be hearing, feeling, and even finding this complaint in their own voices. organizatiol). It sponsors moderate pep, but no remedies. More importantly the Idol sponsors activities which have the potential of being su~ · stantial, heartfelt, lasting. The potential, of course, depends , upon personal involvement. Theatre · Sept. 23: Three Faces by Chekov. Recital Hall, SUNY A Performing Arts Center, 8:30p.m. Sept. 23-25: The Mikado. SUNY A Performing Arts Center, 8 :·00 p.m. Sept. 24: Rodney Dangerfield. Coliseum Theatre, Latham, 7 & 10 p.m., Red Skelton, Proctor's· Perhaps l have started this article off in the wrong fashion: offering a short general analysis of a widespread problem, and nowoffering the obvious remedy, or a pep talk. I would say fortunately for you this article offers no remedies, or pep talk. Far from that, my intention is to call attention to a small, but important organization on campus: the Idol. The Idol is Union's literary The Idol's primary activities include publishing one or two magazines of student work, and bringing in contemporary writers to speak and read from their works. Of course, I en- courage everybody to watch for Idol notices and participate in some way. I particularly en- courage those interested in writing and the potential it holds--that of creating a georgraphy of experience, informing and questioning the P.ast, present, and future-in short, of creating a happening. This invitation extends to professors, from all disciplines, whose support and leadership have been sorely missing in this area. Again, please be alert for notices. The Idol box is 2526 for more inunediate infonnation. I Concert Band By ROBJN MOLELLA For some unexplained reason, Union College boasts a large number of students who are able to play musical in- strwnents, but no longer play. There is also an equally large number of students who are unaware that the college has a concert band that provides an opportunity to continue playing. The Union College Concert Band had its first organizational meeting Thursday, September 15. One of the major purposes of the mee.ting was the introduction of Thomas A. Brown, who has been chosen to serve as the conductor of the band. Mr. Brown has worked as an instructor and conductor at various area colleges including the College of Saint Rose, Skidmore, and Schenectady County Community College. The appointment of an ad· junct faculty member to con- duct the band signifies the administration's commitment to strengthening the Arts at Union. It is also the ad- ministration's way of recognizing the band's success thus far. Mitch Miller, president of the organization expressed his desire to see more people in- volved. The primary objective of the band in this stage of its development is to get as many people playing as possible. The band strives to provide three to five quality performances a year. No musician should feel intimidated, because there are no auditions or cuts. The band also can rent instruments for those who don't own their own. The mood at the meeting was very enthusiastic. Many special concert possibilities are being explored. These include a possible overnight excursion, and guest concerts in the area. All interested musicians are invited to attend rehearsals which are held Thursday evenings from 6:30 to 8:30 in Memorial Chapel. If you'd like more infonnation look for the Concert Band booth ·at the Student Activities Expo. ~ational <!College -~oetrp <!tontr%t - - Fall Concours 1983 - - open to all college and universaty students desiring to have their poetry anthologized. CASH PRIZES will go to tho top five poems: $100 $50 $25 $15 Fourth First Place Second Place Third Place $10 Filth AWARDS of free printing for ALL accepted manuscripts m our popular, handsomely bound and copyrighted anthology, AMERICAN COL LEG lATE POETS. Deadline: October 31 CONTEST RULES AND RESTRICTIONS: 1. Any student is eligible to submit his or her verse. 2. All entries must be original and unpublished. 3. All entries must be typed, double·spaced, on one side of the page only. Each poem must be on a separate sheet and must bear. in the upper left· hand corner, the NAME and ADDRESS Of the student as well as the COLLEGE attended. Put name and address on envelope also! 4. There are no restrictions on form or theme. Length of poems up to fourteen lines. Each poem must have a separate title. (Avoid \Untitled\!) Small black and white illustrations welcome. 5. The judges' decision will be final. No info by phone! 6. Entrants should keep a copy of all entries as they cannot ·be returned. Prize winners ancl all authors awarded free publication will be notified immediately after deadline. J.P. will retain first publication rights for accepted poems. Foreign language poems welcome. 1. There is an initial one dollar registration fee for the first entry and a fee of fifty cents for each additional poem. It is requested to submit no more than ten poems per entrant. 8. All entries must be postmarked not later than the above deadline and fees be paid, cash, check or manoy order, to: INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATIONS P. 0. Box 44-L Los Angeles, CA 90044 Theatre, 8p.m. , ~ Sept. 26: Paul Zaloom & Steve Fisher, 3rd·Street Theatre, 8 p.m. Sept. 30: Pump Boys and Dinettes, Proc:;tors, 8 p.m. ' . ' (Jfr~ Music Sept. 24: Paul Kaplan, 8th Step Coffee House, Albany, 3·p.m. · Sept. 25: Er:nerson String Quartet. South Mountain Concerts; MA. 3 p.m., 413-442·2l06. Sept. 30: Mttchell Korn. Schoharie Central High School 8 p.m. Sept. 30: Aii Eisinger. 8thStep Coffee House, Albany, a':45 p.m. Sept. 23-25:.~y Dinner with Andre. 3rdStreet Theatre, 7 and 9:25p.m. Sept. 25: Wtlbe Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. Albany Public Library, 1 p.m. Sept. 27: Cimmaron. Albany Public Library, 2& 7:30p.m. Sept. 27-29: Bongo Man & Bob Marley in Memoriam. 3rdStreet Theatre, 7 & 9:40p.m. Sept. 30: Hideous Sun Demon. 8th Step Coffee House, 8:45p.m. Sept. 30: L'·Etoile DuNord. 3rdStreet Theatre, 7 & 9:20p.m. Sept. 29, 30, & Oct. 1: Performing Arts Center, SUNY A, 8:00p.m. Deadhe·ads Unite AUDITIONS Rock music will make its debut at the Olympic Center October 17 with a rare ap- pearance by the Grateful Dead, one of the. most popular rock groups of all time. Tickets go on sale 9 a.m. Tuesday, September 20 at the Olympic Center Box Office, Ticketron · and the. Olympic Center's regular ticket outlets. All seats, priced at $12.50, are reserved. \This is a continuation of the efforts by the Olympic Authority to offer a wide range of entertainment events,\ said Olympic Authority President Ned Harkness. The Dead have produced over 15 albums since they began playing together over 18 years ago. The group is molded around lead guitarist and vocalist Jerry Garcia. The other members are Bob Weir, rhythm guitar and vocalist; Phil Lesh, base; Mickey Hart and Bill Kreutzmann, drwn 8 mers; and Brent Mydland, key boardist. Grateful Dead fans, known as · \Dead Heads/' have become nearly as famous as the group itself for their loyalty and rabid -support. The \Dead Heads\ travel to all parts of the country to attend GratefUl Dead con- certs. The Dead established a record with eight sell-out perf{)nnances at Radio City Music Hall in New York. The Union College Coffeehduse Lisa. Smith and Suzy Bogguss Friday, September 23 at 8:30p.m, in the Cabaret Room Admission $1.50 final night's show was telecast via closed circuit to 20 cities. Mountebanks Fall Term production Bu~ Stop will be held Thursday, September 22 at7:45ir:~theNott Currently in production with another album, the Dead will be appearing during the week of September 19-23 on NBC Overnight and the Today Show. OCTAVIO SINGERS will have open audition on September 26, at 7:30 p.m. at First Reformed Church, Schenectady. Call 381-9444 for more informati.on. The Dead began their career in California and all members of the group reside in Orange County. The Dead no longer tour, but select a limited number of engagements around the country. / PHOTOGRAPHERS! There will be a meeting for those interested for taking· pictu·res Concordiensis today Thursday, Sept. 22 at 4:00, 4th floor Carn·egie. in the if you are unable to attend contact Mary- 6857· COURT GESTURES The Zany Comedy Group WANTS YOU!! Auditions: Sat., Sept. 26 - 10 a.,m. Mon., Sept. 26-9 p.m. Sta-ge _I I Carnegie ,.. - .. •• ) ':.0 ,. ' ..,.. < ' Ul .e. .s::: a. )>.. I.. .. Ill :E ;:... .c (I) 0 - 0 .s::: c. . \.. ~

lt ., .. . ,., - .. , _ ... ; ... .... CQNCfJRDIENSIS; September 22, 1983 Page13 seY • • • • ,fo Un1on Saturday, September _24th, 198·3 1·4 p.m. in front of Carnegie Hall (Raindate: Sunday, Sept. 25th) . Don't mi$S your chance to sign up for any dub, com .. mi·ttee, or student ·org~nization you wish to loin! Balloons . Popcorn . Pretzels · Cider . Penn~ Candy Stand · -WRUC.RECORD HOP- come get your \fUppy fly•r''' Pick up valuable·couponsf.or ROLLERSKATING Canal Square andother downtown sponsoredby Social Committee stores and restaurants!.! 50 e 1 hour The Expo is Coming What are you 4oing this booth~. roller skates can be Saturday froml-4:00 p.m.? If rented for 50 cents an hour. For you find yourself without an those who prefer a slower paced answer, nothing to do ot Without afternoon, muns:hies and cider direction, the Expo is the place will be for sale. All students, to be. On September 24th, the especially new students should Annual Activities Expo will be take advantage of this op- held in front of Carnegie Hall. portunity to meet the school's This year's theme is uEXPOse student leaders and become yourself to Union\. Leaders familiar with the activities from all of the school's student offered at Union. This will also organizations will be at the fair provide. students with ~ in· exposing their activities. formation and coupons from the Anyone interested in joining a · local merchants in downtown student run club or organization \_Schenectady and since it is the is urged to attend. This year, to only exposition of its type this make it easy to see all of the year, don't miss it! ! W\l STUDENTS ARE IX POSED ..

.. Page 14 CONCORDIENSJS. September 12, 198~ uarterly Specials Munch, m~nch, munch ••• Tl:le m~;~nchies are after you. There is only one way to stop them ... a hot, fresh, made-to-order pizza with 100% real dairy cheese; Domino's ~izza ._._ ® will deliver it to your door in 30 minutes or less. When YOll get the urge for something to munch on, call Domino's Pizza ... bef.ore 'it's too late I Domino's Pizza Delivers.\' Ca·ll us. 372-4441 1·27 NOTT 'T..ERRACE SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Hours: 4:30 • 1:00 Sun.- Thurs. 4:30 • 2:00 Frl & Sat. ~ We use only 100% real dairy cheese. , Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Umlted delivery area. Cl-1983 DO!IIino'a Pizza.. Inc 10.0 . Quarterly Specia s SAVE $15.00 l ----------------;;~-:.:~:~:~---1------------------:;~:;::;:;,:---r-------;:Fi~E-i-iriEiV\ ______ _ 2-ttem or more p1~ 1 ttem or more pizza : • • $2 OO ~:ir~~~pon per P•zza $ 1 OO· ~:~~~~~pon per pizza ~ on any S·IZe pazz. o .....- . · .. · 1 small 0 • Fast. Free Delivery • Faat, Free Delivery • · 127 NOTT TERRACE 127 NOTT T-ERRACE I large D SCHENECTADY,N.Y. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. I 372-4441 372-4441 EX P. 1 2.'3\1183 ----------~--~~---------------i---~-~~ $2.00 off any 16R I I I 372-4441 I I I I I I I I I I · Fast, Free Delivery 127 NOTT TERRACE SCHENECTADY, N.Y. EXP. 12/3l/83 ~M•-------------------•••-L---~---~--------------~-~---••• . I $1.00 off any Size FREE ITEM $2 OO ~~r~~~~~~ .. • ·Fast, Free Delivery I I I I \ 1 item or more pizza $1. . .OO On~·co'upon par pizza . ·. Exp1res: II · Fast, Free Delivery I I I I I I I I I on any size pizza- small 372-4441 127 NOTT TERRACE SCHENECTAOY,N.Y. EXP. 12/31/83 127 NOTT TERRACE SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 372·4441 EXP. 12/31/83 ' 1 a· I I 372-4441 I Fast, Free Deillvttry ; , 127 NOTT TERRACE I SCHENECTADY, N.Y. EXP. 12/3i/83 large. I I I ---------- ____ ..,; _________ -------,.--- - ... --------------·-------·-- ----f---------·---------\'!'-- --------- $2.00 off any 1s· $2 00 ~~~.~~0~~::~~ Exp.res: • Fast. Free Delivery 127 NOTT TERRACE SCHENECTADY,N.Y. 372-4441 EXP. 12/31.{83 $1 $1.00 off any Size 1 item or more pizza · 00 One coupon per pizza Expires: • · Faa~ Free Delivery 127 NOTT TERRACE SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 372-4441 1 I I I I I I I I I FREE EXTRA THICK CRUST on any size pizza- small 0 •372-4441 larg~ Fast, Free Delivery 127 NOTT TERRACE SCHENECTADY, N.Y. EXP. 12/31/83 _.__. EXP. 12/31/83 . ~------~~----------------~---~,--------------~~--------~--------t-------------------------~----- If your pizza does not arrive within 30 minutes, !)resent this couoon to the driver for $1.00off ,. your pizza 30 mInute Fast, Free Deliverv\' guarantee 127 NOTT TERRACE SCHENECTADY, N.Y. a~372-4441 mm® EXP. 12131/83 I I I 30 minute g,uarantee If your pizza does not arrive within30 minutes, present this cou~:;~on to t~e driver for S1. 00 off your pizza Fast, Free Dellverv'\ 127 NOTT TERRACE SCHENECTADY, N.Y. a~.372-4441 mm® 1 . I I I I I I I FREE EXTRA THICK CRUST on any size pizza- small 0 372-4441 Iorge Fast, Free Delivery 127 NOiT TERRACE SCHENECTADY, N.Y. I EXP. 12/31/03 EXP, 12/31/83 I . ... ______ ... __ ..... .;a.. ........... _. .. _________ ... _____________ ._. _______________ .. ____ .. ________ _._ ~-----~------------ - . . Menu Our Superb Cheese Pizza 12\ cheese ·, 16\ cheese ·oomino's Deluxe 5 1tems for the pnce of 4 Pepperoni Mushrooms. Or.uons. Green Peppers. and Sausage .·12\ Deluxe 16' Delv~e The Vegi 5 •tems for the pnce of 4 Mushrooms. Olives. On1or:ts. Green Peppers, and Do .... ble Cheese 12\ yegi 16\ Veg• Additional Items Pepperon• • Mushrooms Omons Green Peppers Olives Sausage . Ground Beef Hot Peppers Double Cheese Extra Thick~ Crust 12\ pina 16\ pizza . . . . . . fff;)e .... D.'''ver~ ·Call .u·s.- 372-4441 127 NCJTT iERRACE 'SCHENECTADY, N.Y. •t\i! .. ~· . 1' I • • J : ft I\ c 1. tl c c E F A v a n c 0 i! ~ S; g s c b Il [ • s aJ 0 :M 'P B Tl N PI

.. ,, , \ CONCORDIENSIS, September 22, 1983 Page 15 VOL.UNTEERS The freeze Walk, national fundrai$ing effort of the Nuclear Weapons Freeze Campaign will be held October p.m. Ia room 3U, Baney Hall, Union College. · HELP WANTED luck on your LSATs . . . the . Paper Chase begins! ! Love, P.S. '83 B.art--What do you say- Happy Hour .at Hogates this Friday?! Fran, Jons, Paul,. Jill, Laura, Etc ..... \It's always foggy at Foggy Bottom ..... It's always sunny at Capitol South.\ Suite 260-I Love You.-Noogie CAMPUS NEWS Please Note · 1. Local walks will be held throughout the ·23rd and 24th Congressi.onal Districts, coordinated by the Upper Hudson Nuclear Weapons Freeze Campaign, 727 Madison Avenue, Albany. Walkers and volunteers to assist in planning and coordinating the walks needed--to become involved, call Jeanne Casatelli at 477-6618 or 463-0644. PART-TIME POSITION available for college student to represent travel company on campus. Earn comntission, free travel and work experience. Contact: Beachcomber Tours, Inc., 1325 Millersport HGWY., Williamsville, N.Y. 14221. Phone 716-63~723. fo the ex-213 Davidson -..I!IIIIIJ~[!I!II!!!!III!IIIIII!I!!III~----·· contingent: the best year ever AU forms for personals and classified ads are available at the Student Activities Booth. Forms are to be typed and submitted by Tuesday, 4:30p.m. clAsS.1F. zrfj'Ds. I and ytlhinlov~, yAlo~. Thanks for D. ever . g.. 1. The Niskayuna School System is looking for students who are interested. in teacbJng after- school classes to students in grades K~li. Topics include science, foreign language, computers, crafts, dance, and bicycle m aint en a nee. Interested students can contact Darlene Ward at x6172. · SPEAKERS Union College Adminlstrative and Engineering Systems Colloquium presents speaker Mr. Wallace M. Campbell, ' President, Northeast Savings Bank,. He will speak on \As Thrifts Enter a New Era, Northeast Savings Goes Public'\ on September 22 at 3:45 'For sale; desk,.·modern·-7 drawers, like new-393u1001~70. FORSALE: TYPEWRITER-- (Royal)-$50-393-1001. PERSONALS Ka-Only 65 , more days until Nov. 26. I miss you!!!!!! Hold . on!! ! Love, Sue W2-Yougotjui.ce, Mama! H - -W2 Lenny-By the time you get to Law School, you won't have any brain cells left. Take it easy O.K.! Stacy Ken L., 'Fran L., Hank H., Dave K., and Susie K.: Good MASS MAILIN;G RULES~FOR EVERYONE The Student .Affairs Office is no longer responsible for the Student Mailroom in any way. The Central Mail Service is now supervising the operation of the Student Mailroom. If you have any ques.tions regard,ing the Student Mailroom, please contact Lauri.e Colapinto at ext. 6372. · • All mass-mailings will be done by the mailroom staff, regardl.ess of the size of the. · mailing. Absolutely NO ONE will be allowed in the back of the mail room for any reason. • All mass-mailings should be delivered to the mailroom 3 days prior to the desired d~livery date to insure delivery. • To insure' proper handling and delivery of the mail, each article should be addressed with the ·recipient's full name and box number, as well as the return address. Any mass-mailing without box numbers will be returned to the sender. • All mass-mailings must be in NUMERICAL BOX ORDER, or else it will be returned to the sender. (Note: Student boxes run from numbers 1 to 2325, and from 2501 to 2596 for fraternities and clubs. Numbers in the :ZBT directory starting with '6' are phone numbers, not box numbers.) • All mass-mailings must be on pieces of paper measuring at least 4\ x 4\ or else it will be returned. • Mail delivered to students whose boxes are temporarily closed will be returned to the . sender. • As an added service, we wi U now be able to deliver mass-mailings to a particular class, i.e.; the freshmen, sophomores, runiors or seniors. Simply indicate· on the mailing w.hich class it should go to, if it applies. The Student Mailroom ·is now open from 8 a..m.-8 p.m. The window service is open from 10 a.m.-4 p.m. The window service is closed from 12:00 to 1:00 p.m. MARIA: Happy Birthday roommate! Carolyn and Maria: We hope YO!l both have excellent bir- thdays! With Love, Your Sisters and Pledges CHERI: I missed you lots this suminer. Let's get psyched for an excellent tenn!l! And the bet about Homecoming is still ()n •.. Love, YFEx THREE FOURTHS: I miss you guys so much! Let's not be strangers, O,K? Love ya, ONE FOURTH. P .S. I hear there is a sale on cucumbers at Chopper! ! ! To all SDr Sisters living Off- Campus and in North: We miss you in the house! Don't be strangers. And don't worry, we'll save ·any extra food for you guys to take home! GRAND OPENING October 1 1 1983 ' . Volunteers Needed For Tricentennial Rlln The Northeastern New York Chapter of the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation is in need of volunteers to hel·p with the Capita land AMC-Jeep- Renault Dealers AssociaUon Tricentennial: lOK Run on October 1, 1983. Volunteers are needed for registration tables, tr.affic control, handing runners water, and attending the fin ish I in e. All volunteers will receive .a free t- shirt just for helping, along with free beer and soda after the race. To volunteer or for more inf()rmation please call the Cystic Fibros.is Foun- dation office at 489-2677. GRAND OPENING October 1 I 1t83 Sports Store On Campus KEMP'S Sporting Goods Rte. 9 Latham 15th Street, Troy O·PENING NEW LOCATION Achilles Rink Union College Stocking -Sweat Clothing - N ike Shoes -Gym Shorts - Basketballs ~Baseball Undershirts -Soccer Balls -Tube· ~ocks -Footballs - Supporters - Racquetba II Racquets -Mouth Piec:es - Racquetball Access. -Shoelaces -Tennis Balls -Hockey Accessories, Uniforms, Catalogs & Etc. STORE HOURS: Mon.-Fri. 12:30. p.m.-7:30p.m. Saturdays 12 noon-4 p.m. Sundays 12 noon-5 p.m. Student Environmental Alliance Genera I Meeting Thursday, Sept. 22 in the SEA Room at 8:00 4th Floor Carnegie Your help is needed Posters Godiva Cllocolates Kites • Teddy Sears 10% ofl with Union ID thru Sept. Open 10:30-5:30. Thurs. to8:30 164 Jay Street Schenectady, l\lew York 12305 Phone 5111·374-2B03

I • .~. . ' Poge16 CONCORDIENSlS, September_ 22, 1983 Plenty of FREE Parking DISCOVER Walking Distance from (UNIO.N THE COLONIAL PETAL DISTINCTIVE FLORAL DESIGNS AND COLONIAL GIFTWARE (518) 377-6648 131 CANAL SQUARE SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 1230~ Fresh Flowers Roses· Corsages. · & Arrangements •••••••••• with this coupon $2.00 off any hanging plant valid thru Nov. 1 ........... ·We Wire Worldwide! Open evenings 'til 9 tradition a I sty.ied Sport Coats qnported ... all wool Yorkshire tweed ... Very British! in short.. regular and long. Our regular. $185. $139.90 rJi9.UI~Ji-leJ GCAl'f3L cJCQUCA1<!J, efGHE.NgGTGACOCV Hours: Daily til9 Sat. filS qine Glothiel1 e)ince 1939 MEN'S AND WOMEN'S TAILORED CLOTHING ,8. SPORTSWEAR Mastercharge Vis~ American Express FrEle Parking on Broadway Adjoining Our Rear Entrance A Boutique featuring neat clothing, jewelry and accessories \Welcome Back Union, We Missed You!!\ 15% discount with this ad Good from Sept. 23 thru Oct. 1 133 CANAL SQUARE DOWNTOWN SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 370-4288 370 BROADWAY DOWNTOWN SARATOGA, N.Y. 587-8007 Women's Sportswear ~ by the pool lai...te · . unger.ie ga inc. •hs~!~t~::!s Schene.ctady, N.Y. A Touch of New England Comes to Schenectady New Englanb IJ;utJgr o.tn.. 1Jnt. Canal Square, ''Behind Proctors\ Schenectady Come try our· Fudge, Fudge-Covered Apples, Butter Crunch & e. ~\..so Peanut Brittle \\C.~~tt\{ . (made on premises) Kopper Cordials. • Liquor-Flavored Truffles Salem Old-Fashioned Candies & P,reserves Asst. Chocolates V- .....-~ \.... \.} -N-a-ut-ic.-· a-1 G-i-fts----0-ii_P .... a ..... in-tin ..... g_,_s 10% Discount with this ad on 112 lb. or more of fudge 393-8684 10% off: software with this ad · and valid I D (thru 10/8/83) (::commodore§~ Student Aids Fun Easy Finance I, 1.1, Ill, IV21.95 Jumpman Practicale 49.95 Neutral Zone Logo 49.95 Lazarian Easy Script 44.95 Omega Race Assembler 19.95 CP/M 6~95 Modem Hardware Software Books- Mags Video Machines Movie Rentals Telephones 123 Broadway at Canal Square • 382·3896 32.95 31.95 24.95 29:95 11\1)\~ll~&~ (SJII€eO~JEMPORIUM Welcomes Back Union College ·students PIZZA Cheese Ex. Cheese Sausage Mushroom Pepperoni Green Peppers • Meatballs Onions Anchovies Any Add Item Papa Cicco's Deluxe NYS Style Sicilian Style (Deepdish) 4 cut 8 cut 12 cut 24 cut 2.75 4.50 5.50 8.75 3.25 5.50 6.50 10.50 3.25 5.50 6.50 10.50 3.25 5.50 6.50 10.-50 3.25 5.50 6.50 ~ 0.50 3.25 5.50 6.50 10.50 3.25 5.50 6.50 10;50 3.25 5.50 6.50 10.50 3.25 5.50 6.50 10.50 .50 .75 1.00 1.75 5.50 9.50 12.00 21.00 ITALIAN SANDWICHES Meatball · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 2.20 Egg Plant Parmigiana 2.70 Meatball Parmigiana ......•.. 2.60 Steak. . . · · · · · · · · 2 80 Sausage . · '· .. · · · · · · · · · · · · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 2.20 Salami & Provalone 2 80 Sausage Parmi · · · · · · · · · · · · · · gtana · · · · · · · · · 2.60 ProsCJotto & Provalone 3 25 Sausage & Peppers . . . . . . . . . . 2.45 · · · · · · · --CALLUS- FREE· DELIVERY Phone: 37 4-4332 109 Canal Square, Broadway, Schenectady SPECIAL: Until September 30th FREE 32oz. Coke with purchase of $4.50 or more PLUS: New coupons are available Collect them for FREE pizza & beer NEW HOURS MONDAY- THURSDAY 11 a.m.- 11 p.m. FRIDAY- SATURDAY 11 !l.m. • 12 p.m. SUNDAY 3 P•m.- 11 p.m. T.G.I.F. PARTY FRIDAY 5 PM . , . .. •• I I I· 1-· I I I I I I I I I I 'I I I I I I I I L.l

··~ . , .. CONCORDIENSIS, September22, 1983 SHOP EVENINGS UNTIL.9 PM Pogel7 •••••••••~••·•••.COUPON ••••••••••••••1 I CARLCO. I BATTERY REPLACEM,ENT J. . With this coupon I 1-· and your Union College I.D. 1 I . I I I s· I ! .·. • .. ·. OFF I - I ! AN.Y REGULAR PRICED I See us fora complete selection of popular types. W!j;lttlll The choice of manufacturers worldwide. for Popular Makar Watches- • Bulova, Casio, Citizen, T.l., andTimeK &alculators -Canon, Casio, Commodore, Royal, Sharp, T.L. Toshiba and Unisonic I I ' c R I SWEATER I TIME ENTE I lnOurJr.orYoungMen's :1. J~LEJt .. ·s I I ~ . I Departments I . .. siNce 1918,.. . : 428 State St. Three Doors. From Proctors I I Downtown Schenectady, (518) 374-0183 I . Canal Square Store Only -Good 'til Sat •• Sept. 24 I We're old enough to know better. '-••~•••••••••iii•I'COUPON•••·•••••••~•••I '------------· --' _____ __. O~n Evening• 'tll9 p.m. ARNOW'S open evenings 'til 9 Where Class Begins ... . • • put a little class in your. step . . . Ortl Open . . . Evenings 'ti19 p.m. SHOES . 428 State Street'\ Downtown Sc&-fatly • .. t1tt heart tf (emil Square Anaconda-KaJe Sports, Inc .. \ 440 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 with this ad get ... $2.00 off already 10% di~counted prices on all sneakers, running shoes and cleats offer expires Sept. 30 The \Home Shop\ Something Special · Mon.- Fri., 10·9 BROAOWAY ENTRANCE 374-1790 Sot., ID·~ af CANAL SQUAIIE ' Wrap Up Your Shower! in a big Bath Sheet ( 36\ X 72\) with free monogramming th.ru Sept. 30 107 BROADWAY (CanaJ Square) Schenectady, NY Tel. 393-5429 Open Mon.-Sat. 11:30-9:30 ''Come. and hove the finest Chinese food in the llrea'' Alllfnion Students get Gne ( 1 ) FREE Glass of beer with dinners (nights only) A Unique Shopping Experience Canal S_quare of downtown Schenectady is holding a one week promotion in our honor from Sept. 23to ~ept. 30. Special events and discounts throughout the 25 unique stores are planned. A kick-off for the -week will begin with a WELCOME BACK T.G.I.F. Party to be held at Canal Square this Friday from 5 p.m. to 7:30p.m. T.G.I.F.s are an extremely popular social event held every Friday evening around the canal in the Canal Square's Courtyard. This Friday Canal Square is celebrating its Grand Finale for the season and holding the event in honor of Union College. Beer, wine, soda, and live en- tertainment featuring \Out of Control\ wi-ll be provided. Upper classmen as well as freshme11 are invited. Canal Square is within walking distance from Union. It is a uni<tue shopping develop- ment that features 25 shops, boutiques, and interesting restaurants covering one block- :-State StJ;eet, Broadway, around the courtyard and Sn'lith Street promenade restored in an appealing fashion. Notice the wide selection of sales in this edition of the Concordiensls newspaper and then stroll downtown and wander through the h~art of downtown SChenectady, Canal Square. From Candy to Clothes 1 Crafts to Costmnes, from Fudge to Flowers, to Insurance and Ice Cream, Canal Square has it all! A unique buying experience • . .all your shopping needs in one block ... Canal has it all! See you .Friday! Outdoor Happy Hour • Canal Square Courtyard Wine e Beer • Soda • Live Entertainmen,t • Everyone Invited!

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, Septemb~r}2. 1983 SPORTS . . • enters Second Season as Varsity Sport Women's Soccer: A .Building Program ByGAC..SID Since its berth as a club sport in the fall of 1980, the Union College women's. soccer program has averaged about 25 participants a seaS6n. However, despite the high level of in- terest, the team has been tmable to produce a victory and heads into its second season as a ·1arslty sport with an 9-25 ;·ecord. ·The 1983 Dutchwomen, and their new head coach, are determined to end that losing :.ireak and at the same time begin building a solid basis -for a · ~tr<>ng program in the future. Martha \Marty\ Morrison, who has been at the Schenec- tady college since 1977, has taken over the reigns and is hopeful of removing the losing stigma that has haunted the Dutchwomen since their birth tllree years ago. Morrison previously coached the field hoek~y to a six-year record of 42-27-3 (including co11secutive berths in the New York State AIAW playoffs in 1979 and 1980) dudng the falJ term. During the spring, Morrison has turned around the women's lacrosse team and led it to its first winning season ever (6-5 . in 1980) and to the best record in the. short history of the sport at Union (8-3 in 1981). ''I look forward to the challenge,\ said Morrison. \'I think we have a lot of potential this year, aqd with all the un~ derclassmen we have, I think we could go a long way in building the foundation for a solid program.\ Sophomore Mary Foley was a starter at forward. I~ year and will be counted on to hold together a young line that will include classmates Ast'rid Morsch, Maureen Coleman, and Jessie Ruoff. At mid-field, junior transfer Lisa Rathbun will team with sophomore Rebecca Clemente and senior Mei Ching Tse. Clemente, Union's female \Rookie of the Year\ in 1982, was a starter while Tse is one of only two wDmen still remaining from the 1980 team. Morrison feels her strength could be on defense this year where sophomores Lynn Sakala and Patty Richards · will team with senior Louise Fischer at fullback. Richards is a retur- ning starter while Sakata, though out for the team for tile first time, played. for Galway's high school team. In goal, sophomore Monica Lobel is battling senior Jane Webb for the starting berth. Webb is the other woman who has been on the squad since it began. Morrison, noting the team's scoring history (17 goals in 25 games over three years), is confident . that ''this year's edition will put some points on the board. She feels she has solid shooters in Faulkner, Soley, Rathbun, and Morsch. Overall, however, she is !()()king to turn the program around. \The first win will obviously be a great boost forthis team,\ she said. \My biggest goal for this season is to remove the moneky from this team's back and build confidence, not only for this year, but for future seasons.\ Athlete of the Week Billy Huttner evades tacklersenroute to his 138 yards on nine carries. A.thlete of the ... Week By DREW HURLEY Sports Staff C()ngratulations to Dutchman speedster Bill Huttner for garnering athlete of the week and kicking off another year of the Decrescente Dist. Co. sponsored Athlete of the Week honors. The 5'6\ 160 pound senior led the Dutchmen's ground game with 138 yards on just nine carries. In the third quarter, Huttner registered his longest touchdown frQm scrimmage with a 72-yard run. He currently has 1,512 career rushing yards with twelve rushing touchdowns and three touchdown recep- tions. . Billy, a four-year · starter for Union, was named \Rookie of the Year\ by the Times-Union in 1980. An economics major, Huttner hails from Old Bridge, New Jersey, and is a Delta Upsilon br9ther. Good luck to Al Bagnoli's squad as they face the Statesmen of Hobart in Geneva Saturday. HEYMAN! Rei ive the Sixties at SDT 1 S ''60's Party•• Tuesday, Sept. 27 at 10 p.m. 60's cattire r~quested -Intramural Notes ~ The deadlines to submit entries for te,ams and events are as foll,ows: Event Ice Hockey Broomball X·Country Run Field Goal Kick Bi·lliards Due oa.te sept. 26 Oct, 3 Sept. 28 Sept. 30 Sept. 29 Tennis Ge·ts Mean(s), ByCNB. Annabel Means has been appointed to a part-time position as Union College's head women '.s tennis coach it was,. announced by athletic director Richard Sakala. Means is a resident . of Schenectady. She has been a tennis instructor since 1976 and has ta tight tennis at Niskayuna's continuing ed,ucation program for adults and at · the Schenectady Women's Tennis Association. In 1973, Means was president of the SWTA. Last year, Means ranked 13th among the Eastern Tennis Association's Women's Singles. She has captured the Schenectady County Women's Singles title six times, including ' last year's event, and has been runnerup five times. In 1983, Means posted vic- tories in the Women's 40 Singles in Coral :Beach, Bermuda, the Capital OTB Women's 35 singles in Schenectady, the Northern New Jersey Women's 40 singles, and the -Lake Placid Women's Open Singles. She was rUilllerup in the New York State Women's 35 Doubles in Bayside, Long Island, and in the Northern New Jersey Women's 40 Doubles. Means was a third-round loser in the United States Grasscourts Senior Nationals last year at Forest Hills. The Dutchwomen opened their season yesterday facing Colgate. Means replaces Lesfie Arakelian. Field Hockey Young ByCNB Rookie head coach Charlyn Robert is looking for at least a .500 season from her very young field hockey team this fall. The Dutchwomen, 7-6 a year ago, have lost nine players (severn starters) from last season's team. Robert will be working with a Squad that includes six fresbrilen, six sophomores, one junior, and only one s~ilior. ''Individually we have ·a good deal of talent,\ said the en- thusiastic first year mentor. \The thing we have to work on is bringing that talent together as a unit. I feel the key to our season will be· how quickly we matur~_:.unQ.er game conditions. With so many freslnnen and underclassmen, we really haven't learned to anticipate each others' moves yet.\ Union's forward line will be anchored by junior Diane Moskaluk who led the team in scoring last season· with eight goals, six assists for 14· p{lints. In her -two-year career, Moskaluk has tallied eleven goals. Senior Mary McGrath returns after a year's absence due to taking a term abroad. As a freshman, McGrath had one assist and then tallied a goal with two assists in her sophomore season. Freshinen Nora Tuthill and Lillian Tyree will be the other two starting forwards for the Dutchwomen. Tyree was an all-league. player for Southampton High School ' last season. At link, sophomore Cheryl Washburn returns, as the third- leading scorer from the 1982 campaign. She ~allied four goals and an assist. The rest of the links are inexperienced at the college level. Elaine Pick and Frances Czajka are both fresh- men while sophomore Linda Nelson did; not play last season. Nelson, however, was an all- league, player for Simsbury High S.chool. The backfield will be an- chored by returning starter Julie Fitzsimmons. However, sophomore J,anet Schiefer- decker is in her first season as is freshman Wendy Milas. Sophomore Ver:y McCarthy, last year's junior varsity goal keeper' will be in the nets for the Dutchwonien: · ''I would tend to labelthis as a. building year,'' commented Robert. \Anything above a ,500 season this season will be a big · · plus for us. However, if I can keep this group -together for four years and recruit other talented .student-athletes, I feel we could be playoff contenders as early as next season. This · year we'll take it one day at a time, one game at a time, and learn to work together as a unit.\ ·Chi Psi· Lodge This • eventng Semi-formal- attire Interested in working for the Concordy Sports Staff? People needed to cover women's sports. Contact us ASAP Box 2577. ..... 0:: >- ..0 0 .... 0 .r:: c.. ..... . • Sc The team·· w,eelu back. seaSoJ Dutcb of St. seasoJ thesq towar St. Lq chmer seasm freshn poise Monks man showe and dE Saints Dutchl Am the r: mome enougl the sc regro1 quickl: Tom from soon c attack minut« brougl defens and fi 1 d t <: .......

.... .... .... 1- ~ ;... ..0 0 .... 0 .r:: Q. CONCOROIEN$18, Septe~~~IJer 22, 1983 Page19 ~ . edge St. Lawrence 2 .. 1 Soccer Starts With A Win ByP.S.- SportsStaff ' The 1983 .mens' varsity soccer teanrhas worked hard for three w~eks in an attempt to come back from a disappointing 1982 season. 'This past . Friday, the Dutchman defeated the Saintr:; of St. Lawrence 2~1 in their season opener. This victory has the squad optimistically looking toward the remainder of the \ Lawrence goalie that proved to be the game winner. The Dutch- men continued to keep the ball deep in the Saints end the remainder of the game. · Union has a very young team as there are only four seniors and four juniors returning. Senior captaj.ns. Dave Sheridan and Bernie Zeifang have been moved to fill the ml.ddle .of the 3- 4-3 formation. Larry Anastasi · and Tom Cutter start as the country runs. 'Union .. faces a demanding schedule this week as they travel to Cortland on Wed- nesday and host Army Satur- day. Coach Bob Magee com· mented that, \This week will give the freshmen as well as the rest of the team a chance to mature.\ He was pleased with the entire teams' play on Friday and anticipat~s a successful season. 1 \1 I ' ' . St. Li!~rence defenders form a human ''wall\ in attempt to block a Union tree kick. The Dut- chmen dumped the Saints 2-1. - season. In the contest, the freshman showed tremendous poise as evidenced by Jimmy Monks first half tally. Fresh• man fullb~ck Guy Claveloux showed .great determination and desire as he ·prevented the Saints from penetra(ing the Dutchman defense. A rnornentary lapse of play by the Dutchmen in the early moments of the second half was enough for St. Lawrence to tie the score. As the Dutchman regrouped, the momentum quickly turned. Hustle by senior Tom Cutter and anticipation from junior Dave Philbrick soon caused the St. Lawrence attack to collapse. With 17 minutes remaining, Philbrick brought the· ball from the Union defense, beating two opponent~ and firing a shot past the St. · I outside halfbacks. Junior Peter Stegemann is the only returning letterman at forward. He, along with freshmen threats Jim Monks, Jay Davis, ~ob Cran- dall, Steve Hartman and Doug Wilk Will lead the Dutchmen attack. Retumjng lettermen on defense are Philbrick, Junior Frank Volino, and Sophomores Grant Foreman and Pete Hutchison. Returning Junior Mike Harris will protect the goal. Although hampered with a weak ankle, Harris displays tremendous ability · that will help strengthen - the teams confidence. Freshman AI Trageser will back up Harris\ in the nets . Tr . .:l preseason camp found ev·.;rybody in good spirits as assistant John McNamara led the squad on _grUeling cross- ·BLOOD-· ,• Volleyball Rebuilding With only three starters ret_urning from last year's 14-19 season, head coach Lynne Barta has labeled 1983 as a \rebuilding year\ for her volleyball squad. · Senior Jodi Brenner, who' returns for her fourth season as a starter, is the only member of the squad that played in all 33 games last year. Sophomore Suzette Collier and junior Cheri Ann Wong began the 1982 campaign on the bench before moving into starting roles by the end of the season. Sophomores Mary Forbes and Kristine Gernert are the only other retuming players who have any college ·experience. SPORTS Sports Talk T1o no o~es surprise the local media headlined Dqtchman football for the entire week prior to last Saturdays season opener against Rochester. To no ones surprise, just about every available seat was occupied at the astro turf field by game time. To no ones surpJise the Garnet took the opening kick off and drove down the field in nine plays to jump out in front of the Yellowjackets 7~. By the end of the day . very few observers were surprised to look up at the final score and see Union with 41 points compared to Rocbesters lone seven points. A person has to wonder what the 1983 edition of Union Dutchman football must do to start sur- prising people. Head Coach .AI Bagnoli has entered into his second season as field general for the Dut· chman with almost the same roster that cruised to eight victories last year against only one setback. The list of post season honors ·collected by Union is too many to mention here. Most impressive of all the honors bestowed upon the team and individual players was the final season ranking published by the New England Football Newsletter that had the Dut- chman ·in the number one pqsition. Watching the team run on to the field prior to the kickoff one could have thought that they were watching a tape of an '82 contest. Sure there are a number of new faces on the team and with the coaching staff, but for all intents and purpose the greater majority of Dutchman that won eight games a year ago has returned. With the resurgence of college football in Schenectady over the last three years, a very dif- ferent group follows the for- tunes of Union football. Three years ago, Dutchman fans could be seen up on their feet in hysterics if the Garnet defense With SCO'rf WYKOFF Sports Staff was to stop an opponents drive. Now fans begin to stir in the crowd and call for the return of the first defense in the final stanze, just to stop a threatening Rochester drive that could end the Dutchmans long streak of not allowing their opponents to score. Sure one could understand the fans en- thusiasm to keep the scoreless . streak alive if Saturdays game was close, but Union was on top by forty one points. Coach Bagnoli, a defensive specialist, made the right choice by put- ting his back-up players in as early as he did (third quarter) and going with them to the end. The reaction by the crowd in this instance helps show that fans have come to expect the best and nothing less from Dutchman football. It is good to see fans back in groves to support Union football but the fans are coming out with ex- pectations that have been fueled with the recent garnet gridiron succeses. When one builds a winning program they must expect the pressure that comes along with winning; that is to keep on winning. This years squad, as Bagnoli points out, must con· tinue to improve with each game and take each contest week by week. The talent, coaching and enthusiasm are all there, all the Dutchman must do now is to continue to play up to their potential and the goal of an undefeated season will most definately be a strong possibility. Editors note: Views and comments contained in the illustrious Mr. Wykofi's weekly column do not necessarily reflect those of the Sports Staff. Well written responses are welcome. Typed responses should -be sent to the Sports Staff c-o Concordiensls, Box: 2577. Senior pictures will be taken Monday, Sept. 26 • Friday, Sept. 30 in- Strauss Lounge. Sign up immediately in Mrs. Marra's office MOBILE Gridders Looks to Better 8-1 Mark to w iII be tomorrow, Friday The last donate da·y ' September·23. PLEASE GIVE Strauss Lounge 11-: JO- 5: 00 o Negative - o Positive Needed Desperately .-, By LOU GEORGE Sports Staff After a very impressive 8-1 season last year, the Dutchmen are coming into this season with 33 returning lettermen, 18 starters and a great deal of talented freshmen. These factors combined with. the knowledge of second year head coach AI Bagnoli add up to a potentially undefeated season. The Dutchmen do not only have ex:perienced starters, but also have a great deal of talented substitutes, . which will prove very important later in the sea~on when the Dutchmen meet their toughest opponents: Trinity, Williams and Mid- dlebury. The'O' All of Union's opponents will. learn to respect the Dutchmen's ground game, which has the depth that any head coach dreams about. At fullback Steve Olsen and George Capozzi will see equal time and the same is true with the halfback position as Bill Huttner and Johnnie Johnson will alternate. The line that Will pave the runway to the endzone for these backs is led by Tackle Tom Quirk who has started since his freshmen year. The offensive line is identical to the line that played together last season; this is a gre!}t advantage because each player is familiar not only the · complicated blocking schemes, but with each other. Although Dutchmen_ op- ,ponents respect Union's runa ning game, they are nothi:rig short of fearful of Union's passing attack. Not only do the Dutchmen have two talented quarterbacks to throw to a host pf receivers, led by veteran Rich Kellaher, but their passing playbook resembles that of the San Diego Chargers. • TheBJg'D' The Dutchmen lost three key ballplayers to graduation, yet they have eight returning starters, led by three year starter Tom Plungis at defensive tackle. At the end of last season, the defensive unit was unscored upon in their last 14 quarters. With over 70 per- cent of the starters returning, Union's opponents will have to work tremendously hard to register on the scoreboard. The Dutchmen start the season at home against Rochester, then travel to Hobart and return home the next weekend to face Albany St. under the lights which begiru$ the climb to an undefeated season meeting RPI , rival * Colby (homecoming Weekend), Trinity, Williams, Middlebury and Hamilton. So head out to the Astroturf Field at the next home game and see some of the most talented players in DiviSion UI football. ··

PageZO C.f)NCORDIENS/S, SeRJeinber 22,_ 1983 TS Gamet Machine Rolls On 1- l:t: >- .0 0 - 0 .c a ~ ~ >- .ll ,g 0 .c a. By LOU GEORGE Sports Staff After completing an . 8-1 season in '82, the Union Coll. football players and fans alike are expecting another fine year. Last Saturday the Dutchmen got off on the right foot with a decisive 41-7 victory over Rochester. The Dutclunen have now won 10 of their last 11 outings dating back to last year. The Dutchmen eleven wanted to set the tone of the game and stay in control hoping to iron out the cobwebs of the off season. Union did not only set the tone of the .game but totally dominated and frustrated the Yellowjackets of Rochester. Union took the ball on the - Howell received ECAC weekly \Honor Roll\ for hi-s per- formance that included eight unassisted tackles, four assists, three quarterback sacks, and an interception. This was the ninth time in as marty games (including last season) that a Dutchman has received the honor. Union's second touchdown drive was led by the running of Bill Huttner, who carried twice for 40 yards. The 70-yard drtve ended with a Dan Stewart to Frank Kraft T.D. pass. The Dutchmen increased their advantage to 21-0 with a one- yard plunge by Johnnie Johnson, who had 86 yard$ rushing on 15 attempts for the day. The Dutchmen's final - --- it Huttn.er had a banner day carrying .the ball 9 times for 138 yards and one touchdown and also had one catch for 22 yards. Rochester's only touchdown came in the 4th quarter with five minutes to play on a pass from Mike McCarthy to Mark Palvino. The Dutchmen, now 1- 0, travel to Hobart <;:ollege thiS weekend to meet the Statesmen who-thrashed Iona in their fwst game, 3~7. Last season Union handled the Statesmen eaSily, with. a 49-14 victory. The following weekend Union will face crosstown opponent Albany State in their fir.st game under · the lights on the Astrofield. Union's stellar defensive corps picked up where they left off last year holding Rochester'toonly 70 yards rushing. Celebrating this QB sack are ( L to Rl Valente, Cox, Tavitian and Plungis. thirty yard line following the opening !Qckoff and drove tbe remainder of the field in nine plays and used over five minutes on the clock. The first of many touchdowns was completed with a 13-yard T.D. pass to Winston Britton whose name will become quite popular to defensive backs around the league. Britton led all receivers Saturday with three catches for 43 yards and two touchdowns. touchdown of the half was a 14- yard Stewart to Britton touch- down pass. That drive was highlighted by 30 yards of rushing by Johnnie Johnson and a 27-yard pass from Stewart to pet receiver Rich Kellaher. In the second half, the Dut- chmen again drove but this time a Stewart to Kraft touchdown pass was nullified because Kraft was ruled out of bounds, a very questionable call. The next · pass attempt was by Score by periods: Rochester 0 11 0 7- 7 . Union 14 13 14 b-41 U - Britton, U, paS$ from Slewar1 (Sticka, kickJ U -Kraft, 9, pu\ from Stewa•l !Sticka, kick) U - John!>on. 1, run (Slick~. kttk) U - Britton, 16, pass from Slewart (PAT ia•led, bad snapl U- Johnson, 4,.run (Sitc>.a, k•ck) U- B Huttner, 72. run !5tic~a. k•ck-1 R - Palvlno. 20, pass from McCarthy. ( Ja· son1s, k•ck.l First downs Rushes-yards P~ssing yards Passes 'STATISTICS Roch. 7 38- 70 1::>3 12·29· i 18 9-34 1 Returns y~rds Punts ev&ra!)c Fumbles los! Penallies-yards I 1·5 Union 29 52;319 181 12·28-2 55 4·38 2 I 8-63 J,unior Winston Britton celebra.ting. one of his two touchd~;>wn recepTions, Britton had three cakh.es for 43 yards. S.PORT'S HAPPENIN-GS Sept. 22-29 v. Football J. v. Football Men's Soccer J.V. Soccer Field Hockey Volleyball W. Soccer W. Tennis Union 41 Union 2 RPil Skidmore 3 Sept. 24 at Hobart Sept. 26 at Albany St. Sept. 24 West Point Sept. 26 Hamilton Sept. 24 West Point Sept. 26 at HVCC Sept. 28 Hamilton Sept. 23 at Skidmore Sept. 27 at Hamilton Sept. 28 Vassar, N. Paltz Sept. 27 Siena Sept. 23 at Skidmore Sept. 27 at Hamilton Sept. 28 Albany St. --. Scoreboard- Football (1-0) 2:00 3:3Q,.. 2:00 3:30 2:00 4:00 - 3:30 3:30 3-:30 6:00 3:30 3:30 3:30 3:30 Rochester 7 Soccer { 1-0) St. Lawrence 1 Field Hockey {0-1) Union 0 Volleyball CO-l> Union 0 Throughout the first half, the defense held the Yellowjackets scoreless; Rochester's offense resembled the Rhumba dance in its first three possessions: one, two, three . . . kick. Every time Rochester began to drive the ball the Dutchmen came up with a big play. The first was on a fumble recovery by Bubba Koonce, the second on an in- ter-ception by Tim Howell. Tim · Rochester's Kurt Wittenben. The defense again put Rochester in punting position and on the next drive Johnson scored his second touchdown of the d~i~Y from six yards out. The second half was highlighted by Bill Huttner's · longest career run, a 72-yard sprint in which Huttner displayed his breakaway speed. Booters Look To Rebound Union ID Required for entrance to Alumni Gym and Memorial Fieldhouse Coach Bob Magee is looking for Junior Peter Stegemann to lead Union's offensive attack. . IJy GAC.SID Union's soccer team will be loaded with youth and potential as 11th year head cDach Bob Magee looks to rebound from last season's 3-10-2 record. Prior to 1982, Magee had guided Union to four consecutive non- losing seasonS including an NCAA berth in 1978 and back-to- hack ECAC berths in 1979 and '80. Lack of scoring hurt the Dutchmen during 1982 as they scored only 19 goals (an average of 1.27 per game). Union was held scoreless six times last year (by Hartwick, Anny, RPI, Colgate, Platt• sburgh, and Oneonta) and scored only one goal in . four other games. This year could be a different story, however, as Magee has eight starters returning and ten freshmen. on the team. \I think we've got the right mix for what has to be con· sidered a rebililding season,\ said Magee. \The eight starters gives us a solid nuclelJS while the very talented freshman class gives us something to bUild on for future years. 1'4 have to say that this is the most talented group of freshmen we've had since I've been here.\ , Junior Peter Stegemann will lead an attack that includes up to five .freshmen in the forward- line~ Stegemann recorded fi:ve goals and an assist last year after scoring five goals and three assists during his fresh- Irian season(in which he played half the year on th~ junior varsity). The five freshmen battling for the other two starting forward positions are: Bob Crandall, Victor Davis, Steve Hartman, Jim Monks, and Doug Wilk. . Magee con- siders all five freshmen as strong potential scorers and feels he has a proven scorer in Stegemann. \We've got a lot of talented depth on the front line,\ said Magee. \The question is how fast will the freshmen mature?\ The halfback position is loaded with veterans. Senior Larry Anastasi played on the . varsity in 1980and was a starter in 1981. He miSsed last season as h~ spent the , term abroad. Senior Tom Cutter has spent the last tw~ years on the varsity: and was a starter in 1982 while senior co .. captain . Dave Sherfdan is a four-year starter. He was voted the Most Valuable- Freshman in 1980 after setting a Union· rookie scoring record 'with seven goals. Senior co- captain Berilie Ziefang is also a three-year starter and a proven· scorer with nine goals and seven assists for his career. ··Union's fullbacks will be . spphomore Grant Foreman, last year's Outstanding Fresh- man, ~unior Dave Philbrick, and freshman Greg Claveloux: whose Staples High School team won the· state tournament last year. Claveloux was voted the tourney's Most Valuable Player and he was later elected to the All-Fairfield County AU-star team. In goal, Magee will start veteran Mike Harris with rookie Al Trageser as the backup •. _ Harris played eleven games last year after starter Rick Russell weQt down with an injury and recorded 45 saves (an average of 4.5 per game). He allowed 18 .goals (1.64 per game) and had a save average of .731. Magee's biggest concern is the lack . of a physically dominating player. Andy Dreher, a 6'3, 200 pounder, graduated after four years on the varsity While talented Estvan Tamoga transferred to the University of Buffalo. · W. J ( E ( ( c: t t I ( ( r t I t ~ 1 t ( ( 1 ( ( r I c: t ~ t 1 I 1 ~ ' I ~ 1 1 ~ ' t t ]

:X: >- 0 0 0 c Cl. • - ' CXIJI, No .. 3 A Call for Justice C/l· ~ u. rc r.ll w a. :>, .0 E 0 -a Mary Beth Wflnger of Channel 6 News interviews sophon1ore Stacy Fassberg ByP.E. SACKS On Tuesday, September 27, 1983, Stacy Fassberg and four other Union College students, Maria Gonzaga,. Maria John- son, Despina Nicholas and Patti Sacks, ventured to Albany to make a statement at a Public Service Commission Hearing, regarding The New York Telephone Company's request for revenue increase and rate changes~ \The Public Service Com- mission has the broad mandate to ensure that lltility customers obtain reliable service at the lowest reasonable rates and SAC ConduCt Questioned By GAYLE ROSENFELll Associate News Editor Last spring the Student Affairs Council eliminated the conduct subcommittees that existed in the Inter-Fraternity Council (IFC) and Panhellenie Council. These subcommittees, although practically unknown to the· College community, were unique. Previously the IFC and Panhellenic Council were the · only organizations with their own separate conduct com- mittees, as accorded to them by their respective constitutions. Every other College entity had to deal with Union's .formal Subcouncil on Student Conduct. However, with the disposal of the IFC and Panhellenic Con- duct Committees, all conduct cases will be brought directly before the College's Subcouncil on Student Conduct. theirown16 membercouncil,the IFC. This council heard two cases last year. The Panhellenic Council is com- posed of nine girls, three from each sorority, and of these nine, four act as officers of. the group on a rotating basis. Unlike the IFC, it was-·the Vice President of the P~nhellenic Council, not the President, who acted' as Chairman of the Panbellenic Conduct Subcommittee. However, this latter committee did not exist fomially last 'year and heard only two cases in the spring of 1981. This year a new Student Conduct Code was written and can be found in the current Union College Student Hand- book. According to these revised policies and regulations \the Subcouncil on . Student Conduct is composed of nine students and an adviser, usually the assistant dean of students, who serves as the principal investigator, and who will be present throughout the hea~ing and the deliberations of the subcouncil, but who will not have a vote. · mittees on conduct from their respective or,gani~ations. Therefore; most of these .people were not directly involved in the change and knew little if anything about the incident until it had already occurred. This should be kept in mind to better understand the com- ments of the present office holders. . .. According to A~istant Dean of Students Robert Massa, the former subcommittees had an \official responsibility for recommendation to the dean any action to be taken as punishment for a fraternity or sorority that violated the Conduct Code.\ The \only difference now,' ' continued Massa, \is that they don't have tbe official responsibility\ any longer. However, they may still make recommendations to the dean of students · on any fraternity or sorority misconduct matter and the dean will take these ~uggestions into consideration while making <;:ontin.ued on page 4 with the least adverse effect on the environment'' In essence, it is the Public Service Com- mission (SC) which authorizes any revenue increase or rate change issued by the New York Telephone Company. For the past week, Fassberg has been questioning the issue of the installation charge issued by New York Telephone. In her statement, Fassberg claims that the present service charge of $46.00 is an .injustice. According to the PSC, \utility rates must, under the law, be fair and r~asonable . . . The rates reflect costs•no more, no less.\ The principal of Fassberg's complaint is that the installation charge of $46.00 is not only exorbitant, yet is also unfair for the service the college student residing in campus dormitories is receiving. The New York Telephone Company has requested the PSC to grant a revenue increase and rate changes. If approved, the proposal would raise the installation charge to $70.00. Fassberg points out that the average student attending college for four years would actually' pay an installation charge four times! By the time she graduates, Fa~berg expects to have in- vested a minimum of $225.00 in installation charges; this fee is not including the other service charges, unit rental rates, and long distance caDs which she also expects to pay New York Telephone. Fassberg agrees with many other students on campus that should the rate increase take effect, telephone service will become a luxW'y rather than a common utility service. Fassberg arrived at the PSC Hearing with a petition signed by 780 members of the Union College student body and faculty. After making her statement, Paul L. Gioia, Chairman of the PSC, told Fassberg that because her claims were not all covered under the issues of today's hearing, her statement will constitute an issue which they will address Separately. Fassberg· felt a positive reacm tion from the PSC and ovet·all, was pleased with the outcome of today's hearing and her progress to date . Fassberg wishes to thank all who have supported her in her fight against the New York Telephone Company's in- stallation charges. She plans to continue this fight on a state- wide level, through correspondence and the media. The following is a copy of the statement Fassberg made at the PSC Hearing today: Good afternoon. My name is Stacy Fassberg. I am a sophomore at Union College in Schenectady, New York, as well as a permanent resident of New York State. I am here today to address the issue of the in- stallation charge of $46.00 being enforced by New York Teleph<me Company. On behalf of all students residing in college dotnlitories in New York State, I question the basis for the $46.00 charge given the nature of the facility in which we live. In order to confront this issue, we must first examine the procedure for establishing service on campus. Within the . first week of school, students . may request service and receive a telephone by ap- proaching representatives supplied by New York Telephone. It is the students' responsibility to assemble the phone and then insert the plug into the jack (which is already Continued on page 3 This combining of conduct councils into one council may not have a . direct impact on many students, but the arrangement is being contested by the IFC. Apparently the Student, Affairs Council (SAC) upon creating this single body last spring did not · discuss matters with anyone in the IFC, Panhellenic Council or the Subcouncil on Student Conduct. \We didn't even have a representative there (at the SAC meetings),\ said Joe Bogan, Chainnan of both the IFC and of the formel\ IFC Subcommittee on Conduct. Therefore, two issues are being brought up by the IFC. The first IFC criticism is that of the actual liquidation of the IFC Conduct Subcommittee, and the second complaint is that of the process by which the SAC eliminated this subcommittee. The nine student members of the subcouncil will be appointed by the Student Forum through a procedure to be determined by that organization. The chair- man, vice chairman, and recording secretary of the subcouncil will be elected an- nually by the members. If the chairman is unable to preside at a hearing, the vice chairman will serve in his-her stead.\ These are the workings of· the Subcouncil on Student Conduct which will_ now encompass all individuals and organizations Activities Expo '83 However, before entering into this controversy, a general understanding of the IFC and Panhellenic Conduct Sub- committees and the SubCouneil on Student Conduct is necessary. The IFC Conduct Subcommittee was comprised of five members and one Chairman, all selected from New ·Deans . on campus including frater- nities and sororities. One problem in dealing flli'ther with this issue is that each ·presiding officer of the IFC and Panhellenic Council Conduct Subcommittees, Subcouncil on Student Conduct and also the assistant dean of students did not hold their · present positions last spring when the SAC removed the fraternity-sorority subcom- Students en.joyi ng Expo last Saturday - ' . , Faculty· Art Career P. 2 .P. ·10 ' . Internships P.4 Ill ·s: u It\ (/) w 0.: >- .0 0 +- 0 s: Cl.

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, September 29, 1~83 Massa and Tobiessen: Famil.iar Faces· as New Assistant Deans By DIANNE PA VACIC Bob Massa, former Financial Aid Director at Union, and Joanne Tobiessen, Director of the Career Development Center, have been named assistant deans of students. Both bring with them a multitude of experiences with college students as well as an undying enthusiasm to their new positions. Massa is making the tran- New Assistant Dean,. Bob Massa sition ilfter ten years of in- volvement in financial aid administration at three dif- ferent colleges--Columbia, Colgate and Union. In 1980 he was brought to Union to \tighten up\ our financial a{d progr7am. He asslll\e~ \I did just that. Last year was a maintenance year-there were no crises.\' He said ambitiously \I have no desire to leave a college campus. I love the lifestyle, the \I have no desire to leave a college campus, I love the lifestyle, the students.\ -Massa students.\ Massa had had the opportunity to leave Union last year but chose to remain. Having been Financial Aid Director at Union for three years, the campus is not new to him. He. affirms, \I already know the people you .have to know to get things done around here.\ He will also be a'ble to use his fmancial background to aid students with budgeting the need for repairs in fraternities in college owned housing. Massa says the major dif- ference between the positions is that as Assistant Dean of Students, \My day is so varied . .. I wear so many hats,\ while as Director of Financial Aid, \I could pretty much determine and predict how my time was going to be spent.\ Joanne Tobiessen brings to her new office a great deal of experience and a strong con~ cern for the struggles women face in their daily lives. Through her work associations and personal life she has gained insight. as to possible solutions to this career vs. personal life conflict. She came to Schenectady in 1970 when her husband· began to teach at Union. That year she was asked, and did serve, on the original President's Com- mission on theStatus of Women. She taught a course at the college through the Continuing Education Office for women, on · ways they could develop their potential. Tobiessenalso spent 4 years as the Director of the . Career Development Center at Russell Sage College. Presently, she is the Director of the Career Development Center at Union. Managing both positions is \going to keep me quite active,\ she says. Dean Tobiessen is \looking forward to working on these issues that affect women at Union,\ and stresses that \I don't see myself as the only person working on these con- cerns. I'm one of many people interested and I expect to be working closely with all of them.\ She plans to \spend this fall getting to know more about matters that worry women at Union.\ As advisor to the Panhellenic Coll1lcil, she will have constant contact with women students which will help her ascertain the needs of women at Union. In addition, she will. be attending women's organizations' meetings and will seek ways to address the questions that arise. Tobiessen feels women face particular challenges in their career planning. \It is not just a question of what I want to do,\ she says, \but a question of how do I want to live my lif~? How CAREER WORKSHOPS AND PROGRAMS • Tues~, Oct. 4·-HOW TO MARKET YOURSELF EF-; FECTIVELY IN AN INTERVIEW-· Employers from business and industry will discuss what they look for in job applicants and what you can do to make the personal in- terview work for you. 7 p.m., Banquet Room, carnegie. • Wed., Oct. 12·-CAREER FESTIVAL--Representatives of national and local business, industry and governmentwi.il be on hand to discuss career opportunities in their organizations. Watch your mailbox for more information. 10 a.m.-4:30p.m:, Alumn~ Gym • Mon., Oct. 17--INTERNSHIPS·-YOU can gain practical hands·on experience and a chance to clarifY your career goals through an internship. Learn how to identify and apply for internship opportunities. 6:30p.m., Strauss Lounge • Tues., Oct. 18··1NTERNSHIPS··4p.m., Strauss can I balance personal goals and professional goals?\ She states, \Women have to make more difficult decisions.\ Tobiessen also affirms that women do face sexual harassment and discrimination, not so much at the entry level any more, but in middle management. \Women are still forging new directions but have few role models to follow at these higher levels.\ Another conflict women encounter is the issue of com· petition and caring. She states, \There is a _great deal of competition, yet women want to be involved in caring relationships as well. A question arises-where does one draw the line on the competition?\ To help facilitate these concerns of women, Dean Tobiessen is· preparing programs and workshops to be offered in the upcoming mon- ths. Included are: leadership training, women as role models, balancing personal ~nd professional life, self- awareness discussions, com- petition and caring, and women in the workplace. In summation, Dean Tobiessen stresses that \women need to take seriously their career pursuits. They must think about the com- plexities of their decisions.'' Among Dean Massa's duties are the planning and coor- dinating of· Orientation and Parents' Weekend. Iil addition to these two massive ordeals, Massa is the advisor to the Subcouncil on Student Conduct (Conduct Conunittee). In this role, he will help direct them in ·cases they have to hear. As history dictates however, the majority of cases are never heard by the Conduct Com- mittee and are reviewed ad~ ministratively. Consequently, Massa will be the \primary investigator'' and will recommend action to Dean of Students Joseph Mammola. Regarding the Conduct Committee's effectiveness, Massa colilments that \the Committee isn't going to win any prizes for being the most popular committee on campus and technically, I hope we never have to use the Conduct Com- mittee.\ Although using the Committee is probably inevitable, Massa wishes it would never be needed. Last year, the Conduct Code was tightened up to cover a much broader scope of violations and to clearly define the role of the nine students on the Committee. The revised · Code also outlines in great detail, the procedures the group must follow when dealing with a case. Succinctly, Massa states, \If we don't follow these procedures, anything the Conduct Committee recom- mends can be thrown out the window.\ On the issue of student clubs ~nd organizations, he feels it is the administration's respon• sibility to make sure these students know how to run an organization effectively. \There is a tradition on this campus that many groups are student•run. I think that is a great tradition but I feel that if anyone has a complaint that a group isn't run effectively by students, the ·only people. to blame a1·e ourselves, the faculty and the administration.\ Massa says that programs should be provid~d enabling students to New Assistant Dean Joanne Tobiessen learn .how to be good managers. To facilitate this idea, he is developing a fraternity management system for Greek organizations. Through the sponsorship by the Inter- , fF~ternity Council, workshops on leadership, managing and budgeting will be held. Once it gets . underway, Massa hopes the IFC ~an \grab the ball and run with it.'' Ailother part of . the system entails the development of consistent contracts that define the relationship of a particular fraternity or sorority to the college. \We have nineteen fraternities and sororities and we have just about as many different descriptions of their relationships with the school. There is just a whole array of different items that have been packed into these inconsistent contracts.\ Another responsibility of Dean Massa is that he is \the first line of defense,\ meaning that he gets called first when \there is a .great deal of competition, yet women want to be involved in · caring relationships as well. A question arises - wbpre does one draw the line on competition?'' -Tobiessen there is · an emergency. Laughing, he said, ''Last Tuesday night I said my prayers hoping I wouldn't get .called out of bed at 2 a.m. to face a problem with a party.\ The party policy, which requires students to run aroWld gathering signatures and which Massa clarifies is \a pain in the neck for some students,'' enables security • to assign additional people when a large patty is going to be sponsored. The only reason for the policy, Massa claims, is that \we're concerned about the safety of our students. u Regarding the alcohol policy, Massa reminds that, \It is not against the law for someone under the age of 19 to drink. It is against the law to serve that person.\ He realizes that even if the or~anization sponsoring the party cards and stamps in- dividuals at the door and the person serving checks for the stamp, ther'e will still be 17 and 18 year olds drinking. He hopes that the sponsors will show ('good faith\ and will set up a system to identify those under age. Massa sincerely says, \I urge leaders of organizations to take this seriously for two simple reasons: 1) liability 2) it's against the law.\ He points out that \if someone of age gets a beer and gives it to a person under age, the organization is still liable if '.anything' hap- pens.\ Yet another duty the Assistant Dean will undertake is that of a \mini·housing director\ for fraternities and sororities in college owned housing. In the past, all work orders, independent and Greek, were handled through the Residence Life Office. This year, Dean Massa will be handling .. all maintenance, requests for Greeks. He will act as an advocate since he \Won't have the independents to worry about\ and. can give the Greeks . priority. They won't have to compete for attention of someone in Student Affairs. Of course, the physical plant staff is only so large, but this new system should alleviate as much of the delay as possible. An obligation the two will share is that of co-chairpersons of . a committee to study the relationships between men and women at Union College. It will consist of students, faculty and staff who will seek to educate the campus about sensitive issues faced by women, and will propose policy when needed. As a former all~male college, Massa points out that \Union is not particularly unique in its retention of a predominantly male atmosphere.\ In 1980, Massa completed his doctoral dissertation on the subject: Relationships between men and women on formerly all male campuses. He has also been collecting information from studies done at other in- stitutions on the same subject. Thus, . when the committee commences, Massa says \we will have meat to work with-a good array of literature.\ Dean Massa also expresses that the intent of the committee \is not to look solely at the status of women. The intent is to explore how men and women live, work and learn-together on a campus that happened to be all· male just twelve years ago.\ \I think this is a damn good place, l just wish more people knew about ' it. I don't want to tell people about Union, I want to show them U . ' moo. -Massa For the future, Massa sees Union taking a leadership position in higher ed.ucation and playing a major role in the State especially being only twelve miles away from Albany. He asserts, \We have got to 'be a spokesperson when it comes to private institution funding.'' Tobiessen vows that she is \impressed with Union students-with their initiative and intelligence!' She would like to see Union as a place where \sex roles, and stereotypes don't inhibit · the development and growth of men and womeQ.\ In response to how he liked Schenectady, Massa jokingly replied, \It's a nice place to visit!\ Actually, he enjoys Schenectady and unlike the masses,. does not \think Schenectady is a dingy, industrial city.\ Tobiessep adds, \It's a nice place for a family.'' They are optimistic and want students to bring their concerns to them. Massa upholds this when he concludes, \I think this is a damn good place. I just wish more people knew about it. I don't want to tell people about Union, I want to show them Union!\ F N givl d.Uf Mr. pos stu ere of: the for Qvj wa: dir1 E ex( as:j bet ye~ aid ins ma the stu · dr~ POl me st C(ll he1 wo Wi SIT. Sti: r ne' ml of pr1 Tu Col in AI laj tir T1: inl se <>f D1 es cd $4 fe cc te e' aJ st a1 aj pl a) fr p1 pi aJ w aJ iii y tJ

COJVCORDIENS/S, September 29. 1983 Financial Aid's ·New Look By JAN. BARAN New faces and positions have given the Financial Aid Office a different look thiS year. When Mr. Robert Massa resigned bis post to become assistant dean of students, . a vacancy was created. This post, the director of financial aid, was filled by the .foriner assistant director for two years, Ellen Frishberg. Over the summer, Toni Dailor was named to be the assistant director of financial aid. legislation and the certification of draft registration legiSlation. The first piece of legislation could be a promising . one for New York students, enabling them to receive more money and an increase on the income limit. · In addition, the con- troversy cbnceming the cer- tification requirement for draft registration should be settled by the Supreme Court in February. The .passage of this legislation would require additional work by the financial aid office. system will compile one data base of all Union College students. Tenninals will ~ placed in most Union College offices to s~d .the transfer of student files. This computer system will gradually replace many functions of the Burroughs which was enacted. under Massa's leadership. P_age3 Besides the two years. of experience here · at Union as a~istant director, Ellen Frish .. berg can ·also rely on her. six years' experience in financial aid at both public and private institutions. This experience makes her very. f~ar .With the needs of Union College stuQ.ents. Toni Dailor can also Although these two pieces of legislation will probabJy be settled this year, Ellen Frish,. berg still conside~:s this year to be \quiet on the legislative front.'' Consequently, the financial aid office plans to use this year to, assess the current finane.ial program. The services available to Union students will be enhanced. A more complete listing of ''M need'' and outside scholarships will be compiledto enable students tp find more money. The financial aid office en- courages ~11 Union students to apply for financial aid-even those students who may question the possibility ·Of their receiving aid. The financial aid office has many resources which can find alternative sources of aid for students. Financial Aid Director Ellen Frishberg (r.ight) with her new assistant To.ni Dailor Humanities Takes a Byte · draw on experience for her new position. For the last .fourteen months, sbe has worked at Str:NY · as a financial aid cowtselor. More importantly for her ]ob at Union, Toni Dailor worked at Hobart College and William Smith Cnllege, both small, private liberal arts in- stitutions. · This experience will be .needed when the ·decisions are made on twa· ·important pieces of legislation, the im- provements on the New York Tuition Assistanc~ Plan (TAP) The new year should bring many promising ideas and events to the financial aid of- fice .. For instance, the financial aid office .is considering the merits of wage differentials based on ability for the stude-nt employment program. In ad- dition, a computerized financial aidmanagement system should be in effect in the spring. This 'R.ate Hike Un·fair Continued from page 1 installed in every room.) Approximately three days later, service appears. At no time does a representative of The Phone Company physically install the phone; but rather, service is ''installed as a result' of mere\ computer-processing ... Does the work necessary to establish telephone service on college campuses warrant a $46.00 charge? to other changes (for example, monthly service charge, long distance calls, and unit rental) comprise the exorbitant fee no longer affordable to the average college student. Should the installation . cost continue to · rise, telephone service ·-wm :-be · inconcei\fable: : · · · · ' > • - • ' - • - In a quest to resol~e this dilemma, we askthat the Public Service Cotnmission and New York Telephone cooperate by issuing separate proceedings to address the appropriate charges for dormitories and other special facilities. We also ask to be provided with a suf- ficient time period for com- ments from other dormitory residents. Finally, we would like to express. our desire to- work with New York Telephone . in hopes of finding a rate schedule which is profitable for you, The New York Telephone Company, yet fair for us. By LORI KAPLAN their curriculum: Prof. Robert Baker (Philosophy), Prof. ATTENTION HUMANITIES Jordan Smith (Writing), Prof. MAJORS: ,Now you. too· can Stanley Kaminsky (Freshmen graduate Union proficient in Preceptorial and Logic), Prof. computer usage. This can be Linda Patrik (Freshman accomplished without taking Preceptorial}, Prof. Judith courses in the often dreaded Ginsberg (Spanish), Prof. C t S · e D pattment Thomas Warger (French). ompu er cienc. ·. e . · Pr.of. Mark T·oher· (Latin and CHUC is the solution. CHUC stands .for Computerized History). In addition to this, Humanities Curriculum .. CHUC Profs. Kaminsky and Ginsberg is one of Union College's new will teach a liberallearing (F) . programs instituted to insure course titled Technological Union's place among the top Values, which will- teach the private colleges in the nation. implications of computer The program is a two-year technology on society. experiment directed by its The CHUC program will use faculty advisor Robert_ Baker. It the Digital Pro 325 system. Its wUl begin in January, 198i, with main advantage isthat it is easy two classrooms in the to use. According to Prof. Humanities building, one with Baker, \Anyone can learn to printers and one with twelve to use the machine, even if they fifteen work stations. can't type, within an hour, · CHUC will initially be used maybe less.'' The. system has only by a select group of five main functions. First, professors. Only students in humanities students will be these_ prqf~sors'_ cJa.s~es.wi.U \>e .. _introduce_d to e_ompute':' . soft .. · permitted to us~ · CHUC w~re. This.lea~~mg ex~r1ence . facilities. The followmg seven · w11l · begm m · Freshman professors will use CHUC in Preceptorial and can be ex- panded through a student'.s four years at Union. Second, CHUC is a word processor. This will be an enonnous aid to students in doing paper revisions, which are often the most difficult part of writing papers. Third, the computer will be able to correct assignments instantly. This will be particularly helpful to students of Logic and Language. Fourth, CHUC will have a projection screen, to enable professors to correct papers in the - classroom for instructional purposes. Finally, students will be placed in decision situations in .dealing with graphics, technological values, relationships with other students, and problem. sets. CHUC is being funded with the help of several agencies. First, the Sloan Foun- dation has given $25,000 to cover faculty time and to educate faculty in computer usage. Digital has made a gift of half of the machines and they have given a substantial discount on the remaining half. Also funding the project are the College Work-Study . Program and tlfe Internal Education Fund. . Union is not the first college to attempt to computerize its .hwnanities department. Most other colleges have been un- successful in their attempts. Prof. Baker feels that the reason for these failures is two fold. First, \They {other colleges) put the emphasis on just having the hard equipment there,\ without inc()rporating it intothe curricUlum.- This led the use of the computer to become recreational, rather than educational. Second, these colleges were isolated in their attempts. He believes that Union will be saccessful _ because it is incorporating the computer ·into classroom curriculwn, forcing students to use it for academic purposes. Also, Union is a member of the Sloan Fowtdation. Thus, it is exposed to other experimenting colleges in the foundation. If CHUC is successflll, Prof. Baker believes that \Union will be ahead of any small college in the cowttry.\ This issue of alleged justice is felt right in the wallet of each college student requestifig a telephone. At the beginning of every academic year, students are required to pay the in- stallation charge, regardless of any previous service agreements. This charge, presently at $46.00, increased approXimately twenty percent from last year and has a pl\ojected increase of fifty percent for neN:t year. Hence, after four years of college, we will have reinvested significant amounts of money to repeatedly install telephone service. It would appear that New York Telephone is gaining tremendous revenue at the expense of dormitory residents. We cannot afford to be taken advantage of any longer. The installation charge, in addition According to Webster's New Wodd Dictionary, justice is defined as \the use of authority to uphold what is just,\ It is obvious that the authority is New York Telephone, but, is $46.00 really what is just? 'Deposit' Bottles ·Thank you for giving me the opportunity to appear before y<,>u today as a representative of all students living in college dormitories in New York State. cashing in An AD HOC Committee has been formed to evaluate the candidacy .of Professor Sigrid Kellenter (Modern Languages): The committee consists of Prof~ssor~ Marten (Ef!glish), ~chmidt (Economics), Thomas (Modern Languages) and Butterstem (BIOlogy- Co~~ee Chanman). Individuals wishing to offer testimony relating to Professor Kellenter's tenurability may contact Professor Butterstein (370-6028) or any committee member. An AD HOC Committee has been formed to evaluate the candidacy of Professor Bruce Connolly for tenurability. The connnittee consists of Professors Finke!stein (History, ~~ttee Chair- man), Evans (Library), Steckler (Arts), and Wef!l~r (Cherrustry). Anyo':le~ wishing to. provide testimony concerning Professor Connolly's tenurab11ity may do so by subrrutting the te~timo~y in writing to any member of the.committee or by contacting the chairperson to arrange an mterv1ew. An AD HOC Conunittee composed o( Professors Frohlich (Biology), Ludwig (Philosophy, Committee Chairperson), Shanebrook (Mechanical Engineering) and Weick (Chemistry) has been appointed to investigate the candidacy for tenurability of ~rofessor Janet S. Anderson, Assistant Professor of Chemistry. Persons wishing to testify' in regard to Professor And~rson's teaching, res.earc~, or college serv~c~ are i.nvite~ to write to .any member of the comnuttee or contactthe chairperson to arrange an mtemew mth the comnuttee. . ByLORIOLL1VENSTEEN Staff With the bottle bill in .effect in New York State, the college is trying to adapt. to the problems of bottle coll~ction. Jan Gray, Director of Food Services, explained the various policies on· campus that have been generated to deal with the new law. The only place to return cans on campus is the pizZa pub, which will give you the five-cent refund. The other food establishments, including the pub and the rathskeller, are not taking student cans. Jan Gray explained that this is because staff is already tightly scheduled and overextended and also because: soda syrup in cans lying around would have a tendency to attract vermin and rodents. Jan Gray has been looking for an enviromnental group that would come on campus to take over collection of empties. The SEA is one orgaQ:iZation that Gray is hoping will consider this I idea, but there has. been no response from them as yet. ~oth the pub and the sk.eller are handling theirmm empties. They are ·pouring cans and bottles into glasses for on- premise consumptioQ, and . redeeming these can·s and bottles, but not ones from the students themselves. · An additional· effect of the' bottle bill is the ten cent in- crease on soda machine prices on campus. This is merely passing on the raised cost of cans for the school to the con- sumer. If one returns empties, the raised amount C(lllles only to a nickel, thus the price of soda £rom vending machines on campus is still cheaper than fotind elsewhere. For any interested students or student groups, Food Services will provide collection bo11tes for these people to take over the collection on campus. The following cans can be collected: Coke, Diet Coke, Sprite, Sugar F.ree Sprite, T!lb, Fresca, Sunkist, .Diet Sunkist,.Ramb1in' Root Beer, Sugar Free Ramblin Root beer, Mellb Yello, Santiba, and Welch's. Food Services will give you $12 for a full box of cans that are clean and un· ~aged. ·

.~ Page 4 CON('ORDIENSJS, September 29, 1983 Greeks Lose Jurisdiction Stu·dent Forum In ·Session Continued from page 1 his final decision on the matter. Senior Hal Cohan, Chairman of the Subcouncil on Student Conduct added to Massa's remarks. ''The IFC (and Panhellenic Council) are still permitted to have their own conduct wing. What they've lost is just the sanction of the dean of students. They can take action, but their conduct arm is no longer the official conduct arm.\ According to the revised Student Conduct Code \responsibility for in- vestigating a charge of group misconduct, in the case of fraternities, rests with the adviser to the IFC; in the case of sororities, with the adviser to the Panhe1lenic Council: and, in the case of other recognized student organizations with the assistant dean of students. If either of the three officers named above has filed the charges , the dean of students will appoint a new in- vestigator.\ Thus the \revised Student Conduct Code requires student&and (all) organizations who are accused of violating the Student Conduct Code to appear before the Conduct Com- mittee,\ said Massa, instead of fraternities and sororities as separate entities being allowed to appear only before their own IFC and Panhellenic Council Conduct Subcommittees. The question of why the sudden change is at issue with the IFC. Bogan commented that his understanding of Massa and Dean Joseph Mammola 's policies towards the IF:C were the creation of an \efficient force\ on campus inthe form of fraternal organizations.. Con- tinued Bogan, \We're {the IFC) very happy With Massa's goals for the . IFC.\ He $eems \genuinely concerned\ with the IFC and this is why l}ogan expressed surpr-i-se by the elimination of the fraternity- sorority subcommittees, The \conduct committee served a vital function for the IFC,\ said Bogan, \and if you take that away you take away a lot of our credibility.\ This attitude seems to sum up the real con- cern of the IFC over this issue. The response for .the reason for the aggregation of the conduct committees into one unit was basically shared by Massa, Cohan and senior Amy Dresner, Chairman of the Panhellenic Council. \In a way I see why they .(the SAC) pulled it (the. fratemity•sorority subcommittees) out,'' said Dresner. Although this action will result in a more over- burdened Subcouncil on Student Conduct, this group is \trained a lot better\ in misconduct matters, added Dresner. In ·other words, \I think they should leave conduct to the Conduct Conuilittee.\ An in- teresting note is that Dresner happens also to be amern:ber of the Conduct Committee of the College. Massa's main argument is INTERNSHIPS 1 nformation is available in Career Dev. Center New York State Assembly Intern Program: l) Sess·ion 1·ntern Program is open to. juniors o~ seniors of any major who have a strong interest in state government and the legislative process. 30· hours per week, January-May, academic credit given; Application deadline: October 19. 2) · Graduate Scholars Program is open to students who are matriculated in or who have completed a graduate degree. Deadline: November 1. Consumer Energy Council of America: In- · ternships are available with a research and advocacy organization representing consumer interest in energy policy issues. Interns work on research and legislative projects. Open to juniors, seniors or graduate students with ex- cellent academic cre<;lentials and good rese·arch and writing skills. Dow Jones Newspaper Editing Internship: Paid summer job in copy editing at a newspaper or news service. Request for application must be made by November 1. New York State Senate Internships; Open to juniors or seniors of any major who have a strong interest in state government and the legislative process. Full-time January-May. Application deadline: October 14. Metropolitan Museum of Art: Training op- portunities are available for disabled people who seek practical experience in museum work. Applicants must· be able to demonstrate a serious commitment to a museum career. An AD HOC committee has been formed to evaluate the candidacy of Prof. James McCord (English Department) for tenure. The com- - mi1'teeconsists of Profs. Huii(Chemistry), Smith (Arts), Stevenson (English), and Reynolds .(Economics-Committee Chairman). We actively i'nv.ite testimony from students, faculty or alumni bearing on Prof. McCord's teaching, ·research or college service. Individuals wishing to offer testimony may cQntact Prof. Rey;nolds (370-6217) or any committee member. An AD HOC committee composed of Professors Berk, Gaj.jar, Jones, and Sea ife (Chairperson) has been appointed to investigate, evaluate and report on the tenurability of Professor Jay Newman (Physics). If any per- sons want to provide testimony rela'ting to· Professor Newman~s 1'enurability, please submit the testimony in writing to the Chairperson or contact the Chairperson to set up an interview. that \it was the feeling of the SAC that everyone who is a member of· the campus com- munity\ should be treated by the same body .. \We're all a member of the greater com- munity of Union College (and) as such we have to answer to each other when there's a probletq like misconduct,\ said Massa. The \consistancy of treatment,'; was Massa's theme here. Cohan concurred by saying that \despite the fact that they're (fraternities and sororities) unique organizations,\ they're not entitled to separate conduct committees. ''Judgements should be rendered in a uniform matter,\ Cohan continued. Massa went on to say that fraternities and sororities- ''shouldn't be treated any differently\ than any other group or organization on campus .. Bogan's counterargument is that \we (fraternities and sororities) shouldn't be looked at in the same light\ as other organizations on campus. They comprise a substantial amount of the student population, thus, are a unique entity on campus. Bogan believes that the IFC and Panhellenic Conduct Sub- committees can better un- derstand the workings of fraternities and sororities so are better able to pass judgement upon their misconduct. . The notion of a biased com- mittee arose here. Massa said that a person on the Subcouncil on Student Conduct can pull himself off the committee if he or· she holds a particular prejudice towards an individual or group that comes before the connnittee. Also, this biased member, if he or she exists, may be asked to step down from the council for this particular case if a vote by the subcouncil .. concludes that this individual is incapable of putting aside prejudice . in order to try the case ·at hand. Cohan noted that all misconduct cases before the Subcouncil on Student Conduct \will be done fairly, impartially and be a benefit to everyone involved.\ Therefore, as stated b'y the new Student Conduct Code \authority and respon- sibility to adjudicate student violations of College conduct regulations have been delegated to the Subcouncil on Student Conduct.\ The next step in this issue wlli be the actions taken by the IFC. Bogan said that the IFC will draw up a proposal for the SAC in order to possibly secure an IFC representative on the . Conduct Committee. \We're going to push to get somebody on right now,\ added Bogan. What happens with this proposal is as yet unknown. As Cohan concluded, \I don't think it should be seen as a major issue.\ The IFC still retains its \self policing responsibility,\ added Massa. This power remains at the IFC and Panhellenic Council's ~sposal. By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDEil Associate Features Editor The student forum held its first two meetings this year on Thursday,Sept. 22 and Monday, Sept. 26. A wide range of issues were discussed. First to be heard at Thur- sday's meeting was the presentation of the F.inance Committee's Handbook by Vice President of Finance Ben HeckSher. Lauded by J·unior Trustee Shari Midoneck as, \Simply amazing,\ an e:il:'- planation of its contents was provided. Heckshei''s attention then focused on the current fiscal ·problems at hand - namely those organizaticms Which overspent ~heir budgets last year. A list of those organizations included: Biology Club, B.L.A.S., Concordiensis; Mountebanks, Women's Net- work, and WRUC~ These issues will be the subject of further attention at Finance Committee meetings. The last major issue of concern was additional funding i for the WRUC 100 watt power increase. Though the Forum iaitially expected the ad- ministration to fund half the cost of the power increase ($8000), it was only able to provide $3,276, leaving an ad- ditional $4,724.15 needed. After becoming the subject of much heated debate, the Forum made and passed a resolution to allocate the additional funding. Next on the meeting's agenda · was the subject of Food Service- ·-an increase in the meal plan cost without an apparent in- crease of value. Though much was said, the final decision reached was to ask Jan Gray to appear at the next Forum meeting, where discussion could be resumed. The next forum meeting was then scheduled to be held the following Monday. The ten- tative agenda for that meeting was set as follows: Discussion of Food Service with Jan Gray, Procedures for electing an Independent Student Coalition Representative, a discussion ·Of Student Awareness Day, and the procedures for election of a sophomore representative. · A second Student Forum meeting was held this past Monday. A variety of old and new business was discussed. First to be heard from was Jamie Danziger, student rep.to the AAC (Academic Affairs Council). In its last meeting, the AAC discussed the present course carding system and its possible modification. There have been two problems cited with the system: the cards are often not used, closing~students out of courses, and there is a lack of criteria for obtaining cards-often seniors who need cOurses to graduate are not able .to get the necessary cards for the courses. A priority system for assigning who gets the cards ·· was· stated by Danziger and will be discussed at tbe next AAC meeting. Ben Hecksher, was heard from next. The main issue for discussion was the submission of Finance Committee minutes and the approvaloftwo Finance Committee funding propos~s. (All requests for additiQnal allocation of student activities' funds must ·be provided by the Forum.) After a somewhat involved discussion, the Fot1,1m passed two moti<ms, . both allocating the requested funds. ·Food Service provided an addition8I area of discussion. · Though .Jan Gray was unable to attend, it was the general sentiment of the Forum that sotne form of action should be taken. Action came in the fonn of a formal recommendation to the Student Affairs Council (SAC) to examine what is ac- tually , occurring, to study student attitudes toward Food Service, and to look into ·the possible resurgence of Late Nite Bites. In addition, Student Trustee Melissa Viglielmo promised to raise the issue, at the next meeting of the Student Affairs Committe, to the Trustees. The last major issue to be disc~sed was the allocation of initial-funding for a campus- wide held raffle to raise money for Proctor's Theatre. The theatre is currently. undergoing renovations, and · the money raised would be delivered to Proctors from the college in the form of a good will gesture. Tickets for the raffle will be sold starting this Saturday until the Saturday of the homecoming football game. Though the full details of the raffle were not decide.d upon, the Forum passed a- motion allocating a $200 ceiling for the acquisition of raffle prizes and printing costs (of tickets). After the tickets are sold, the revenue will then be calculated sub- tracting the $200 allocation. The Forum will then decide how to deal with the profit. As for next Monday's agenda, the following issues will be subject for discussion: selection of an ISC Representative, procedures for election of a Sophomore Representative and Student Awareness Day. Attention: Applications Now Being · _Accepted for the Followir,g Committees- Film Committee (3openings) · Social Committee (3 openings) Conc~rt Commit!ee 16 openin_gsl Speaker's Forum (6openings) Elect1ons Comm1ttee (6open1ngs) , Traffic and Pet Court (4 openings, 1 . chair vacancy) All students encouraged to apply! This is a good opportuni·tv for underclassmen to 9et involved! Deadline: Friday. October 7. Pick up ap pficati<ms at Student Activities .. UNDERGRADUATE OPPORTUNITlES The Scholarship Research Institute is offering $1,000 awards to three full-time undergraduates with a GPA of at least 2.0. Deadline: October 30, 1983 for Spring 1984. · International Computer Programs, Inc. is offering~ $5;000 scholarship to a computer science or . computer technology student in the Class of 1985 or 1986,. with a GPA of at least 3;0. Deadline: November 15, 1983 for the 1984-85 academic year. GRADUATE OPPORTUNITIES Zonta Amelia Earhart Fellowship Awards in the amount of $5,000 will be made to thirty women studying in an aerospace-related field on the graduate level. Deadline: January 1, 1984 for the 1984-85 academic year. The State of New York is offering renewable awards to New York residents enrolled in a graduate medical degree program at a New York institution. Deadline: February 6, 1984 for the 1984-85acaden:rlc year. . . . .. The State of New Jersey is offering $4,000 renewable awards to graduate students In a non- professional degree program at a New Jersey institution. Deadline: March 1, 1984 for the 1984-85 academic yea~:. - ¥ Information on applications for these and other schQlarships are available in the Financial Aid Office; Contact.Toni L. Dailor. Assistant Director. . .. .... •

.. t CONCORDJENSJS, September 29, 1983 PageS Peddling· Class Notes (CPS)- A former University of Miami student's attempt to return to Qalllpus with ·a business peddling class notes was scuttled recently by Miami administrators angered by his advertising. . Former biology major Martin Schroth set up a booth at registration without approval, and (!ontended the university had endorsed his business. \He said the service was approved by the dean· of Arts and Sciences and that he had the endorsement of a number of instructors · when he really didn't,\ says Richard Pfau, associate dean .of Arts and Sciences. Schroth had been soliciting students at the booth to take notes. He offered to pay them $100 a semester to take notes. Schroth would then type the notes, selling them to other s~uden,ts for $1.2~ pet class per week. The university told Schroth to get of( campus when it discovered his. boQth in front of the bookstore during registration. Schroth now says he may pursue his plans for the business off campus. Similar professional' note .. taking· businesses are thriving on and off other campuses. San Diego State University runs its own service through the campus . Copy Center and Student Services department. \We hire only graduate students, usually · from within the department for which notes are being taken, and we require authorization from the in- structor of the specific class/' says Susan Schenkel, super• visor of the Student Services center. The graduate note takers get from $9 to $13.50 a classroom hour, Schenkel says, and DENSA Is In l By DAVE FITZGERALD not preparing for it one should Associate Features Editor remember the slogan, ''Why be tense, when you can be dense?\ Here at Union most people try to act smart but after reading this maybe some will dare.to be dense .. DENSA (Diversely Educated Not Seriously Affected), created by Steve Price, was created to lambast IQ testing and intellectuals who hypothesize that a brain is not filled with laughizlg matter- It is the antithesis of Mensa. ·.This spoof- ow that famed group· for the intelligenstia. began last year but already it has been a great suc(!ess. -At first a few applicants made their interest known by stamping their letters on the wrong side of the envelope. Then the idea of an entrance exam was thought of. The exam requires no studying and when Not only the very dense have joined DENSA. Eight members of Mensa have changed from being smart to being dense. It is not expected that many more pe~ple will convert because, as Pnte put, \Most Mensa members can't take a joke.\ DENSA people on the other· hand are great jokers and they even . f~d jokes with fargotten punch·lmes funn;y; ·Their hoO:. bies 'include watching· TV 'and reading trashy · novels. Celebrities that qualify include Bill Murray and Lily Tomlin. If you too ·feel that being an in- tellectual is just too much and you now want t() be funny take the DEN~A quiz and see what your DQ is and if you qualify. The DENSA Quiz 1. Define universe, and give two examples. , 2. People who eat food live longer than people who don't eat food. True or False. 3. Which word·doesn't rhyme: bar, car, far, jar, miscellaneous, star,.tar? 4. How many st~rs in the sky? a. all Of the above 5. A friend gives you one dollar bill. What do you have 1 a. a dollar bill b. % pack of cigarettes c. not much d all of the above 6. Name three cities that don't have re~taurants with golden ar- ches. a. b. c. 7. The Densa Maze start 8. Who doesn't fit in? a. Washington b. Liberace c. Lincoln d. J. Adams Mail this test to: DENSA P.O. Box 214338 D;illas, Texas 75221 Discover the magic of good books THE OPEN DOOR 128-136 Joy Street Downtown ScheneCtady 046·2719 finish students pay from $12 to $15 per class .for a semester's worth of notes. Over 2500 students sign up for the service each term, she adds. Berkely also owns its own note-taking service, which started as an off-campus operation, but was moved onto campus by the university several years ago. UCLA's elaborate note.taking service ~pans over 125 courses. As many as 50 percent· of the students in those classes will buy notes, a UCLA spokesman says. He contends it's the largest service of its kind in the U$ \Within the last 15 years, there's really been a big change in the way professors perceive the use of professional study services,\ says Gary Carey, editor of CUff Notes, which publishes study guides for everything from calculus to Shake~pe~rean :Pl'a.ys. . \Today most instructors don't think twice about seeing .students· with a bundle of our study guides under their arms,\ he says. Not· everyone in the note- taking industry is as upbeat. One student entrepreneur at Michigan State University recently closed his class notes operation \because I couldn't convince myself that it was ethically correct.\ \I ran the service for a term, and it was real successful,\ recalls Bob ·Doroshewitz, a psychology major. \But students in the large lecture class couJd use the notes. to avoid attending 'class, ai].d ·that bothered. me/~· It bothers Miami officials, too. Pfau \has no objection to notes being S()ld as strictly a supplemental service in clasaes where attendance is required.\ But in large lecture classes without '' regular attendance reports, \ students could buy notes instead of attending. class. Even at San Diego State, where the university owns the service, the History and Zoology departments bar professional note takers and even tape recorders from .their classes. · A man - must. . have a certain amount of· · intelligent ranee to ·.anywhere. • Igno- get -C.F. Kettering Fall Retreat • Oct. 14-15, Newburgh, N.Y. • Sponsored by Baptist Convention of New York . • Open to all students • $8 .00 per person covers· everything (food, lodging,etc.) • Cal:l 370-6087.to sign up • Ken Medema. will be · featured FEATURES Gordon S'loss, St. Andrew's Exchange St.udent ·Prof;/e- Student Exchange By BETSY TREITLER Staff He is here from the oldest and finest University in Scotland to acquaint himself with American standards of life and education. Gordon Sloss, one of approximately thirty ap- plicants, is the recipient of the exchange scholarship program from St. Andrews University to Union College. , Sloss, a nati:ve ··of Arran, a . small isle off ,the west. coast of Scotland, studies medicine and biology at St. Andrews. He is currently on leave of absence but will return, as a senior, to the University one year from October. Gordon, during 1 the current term, will study the Russian and German languages in addition to American history. His special interest is in foreign l~guages and presently he speaks French and Danish in addition to English. His choice of a course in American history is to enhance his experience in America. The primary distinction, says Gordon, between St. Andrews University and Union College is · the size and therefore the more personalized atmosphere at Union. Professors and their styles of teaching, at both in- stitutions, are rather similar. However, Gordon notes that professors here seem to be more approachable. Further, St. Andrews, an institution divided into three faculties; Science, Arts, and Divinity, is more .specialized. Gordon ex- presses interest in the concept of the liberal arts education. St. Andrews University ad- ministration reQuires an early declaration of major which may be changed if conditions warrant it. Gordon praises Union College's philosophy of education, noting the liberal learning requirements and ~eeing it as \another system of · education through diverse courses.\ St. Andrews University, founded in 1412 and comprised of 3,500 students, emphasizes acadtmiicS $<l :tradition.. The\ r.ed gown is .the qnifollil which, thol.lgh not required, may be worn for anything from academic classes and formals to church, May Day celebration and services dedicated to the University administration and faculty. Social life is always popular as a means of diversion from studies. It revolves around clubs, sports and parties. Students congregate at the Student Union and pubs. Parties given by residents in private flats are popular since only approximately one half ot the student body live in University- owned housing. Fraternity life is new to Gordon and rather \interesting as a change from a social life which primarily revolves around pubs.\ Gordon comments on the diversity of students and notes that \people here at Union are more outgoing.\ Sloss is interested in joining the outing club and perhaps the curling club. He enjoys sports, particularly golf, tennis, swimming, track and sailing. He plans to try the ski slopes during winter and he hopes to travel around the states and Canada during ·vacations and the summer. Dutchman's Night at the Pub The first Dutchman's Night dinner wil--l be October 15 y

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, September 29, /983 r-----------------------------, : Should Union Students : I I • Address the Hunger Issue? ' I I • Organizing Session 1 I I 1 With Pro9ram , I 1· 1 Tues., Oct. 4 at 7:30 1 I I 1 Carnegie 4th floor Loung.eProgram: 1 : Slide Presentation Presentation on l 1 Oxfa m America--a world hunger 1 : organization l 1 I nitia I Sponsor: Campus Ministry I : Box 2531, x6087 l l-----------------------------~ Find your pot ofgo/d At SOT's Rainbow Party! Win a Case of Molson Golden :Drawing at Party Tuesday, Oct. 4 Tickets cost 50e .-•, ... •' .. DATE: Oct. 3 & 4 TIM:·E: 9·5 PLACE: Carnegie Hall PRICES MOS:r LARGE ~RINTS $ 3~50 each or 3 for S 9.00 ~ MOST SMALL PRINTS S 2.00 each or 3 for S 5.00 Get to the answers faster. With the ll-55 .. 11. · · What you need to tackle the higher mathematics of a science or engineering cur~ riculum are more functions - more functions than a simple slide-rule calculator has. Enter the TI-55-II, with 112 powerful functions. You can work faster and more accurately with the TI-55-II, because it's preprograrnmed © 198} Texas Instruments to perform complex calcula- the TI-55-II even simpler, tions -like definite integrals, and shows you how to use all linear regression and hyper- the power of the calculator. holies - at the touch of a Get to the answers faster. button. And it can also be Let a TI-55-II Jis programmed to do repetitive show you how. V problems without re-entering TJ the entire formula. EXAS ~~~luded is. the Calculator INSTRUMENTS Deczsron-Makmg Sourcebook. Creating useful products I.t makes the process of using and services _fo~ you. ,• IMAG:IN-US EXHI,'B·ITI·ON AND SALE of FINE ART REPRODUCTIONS NEW THIS YEAR: • CLASSIC PHOTOGRAPH$ • POSTCARDS . ~ • EXHIBITION POSTERS • RARE PRINTS FEATURING: Old Masters, Impressionism, Surrealism, Van Gogh, .Picasso, Escher, 19th - 20th Century American, E. S. Curtis, Norman Ra.ckwell, Oriental Art and Museum Posters from the Metropolitan, Walker, Gug-genheim, National I Gallery and more. OVER 200 DIFFERENT IMAGES FOO'D SERVICE Due to the~ confusion experienc;ecl ·by- stu~ents about wha.t specific · services they were purchasing throu.gh Food Service, we are offering. to change all Monday through Friday 1 0-meal plans for . II Any-1 0\ meal plans at . no additional charge for the fall 19e3 semes.ter only. Both the Monday through Friday 1 0 and the 11 Any·1 0\ will be offered in winter term. However, the any· 1 0 meal plan will · be priced higher to reflect the negation of the missed me~l factor. All changes must be completed by Octo~er 1 0, 19 8.3. - WOMEN'S· SUPPORT GROUP Organizational ~·Meeting Thurs., Sept. 29 • 4:30 _,p.m. Strauss lounge- -Carnegie A support group for women will begin the week of October 3 and will meet once a week for the rest of the term. The. ~ purpose of the support group is to discuss women's concerns in an atmosphere of mutual concern ond support. The O'lJanizational meeting wilf be held to discuss what kind· of group the participants would like it to be. Possible themes are life transitiolls, education, careers, interpersonal relationships, fondly concerns, ~ete. Partltipants will decide o meeting day ondtime. The group is open to all College women, including students, fatulfV, faculty · wives, staff, and administrators. For further information, or ·if you cannot attend the organizational meeting and would like to participate In the group, · contpct Sandy Greenberg at 372·4318. ... , I • ! ! • I 1 ~~ ! ' ' ·I ··' ...

.... , I .·d. I ! ' . I ' I .I f-• I I : 1 .\ CONCORI)lENSIS, September 29, 191J3 Page7 Acquaintance Rape (CPS)- The real number of campus rspes and sexual assault cases ma.y be higher than believed, according to a stUdy on sexual attitudes. . Nearly one out of every stx male students questioned ad- mitted to for-cing women to have sex: with them. Moreover, 20 percent of the female students surveyed said they had been forced t~ have sex: even though they obJected. Surprisingly, \very f~w o~the women defined such s1tuat1ons as rape;\\ notes . ·Auburn psychologist. Barry Burkhart, who helped direct the study. \Noneoftbese men were ever arrested or charged with rape, and as far as I know none of the women had reported .what happened to the~,·· he .says .. The reason, 1t seems, 1s because all of the inCidents involved what experts are now calling \acquaintance rape.\ ''We're finding that acquaintance rape. is a very frequent type of incident that takes place on campuses,\ sa~s Dan Keller, director of pubUc safety at the University of Louisville. ''It could typically involve a gtrl and guy who me.et at a party, then the . guy invites the .... girl home and physically forces her to have sex. ~The guy just won't take no for an answer, even if it means using. force.\ The Auburn study shows that most of the time neither male nor female considers that a rape has occurred, Keller continues, \because of the traditional conc~pt of rape as a situation where somebody grabs you off the sidewalk and attacks you.\ Burkhart calls the results both \surprising and distressing\ because \they indicate that there's still a great deal of rape sentiment among males in ou.r ,.society,\ · Keller believes that for every case of reported student rape by a stranger, \there are dozens of cases of acquaintance rape that weren't reported.\ Burkhart says that despite the 40 rape cases disclosed by his study, \campus police have had only two rape cases reported in the last several years.\ FEATURES Assistant P-rofessor K.H. Guruba•favaraj is the r:~ewest addition to the departments of E;lectrica 1 Engineerir:Jg and Computer Science. Guru at Union By LINDA M. RAFFAELE This year a new face in the departments of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science ·is Assistant Professor K. H. Gurubafavaraj. Originally from India, · Gurubafavaraj (who prefers to be called Professor Guru) graduated from the University of Mysore. He received his MS in Electrical Engineering at the University of Bangalore. Three years ago he came to the United States to further his education and earned a PhD. in Electrical and Systems Engineering at the University of Nebraska- Lincoln. He taught there and at the University of Engineering College in Bangalore, India. This term at Union he is teaching two classes: one un- dergraduate course in Systems Theory and a graduate course in Network Analysis. Gurubafavaraj has found the students and other faculty members here at Union to be very hospitable. In addition, he feels that the students interact well with each other. When questioned about the dif- ferences between teaching in India and teaching in the U.S., Gurubafavaraj pointed out that professors here have more responsibility. They have greater freedom . to use thejr own teaching styles here, so consequently, the quality of learning depends a lot on them. In India, teaching· procedures are much more standardized. Gurubafavaraj is excited about the prospects that lie ahead for computer and engineering students. He sees both fields opening up and expanding greatly in the next two decades. He also believes firmly in a liberal arts education to broaden the mind. Married, Gurubafavaraj has two children: Ramono, 5 and Sheila, 1. In his free time, he enjoys swimming, jogging, and playing tennis, ''not all at the same time,\ he is quick to add. He is also interested in the study of the evolution of civilizations. A varied and interesting in- dividual, Gurubafavaraj is a welcome addition to the Union faculty. Anorexia Bulimia S~lf-Help Group Meets every 1st and 3rd Monday of each. month from 7-9 p.m·. in the lower level of Silliman Hall. Topic for Mon., Oct. 3 11 Anorexia Nervosa: A Personal Story\ All are welcome (confidentiality upheld)

\ Page8 CONCORDIENSJS, September 29. 1983 FounJnl at llmoo Collec~ 1817 ------~--- ----------- In Good Hands Last year, Union had two good assistant deans of students, Jane Wood and Mike Andolina, as welias a . top-notch director of financial aid. The names and faces have changed, but the facts haven't. Bob Massa has proven himself to this college as a dedicated, competent and efficient at;iministrator. Any· student who walked into the student aid office during the past few years found a director willing to stop what he was domg and give full attention to the student's problem. Bob displayed a sincere, caring attitude toward personal financial trouble, and exuded a feeling of enthusiasm and determination about Union in general. He fought for Union, and he fought for his students. On the other side of the Nott Memorial his qualities will continue to shine; he'll make a great assistant dean. Massa's fonner post remains in excellent hands. Warm and understanding, Ellen Frishberg is more than simply an adminstrator. No one could be more concerned over the needs and successes of both the people she serves and of society in general. Her views are thought-out, broad-minded, and progressive- exactly what we need in that office at the top of the stairs in Becker HaU. Union has a treasure in Frishberg. Every college should have someone like Ellen infmaneial aid. · · Frishberg's new assistant, Toni Dailor, comes to Union well-qualified. We welcome her to the Union conunwrlty and feel confident that she will maintain the high standards of her predecessor. Anyone who has follow:ed the activities of the Career Development Center since February will laud the appointment of Joanne Tobiesseri as assistant dean. She has upgraded the physical setting and the programs offered b.y the center, and has received well-deserved.~ praise for her actions. Tobiessen is infonried and intelligent, with special interests · pertinent to her new position. Above :all, Tobiess.en has already gained a reputation at Union for being · conscientious. Congratulations to our new administrators. The college could not have found better. AHention Sophomores! A special election will be held Friday, Oct. 7 · to fill repre- the one · sophomore sentative vacancy on Student Forum. Petitions are now available from Mrs. Marra, sJudent activities coordinator, and must be returned to her with 100 signatures by 4:30 p.m., Tuesday, Oct. 4 .. BLOODMOBILE A SUCCESS Many thanks to those who gave blood and to Theta Delta Chi for all their help. We went over our goal (76 people/day) for all three days the bloodmobile was here. Again, Union came through and I really appreciate it. Day 1: 93 Day 2: 99 Day 3: 87 L.Marra LETTERS ' Forum Rep Speaks o·ut To the Editor: As the school year begins, so begins a new Student Forum. . For a productive student government, it is essential that · we hear from you, the students. From my past experience I realize that very few students fully understand how the Forum works. The point of this letter is · to suggest your participation in our governnnent. Please come to our meetings (Every Monday at 9:00, fourth floorCatnegie) to see what types of issues we are addressing. ·r encourage you to talk with your class .representatives. They need to know what your concerns are. There have been many changes on campus this term, and I'm sure many. of you have questions about them. If we are going to successfully represent your concerns, we need INPUT! Sincerely, SUsan G. Brand Jr. Class Representative: Activities Expo a Success To the Union College Com- . mup.lty: On behalf of the Students Activities Expo coordinators, we'd like to extend our sinceve thanks to everyone who helped and support. make the 1983, \Expose yourself to· Union\ a success ... A special thanks goes to Mrs. Matta for her help, enthusiasm, June Glaser '84 Kathy Stoll '84 Susie Wilder '84 All letters to the editor must be typed and received by Con- cordiensis before 3 .p~m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters ~ust be signed but names will be withheld upon .request. UNION COLLEGE 1 S SOCIOLOGY DEPARTMENT AND THE HUDSON-MOHAWK CONSORTIUM.OF COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES' Present a lecture by JAMES D. COCKROFT on 11 Mexico: OH and Migrant Workers\ October 3, 7:30p.m. Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall Union College CO,LL.:OQU I U M O:N T R.ANSLA T I ONAL Ml G RA Tl 0~ October 3, 3:30p.m. Tracy Room, Social Science Building · Dr. Cockroft's lecture and the coUoquium, are based on his recent book, Mel<ico: Class For- mation, capital Accumulation, and the State (Monthly Review Press, 1983). Cockroft, who specializes in the sociology of development, nas lived and worked in M~xico for many years. He is an editor of Latin American Perspectives (Monthly Review Press, 1968), Dependence and Un- · derdevelopment: Latin Americ;a's Political Economy (with Andre Gunder Frank and Dale Johnson, Monthly Review Press, 1972), Iran in Revolution Cwi'th Thomas Ricks1 Monthly Review .Press, 1983), and many other books. Cockroft currently directs a research feam at the Univer· sidad Autonoma Metropol itana-Azcapotzalco in Mexico City on migration and border problems. For additional information contact: Martha Huggins, Department of Sociology, 370-6227. Want to be aWRUC Newscaster? Come to the WRUC News Meeting Thurs., Sept. 29, 7:30 p.m. at WRUC! No Prior Experience Needed! Commentaries Represe·nt the Views of the Author and not the Editorial Board of Con· co.rdiensis. Editors~in-Chief News Editors Features Editor Associate Features Editors Arts Editors Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Advertising Editors Julie Abelman, Doug Landon Jay Baruch, Gayle Rosenfeld Donna Getson Dave Fitzgerald, Franklin Schneider Debbie Albert Karen Lissauer Karen Greaves, Jill Kaufman Drew HQ.rley, Paul Kurker · Mary Ann Gagliardi, Heidi Rosen Layout Advisor Peter Mohr Photo Editor Mary M. Phillips Associate Photo Editor Daphne Chigas Sports Photo Editor Robert Tang Subscriptions Editor Lori Kaplan Political Cartoonist Davtd Neiblum Staff Jan Baran, Jill Bradley, Lou George, Chris Hand, Christine Marschlng, Robin Molella, Lori Ollwenstein, Diane Pavacic, Steve Pitaino, Linda Raffaele, Rob Rissell; Patti Sacks, Janice Thompson, Peter Stegeman, Scott Wykoff, Linda Zahnlenter, Debbie Rose, Betsy Treitler Photo Staff Jon Barofsky, Paul Klein, Patti Sacks,. , Sue Serenska, Larry Shapiro CONCOJl,DIENSIS is ·published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications . Office:· SusquehaiUla Publications, Inc., :Box 388j Sidneyj New York 13838 (607) 563- 7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as first class matter. Subscription rate, $18 per year, delivered anywhere in the United State.S. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau ( CNB). Office Telephone -3'70-6155. .. I~. I il .... - • 't ' ' ' ' .: ~ ~ ~ ~ 4 4 4 5 5 5 61 6 \\' ..:. 6: 6: 0

i ~ .... - • 't ,_ ,... : I I The Court Gestures Off- Broadway Smash Hit COMING SOON! ACROSS 3 Wager 1 Watch 4 Soup ingred- pocket. ient 4 Clay-colored 5 eurning, as pigment of documents 9 Dove·s cry 6 Exclamation 12 Exist 7 Male sheep 13 t. outh African 8 Lamb's pen village name 14 Su ·cor 9 Uncouth 15 Ret·eat person 17 C13nter 10 Lubricate 19 Gold fabric 11 Poem 21 Diphthong 161sland, in 22 Skin problem Paris 25. Macaw 18 Lure 27 Approach 20 Time period 31 Cry of cow 22 Collect 32 Paper and 23 Heavenly pen d,;~aler body 34 Part of to be 24 Negative 35 Hawai.an 26 Special con- rootstock slderation 36 Attempt 28 Preposition 37 Sun 1 god 29 Earn 38 Florida 30 Expunge Indians 32 Offspring 41 Roman god 42 Stupefy 43 Negative 'Prefix 44 Location 45 Latin conjunction . 4 7 Beehive state 49 Crucial times 53 Peaceful 5.7 Goal . 58 Thurmond of the Senate 60 Fuss 61 Soft food 62 Moul'ltairi lakes 63 Seed container DOWN 1 Distant 2 Oslo coin CONCORDIENSIS, September 19, 1983 Page9 COMMENTARIES News From The Capital By JACK ANDERSO~ . and JOE SPEAR WASHINGTON--Headache remedies and cold tablets are advertised every day on television. Rival commerc:ials insist their product is the strongest medication you can· buy withQut a doctor's prescription. lf your ailment isn't cured by an over-the- counter pill, you can always count on your·doctor for a better remedy. That's the American way~ but it's going to change. The FoQd and Drug Administration is thinl,dng of letting the drug com p a.n i es advertise prescription drugs the way they CROSS WORD PUZZLE FROM COLLEG.E PRE~S SERVICE 33 Federal agcy. 49 Headgear 35 Evergreens 50 Inlet 39 Fraternity 51 Demon letter 52 Amtrak stop 40 \- Grant\ .54 Short sleep 41-501: Rom. · 55 Artificial 44 Haggard title , language 46 Tr.ial .56 t=ood fish 48 Limbs . 59 Amtrak train do over·the-cC>unter products. The pharmaceutical ·industry is all for the idea, but consumer groups and doctors-and even some officials in the Food and Drug Administration-are horrified. If the· big dr11g companies can advertise their prescription medications like breakfast food or beer, patients. may insist that their doctors . ·prescribe the remedies that h.ave the cata chiest commercials. If the doctor doesn't think the product is appropriate, the patient may end up sbopping around for the \right\ _physician. In addition, a cl.rug company ' that spends millions ·of .dollars advertising its pr.escription drugs will have ·to add the ad- vertising costs· onto the pric~ of the prescription. This means that ,prescriptio-n drugs will cost even more than they already do. Allof thls.has been spelled out in an internal Food and Drug Administration memorandwn that we've seen. The document also pojnts out that the government knC>ws the public doesn't thlnk m11ch of the idea that' prescription drugs should be advertised. 'Fhe Food and Drug Administration ran an ex- tensive survey of the general public this year and found that 60 percent .of th.ose questioned thought it was a bad idea. Twenty pe:rcent of the respondents were willing to let tlle drug companies advertise prescription dr11gs only if the government kept .strict control over the ads. Even with au· the ~vldence that the advertising of prescription dr11gs would be costly, dangerous and un- popular, the Fo<ld and Drug AdminiStration is leaning toward permitting the drug industry to laUilch its media campaign. GRUEL WAR: Nicaragua is in tunnoil, with several factions attempting to wrest control from. the left-wing Sandinista government. How these anti- communist factions treat civilians and prisoners in- dicates how their leaders might rule the country should they emerge victorious. Here's a rtmdown:· .:._The Sandinistas make us.e of intelligence agents who track down dissidents and drag them out of their homes in the middle of the night. Many are sent directly to prison; others are · forced to make public con- fessions. -TheCIA-backed FDN relies on a civilian ~PY network which forces citizens to inform on their countryiiien. The civilian · spies are thus caught in the middle: If they are discovered informing f(,)r one side, the. other will kill them. ~The M:isura group of Miskito Indian rebels· .attempts to recrUit prisonersto its cause. If an enemy soldier declines to switch sides, he is summarily executed. -Rebel leader Eden Pastora-' 'Commander Zer- o\-is the only one who does not torture his prisoners. He thinks the practice is counter· productive, and he turns his prisoners over to the Costa Rican Red Cross. Meanwhile, a major mutiny has occurred in the Misilra Indian group. Nearly half of the forces changed allegiance from one leader to another. The renegades were dissatisfied with the ·amance 'forged by their leader, Steadman.Fagoth, with the largest group, the FDN. The mutiny was quelled by Hon- duran troops, and the leaders were placed under arrest. In the meantime, the United States has recruited three new allies in the anti-8andinista battle. Brazilian officers are teaching the rebels guerrilla techniques; Venezuela is providing funds; and Israel is providing arms, training and money. A fourth country, Colombia, rejected the ·CIA's request for help in toppling the Sandinistas. THIRD'-WORLD RIFT: According to our intelligence sources, there's been a strange split between two of the Third World's most notorious leaders-Libya's Muammar Qaddafi and Cuba's Fidel Castro. They differ over strategy toward El Salvador. Qaddafi is urging leftist guerrillas in El Salvador to wage a long, drawn-out war of attrition with a military victory as the ultimate goal. Castro, on the otber hand, is . more pragmatic. He favors negotiations to end the fighting. Some intelligence analysts say this explains why a shiP. ment of anns sent by Qaddafi to Salvadoran rebels last April went by way of Brazil instead of Cuba. Some experts even believe Castro may have tipped off the Brazilian government about the shipment. Brazilian authorities seized the planes and created a major ema barrassment for Qaddafi. HEADLINES AND FOOT- NOTES: There's a scandal iii the works ove:r security for the 1984 .. swruner Olympic games. The FBI has insisted on running the show but critics say the bureau is off to a slow start. ~The Arab states of Qatar, Kuwait· and the United Arab Emirates fear that Paiestiliian immigrants will foment terrorism. Kuwait has gone so far as to contract for a com- puter system that will spot Palestinians who attempt to settle there. United fl'eEttm•e DUELING OPINIONS Bilingual education has been offered on a limited basis in the United States. So.me praise the concept, while others maintain it is unnecessary and even harmful to those involved. THIS WEEK'S QUESTION: Should we encourage im- migrants to learn and use English, or should we teach them in their own language? For answers see page 13 Dueling Opinions: Each week the Concordiensis will invite the Union Community {students, .faculty, administration & staff) to express its opinion in a debate over a current issue. Responses must be typed, double-spaced, and received by the Conco.rdiensis no later than Monday, October 3. There will be a g.eneral meeting of Union's literary magazi- ne, the Idol on Monday, October 3, in the Idol office on third ·floor Carnegie. Anyone with an interest in writing, photog- raphy, the arts in general or the pub I ication of the magazine itself is encouraged to attend. For more information contact Jon Skinner, Ext. 6591

E I'll c <II Cl c +- L ro ~ ...: 0 ... Q. >- ..0 0 +- 0 .c a. Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, September 29, 1983 • THE ARTS ·Faculty Art Exhib_it \Xmas day, Jamaica, 1982\ By JANICE C. THOMPSON The Union College Arts Department Faculty is putting on an art show in the temporary Kreusi. Art Gallery, starting Monday, Sept. 26. The 21 works are representative of the very interestin,g personalities, backgrounds and hobbies, of the j Arts Dept. professors who ::!Ontributed them. Each print, sculpture or etching tells a story; they only need observers :o tell it to. Prof Marty Benjamin teaches Jhotography and has donated nany prints to the show. A arge section of his works deal ;vith Buddy Holly, a well known ·ock singer who died in a plane !rash on Feb. 3, 1959. Benjamin 1ad his own art show in April, l983, in Lubbock, Texas, Holly's 1ometown. While visiting there, BenjarniJ1 took pictures of the Buddy Holly statue, his guitar, lis brother, and places he used :o go to when he was growing 11p. All the film Benjamin used in Texas was given to him as a ~rant from Polaroid's Creative <\rtists Services Program. other prints by Prof Ben- jamin were taken in Montego Bay, Jamaica, and Ellis Island. ... and Union Laughed By CHRIS HAND Once upon a time, a couple of years ago, two kindred souls came up with a smashing idea. It wasn't that it was a terribly destructive idea nor was it vandalistic. It was an idea that would make people laugh. At Union College, almost in the heart of the Adironuacks, people hadn't laughed for ages. Thre had been feeble attempts to resurrect the now mythological Nottwitts. These attempts faded miserably, no Pheonix was it. However, ·all was not lost in that people still wanted to laugh even if there were no Nottwitts. So for two years the student body went to SDT parties. But then these two kindred soulds, you haven't forgotten our kindred souls, have you? But then these two kindred souls appeared on the scene and lo and behold, as if by magic a sign appeared outside of 'Carnegie proclaiming the next week to be named \Auditions.\ Now this day was a dark and gloomy day, it was the middle of winter term, snow was on the ground and everybody's nose was in their books. But as soon as this sign appeared the clouds disap- peared, the snow melted, the sun rose high and mighty, and for 8 hearty individuals (who for General Meeting Thurs., Sept. 29 in the Nott All members are urged to attend! reasons that shall remain nameless) their noses were plucked trom the depths of Economics 11. It was quickly decided that the two kindred souls would abdicate in favor of 8 hearty individuals, although these 8 hearty individuals were the two kindred souls plus six. Amidst large quantities of alcohol, fast cars, loose women, and easy professors a troupe was bom. In the unforgettable words of Anna \The Court Gestures\ were born·. We studied bard, we rehearsed every night, we got angry, we cried, we (the lucky few) for- nicated, we didn't laugh. But we . were determined. It was one lucky Court Gesture who coined the phrase, ''If at first you don't succeed, keep pluggin'.\ Finally our first show was upon us. We thought we were so cold, the audience was hot. Somebody yelled \Freeze\ and we didn't stop. By this time it was spring and we had people laughing, the campus C()IrnilWlity was in our hand. If we close it they laughed, if we waved they laughed, if we gave them the finger they laughed. It was so easy. Like fantastic. We were flying as Q}gh as a kite. But theJ;l the mandatory downfall came. Somebody should've noticed . when there was a major snowstorm in April. Things loomed large. We got so cocky that the gnly thing we could do is fall. And fall we did. But we did it with grace. W. e had been taking lessons from Fred Astaire. People still laughed. But some cried as well and the previous grip we had began to melt. But all was not for naught, there still remained 3 weeks left in the term. That was enough time for the gestures to regroup, think, and emerge on the scene as something much more than anything else. We were destined to be bigger than the idol, and uglier too. More cacophonous than the men's and women's glee clubs com- bined and we wanted to make people laugh. Things did not look too good for the Court Gestures though, certain key rehearsals, we had no material and no money. But would that stop us? We didn't think-so: We barreled into the cabaret room high on ourselves, not caring whether we lived or died. It was to be one last bonfire, for most people thought the Court Gestures were to be no more. We succeeded the third show which was a magic show. The punches were incredible, the laughs were glorious. But one sad note that resounded throughout the school was that 6 Gestures were to leave -- (To Be Continued). Yearbook prices will increase after tomorrow--from $15.50 to $20.00. ' Buy now & save! Also--only $1.00 to pu.t your name on the cover of your book. P .S. Yearbook Meetings: Wednesdays at 7 p.m., 4th floor·, Carnegie Hall. He went to Jamaica last Christmas on a working vacation, \though I don't count this as work,\ he says. He spent two weeks at Ellis Island this past swnmer as a guest artist of the Montclair State University Advanced Photo Class held there: Two sculptures were donated by Prof. Alfred Frakes, who is currently taking over for Alex Markoff, who is away due to back surgery. Markoff also , donated one sculpture, which is an optical illusion done in corten steel. Frakes is an adjunct faculty member and teaches 3- Ddesign. His two sculptures are made of cast concrete and cast acrylic plastic, and he created them during his middle year in the Masters of Fine Arts Program in Albany. He says, \My sculptures are a result of my exploration Of the jux- taposition of primary forms, such as cubes, using materials that have similar. physical makeup and are made the same· way.\ The most well known member of the Arts faculty is Prof. Bittleman, who donated three of his works to the show. Bitm tleman attended the Yale School of Fine Arts and has been on Union's staff for 17 'years. His three works are aU very detailed, and are of thick foliage. Two are done in pen and ink, and are good examples for Bittleman'sDrawing I students. \If anyone wants to know how to draw,\ Chairman Daniel Robbins says of them, \he-she should look at these.\ The fifth member of the faculty who is involved in the show is Prof. Charles Steckler, who teaches stage design. He has donated photo prints, some of which display models of his stage designs. The show will continue until Nov. 22. Hours are from Monday to Thursday, 12:3().. 3:00. If one wants to see the show at other times, one may get the key from the Arts Dept. secretary during office hours. The show will be open especially for Homecoming Weekend on Sat., Oct. 8, from 1- 4. There will also be a reception for the show on Wed.,. Oct. 12, from 4-6 in the afternoon. Fraternity Favorites By GUS and MR. A. It is barely third week of fall term and unless you are a fresh- man, you are probably beginning to get bored with the Union party scene already. On a campus such as ours where the social life of the undergraduate population seems to be domj.nated by a few fraternities it is essential that • these . fraternities have suc- cessful parties. One of the vital inputs of a successful party, besides an endless supply of alcoholis to have proper college music. This music should reflect the total college ex- perience and at the same time provide a tempo that is con~ ducive to social activities such as dancing, conversation, or just plain old horsing around. By \proper\ college music we are not referring to groups such as Van Halen or Def Leppard, who fail to meet the above criteria (but who seem to show up again and again on Union fraternity party tapes). Instead we favor soul and rhythm and blues, dance and ne:w wave. While some of these types of songs have been popularize<;~ by recent films and others are recent releases we feel the best compilation of ],i'raternity Favorites was the list done by Dave Marsh and Kevin Stein in their book The Book of Rock Lists. The Court Gestures Are Coming Soon Watch out for them so you don't miss the laughs everyone talks ab.out! 1. \Baby Let Me Bang Your Box,\ by Doug Clark and The Hot Nuts 2. \Double Shot of My Baby's Love\ by The Swinging Medallions 3. ''Louis Louie\ by The Kingsmen 4. \Last Night\ by the Mark- Keys · 5. \Little Latin Lupe Lu\ by Mitch Ryder & The Detroit Wheels· 6. ··\Farmer John\ by The Premiers 7.\Quarterto Three\ by Gary U.S. Bonds 8. \Respectable\ by The Outsiders 9. \Shout\ by The Isley Brothers 10. ''You Can't Sit Down\ by The Dovells It is obvious that some people are unfamiliar with many of the songs on the list. They do seem to give the listener a feel for what college is \all about\ and can enhance any party situation. Another obstacle to playing these songs on campus is the availability problem, as mo~t of these songs are either out of print or foreign to the Capital District. A road trip to Greenwich Village to seek out some of these classic tunes might ·be one important step in improving social conditions on campus. Posters Godiva Chocolates Kites • Teddy Bears 10% off with Union ID thru Sept. Open 10:30-5:30. Thurs. to B:30 164 Jay Street Schenectady, New York 12305 Phone 5 l 8-374-2803 Mo •. • .. , .,. t( . l ·., I tl L c pi c L p L th

........ .. , .. r CONCORD/ENSJS, September 29, 1983 P11ge 11 THE ARTS Learning About Art By DEBBIE ALBERT and KAREN LISSAUER Professor Donald Thurston is a member of the Political Science Department and Chairman of the History Dep~rtrnent here at Union. His areas of concentration are the history and political systems of China and Japan. In the sum- mer of 1978, Professor Thurston was sent to the University of Kansas for an eight · week seminar for thest1,1dy of Chinese paintings from the .Song and Yuan Dynasties. He. was sent by the National Endo~ent for . Humanities, thru which be developed a very strong interest in that ar-ea. Due to his ex- citement, he left Union for the next fall to study at Harvard. He continued his education· by taking a course in Chinese Painting and one in Japanese Art. . The slide library at Union has been greatly enhanced by the 1000 slides taken by Professor Thurston. Before the Professor's interest in East Asian Art, there were no slides of this type in the library. The slides are of very fine reproductions from the East Asian Art Library at the Frogg Museum at Harvard• Although Professor Thurston is not a bonafide Art Historian he is Jazz Comb.o Date S~f Doug Sertl comes home to the Capital District on Sunday,- October 2, when he will be . joined by members of his Uptown Express jazz combo for an exclusive, one-night-only appearance at Verruto's Paddock Bar. SCHENECTADY -Camerata Bern, featuring Thomas Fueri as director and violinist, and Thomas Deinenga as cellist, will perform at Union College Saturday, Oct. 1. The first concert of the year's Schenectady Museum-Union College Concert Series, it will begin at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. 'The ensemble will perform Vivaldi's Concerto for two I The jazz quartet will play from -8 p.m. to 12 midnight at Verrtlto'S, 1629 State Street (at Route 7), Schenectady. Reservations are advised, and can .be made by calling 372-1114, The $3.00 admission includes . one drink. violins, Bach's Brandenburg Concerto No. 6, Monn's Violin · Concerto, Haydn's Cello Con- certo in C, and Bartok's Divertimento. Tickets are $8 ($4 for students) and are available from the Schenectady Museum, or at the door one hour before the performance. For futher information, contact the museum at 382-7890 or 372-3651. extremeJy knowledgable and his knowledge enables Union to offer a course which otherwise could not be offered. The course itself (History 66 or Arts 76) is a discussion of the forms and techniques of Chinese and Japanese Art. Along with the discussiont the class looks at slides -of art to actually visualize the works. The course can be taken £or a history ar art credit bee 1use one of its aims is to place art into an historical context. The class also introduces students to the principles of Chinese and Japanese aesthetics. It also enables students to gain more respect for the achievements · and more appreciation for the East Asian culture. Prof. Donald thurston Chairman of th~ History Department and ' Poli. Sci. Professor. Crystal Will Sparkle At 8:00p.m. Friday, October 7, Billy Crystal will be speaking in Memorial Chapel as part of Homecoming '83 festivities. Crystal, bQrn in Long Beach, Long Island, N.Y. is known by many for his role of Jodie in the television series \Soap.\ However, this is by no means the limit to his talents. The Los Angeles Times has stated, \Crystal perhaps like only Tomlin and Pryor, can comedically move an audienu ce.\ Earlier this year \The Billy Crystal Comedy Hour\ aired on television. Here Crystal created a whole. series of characters ranging from 83 year-old Julius to Danny Terrio, a professional street punk, whose only known address is New Jersey, Exit 15. . Crystal has also worked with other aspects of the en- tertainment industry. He has written a screenplay entitled · \Gopdnight Moon\ as well as co-authoring a 90-minute comedy special with Rob Reiner and Martin Mull entitled \The T.V. Show.\ Home Box Office aired \On Location,\ an hour lorig special which Billy Cry~tal wrote and starred in himself. Dramatically, in ad- dition to \Soap he has ap- peared in \Enola Gay, The Atomic Bomb\ and the critically-acclaimed T.V. Movie, \Breaking Up Is Hard To Do.\ After high school Billy Crystal attended Marshall University in West Virginia, where he ' hoped to major in , \playing shortstop.\ Then, upon his return to New York, he and two friends formed an improvisational group called \3's Company,\ not to be confused with the television show of the same name. After four and a half years of the group· never really making it, J3illy Crystal decided it was \lonely at the middle\ and left the group to begin his career as a stand-up comedian. He soon became popular on the college campuses and television talk show circuit. Crystal still says, however, that he'd give it all up, in a minute, to play shortstop for the New York Yankees. Tickets are already on sale at the Student ·Activities Box Office in Carnegie Hall. Prices are $4 with a Union College ID and $7 for the off-campus conununity. Poet Comes to .Union Berkshire Ballet Czelaw Milosz, recipient of the 1980 Nobel Prize for Literature, will speak at Union College .on-October 5th. An internationally honored poet,' essayist, and novelist, Czelaw Milosz was born in Lithuania in 1911. He is now Professor Emeritus of Slavic Languages and Literatures at the University of California at Berkeley. He has recently served as Distinguished ·Visiting Professor· at the University of Michigan and at Harvard University, where he delivered the Charles Eliot Norton Lectures which were published this year as The Witness of Poetry .. Professor Milosz's works in English translation include Panbellenic Rush Information Session Monday, October 3,8:15 p.m. Lower Lounge Hale House Refreshments Will Be Served . . ~~;:7~~'1 \\~leJeeO~rft;M PORI UM 11~ -i FREE 1 I 32 oz. SODA I With Purchase of Any a-12- or 24 Cut Pizza or Any Order of $4.50 or More (Offer Good thru SeptembetJOl . FAST-HOT-FREE DELI.VERY I u . 10::~:~!~~.. I Ill! ~Broadway,Sch'd· . ~~~ l~l Phone: 374-4332 ~~~- ~~:::>.;:~:,~:,:,:,:,~:,:,::::~:,:::::::::,:,:,~:,:,:,:,:,:,~:,:,:,:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:;,:,:,:,::::::::::::~:,:,:,:,:,:,~:,:,:,:::::::,:,:,:,:,:,:,:~,:;,~:,:,~:,::::: .. ;:::::>.::J Selected Poems and Bells in Winter (poetry), The Issa Valley and The Seizure of Power (novels), The Captive Mind and Visions from San Francisco Bay (essays), as well as the autobiographical Native Realm. Czelaw Milosz will Speak at 3:30 on \The Poet and The World\ and will read from his· poetry at 8~00. Both presen- tations will be in Hale House Lower Lounge on the Union College Campus. Admission is free and the public is invited. Professor Milosz's visit is sponsored by the Minerva Cortunittee of Union College as part of their series on Politics and Art. The Berkshire Ballet will present an all Stravinsky program at the Proctor's Theatre • Schenectady on Friday, October 7, at 8 p.m. The evening marks the area premiere of the Ballet's all new \Firebird\ choreographed by Francis Patrelle. The \Firebird\ features principal dancers J ana Fugate in the role of the Firebird and Stephen Bums as the Prince of Light and promises to be the most visually EAR PIERCING Th• moat llllf!lonablo Hn/nga and tho Wld111t ••lfiCtlon arallabJ• .,. torplercfd .. ,.. ears pierced FREE of with the purchase of Ear Piercing Earrings Starting At $4.50 Plus Tax • Non-Allergenic • ~urglcal Stainless Steel • 24 Kt. Gold Overlay • Ear's Pierced by Trained Specialist TIME CENTER J!~~!E~t~~~s Downtown Schenectady, (518) 374-0183 We're old_ enough to know better. stunning piece the company has danced in years. \Petrouchka\ will place Steven Daniels in the role of the Moor, Mary McKenzie as the Ballerina and Francis ptrelle in the title role. Berkshire Ballet dancers. have also performed with the Boston Ballet, the Joffrey Ballet, American Ballet Theatre II, the Pennsylvania Ballet, as well as other esteemed companies across America. Tickets for this performance are available at all Conununity Box Office outlets or by calling I the Berkshire Ballet at 1-413- 442-1307. In addition to the evening performance, there will be a special morning concert in association with the Capital Region Center for Arts Education on Friday, October 7, as well. The time of the morning concert is to be announced and those wishing to attend may purchase tickets at the Comm- '(lnity Box Office - Proctor's Arcade branch the day of the show. For more information, call the Berkshire Ballet at the above number. Concordiensis needs writers phone 6155 Box 2577

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, September 29, /983 • IS How can you tell if Grand Union .is actually match~ng the regular prices of the lowest leadmg supermarket m your commumty? Look in the book. ' How can you tell if the thousands of regular priced items at your supermarket are really competitively priced? Look in the book. · How can you find out if so-called Specials are really special, . or just regular prices? Look tn the book. How can you find out if there's a good national braJ!d of what you need selling for less than other good natwnal brands? Look in the book. . How do you get the Price Finder book? Look in your Grand Union. Grand Union ischan · g. • on G:rand Union matehes of the lowest . .superrnarket in your • •• li 11111111 I I 'IU l IIIII } . ·'\r .• I •

..... ,. .f'l .,_ •• CONCORDIENSIS, September 29, 1983 Page/3 __ .... _______ Nuclear Weapons Freeze GREEK NEWS Campaign will be held October l. Local walks will be held ========== throughout the 23rd and 24th D e I t a ·G a m m a ' s OKTOBERFEST Friday at 4 P.M. Outside DG (behind .the (ieldhouse). Just 25 cents for Lowenbrau & munchies. On Tuesday, October 4 the pledges of Sigma Delta Tau will host their first party ''somewhere over the Rain- bow.\ Her~'s your chance to . wear your wildest colors! Party b(lgins at 11 p.m. Congressional Districts, coordinated l)y the Upper Hudson Nuclear Weapons Freeze Campaign, 7PJ Madi~n Avenue, Albany. Walkers and volunteer;s to assist in planning and coordinating the walks needed•-to become involved, call Jeanne Casatelli at 477-6618 or 463~44. SPEAKERS Union College Administrative and Engineering Systems Colloquium presents Mr. Richard Pilarski, President, Robotics; Inc. He will be Speaking and Robotics and A<thesi ves: Carving Out a Market Niche and Sticking to It on September 29, 1983-3:45 · p.m. in Room 312, Bailey Hall, Union College. · · . . \ - CLASSIFIEDS CAMPUS NEWS k~d of friendly type relation- ship and more or less just ex- change past experiences and ideas. Write; J'im Jeffers, Box ' B-38604, · Florence, Arizona 85232. PERSONALS Mar- What can I say, you're the greatest!! Thanks for always being there right when I need you.- TPL . Dear SDT Pledges: Hope you enjoy Tuesday's party as much sincere welcome to our new members!! Kelly-Don't worry-ever- ything will work out . . . somehow! Relax and have a beer. Love, Noogie Roberta & Julie & Donna: Saturday night will be awesome! me. Happy Birthday, Bobby!! Just for today I hope Lynnfield lives up to your expectations ... -Ali. The Niskayuna School System is looking for students who are interested in teaching 'after· school classes to students in grades K·5. Topics include sCience, foreign language, computers, crafts, dance, and bicycle maintenance. Interested students can contact Darlene Ward at x6172. ========== as we will enjoy Thursday! R.M.G.: I love you and miss you. Why must we work so hard?-I wauna play ... '. VOLUNTEERS Death Row prisoner, The freeze Walk, national fundraising effort of the caucasian male,· age 37, desires correspondence with either male or female college students. Wants to form some . DUTCH HOLLOW Rock n_.' Roll Pizza Pub presents: PIZZA, ETC. Open Daily 1:30 p.m.-11 :30 p.m. Tuesday, Friday, Saturday till:OO Featuring: ~~ Sandwiches Pizza Bagels Hot Pret~els renowned Chocolate Chip Cookies Chips, Popcorn, Soda, Coffee, This Week's Specials: Saturday 1:30-5 p.m. receive medium sodas for just 25¢ with any delivery Monday-Wednesday l bag free chips wtth any sandwich order ·Free Delivery on Pizza and Sandwiches ($3.75 minimum order) Watch for our Hot Sandwiches Haircut /Design· Perms Colour Facials Waxing Make-Up . Body Wraps Nail Lengthening Our designers ~lave been trained by. SASSOON of London and JINGLES, N. Y .C. . ' ' Goodi.ng· S.kin Systems 322 State Stf', S<:henectady II N ... Y, 1 ............... - \\' Love the sisters To all of Norman Birnbach's friends: He says to feel free to. call him COLLECT at (216) 775· 5674. He'd love to hear from you!!! Because The Comedy Counts . . . Welcome ·Back Court Gestures. Here's to a great year with The Court Gestures. And a Margaret-We're so proud of you! Congratulations on your initiation-the best is yet to come! Delta love, Your sisters To everyone that I promised Greg's address: Greg Hedman, 8600 S. Course Drive, Apt. 2602, Houston., TX 77099. 713-568- 3516-Make sure you write him, ' Jim . come to the 1st Cabaret of Fall term! 1st Act: KUPRA-MAL nan Lindy and Bill Unterhorn 2nd Ac't: THE SHADES Bob Hartmann and Friends Beer & Wine w/1 D's Only Tickets at Box Office in Carnegie Personal and Classified Ad Forms are available at the Ticket Booth. They must be submitted to the Concordy Off- ice by 4:30 p.m., Tuesday. Puzzle Answer .... Delta Gamma's Oktoberfest Friday at 4:00p.m. Front Yard of DG (Behind the Field House) Free Lowenbrau on Tap 25¢ I mpo·rted Bottled German Beer .25¢ Munchies

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, September 29, 1983 PUBLIC NO\FICE. · T-OTAL: STE.REO ' '- '' - ' OUANTinES LIMITED CLEA'R NCE SATURDAY lOam -Bpm 2DAYS ONLY- QUANTITIES LIMITED· SUN-DAY 10am-6_pm 2 DAY·S ' ,;.,.., . _ ONLY license #82233 Brand New Factory Fresh Merchandise* NIKKO TURNTABLE BASF PRO I~ID Belt-Drive Blank Clllette · Semi-Auto Below org.. FM WALKABOUT :~r SBQ PERSO~ RADIO $2.69 lOOWATI _\IAN SPEAKER 3 Way Box Speaker Reg. $120 NOw$49 WALKABOUT AMIFM Stereo Rldlo with lllldphlinla Reg, Price $50.00 NOW $19.00 l:c sTE:~~:o:es , ._ 800 ~~,. , __ Pti. S'!!;~N!!~AS!~~ _ t)JIIIly NOW AMPUFIER ~ . ;a Yll' . IUr.~ Home. $10.00 with 40 Watt Reg. Price sso.oo tfNI. Ut.95 ~~~:~~k P=~~'i%.~ FACTORY BUYOUTS! .,_Specia_. , Price-· _S_1_69._00_-+- __ s_PE_crA_LS_l9. ..... 00--l-_. ~ PORTA~LE STE_REO FUJITSU - TEN TOSHIBA l ~\ / ~ lndash AM/FM HIGH QUALITY w 1 Auto A eve rse Famous cassette Ca.ssette, Push Buttons Deck w/Dolby & Dolby $129.00 SHARP SPECIAU Homa Stano AM/FM RECEIVER While The_u.astl $98.w SANYO CAR STEREO INDASH AM/FM CASSETTE with AUTO MUSIC SELECT SYSTEM CLOSEOUT! ISlOO ROAD STAR CASSETTE AM /FM with DOLBY Auto Reverse Base & Trebile Reg. $270.00 NOW $149. TECHNICS TURNTABLE NEW \P-MOUNT' Belt-Drive Design. 2-year v.turanty NOW 168. CAR STEREIJ - SPEAKERS Rt Almost An'/· where· CARTRIDGE Just 15 ... DELUXE ELUPTICAL .,.... AM/FM CASSEm PLAYERS/RECORDERS TAKE YOUR MUSIC WITH YOU WHEREVER YOUR GO! ALL OPERATE ON BATTERIES OR AC POWER. ·ALL KINOS OF SHAPES & SIZES, FROM SLIM MODELS TO BIG BOXES! TREMENDOUS SELECTION STARTING .AT $49.00 UP TO PORTABLE COMPONENTS AT $169.0011 SANYO PORTABLE CASSETIE- RECORDER AC/OC Operation SlQ.OO FGr All Usas TELEPHOIES - Why fay Rent? Pushbutton Universal. Models $9.95 Star lite Rotary Wall Phones - $29;00 10-Number Memory-Units . . $39.00 700 Ft. Range Cordless Telephones $79.00 AND MUCH.._MlX'Jf MORE FOOM 61£ MarfA AMJ 1101£1 ProfMSionai .. S1ano _ JENSEN TDK II-MINUTE QJafitY - OPTONICA ·Amplmar ____ ........,__ ll watts/Channel· . Blank cassette NOW- $1.99 SANYO HOME CASSEm DECK ·stereo · Reg. _Price. $200.00 • NOW· $9l00 BACK· GAMMON FULL~ - Pla,.r/Riclrdf!l' Audio Tech- · nics PHONES . with Dolby NOW $79.00 . SIZE BOARD Sl2~oo AM·FM HEADPHONE - RADIO -Great for Jogii.:S - Price -00 STEREO HEADPHONES Startll!i From ·as.w pair PORTABLE STEREO- TO-GO Personai walkabout FM/Cassette Player with HeadP!Jones Super Special!! $39.00 CAR STEREO FM. CONVERTER Reg .•• CX) ' SAVE NOW! '$9.00 COrdleu Telephone · 700 FL Remote Range Indoor-Outdoor Use NOW $79.00 PIONEER COMPONENT 2-.Way Horne Speaker with 8\ Woofer . Reg. Price $368 Pair - NOW $49.11) EACH KENWOOD Famous Computerized · Hi-Speed Digital Stereo · Receiver - Factory Special! $21 9. -$50.00 Value • NOW LXI 3.WIJ. r 8pukers - Gnphlc Equalizer Improve Your Home Stereo NOwl59.00 · HOME SPEAKERS. lrlah low · Famous 3-way System . Noise- ~a) W/ 11q11r..., $9.00 Rag, Price $13lpr. NOW $19lfl) PAIR r--~---- 1 COUPON I I AM/FM $~8oATENNA II I First so People . • With coupon I .. _______ _ ~:Price SllOIO • rov am 'AI\ SPECIAL PURCHASE Cassettes . SALE 169.00 .EACH _ SAI.i. 99C EACH HOLIDA'tiNN 100 Nott Ter·race Schenectady~ NY • MC • APPIIIVED ~-- • SPONSORED ·BY STEREO IMPORTERS 862 Albany-Shaker Road Latham, N~w York ... lllilll flalll,_ ........... Fully~ . ... 4 ~ I l

. , I CONCORDIEN$/S, September 29, 1983 Page 15 Athlete of the Week By DREWS. BURLEY Sports Staff I Congratulations to Dutchmen linebacker Tim Howell who receives Athlete of the Week honors · for his outstandlng performances in the Dut- chmen's fir$t two outings of the year. Against Rochester in .the Dutchmen's season opener, all Howell did was make eight solo tackles, four assists, three quarterback-sacks, and a (!rive- killing interception. For . his ef- forts Howell was named to the ECAC's weekly \Honor Roll\. This past weekend in Geneva, Tim did not rest on past Jaurels as he put in an equally . com- manding performance. Howell came out of the defensive struggle with nine solo tackles, Albany State vs. Union NCAA Football live on WRUC-89.7 FM Pregame 7:15 Brought to you with underwriting by Schenectady Gaiette & \ . Wendy's Adult Education Programs also available four ·assists, one .quarterback sack, and one interception. The interception pro'Vedto set up th~ game vdnning touchdown. Howell's interception in the first quarter gave Union the ball on the Statesmen's seventeen yard line and eventually led to Union's first touchdown. Howell is a 5'9\ 205 lb. Industrial Economics major from Schenectady. The hometown boy is a three-year letter winner and has started the past two. seasons. The vital clog· in the Dutchmen's stellar defensive unit is a Theta Delta Chi brother, and a candidate for several post-season honors. Good luck to· the Dutchmen as they face the Great Danes of Albany St. Saturday night. · Tim Hotvell Volleyball Club s occer .•. On Sunday, the Union College Volleyball Club competed in the Outing Club Volleyball Tour• nament held in Saratoga State Park. A total of 53 teams par- ticipated in the event. Union's team had four wins and four losses, finishing third in their division. Playing for Union was Brian Bilsback, Mavk Sage, Dave Grant, Brian Walter, Steve Koelbel, Mi~e White, and James Schoenfeld. For the first year Union's Volleyball Club will be a member of the nine-team Capital . District Volleyball League. Their next toUI'liarnent is in Albany with league play beginning in November. For further information about the club, call Steve Koelbel at 372.0172. Continued from page 16 into overtime. Once again Army scored early and the Dutchmen were hard pressed to knot the score. . With time running out in the last OT period, Bernie Zeifang wound up from twenty five · yards out and blasted a shot that struck the crossbar and caromed straight down and then out into the field of play. The referee correctly ruled that the ball had crossed the goal line and the .game ended in a well-earned tie. Union's next two games are away against Binghamton Saturday and against Albany State on Wednesday, then they return home on Friday to play the Alwnni. under the lights. THE WORLD IS YOUR CAMPUS TWO AROU.ND-TRE-WORLD SAIUNGS EACH YEAR Depart• inJan~ry from F't. Lauderdale, DGr:!dap with ~!tops In South America, A.frica, 'South .bia and the Orient. Departs Seattle In September with ttops ill the Orient, Scrutli Asia, the Middle East anct the Mediterr;~nc:an. Sponsored by the University of Piusburgh, Semester at Sea offers s£Udems a superior full semester academic program and supponing field experiences. This one semester, full credit experience is available to qualified students from all accredited colleges and universities. More than 60 voyage related universitr courses. Faculrr drawn fwm the Universil:\· of Pittsburgh and mher leading universities, augmenred br visiting area experts. · Optional tours, inr.uding special tours into the People's Republi~ of China, available. Semester at Sea a< mits students without regard to color, race or creed .. The s.s. Uilitl(!f'S(! is fully air-conditioned, 18,000 tons, registered in Liberia and built in America. For •. free color brochare, write: Semester at Sea, UCIS, UaJverdty of Ntt•'&argh, Forbe• Quadraaafe, Pitt•bargh, PA 1Sl60, or caU toUfree (800) 8S4:-0l,S (ia Pena•ylqftia (411) 6l4:-6Gll). Representative will be in Carnegie Hall, 10-3 p.m., Oct. 6, slide show. 014 H U 4:30p.m. ••• on women's soccer Sports T~lk With SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff .A number of Dutchman athletic teams have enjoyed banner campaigns over the last few years. Football has become a force to be reckoned with while basketball has regained the form that made them a power in the early to mid seventies. Women's tennis and lacrosse have also risen to the occasion over the last few years to compile impressive winning records. With all this athletic success, one could h<we easily overlooked the fact that riot all the varsity teams at Union faired well these past few years. Luckily for Women's soccer, the athletic department did not overlook the dismal record recorded by the team in its short history as a Dutchwoman sport. A short year ago. Women's soccer was entering its first year as a varsity sport. In their two previous years of existence as a club sport, the lady booters .failed to chalk up a single win. Many thought since the sport had achieved varsity status that the scenario might change in '82. The team's opening prac- tice saw twenty-five gals uited up for action. Quite impressive numbers for a first year varsity team. But good teams are built from strong coaching and strong coaching was not to be found in '82 .. The .staff was made up of a woman's softball coach and a senior male who played JV soccer in his three previous years at school. The squad went on to play a ten game schedule that left the women with a final record that lacked a single win or tie. After the season it looked as the school would maintain ...... the status quo and let the young program continue. to dive. They did anything but that. It was announced in the spring that the well respected Martha \Marty\ Morrison had been named as the school's new women's varsity soccer coach. The athletic departments biggest advocate for women's sports was the one person that the school believed could be trusted with the task of building a program from all but scratch. Morrison has always proved to be a winner in every sense, and has guided both the women's lacrosse and field hockey teams to new heights since her arrival at Union in 1977. Marty looked forward to the challenge all sununer as she prepared the blue print that would act as a guide for the tough task of building the foundation for a solid program. Morrison made her presence known from day one of pre- season with well planned workouts for her team. Marty admitted that the biggest goal of her rookie year at the helm would be to remove the monkey from her teams back and instill in her. girls the confidence that they could go out to both compete and win. It didn't take the squad long to bounce that monkey as they battled a tough _ . squad . from Oneonta in their opener and finished the af• ternoon with the first win in the young sports history. Hats off to both the athletic department and more specifically Marty Morrison for showing us all that Union does care about excellence, all the way down the line. Cb-captain John Tierney and the rest of the Union College Rugby · Football Club open their fall season Sat. at 1:00 vs. Hamilton on Library Field. New York University Visits Your Campus to Answer Questions on the M.B.A. Program Located in the heart of the Wall Street area, New York University's Graduate School of Business Administration has trained students for executive positions for overoO years. A recent survey by Standard & Poor's ranked New York University number 2 nationwide as the source of graduate education for chief executives in major {::ompanies. On Thursday, October 6, an admissions officer will be on campus to discuss the quality and flexibility of the graduate business program. Check with the Office of Career Develop- ment for sign-up schedule and further information. New York University is an affirmative action/equal opportunity institution.

·' ' Page 16 ,CONCORDih.'NSIS. .$_eP,tem/Jer 29, 1983 s ' . ... in defensive battle, 23-0 Dutchmen Blank Statesme·n By LGUGEORGE SpoTts Staff After toppi11g Hobart with a1 23..0 shutout, the Union College gridders gainEd a first place tie in the New York State Coaches' Poll. Upion (2,-0). is tied with Buffalo, who .also received 59 points in the voting. Ithaca was third with 39 points and St. Lawrence, who was ranked number one last week, dropped to fourth with a loss to Kings Point. The Dutchmen had a difficult ·time overcoming an upset minded Hob..art squad. The Statesmen carne into the game with a one word game plan; Blitz. Hobart stalJ:ed the high- powered Un.i'on offense by rushing an)\Vllere from eight to ten players on each down. Coach Bagnoli gave praise ·to the Hobart sq11ad and coaches which kept the Dutchmen · confused and ultimately off · balance the entire Hobart held the Garnet to 133 threat that put the Union yard The Garnet terense again rose to the oc- asion; defensiveendBrian Cox :':·> ' ~\4 ' ~ ~. <:=:> Union defensive end Brian Cox has had this thought in his head all week. The DLJtchmer:~look to avenge last year's only loss to Albany St. Sat. nite. Soccer Stands at 1-1-1 ByP.S. andS.G. Sport~rStaff With three games gone in the young season, the men's Var- sity Soccer te~m finds itself right on course. Following a close road loss to Cortland State, 2-1, and a hard-earned tie at home against Army, 3-3, Union finds itself at 1-1-1 for the season. The toughest part of the schedule lies in the first four games, with a home game against pesky Hamilton yesterday finishing out the tough early stretch. Having escaped this difficult start respectably wa.s .important to the team's outl()()k. It also gave · the freshmen .a chance to mature and learn the system. The week staned off with the Dutchmen dropping a gam:e to Cortland State. Union outshot and out-hustl-ed the Red Dragons, but collld only muster one goal. Early in the first bald senior Dave Sheridan broke a long scoreless slump with a blast from twellty yards out. However, Union~s momentum quickly dropped as Cortland managed to mttster a freak tally. Fresl:unan G·reg Clavelouxmade .all outstanding: tackle, but the ball managed to deflect toward Mike Harris' net. The ball had a -very awkward· spin to it that ca 11sed Harris to misjudge its trajectory. Cortland State has· the reputation of being an op- '. · portunistic team. They showed just that late in the second half on a restart that caught the Dutchmen off guard. Cortland's fast break attack capitalized and this proved to be the game winner. The entire Union squad was in disbelief that they had lost the game, one they felt they should have won. Saturday's game had an auspicious start with Army scoring in the first four minutes of play. The Dutchmen then dominated play but could not score in the rest of the first half. Army again caught Union off guard with a goal in the opening five minutes of the second half and the outlook was indeed bleak. To add to Union's problem, Claveloux was injured early in the second half. However, the team kept digging and shortly thereafter was awarded with a .penalty kick after Bernie Zeifang was tripped up in the penalty area. Jimmy Monks easily deposited the free kick and Union was suddenly very much in the game. Once again the Dut- chmen booters pressed the'play in an effort for the equaliZer, but the rugged Army defense wolildn't budge. Finally, with less than three minutes left, Zeifang slid a perfect pass to fellow co-captain Sheridan who slashed through a crowd to bang home the tying goal. With no further scoring, the game went Continued on page 15 dropped Hobart's J.C. Stein for a twelve yard loss on a reverse .. This loss put the Statesmen's kicker, Mike Deehan, far enough away froin the goalpost for a miss and preserve a shutout .for the Dutchmen. Union controlled the rest of the game and scored on two one yard runs by ha'lfback Johnnie Johnson and ·fullback George Saturday night the Dutchmen host the Great Danes of Albany, who served the their only loss in the last . ve games. This game, which has become a top grudge match, will be played under the lights on the Astroturf field. Th~ Danes ( 1 ~2') would like nothing better than to tum around their dismal start with a victory over the multi-fc.iceted Dutchemn. Two years ago Union upset Albany St. and destroyed their chance of a bowl bid. Last season the Danes turned the tables and re<!orded the only blemish on the Union record. This is a very emotional game for both teams and a viclory for either team will boost them for their upcoming conteSts. · · Score b~ pen~d\ Union 9 0 0 1•-2l Hobart o o 0 0- 0 U - Kraft, 3, D~ss from Stewart !k1ck failed) u - Sticka, 38. field goal U- Johnson, I, rvn (Kellaher, pao:; from Siewert) U - Capozzi, 1. nm (kick failed) STATISTICS un,on Hobart F >rst OOWft$ 12 I ll u5h·as-yards 52·133 '311· -~ Passmg varas .60 61 Passes JJ.JQ.Q 6·20~ Returns yard I I II 47 Punts a ;erage 7·32 0 li).:U J Fumbles •ost 3 0 Penallies·yards 4·45 10·100 ECAC Upstate :New Yol'k coaches Poll l. Union Buffalo 3. Ithaca 4. St. Lawrence 5. BuWtlo St. QB Dan Stewart will lead the 2·0 gridders into battle with · Albany St. Sat. Under the lights. Wonren's Bas.etball There will be an organiiational meeting for any women interested in playing varsity basketball this season on Sept. 30th at 3 p.m. in the Block U room of Alumni Gym. Dutctlwomen vol.l.eyball captain Jodi B·reriner in action vs. Skid· more. Lynne Barta's young squad trrave·ls to Sienna Tues. for their n.ext game.. r SPO,RTSHAPPENINGS Sept. 29 - Oct. 6 V. Football Oct. 1 Albany St. 7:30 J.V. Football Oct. 3 at Middlebury 3:00 Men's Soccer Oct. l pt Bingha m.ton 2:00 Oct. 5 at Albany St. 3:30 J.V. Soccer Oct. 1 a.t Binghamton 12':30 Oct. 3 Hartwick 7:00 Oct. 6 at Siena 3:30 X- Country Oct. l at Middlebury 1:00 Volleyball Oct. 4 at Siena 7:00 Oct. 6 Williams 6:00 Field Hockey Oct. 1 Wells 1:00 Oct. 3 Middlebury 3t00 Oct. 5 Oneonta 3:30 w. Soccer Oct. 4 at R P·l 3:30 Oct. 6 at Siena 4:00 Tennis Oct. 3Middlebury 3:30 Oct. 5 Oneonta 3:30 O.ct. 6 at RPI 3:30 Rugby Oct. 1 Hamilton 1:00 Tennis Optimistic By JILL BRADLEY Sports Staff The Union College women's. '.tennis team got off to a slow start Friday against their first opponent Skidmore. The team has ta be commended for a valiant effort, and it looks as though it's going to be a great season. Union' player is s who started a decisive Skidmore's Returning senior Rita sophomore· judging they are · competition. experienced has a ••• Rugby opens Sat. whose consistent shots look very promising, and sophomore Robin Leichman, whose steady strokes look to be unbeatable. The doubles team of Lorna Rushworth and veteran junior Linda Esposito, though defeated by their Skidlnor.e rivals work well together, and should prove to be a winning pair . in future matches. New coach Anna Means has done an admirable job getting the Dutchwomen prepared for a. competitive and aggressive season. Check sports hap- penings . for match play and support the Dutchwomen. Union's No. Julie Miller singles player Serum Time By PHIL WESTERMAN Sports Staff . The · Union College Rugby Football Club has been prac- ticing hard since the first day o£ school and the team looks en- thusiastically toward the up- coming season. Co-captions for this year, John Tierney and Steve Patterson are trying to prepare the thirty plus players for their home opener on Satw:day against tbe Hamilton Continentals. The team is coming off an impressive year where they· posted a . 10-3-1 mark. Due to the team's depth , and the return of outstanding veter8J)s from last year, it looks as if they'll better last year's record. The Dutchmen will face Albany Old Green on Saturday of Homecoming Weekend at 1 p.m. on Library field. The rugby club believes that Albany Old Green will be their toughest adversary of the year, so the game looks to be .an ex- citing one. . other t-ough op- ponents this fall will be Amherst and Siena. Students, family, and friends are always welcome 'to watch the ruggers play and are well appreciated. A last comment from co,.captains Tierney and Patterson adds, \rugby is a game that is easily, picked up and it is a lot of fun.\ New player!il are welcome, If interested, meet at the flagpole In front of West College any weekday at 4 p.m. 0 ..... 0 .c a. ci ~ 0:: - - Uni Sta 1Du1 A B~ Wi cent offic who wheJ acco ofR1 \!1 time need frien bulle Adm in re offic that have Th ·onth at 1 looki turn left, Pres tele) der~ . · pany or H there Tvl ·duty wee~ be gil .culm one requ 6 p.n Wheil RA's equi1 whic tivit3 restr eng a their Me the I

