~ ct: > .c 0 +- 0 J::: a. Assistant Dean of students ~obert Massa Burroughs to b_e. replsce~ , . . York November 3, 1983 Union Student -Arrested By DOUG LANDON Editor-In .Chief Last Friday night J1 Union student was arrested by Schenectady Police, .on campus, on felony charges of selling a controlled substance. Junior Carl Craane, a brother of .Sigma Phi,. faces two counts of third degree and one count of second degree criminal sale of a controlled substance, the .Schenectady Gazette reported Tuesday. He made three cocaine sales to an undercover police officer in October at· the Sigma Phi house, city police said~ Currently free on $10,000 bail, Craane appeared before the Schenectady . Police Court Friday and MQnday t-o answel' the drug charges, and has been placed on the court's felony calendar for further proceedings. Schenectady Police Court Judge Clifford T. Harrigan heard the case. Crane allegedly sold 19 grams of cocaine (about two-thirds of an OWlce) to the undercover officer shortly after 7:30 p.m. Friday, for a ,price of $1,200. Uniformed officers arrested Craane at Sigma Phi· after the incident took place. Commanding officer of the vice squad Sargeant Dennis Gregoire said an investigation had· taken place for several weeks before the police moved in, the Gazette reported. He said his squad was successful in postponing the large .purchase twice before proceeding with the arrest. \Any further postponement, we felt, might jeopardize the thing · so we decided to go with it at this time,'~ Gregoire noted. There was also a concern to \salvage\ the money used for Friday's operation. have serious consequences for the student or students in· volved,\ but added that the administration will not take any action untU the Schenectady Police Department has com- pleted its investigation into the case. Dean of Students Joseph Mammola said, \The matter is entirely under review at this time.\ The charges against Craane are serious, according to Gregoire. He added that if Craane, who is from Venezuela, is convicted of the charges, he could face deportation. Dean Massa explains that Craane is a citizen of Venezuela,. where he was born, but his parents are of Dutch descent. Craane has lived in the United States for some time, Massa said, presently in New York City. Computer \Bytes the Dust\ The same undercover officer allegedly bought one gram of cocaine for $100 at each of two previous meetings at the Sigma Phi house. These incidents took place on Oct. 19 at 8:15 p.m. and Oct. 11 at 12:40 p.m. Gregoire could not recall any similar arrests on Union's campus -in recent years. \(Investigator) Jim Maloney has been on the squad 17 years and it never happened in that 17- year period,\ he said. By JUDIE STEINHARDT 8taff , In 1982, a five-year plan was drawn up to implement a massive overhaUl of Union's computer system. The first step of the plan was the ptirclfase of. the VAX computer last year. The second step, which will be completed later this year, is the purchase of a computer, or· series of computers, to replace ·the Burroughs computer and do even more. In ·order t() complete this project, a comniittee has been appointed for the sole purpose of investigatmg what kind of computer is needed to replace some of the imprl;lvements outlined in tbe five~year plan. One of the main con- siderations is the · inachine's ability to fit into a computer · network which would run throughout the campus. The present system consists of three main c<>mputers which do each the Burroughs. The conunittee, called the Committee on the ~ General Curricular Computer, ~ has six members and two ex- ,_ officio members from several ~ disciplines. The regular g · members are: Professors .., Judith Ginsberg of the modem 1l' languages department~ William .E Aubrey of mechanical _g engineering, Douglas Wong of c. computer ~cience, Douglas Professor of Economics Douglas Klein of econollii.cs, John Boyer Kl.ein, of ~iology, ~d Mark Wf:SOSki, oftheir work separately and are assiStant diredor coordinator presently ·incapable of com- for academic services. The muni'cating with each other. members W:ith()ut v<!tin:g rights, · One of the main objectives of but assummg .adruory roles the five-year plan is to create a are: Wayne Holt, the director of system which would attach computer services, and- Vice every computer and terminal President Thomas D'Andrea on_ campus to every other with his assistant, Dwight Wolf, computer and terminal. acting in his behalf. . Professor Klein said, \We The reason this committee don't want to pick a computer in was fonned is mainly because a vacuwn. It is important that it the Burroughs computer is very fits in with the rest of the much outdated and needs to be system.)' The new machine has replaced. According to to have this ability to be ·Professor Wong, the Burroughs adaptable to a future network of \does not have tile capacity we interconnecting computers. need, it does not have the soft· Both Professors Wong and ware.\ He also says that t~e Klein emphasized the need for a replacement must have certam machine ox· set of machines capabilities. be:yond those of the which can satisfy the academic Burroughs m order to advance community as. a whole, not just .. computer science and engineering. There is a demand for more g~neral computing needs, sucn as word processing. The replacement computer obviously must continue the work of the Burroughs, which specializes. in the social sciences, including Statistical Programming for the Social Sciences (SPSS). The com· mittee wants to get a computer capable ofelectronic mailing, in which a person on any terminal can send a message to someone on any other terminal. The committee will be discussing the idea of a bulletin board on the computer. This would mean that at the press of a button, !)ne could get all the .information on recent news and future meetings to be held. It would contain all the in- formation the regular bulletin l:>oards have plus the notices students get in their mailboxes, eliminating some of the clutter, and saving a lot of time and effort. Klein envisions the possibility of constantly running bulletin boards, like the ones on certain local cable t.v. net- works, being placed in Carnegie or some of the dorms. Another very important goal is the capability to handle microcomputers. A microcomputer, or a workstation, is a terminal and computer all in one. The w.orkstatimi is very ad- vantageous because it is a small machine which can do most of its work within itself, relieving some of the workload placed on the main computers. The school is beginning to purchase microcomputers and certain faculty and students already own their own machines. The .problem is that many of these workstations cannot com- municate with the main com .. Continued on page 4 . Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa bas confirmed that. college offici~ areaware of Craane's arrest. Massa said, \We view this as a very serious situation and one that could No explanation of how the undercover officer met Craane was offered, but Gregoire noted that this type of contact is made in the routine course of the squad's work. The investigation is con- t~uing~ Singer Eddie Grant during last week's concert in Alumni Gym Ul 10 .21 .r::. u Q) c: .r::. a. ltl .0 > .0 ~ 0 .r::. 0. DUTCHMEN RANKED FOURTH IN NATION! page 16

CONCORDIENS/S, November 3, 1983 Clark Discusses Liberty w ,.. _Q 0 .... 0 .c Q. ·\\ --~ ~' ·\' < ~ By GA YLE.ROSENFELD News Editor On October 25, Ramsey Clark discussed \Prisoners' Rights'' at. 3 p~m. in SS112 and \Civil Libertie~:~ vs. tbe Reagan Administration\ at 8 .p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The lectures were sponsored by the political science and sociology depart- ments and the Minerva fund. Professor .of Sociology Martha Huggins Clark was assistant attorney general from 1961-65, deputy attorney general .from 1965-66, acting attorney general from. 1966~7 and attorney general from 1967\69 in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations. Since SloanS esAgain By ERICA ROSENBLOOM Staff This spring term, a quan- titative preceptorial will be offered to students. Because the course is still very much in the planning stages, the actual content of the course is not yet formalized. Financed by the Sloan FoWldation, the purpose of the course is to increase technical and quantitative literacy among students. A committee composed of four Union professors, E. Dwight Phaup (Economics) Terry Weiner (Sociology), Andy Burkee (Mechanical Engineering), and John Boyer (Biology), is responsible for deciding the structure of the \Sloan Quan- titative course.\ Professor Phaup explained that because a large percentage of Union students take either the calculus sequences of Math 20 or 21,. there is no need for a ''traditional'' mathematics course. \We hope that this course will introduce some quantitative techniques, outside what one might learn in a regular mathematics sequence. These skills should be useful in decision-making situations and in being able to assess quan- titative information related to public policy disputes,\ Phaup stated. Unlike other preceptorial courses, the ''Sloan Quan- titative course,\ will introduce students to analytical techniques . relative to making objective decisions and make students aware of ways that .. data can be used and misused in developing positions. ''Too frequently people in our society will take a position on a public policy or problem based on a visceral or personal attitude, rather than on data or objectivP- material and careful analysis,\ Phaup stressed. The precep- torial will eqUip students with ways to look at relevant in- formation and analyze it Doubleheader WRUC 89.7 FM Saturday: Football at Middlebury at 1:15 Hockey vs. North Adams at 7:15 Don't Forget SPORTSLINE Wednesday 11-midnite Call and Win! correctly. Possible analytical tools that may be taught are: questions of probability, descriptive statistics, decision~ making under Wlcertain con- · ditions, cost-benefit analysis, present value analysis, .etc. Phaup remarked, \We want. to teach students to think critically using quantitative tools. Our primary goal is to inculcate in students an ap- preciation for the appropriate use of quantitative arguments and to help them recognize when the arguments are misused.\ He hopes the course ''will fill a possible void, that is perhaps a need by all students.\ By mid-winter the course should come into form. Presdently ·the major opgtacle is deciding on the best case studies to serve as cDntext for analytical devices. The com- mittee is looking for material that will both illustrate , technical and analytical tools and be· interesting to students. Case .studies under con .. sideration are: use and misuse of data concerning acid rain, the effects or tracking in .the ed1,1cational system, nuclear power, and the process by which the FDA approves new . products for the market. As of now, the collrse will be taught in a te.am by the four committee members. Each professor will deal with his area of expertise. \We're not requiring anyone to take the course in the spring. It will possibly be an E credit. We're hoping students will not only show an interest, but. will provide the committee with feedback to help us evaluate and decide the future of the course,\ Phaup emphasized. If the course is deemed Sl,lCcessful by all constituents (faculty, students, etc.) it may become a requirement for freshmen. Phaup stressed that student input and ideas are essential if the program is to be responsive to student interest and a beneficial experience. .Classes at Sea ByJANBARAN Staff Williams College, in con- nection with the Mystic Seaport Pmgram, offers Union students and other students from seventeen eastern schools the ch~ce to spend a term learning about the sea. The purpose· of this program is to ''focus on our relationship with the sea in the past, the present and the future.\ Under this program, students. take four courses at the museum including history, literature, oceanography or marine ecology, and a seminar ·in marine policy. In addition to the regular courses, students choose a maritime skill such as navigation or boat handling to learn under professional guidance. During the tenn, students will also spend twelve days carrying out a marine research project. These two projects give the students practical experience with the sea. The program, which is . recognized for credit at Union, will have two sessions next year (1984-1985 )-a fall semester (September 3 to December 18, 1984) and a spring semester (February 4 to ~ay 21, 1985). Recent students from Union who have participated in this program include Adam Brodsky ('83), Ruth Ewing ('84), and present participant Scott Collins ('85) . An informational session about this Seaoort ·program will be held in the ~d1eari' s conference room in the Science and Engineering Building. The session w~U be led by Ms. Funk, admissions assistant for the program. She will discuss the program. answer questions, and show slides of activities at My,stic. Any interested Union students are urged to attend this meeting and may procure brochures and applications at any time from Dean William Daniels in Science;.Engineering S-100. 1eavmg government service in 1969, Clark has practiced law in .New York City and lectured on var:ious legal, political and foreign policy issues. His clients tend to be prison inmates, American Indians and others associated with unpopular pc>liticalcaoses. His book Crfuie in America deals with prisoners' rignts. Clark's two lectures were stylistically different from most speeches .given at Union. \He asks completely different , ·questions,\ .said Professor Martha Huggins of the sodolo,gy department. •·•He basically rephrased questions, turned them around, ·turn~ · them on us,\ continued Huggins. Clark takes his audiences by surprise by asking them questions for which they are not ready. His ''Will Rogers style'' of folksy delivery establishes a certain imbalance on the part of his Ust.eners. Beyond all of this, Clark's topics tend to be controversial. With all this in mind, the listener could ~intaina better grasp of Clark's· views on a subject. Both •·•Prisoners' Rights\ and ''Civll Liberties vs. the Reagan Administration'' may not ap- pear to be related topics yet Clark expressed -similar views in these two discussions. First off !'Prisoners' Rights\ was Clark's topic. However, began Clark, ''Prisoners' rights is a I;!Ontradietion ·in terms.\ Prisoners are deprived of their fundamental right 6f liberty by being in prison; therefore, how can one discuss prisoners' rights? \Basically continued Clark, \you have to.:face that fact that once in prison your bli.sic .right has been taken away.\ Without that right, other rights are practically · meaningless. \What we really have to do is get rid of prisons,'' said Clark.· Prison reform is a false concept for prisons breed future crime. \Segregation . is a losing proposition,'' added Clark, for it only perpetuates crime. Even if society builds more prisons, the problem won't be solved for \we will fill our prisons before they're built,'' added Clark. The United States has · the second largest quantity of people in prison next to South Africa and followed by the USSR. Clark views this as a hopeless situation if it is allowed to continue. \If we release people from our prisons we will have a safer society,'' said Clark. Since prisons breed crime, diversion programs should be used. These pr{)grams would have lawbreakers .pay back society . for tbeir crime through societal service. This process may just possibly redeem \the criminal without tossing him into the proverbial \lion's den'' while also providing society with a useful service. Although Qark noted, \I am in favor of prosecuting, butl am in favor of diversion,\ he added that five years should be the maximum prison sentence if one is to exist. ''What we're doing 1n jail is controlling peDple,\ said Clark. If society helps those citizens who are forced into cornmiting crtmes because of financial strife then the number of crimes enacted might be decreased, It's something worth consideration. Clark's second lecture, \Civil Liberties vs. the Reagan Administration,\ also dealt with rights.· \Life like freedom,\ said Clark, \is choice and without economic independence you have no choice.'' In this lecture, Clark came down hard on the materialism of today's society. From this idea stemmed a theme of war's iiltolerance .of freedom. · . ''Through all history,' war has been the Jjrinciple enemy of freedom,\ said Clark. ''Violence is the ultimate human degradation.\ Although · Clark adds, ''To sit around and criticize Ronald Reagan as if he invented the idea of despotism is to miss the whole point,'' he is far from a Reagan adherent. \Absence of force is perhaps the best definition we have of liberty,\ added Clark. Therefore, in a nuclear world, liberty is going to be diminished. Although Clark proved critical of today!s society in regards·to. freedom, he did say · that .. ,I don't believe for a moment that we cannot preserve individual freedom here\ in America. Even though \we chew up poor people in criminal courts without regard' to morals or facts, we're still the luckiest people that ever lived.'' Americans have the \freedom to thillk, tD know and to judge.\ In a world _where technology rules and foreign policies often circumvent human rights \each of us;\ said Clark, \can try to find a way to expand our knowledge and our imagination . . . to make a difference. We -can afford it.\ 1983-84 WINTER TERM PREREGISTRATION NOTICE Preregistration materials for winter term 1983-84 will be available at the Office of the Registrar, Silliman Hall, beginning Monday, November 7th. Required permission cards for designated courses will be .available Wednesday, November 9th. Stude.nts are urged Jo promptly secure their copy of these materials. students who do not plan to return to Union for the winter term, except .for graduating seniors, must immediate!'(. give notice of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students, Carnegie Hall. Potential December graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of fall term, if they have not already done so. Students should confer with Faculty Adv.isors during the week of November 7th-11th. Some departments may an- nounce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such announcements. Course request forms are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, November 14th. A TEN DOLLAR ($10.00) LATE 'FEE WI·LL BE ASSESSED THEREAFTER! Please be on time, even though your schedule may be in- complete! Is it true you can buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. Government. Get the Facts Todayl Call. (312) 742-1142 Ext. 4269 ' st ' U: th as SE D1 et su Pt G: he b,; pr wi as dE di: la: .PCI pr ve W1 w~ br as 1 t nev con con Ma Gol rna; thel sc11 Mal inv• ans lool knc Sch clut and SUCI Cl 2 Tl pro1 mid fror: are tern dep• and Mar grot and som fron TI get com therJ COllE and com toer and ·He< Sqt Mic Vi~ Pa1 Srn:i Roc B'ra La't Sin . Sil 'Gee Col · Da11 Bog Tot

CONCORDIENSIS, November 3, 1983 DU Violates Dean Of Students'-Rufing By DOUG LANDON to be admitted. This ''would Edltor·ln..Chief have made a nice party of 100 to 120people,'' Massa commented• Last month the dean of \but there were close to 300 students suspended Delta people there.'' · ·· ' Upsilon's party privileges for Massa's judgment is based on the remainder of the fall term his own witnessing of the as a result of an incident on situation, as he made an ap- September 25 involving DU, pearance at the DU house at Delta Chi and Sigma Chi. The approximately 12:20 a.m. that other fraternities also received night. He 'Said that because of suspension of similar the crowd, it took him five privileges: minutes to move from the This. .penalty prohibits. the dining room to the bar area. Greek organizations from At ·about 12:30; Massa told hosting any sort of 'Open party, McMorrow to have the party but does permit them to hold closed down. by 2 a.m., and then private; invitation only parties Went to the security office to with alimitednwnberof guests. request officers to help DU According .to Robert Massa, break up the function. assistant dean of students, DU The assistant dean contends the original probation was unfab~ co11sidering their fraternity's involvement in last month',s happenings, but he explains that \whether or not probation was justified is not the paint; .they didn't appeal.\ The number of people in at- tendance was the only aspect of the party to whic;h Massa ob- jected, though. He said the guests. and brothers were \orderly not unruly, and having a good time,\ and tbe house and grounds were cleaned u.p afterward. Regarding the extended probation, Mi!ssa commented ''I hope the DU brothers take this seriously. \ Delta Upsilon violated' probation ruling. demonstrated a ''flagrant that the party \certainly was in disregard for college policy\ violation of the terms of the last Saturday night, when a probation.\ DU ''failed to party was held at their house. comply with college officials,\ Massa said he informed DU which is, in turn, a violation of president Chris ·McMorrow.· the student conduct code. verbally on Thursday and fu Deans Mammola and Massa writing on Friday that the party · · have decided to extend DU's was to be restricted. All DU party probation to ,the end of brothers and current pledges, winter term. Massa pointed out as well as one ,guest each. were that some brothers of DU felt I Forum Meets Again By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER tivity. and finance committee Associate F'eatures Editor As. is usual procedure, the member, tried to relieve tension The Student Ferum met this past Monday, Oct. 31. This week's meeting was charac- terized by a level of high ac- Union Aids Girls' Club ByLYNNBANO Staff Union students are opening new opportunities for low in- come girls by teaching them computer skills. Junior Heather Martin and senior Leisel Golden, both computer science majors, have been vohmteering their time this past year at the Schenectady Girls' Club. Martin and Golden became involved ·in the program by answering an advertisement looking for computer knowled·gable helpe;rs. Schenectady has the first girls' club to offer such a program and so far it has been very successful. Classes are taught in Basic on 2 TRS 80 color computers. The program involves 80 low and ml:ddle income girls ranging from the ages of 9 to 14. Girls are divided into beginner, in- termediate and advanced levels depending upon their ability · and experience. Presently Martin teaches the advanced group, but has taught each level and says she· enjoys seeing some of the same girls progress from one stage to the next. The volunteers' job is to first get ·the girls interested in computers and then encourage them to continue. By seeing college women such as Martin and Golden working with computers. these girls are able to envision career opportunities· and possibilities for bettering themselves. Martin feels that \It is a worthwhile eXJ)erience for anyone to get involved in~ because ot the positive in- fluence you have on these girls.\ Volunteers are well super- vised and given guidelines on how to teach a group. Director of the comouter denartment at are friendly, the work is not hard and the 118tisfaction is great.\ Computers are only one example of many programs offered at the girlS' club, Others include sewing, .gymnastics, crafts, sports teams and more. Activities begin after school around 3:00 and meet once a Senior Heather Martin assists Celeste Richards, age 11, in a computer class at the Schenectady Girls Club. the gii.-Is' club, Annet Brooks, · helps to develop the lesson plans, gives 9ut bo~ks and ~ids · the volunteers m various aspects. Martin finds that through such assistance, her job 'becomeS' easier. \The people week for an hour. Anyone who is interested in helping in any of these areas or working with youth in general is urged to stop by the girls' club on Albany Avenue or call at 374-9800. . ,_ . Student Forum Voting Record Meeting Oct. 31~ 1983 Member Const UCRA t]CRA $ Cone. Sub. Skell Brd. ISC Conf ·Hecksc~er ¥ Y' - n y Y' Squires y Y' Abs. Abs. Abs. Midonneck y Y' y y Abstain Vigliemo y y .. y y n Parsons y Y' y y n Smith y y N.o y Abstain ·Rodgers Abs. Abs. Abs; Abs. Abs. Brandt y y y y y Laux Abs. y n y y Simone Abs. Abs. Abs. Abs. Abs. ·Siler, y y n y y .George- y y n y y Colesman y y n y No ·Danziger y y y y y Bogen ~bs. Abs. Abs. Abs. Abs. Totals 12 Yes 12 Yes 5-1',6-N 12 Yes 6Y.3N,2 Abs committee reports were by explaining that the paper presented first. First to be subscriptions were not being heard from was Jared Squires, cut, just that the finance Chainnan of the Committee on committee wanted to have the Committees (COC). Several money to pay for the sub- club constitutions are in the scriptions come from process of being reviewed. Of elsewhere. A motion was then those being reviewed, the proposed in opposition to the constitution of the Union finance committee's action. College Rowing Association This vote did not pass (5Y-6N). (YCRA) was submitted by the In light of the vote, Win Thtirlow COC for approval by the forwn. was selected as the forum A vote was called,. with a member who would explain the unanimous approval of the situation to the President's forum. In addition, the deadline office in the hQpe that it could for reception of applications for fund the subscriptions. A report ISC representative and Plan- .of the meeting will be presented ning and Pdorities Committee next week. has been extended. Because of the absence of Jaques Simone and Barabara Rodgers, the St11dent Affairs Council (SAC) report, was given by Sophomore Representative Chris Siler. The major point of discussion was the issue of the food service. Food Service Director Jan Gray did appear at the meeting and provided an explanation for the recent changes in Illeal card policy. Accordingto Gray, the 10 and 14 meal plans were altered back to the way they originally were when Gray first arrived at Union. She feels the original system is more efficient, and is in the best interest of the students. Jamie Danziger of the Academic Affairs Council (AAC) presented his report next. The AAC has recently approved two new courses to be included in the curriculum; an upper level mechanical engineering course, and a 19th Century history course. Professor Craig spoke about ABED and the Union's recent re-accreditatio.n of its engineering departments. ABED is a body of industrial and college engineers which accreditate college programs. The accreditationlasts for three years. As for changes in the carding system, they will be adopted after this term's preregistration. Ben Heckscb.er, •vice president for 1 finance presented his committee's report. The first issue of discussion was the allotment of funds · for the crew club (UCRA). A total eltpendit11re of $3,035.00 was requested, with the finance committee ap- proval. The forum then voted on the allotment of the funds. The vote passed, again unanimously. At its meeting, the finance conunittee decided to eliminate the $282.00 from the Con- cordlensls budget which paid for the sub$criptioll costs to the Trustees. This topi<: became one of heated discussion. Tim Smith, senior representative \ Heckscher then went on to discuss other issues covered by the finance committee. Some of these include: Action against clubs who overspend their budgets, assignment of a finance representative to the UCRA (Dave Weick was chosen) and the departmental covering of the funds of academic clubs. The meeting with Dean Manunola, and Calvin Schmidt, the subject of the skellar board was discussed. A report of the meeting was given by Ben Heckscher. Currently food service pays the skellar board 5 percent· of. its collected profits from the skellar business (this money is a form of rental payment for use of the facilities). A total of ap- proximately $54,000 (of this collected money) is now residing in a bank account. However, due to the lack of ar. active skellar board, this money cannot be accessed, and will not be until reactivation occurs. A motion was then proposed in which the forum reactivates the · skellar board. A vote was taken with the motion passing. Applications for the two student positions on the skellar board will soon be distributed, with eventual approval by both the COC and forum. At the meeting last week, a proposal• was made in which the fonim members would ~ttend and speak at donnitory floor meetings witll the intent of educating the students (primarily freshmen) as to the overall nature of the forum. A general format was then proposed in which the following were to be covered: Definition and description of the student govennnent, its purpose, its compositions (positions and roles), student coinmi.ttees, and a discussion of the possible increase in the student ac- . Uvities fee. Assignment of dorms were made after the conclusion of the meettrm.

c: ~ '- 0 3:: 0 \0 > 10 0 > ..0 0 - 0 .t::. Q. Page4 CONCORDIENSIS. November 3, 1983 Chairman of the Sociology Department Terry Weiner Sociology Makes Changes ByLORIOL~ENSTEIN Staff The Sociology Department recently released a pamphlet describing curriculum re- organization. The pamphlet itself is basically an outline of the various ways to organiZe a major in sociology so that it confonns to vocational and career interests. Chainnan of the Sociology Department, Terry Weiner, explained that the idea behind the pamphlet is to \show how a discipline in Uberal Arts can provide a broad education and still also provide an integrated education which puts you in a competitive position for career paths.\ this way, st.udents interested in anthropology can pursue it ·by putting the two subjects together and building a major. ·For example, the Fields Methods course described in· a previous Concordiensls issue, is allowed toward the major in~ stead of Social Statistics. CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS . Weiner feels that the biggest change is the aforementioned new organization of courses for a sociology major so that the courses relate to one another. There are six basic options: 1) General Sociology-Anthropo- logy major; 2) Health and illness; 3) Crime and the Legal System; 4) Family, Group Life and CQmmunity Services; 5) Anthropology and Comparative Sociology; · . 6) Inter- departmental majors. The various options still result in a BA in sociology, but, as Wei,ner mentions, \In a letter of ,reference we could say that the student has put 'together a cohesive program, say, in ,health or crime.... These lllQre specialized majors, althoUgh not required, coUld also proVid~ a basis for further study work in graduate school. Inter-departmental majors are also being re.evaluated. Weiner feels the probler:n with the inter-departmental major is often that \After the student graduates we're not sure if they are proficient in either sub- ject! \ The department is trying to solve this by working on programs that \make sense, ll...._ like the one currently being developed between sociology and .psycholpgy. Basically, the department is hoping these changes will ·revive sociology as a major. As Weiner sees it, \Part of the problem is that students see major~ like this as having no career paths or future. This Is something we want to get across-as long as you plan ~our education well., there is no reason why you cannot do anything else.\ This . Js evidenced by the fact · that Union's sociology majors have been placed in Yale School of Public. Health, law school, medical school, and- graduate schools for sociology. The pamphlet which outlines the possibilit-ies is available to sociology majors and all those who may be interested in Sigma Chi Receives A ward The Gamma Zeta Chapter of the Sigma Chi Faratemity has been selected as a winner of the Peterson Significant Chapter Award for the 1982-83 academic year. In a recent announcement from William T. Bringham, Executive Director of Sigma Chi, the ·Union Chapter was recognized by this award for performance ''above average and significant in all areas of major endeavor.\ The Peterson Award is . the highest recognition of achievement which may be bestowed upon an undergraduate chapter of the Sigma Chi Fraternity. David Frederick, President .of Sigma Chi, received a plaque for the frat.~rnity and a check for $50 which was donated to Union. \The brothers of Sigma Chi have brougbt distinction to Union College and their fraternity in winning the Peterson Significant Chapter Award,'' said Assistant Dean of students Robert Massa. \On behalf of the college, I congratUlate Sigma Chi on their fine achievement and thank them for · their . gift to the college~\ Keeter to Give Political Talk The Political Science Department at Union will sponsor a lecture by Prof. Scott .. Keeter of Rutgers Univsrsity on \Windows Winnowers and Winners: The 1984 Democratic Presidential Nomination.\ The talk will be held Thursday, Nov. 3, at 7:30 p.m. in Conference Room A, Carnegie Hall, and is open to the public. Keeter, who taught at Union in 1978-79, is the co-author ofthe book Uniformed Choice: The FaOure of the New Presidential Nominating System, to be published in November. He will discuss the prospects of various presidential candidates and the likely effects of the Democratic party nominating procedures on the choice of a nominee. Euromissiles Topic of Discussion On Thursday, November 3, in Strauss Lounge at 4:30, Rev. Gerhard V uehringer will be speaking on \Peace and Defense: A West German Perspective.'' This will be a discussion of the nuclear disannament wol·k currently .being done in West Gennany arid the roles taken by the churches to work towards peace and justice. Rev. Voehringer will also present a slide show entitled \On the Brink.\ This iS an excellent presentation which covers the European missile situation. It discusses the current level of armaments in Europe, the capabilities of the new Soviet and U.S. milliles, and the European reactions to the escalation· of weapons. This is particularly important. at .this time when the planned December deadline for the deployment of the U.S. Per- shing and Cruise missiles is so near. Rev. Voehringer is 'presently a West Berlin pastor active in the peace movement. His current speaking tour is being sponsored by the American Friens Service Committee .and the N.Y. State Council of Churches. Rev. Voehringer's presentation today is being sponsored by the Campus Ministry and United Campuses to Prevent Nuclear War. Environmental Issues Consit;iered ''The Role of Unions and Minority Organizations in Environmental Issues\ will be the topic of a panel discussion at Union Thursday, Nov. 3. Panel members include Pete Seeger, renowned folksinger, human rights supporter and en- vironmentalist. The session, part of a non- credit course on Environmental Issues, will begin.at 7:30p.m. in Social Sciences Building Room 015. A fee of $10 will be charged for attending this discussion. Other participating panel members are Lillie · McLaughlin, first vice president of the Albany branch of NAACP; Bob Redlow, regional manager for Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union; and Ed Bloch, International Representative for the United Electrical Workers. The lecture series on the environment offers an op- portunity to hear some of the most distinguished en- vironmentalists of New York State speak on issues of critical concern. Further information is available from the Office of Graduat.e and Continuing Studies at Union, 370-6288. Scholarship Fund Established The Sigmund Makofski Scholarship Fund has been established at Union by friends and admirers of the renowned area athlete and coach, and nearly 100 contributions to that fund have been received. Makofski '26, a Schenectady native who now .resides in Florida, is one of the most outstanding athlete.s in the college's history and is a legend in area high school basketball. As a coach at Mont Pleasant, his record of · 461 wins and 35 loSseS includeS six undefeated seasons. Also .an avid golfer, Makofski established several course records, won the New York State Senior Golf Tour- nament in 1961, and was named to the Edison Club'S Golf Hallof Fame in 1983. While at Union, Makofski excelled in football and basketball, getting All American honorable mention honors in the former in 1925 and first team in the latter in 1925-- 26. He was awarded an honorary doctor of pedagogy degree from Union in 1981. Recipients of this scholarship, Makofski Scholars, will- be selected on the basis of out- standing character and record of extra-curricular activities. Preference will be given to graduates of Mont Pleasant High School. Phi Beta Kappa Grant Alpha of New York Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa ~t ·Union is again accepting applications for grants to assist student research during the academic year. The research Should be part of a course, independent study, or senior project un- dertaken at Union. All students, especially those working on senior theses, who are facing research expenses, are welcome to apply. In the past, students have used tMse awards to purchase specialiZed laboratory equip- ment, acquire books and data not otherwise available on campus, and finance mailing or telephone expenses associated with their research. Applications should be ad- dressed to the President of Alpha Chapter, Prof. Judith Ginsberg, Department of Modern Languages. The chapter has also made fundS available for students who wish to bring speakers to campus. These funds can be used alone, or in combination with other funding~ Applications to the Phi Beta Kappa Speakers Fund should also be addressed to Prof. Ginsberg. Ebasco Services Chairman to Speak William Wallace, chairman and chief executive officer at EBASCO Services, will discuss ''Management of an Engineering-Construction CK>mpany and Its Projects in the 1980s\ in a talk Thursday, Nov. 3, at Union. The Administrative and Engineering Systems colloquium will be held at 3:45 p.m. in Room 312, Bailey Hall, and is open to the nublic. · Recognizing both the change in attitude of newer graduates toward big business and the downscaling of typical projects available in the marketplace, Wallace will deal with necessary modifications to the organizational structure and reporting relationships, and the planning and control programs used in light of these factors. Another .change involves the nwnber of courses required to complete a sociology major. A total of twelve courses 1 is still mandatory, but only ten of these must be in sociology. The departmen~ ts now giving up to two course· credits for ''ap- propriate cognate courses.\ These are . courses outside the department that have a relationship of some sort to the major. . Also, the department has noticed that anthropology has become increasingly wpular in . course enrollment, so the~ have devised a major which com- bines courses in anthropology and comparative sociology. In · sociology as a major. ·New Computer Continued from page 1 puter system, diminishing the advantages of owning such a ·machine~ The Committee on the Genei\al Curricular Computer hopes to get a machine that can communicate as easily as possible with various types of microcomputers. Meanwhile, the College has. and will. con• tinue to limit brands of workstations that it Will guarantee to support. It is strongly recommended that students talk to the people in the Computer Center if they are thinking of purchasing a microcomputei\ so they can find one that will fit into the college system. The new computer will hopefully be able to accommodate the small computers more easily. The new computer will also be able tQ handle more work. The Burroughs can only take thirty to forty people at once. Anything above that, the computer Will tell the student to wait, which can be very frustrating when he or she is working on a project. The connnittee hopes to find a computer which can facil~tate about 200 people at a time, gre<,ltly dim,inishiilg the amount of time a person will spend waiting for th~ machiqe to free itself. According~ to Professor Kleiri, there will be more \simUltaneous users without noticeable degradation in speed of service.'' People. will be able to .get their work done quicker and easier. · All of these capabilities will be specified in a Request for Proposals (RFP) which will be sent to various computer manufacturers. The RFP will list· the needs specified in this article and ask manufacturers to find a computer which fulfills them all in the most efficient way, The main task of the Committee on the General Curricular Computer is to formulate the RFP and send it · out to the different companies. The Request for Proposals should be ready by the end of winter term. The members of the committee request that anyone who has suggestions to make about the purchase of the new computer, to please contact one ofthem as soon as possible. The Committee on Committees is currently ac- cepting applications for the one student position left on the Planning and Priorities Group. The Planning and Priorities Group includes members of the administration, faculty, and staff, as wellas an alumni representative, and three· students. The group's activities include reviewing long range plans and establishing priorities for the College. Applicants must have sophomore standing or higher. Applications may be picked up in Student Activities, where they must be returned by Friday, November n. r In addition, the Committee on Committees is presently accepting applications for two student representatives on the Union College Skellar Board. The Skellar Board consists of members of the ad- min~stration, Student Forum, and the student body at large, and goyerns over matters of the Rathskellar. Application deadline: Nov .12. Applications can be picked up and returned at the Student Activities Office. Respectfully Submitted, The Committee on Committees - • p 1 p G tij aJ T: e~ a m dt S< wl yo al be pt aiJ Tl ge fri th di: gi' iti dr sa eli th4 JC Ch fQj vh (cl ou prj an flo cb Th sid ba thE tal Cr( thi CJ.'( ad1 ad1 is ca1 to~ ra~ wh SElf sec 4lfz i' I re~ the evE an sor +-I

CONCORDJENSIS, November 3, 1983 PageS Part If The Hand -Stephens' Bar Guide By CHRIS HAND .and j, C, STEPHENS Well folks, here it 1s again, Part 2 of the Hand;.Stephens'Bar Guid~. We didn't write an ar- ticle last week because- we had absolutely amazing. hangovers. Throbbing head, bloodshot eyes-the works. If anybody bas· a. surefire .cure send it in; we need them. We'll get you a free drink at the best bar in Schenectady. First off,. before we begin this week we must make some corrections that inadvertently made it into the first part. Reggie's received 2% crosses (no more stars, the printer can't deal}. Little Sam's .got 4lh (not 3%) crosses, st. :Martin's got 4% and Station. 3 got 8¥2 crosses. Secondly, due to the over· whelming de:mand, we will tell you how we rate these bars. It ail starts abou.t a week beforehand' when JC and Chris ptit ~he touch on some friends and .scrou.nge up some money. Then depending on how generous (ot how foolish) our friends are, we venture out into the real world. We have put on disguises-so that no one will give us away, and have an itinerary that lasts about 3 drinkS. Once we enter a bar we saunter up to·the bar, place our clipboard discreetly underneath the cocktail napkins and order. JC orders a 'Green Dream' and Chris orders a Smirnoff's on the rocks., ·u·nless the bar is ob- viously. a sleaze bag biker joint (clues' to · look for-men who outweigh us. by· 200 poundS, a predominantly leather decor, and crushed beer cans on the floor) then we order the cheapest draft beer there is. Then if we last 10 minutes in- side, the bar gets 1 cross. If the bartender talks to us, we give the bar 1 cross. If some girl talks to us we give the bar 2 crosses. If .her boyfriend then threatens us, the bar loses 5 crosses. If we get .free'drinks we add llh crosses. If we puke we add 3 crosses. Then the rest of it is entirely subjective. We cannot be bought, bribed, or toyed with. Then we send the raw scores down to Princeton Where the College testing service translates it into the score yousee ..... in between 2 and 4 1 /z crosses. Now on to this week's bars: Frank.ie's Tap Room: A regUlar place. Only regulars go there. We were conspicuous in everything we did. Pinball, and an amazing juke. (country and some real good, old, oldies) +++ 'lbe T(lp SheU: No human has ever been seen entering or leaving this bar. +++% The Doullle D: Has a great wall for grafitti in their parking lot. A real cute bartender, darts, pool ·(complete with hll$1:lers) and a poor juke. But pay rw mind to it, the bartend will play the radiQ if nobody goes · .shoving qU~rters in it. Interesting types frequent it. ++lk SaWIIllll~ A biker bar, cheap beer on Wednesday and Friday, if you can deal. Eclectic taste in the hard stuff, we had never heard of any of the brands 'Video, pinball, pOol and a phone. Awe inspiring juke, the sucker is as large as the customers. ++ The Stockade: No at- mosphere, no· regulars, lots of video and pinball. Good TV also. ++Ih Whittenberg Lomge: Closed. ++ ' Brad's Piaee: Young high schoole1·s frequent it. Avoid It at all costs. Not worth going to jail for.++ Now as a special treat we will rate the two campus watering holes m an attempt to force you to· drink. The Rathskellar: Video, · pinball, and foos; Lousy carding · policy (take note, freshmen) cheap beer at odd hours, 3:30 • 5:00 Friday and sometimes at 3 or 4 in the am, if you're still 'Standing. Lousy wine but it does serve food on a moment's notice. Now that the Rugby team has been given the boot, women can walk in without fear. It's really the only place on campus with anything resembling a collegiate at- mosphere that isn't· a classroom. We have a slight bias on the juke, but public opin~on seems to think it is the best ~bing since sliced white bread. ++++ (They lose ¥.! a cross for being on the wrong side of campus. ) The Dutch· Hollow Pub: Used to be better than theSkellar, but now commonly referred to as \McPub\ or \The Quiche Place.\ It would work on 3rd and 18th but not in Schenectady. Before you. never go to Carnegie again for fear of catching something, let me list its good points: 1) 2) No, seriously tile only place on campus with. hard liquor, oc- casional dancing on Thursday nights, food served at odd hours and a decor that facUlty and prospective students will like. Now in the Interest of fairness, its bad points (sorry .}an). The decor underwent a change to October 29·NovS'mber 20 the by Tennessee Willia1ns A tender,-autobiographical classic. Corporate Sponsor: Key Bank NA. Performances: Tuesday-Saturday 8:00pm; St:mdaY2:30pm; Wednesday, November 2nd 2:30pm Non Student Tickets $8-$13 Students w.ithl .D. Y2 price Tuesday-Thursday evenings, and Sunday Matinee. Limited availability 30 miniJtes before, curtain. · 111 N~rth Pearl Street, Albany, Ne.w York 518•462-45.S4 . Tickets available at The MarketTheatre andCommunity Box Offices. MasterCard and VISA accepted. (No refunds or exchanges.) . . . \chi-chi\ over the 'swnmer. This makes it very difficult to go and get drunk without raughing and spilling your guts. The mirrors don't help much. Who wants to watch themselves make fools out of themselves- although it is fun if its a third party you're watching. But there is the tomato sauce on your face and then walking intp the wall to boot. Another thing is . they cater, much too much, to a non-drinking crowd. Let President Morris pick up Liz there, but it's not for us. ++lh Whew,. that was long. Keep ' drinking, writing those letters, and remember after 5 drinks you don't want to drive, so burn your license and theri puke. If you know of any bars that we haven't reviewed yet please let us know, and next time Saratoga! Features Writers ·Needed! ,. Call6155 Playing pieces for the adventure game, Dungeons a Gaming For Fun By LARRY KAMINSKY Staff Ever have the urge to pillage, plunder and destroy? Then the Union College Gaming Association is for you. The Gaming Association provides a means for people who enjoy adventure games . such as Advanced Dungeons and Dragons, Diplomacy, Runequest and Starfl.eet Battles to get together and play. Dungeons and Dragons, the most played game of the Gaming Association, is a game in which the players become a character which has special abilities such as a magic user, thief, or fighter. The charac- ters' abilities are based on dice rolls of 1-18 which correspond to different characteristics such as strength, intelligence, and dexterity. These characters go on adventures in the \world'• created by the Dungeon Master. The person \role plays\ the character as if he (or she) were actually that person. The Dungeon Master's world is full of adventure, monsters, and treasure. As a character gets more experienced it gains points and can advance to higher levels in which it is more powerful. However, the ob- stacles that have to be crossed to gain experience are usually greater so the player will have to use his (or her) wits in order to do well. In addition to the groups that play regularly, there are open gaming nights where there are . many different kinds of games in which anyone can play. There are also tournaments where the best players win prizes. If you are interested in this unique and challenging game or others that are similar, you can contact the president of U.C.G.A., John Urbano, at box 1982. Beginning and ex- perienced players are welcome. Engineers On the Job By ANDREW CHANG Features Staff As a result of a new project undertaken by the . Materials Infonnation Services Group of General Electric, ap- proximately fifteen Union College students are acquiring first . hand engineering ex- perience. Two months .ago, professors Milillo and Eisenstadt of the Mechancial Engineering Dept., were approached by officials of General Electric concerning possible part-time employment of Union College students in this project. engineering. The group took a ten-hour training session in which they learned industrial terminology and nomenclature. Milillo expects a maximum of thirty full time Union un- dergraduates to be eventually reviewed by an engineer of General Electric. Currently, there are three actively in- volved on the project. Milillo recounts that in the past, General Electric had come to Union numerous times Essentially, the projected .three year undertaking involves the updating of materials in· formation and preparation of eventual computer storage. Last year, General Electric ear.ned $550 million from sales of such information. The data· is published in. ten different languages including Russian, Swahili, and Chinese. Genera a new w ch will allow Union students to gain first-hand engineering experience. Of the thirty-eight applicants, fifteen were selected by Professors Milillo and Eisen- stadt on the basis of grade point average, completion qf baSic, essential courses in engineering science, and overall respon- sibility. The majority are seniors majoring in mechanical hired. The fifteen students work about ten hours per week and have been asked to work full time during the Christmas vacation. The order of materials update are first metals, then plastics and polyzners. According to Eisenstadt, the second grouping will probably need some chemistry majors. He hopes to add additional students in small nwnbers and encourages all interested engineering and chemistry students to apply. Every piece of work is for experimentation and technical, theoretical assistance. He believes this to be a key factor in the selection of Union over other schools in the area such as RPI and SUNY Albany. Overall, the students have an opportunity to earn money to finance their education, gain first hand experience in the engineering community, and a familiarity with materials language, and valuable job experience. r ·~·..._.. . .._. . .._. . ..._.. . ..._.. ........ ..._.. . ..._... . ..._.. . ..._.. . .._..~.---·...., • Guidelines for Dutchman's Night Reservations ., A • Reservations for Dutchman's Night will only be accepted at the Pizza Pub during normal J business hours f)llonday through Thursday. • t • • When making reservations all persons or meal cards must be pres. ent. This is to insure prope. r t reservation taking. . • The party must be booked all at once, this will insure a better dining atmosphere. We cannot • • accept \maybe\ reservations. t l • Cash reservations are welcome. Those who will be paying for dinner, please pay at the door. J • A person must bring his-her I D, meal card and entry ticket at D. utchman's Night. If th.ese are not ., ., present, a person cannot be seated. • Anyone caught using another individual's 10, meal card or dinner ticket will be turned over to • the director of fQod service. Meal card and ID will be taken. ., t • Be. cause of a large dinin.g room turnover, we ask that you be prompt for dinner. This will insure an easy.turnover, and no waiting for people at later seatings. • Thankyouforyoorcooperation. . ::J• l .. Management of the Dutch Hollow Pub 1,.._ ...... .._.. • .._... . .......... T ·~·.._.. • .._. • .._. • .._.. .......... ..._.. • ..._... 1/) It! .~ .c::: u (!) c: .c::: Q. 'Ill 0 >- ..0 0 .... 0 .c::: Q.

>- ~ VI - e <l) aJ c 0 .., >- .0 ~ 0 .c a. Page6 C(JNCORDIENSJS, November 3, 1983 FEATURES Ill-literacy at Union By TED KENDRIS Features. Staff The problem of functional illiteracy in the Unite~ States has been a thoroughly researched and discussed topic. This reporter, in order to verify the accuracy of these reports, at the college level, conducted personal interviews with Union College students. The results of these interviews and other information from sources on campus :were alarming. , the next millenium. what will we do then7 . How long could the average · American last in a city as la1.1ge as New York without :being able to read even the ·simplest signs? Most of us would soon be· in- jured, perhaps very seriously. This woul<lleave the city opel) to all the Quechuans. The result would be awesome-the rebirth and rise of the Inca Empire. This would be a serious prGblem fodbe rest of the United 'States; our economy and our govern- ment would soon be in jeopardy. only one way to prevent this potential catastrophe. American ctlildren should be educated from a very early age in Quechuan. That way; they would be able to function more eff,iciently in society: Our government and econQrny coUld remain under our control. The· time to begin thls preparation is now, according to the study. New schools could be built in this decade, solely for this purpose. Professor Barbara Boyer, discoverer of a new strain of flatworm- Convoluta boyeri. Of the students I spoke with,. not one could read, write, or speak Ul Quechuan. Of course, tl\ere may have been some room for error in my research. Maybe one or two students could function normally in a society which speaks this language. But then, I wouldn 1 t know what they were sayirig and I would probably just . ignore them;However, this does not mean that we should ignore tlili! very serious flaw in our After extensive study, it bas been determined that there is ·In ~nclus!on, we must keep America strcmg. The only way to do thiS is by increasing olli' . literacy-in Quechuan. · Micro Discovery By JUDI PHU..IPSON Staff While on a recent expedition to the Philippines in search of Nautilus, Biology Professor Barbara Boyer has made an exciting, new discovery. While collecting and studying seaweed, Professor Boyer happened upon a new species of tubellarian flatworm. A deScription of this primitive creature was submitted to Transaction of the Microscopic Society ·.pe.riodical for reference. This new strain of flatworm is now named \Convoluta boyeri,\ after Professor Boyer. These worms can be fomtd in remote areas such as mudflats, seaweed, and beaches. Professor·· Boyer's main in- terest is in cytoplasmic localization, a. field concerned with the location of specific organelles located in the fluid surrounding the nucleus. Cytoplasmic localization is related to the early stages of biological development specifically in the embryo. ' Boyer has received her graduate degree in biology from the University of Michigan, with an emphasis in tubellarian flatworm study, a field thafshe has studied since graduate school. She has published works in the subjects of ongenesis and also flatworm development. Boyer has spent the last two suminers at the Woods Hole Next Week! Special Features Article \Student Activities That Are In Danger\ Next week in this section of Concordiensis an indepth article on the decreased participation experienced by some major campus organizations will be presented. Will some organizations and other campus services just disappear due to a lack or interest? Find out next week. MEDICAL vmRIIIARY SCHOOLS MEXICO-PHILIPPINES, • Engu.b Cuniculwn AMockrted Hospitals • TJ:Qll.lfera-no 5th Pathway • Law TUition • LiTe in the ttSA • Admnced accreditation for PhD's. DVM'S, DDS' a, cmd DPM'stoW'ards MD degrett PROVEN STUDENT . SERVICE P.O. Box (06, htwood Stat. NY,NY10034 212-543-3996 Marine Bi9logy lab, studying local species of flatworms. Last September, Boyer participated in an international meeting in England concerning marine organisms. She is well known throughout the world for her work with tubellarian flatworm development. · Boyer feels that her stt1dies are \a tool to examine evolutionary and basic development.\ education. It is estimated that seven IIlillion people in South America are .fluent In Quechuan. That is approximately the population of New York City. As you know, South America is not very far away. My research indicated that we will see a mass im- migration of these ueople with ~­ !$tliNlllt~ Discover the mqgic of good books- THE OPEN DOOR .128-'136 Jay Street Downtown Schenectady . J46-271<t Books • GUtjp_ • Poste.-s • Po.tterv by Rose Catalano . l' ht It al..so stirs unth the rg f Seagrarn's 7 & for dance fever. ' t!·rs with the ceol, refreshingdt~snt~oderation-the perfect partners . . c . · . · ever s en o e • Snell & Snell © 1983. SEAGRAM DISTILLERS CO .. N.Y., N.Y. AMERICAN WHISKEY-A BLEND, 80PROOF \Seven.IJp\ and\ 7UP\ are trademarlls of theSeven·Up Company.

·-. CONCORDIENSIS, November 3, 1983 ·Page 7 FEATURES Humor- Pro fife- Unknown Cause fOr Alarm Anne Higgins ByMATi'N.M6UN ·Senior Writer Between September 17th and 26th, .eleven fire alarms were pulled in Davidson due to !lOme unknown (suspicious) causes~ Although this st.1,1tisti~ may not mean much in human terms, I will now;use thiscolunm to snow how these unnecessary alarms have disrupted one life,... namely, my own-during my first days back at school this year. 9-17-11:3Cl a;m;- Pulled on , first fioor :Davidson South- After my first three days of classes I decide to sleep late on Saturday and am · rudely awakened. Willing to make the best of a bad situation, I eat an early brunch. . · ~17-12:15 p.m.-- Pulled on first floor South-I return from brunch, and decide to go back to sleep. It is then that I am awakened by a seemingly Wlbelievable two·ftre alarms in one day. 9-18--11:39 a.m.-. PI,Jlled on first floor South-Union College Security now infonns me that they think they see a definite .pattern emerging and will now stake out the origination point of all these mysterious fire alarms. \ 9-20---12:20 a.m.- Pulled on second floor South--After a - summer-long interval, I finally prepare myself to begin wat· c;~g \David Letterman\ only to ,miss the .beginning as this fire alarm so'unds. Security is now totally baffled since this alann occured at a different site than the previous three. 9-20-2:30 a.m.- Pulled· on second floor South--At this point, the R.A. 's are really becoming annoyed because they are · now having to do a little work-something they just - weren't prepared for at Camp Itchy-Goomie in the Adiron- dacks. Personally, I am ap- palled at a male R.A. who derives incredible pleasure trom barging into the rooms of female students in the middle of the night in the hopes of cat- ching them Wldressing. 9-20-4': 33 p.m.-. Second floor South-Security once again sees a .patternemerging. Tht:wcall in· retired sergeant Joe \Har~ dhead'' Malone--97 years old and a veteran of 30 years with Union Security. He was in- trwnental in breaking-up the fraternity street gangs that proliferated at this school in the 1930s. . 9-20-11:06 p.m.-Second floor South-oThe Davidson Fire _Alarm Story of 1983 claims its first victim as \Hardhead\ Malone's .pacemaker gives out at the shock of the alarm. Wether or not-he would have cracked the case will never be answered. I now begin to wear a black arm band in memory of a man who died in the line of duty. 9-21)--,-11:28 p.m.- Second floor South-At thiS point, I hide in my refrigerator in a valiant at· te~pt not to leave the dorm on this cold Wednesday night. Unfortunately, the R.A. checking my . room desides to look for something to eat and I am ·found. He agrees not to fine me if I give hjni the ~ of the tonafish sandwitch I \mistakenly\ too~ out of Hale earlier that day. 9-~2:14: a.m.- Second floor South .. ·I am now ecatatic because I picked the closest time in the dorm pool !Uld am the recipient of $14.75. Still l wonder whe~e tile H.R.A. {if there is one) has been all this time; 9-2&--1:30 a.m.- Second floor South....;My search now begins for a place to live off-campus. However, the student housing market is bare and the best I can find is a one-room apart- ment on Nott Terrace over Domino's Pizza. However, the birght light of the large domino outside my window keeps me awake until 1:00 a.m. Sunday- Thursday and2 a.m. Friday and Saturday. g.;2&-11:47p.m.-Secondfloor South-A small group of people in Davidson decide that they will finally take some action. They cut of£ the fingers of everyone living on the offensive floor. Finally the problem is solved, as there are no more alarms. By BETSY TREITLEI\ Fea1ures Staff Individuals often dedicate themselves to education either concentrating on a specialized field or delving into diversified areas of study. The truly remarkable scholar is he who advances ·through his studies and attempts to bnpart . his knowledge to others, inviting them to explore and share in the excitement of learning. Pl'ofessor Anne Higgins is a new member of the English Department who continues to purs11e a personal interest in· the study of Medieval culture and its effects on the development of the West. She wishes to in· troduce this concept into the Liberal Learning .program, thereby fostering an in- terdisciplinary approach to education. Prof. Scott Keeter of .the- Rutgers University Political Science · Department wUI speak on ''Windows, Winnowers, and Winners: The 1984 Democratic Presidential-Nomination\ on Thursday, November 3 at 7:30p.m. in Carnegie Conference Room A. Prof. Keeter, who taught in the Union College Political Science Department d~ring the 1978-79 year, is a specialist on mass . media, polls, and elections. He is the co- author of a new book, Uninformed Choice: The Foilure of the lvew Presidential Nominating System. His lecture is spbnsored by the Political Science Departlqent with support from the Lester Fund. Professor Higgins points out that there were significant changes in the world during the millenium of the 5th and 15th centuries. She points to the Middle Ages as the foundation for many of the characteristics and institutions of the West. She claims, ''There are many continuities and crucial dif- ferences between ideas and institutions of the West and the' Middle Ages,\ and the evolution of the changes may be seen if one studies aU aspects of history beginning with the period of the Middle ' Ages. She describes such continuities as the con- stitutional form of government and the national state literacy styles, styles of art, notions of architecture and the Christian World. The crucial differences are \the obvious,\ she says as she reflects on the suits of ar- mor and rigid customs- and traditions of the early times. Professor Higgins speaks of \combining problems from all different areas\ in order to promote a liberal learning program; on~ cannot strictly \approach literature from a literature point of view.\ A variety of influences come into play iiJ. the composition of anything, whether It be a novel, a work -of art or even a whole developing society. Professor Higgins has no \interest in recreating\ the medieval epoch-''e:specially as a female,\ she interjects; but rather to explore the history of the era and learn \what it tells us about now.\ Higgins ex- presses in interest in un- derstanding the medieval culture and its effects . but distinguishes herself from those like the society for Creative Anachronism. Members of this group are es'J)ecially intrigued by medieval culture and would perhaps like to reestablish in contemporary times some of those institutions and ideas of medieval society. /talia Pizzeria & Restaurant 1617 Union St. 374-4j)23 1--------Weekly Specials ...... __ __... __ ......__ Monday: 8 cut Cheese Pizza only $3.25 Tuesday: Any Sub tor only $2.25 Wednesday: Buy any 12 cut and get a 6 cut FREE Thursday: 2 order.s of Spaghetti or Ziti with Bread for only $3.25 Friday: 12 cut Cheese Pizza $4.25. (Add $1.25 per J()ppingJ PIZZAS Saturday: FREE 16 oz. bottle of Soda with any Sandwich ( l per customer) Sunday: FREE Quart of Pepsi with any order of $8.00 or more 50¢ Delivery Charge for orders under $5.00 HOT SANDWICHES ---NAPOLETANA--- ·VIII Pannklilnl 3.75 IC!tt SCut Sta1k S1nd'wlc:h . . . 2.60 6.911 Pl1nt 2 25 «td .25 to bHow lot plfrm~n, Ch ... • • · ... • • ·• • 3 .i 5 Ch~e~~ • ··\\'\·~.50 Meatball... . 2.30 SauUI~ 2 40 1 Topp!rlg •. , .••• ;, 4.50 1 Topping., •••.. , • 5.30 Patnml . . . . . . 2.35 Sausage & Peppet . 2.50 2Toppl~ ........ 5.10 2TDOf>lneo ........ B,IX) AntipHto S.lld. 3 Toppllll!l ........ us 3 Topplneo .. , ..... e.1s 4 Toppings ar rna,. -.111M prict 2.95 Tht Worlt.1 , ...... , 7.00 ThtWarkt ....... , 7.110 PASTA - ----SICILIANA Manicanl . , , , , .... 3,50 )with Mtatblllsl .. , 4,4Q 12 C!tt 14 CUt Spoghottl ... , ... , 2,10 (with M\tbollrl . 3.50 Ch- .. , , ... , , D:25 C\- .. · .. , .. ,, V.l& Ziti,, . ._ ........ 2;75 (with Maotblllrl ... 3.50 1 T-\'t. •,,. 7,10 1 Toppllijj,,,,, , . ., i i,OI; Hovloll •. ,, .•... , . 3.26 (W~th Mootblllrl . 3,90 ..._ . 7.110' 2 T -' 1316 L.ooogne ...... , ... 3,00 lw•th Moatb•llrl 4.60 2 TQP~lnrp • • • • .. • j • opptnt& ''' '' '' ' .Jilbov.lnefuda Orwd •nd S.fld 3TOfljl(np \\ \\ 0.50 3TD01>1ngo \\,\ 14.95 ToiOOdSIIod .... \ ThtWoil<o ....... IO.olll ThtWarf<1 ....... 17;95 llrfnl In thil ~.\'\'tot $1.00 off iln YoUr piu• SU.B SANDWICHES All-n...,.w..lwtthlrrll_toinl_,_ tnd-opoelolly.~~· AOIOl 811f , , •• ,. 3.25 Turluiy , ..... , , , 3.25 tt.n , , , , , , , , ••• , , 2.10 Tunil • , ••••• , •• , , • 2.415 Hom ACI>otto .. ,, 3.00 e~~otoo· ...... , •.•• 2.20 · Slllml \ • \ \ ••.•• 2.115 ClplooHe ... \ • \ ' 2.55 ltailon Mlxod . lc:i!>looiiO. -.~ Mon~ ... '\\\\\\''·' •• '' 3.11 I_, T_,., - All ciJO it>o;httd vou COil Mt,~l - - MHtbitt, 4lfli - of Ol<llo lrcod end . Satod,,, for.onlw tMt. · .. · .. 1.50 CAL20NE ct\tllhl , , , . . , , . . 2.25 t TopQIIlll'. . VlS 2 TopplnJII • • . , . 2,6C J Toppings . . 2.85 NEW HOURS Sundlv 3:do p,m{ to 11;'obp.rnr MandaV dlru Thurw:t•v 11:00 m.m. to 12:00 p.m. FrldaY tnd S.turdtV 1 t:oo· •. m. to 1 ·00 1 ~':}...,, W• Dfllvrr Afllr 5:(10 p,ni, CA~L 374•4f2l ~f~f· NOT AGAIN! Nowmlxlr 12 CoaUUon Natlonc:d Off a ~O.IIox 50131 'Mnhington. n.c. :11004 12021 :W7.SSI6 . Stop U.S. intervention in Central America and the Caribbean. . MARCH ON WASHINGTON NOVEMBER 12. Produced by Pubhc Me<I>O Cent\ · Professor Higgins 1 in light of . ~ ·~ ~fi.a/~.Afd Posters • Godiva.Chocolates Kites• Teddy Bears Thanksgiving Cards New Enamel Earrings Monday thru Saturday 10: 30·5: 00 Tuesday thru Thursday unti18:30 164 Jay Street Schenectady, New York 12305 Phone 518·374-2803 her interest, praises the ft:esh- men preceptorial as the beginnings of an in- terdisciplinary approach to studies. She po.ints out tbe profits of reading Darwin, Marx and Freud, among others. She notes further the benefits of the eolJl'Seasone which may be and is taught by professors of various disciplines. The student is exposed to new vistas and at the same time, declares Professor Higgins, the student can learn to appreciate 'in· dividual commitment to material according to personal interests and approaches.' Higgins' interest in the Middle Ages stems from her study of Gothic architecture in _ Northern France at the University of Rouen. Her in- terest was heightened by her study of Romanesque ar- chite~ure in Southern France while she taught at the University of Bordeaux. Higgins, after teaching in France, conducting courses in English and speaking on a French radio program 'course at home,' continued her studies and received her MA in French at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. She received a fellowship in English to McGill Univeristy in Quebec and then began to search for an interdisiplinary program. She is currently completing work in the Department of Medieval Studies at Yale. Her studies encompassed literature, history, philosophy, art but \focused on one era.tt Her goal is to complete her dissertation by spring and receive her Ph.D. Professor Higgins intends to speak about Medieval drama and time at a conference about Medieval theatre at the University of Swanee in Ten- nessee. She will lecture at Delhousie University in Nova Scotia, on \Medieval Notions of Time.'' Professor Higgins is also working on a review of translations of a French- Canadian novel by Claire Martin called Best Ma.n. This will be submitted to \Fid- dlehead,\ a Canadian literary journal. Professor Higgins also plans to expose Union to Medieval culture and its influences. She, along with a few colleagues with similar interests, are preparing to propose an interdisciplinary. course in Medieval culture. Higgins intends to invite as a guest speaker, Lamont Fellow, Professor Jaroslav Pelikan, of the history department at Yale who is an authority on in- tellectual and social history of Medieval culture. In addition, she plans to request, as a guest speaker in her class, the presence of Sir Geoffrey Ashe who is an English scholar and expert on the history and evidence of King Arthur. Professor Higgins will con- tinue her research while ac- tively attempting to encourage the interdisciplinary approach to learning. She lauds Union's liberal learning program stressing the continuity bet- ween subjects. Further, gJte enphasizes the importance of diverse point~ of view and appreciation for · various ap- proaches to specliic subjects. She will continue .to explore Medieval studies through her own research and she will also strive to \cook up new ways of delving into the same old material. n

Page$ CONCORDI£NS/S, November 3, 1983 FounJn/ al { lmon Collt:gt /817 ------------ --~--~--- Sloan Program PraiSed The new quantitative preceptorial program sounds like it could provide an excellent addition to the Union curriculum. Applications for technology in everyday life have grown drastically in recent years, but the .career directions many -students choose to take don't always involve or permit them to become familiarize~ 'with some of the technical aspects of society. Quantitative preceptorial should help to alleviate this problem. This course is designed to allow students to use analytical techniques in solving a problem or developing a position on a current political_ issue, rather than using simple gut feelings. If this course is well-developed, and indications show it will be, it should become a basic for freslunen. Technical analysis is impartial, a feature important to position-taking but one not always readily available. We owe a great thanks to the Sloan Foundation for providing the funding for this worthwhile course. The concept is one with great potential to provide an in- valuable experience for Gur students. Raise Drinking Age? A national trend of raising drinking ages seems to be emerging. Vermont now has the distinction of being the only state bordering New York where 18- year-olds are still permitted to· buy alcohol. . A proposal in Congress to make a national-dringing age of 21 is gaining more and more momentwn. Higher drinking ages do indeed accomplish very important results. They help to get alcohol out of the high schools and cut down on drinking-driving ac- cidents of young people. But things are different here at Union. A drinking age of 21 would make campus bars extinct, which may be exactly what some people want. We are a confined community where on-campus drinking is safer and less risky than off-campus bar hopping. Sometimes unpleasant situations develop from drinking on campus, but the College is able to deal with them internally. Our campus establishments that serve . alcohol provide, like it or not, a cohesiveness for our students. To consider this in the realm of national policy may be selfish, but it seems a shame and unnecessary to close down these self-contained bars that actually prevent DWI. · If raising the drinking age will cut down on deaths and injuries, we can't seriously argue against such measures. Stricter DWI laws could be considered instead. Maybe we just have a soft spot for the Skeller and the Pub. Get a good look at them, though, for they may not be with us much longer. A f\1 b NO\Iv' WE PRES EIVT THE fiLM FODTAG't: OF THE: GR.eNAD;J INVAS rorv W\-I!C.H TliE GOI/&.RNMENT HAS SO &RACIOUSLV ALLOWE:J) Drinking Age May .Be .Raised To All Students: As you may know, two bills have been introduced in the New York State Legislature to raise the legal drinking age f.rom 19 to 21. The Syracuse University Student Government Association is planning to launch a major lobbying .effort aimed: at convincing New York legislators to vote against such a move. The Syracuse University organization, known as No Raise, has asked for our help in this fight. The Student \ rorwn needs to know your feelings on this issue. A drinking age of .21 would have .implications for all Unlon students, regar<Uess .of ~ge. Supporters ofa higher drinking age were successful in their bid to move the legal age,fr~m 18 to 19 last year primarily because there ·was a \lack of organized student input. Whether you favor a higher drinking, age or not, your voice should' be heard . in Albany. ' The Student Forum will cli$CUS.S• the forinulation. of a policy on this issue at our next regular meeting. Please take a moment to let the members of the Fottun know_ your views. And as always, aU Student F.'orum meetings,. which are held at 9:00 pm on Mondays on the fourth floor of Carnegie, are open to the public. We welcome your opinions and seek to serve your interests~ . . Sincerely, · Win Thurlow StUdent Forum President IFC Condemns Vandalism · To The Editor: The Inter-Fraternity Council would like to take the op- ponunity to join other-members of the college campus in con• demning the ruthless acts .of vandalism that occurred recently- after Phi Sigma Kappa'.s \World War III\ party. These immature acts of · destruction taint the name of Union College and more im- portantly, the studf'nts who attend school here. As a tnembet; of the IFG. a student must be concerned With the Greek image on campus. However, the Greeks are Union College students first, who must be concerned with the well being of the school itseif. Events like those that took place after Phi Sig's pal1:y do not help raise the image of either Fraternal life at Union, or the college itself. .. Once again, the IFC and its members condemn these vandalous acts and call for the entire Union community to join. together to put a halt to these actions. Sincerely Yours, Qfflcers of the Interfraternity Council From the President of. JSU To The Editor: Recently several anti~semitic acts have been committed on campus such as the drawing of swastikas and the appearance of denegrating remark$.. The people reswnsible for these acts are unknown. It is my hope to remind the parties respon- sible, alomg with all others who even jokingly sympathize with Articles Critiqued To The Editors: I am writing this letter in response to last week's issue of Concordieosis. There were a number of glaring faults, that matted what normally is a good college newspaper. First of all, on the front page was an article about the Sloan seminars. Fine; until one reads that the seminar in question happened more than two months ago. Why was there not an article about the seminar that happened on the 21st and 22nd of this month? Or is it necessary for news to sit around and get moldy before Con· . cordiensis will print it? (The week before there was an ar- ticle about Prof. Gado's ap:- pointment to the Union Press- thisis 21 months old . .) What was going through the editor's mind when they . published that . \photo by P.E. Sacks\? What is it, ad why is it front page news? Secondly, there was an article about \Pizza etc.\ This article worked better than the ad that was on the same page for \Pizza etc.\ in convincing me that I should buy Union. Lines such as \don't call Pappa Cicco's or Domino's call \Pizza etc.\ Opinions are supposed to stay on the editorial page and not be presented as news, or features. Other than these errors, which I assume were due to forgetfulness, the issue was a fine one. Sam Wolfeo '85 · . dared to disagree with them. the Nazis, what the Nazis believed; for in drawing. a swastika or in some other way agreeirig with the Nazis one is condoning their actions. The Nazis. in the name of \Aryan Supremacy\ brought intolerance .to .a peak. Anyone who was \different\ was hated, and thus, according to Nazi philosophy needed to be \ex- terminated.'' The Nazis. following their philosophy murdered 11 million J)eople- Intolerant views, such as those of the Nazis, must be strongly and loudly condemned by everyone. We- must point out the fallacies in the claims of the Nazis and all other hate groups, and we must strive to eliminate ignorance of our differences. Most of all, we must not allow · hate and intolerance to .become Jews, Blacks, Catholics, Communists, Gypsies, · Homosexuals, and anyone who Editors-in-Ghief News Editors Features Editor Associate F.eatures Editors ArtsEditors · Campus Page Editors . Sports Editors Advertising Editors Layout Advisor popular. . Michael Factor President Jewish Student Union Julie Abelrnan, Doug Landon Jay Baruch, Gayle Rosenfeld Donna Getson . Dave Fitzgerald, Franklin Schneider · Debbie Albert Karen Lissauer Karen Greaves, Jill Kaufman , Drew Hurley, PaulKurker Mary Ann Gagliardi, Heidi Rosen ·· Peter Mohr Photo Editor Associate Photo Editor Sports Photo Editors Subscriptions Editor Political Cartoonist Mary Phillips Daphne Chigas Robert Tang, Bonnie Rosenberg ... Lori Kaplan David Neiblum Jan Baran, Robert Bassin, Rich Beigen, Jill Bradley, Jodi Brenner, Andy Chang, Tod Dimmick, Lou George, Sam Gifford, Josh Greene, Staff • Chris Hand, Lynn Hano, Dave Marin, · Christine M~sching, Robin Molella, Lori Oliwenstein, Judy Philipson, Steve Pira,ino, Linda Raffaele, Wendy Richards, Rob Rissell, DePbie Rose, Margot Salisbury, Barrie Stahl, Judie Steinhardt, Janice Thompson, Peter Stegemann, Betsy Treitler, Sherry Weitzen, Philip Westerman, Debbie Wiener, · Scott WYkoff, Linda Zahnleuter Photo Staff Jon Barofsky, Jim CampbeU, David DwoJ;\kin Liz Karazim, Paul Klein, . Pat Merritt, Patti Sacks, Larry Shapiro CONCORDIENSIS. is. published every. Thur$day by th~ student body of Unwn College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady New. Y ~rk 12308; . Publications Office: Susqueh;:mna Publicatwns, ~~~·,Box 388, Sidney, New Yo~k 1383~ '607) 563- 7151. Entered m ~he Schenect'aqy Post Offtce as first class ~tter. ~ubscription. rate, $18 per year, delivered anywhere m the Umted States. Office Telephone !~7~155. r . CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service .. (CPS),andutili~estheCollege'NewsBureau(QNB)L _ , . ...__,• • 1 f, v u c y .C1 n it tl m a] st m ar lU Pl e:s wi b~ no Otl ffil tw ch reJ ar1 COl bu im ( tUI fro ch• no1 sta Me Ge; As1 Ah~ To ] ha pai sh< Co: th~ SUI rer to stu gla to To I1 tha· the Jac to i pro use peo the of 1 und - To' A at yeal SDni arrE Frici Cocl li miCl Uni< and of ru are 1 soci4 ~

CONCORDIENSJS, Novelfl6er 3. 1983 Page9 COMMENTARIES • Another Viewpoint G~OC. Bless . To Tile EditO.rs, Where do you and the student forum come off condemning vandalism? It goes on right tmder evecybody;s noses, and is condoned every other day of the year. Why get angry now? ' · What makes damage to a . couple of security cars (who nobody likes anyways) any different than tbe painting of the Idol. Would the sculptor of . the Idol enjoy what has been dQne to his statue, or is he in- significant lri comparison to how Chris Chadwick :feels? Are JSU posters more im· llOrtant than desks? Everybody has carved .or scrawled something on a de~. Tbere are even things written on .the desks tha~ are in the Concordiensis office-and the most touching thing is that the college has Chester Arthur's name,· which he carved on his windowsill,. framed an9 hanging in Milano Lounge. What if' the author .of these alleged anti-semetic statements was Ezra Pound? Would the college frame them also? Come down off your high horses. Kicking a car, or busting a computer are valid expressions of anger. They are both better than pulling a .knife on some Greeks. Name withheld • A:~ ~enca By GENERAL BEAUREGARD SMITH and is decided in less than thirty minutes by a judge who is more concerned with catching his Now that we have gotten plane to the Caribbean islands ourselves entangled in the af- than he is with upholding the . fairs of the Lebanese people, law ·of the land; it would be Apathy · -Not For Students O:nly · what Should tbe Reagan ad- illogical for us to pick this ministration do to solve the choice. Remember what you problem? The logical thing to do said during your last campaign,· iS look at aU of the possible \Consistency is the foundation alternatives and then choose the upon which you must build and most comprehensive, in- nourish a proud and happy To The Editors: I would like to make a com- ment about the continued apathy of not only Union students, but faculty and ad- ministrators as well. This is not another condemnation in a long list that have appeared in your publication, however. I am expressing an honest concern with lack of interest expressed by the College .audience when notable speakers visit Union only to be .confronted with a mere handful of people. Lec- tures are almost always free of charge, yet attendance still remains small. These events are also invariably open to the community outside of Union, but again crowds are less than impressive. One could argue that lec- turers at Union have been far from interesting in either their choice of topic or in their own notoriety. However, I think this statement is far from correct. Men such as former Attorney General Ramsey Clark and Associate Professor Edward Ahearn of Brown. University were both recent visitors to Union. Clark and Ahearn both had a lot to say about their respeetive topics of discussion and. proved quite interesting and informative\ However, Clark appeared befor·e a disappointingly small crowd while Ahearn was met primarily by freshmen preceptorial students upon strong \suggestion\ by these students' professors. Union is a fine institution that requires much from its students in the form of studies. Yes, everyone has a lot to do, but usually one can take an hotlr or so of time out to sit around so why not attend a lecture now and then? Oftentimes these lectures pertain to a course of study being pursured by many students so they may even help clarify some points. Also, lectures are a link to the outside world, a place .often lost to students in the midst of the semester. . Again, this is not directed toward the student body, but also to the professors and ad- ministrators here at Union. Professors should be more apt to inform the students of per- tinent speakers and should possibly incorporate what the speakers may have to .say in class .lectures where possible. The Union faculty is full of experts in every field, but speakers are an outside source of information that go virtually unnoticed by the College . community. Money is spent by Union to bring lecturers to the College, but what is the point if only a · few people attend these programs? A valuable slice of knowledge is being missed out on because people refuse to spend a short allotment of time away from their studies. If this trend continues maybe the money and effort used to bring these speakers to Union should be directed somewhere else. However, this is undoubtedly not the answer. Lecturers are a vital aspect of all colleges, but until this is realized these speakers will remain an un- tapped source. · RespectfullyYours, Gayle Rosenfeld telligent, and moral choice nation.\ We must be consistent which would cost the fewest so this choice is definitely out. American lives, keep the ex- How about a more con- penditures to a minimum, and servative alternative, · you in the end serve the United might ask. We could escalate States' best interests. Well, Mr. our overall commitment and President, what is your steadily increase the number of · decision? Seeing that you might troops we have stationed there. need some assistance; I have We could then commence prepared this brief report reconnaissance (search and listing your possible alter- destroy) missions into ;mother natives, and I took the liberty to quagmire. Repeats are always add my own analysis where I boring and I think I have believe it was needed. · already seen that performance Starting with the far left, you, down the street at the Viet- Mr. President, could nationalize namese Theater. I'm sure your all of those unused Braniff 747's defense contractor friends in at)d immediately Withdraw our California fall asleep dreaming boys, and b:~;ing them home for about a foreign policy. But you Thanksgiving. This choke must consider the other con- would be the most convenient sequences also. All of those seeing that all of the marines leftover hippies from the six- are already at the airport in ties, or otherwise weathermen, Beirut. I do not think this choice would cause riots in our streets is wise because pulling out and ruin our image with our quickly would make the United allies; they would take over States, and you most of all, Mr. college campuses at a time President, look like one of those when our ROTC programs are liberal conunie pinko fags. And on the rise; and they would blow with the presidential election themselves up trying to make right around the corner it would bombs while their parents are be unadvisable for you to get off jetsetting around from tax ideologically close to Walter shelter to tax shelter. I don't Mondale. think our cotmtrycould handle Moving a little closer towards that right now. This choice is the center of the spectrum, we also out. Suggestion For Dorm Renovation To The E_ditors, I sit here typmg this after just having undergone a very painful experience, trying to shave.. in the bathroom in West College. I am very glad to see that the school is putting. large sums of money into the renovation of Davidson and Fox to increase the number of student beds. I was also very glad when renovation was done to Hickok House to improve conditions th~re. I fell that it is about time that something was done to improve the plumbing in West. It is an eye-opening ex~ perlence when one tries to wash every morning with either burning hot water or ice cold water. In addition to the · outdated separate fauc~ts, many times . we awaken to find little or no hot water in. the showers. I realize that this is a problem that is inherent to the plumbing of old buildings, but there must be a way to stop the water tem- perature from dropping or in- creasing thirty degrees when someone in the bathrooms flushes the toilet. I urge those who decide how housing funds are spent to consider a renovation of the plwnbing, it's about time. IJL West College could slowlY' phase out our It seems that the most con- commitment and withdraw out servative choice is our only troops over a period of two alternative. Why not put an end months. No, I think this choice to the worldwide parking is also out. Face it, the problem shortage and create a country- will not solve itself. Turmoil has wide parking lot? Your boys been an inhabitant of that area from Bechtel probably know a ·since the beginning of recorded good asphalt subcontractor in history. The problem is cer- the Mid-East and this will bring tainly not going to disappear if them some business and help we just turn our backs on it and o11t their balance of payment walk away. It would not be in problems. the United States' best interests \How are we going to make a ·either . .Jn this bipolarized zer<r parking lot?\ you ask. Well; it's Are Locked Gates Necessary? swn world we live in, our loss is simple, we could kill two birds the Russians' gain. Walking with one stone. Seeing that we away and giving up is like are going ahead with the Grandma burning the apple pie deployment of the Pershing II To The Editors: doors, after all they were stolen doors, one does not prevent. use last year. But is it necessary for of the path, it just makes people she made for dinner because missile in Europe, and Lebanon It has come to my attention that Security has been locking the Kappa Alpha Gates into Jackson's Garden. I would like to point out that at least 60, probably more than 100 people use these gates daily. These are people who live off-campus on the North side and the members · of the Beta fraternity. I can understand the need to lock the them to be locked at·lO o'clock angry. If they stay locked there on a Tuesday morning? The ' will be a valid reason to steal path that leads through th~ them. If it is truly necessary to doors is used to get to and·from lock them, then coulda schedule campus. By using the path and be posted of when the gates then findiiig the doors locked, would be open, so that we who one is forcedto either climb the use the path would know wlien gates, go through the gate~ at we could? Or would it be North, or through one of the two· possible to lock them at the holes in the fence around hinges so that they could still maintenance. By locking the stay open without fear of theft? Chris Hand she was out in the yard is only a hop, skip, and jump repairing that lemon of a away, why not test these Chevrolet she purchased last missiles' dependability, ac- year. This choice would be curacy, and kill factor by ·outright treason and totally launching them from Europe unAmerican. and the carnage will solve our The most logical and middle problem. That would certainly of the road choice would be to take the wind out of the withdraw our peacekeeping European missile protestors' troops while replacing them sails. with U.N. sponsored troops from Andorra, Tonga, Surinam, So, there you have it, Mr. and Nepal. At the same time we President; your solution is just could be working out a· peace one overseas phone call away. plan between all of the sides This solution would cost the No More· Lines To ~e E!ditors, ' A familiar phrase often heard at Union-\lines lines, lines, yeah!\ will probably not be .sung·for quite a while., due to the arrest of a Union student last Friday for allegedly selling Cocaine to an undercover cop. Living in a sheltered microcosm of the \real world\ Union students . were surprised and scared by this event. Many of us engage in activities which are not acceptable (or legal) in society yet we feel protected by the gates of Union. It is no secret that crime is a major problem and I do believe that criminals should be punished. However, victimless crimes des.erve special at- tention. I am not condoning the sale or use of illegal substances, and I know that this crime has vic- tims. But-when a 20 year old is arrested and might go to prison for allegedly selling coke to an adult, who is the real victim? Too often, the police are not given enough credit. Controlling involved. Yet wait, who ever fewest American lives, it would drug traffic is a very difficult said we have to be logical? In cost the fewest dollars and we ~ask. The hardest part of this these rather illogical times of would solve a major U.S. JOb is probably catching the 200 billion dollar· federal foreign policy problem once and people on top-Who deal with deficits,· a Congress which for all-and that hasn't been millions· of dollars worth of spends more time censuring its done since Teddy Roosevelt was drugs a year~ Instead, many of members than it does dealing in office. the \little guys\ are caught, with important issues, and a Once this problem is solved often by entrapment. I un- court system which is so then we can direct and commit derstand the police's dilemma overloaded with cases that a all of our national energies to on this issu~that entrapment fair and speedy trial is one that more important problems such may be one of their only comes up for argument a year as El Salvador, Grenada, and methods .of apprehending these after the crhne has taken place the Interior D~ent. criminals. However; the police '-----------------------------. are constantly going after the of ~pending large amounts of centrate on the \big guys\ -the small-time dealers who, in time and money apprehending source. many instances, are not causing (entrapping) the \little guys\ great danger to anyone. Instead maybe the police should con-

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, November J. 19BJ 1(, Dutch Hollow Pub . 1 Friday, November 4, 1983. 4:30-8:00 p.m. ·· Happy Hour .. 1 1. Bar Pour Drinks ............................ 1.25 . \ 2. Draft· Beer ............................ , ..... . 50 \ , 3. Soda ........................................ .. 25 Reduced Pitchers 1. Soda ....................................... 1.25 2. Beer ................•............. : . ....... 2;50 Reduced Wine Carafes 1. Small .......... .\ ..........•.................. 1.75 2. Large.· ................................... : . . 3.75 Non- Alcoholic Drink l.La·Breeze ......................•........... 25 2·. La Windmill 1 ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 25 Special Drinks (Fri. & Sat.) 1. Du.tch Toas.tedAimond, ...................... 1.00 Concordiensis Elections . . . for. the editor-in-chief positions for winter-spring terms will be held Toesday, Nov~ 15. H interested .m running, .please giv~ your name ~o Mrs. Marra in Student Affatrs before Tuesday • · . ·window Offices Available ' ' ' 2. Apple R.um ................................. 1.00 · ' ! ' COMPARE & SAVE D\IA. ... ~ ~·(;~()~df (374-4332) Our Original Domino's Riggi's N.Y. Pizzeria PIZZA SIZE 6 cut 8 cut $ 4.82 $ 5.90 $ 4.12 $ 5.99' $ 6.05 s 5.95 • PRICES ARE A CHEESE ~IZZA DELIVERED TO UNION COLLEGE. BUY THE BEST PIZZA AT THE BEST PRICE ' QlJALIFICATlONS: Minimum BA/BS degree (summer graduates may inquire). Applicants must pass aptitude and physical examinations and qualify for security clearance. U.S. citizenship required. BENEFITS: Excellent package includes 30 days' earned annual vacation. Medical/ dental/low-cost life insurance coverage and other tax-free incentives. Dependents' benefits available. Promotion program included. A Navy Representative will be on campus on ·November 9. For an appointment, sign up in the . Career Placement Office or call collect: (518) 462-6119 N ~vv OFficers Get Responsibility Fast. __ IJ you ueed C1 t M e( -:tf vellf erl tjPHt 1984 YEARBOOK ON ·SALE Htflt re ••sKIN SYSTEMS\ is a 'Total Salon,' our hair designers have been trained by Sassoon, of London, and Jingles, N.Y.C. We cater to all your needs: Hair Design Perms Colour Bodywear Nail Lengthening Waxing Facials Pedicures ' ': All students may order the 1984 Garnet for only $15.50 until Nov. 11th. After that date, the price will be $20.00. Order your yearbook NOW from Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. i ·. Please tall: 374-0736 Gooding Skin Systems 322 State Street Sch~nectady TIME CENTER J~WELEJ{S· . .· 428 State St. ~::eED 1 :~r: From Proctors . Downtown Schenectady, (518) 374-0183 Wtt're- old en·ough to know better • • • • - 1 p . • t j i t i i t .,. l ar sc c~ pa ch W< re th: by oh al ve ' fm by Rc va th• tel en for (w se~ ]o~ Di4 hw im thE Fa au4 act ju~ wit obj bill eg~ , w:U crij tal Ra] act pia alVI list be~ . Ba1 ~ Ma urg she enc

CONCORDIENSIS, November 3, 1983 Page 11 TH.E ARTS. I . ' .. .. - Proctor's HciP-peni~gs Browne - Beffer Than Ever IJy TO:J)DlMMICK . November fourth at Proctor's will not be your average Friday ntghtt A group known as Riders (n · tlte Sky will be. performipg. Tb~y are a trio that does. nc;~t .fall. mto any easy frame. Poplllar comedians, Singers of country and bluegrass, and actors, they ha:ve played o£ten at The Grand Old Opry. One meinber toured with Loggins and. Messina, anl)ther has written many · s()ngs, in!uding T·ammy ' Wynette's ''World's Most Broken Heart,\ and the tbird is ll well-known siriger and writer. With names like Doug .\Big Fella ''Green,· Fred. \Too Slim\ LaBour and Woody Paul, playing guitar, string bass and fiddle, you may expect an in- teresting and entertaining evening. Friday, November fourth at 8 p.m. is the time to be there! The American Ballet Comedle {SatUrday~ November 5 at 8 .p.m.) promises t9 provide an evening of fascinating en- tertainment. Forernost they dance; but dance that will be much different from what may .usually come to mind when one thinks of the ballet. American ~et Comedle is a. troupe of eight members who have toured· in all parts ·of the world. In some J)lacesthey were so popular that they were held over for three times tnelr intended engagement. !he troupe uses ballet, ja:;;z, mune and modern fonns of dance. The music is well-known classical. The . reason for the popularity of this group is its abiUty to combine dance with comic stories and sketches. They have a great reputation.· I Q:lvite you to judge for yourself this Saturday. L9ok for a review of this performance next week. .t ~. . . ........... ~ • .._...~ • .._...~ • .._.. • .._.. • .._.. .... ,._. Performing Arts Institute j Albany-T;ee;~~el ~~!:~~:,tute tor the t t • Performing Arts at the Egg in Albany is now ., accepting applications for .internships for the • spring semester, January to June, and the fall t· a ~emester, September to December I 1984. ! The internship is designed to offer teachers, t·. a college students and high school. seniors credit ' for a semester-'s work at the Institute.: • • Applications and further information may be A a obtained by calling 474-1199 or by writing to ' ' Arlene Left, Intern Program Administrator, i i. Empire State Institute for the Performing Arts, ' ' Empire State Plaza, Albany, New York 12223. • .. ,., )~...-..~-~ ........... -~ . ...-.. . ...-..~.~·--' Byl\IR.A. In the wake of all the new releases by new artiSts, there remains a carryover of a particular breed of musician. Tbe singer-songwriters who dominated throughout the 1960's have found it difficult to hold their own in the era of new wave. Some h~ve chosen to defy the trends of the industry; others have 'found that adap- tability can be profitable and fun. Jackson Brownels an artiSt who served as the model for the sing.er-songwriter. He was writing and perf()nning songs whose music was functional and whose lyrics . were expressive, revealing and powerful. On his new release. entitled ''Lawyers. In Love/' Browne has tried to strike the delicate balance between music 1that ·is powerful and beat oriented and lyrics that have meaning for · the listener. Jackson Browne is adapting, changing his identity .from an introspective guitliU\ strummer to a rocker in tune with the 80's. This. new attitude is prevalent on the \Lawyers In Love\ album and in the shows on his recent tour. The title cut left many listeners with the same feeling as they had about his last release, the single \Somebody's.Baby\ ... what's going on? Upon the release of the albwn, however, the doubts. about Browne's new image were silenced. \Lawyers In Love\ is a solid rock and roll work, packed with songs that retain lyrical vibrance, yet work well musically. \Cut It Away\ is as expressive and self-revealing as u·nion Students Entertain By JANICE C. THOMPSON Two weeks ago, there was an article written on the lack of school spirit and attendance at Cabaret. Now, two weeks have passed and there has been little. change in that department. One would suspect that the high recommendation .of Cabaret that we gave then was not taken by many of you. Yet, we will try once more, because supporting a Union tradition like Cabaret is very important. Attending a Cabaret per- formance such as the one put on by Luke Fannon and Dani Raphael offers many · ad- vantages. First and foremost, the shows are great en .. tertainment. Rick Coppola emceed last week's per- formance, inviting the audience (which filled up about half of the seats available) to tell their own ]okes. After much urging,&m Dideo got up, and clid . a humor9us Rodney Dangerfield imitation. That was followed by the show's first act, Luke Fannon, who amazed the audience with his juggling. His act was filled with variety; juggling with music and without, and with.different siZed objects (suchasa football and a billiard ball; a tomato and an egg), He seemed· very relaxed . with· the audience, inviting criticism for his mistakeS and talking - with them. Dani Raphael provided the second act to tb,e show, accompanied on piano by Steve Koebel. As always, the audience enjoyed listening to her as she beautifully sang songs by . Barbra Strelsand, Fleetwood ·Mac and Joni Mitchell. They urged 'her back on stage after she had finished her set for an encore, so she ~g \Heat- Luke Fannon performing at Cabaret last Thursday Night. wave\ by Linda Ronstadt. The entire show was fun, never boring and, a good way to spend a Thursday evening. There are other good points to Cabaret, besides the en- tertainment. It gives a different alternative for those people who are bored with the same · fraternity · parties-Skellar-Pub scene. Everyone loves a little variety, don't they? Cabaret provides an excellent op- portunity to get together with friends, to enjoy their company, to dance, and to drink the wine, beer or nonalcoholic punch that · one's ticket stub can be traded in for. It also gives talented people a chance to perform for an audience. Cabaret is always searching for new acts. So, once more, we are l.ll'ging you to find out for yow-selves bow much fun you can have for just $1.50. The Cabaret shows are better when there are a lot of people attending them, so let's see if that room can be filled to capacity tonight, alright? You won't be sorry. Massage Intensive at the Performing Arts Lof.t., 216 CenfrGI Ave., with .Mary .Jude Splegal •. Saturday, Nov. 5 and Sunday, Nov. 6 from 2-5 p.m. (both days). ne licensed 111assage therapist will teach the fundamentals of Swedish massage. Fee: $30.00 for tlie two· day session. Call 465·5503 for registrGtion information. · anything he has done since \The Pretender\ (1976). The opening cut on side two is one of the best on the album. While the lyrics of \Tender is ·the Night\ may seem somewhat shallow, the tune is excellent. There are two reasons for the ef- fectiveness. Browne's strong vocals, perhaps the best of his c~reer, the second is the presence of his band. While the pedal steel of David Lindley is sorely missed, Rick Vito's lead is an adequate substitute for the newer offerings. The rest of the band is pretty much intact; Russ Kunkel on drums is especially noteworthy on the albwn .. The album closes with \For a Rocker,\ which just might signify the type of song that Jackson Browne, the new version, is striving for. One can only wait in anticipation for his next musical move. PROGRAM IN AMERICAN MARITIME STUDIES FALL SEMESTER 1984 or SPRING SEMESTER 1985 Accredited by WILUAMS COLLEGE Taught at MUSIC SEAPORT MUSEUM ESPECIALLY FOR STUDENTS INTERESTED IN AMERICAN STUDIES BIOLOGY LITEltA TURE ECOLOGY . HISTORY PUBLICPOLICY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENTALSTUDIES OCEANOGRAPH'' The Program Offers qualified Wldergraduates the opportunity to focus one semester of their studies on our relationship to the sea. While living iJl cooperative houses at America's leading maritime museum, students take four Williams-accredited courses in . history, literature, oceanography or marine e.cology and marine p()licy. The Program. in- cludes practical instruction In boathandling, celestial navigation, boatbuilding, and Shipyard restoration, along with a twelve-day offshore reserarch trip O!l board the schooner RIV Westwart:l. A program representative will meet with students on Wed., Nov. 16 at 1:30 p.m. in the SCience and Engineering Bldg., Rm. SlOO. For in· formation see Dean William Daniels' Office, or write: Director, Williams-Mystic Program, MyslicSeaportMuseum, Inc., Mystic,..COnn. 00355

Page 12 CONCORDIENS/S, November 3, 1981 THE ARTS Eddy Grant Rocks Alumni ByARTSSTAFF' Electric Avenue was .louder than ever on Wednesday, October 26, when Eddy Grant put on a fantastic, lively per- formance in the Alumni Gym. The problem, however, was that most Union College students did not attend. Few students were there, while the crowd consisted mainly of people from the Capital District area. Never- theless, Eddy Grant gave those there, just what they wanted~ A Great Time. Every member of the band danced and performed the music with lots of action. Eddy Grant's concert lasted for two hours and he performed around12song$.AJnongthesel2 were the famous ''Electric Avenue\ and \I Don't Want to Dance.'' During Eddy's first· ~, performance of ''Electric .~ , Avenue\ he got the audience 6 · involved, and had a few people ·~ sing certain lines ft:om tile song. .a_ Eddy Grant also sang \Electric cg Avenue\ again as an encore. >- Again the participation of Union -g College students at an activity (5 was poor. It is too bad, because .a_ those of you who did not attend missed a great show. Eddy Grant performing in AI umni Gym ommunity Arts Calendar ·Theatre . Nov .1-6, 8-13, 15-20: THE GLASS MENAGERIE-Market Theatre, 111 North Pearl St., . Albany. Tuesday & Thursday &Saturday, 8 p.m. Wednesday at 2 & 8:30p.m. Sunday at 2:30 p.m. 462-4534 Nov. 4, 5, 11, 12, 18, 19: WEST SIDE STORY-RPI PlayhollSe, 8 p.m. 266-6503 Nov. 10-12, 15·19: LOOK HOMEWARD ANGEL-SUNYA Performing Arts Center, Albany, 8 p.m. 45741606 Nov.l3: GEORGE CARLIN-Proctor's. For information call382-1083 · Music •• (Jfr,q Nov. 4: RIDERS IN THE SKY-Proctor's. 8 p.m. 382-1083 Nov. 5: FACULTY SHOWCASE CONCERTO-sUNY A, Department of Music Recital Hall. 8 p.m. 457-8600 ' Dance, Nov. 5: AMERICAN BALLET COMEDIE-Proctor's. 8 p.m. 382-1083 Nov. 6: EDWARD VILLELA AND DANCERS (The Art of George Ballanchine)--The Egg, Albany. 2 p.m. 473;.3750 · .------------.-, I Important Notice to · I I All TAP Recipients: ,. I If you reported an adjustment on your TAP application to family income based on a· ~ I brother or sister in college, NYS will be sending you a letter to your home address to I g verify the info!mation. You/your parent ~ust ret~rn this Iett~r even if. the information • 1 is correct. Fatlure·to return the letter will result m automatic reductwn of your TAP I 1 award by NYS. It is advisable to make a copy of the letter :prior to returning it, for your g ~fi~. I ~~ Musical Talent By JANICE C. THOMPSON There are many people who are musically talented, who take lessons every week all .through high school, and then quit once they get to college. They enjoy their music, . but when they have to worry .about schedules, classes, grades and exams, that music quickly slides to the bottom of their priority list. Yet the ability to perform is not . something that one shotild easily let go. Ask any adult who \used to play\ and they will tell you they wjsh they had con- tinued. Any perf;ormer, from amateur to professional, can describe how val·uable musical ability is. It can en- tertain both the performer and. the people listening, and it gives one a great sense of ac- complishment. Here at Union, the Arts Dept. provides a . way for musical students to develop their talent, because th·ough studying for a bio. test or reading a hundred pages. of poli. sci. is important, studying music can be an im- portant learning experience, too. Union students can con- tinue their private music lessons, or even begin to learn, under the instruction of various adjunct Arts faculty members. Usually the lessons are from 45 minutes to ·an hour :Jong they involve a fee that i~ individQal from the student's normal school bill, andthey are worth 1/3 credit for one semester, Prof. Pola Baytelman is one such adjW1ct faculty member, She is a pianist wllo guest performs for the Albany and . Schenectady Symphonies and who teaches piano at Union. ·she :teaches lessons in nn. 105 of the Arts Bldg:, which contains two pi~:tnos. While the student sits at one piano, Prof. Bayteltnan sits at the other, ''teaching by example,\ or playing the or- chestral accompaniment to a concerto that the student plays. She requires an hour of practice a day from the stUdent. The lessons are informal and relaxed as both student and teacher work together to. per- fect a piece. The A-rts Dept. adJunct faculty instruct students on other instrwnents and ()fl voice. These faculty members are listed on the bulletin board in the Arts Dept. Office, along with their phone numbers. · If a student is interested, he or she may call them and find out' additional informati()n. The lessons are worthwhile to the serious musician, regardless of the level of his or- her musical ability. The 1984 YEARBOOK needs your COlOR . pictures from your TERM ABROAD!, Please help make this section of the yearbook gre,a:t! 1. We need to see the color pictures and have the negatives tor 1 week. 2. Submit the negativ:es and pictures in an envelope with your name, box number and telephone no. to Student Ac- tivities in Carnegie Hall. · - 3. Everything submitted will be returned and will be treat~d with care. 4. If you want to show your pictures, please bring them to the yearbook meeting on Wed. at 7 p.m., 4th floor in Carnegre Ha II. Don't forget the negatives. 5. We want some group shots, candids and scenery! 6. We need your help, otherwise there will not be a TERMS ABROAD section, especially in· color. · 7. Any questions, put a note in box 1173 or see June Glaser or Lindct Lepik by putting a message on file in Student Ac- tivities. Dea~Jine: November 9 ?pens loni(e! a play by William Inge· Nov. \ tickets: 2.50, students; 3.50 faculty tickets available in the Nett Memorial box office • - 8 p a tl 0 g R a d a N tl d: sl p: it N dj dl 01 in hi fa to PI to Sc B1 th cc ''c pr to a1i re av In D1 De -

RESEARCH. The SubcouncU on Research and Grants is now soliciting · proposals for· faculty research and . scholarship activities for · the 1983.-84 winter-spring terms only. Applications and guideliJles are available in Dealt Kaplan's Office (8100) Science and. ~ngineering Center. The deadline for submission of these appli9ati9n:;; is Friday, November 7. The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foun- dation . in two categories-- student-initiated research project.s and ',''educationally mnovative proJects\ falls on Nove~ber 7. Proposals should descrtbe work to be completed during winter-spring terms only. Proposals for student- initiated research projects must hav~ the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the .project. The proposals .should be submitted to . the Dean's Office (S100, Sc~en:ce & Engineering Building) on forms ·available there. Memb~rs of the College commun·1ty who have ''educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office . on forms· available there. Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F., are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries should be directed to :Or. ilene M. Kaplan, Associate Dean of Faculty. - INTERNSHIPS The PQbUc .Defenders Service is seeking 75-8.0 legal interns for the winter term. An intern will work .for a staff attorney as a criminal investigator, in- terviewing victims and wit- nesses and preparing reports. Interns Will have the op- portunity to . accompany at- torn~ys to ple~. ba~gaining sess10ns, pre-trtal discovery conferences and. motion hearings .. Housing assistance and fina~cial assistance may be available. Interested students should . call Ray Dennison at (202) 393·1539 or (202) .628·1200 (call collect) or write to him at the Public Defenders Serviee 451 Indiana Ave. Nw' Washington, D.C~ 20001. . ' Those who are taking ~· tenn off or thOse who are. taking ·a year off between college and law scttool should consider applymg. California senate Fellowship Pro.gram: Nine-month ~ellowship for .college graduates mterested in gaining first-hand knowledge of, and experience in, . the legislative process. Responsibilities: legislative research and bill analysis constituent casework ad: ~istrative duties. Monthly stipend: $1,250. Application de~dline: February l, 1984. Information also available in the Political Science depart- ment. CONCORDIENSIS, November 3, 1983 Pagel3 CAMPUS NEWS Northwestern Mutual Life Internship: For Juniors and seniors . seeking good paying part-time jobs with potential · fulHime career after graduation. Training sessions starting immediately. Common Cause J:Qternshlp Prognm,t: Common Cause, a nonpr?fit, nonpartisan 'Citizens' lobbying organization that works to improve the way federal and state goverrunents opera~e, is developing in- ternships for studentsto work in one of three roles: 1) Resear- cher and Writer, 2) Field Coordinator, 3) PR and Media. . Professional Internships with Cap~tal Repertory Company: Cap1ta~ Rep is providing in· temshtps to provide motivated students with an intensive and practical ,education within the context of a working professional theatre' organization. OPERATION lif.NTERPRISE · (Great forJifiterested December Graduates) AMA, the world's largest and ~-:-known organization in the field of management and education, is offering a chance f~r students to see and hear ftrst-hand from business leaders what a management career is like and how to prepare for it through two Operation Enterprise Programs beginning January 1984. The three-week program runs from January 3-27 and the four-week program runs from January 3--27. If a student chooses, he or she can earn college credit in either program. Location: Eckard College, St. Petersburg, FLA. VOLUNTEERS Students needed Wed. November 16 between 10 and 2:.00 to help diStrib11te government cheese . to the poor and elderly. Transportation supplied to local sites. Please leave your name with the Campus Ministry Office. Th.e March -of Dimes . is ~eking volunteers to help with 1ts annual MOTHER'S MARCH against birth defects. lf you are interested, please call the NorthEastern . Chapter of the March of Dimes'at 783- 9363. CLUB NEWS ATTN: All Psychology Majors Applications for membership for Psi Chi-the National Honor SQciety for Psychology-are now being accepted. The minimum requirements are: three courses in psychology, with a Psychology GPA of 3.3 .and and overall GPA of 3.0. Applications are now available in the Psych depart· ment secretarY's office. Completed applications should be sent to BOX C)966 no later than. NOV. 30. Dance Club meeting Monday, November 7 at 6:30 p.m. in Conference room A, Carnegie. All Welcome!! Anorexia-BuUmJa Self Help Group meets every 1st and 3rd Monday of each month from 7-!.9 p.m. in the lower level of Silliman Hall. All are welcome confidentiality upheld. ' SCHOLARSHIPS If you are planning to attend graduate school next year you may be interested in applying for a. scholarship or fellowShip. The Financial Aid Office has information on graduate awards in the following areas: applied physical scienceJ electrical_ energy (women only), math, osteopathic medicine, the Christian ministry, and science and engiDeerlng through both the National Science Foundation and NASA. I~ addition, information is a~aila~le on awards to graduate mmor1ty students in law dentistry, management and political science. . In~erested students should mq~e at the Financial Aid Off1ce.

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, November 3, 1983 CAMPUS NEWS MOVIES The Film Committee Presents: \Sophie's Choice\ starring: Meryll Streep. November 4, 5, 6 at 7 and. 10 in SS016. $1. \Fiddler on the Roof'' Tuesday November 8 at 7 and 11i in SS016. $1. HELP WANTED · Babysitter needed on -I'nesday and Thursday from 2- 5:30 at $1.75-hour. Call 393-2546. Student..Qunberland Farms. ·Curry & Ft. Hunter Rd. P~T 4-12 week nights and weekends. Minimtun wage. Please contact Valerie at 355-9943. Lookillg for student (female). Student may live in and take care of individual recuperating .fr()m stroke (ambulatory). Location Rotterdam near Shop- 0-Rama. Call after 5 PM Collect alld ask for Mr. James Hannay a-c 617- 256-09115. Need tele-marketing representative PaT hours. Two different shifts 1-5PM & 5-9 PM Monday through Friday. Saturday 9AM to 12 PM. Hourly rate plus bonus & Commission. D11ties-Settling appointments for outside representatives. R.J. Grosso Inc. 356 Troy-schenectady Rd. Latham, N.Y. 12110 Please contact Elizabeth Crawmer at 185--3712 between 1 & 3 PM Monday through Friday. Possible employment on a part-time basis only in aut9mobile (mechanical, in· stallation, customer contact), sale$ floor (inside and on road), clerical and package handling. Please apply between 12-5 Mon.- Fr. Sears, 166 Erie Blvd. 2nd floor. Equal Opportunity em- pl()yer. Students: Our National Law Finn is expanding into the area. ·In November we will have openings for a Computer Operator (IBM system 34), 2 Investigator Trainees, and 2 Off.ice Clerks (filing, light typing). No legal or prior work experience required. ·These are part-time positions and the hours can be arranged to meet class ~;~chedules. NOTICE TO APPLICANTS To receive consideration and arrange .interview, every question MUST be answered in detail, typed or printed in ink on a single sheet of paper in the following order. No phone calls. 1. Name 2. Present Address (no P.O. Box Numbers) include zip code 3. Social Security Number 4. Telephone 5. In Case of Emergency Notify 6. Address, Telephone, Relationshio. (:Parent, Guar- dian, Sp.ouse) of No. 5 7. Marital Status 8. Date of Birth 9. Work Experience (please only list the jobs you've had which directly relate to the position you are applying for) 10. Education (present and any future plans) 11. Hobbies, Special Interests, Awards, Comments, etc. Use back of sheet if additional space iS needed. Send to: Kennedy & Freeman, 5395 S. W. 88th Street, Suite J, Miami, FL-33156-2125. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER. Students interested in telephone sales-evenings. Good cash pay. 2 blocks from campus on Union St. For more in- fonnation call Kathy or Bill at 374-1492 or 37~372, Babysitter-one day or one half-day a week. Four year old and two year old. Near campus. $2.00 an hr. Call 382-2066. Part-tjme . employment-- Cleaning for Tri-Delta Sorority. 11·2 or 5-8. $3.35 per hr. with meals. Please contact Kara Miller or Cheryl Woods at 370- 6897. Exped.itor office clerk needed ~t the Electrical Supply Distribution Center. Typing CLASSJFJEDS skOUs and good phone contact required. Job offered through An apartment is needed for this summer and next year. winter and spring terms for Contact Donna ~olleci~o at the · male student. Please call 37~ General Electric mam plant. 6729 if you have any in· Phone 385-0429. formation. NEW Rock-n-Roll Pizza Pub presents: Pizz~, Etc. Now Featuring: Hot Sausage Subs .. $2.00 Pizza Bagels • .40-.90 Hot Pretzels • .40- 3/1.00 This Week's Specials: Delivery Special 370-6060 One ftree topping or two tree medium sodas With this ad. (One · ad per pizza). Monday-Friday: F.ree bag of chips with any · sandwich 1 : 30-11 : 30 p.m. 1: 30-12:30 a.m. Open Sun., Mon., Wed., Thul\s. Tues., Fri., Sat. Dutchman's Reservations taken Mon-Thurs. Night I Normal business hours only! Ride needed to Fort Lee or New York City this Friday afternoon, Nov. 4th. Good company and share expenses. Please call 381-4457. FOR SALE: SanyoSP 40 High Power brand new 4 inch Door Mount Coax Speakers. $40-Call Jodi 381-1644. Typing for students. KnQlts medical terminology. Please. contact Anita at 355-3239. Typing for student$. Please ·contact 346ft5104 Niskayuna area. Typing for students. Please contact 370-5222. Mt. Pleasant area. SPEAKERS Oil November 3, 1983 at 3:45 P.~., Room 312, Bailey Hall, UniOn College, William Wallace, Chairman and chief Executive Officer, EBASCO Services, Inc. will speak· on Management of an Engineering-Cons trnction Company and Its Projects in the 1980s. - United Campuses against Nuclear War and The Campus· Ministry office presents ''Peace and Defense: A West German Pen)pedlve.'' Gerbar:d Voelirlnger, West Berlin protestantcpastor, aetive in the German Peace Movement will be the g\lest speaker and also \Oil tile Brink\ a slide show on t11e European .Missile .situation ~ill be shown on Thursday, November 3rd at 4:30 p.IQ.. m Strauss Lounge, Union College. Frlday, November 4-li'riday night dinner and services .in Kosher Kitchen followed ·.by discussion and lecture on ''ISRAEL AS A · PEACE MOVEMENT\ by Moshe Avni. Services, 5.: 30; I>innert 6·; 00? Lecture., 7: 00; Dinner··$5; Lectur~Free. Sponsored by JSU~ Monday, Nov. 7-.Avri Fischer will spe~k on \ISRAEL AFTER BEGIN\ in SS115 at 8.: .30. Sponsored . by Students for Israel of JSU. ·Wednesday, November 9--Dr. Yoav Vardi, a labor;•Sociologist at Tel Aviv. University, will speak · on \LABOR AND ISRAEL'S CURRENT ECONOMIC CRISIS~' in StrallSs Lounge at 8:30. Sponsored by Students for Israel of JSU. Union College Philosophy Dep~ent is pleased to, an· nounce·; Friday, November 4, · 1983, Mary Vetter~g will speak on An~ogeoy at 3:.30 p.m. in Humanlties Bldg. in R(Jom 213. Rec.eption ' immediatelY following. in the Jilllttanities Lounge CollOQuia are open to the public. For further in• formation call . Marianne Snowden-37o-6376~ On Thursday, November -17, 1983 at 7 p.m., Hospitality House wtU celebrate its 13th an: niversary and graduation witb a , dinner at The Sign of The Tree restaurant in the Empire State Plaza. The guest spea]{er, Lenore Gittis, is . the . AT· TORNEY ·IN-CHARGE of the JUVENILERIGHTSDIVISION -for the LEGAL AID SOCIETY in New York City. PERSONA-LS . To the Inconsider-ate Student Body of Union - College, apd especially to those people who have not written-you know who you are,. Mangia Merde e Mortite!! - To our new piedges (SDT): Congratulations! Get psyched for a great pledgeship. You gU.ys are great t Love, your sisters Pre-Season- Opener Saturday Nov. 5th· -7:30pm UNION vs NO. ADAMS TICKETS: $LOO with Union College I.D. Tickets can be purchased through any Varsity Athlete on Campus or at the Box Offic;e at Achilles Rink. Benefit Game for the Friends of Union Athletics AnENTION GRADUATES Orange Motors has a College Gradvate Finance Plan No Previous Credit Required Very Little Down No Co·M~ker Necessary For Details & Appointment Call Orange Motors 799 Central Ave. Albany, NY 12206 Ask for Joe Bruno or Vince Cristaldi 489-5~14 Contact'locally: Beth swartz J1 (518) 465·1703 GUARANTEE: Score In llle lap 25% · ar .l•ke lh.e nen ADe• aHI COUrtC FREE. S\or' , In cooperation with The National Center for Educational Testing. Inc ..... - • - 1- 0:: >- .0 0 .... 0 .s:::. a. Cc se de ta1 thl o•• so co Cr de~ for lost rna: the the onl) The mu< drul pom WI Skid plod Jim: scor: the t man Sher adde in a Davi en de Steg Sher: adde piled recm victo was four chrn.E On trave -face half I build play Berni shotf scori.t game sidelil

I- ll: >- .0 0 - 0 .s:: c. CONCORDIENSIS, November 3, 1983 PagelS Athlete of the Week, ·By DREW HURLEY SportsS~ Athlete ~of the week is awarded to Brian· Cox for his efforts in Union's 31~14 win over the Epbinen from William· _ stown. Brimt is .a 6'1\ 215 lbs .. defensive end :for the 7.0 grid- der$ who are now ·ranked number four in the coUntry. This past Satur®,y was easily Cox's best performance of the season as he led · the way defensively registering six solo tac~es, two assisted ones, and three and a half sacks. Prior to the game, Cox was certain that he . woudl get to Eph Quar- terback B. J. Connely, and he did. On the se~I!On, nuntber ninety-nine has recorded totals of 19tackles, eleven assists, and a team leading 9lh sacks. · The junior economics major hails from the :Say State where he led }liS Norwood High School team to a league championship and -to an impressive high school division one super bowl victory,· · Cox, a brother of Delta ·upsilon, is a two year letter · winner and starter for the o •• hope for playoff ber_th, Gamet machine. Best of luck to the Dutchmen who are on the road this weekend at Mid- dlebury. Brian Cox Soccer Stands it 9-2-2 By SAM GIFFORD Sports Staff .. The Union College Men's soccer team suffered a a game against Colgate. In the second half the Dutchmen raised their level of play. Sheridan and Zeifang teamed winning streak, the Dutchmen should have been sky high for this one, but from the start there was a lack of intensity and hustle. · Rochester got on the board first as one of the for- wards broke through the defense and· drilled ·a shot through the wind and rain past Harris for a 1-0 lead. Midway through the half, Bernie Zeifang headed a ball to Jim Monks who in -- turn headed it into the Rochester goal. The score remained 1-1 until with only 31 seconds remaining in the half, Rochester stole a poor pass d~ep _ .in 'Qnion territory and drilled the ball from 35 yards out over Harris' head for a 2-1 lead. Co-Captain Bernie Zeifang blasts by a defender as forward Bob C_ral'ldel Hooks on. Soccer defeated Skidmore 9-0. That goal could have ham- pered Union's momentum, but Co-Captain Dave Sheridan brought Union even again with a shot from the right side of the goalmouth past the Yellowjacket netminder. However that was all the Dutch- men could muster as the offense repeatedly faUed to connect and the defense finally collapsed. Midway through the half Rochester scored the eventual game-winner with 17 seconds left they scored the clincher to the delight of the home crowd. devastating setback in it's quest for an NCAAplayoff berth. A 4-2 loss to Rochester last Friday may have cost the Dutchmen the chance to show the rest of the state that football isn't the only sport at Union in the fall. The rest ·Of the week proved much better as th~ squad drubbed two less talented op- ponents. Trounce Skidm.m e Wednesday afternoon against Skidmore, the Dutchmen ex- ploded into the. record bOoks. Jimmy Monks opened the scoring with his eighth goal of the season, breaking the fresh· man scoring record set b r Dave Sheridan in 1980. Monks later added to his total when he poked in a ·second half score. Jay· Davis also played well and ended up with. two goals. Pete Stegemann, Bernie Zeifang, Sheridan, and Tom Cutter also added goals as the Dutchmen piled up a 9-0 win to set the record for the largest margin of victory in the school's history. It was Cutter's first goal in his four year career for the Dut- chmen. Down Vassar On Monday, the team travelled to Vassar College to face the Brewers. In the firS' ~ half the Dutchmen could onJ o:: build a 1-0 lead as they failed t·, play up to their potential, Bernie Zeifang redirected a shot from Doug Wilk to open the scoring. It was Wilk's first game since a sprained ankel sideliiled bbn two weeks ago in up to make the score 2-o. Soon after Sheridan's goal, Wilk blasted a shot into the right lower corner of the goal to top off thf3 scoring for Union. Then wit\t less than a minute re .m.aining in goalie Mike Harris' fourth shutout bid of the season, Vassar scored on a. direct kick from 25 yards out. Rochester The biggest game of the week, perhaps the season, took place in Rochester on Friday night.· Rochester showed up with upset on their minds. HUildreds of fans turned out in the blustering weather to cheer on their homestanding · Yellowjac~ets. Riding in on an eight. game The 2-1 record of the week leaves the Dutchmen aill-2-2 for the season and with a win yesterday over Siena the squad would wind Up with an im- pressive 10-2-2 record. This leaves. the choice up to the selection committee as to which four upstate teams make the NCAA's. Union still has an outside chance, but if they are overlooked, they will most likely host the ECAC tour- nament in November~ Fr. boater Victor Davis attempts to score from in dose. Union soccer is looking for a state tourney bid. SPORT \ SpOrts Talk With SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff Polling of boQkies across the United States has shown that far more gambling Americans place money on football than any other sport. Most of the money bet on football games is placed on professional teams rather than college teams. Sure the number of handshake bets placed on big rival college games continues to involve a great number of rah-rah fans across the country, but why do so few of these :People who bet on the NFL avoid the colleges on their weekly line cards? The biggest single reason has to be the comparative levels of predictability in NFL and college football games each week. When people around the sports world talk about this problem of predicting college football games they always seem to mention the word in- tangible. One of the biggest intangibles to be found in a game of college football in comparison to an NFL contest is the emotion that surrounds the tYPical college game. Often during a week of .practice players who have not per- formed well or not played much during previous games can rise to a particular occasion and find themselves in the line up for Saturday's contest with a blink of an eye. Scenarios like this never seem to evolve in the pro game. For one, college teams can basically carry an unrestricted number of players on their rosters while the professional organizations are limited in the number of players they can carry throughout the season. Just look in our own back yard, AI Bagnoli's staff carries over 80 players on his division III squad. Emotion also comes into play more often in college than in the pro ranks due to the psyching techniques used by coaches and players alike during college. Players often talk to the press about the fact that they would, \run through a wall\ for their particular coach. A love affair, of tenns, grows between many college coaches and their players. Only a few NFL players ever talk in these terms about their professional mentors. The names that do rise to the top of the cream are the Landrys, Nolls and .Shulas~ In comparison, the number of college coaches lauded by their players are far too many to list here. Both Nebraska and Union have proven to have been the two most predictable college teams in the nation. The reason? Both squads outman their opponents each time they hit the field. Missouri gave Nebraska a scare earlier in the season but the depth .of the Cornhuskers roster made the difference to propel them past Missouri. The Dut.cbman 's toughest contest this .fall to date was the battle with Trinity on the road in Hartford. Both squads seemed to play even up forthe first half but, as with the Cornhuskers, Unions depth in all positions gave Bagnoli the chance to keep quality players fresh by resting them every other series, where the starters for Trinity bad to carry the entire burden on their own backs. In recent weeks a circle has been evolving throughout Eastern Div, III foot ban ranks. Teams like the powerful Saints of St. Lawrence and Panthers of Middlebury have lost to such lackluster teams as Colby and Rochester. The only way that this circle will be completed is if the powerful Dutchman slip against either Middlebury or Hamilton. One has to think the chances of that are just as slim as the Cornhuskers. getting knocked off in the near future. Corner of State St. & Erie Blvd. • 371-1515 The \IN\ Place for Haricutting and Styling at the right ~ price since 1912 Just ask tile guys of the Football, Rugby, Lacrosse, Basketball and Baseball teams. -ALL WINNING HAIRCUTS- ~ 10 FREE WIN~s~~.·~ with any order of 10 w1ngst)~~ Or More Not Valid on Specials Buffalo Style Chicken Wings 393-0164 uw e Specialize\ HOURS: Mon.-Thurs. 11 a.m.-1 a.m_ Fri. and Sat. 11 a.m.-2 a.m. Sun.12 p.m.-Midnight WING WAGON 827 McClellan St., · Schenectady, New York Delivery $1.00 Every Hours-6 p.m.-Midnight

r Ol \- Cl.l .a c Cl.l Ill 0 ~ .~ c c 0 rn )o. ..Q .e 0 .,e Q. CONCORDIEN$/S, November 3, _1983 u.foce Panthers in Middlebury - Dutchmen Defeat Williams; Fourth In Co:nnt~y By LOU GEORGE Sports Staff The Dutchmen. continued their unbeaten streak this past weekend by steamrolling the Ephmen of Williams 31-14. This win preserved a [3-game winning streak that is second in the nation behind the University ofNebraska. The Dutclunen are now only two wins away ·from gaining a bid to the NCAA Div. . III football playoffs that lead to the A.mos Alonzo Stagg Bowl. Currently they are ranked fourth in the nation. AI Bagnoli used a variety of weapons against Williams with five different players scoring, all in the first half. The Dut- chmen jumped out to a 31-7 halftime lead and the Garnet defense stopped any chance of a comeback; something this Williams team is noted .for. The defensive wall was as strong as ever Saturday allowing no yardage on the ground, in fact, Williams compiled 286 yards thro11gh th_e air and a minus 54 yards rushing. The tough ground defense was led by junior Brian Cox who was on B.J. Connelly's back (Williams Quarterback) most of the af,. ternoon. Also defensively Len Huttner and Joe Bogan made two highlight interceptions to lead the defensive secondary. Offensively, Union played one strong half of football. Union scored first on a long, time consuming drive of 16 plays in eight minutes, the drive was ended on fll1lback Steve Olsen's one-yard burst. Williams came right back by passing the ball effectively and tied the score on a Connelly to McCarthy 12 .. yard pass. Union took the lead for good on a Stewart pass to fleetfooted wide rereiver Winston Britton. Williams' Bill Sperry made the mistake ·of trying to intercept the ball, this gave Britton the edge to turn a 15 yard curling pattern into a 56 Defensive sta.lwarts Tim Howell (58) and Alex Rita (27) prepare to Qring down a Williams runner. The Dutchmen defeated Williams 31-14. yard. touchdown pass. On Union's next possession Bagnoli bad trouble getting the ball in the end zone so he opted for a Greg Sticka 28 yarg field goal to increase the Dutclmien lead to 17-7. After an exchange of punts Union' sGeorge Capozzi broke a fullback. trap for a 45- yard sprint to the end zone; a sprint. that he seldom loses unless someone with the speed of Winston Britton is in pursuit. The Dutehmen~s final score came in the last two minutes of play when Stewart found Rich Kellaher open in the corner of the end zone. This touchdown was the result of a Brian Cox sack and a f1,1n1ble recovery by Tom Plungis, who has a knack for picking. up loose fumbles. Bill Huttner led the offensive machine with another banner performance collecting 128 yards on 25 carries. - ' This Saturday the Dutchmen face the Panthers of Mid- dlebury College (4-2). Union's high powered offense which is beginning to gel will face a defense led by nose tackle John Good and defensive back Neil Ringquest. Two years ago the Dutchmen lost a mud bowl contest 28-0, but last _year the Garnet gained revenge with a 28-0 victory on the astroturf. If the Dutchmen continue to play the caliber of football they have been playing they should continue their win streak. With so much riding on the last two Lambert Bowl Poll \The B.est in the East\ 1. Union 2. Hofstra 3. Carnegie Mellon 4. Westminster 5. W.P.I. 6. Susquehanna 7. St. John's 8. Gettysburg 9. Salisbury St. 10. M~ntclair 7-0 8-0 8-0 7-0 6-0 5-0-1 n 7·1 7·0·1 6·1·1 Harriers Shpw Improvement By DAVE MARIN Sports Staff The Union men's cross country team placed 17th at the IC4tA's in Boston Tuesday. The whole teain was excited. \We were. flyiDg'' says Mike Reed who improved his time by over llf.! minutes. Everyone ran well according to Russ Ebbets. Though Union placed the same as last year, Coach Ebbets noted, \This year's race was a lot more difficult. They com- bined divisions.\ Bill McRoberts placed 43 with a time of 25:31, improving by a minute from. last year. Chris O'Donnell (20:02), Bob Stenard (26:13), Tim Orcutt {27:03) and Mike Reed (27:13) an scored for Union, improving by 30-90 seconds and Marc Cross also competed finishing in 27:58. Looking to States next Satur- day, Tim Orcutt said, \We were just fast dudes running out of Union. We're psyched to go to Buffalo.\ This past Saturday, Amy WalSh went to Hamilton to compete in the NYSAIAW (New York State Association of Intercollegiate Athletics for Women) state championships. Despite the snow and cold weather, she Clocked in at 20:08 for the tough 3.1 mile course, ranking 28th in the state. She will compete in the NCAA qualifiers on November 12th at Cortland State. On October 23, the men's varsity cross-country team finished fourth in the Capital District Meet, dropping · to Siena, RPJ, and Albany State. In the JV race, Bob Stenard led the harriers to a third place finish behind RPI and Siena. Stenard's impressive second place finish in 27:41 (on a 5.05 mile course) was followed by Mike Reed's outstaning eighth place in 28:38. Steve Black had the most improved race of the day, taking off a minute from his previous time to run 30:05. In the varsity race, the lead runner for Union was Bill McRoberts, he finished ninth in 26:24, followed by Marc Craw, whose strong race brought him a time of28:03. Tim Orcutt and Chris O'Donnell did not race, resting up for the championship season. , In the women's race, Amy Walsh showed her excellence as she ran 19:28 for. the 5km (3.1 mile) course, placing fourth followed by Jenny Snover, Judy Steinhardt, and Marianne madik. This was a non-scoring race for the women. The men,s JV team competed last Saturday in the Albany Invitational meet on the 4.25 mile course. Scores were, in order, Dave Friedman, Mark Gagnon, Pete Granger, Andy Hodgkins and Steve Black. Ahead for Union: The men will travel to states at the Univ. of Buffalo on November 5. NCAA qualifiers are ·at Cortland State on November 12. Amy Walsh will compete there, as well. SPORTS HAPPENINGS Nov. 3-10 SCOREBOARD FOOTBALL (7-0) Union31 Williams 14 varsity Foofball Nov. sat Midd.lebury 1:30 X-Xountry Nov. 5 State Meet (M) ECAC Meet (W) Volleyba II Nov. 3 Russell Sage, oneonta, 7 :oo Rugby Nov. sat Albany Law 1 :00 WOMEN'S SOCCER (4-8) Vassar 3 Union 0 Albany St. 4 Union 2 MEN'S SOCCER (9-2-2) Rochester 4 Union 2 Union 3 Vassar l Union 9 Skidmore o RUGBY (2·3) Union 14 Albany St. 6 I Garnet offensive personnel Dan Stewart <n and George Capozzi executing the optioh play. Capozzi broke one for 45 y.ds. and six points against the Ephs. Stewart is currently the top-rated quarterback among the 14 Upstate New York teams. games of the season ·one can bet that Coach AI BagrlQli will have Sco~e by .period'= . Wllllam5 7 ·e e 7-14 Union l4 .1~ 0 0-31 U. ·Olsen, 1. run (Slick~. kick) W - McC~rthy, 12,. p~$$ from Connolly (Chapman, klckJ U ··Britton, 56, pess. from Slr4'art (Stl.cl<a, kiCk) U - Sticka, 28, field goal . U ·Capozzi. 45, run tSticka, kick) U- Kellaher, 5, pa~~ from Slewerl (Sticka, kick) · - w -.Hicl<,man, 17, pa$s from Morris •(Ch•P· m•n, kick) STATISTICS Fir.t·downs R u~hes·yard1 Pa•slng yardi Passes .Return• yard• Punts aver aye Fumbles losf Penallies·yardl William5 UlliOII 19 17 34--54 51·732 286 109 2H8·2 7·1~ 19. 60 7-33.7 1·29.0 1 2 648 6·50 his pla;yers playing at the top of their games. NCAA Division HI Poll 1. Augustana (.1 L) 2.Ct~rnegie-Mellon (PA) 3. Hofstra {NY> 7-0 . 8·0 8-0 7-0 7-l · 4. Union (NY) 4. Wisconsin River F.alls 6. Salisbury St. <MD) 7. Occidental (CA) 7. Wittenberg COH) 9. Susquehanna< PA) 10. Elmhurst (IL) 10. Montclair (NJ) 7-()-1 6-i 6-l 6·0·1 l-1 6-1·1 * Not~: The NCAA Poll is . determ\ined by a committee of coaches and athletic direc- tors. Th~ Lambert Bowl Poll is chosen l:lr sports writer.s. . bany State defenders prevent Senior Kyle Woodman from breaking th~s run ih Union's 14-6 victory. Ruggers Romp By PHIL WESTERMAN Sports Staff Last Saturday, the Union College Rugby Football Club~ played its best game of the season thus far defeating ·· Albany State 14-s:· ''We dominated the entire game,\ smiling co-captain. John Tiern~y stated after the game. The weather was perfect for rugby, a cool fall afternoon, and the team seemed to have a new life coming off two consecutive road defeats. Both the serum and the line played tremert~ dously, overpowering and out- running .the inferior Albany St. squad. The scoring bpgan in the first half on a dazzling- 40..yard· try ~un by out~ide center R-ob IsraeL The extra-point kfck was bobbled and Albany ended up with the ball. After half-time, Union came out and scored two more trys and converted an extra-point attempt for a total of 14 points. Scoring for the Dutchmen .were senior Steve Cole and Sophomore Dave Beal. Albany State scored once in the second half , to prevent a shutout. Overall, the serum played t!Ieir best'game aU year, and the line was simply stupendous. The B game brought more highlights into the Ruggers season. Sophomore Tim RU!Jly scored three consecutive trys and pl~y.ed a flawless game. Fine performances were eXhibited in both games by John Tierney, Pete Ladd, Ed Hart, · Gene Gas, John Friski, Mike Katz and Dave Beal. Unioq's recotd now stand$ at 2-3 and .they hope t.o improve it this Saturday when they tak~ · oiJ.. Albany Law, .in Albany .. ·· ~. >- ..0 .e 0 .c Q. 0 n F p \ b p h \ p tl sl A p d sl tl h ir tl S, A \' a: H Cl p: V\ c a A, \I ot Ul \ \ \~ d~ hi rE aJ .tJ:J \l ~ u rE tll al CC tu G hl -

>- .:.:: Ill .... 0 >- ... ID· 0 aJ c 0 0 ..., 0. >- ...0 0 .... 0 J:: 0. i. CXUI, No~ 9 Members of the Environmental Col:loquivm speaking on the Role of Unions-and Minority G·roups in Environm_entallssues. York November 1 0, 1983 \Speaks Out of Line\ By AARON M. TOFFLER Staff On Thutsday · night, . November 3, t~e sixth ill a series of discussions conceming envir-onmental issues was given in the Social Sciences building -of Union. The colloqui-um gathered Lillie McLaughlin, First Vice President of the Albany branch of the NAACP; Bob Redlow, Regional Manager for Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union; and Ed Bloch, International Representative for United Electrical Workers. Along with them was famous folk singer and · environmentalist Pete Seeger. The topic at hand was, \The Role of Unions and Minority Groups in Environ~ mental Issues.'' Seeger began the meeting with his own definition of an environmentalist. \An en• vironmentalist,\ he said, \is anyone who tries to improve the conditions of his life.\ He also noted that environment in- cludes the car you drive, the house you live in, t~e bed you sleep in, and the air you breathe. As an en- vironmentalist, Seeger has been instrumental iil the cleaning up of the Hudson River and has used his singing to convey the message that the environment needs to be cleaned up. the 500 workers who contracted the disease, 169 died and were buried in a nearby field. McLaughlin also cited Gati Tackles Human Rights Lillie McLaughlin was next to speak. She shocked the audience with statistics and stories about black workers in many different industries. For instance, in 1930 in a town called Gaullie Bridge, 5,000 black workers were hired to drill a tunnel through a mountain of silica dust. What the workers were not told was that exposure to this dust could lead to silicosis, a lung disease which causes severe shortness of breath and possible death. Of statistics, such as 15 percent of the black work force cannot work because of job related injuries. She backed up her assertion that black workers get the dirtiest jobs, with two specific examples. In the steel industry, the most dangerous area to work is the coke ovens. Although blackis comprise only 22 percent of steelworkers, they are 90 percent of the coke oven operators. The same is true in the rubber industry where compounding and mixing is the highest risk area. Again, tbough blacks are only 14 percent of the rubber industry's work force, 60 percent of the personnel in compounding and mixing are black. McLaughlin also forwarded statistics that showed that even white collar blacks are worse off than their white coun- terparts. For every white that suffers from stress or anxiety headaches, there are 2.6 blacks in the same position. These and other statistics suggest that blacks are given the dirtiest, By GAYLE ROSENFELD News Editor On November 2, at 8 p.m. in old chapel; Amnesty Inter- national sponsored a lecture by Professor Charles Gati of the political science department. \Why human rights should not be the center of U.S. foreign policy/' was the_topic. · Gati commenced hls talk with his main theme of the evening, \Even nwnan rights ought to be pursued very carefully and there are many times when it should not be pursued at all.\ Although this notion may have proven distprbing to sorne in- dividuals, it is one Gati sub- stantiated quite clearly. Gati then questioned, \SJ:lould human rights be a top priority in the official foreign policy of the United States?\ He an- swered, \No.\ \All too many Americans,\ continued Gati, \have believed that the United States has no other business in the world but to promote values associated with human rights.\ He believes this an unfortunate conclusion made by such prominent individuals as Woodrow Wilson and Ji:inmy Carter. Even Ronald Reagan is a promoter of human rights and American values. Through his \democracy project,\ Reagan has attempted \to make the world safe for American-style democracy,\ said Gati. However, it is undeniablethat other nations have not and undoubtedly will not accept this ''American-style democracy.'' \How come,\ Gati asked, \other states, other peoples don't opt for our values ... of human rights?\ The fact remains that America's values are not everyones values. With -this in mind, Gati delivered \five arguments why it would be very unrealistic for the United States to commit its resources to the spreading . of the values ' of human rights abroad.\ These arguments comprised the bulk of· hi~$ lec- ture. · Beginning with a lesser point, Gati noted, ''the very concept of human rights is unclear.\ Americans hold political rights, economic needs, and equal opportunity high on the totem pole of importance as human rights. Also, there exists an \effort on the part of the United States,,_, said Gati, ''to safeguard the rights of minorities in different parts of the world\ as in Romania and Pakistan. The United States disdains racial and religious discrimination such as what presently exists in South Africa. Americans also profess the \right to organize political unions as in Poland,\ continued Gati. All of these rights are held dear to Americans. However, Americans must consider the hierarchy of values involved. Which value is more important? ·Should the U.S. overlook the lack of one right if another important right exists in a coilntry? If so, which right must prev.ail? ''Making choices is unavoidable-,\ said Gati. Nevertheless, \Making the choices is something that the promoters of human rights are unwilling to make and have never made and unfortunately that makes it politically not particularly feasible,\ con- tinued Gati, \to go ahead and implement their recom- mendations.\ Gati's second point was that \there is an element of cultural arrogance among those who suggest that our val'!les ought to be· implemented globally.'' Also, ''the same people who say that the United States ought not be a global policeman very clearly argue that we Should be global preachers.\ These people desire to tell the world how to live. As it now stands, there exist only two dozen or so functioning democracies in the world. With the exception of at least Japan and Israel, these democracies are either in Western Europe ·or North America. Therefore, in a. United Nations membership of 160 nation's, only about 15 percent of these countries are democracies. This is a startlihg fact when viewed in hard numbers such as these, but the truth remains that ''the number of democracies in the world is declining not increasing and it's never been any other way,\ said Gati. Also, \most countries in the world through most of their history have never known anything likedemocracy.'' Gati used the effects in South Vietnam and Iran to further Ulustrate his point here. In both South Vietnam and Iran areas, the U.S. helped to oust one dictator while allowing an even worse despot to ruie. Therefore, these two countries, added ,Gati, should put a question mark in your head about the United States throwing its weight abound to make these countries more open, more democratic, more · responsive to the needs and demands of the people.\ In essence, \Our values are not universal and most people and most states in the world don't follow our values,\ said Gati. \Worse than that from the point of view of American policy, if we press our values on others we may end up with con- sequences which are far worse than what we had before.\ This is something to think about. Thirdly, Gati questioned \how we're going to implement a hwnan rights policy?\ By international standards, forcing ourselves on other countries is wrong. Leverage such as economic means, war in- tervention, threats, and even mobilization have and can be used, but there is a problem even here. \We (the U.S~) don't have the means of im- plementation to create a world in which American values predominate,'' noted Gati. Economic sanctions have never really worked well. With- drawing an ambassador is incorrect procedure for then a valuable information source has been lost. At this stage, Gati reiterated the words of John F. Kennedy in saying \We're only 6 percent of mankind.'' The U.S. just doesn't have the energy, \power or the right even to impose ourselves on others,\ said Gati. \We have the problem of the Continued on page 2 Continued on page I On the evenings of Wednesday, November 2nd and Thursday, November 3rd, twenty-.four simultaneous telephone conversations occurred in the Banquet Room of Carnegie Hall. What was this mysterious occasion? It was the First Annual Fall Student Phone· a·thon. Don Petis, Director of the Annual Fund, Debbie MacFail, Director of Annual Giving Programs, and the eight·man student committee, chaired by senior Karen Greaves, believed that staging a fal-l phone·a~thon would enable the College to begin seeking pledges from alumni and parents at an early date. This would in· crease the chance of the pledges being sent to Union during this fund year, as alumni and parents will have between now and June to make their donations. The Phone·a-thon consisted of twelve two-man teams. Over the course of the two nights, $15,383 was raised by the students. Both the student turnout ·and the funds raised proved outstanding for a first-time event. Prizes are awarded for the teams who raise the most money, the most new pledges, and the most increased pledges. However, as it now stands, Petis and MacFail have not figured out who the win· hers of the three kegs will be, but will know by next week. Laurl Kaplan WoOdrow Wilson Schola~ Named, p. 3 Final Exam Schedule, pp. 16-17

Pt1ge 2 CONCORDJENSIS~ November 10, 1983 Minority Affairs . . Committee To Benefit All >- ;:,(, Ill - 0 \.. Ill co c: 0 -, >- ,0 0 +- 0 J:: C, Dean Willard Roth believes \everyone will profit \ from the tor· mation of committee on minority affairs Professors Named The English Department is delighted to announce the ap- pointment of two distinguished scholar-teachers as the first holders of the newly created Thomas Lamont Visiting Professorship. Geoffrey Ashe will do so during the winter term, and J aroslav Pelikan will do so during the spring term~ Geoffrey Ashe, a British scholar, has published books about medieyal religion, history, literature, and myth. He writes also aoout Whitman and Ghandi while contributing regularly to journals such as The New Statec;man and U.S. on the importance of tradition. Recently he was profiled by The New Y~rker magazine and interviewed by Studs Terkel for National Public Radio. Professor Pelikan will be delivering primary lectures in English 52: Literature of the Middle Ages in the spring term with Professor Anne Higgins. In addition to guest lectures for that course, he will contri,bute t.o Shakespeare after 1600, Literature of the Renaissance, and Milton. Through the Lamont By DOUG LANOON Editor•ln..Chief President ·Morris has .established a committee to study minority affairS at Union, and to serve as an adVisory group on issues related to minorities. Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas 1Y Andrea, who will be convening the group and acting as administrative leader, explains. that there is a \con- cern for support available for minorities\ on campus, and the committee is designed' to ex- pedite and give advice on such matters. The main goals of the administration in developing this group is tQ recrUit capable minority students and make Union accessible to them. D'Andrea ,points out that recruitment not only helps in<Uviduals, but benefits the college community in general. \There are very strong educational reasons for having a heterogeneous community.\ Presently, enrollment of un- derrepresented minorities at Union comprises less than five percent of the student population, an unrealistic model of this nation. One reason minority students are not attracted to Union, D'Andrea befives, is that they see few minorities currently in attendance. He sees a \value in recognizing faces~' for these prospective students. Dr. Willard Roth, associate dean of undergraduate .studies, who will serve on the com- mittee, adc:{s that \whatever your social position, it is ex- tremely important that we increase minority population to have accurate representation of the environment.\ Union is not creating a special advantage for minorities, Roth stresses. This program is designed so everyone at the college will profit from it, he said. The key to this committee, according to Roth, will be its concentration on ''un- derr~presented\ .minorities, rather than focus on all groups in society that . consider themselves minorities. Blacks, Hispanics, mainland Puerto Ricans and Native Americans are represented by smaller percentages at Union than in this nation as a whole. There has never · been any racial ex:clusion practiced at Union, Roth said, but in the last decade the percentage of minority students has remained about the same. He n()tes that the objectives of this committee are \perfectly consistent with the history of this College.\ Page •one of the 1983-84 Union catalog reads, \Union's founders were detennined to avoid the narrow sectarianism characteril~tic of earlier American colleges; today, Union is one of the oldest nondenominational colleges in the country.'' No quotas or target numbers of mmority students have been set. The two admini&trators agree that accessibility is the key function of this conurdttee. D'Andrea also p6ints out that the group can serve a support and advice function to students wIt h d i s ad v a n t a .g e d backgrounds where parents did not attend college and are unfamiliar with proeedures. The committee poses no cost to the. College presently; because .all members. are faculty and administrators. However, \the. group will be alert to both public and private funds available,.'' Roth said, but will only use s()urces consistent with the committee's ob- jectives. In addition to D 1 Andrea and Roth, the advisory group on minority affairs will consist of Associate Deans Kaplan .and Daniels, Dean of Students Marnmola, Professors Smith, Styles and Craig, AOP Director Meadows-Shuford, and an admissions office re.preaen- tative yet to be named. , Commonweal. During the winter term he will be giving principal lectures in English 43: Humanities: Middle Ages and Renaissance with Professor Hans Freund. Professor Ashe will deliver guest lectures foF that class i!S well as for Literature of the Middle Ages, Shakespeare to 1600, Literature of the 18th Century, Major English Authors II, and Introduction to Comparative Literature. Professor Ashe has an international reputation for his scholarly works and is a renowned lecturer. His publications which include a history of anti-morality and a survey of the art of bathing suggest the variety of interests which he will bring to informal. conversations with students and Professorship the English Department seeks to encourage students and facu1ty to enjoy ready access to established scholar-teachers invited to the College in this and in following years to give lectures and to participate in classes, workshops, and informal conversation. Among notable scholars who have expressed an interest in future appointments to the Thomas Lamont Visiting Professorship are Robert Alter, Sacvan Berkovitch, Leo Braudy, John Irwin, Harry Levin, Leo Marx, Charles Tomlinson, Helen Vendler, and Edmund White. Law School Guide Offered faculty. · Jaroslav Pelikan, Sterling Professor of History at Yale University and expert in medieval and renaissance history and literature, has written numerous studies of the Christian tradition, 'of Early Church Fathers, and of the Christian intellectual. He is a leading authority on the Reformation, and his reflec- tions on Luther's continuing relevance appeared as the cover article in The New York Times Magazine on September 18th this year, in com- memoration of the 5ooth an- niversary of Luther's birth. Professor Pelikan, in fact, wrote the screenplay for a feature movie about Luther. The National Endowment for the Humanities awarded Pelikan the 1983 Jefferson Award, its highest honor, as the distinguished American scholar that year. As Jefferson scholar, Pelikan le~ured around the 1983-84 Union Hockey in Pre-Season Exhibition UNION vs. American \' 1 nternational College Friday, Nov. 11 at 7:30p.m. Tickets on sale at the Box Office All tickets$1.00 w/Union College I. D. A major new service for students who are thinking ahead to decisions about post- graduate and professional degrees and future careers has been announced by the Law School Admission Council and the Law School Admission Services. Developed by the organizations that administer the Law School Admission Test (LSAT), the new service is called The Law Package. Gati On US Pol icy Continued from page 1 · circumvent these barriers. conflict of priorities, the conflict First off, \We have _to defend of principles,\ was Gati's fourth ourselves and our allies for we point. Oftentimes various arethebestguarantorofhuman principles are as legitimate as rights for _the world.\ Secondly, other principles, but some have the Umted States must to be more important in the long \promote our values abroad run. This returns to the with compassion, but without hierarchy of values theme and high expectations'' otherwise the necessity of making choices we will be disappointed. Lastly, that Gati professed earlier in \one ought to save most of ones his speech. compassion for the poor and the \The problem is,\ Gati's fifth underpriviledg.ed and the point started, \we begin to politically oppressed in this implement it and suppose we country,\ added Gati. In this succeed ... , how do you assure sense we are our own best their (human rights') survival? friend. What happens the day after?\ Gati ended on an optimistic When it comes down to it, \our note. \We still have a way to go very priority at that point will to realize Martin Luther King's have to be our o\vn survival dreams,\ he said, \but this is because the guarantee of the most flexible society on human rights then in all these earth.\ America bas the un- countries will .be the United canny ability to bend when it States and its West 'European must. However, \both the allies.'' After all, America's peoples of the world and the main priority must be self states of the world are not preservation. \If you're in- ~erica's children. The .world terested in human rights, you 1s not a playground where we have to be interested in the can go in andtell the kids how to survival of the United States play,\ warned Gati. Tbe United and these democracies which Statesdoesn'thavethe power to already exist in the world.\ change the world. Again Human right's by anyones reiterating John Kennedy, \We standards cannot exist without cannot right every wrong.'' In a democratic example to follow. tracking back to his main Therefore, \the promotion of theme, Gati stressed that under our values must follow self only . one circumstance should protection ,; ·said Gati. \There the U.s. press human rights and is no alte~ative to that.\ that is \when doing so would Gati continued by offering also enhance our own security.\ on how to NEW YORK 81. BOSTON CAREER Dec.13-15 ' OBSERVATION SPI;NO ~ DAY 'ON THE JOB' WITH A \miOH ALUMNUS/A Sign I'P 011 flew. M,151tfS •I Tilt ~~ Dt!valopmont Cetd..,. DAYS A four-part program of publications, services and self- evaluation materials, The Law Package will help students explore and evaluate their interest in law school. Students can take a \tryout LSAT\ and request that the Law School- Admission Services score it for their eyes only. They can use the results to evaluate their strong points and weak points. The Law Package will also help students explore questions about the admission process and law school, the aims of legal education, and the range of careers available with a law degree. To assist those who · decide to apply to law school, The Law Package provides a guide to the admission process. The. Law Package will help students malte important decisions about professional training and careers. It is designed to acquaint students with the analytical thinking and problem-solving abilities they will develop in law school, and help them decide whether they really want a career in law. Freshmen and sophomores who are indecisive. about their career paths will benefit from this introduction to legal education and legal careers. Available from the Law Schooi Admission Services for just ten dollars, The Law Package includes: You, The Law and Law School, a book that describes legal career options and what to expect in law school; key facts about U.S. and Canadian law schools; a bibliography of prelaw readings; preparation materials for the l.SAT, .in- cluding details about tlie nature of l.SAT questions; and a sample LSAT with an answer key for self-scoring. . . The Test, a tryout LSAT that students can take and return to LSAC for a con- fidential analysis of their test results. . Information on Five Law · Schools that students designate on The Law Package data ~orm. . The Admission Process: A · Guide, a booklet that describes major factors that law schools consider in reviewing ap- plicants; financial aid in- formation; and additional sources of information relative to legal education and the ad- mission process. Students who desire more information can request \The Law Package Brochure\ by writing to: Law School Admission Services, Box 500, Newtown, PA 18940. October 29-November 20 the by Tennessee Williams A tender, autobiographical classic. Corporate Sponsor: Key Bank N.A. Performances: Tuesday-Saturday 8:00pm; Sunday 2:30pm; Wednesday, Novembe'r 2nd 2:30pm · Non Student Tickets $8-$13 Students with LD. )12 price Tuesday-Thursday evenings, and Sunday Matinee. Limited availability 30 minutes before curtain. 111 North PeariStreet,.Aibany, New York 518-462-4534 Tickets available at The. Market Theatre arid Community Box Offices. · Mastercard andVISA accepted. (No refunds or exchanges.)

CONCORDIENSIS, November 10, 1983 Page 3 Frederick Busch to be . . . Woodrow Wilson Fellow By JUDIESTElNHARDT stidf This is Union's second year to participate in · the Woodrow Wilson · Visiting Fellows program, which has e:xlsted nationally ·tor ten years. The Visiting Fellows ·are recruited by the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foun- dation · on the basis of their success in some .non-academic career. A list is then dr,awn up of aU those willing to participate and when they are available. The schools involved in the program then choose one or two people from the list who they think would be the most helpful~ The Visiting Fellow comes and spend$ an entire week at the campus lecturing both publicly and in classes, advising people interested in his-her particular career, and meeting Wlth students and faculty members. The goal of the program is to help brief students on what to expect in the career they will be entering. · Dean William Daniels, who is Campus Coordinator of the program, believes it is a valuable experience because students need to hear first-hand what it is like to be working in the career they have'·' been studying about _ in books. He says it is a ''valuable program for both persons out there ill the public life and students on c~mpus because they are already successful in their careers.\ The Visiting Fellows can advise students on the best way to go and what to avoid_ when it comes time to get a job. Daniels says that this is im· portant because, \We think we know· what it's like.\ But the truth is we cannot know lintil we live it ourselves. The best way to prepare for_a specific field is to study it in pollege, and . receive advice from those already in that field. The Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellows Program is also very valuable because it is an op- portunity to meet and learn from people who· are well· knoWn and wen-versed in their fields. A student can learn what he wants to know because the fellow .stays for an entire week, doing so much, rather than lecturing for~an hour. Last year, the fellows at Union were A.H. Raskin, who·· was a labor eolwnnist for 'l'be New York TUnes for forty-three years, and Judge Arlin Adams, a federal judge. Students gained in- valuable knowledge from these ve.ry informative authorities who came· to Union for the purpose of helping them. This yeat, the Visiting. Fellow is Prederick Busch, who is a fiction writer and an English professor at Colgate University. His emphasis will be ·on the study of contemporary magazine fiction. It will be in . the format of analysis and discussion of what kind of fic- tion appears in today's magazines. He will be arriving on campus Monday, November 14. The schedule he will be following is shown below. other tentative meetings, which are not included n the schedule, will be p~sted later. Busch, who has experience in nearly every aspect of the field of writing, should be ex- tremely interesting. He has written nLne books and is going to be publishing two more next year. While be is at Union, he will be reading from his un- published . novel, Invisible Mending. Some of his books have been anthologies <if short stories, three were novels, and another was a guide to the works of Hawkes. Busch has written countless articles, essays, and stories for Schedu.le Frederick Busch Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow Monday, November 14 •Noon--lunch, Eng I ish Department •1:30·3:20 Eng. ~9: Modern British Fiction (Marten> HU 119 Tuesday, November 15 •9:30 Freshman\Rreceptorjal (McCord) HU113 •12:30 Lunch .with freshman preceptors, part of weekly seminar f-or all.professors who teach precept · •3;30 Open lecture, \Who Did You Say We Are\; Con· temporary Magazine Fiction··Milano Lounge (Hale House upper lounge) Wednesday, November 16 •10:30 Eng. 62: 19th Century Novel (Ullman) HU119 •2:00·4:00 Open Writing ConferenceHU210A--students may bring their own work and speak with Busch informally •5:30Dinner, President and Mrs. Morris •8:00 Reading from his new novel: Invisible Mending, Milano Lounge Thursday, November 17 •9:30Eng. 18: Introduction to the Study of Literary Forms <Stevenson) HUllS •1 :,30·3:20 Eng. 13: Creative Writing Workshop (Smith) HUll6 •4:00-5: 00 Informal discussion··\ Careers in Writing'' at the Career Development Center *Note: Various ev.ehts are yet t? be scheduled; you will be notified of them at a later date. 7~.11J~ 'B~ corner of State St. & Erie Blvd. • 377-1515 The \IN\ Place for Haricutting and Styling at the right price since 1912 Just ask the guys .of the Football~ Rugby, Lacrosse, B~sketball and Baseball teams. -AJ;,L WINNING HAIRCUTS--- magazines and newspapers. ms short .fiction can be found in such collections as The Best American Short Stories. He has received numerous awards for his work, and was a Woodrow Wilson National FellowshiP recipient In 1962...(i3. Busch will have a lot to offer anyone even remotely in- terested in the field of writing. If you are interested in becoming a writer, if you ate curiousto find out how good you are at writing, if you want to hear some good fiction, or you just want to learn about a career in liberal arts, you should attend one -of the func- tions offered by Frederick Busch.. Woodrow Wilson Fellow Frederick Busch at Colgate University Forum Addresses Benefits By FRANK~IN SCHNEIDER Associate Features Editor In what was their longest meeting to date, the Student Forum met this past Monday, November 7. A variety of issues were discussed with several non-forum members present. As is the usual order of events, the committee reports were presented first. No new business was reported from the Student Affairs Council (SAC) or the Interfraternity Council (IFC). As for the Academic Affairs Council (AAC), Jamie DaiUiger reported that the AAC was looking into a mechanism so that the committee remains informed of department major requirements. Jared Squires, chairinan of the C()mmittee on collllilittees (COC) reported on the COC's meeting thi:s past week. Already, the Union College Democrate is nearing final approval on its constitution. In addition, a few applications have been received for the positio.ns of IFC representative, Planning and Priorities, and Skellar Board. The deadline for these applications is Friday, November 11. The largest portion of the meeting centered ·upon the Finance Committee report of its Sunday meeting. An additional funding request was made by Big Brothers-Big Sisters for $2,200. This was approved by the Finance Committee and sumbitted to the forum for a vote. The motion for additional funding passed. WRUC;s budget was examined by the Finance Committee, because of its overspending of last year's budget. It was found that $4;000, which had been allocated for UPI services, was. not spent on the . wire service. A possible explanation is being in- vestigated. WRUC requested a changing of the present sport's travel expenses. The policy, however, was not changed. The college radio stafion requested the use of swnmer employment funds to pay for someone to write four needed computer programs. Money was tran- sferred between two object categories in- its budget. Lastly, WRUC requested an additional $600 to purchase a +track editing reel-to-reel tape deck from the Arts Department. Again, money was transferred from object categories within the WRUC budget. At its last meeting, the Finan~ Committee discussed the issue of \fringe benefits\ for members of certain on· campus activities. A general policy to eliminate such ''fringe benefits\. was decided upon by the Finance Committee and related to the forum. This most recent decision became the topic of much heated discussion by forum and non-.forum members. The first such policy of fringe benefits to be discussed -was that of free tickets to committee members during a performance (i.e. Film Committee, Speaker's Forum). Representatives of the Fihn Committee were in attendance to present their views on the subject. Speaking were: Andy Rosen (chairman), Naomi Blank, Sarah McMahon, Sarah Schaeffer, Jon Mathiewson, and Stan Forence. The general argument presented by the Film Committee was that the tickets are a reward-incentive for all the time each member puts in. Several forum mem- bers agreed with this position. In particular, Forum President Win Thurlow felt it was a mechanism to combat apathy. Tim Smith, senior representative and finance committee member, felt that only those who work should be allowed free admission. \One must look at the wider policy,\ he stated. A role call vote was taken to rescind the Finance Committee action. This motion passed (8Y-4N-1Abs.). The discussion then turned to the issue of free Concordiensis subscriptions to its editcrs. In a consistant decision, the Finance Committee has also decided to prohibit this editorial benefit. After the issue was brought up to the forum, Senior Representative Smith made a motion to rescind this finance action. Consistency of policy seemed to be the main issue at hand. and a vote was c.aned. The motion passed (7Y-4N- 2Abs.). Other minor issues were then covered by Ben Heckscher, vice president for finance. They included an investigation of the relationship between the arts department and Mountebanks, a refusal to pennit the Record Hop to charge other forwn funded organizations for its services, adjustments in the Garnet budget, and a recom- mendation to increase the Student Activities Fee (this last issue was tabled until next week). The focus of the meeting then turned towards the '\Old Business\ at hand. Andy George spoke of his intentions to organize a Fresh- man Chapel. The Sophomore Class Representative and President Thurlow met with Dean Joseph Mammola earlier this week. 'The Dean expressed an interest in the affair. Further organization is being un- dertaken by George. President Thurlow gave his report upon the leadership conference which he and Student Trustee Shari Midoneck attended last weekend. It was reported to be \worth the $100\ outlayed by the fourm. Topics such as time management and motivation were discussed. Student government policy at other schools was also discussed. As for \New Business,\ only the matter of trustees' sub- scriptions to the Concordiensis was discussed. At the p}:\evious forum meeting, the $282 allocated to Concordiensls to pay for those subscriptions was removed, with another financial source, thus being needed to pay for the papers. At this forum meeting, however, a motion was made to reverse the decision of last week, and to allocate the subscriptions to the trustees. After much discussion from both sides, the motion was voted upon. It also passed (7Y- 4N·1Abs.). As for next week's agenda, the only issue that has been announced is the discussion of the raising of the student ac- tivities fees. FORUM VOTING RECORD FOR MEETING OF MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1983 Me!llber Big Bro/Big Sis $ rickets Con. Sub. Trustee, Sub. Squires Midoneck Vigliedmlo Rodgers Smith Par soils Simone llrand ·Laux George Siler Colesman Danziger Bog. en Yea Yea Yea Yea Yea Yea Yea Yes Not present at this week '• meeting - Abunt Yea Yea No Left meeting early Yes No Yea No Yea Yes No No 1Abstain Yea Yes No Yes Yea Yes Yes Yes No Ab.-,.in. Yee Yea No No Yea No A~~h ~~ Yes Yea No No Yea Yea Yea Yea Not present at this wee.k '• m~et.ing - Absent . . .

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, Norember 10. 1983 Renovations On Horizon By SHERRY WEITZEN Staff President Morris has requested the formation of a committee to investigate the future renovation of Alumni Gym. Althoug.h the actual renovation will not begin until the swnmer of 1985, Presiuent Morris has asked the committee to look into the various details and the hiring of an architect, in order to advise the president on an adequate program for the project. Sakala, Director of Athletics; Margret Schadler, Professor of Biology; Anthony Valente, student; and Dwight Wolf, Assistant to the Vice President. Michael Rudden of Saratoga Associates, will assist as the architectural consultant. The c()mmittee had its first meeting Tuesday, November 8. vestigation by the beginning of next year, and then it can. begin looking for a suitable architect. The project will be financed .by .borrowing 12 million dollars from the New York State Dormitory Authority. This organ~tion lends money to schools at a very good interest rate, and Union will be able to pay back the debt gradually. while still raising money for the · endowment. D'Andrea stated that he is very optimistic about the project and he feels that Union is in a good position to pursue this renovation of Alumni Gym with success, . Renovation of Alumni Gym intosummer of '85 CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS National Hospice Talk . I ·c: 0 .., > .D ~ .s::: Q. The conunittee is chaired by Vice President of Academic Affairs, Thomas D'Andrea. Other members include Lynn Barta, Assistant director of Athletics for Women and coach; Edward Craig, Professor of Electrical Engineering; Harry Demgen, Director of Alumni Affairs; Lisa Freed, student; John Hauser, Vice' President of Finance and Administration; Bradley Lewis, Assistant Professor of Economics; Jack Maranville, Executive Associate to the President; Robert Massa, the Assistant Dean of Students; Richard D'Andrea cited some of the likely improvements that the committee will recommend for the gym, such as more office space, a regulation size pool, and handball and racquetball courts. All these new facilities will be available to the \broad campus,., and will fulfill the College's need for an in- structional and recreational facility. D'Andrea expects that the committee will initially take a tour of the gym and evaluate the present conditions. Sakala and Barta will be asked to give a report of the athletic depart- ment's need. It is also likely that the conunittee will trav.el to other schools to observe what they have in the way of athletic facilities. Donald J. Gaetz, .president and chief executive officer of the National Hospice Organization, will speak at Union Monday, Nov.14. His talk is co-sponsored· by Union.'s Psychology Department and Hospice of Schenectady, and will begin at 3 p,m. in Social Sciences Building room 016. The public is invited to attend. major regional heart center for the Wisconsin-Michigan area. He later served as vice president of the Met,hodist ~ospitals system, managing five acute care hospitals, a nursing home, and a five-county regional home health agency in north Florida. While at Methodist, Gaetz coofounded Florida's first- compr.ellensive inpatient and home · care hospice and directly ad- - ministered the hospice togethel' with his system-wide duties. satlantic lteview, and C9lwnbla among others .. Essays by ,Busch have appeared in Modern Fiction Studies, Mosaic, Ohio Review, and Harper's · D'Andrea hopes to have the committee finish the in· Seeger Speaks ContinuedJrom page 1 most dangerous jobs and lead to the question of what can be done to rectify this situation? Ed Bloch then took the stage and presented his case for the role that labor unions ean and should play in environmental issues. He spoke about tne GE plant in Hudson Falls that was told by the Department of Environmental Conservation that it had to stop dumping PCB's into the Hudson River. The company then put pressure on the union to support it or the plant would close and all the workers would lose their jobs. Because the union searched for the facts and held together, they forced the· company to stop dumping PCB's into the river and pay 3 million dollars towards cleaning it up. The point was to show.. the relationship of the environment to the union. The key element of this relationship is worker health. The last speaker was Bob Redlow, the Regional Manager for Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union. He spoke about two particular cases in which the workers health was being threatened. The first case involved brown lung disease or bicifiosis, which is contracted by textile workers who come into contact with too much cotton dust. Burlington Company refuses to acknowledge this disease which has affected 500,000 of the 800,000 textile workers in the country. Of the affected 500,oo6, 35,000 are disabled but only 400 collect workmans coni- pensation. This is because it is necessary to prove that the worker actually has the disease and is not just suffering from a case of asthma. It is also because it takes the insurance company 8-10 years to pay the recipient after the claim is made and the lifespan of an affected person is only 4-6 years. People rarely collect. The other example that Redlow cited was the case in which the dye benzedine was blacklisted because of it being a carcinogen. Now, instead of using benzedine, the dye shops use....a derivative of benzedine which, because of tests and red tape that has to be cut through, will ta~e 10-12 years to be blacklisted. Until then, the workers are in danger of con- tracting bladder cancer which has been proven to be caused by benzedine dyes. In conclusion, Pete Seeger discussed the role of colleges in this issue. He believes that colleges should train people to go beyond being well-paid. He spoke of Gerald Lower, a researcher for GE in the PCB dumping case, who testified that there was no danger to the environment. As a result, GE disowned him and \his name became mud.\ He used this example to generalize his belief that it is more important to people to tnake money and not '\'upset their bosses than to speak out of line. His final comment, filled with emotion and con- viction, \Praised be he who speaks out of line.\ Gaetz will provide an update of Hospice in America, examine why lt should be considered a ., distinct health program, discuss trends in reim- bursement, provide current research on the hospice movement, and look at challenges for the future. Later that evening, Gaetz will attend the annual meeting of the board of directors of Hospice of Schenectady, to be held at the Schenectady Museum. The National Hospice Organization is an international membership association in· Since 1981, Gaetz has divided his time between serving as associate director of Hospice, Inc., in Miami-Fort Lauderdale, acting as a senior health development consultant of the Catholic Archdiocese of Miami, and establishing the Hospice Foundation, a public charity which raises funds t~ support the delivery of hospice services to indigent persons. Gaetz serves as executive vice president of the Hospice Foundation. Bookletter. He has contributed a number of .book reviews to· The New York Times Book Review, Saturday Review., Modern Fiction Studies, and Chicago Tribune Book World. The Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellows ~ program enables talented professionals to bring their knowledge and experience to small liberalarts coiJ,eges for a~ intensive, wee~·long dialogue with students and faculty. Since 1973, 158 colleges have participated in the program. Contributors include The John Ben Snow Foundation,- the Mobil Oil Foundation, the Booth Ferris Foundation, IBM, the Exxon Foundation and the National .Endowment for the Arts. Management Topic for Discussion eluding more than 750 hospitals, For his leadership in the nursing homes, home health hospice movement, Gaetz is the Thomas J. Purner, Jr., agencies and free-standing recipient of a special com- chairman of the board of hospices and 1,500 additional mendation from President Matthews International Corp. individuals and groups in· Reagan. \' and an executive-in-residence terested and involved in the at Union, will discuss provision of health care ser- Wilson Fellow on \Responsibilities of Top vices to the terminally ill and lll • v· • Management'' at Union their families. Gaetz, 35, serves lY.6.agaz1ne r ICflOn Thursday, Nov. 10. The lecture, without pay as the sponsored by the Institute of organization's head. Writer Frederick Busch will A d m i n is t ration an d Prior to becoming NHO give a lecture at Union Man age men t CIA M) , president, Gaetz w~s the Tuesday, Nov. 15, titled \Who Admin i s t rat i v e an d national co-chairperson of the Did You Say We Are: Con- Engineering Systems, is open to National Hospice Education temporary Magazine Fiction.\ the publig and begins at 3:45 Project, a 50-state coalition of The talk, open to the public, will p.m. in Bailey Hall, Room 312. health care groups and patients be held in Milano Lounge, Hale Purner will trace the and families who achieved House, beginning at 3:30 p.m. evolution and development of Congressional passage and Busch is at Union that week management from early presidential approval of the as a Woodrow Wilson Visiting civilizations through the National Hospice Reim~ Fellow, and will be available for Industrial Revolution to 2oth bursement Act. This act, the formal and informal meetings century America, and will only health or human services with students and other examine aspects of benefit expansion passed by the members of the campus . management such as planning, 97th Congress, extends community. His visit to the organizing, staffing, directing Medicare-reimbursed hospice college is being coordinated by and controlling. care to some 275,000 American William Daniels, professor of . Purner has held a variety of families Who are estimated to polit-ical science. marketing, advertising and need and want such care each Busch received an M.A. from management positions in the year. Hospice of Schenectady Columbia University and has printing industry following ' .-. • ...-...~•-•......,.•-·-•-·-·-·~ recently became the first taught writing at Columbia, World War II, during which he Medicare-certified hospice in University of Iowa, Bennington served with OSS (now CIA) as • • the country. College and Colgate University. deputy chief, counter in- & Paisa Miser f Gaetz also has served as His novels include 1 Wanted a telligence, WesternEurope. His ' general secretary of the Bellin Year Without Fall, Manual military decorations include the • FASHIONS INDIA • Hospital Foundation in Green Labor, The Mutual . Friend, BroiiZe Star and five battle A . FROM . · t Bay, Wisconsin, where he Rounds, and Invisible Mending. stars for European campaigns. ' shared in developing one of the He has published nwnerous He nolds an MBA degree from t •. Back to School Spec·lals ,. first hospital-based hospices in collections of short stories, Rutgers University and is a America and where he some of which have appeared in member of the· lAM Council at managed the development of a Esquire, Harper's,- Tran- Union. t • 2·o~oD1·scount ,. ~w~~~ili~~~~~~&mm~~~~~~~~w~~~~~~~w ~ » . . « X ~ • On all • -··· Coming to Dutch Hollow Pub ···· f New Arrivals f ~ TUES. Fr-e ~ t • ,. ~-.:~~.. N 0 V. 1 5th Admi;slon ~.~;.:! With This Ad :·:· 1 0 to 2 ~:: i 163 JAY STREET 377-7973 •t ~.:~_;_:l. _ l.~-·~_ .. l ' Chach Accepttd with Visa, Master Card or American Express t • 10:30-6 Daily, 10:30-t Thursdays ,. [~~~ j~~J .... •\•' ~ . ~ . . - :-:.. ~ ' . - - . . . . -~··· Q....•~•..-...•~•----•.__..•..._..•~•._..•.._......, ~=!::::=::-:::=::::::::::!:::!:~:::::.:;):~...:::::~::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::;:::::~:::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!::::::::;;;::::::::::::::!::::::;:::.::::::::::::::::::.;::!::::::::.:::::::-:-::::::!::::::::::::::S:~!

CONCORDJENSIS, Nove~ber 10, 1983 Pege5 Democratic Candidates for '84 Pre.sidentJy •.• Rutgers' Keeter Attack~ New Nominating System By LINDA RAFFAELE Staff Last · Thursday night, Professor Scott Keeter of Rutgers University gave an intriguing lecture on the 1984 Democratic Presidential Nomination. Keeter, a fonner political science professor at· Unio~, graduated from · Davidson College and earned his Ph.D. at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He recently published a boo~ entitled: Uninformed Choice- The Failure of the New - Pr,esiden~ial Nontinatlng System. . Thursday'.s lecture--\Win- dows,. Winnowers, and Win- ners''--dealt with the rule changes whicbhave taken place in the Democratic nominating process and what these rule changes will mean for the 1984 election. Keeter began hy saying that the Democrats have been chapging ,the rUles by which they nominate their candidates · in recent elections. Keeter __ relayed a· comment once made by Will Rogers, \I don't belong to any poliUcally organized party-l'm a Democrat.\ In 1968, the Democrats nominated Hubert Flumphrey. His victory was perceived as illegitimate, however, because he did not seem to be the people's choice. He got the nomination because the nominating system was based on caucuses that the state parties held. Some of these were . not public~zed and others were held way ,in · advance' ·of the actual nominatrn~ convention. From 1968 to 1972 the nwnber of Democratic state primaries grew from t 7 selecting one--third of the delegates to 29 selecting 75 percent of the delegates. In 1980, the number of primaries peaked at 31. Keeter believes that primaries' are \a democratic · system . of nominating procedures because the people with their votes determine the outcome.\ In 1976, a one-term Senato~ from Georgia named Jimmy Carter employed a new kind of strategy to captur.e the presidential nomination. He surprised the country by doing well in the Iowa primaries. He went on to finish first in the New Hampshire primary on the force of public opinions' response of his accomplishment in Iowa. Also in 1976, came a surprise from the Republicans. Ronald Reagan came close to taking the nomination away from incumbent President Gerald Ford. The same thing occurred with the Democrats in 1980. Senator Ted Kennedy trieQ. to make headway against Jiinmy . Carter. He failed, but even after he had lost the nomination he would' not support Carter. This decision split the party so that the Republicans won fairly easily. According to Keeter, the problems with the system are fourfold. First of all, the system seems to stretch the campaign out too long. (Janclidates.have to · go out and hustle for votes for too long a time. This kind of contest seems to attract a different kind of candidate. He must have a higl:J. tolerance for boredom and he- must be unemployed. Howard Baker was forced to drop out of the race in 1980 because \he tried to be a good senator at the same time.\ The candidate must also have an enormous amount of ambition. Secondly, the system is bia&ed in favor of cl()sing up early. Much of the logic of the system involves having a candidate (such as Carter) emerge from the pack early and roll -on to victory. This is unfair, however, because it means that New Hampshire and Iowa caucuses have a dispropor- tionate say in the outcQme. 'Fae .system is also not deliberate enough. The content of tile nominating contests is not covered well enough by the press. The characters . of nollkinees are not really · un- veiled. As a result, ''people go witb winners'' of previous priJQaries. Fbuilly, the system does not provide enough opportunity for peer review. No longer do those who have intimate knowledge of the candidates have much say hth~ matter. This knowledge is not pu~ into public view. Tile Hunt Commission was assigned to deal with these prol>lems. It has proposed more ch8llges in the rUles for the 1:98~ Dern.ocratic Nominating Convention. First of all, to eliminate early closure and provide for greater peer review, it has been suggested that 14 percent of the delegates to the conv-ention be super-delegates. Super-delegates are members of the party such as congressmen and governors who are familiar with the can<iidates' characters. Secondly, the binding rule will ~ be rEmoved. Kennedy tried to remove it in 1980 when he real~edhe was going to 'lose the nominatiOn to Carter if it was not removed, but he was· 'un- successful. In the 1984 con- vention, legal binding will not exist. Delegates, however, will · still he morally bound. Third, it has been proposed that the period of delegate seleetion be shortened. This is still under dispute. The Com- mission. wants to mandate a beginning and an end to the pr.-im.aries. · Finally, also to combat the problem of early closure, it has been suggested that the delegates be allocated proportionally. There are two ways to do thill: \loophole primaries\ and \winner take more.\ ''Loophole primaries\ are J)rimaries in which contests are held in congressional districts. \Winner take more\ simply means that delegates are allocated proportionally and the candidate who gets a plurality gets some extra dele~ates, toQ. So far; the front.-unners for the 11omination are Walter Mondale and John Glenn. Momlale is backed by the AFL- cro and Glenn recently was portrayed in a movie about. his career as an astronaut called \The Right Stuff.\ Alan Cranston is the only candidate witha strong issue, which is the nuclear fre.eze campaign. Jesse Jackson, a black reverend from Nortll. Carolina, is the nominee who eould throw a curve into the ball game. As the first black candidate to seek a presidential nomination from a major party, Jackson could get many of the 41 percent of unr~gistered black voters DUt to the polls. Accor- ding to Keeter, \getting more blacks registered might very well spell the difference in the 1984 .election. Not that Jesse Jackson would · get the . nomination, but he could take enough votes away from Mond1rle to give it to Glenn. He cou1d also throw his delegates to the candidate whom he believes W()Uid best serve his con- stituents' needs.'' Keeter's gut reaction is that Mondale will get the nomination because he feels that \Mondale has an abUity to get people ()Ut to the polls, a trait I have not seen in Glenn.\ It certainly will prove te> be an interesting race, whatever the outcome. At this point, it really could go either way. • Professor Scott Keeter of Rutgers University, speaking on the Democratic presidentia·l nomination r/1 10 Cl :E u .Q) c: s:. Q. 10 0 Career Observation Days By DIANNEPAVACIC students. On Decem~r 14t~, ~pending a day ~than alumnus Staff the New York Alumru Club 1s man area that mterests them. also holding their 7th Annual They can also spend a day with On December 13, 14, 15 the Career Night. an alumnus who works in a field New York and Boston Alwnni The Observation Days will they don't know much about. ~n Clubs are sponsoring Career give students the opportunity to this way, students can gam Observation Days for Union explore career optiQns by first-hand knowledge of what a ;-------_..;;..-----------------. particular job is like by viewing S . -urn: m. . . er Jo· b. . s the duties Df their host, on-the- job. With this experience~ the By DLANNE PAVACJC Staff Next week, the career assistants will be conducting SJlffiillel\ job workshops. The assistants are hoping for a good turnout since they will be presenting the workshops on three night~ at five different locations. This should enable every student to fit the worksh()p into their busy tenth week. scbedule. Some may ask, \Why a · summer job workshop so soon?'' While some students are . . fortunate enough to. ''knCJw somebody\ that ~;;m get, th~~ a . , job that they ·will like, others aren't as lucky. There are many strategies however, that can help one find a job. Pam Hart- man, the Career Development Specialist at the Career Development Center states that, \A lot of jobs are highly competitive and the sooner one starts looking, the better CJff they'll be. Having the workshops now will enable students to use their winter vacation to explore and research job possibilities.\ Numerous topics will be covered at the workshops in- cluding self-assessment, sourcing, networking and in- formaticm interviewing. Self-assessment will focus on questions like \Why do YCJU want to wol\k?\ and \What kind of experience do you want?\ Hartmaa points out that, ''If you're looking for a relevant experience, the job you end up with doesn't necessarily have to be related toyour field of study. · For example, technical oc- cupations also need people· with ·· interpersonal skills which could be demonstrated by a summer job in retail sales.'' Sourcing and networking will help students make contacts and gather information about the areas they wish to pursue for a summer job. The Career Development Center library design will be explained and several extensive \sources of information\ lists will be handed out. A major portion · of the evening will be spent on in- formation interviewing. It iS an involved process but will help students ·make contacts, gain experience, confidence and sltill in interviewing. All five workshops will begin at 7 p.m. and will last about an hour. The schedule is as follows: On Tuesday,· November 15th they will be held in Fox Lounge and . the Humanities Building, Room 115. On Wednesday, November· 16th, the workshops will be held in Davidson Lounge and on Thursday, November 17th they will be presented in the Rich- mond basement lounge and in the 2nd floor loung of West College. Everyone is encouraged to attend--on campus, and off campus students, fraternities and sororities. Anyone needing further assistance in their sunnner job search shoUld make an ap- pointment with a counselor in the Career Development Center. student will then have a better idea of what he would like to do or what he would not lie to do. Some of the career fields that will be presented are: Actuary, Chemistry, Computer Science, Copywrfting, Education, Engineering, Finance, Health Administration, Insurance, · Investments, securities, Law' Management, Medicine, Dentistry, Performing Arts, P e r s o nne 1, Pub I i c~ Administra tiou, Publishing- Editing, Real Estate, Sales- Marketing, Social Services and many more. The program is open to everyone: freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and seniors. To take advantage of the Career Observation Days, students must sign up in the Career Development Center on November 14, 15, and 1&. One Union student who participated in the program last year said, \I thought that the experience was excellent. It made me more sure about my career goals since I saw what the profession was like on the inside. My host was extremely helpful, informative, and en- tertaining.\ The New York Career Night will take place on Wednesday, December 14th, in New York City. A panel of alumni from various career fields will be present to discuss their jobs, their career paths and problems encountered, and will answer any questions students have. For further information, contact a career counselor in the Career Development Center. CalendarChange Proposed By JULIE ABELMAN Editor-in-chief A committee comprised of Vice President D'Andrea, Professors E. Craig, D. Ro!r bins, J. Underwood, T. Werner, B. Wineappi.e. and Dean Daniels has been ,discussing a possible transformation of the trimester system · at Union. The tran- sformation, Which has not been approved yet, would involve a change from the present system to a \split\ -trimester. The proposed system involves three, ten-week terms as we have nDw, however, winter term would be \split\ after the first three weeks by winter vacation. Fall term would begin immediately after. Labor Day, ending before Thanksgiving. There would then be thr.-ee weeks of winter term, followed - by a few weeks of vacation. The remaining seven weeks of winter term would begin after the New Year and would be · followed by a two week vacation in February. Spring term would consequently end a few weeks earlier and graduation would then be at the end of May or the beginning of June. Most of the committee is iri favor of the split-trimester system because of its many advantages. The biggest ad- vantage is that the period from January to graduation would be shorter and have a longer break in the middle of it-relieving tension and making it easier for students to find swnmer jobs. However, there are some disadvantages to the split- trimester as well. Beginning fall term as early as Labor Day may cause problems for some people. Plus, the committee is concerned that students would not be motivated to work during the first three weeks of winter term, figuring they could \catch-up\ during winter brealt. The biggest problem the committee foresees is the effect that the new calendar would have on the term abroad programs. However, Dr. D'Andrea feels that these problems can be ac- commod,ated. Hobat't and William Smith College has been using the split- trimester system successfUlly for over ten years. However, before Union makes a similar transition, many things must be considered. If you have any thoughts on the issue, the committee members would appreciate y()ur comments.

Page6 COJVCORDIENS/S, November 10, 1983 Discover the magic oi good books THE OPEN DOOR 128 -'i 36 Jay Street Downtown Schenectady 346·2719 Books • Gi{t$. • Postel'$ • Potterv by .Rose Catalano 1 ·111.ountebank s prese.nts:· BUS S'TOP It alia Pizzeria & Restaurant. I : J 0 11. . WI . 1a1t1 1nge - 1617 Union St. ., ' ' 374-4623 PIZZAS I HOT SANDWICHES NAJOLETANA ! Veai·P5f'm!i•an• jJS, ec:.n ICU'I 215 1 Stull SandwiCh 2''60 E~KrP11nt a.- ........... 3.115 en-.. .. . . •.so Mid 25 ro Inlow tar PMm•1P\' IT-Ing •.•.•.... 4.110 1 Topp•1'111··· . 5.;)0 MI .. ball 2 30 -- 240 Ptntlf1'l• 2 Jl S-.u:5t9e a. Pepper 150 2T-'\\\ ........ 5.10 2 T OPPi\UU •. .. e.oo Anu~nto S.r*' 2.95 3T_.,.. ........ 5.11 3 TootJinp ..... 8.15 The Holidays are coming 4.TCCJP~t9 ot ~ - .-me. Prkt n.-. ........ 7.00 n..Works 780 Hours of 9peration: PASTA IICILIANA Marueon• 3.50 !Wltr'l MeMblllll 4:<0. ' 12C.O 24C.C I Spoghtttl .. 2.10 lwith Mealblllll 3:50 Thanksgiving Recess a.- ........... 1.25 ~ ............ 8.2& Zit1 ... JT-., ......... 7.10 IT-101 . .. . . .. 11.05 AIIViah n_. ........ 7.GO H- ......•. 13.15 LISDgl\'lt' 2.15 IW1th·~atblllll 3.25 (Will'! Me.tl\11151 3.eo h~•th·~atbtllsl .. , ~ .. UJCJU- BINd Md S.IM! 3.50 3.90 4.!0 The Dutch Hollow Pub wi·ll close after lunch at 1:30 p.m. on Monday, November 21st for Thanksgiving Recess and will reopen on lT- ........ 1.50 JT- ....... 14.115 Tho WO!tlt ....... 10.40 Tho Worb .17H Toaed S.lllld 150 Monday, NoveA1ber 28th at 7:30 a .. m. . *It¥ Itt flllt mMU. wtd,.,.II.OO off OW)\ rour pitr. SUB SANDWICHES ' Ch- CALZONE 2.21 1 Togp1n9 2 4S .Rock-n-RoH Pizz.a will close after regular business hours or:t Monday, November 21st and reopen on Monday, November 28th at ~~~--...-wl·---·- 2 TOOPIIl~ 2.85 3 Topp1ngs 28S --~-- l:30p.m. · · \- Ito! ........ 3.25 Tuil<oy ........... 3.25 FM PI'Oh'JPf tJn:/111, clll•hftd ol til'~ H.,. ............. 2.70 Tun. ...•• - ..••••.. 2.45 Winter Recess ...... a-. ..... 3.00 .,_ ........... 2.20 NEW HOURS Soltml ........... 2.11& C;ptraJQI •..•..•.. 2.95 Dutch Hollow Pub will close after regular business hours on Monday, December 5th. The Bar will be open Monday night until S..naov JOQpm.to 11 OOp.m. lt.l'-' H!bcld Monday lhru Thuraday 11 001.m lo·12 OOp.m. (CopOollo, Stloml, Moflodolll, \\\\\\'\'· •.•.. 3.15 I lE-v T- N'-''' All .... - \\\ .... \'; I with OM Mtltboll, ont Dreier of G1rlk: 'Br.od lind Salad •.. Ia< ooly $1.4e. . . Fncray and S.rure.y 11 oa •. m.to 1 00,!_~ ••• W• thftwr Aft•r S·OOp,m. CALL 37•·4823 1500 ~lnll\l'lllfl1 Ore!~· () 1:00 a.m. tor those finished with exams. It will reopen Tuesday, January 3rd at 7:30a.m. Rock-n-Roll Pizza will close after normal business on Monday, u December 5th and will reopen Tuesday, )anuary 3rd, at 1 : 30~p, m, i I { All New Books ' Below half price ll ()LL()~ ·All day. Friday, Nov. 11 Promenade Books 277 State Street Entrance under marquis -·~·-·.._.. . ..-...~---..-..·-·-·~·~·-·-·-·· t - . ~ . t eieeo~J I t . • t f COMPARE & SAVE i t • . t t PIZZ.A SIZE • ~ ... 'tli 6 cut 8 cut i • eiee()\J (374-4332) s 4.82 , ! Our Original. S 5.90 i t Domino's S 4.12 S 5.99 ! i Riggi's S 6~05 t ' N.Y. Pizzeria $ 5.95 ., . t t • •t • PRICES ARE A CHEESE PIZZA DELIVERED TO • • .• UNION COLLEGE. ' • t f BUY THE BEST PIZZA j l AT THE BEST PRICE j '-·-· ....... ·-·-·-·-·~ . .._.. . ..._.. ...................... .._..._ ... Need arGift? The Schenectady Museum Shops 12: 00 to 5:00 on weekends 10:00 to 4:30 on weekdays. Accept Master Charge & Visa 10 FREE WIN~s~a.~ with any order of 10 w1ngs l;:~~ . / Or More Not. Valid on Specials Buffalo Style Chicken Wings 393-0164 11 W e Specialize\ - HOURS: Mon.-Thurs. 11 a.m.-1 a.m.· Fri. and Sat. 11 a.m.-2 a.m. Sun.12 p.m.-Midnight WING WAGON 827 McClellan St:_., Schenectady, New York Delivery $1.00 Every Hours-6 p.m.·Midnight

CONCORDIENSIS. November 1(}, 1983 P11ge 7 FEATURES j Activities Need Activists By DAVE FITZGERALD you see the same act?\ productions but the attendance Swiss Exchange By BARRIE STAHL and DEBBIE WIENER this program as Sophomores so they are able to take their junior year a·broad. Tiley must make the Dean's Ust for the science and engineering departments, and also be reasonably fluent in German. (The equivalent to 3 years of college level G~rman.) Uusua'lly students take 2 terms of German during their sophomore· year and then take a and FRANl{LIN SCHNEmER It has been very hard for the from off-eampUB people has staff of Cabaret to find new helped to reduce financial Among the many op- portunities that Union students have to go abroad, one in particular stands out. It is the exchange prQgram with the Swiss ·Federal InstitUte of Technology (ETH). This is an opportunity for science and engineering students to spend a full school year abroad, in people this year. Very few losses from students not at~ people Show up at the group's tending. Throug.hout fall term a nwnber of committee heads have complained about a lack of pa·rticipation in their organjzations. In some cases it is not only a lack of par- ticipation or lack: of mem- bership in an organization but a lack on the part of the campus comm~ity to take advantage of the services and op• portunities avail~ble to them. An attempt has been made l!Y members of the Concordieasls staff to see· if there really :is a problem with some campll$ activities and if there really is a lack of participation by the dampus as a whole. In this study some of the heads of tile most noticeable activities ·were interviewed to see if they were pleased with the performance of their group during this fall term. organizational; meetings. In Philios would . like to see fact, \No one shows up at our Mounteballks be more than just talent organization meetings.\ a theater organization. This Cabaret has not had a year she tried to organize a problem with getting people to drama workshop but funds serve as waiters and were not available to help pay corresponding course in . wiatresses. Kornfieid believes for such an event. that this is because being a Speakers ·Forum attempts to Switzerland, at the \M.I.T .. of Europe.'' Switzerland. It is critical for students · to do well, because once in Switzerland they are exposed to German all day long. waiter~waitress is, \a short present a varied group of in- term commitment and not very teresting speakers. A core This program was set up by Professor Lome, a mechanical ·engineer, in 1961~ Its .purpose is to broaden students' knowledge and, at the same time,. expose them to S()me culture. In the progr.t'lm's earlier years, more Union stud'ents ·were sent overseas than tbe number of .students that came here in return, However, at the present time, the exchange ratio is generally one to one. The students go . to Switzerland, and although the students don't have to pay ans tuition to Union College, tlu!Y find . th~r own housing and pay the ETH a small sum for attendance. The rest of tile money is sup- plemented by the Sw-iss government. Generally, the Swiss students that come here are graduate Students, and they do not have to pay tuition at Union. They, too, receive money for room and board, although their housing is usually found for them. time consuming. No one wants group of 10.14 members com- to commit themselves for the poses the active membership of On the average, about 14 students apply each year. All the necessary forms ·must be filled out and interviews granted.. A panel of teachers nominates twQ of the ap- plicants. The panel is generally formed by faculty members and a student who has been on the tertti abroad. The information on the two students selected is then sent to the ETH for the final choice. year.\ the Speakers Forum. Only a All applicants for this program must be science or engineering majors. Interested . ·students generally apply. for Swiss students only have exams once every two years. Therefore Union students are not · given exams. Credit is granted )Vhen U1e student returns here. He-she is in- terviewed once again by the panel, and he-she must recite his-her new knowledge before any credit is received. However, Swiss students who come here must take all the exams that are given.\ Anyone interested. in par- ticipating in this program should speak to Prof. Martin in the science and engineering building. This is your Last chance to buy ... · The AMAZING 19 84 ~ YEARBOOK For Only $15.50 After tomorrow, Nov. 12 the price will be $20 BUY NOW & SAVE! An organization on ClllllJ>US that is devoted to service to tbe campus and the surrounding area is Circle K. Members of this organization volunteer some of their time to provide services to charitable and other organizations. Membership in this organization has dropped over 50 percent this year, from 39 to 19 active members. Of this year's 19 members, 13 are seniors. For the members of Circle K, the weekly' meetings have become in themselves a type of social event. It has been very difficult for the group leaders to organize events this fall, since the reduced number of members implies a reduced number of hours volunteered for service to the community. A few of.the planned events for the fall term had to be cancelled due to lack of interest and support. Circle K's leaders hope that as everyone gets to know each other better they will want not only to socialize at meetings, but also to work together. This in itself is a rewarding way of socializing together. Circle K is proof that s,ervice organizations can be fun and also a great way to meet new people. Many people look forward to the weekly Thursday night production of Cabaret. Cabaret is a special form of en· tertainment performed by students. This year Cabaret has not exactly been a weekly oc- currence. The basic problem according to Ann Kornfield, a · head of Cabaret, is that there is a lack of talent willing to par- ticipate in Cabaret. Crowds cannot be drawn to shows if the same acts are always per- forming. \How many times can Another music-entertainment organization on campus is Coffeehouse.. Coffeehouse provides a quiet evening of entertainment w;th professional folk music. Attendance this year at Coffeehouse has dropped significatnly. Last year the average attendance was 35 people. This year the most people that shDwed to see a performance was 17. A~cording to Allyson Ram- sey, the head Df Coffeehouse, \People just don't want to go. Weare usingthe same publicity as last year; it, s just not .aS high powered. It gets depressing. You break your buns to put on a successful perfonnance and no one shows up.\ Coffeehouse is even having troubles getting people to work. \Many people sign up but nobody returns calls.\ · To conclude, Ramsey stated, \No one tells liB what they want . . . but then they complain afterwards. It's nonsense. They shouldn't have the right to complain. It's utter silliness.\ Mountebanks, the campus drama organization which is currently putting on the production Bus Stop, has had problems but is attempting to remedy them. According to Melinda Philips, a head of Mountebanks, there is a core group of ten members tnat can always be depended upon. \Many people from last year graduated, transferred, or are on a term abroad. There are however some new people.\ . Mountebanks has a special situation in regards to at- tendance at its functions. This year the basic ticket price has been reduced for students from $3;00 to $2.50. The reason for this, according to Philips, is that, \Most students can get about the same entertairunent value from a movie or Cabaret which are $1.00-$1.50.\ Due to good reviews from local newspapers it is hoped that there will be a good show of people from off-campus. It would be nice for the group if more students went to the r·~·~·~·~· ........ ~ ............... ~·~· ....... ·~·...-. ................. ~ ......................... ~·~ t Guidelines for Dutchman's Night Res-ervations ., A • Reservations for Dutchman's Night will only be accepted at the Pizza Pub during normal ! business hours Monday through Thursday. . ., A \> • When making reservations all persons or meal cards must be present. This is to insure proper • 9 reservation taking. • • The party must be booked all at once, this will insure a better dining atmosphere. We cannot t A accept \maybe\reservations. . . f • cas'h reservations are welcome. Those who will be paying for dinner, please pay at the door. •t · •t • A person must bring his-her I 0, meal card and entry ticket at Dutchman's Night. If these are not • present, a person cannot be seated. . . · l ·~ • Anyone caught using another individual's I D, meal card or dinner ticket will be turned over to ! the directo~ of food service. Meal card and I D will be taken. t i • Because of a large dining room turnover, we ask that you be prompt for dinner. This will insure • 9 an easy turnover, and no waiting for peeple at later seatings. • •Saturday, November 19 will be the last Dutchman's Night this f t term. The first Dutchman's Night for winter term will be Sat., • ·, Jan .. 14, 1984. . · p b & · . . Management of the Dutch Hollow u . . _ . . ' ~ . .._...~ . ..._... . ..._.. . ........._. ........... ._. ........... ..._. ........... ~ . ..-.. . ..._.. . ..._.. . ..._. ........... ..._.. . ._...~.--- third of the people that signed up to join. the group at the Activities Expo have actually become active members. Problems of low attendance and a 10 percent budget cut have presented problems for the Speakers Forum. At the Homecoming speech 632 tickets were sold out of a poSsible ooo~ Last Spring tenn only about Z50 people appearedtosee Dr. Ru.th Westheimer. According to Joe Cernigliaro, the Speaker:s Forum is \trying to give pe()ple (students) en· tertaining speakers. In past years we gave out question- naires, however, the suggestions were either roo expensive or unavailable. We go on instinct when we choose speakers. We try to pick speakers tllat we think the people will like.\ The Women's Network is a group that attempts to bring to light women's issues to the entire campus community. According to Karen Paul, seniors usually: run the organization and then the next year's group has to rebuild the organization. Membersltip consists of a small strong core group. Only 10 percent of the people that signed up to join actually participate. Paul states, \The group gets good feed))ack in general, however, there is a bad reputation with us. We do not see the lack of appeal as due to our views. Our views are not that radical, Tather most people would accept our views.\ Concordie11sis, the weekly campus new.spaper, like many other organizations on thi.s campus, is llaving problems in getting active members. According to .some of the editors of the paper, \We have less people than ever before. What we need is dependable en- thusiastic writers. People say they will write something and then they don't. We (the editors) have to grin and bear it and say may-be next time. The sad thing is we have to go back to these people for help because they are all we have. People do not want to put a minute futo anything unless it looks good on their resume.\ With almost· every organization head interviewed the same st()ry was told. Not enough interest and not enough participation. It is Wlfortunate that on a campus like ours so few people actually keep student organizations running. People that are active members of organizations are becoming very discouraged and their organizatioas are literally dying. Groups can only ad- vertise their activities so much, some of the initiative has to come from you. There is probably not a single organization on this campus that could not use help of some kind. Getting involved in .((ampus organizations will make for a more total education and can be more fun than just studying all the time.

Poge8 CONCORDIENSJS, NovemberlO, 1983 FEATURES Part IH • • • The Hand- Stephens' Bar Guide Tell Me Why By J.C. STEPHENS Features Staff grace., but impractical in UJ.eir design. 'There exists no clear center to thiS rigamorole, and By CHRIS HAND and J.C. STEPHENS Every so often in the life of a Union college student the time comes to set out for new fron· tiers of excitement. It is a longing in the heart (and for some male students, a longing · in the groin) that leads one to take that trip northwards. Towards that city of sin and fun, cars become packed to the hilt as they ramble up Route 50. The next stop ... Saratoga! When last Chris and J .C. set 'out to explore the nightlife of Schenectady, we felt a bit remors.eful and a trifle bit sad. \After all,\ Chris would say, \I've heard of life outside of Schenectady, . . . there's a place, some say, that caters to the hungry hearts· and dry palates of endearing youth.\ J.C. was a bit confused by his rhetoric, and even more stifled by his sincerity. Nevertheless, we vowed that next week we would seek out new territory. So, alas . . . we've come to Saratoga. For the naive, ·Saratoga lies approximately 40 minutes north of Schenectady. Route 50 is the best known route, and has found infamy as the path of the Chi Psi beer rally. An alternative is to travel the Northway, but this will not take you to the center of town. Additionally, it can be quite confusing if you haven't yet traveled the backroads that lead from Rafter's to town. Route 50, however, is no great thrill, but can promise a great time if you're out for a DWI. Bj!ware of the Balston Spa area, as it is reknowned for its speed traps and facility at capturing weary drivers at 3 a.m. Once in town, there are quite a few P,laces to go. Some of the more interesting places to frequent follow: Barclay's: Probably one of the more well-known Saratoga bars, Barclay's is a must. It can get rather crowded, but its Thursday $1 ice-tea specials are worth the grind. Some video and a dartboard that lies in the path of straying bathroom-goers, so watch out. The music's not bad, and they have a nice revolving door. (+++Vz) Bljou; Since its renovations last year, The Bijou is a much better place. The occ~sional band in the back's not bad. Lots of video games and a beat-up pool table. Nice decor and a good environment. There is a cover charge though. We think it was a buck, but we don't remember. (+++) T&L's: We're still not quite sure what this stands for; we couldn't read the 'sign, so if anyone knows, write in. This place can be found down a flight of stairs, around the comer from the Metro. Pretty rustic environemnt. Good· for those who like the Skellar and are dragged with their friends up North. Cheap beer on tap. Some neat old pictures of collegiate life, but you won't find any Union paraphernalia here, so they lose a cross for that. Some video, a jukebox and checkered table cloths. (++) Metro: The place t-o dance in town. A greenhouse for the sophisticated drinkers, \a pleasant downstairs with tables. Now serving food up- stairs. The dance floor seems always crowded. The music's good and the prices ar-e reasonable, but they lose half a cross for having a mirrored wall next to the dance fioof, Cover charge, but a definite stop (++++J Rafters: Tbls is tbe ,place to dance. However, you have to travel a bit out of town to get there. It looks like an old country club when you. walk up to it. Inside you'll find a great sound system with. a very well- finished dance floor. Good music and great decor. 'rhere's lots of room in the back 'if you want to get away from the music. Upstairs in the rafters you'll find some nice tables and a few bars. Expensive; It's a little more classy than most places ... they'll check your coat. Some ligllt snacks an~ video. Worth it if you've got the money. However, they lose a half a cross becanSe..tbey blow smoke all over the dance floor in order to operate their laser show.· It makes it tough to see who you're dancing with which can be good sometimes. (++++) Skidmore: No dancing e.xcept by choice. No drinking, except by necessity. No cover charge, ,. except by who you're there with. This is included because J.C. had to pick Chris up there at 10 o'clock the next morning. (No Rating) There are a number of other places that deserve some at- tention. However, these are the most well-known · of the Saratoga stops, so it sto~ here, as did our money. We did opt to include a few--other places in order to add balance. Sneaky Pete's: Out on the Latham Circle., we found only a nice aquarium when we en- tered. We also made the mistake of checking our coats and incurring an additivnal expense. The music is fair, the dance floor small and the crowd a joke. (lh) Reflections East: Resting on the majestic Hudson and overlooking scenic Troy, this is a first-class dive. You have to drive down to the river to find it, and once you've found it all you want is to leave. A nice 15alcony overlooks the dance floor. Th£re is a fight that usually starts around 10 so . get there early. One good point: For $5 you llrink from 9-mid.night, all you want, which you Will probably choose to do once you see wbat the place is like ( +) Charades: If you've ever heard the conunercial on the radio and wondered what it was like, don't despair. Thl'\ee mafioso-type character's in three-piece suits meet you at tb.e door and tell you that y-ou can't get in wearing designer jeans. Once inside it's like dancing in a garbage can. A more sophisticated crowd and a more decent atmosphere than. tlte normal Route 5 places~ (++) Fantasies: The only video- teque in the Capital District, we used to like this place for its good collegiate environme11t, ftin people, good videos, and nice style. Thursday nite is college nite, which doesn't mean much in the way· of discounts. There's aladie.s' nite, some nite. The weekends cffer a cover charge. Sometimes you'll find comedy upstairs, with amateur audience participation and acts optional. Recently, it seems to laclt the energy it once had. Still a nice change, and n()t as far as Saratoga (Route 155 and Route 5). Some video games and good, cheap snacks. (+++) Fireside: Across from Price- Ch()pper on Eastern Parkway,. we liked this place. Nice en· vironment. F'riday's are fun, as the young executives flock for food and drink. Free popcorn, garlic bread, and chicken Wings; it's a good deal if you have a little money to spend. They have a fireplace in the winter, and it's best to hang out upstairs, asthe food downstairs has gone way doWilS.tairs in recent years. (+++) Sundays : Upstairs in the renovated church, Sunday's has good food at reasonable prices .. · Most students ta,ke their ·parents bereaUeastonce in the four years they're at Union. The bar was a disappointment- though with no music that you can hear. We believe they had WGFM~n. (++lh) After spending some time at these places and talkidg about recent articles, J.C. was able to talk Chris into changing the rating standards in order to incorporate those places. that deserved lessthan the two cross minimum, expecially after his adventure at Skidmore. As a result, we are able to offer more places for inspection this week and in the future. Chris is a little bit happier. After J .C. picked him up Saturday morning at Skidmore, he was able to take advantage of Chris and to relax more of his standards about these places. Consequently, Chris stopped drinking his stuck-up Smirnoff's on the rocks and chose to start drinking Lady Birds (except where the bar had no Cherry Liquor). Next: New York City Cafe I&II 1 Night Fever, Skyway, Lorenzos and The Sbip Yard. Features Writers Needed_! Call6155 'Recently, I've been thinking no clear path from one area to about how many things just another. Instead, the student or don't seem right. Not, things visitor ls sul)je~ed to a maz~ of that violate my morality, or indifference that carries him even my idealistic nature,· but around, instead of delivering things that just .plain Violate him from one point to another. common · sense. More Sure, these sidewalks look g9Qd specifically, there are, many from an aerfal.photograph, but .things that seem utterly stupid. it's hard to see·· the students Observations· is intended to slifing aro!Uld and struggling to draw the attention of high· get from one place to another. ranking officials, strategic Al~o key in the fine planning planners, philosophers, and of this ·campus is a series• of those who implemented some of steps to be foun<l in the back of, these atrocities. Fox: and Dividson ,donnatorles; The first observation involves Each step is actually one and a .the heating system here ·at half steps and was designed fot Union College. Why is it that someone with a stride of 6-7 each dqnn and clas$room must feet. I was .toldthatthe design of be kept. at 96 degrees · these. $eps was to facilitate. Farenheit? It would seem that climbing when the ground was something has gone awry in the snoweoverecl I seriously doubt .planning of · the heating this intention from the other requirements and heating desi:gniiJg · features I have ob- system. It appears that starting served. Another .]>Oint about the in late October, the guys down steps: recently renovations on at the Union College Power the Fox and Davidson dorms Plant get together and try to has ca11sed one of the stairs on scorch each and every college the Tri-Delt Side of Davidson to student living on campus. As· be removed. Once removed. the temperature rises, many however, someone deemed that students either fall asleep for they W()uld be replaced as tbey the winter or open their win· were. Ask someone in Webster dows to stave off an increasing about this. influx of hot air, kept at Onefi:nal note regards the air <tangerously high levels. Is temperature in the library: For insulation of the dorms not the those students who occasionally answet? High tuition financing study or must use the library for an over-abundance of hot-air; ~~search, its' temperature can the administration should take turn that scholarly individual note of this careless waste. ~ away. I do not know what the In addition: the ·steam lines goal . is in keeping the tern- that deliver this high- perature so high inthe library, temperature air are in the but I do know that Ive seen quite wrong place. Each winter, after a few stttdents put to sleep by its the snow sets in, the steam in intolerable heat. Will all the these lines melts ·clear. paths microfilm melt? along its directions. In a place Tbe following questionnaire like Schenectady, where the concerns the observations set winters are known to be cold, the forth. Please· answer these planners must have been out in qllestions and direct responses the cold. If such a loss is to to the Concordy. occur, wouldn't it be better to 1. Do.you think that it is too place those lines under the hot in the l;lorms? sidewalks or at least near them. · la. What do you think should That lost steam could melt the .be done? snow and ice away, and the 2. Do you think that the school students walking to and fro is wasting money? would not fear the loss of limb 2a. What are some viable or life from .sliding orr un- alternatives? derlying layers of hardpack ice. 3. Do you believe the stairs . If it was the design of the and sidewalks here at Union Sidewalks that threw these lack some practicality? guys, even greater trouble lies. Ba. Do you think anything can .AH of the sidewalks that be done ()r should be done? surround the outside of library 4. Comments about the heat in co'l.lrt, between the Nott, Car- the library · negie,. Social Science and the 5. Why are there holes in Humanities, are poetic in their crackers? r·~·----·----· ....... ·-·-· ....... ·-·-·-·-·-·~·-·, i · NEW Rock-n-Roll Pizza Pub j j presents: I i Pizza, Etc. t i • .. · ' Now Featuring: ' • Hot Sausage Subs - $2.00 t· t · Pizza Bagels • .40-.90 • i Hot Pretzels- .. 40-3/1.00 f • This Week's Specials: . , i t One f,lree to.ppin.g or two free ·'' Delivery Special. • medium sodas with this ad •. .(One ' t. 370-6060 ad per pizza). ! . t t Mond.ay· -Friday: Free bag of. chips with any sandwich • j Open . Dutc~man's Night! I • 1:30-11:30 p.m. Sun., Mon., Wed., Thurs. Reservat~on.s taken Mon·Thurs. t t 1:30-12:30 a.m. Tues., Fri., Sat. . Nor~al business hours.only!: • t-.. .......... ~ • ..._... .......... .._.. ........... ..._...4lllllilllooo • .._. .......... .._..~ • .-. .......... .....t ( t I 1 r tl fl b 0 b r d p G fJ a n h E e: a Cl I I I i I I I I ~· -~

I CONCORDIENSIS, November 10, 1983 Page 9 FEATURES Architecture- The Ratings By MATI' NANKIN Senior Writer One of the strongest links Union has to its past is . its distinctive architecture~ The North ·and South Colonnades, originally designed QY Ramee, have set the example for most of the buildings on the campus today. However, ::;orne of the more recent stt\Uctureshave not lived up to the high .standards set by Mr. Ramee back in the early 19th century .. In the following list I have . rated the more recent additions to the 1:Jnion architectural family (excluding atl:iletic and housing facilities) on a basis of one to four stars. Any simUarity between this list and those in recent weeks rating local drinking establishnients is purely coincidental, - Becker Hall (formerly Old Gym Hall)-As a prospective freslunan almost four years ago, I do not remember how much character this building had before its renovation. However, it is now a prime example of how interior space and lighting may be used in a conventional as well as at- ..._ tractive atmosphere. In ad- dition, its QSeof pictures further enhances the image of Union it is trying to project. Externally, the building is in the Ramee tradition and one he would be proud of. ( ++++) · . Hl)manltie~ and Social ~clences Bulldings~The~e buildings finaUy underwent much~needed repairs this past swnmer and I may now gladly say that no longer are the seats torn in SS016 or the paint peeling in the downstairs classrooms of the Humanities Building. However, the mens' {and I assume w.omens') bathrooms could be taken better· care oL It should not take several months for fixtures to be replaced or obscenities to be taken off the walls. In other areas, the increa~i.ng presence of computers makes these buildings_ seern even more arowded. Howeverj I suppose the original architects could not have envisioned such an in- vasion. Externally, I am very pleased with the .covering of the original red bricks with gray material to let the buildings blend right into the Ramee campus. ( +++¥.!) \-?-<u. NI ON COLLEB.E CONCERT BAN i n vi tes you to enjoy vr/n &teni11fj of uflt14t.'c · with the CONCERT BAND and the GARNET QUINTET Scb.affer Llbrar)'-The library fits right in with Ramee's plan and is a fine example of how a building may rese~nble the architectural style ofthe old, while being relatively new:. Also it serves more than its des~gned .purpose by being bOth an academic and {un- fortunately) social center. A four star rating is lacking, however, due to desks and chairs that wobble, poor lighting, strange noises that come from the heating system, and a book detection system that is a danger to all heart pacemaker wearers. ( +++) Peschel Computer Center~ For a \computer place\ this. really is not that bad. However, the building is already obsolete in that the computers take up so much room that an ever- increasing amount of space in Steimnetz must be given over to the poor, helpless CS majors. Further the.l>uilding looks like an orphan squashed as it is by venerable old Butterfield on one side and Steinmetz on the other. (++) AII.Night Study (New edition to library)- This building looks like a strange ·creature from outer space that attached itself to Schaffer Library-much like the being in \Alien\ that - devoured every human it could cling to. Although I realize more space was needed, certainly a more logical looking structure could have been decided upon. (+Vz) Science and Engineering Center-The S&E Center looms eerily behind the Social Sciences Building waiting for the day it will arise and devour the rest of the campus. Inter- nally, the recent wood paneling on the third floor, put in every third window as a heat-saving measure was the final step in making this one of the most nauseating buildings ever constructed. I have already writt·en to Yuri Andropov, asking him to have the nuclear bomb aimed at Schenectady pinpointed on this structure. For those who doubt that a modern-day science building can be attractive, invite them to go see the Bronfman Science Center at Williams. ( +) Bill Wall (L) and Dave Josephson (R), the owners of Slapshots, which will be open after Christmas vacation .. . Alumni to open bar Slaps hots By DREW HURLEY The first Hand-stephen's Bar Guide reported that Kelly's Bar was closed. This is so, but if the guide had been a little more in- depth, the authors would have known that two recent Union graduates have bought Kelly's Bar and Restaurant. They plan to have it open again by early December under the new name of Slapshots. · Dave Josephson '80, and Bill Wall '82 say that they have always planned to start a business since their un- der-graduate years at Union. Bill Wall says, \The bar business seemed like the natural business since we both enjoy people and are no strangers to a bar at- mosphere.\ Wall, a Psi Upsilon borther, is from Philadelphia. He is in the process of leaving his job i&'l Chicago to devote full time to Slapshots. alternative off-campus. For this reason, the two businessmen plan to build this business with an emphasis on the college coinmunity. They plan to have Slapshots available for private functions as well as having various nitely specials. Once open, the kitchen will produce a full lunch menu and serve \finger type' 1 foods day and evening. Both Wall and Josephson are four year lettermen in hockey. They say though, \Slapshots won't be hockey orientated, and people from Schenectady are more than welcome.\ \We want to continue the fine tradition of Kelly's. Slapshots will just be. more Union orientated. We feel that with its ideaJ:.location (on the comer of Hattie and Foster Ave.), and the atmosphere we plan to create, Slapshots will be an ideal Union hangout.\ More on tb.e Guide II In conclusion, let it be said Dave Josephson, a Chi Psi brother adds, \We believe a bar with a college atmosphere is the best for us, and as recent graduates we haven•t lost touch with waht undergraduates like to do socially.'' Josephson has already left his job and home in Ontario and is currently transforming Kelly's into Slapshots. Geppetos received two stars for being a former Union student hangout and having video games. The guide failed to mention that a Union student bartends on Wednesdays at Geppetos and that Wednesday is unofficially \Union nite.'' Posters • Godiva Chocolates Kites • Teddy Bears Thanksgiving Cards Christmas Cards And or1naments Monday tnru Saturday 10:30-5:00 Tuesday thru Thursday unti I 8:30 164 Jay Street Schenectady, New York 12305 Phone 5-18-374-2803 ~:~-.:+:<:~,~~~~,>~~:~.~;~~~~ I \' . ... ·~·~ OVERSiGHT BY ·THE BAR GUIDE . - I 1 We're Here Too.! ~ I 'J;be Blockhouse I 1_'.'_. BEEF & BREW ~ I s STARS FOR THE STARS I ; -Fabulous Food 1 ~ -5 Nights of Entertainment ~ I FOOSBALL, PINBALL, VIDEO! a I KITCHEN OPEN ALL NIGHT I ~ .. that the architecture of a school is often our first and lasting impression of it, so the least we can do is make it something to be proud ·Of. Wall and Josephson feel for various reasons that the un- dergraduate students are in search of a Pub and Skellar 1983-84 Winter Term Regi~tration Procedures Winter term classes will begin at 8:30a.m. on Tuesday, January 3rd. Student schedules will be distributed to college inai I boxes prior to the beginning of classes. Students Who do not receive a copy of their class schedule will be able to secure a copy at the Alumni Gymnasium at 8:00a.m. on the first day of classes. Fbrmal registration and validation of I.D. cards will take place In the Alumni Gymnasium on Tuesday and Wednesday, January 3rd and 4th, from 8:30a.m. to 11:30 a.m. and from 1:00 p.m. to 4:00p.m. Students should repo.rt as follows: Last Name A-E F-K L-R s-·z Report Monday morning Monday afternoon Tuesday morning Tuesday afternoon Students ma.y report at a time other than above should classes interfere. Registration Will not be permitted if a student has not settled his winter term bill or any other indebtedness to the College. The Business Office will handle· late payment of term bills and resolve billing problems at the Gymnasium, Completion of and changes in schedules will be handled at the Gymnasium from 8:30a.m. to 4:00p.m. except for the noon hour. MOnday, January 9th, is the last day for making schedule adjustments. \Pass-Fai:l\ requests may be filed during the first weel< of the term. The deadline is <!ISO January 9th . While on Union bartenders, you can find a Union student mixing drinks at Station No. 3 on Tuesday and Friday nites. AHention All Students Interested in Applying to Health Professional Schools Next Yeor Socialized Medi- ca I term abroad is coming next summer Meet with Dr. Roth Monday, Nov. 14, 4:45 p.m. and Thurs., Nov.' 17, 7:00 p.m., Bailey Hall 102 c Cl.l Cl c c 811 > Qj s... s... Cl.l I- > ..0 0 - 0 .s::: a.

PagelO CONCORDIENSJS, November /0, 1983 FoUI'Ifkd at Umon Coll~t 18?? --~-------- ~--------- Tough Times Another term in the life of Coneordiensis has ended. As we reflect upon the events of the past eight weeks, ambivalence is about the most positive feeling that can be mustered. Our pages have been splashed with news .of fights, vandalism, apathy and legal conflict.. On our confined little campus, this is a bit unnerving .. Concordiensis, though, has: no control over the actions of people- on campus; we're just a newspaper that reports the news, good or bad. Our reporters and editors derive no sadistic pleasure. from reporting on distasteful events or people's misfortunes. Admittedly, to our chagria, this tabloid is not the New York Times, and our jour~ nalistic prowess and judgement may not always be comparable to theirs. Keep in mind, though, that we are not producing a weekly brochure on ·Union College, nor do we contrive these stories ourselves. Certain other problems of a more administrative nature have also plagued us this term. We have battled the student- forum and finance committee nearly all term as they repeatedly pass and rescind proposals concerning our subscription policies. Then again, they, too, are only trying to do their jobs. At the same time,. boekkeeping errors of the past have resulted in tighter, inhibiting restrictions on out funds, though present editors were not in office when the mistakes were made. Attrition has taken its toll as well. Concordy presently has fewer people on its staff than it has had in several years. Enthusiasm and initiative, at least toward student activities, just don't seem to be characteristics of the Union student anymore. Even some of our reporters who become unwilling or unable to write the stories they were assigned fail to contact the appropriate editor so that another staff member could handle them. People just don't care about the quality or successes of student activities; resumes don't record the quality of one's par- ticipation outside academics, they orily state that the participation existed. The rewards of the conscientious become fewer and fewer, while the frustrations continue to grow. Briefly returning to the recent physical abuses on campus, we must reemphasize a need to curtail this type of activity; Give Concordy some positive aspects of Union on which to report, and we will jump, no, lunge, at the chance. Our staff joins Anne Murray in singing \We Sure Could Use a Little Good News Today,'' but we can't print it unless it occurs. Concordiensis, like so many other struggling organizstions on this campus, needs bath physical and ideological support. Send some encouragement this way next term. In the meantime, may per- formance on final exams and spirit of the holiday season not be a reflection of these critical and apathetic attitudes. Calendar Change The new proposal to restructure our trimester system deserves our careful attention, for it offers a viable alternative to the inefficiencies of the present calendar. If this plan is put into effect, we will see the winter term split over the Christmas vacation, with three weeks before and the remainder after, returning in January. The fall term would begin immediately· following Labor Day and exams would be completed before Thanksgiving. Other benefits of the idea include finishing the spring term in May, which would make summer jobs more accessible to many, by no longer getting out three weeks after all other colleges. Spring break might also correspond tp those of other schools, and be extended to two full weeks. The January to June stretch would be much ·more bearable after being shortened by two or three weeks and the only vacation dollbled in length. Profesrors might argue that the first section of winter term would not be taken seriously, but if quizzes or exams were given prior to vacation, this notion could be eliminated. Students, let the administrators know your reac- tions to this plan, and emphasiz~ the positive benefits. Administrators, give this proposal your most serious consideration. The concept is a worthwhile one, and onethatdeserves our well-fotmded support. - .. LETTERS An Editor's Response To tbe Editors: · Last week a letter was printed . entitled \Articles Critiqued.\ I would like to r~pond ta the criticisms made. I am not defend,ing Coneordlensis or ·myself, although I strangly · disagree with the accusations ·made, but I hopetogive a better · understanding to the letter's author,. whoever he may really be, by answering this so.called \critique.\ No letter that condemns an issue of Con· cordJensis, regardless of a final congratulatory paragraph, can ga ·· unnoticed for a con- demnation of one portion of the paper is a denunciation of the entire collaborative effort. First off, I WQuld like to respond to the letter's statement that in essence \older news'' is not worth reporting. Does that mean that since an event did not occur wiUtin a certain time period before Con cord lens is' . publication date then said story should not be reported on at all? Does that imply that the story is outdated so it should be ignored? I do not agree with this notion. Although news may not · be current, it still can remain topical. The Sloan Foundation, • for instance, will have effects on ·Union not only during the three yeat·s of its funding, but for years to c.ome. Since many of its seminars occur dljring sununer recess; they cannot be related to the public until some time af- terward. According to the aforementioned letter this time span would constitute amory as being too old for publication by the time Union recommenced for fall term. However, the letter's author does not believe · this delayed reporting as im- WR'UC SPORTS Tomorrow: Hockey V$. AI C 7; 15 Saturday: Football vs. Hamilton 1:15 Tuesday: Hockey at Plattsburgh 7:15 Thursday: Hockey vs. North Adams 7; 15 Record Hop at the PUB WiU Be Friday Night NOV. 11 (Instead of Thursday) THIS WEEK ONL Yl proper journalism. In regards to ;the. suggestion . that >the Colby semmar ha:ve been discussed rather than the Wellesley seminar, deadline is an answer to that. Cou- cordiensls is laid out on Tuesday evenings while the prograxn occurred over the previous weekend. This does not allow a reporter time to discuss the topic with the weekend's participants nor does it allow the members time to reflect on theb· experience. A viable explanation of the· Weekend's effects ~,>n its participants and Union can nardly be expected to be. given on such short notice. Another point worthy of note is that because of the nature of news whereby one week a lot happens while another week relatively little occurs, some stories must. 'be shelved for those uneventful weeks. Some issues do not·need to be reported on upon their occurence. It is these stories which are held over. Again, this nor any of my statements are excuses,. they are just facts that should. be understood. In this case I believe even the letter's author can ·realize this aspect of the news field. Union is a relatively small campus and although. it has its share of newsbreaking events, it cannot be counted on for a steady flow of \hair raising\ occurences. Also, although Concordiensis attempts to be everywhere at once, it obviously cannot be .. The staff is comprised ·of students wh.o have other obligations other than · to just Concordiensis. Therefore, unless -the campus community makes continued efforts to submit ideas for stories to the paper then complaints cannot Editors-in-Chief News Editors Features Editor Associate F.eatures Editors · Arts Editors ~us Page Editors Sports Editors Advertising Editors be taken in the same vein. S~apegoat$ ·are always prevalent. Concordlensls needS · writers and ideas. Unless the . students, faculty, and ad- ministrators are willing to help · in the ways Jhat they can then, · flak will remain criticism by people who f.ind ·u easier to complain than to aid in~ bet· tering their college paper. It's easy to criticize . . . easy to sit back and watch without doing · anything. This is not a vengeful letter,· believe me. Concordfensis welcomes anu enco·urages letters to be submitted by concerned members of the campus community. Therefore, this letter is merely an answer· · to accusations , made by someone who obviously believes it is better to criticize rather than- to help change what he views as being a problem, regardless of whether I agree· with that belief or not. All I ask . is that before one condemns Concordiensis, he should aid in rectifying these SJ.!pposed problems through writing ar· ticles, specifically news for he found no fault in any other area. Also bringing news ideas to the attention of the news editors is · more than appreciated. Please know that the letter in question bas been taken into con- sideration, but I hope this letter in turn will also encourage future assistance in another more constructive manner. Also please ·note that this is a letter written by me and, coruy as it sounds, does not necessarily reflect the views of' · the Concordiensis staff. Respectfully Submitted Gayle Rosenfeld , News Editor . Julie Abehnan, Doug Landon Jay Baruch, Gayle Rosenfeld Dmma Getson Dave Fitzgerald, Franklin Schneider Debbie Albert Karen Lissauer Karen Greaves, Jill Kaufman Drew Hurley, Paul Kurker Mary Ann Gagliar9i, Heidi Rosen Layout Advisor Peter Mohr Photo Editor Mary Phillips Associate Photo Editor Daphne Chigas Sports Photo Editors Robert Tang, Bonnie Rosenberg Subscriptions Editor Lori Kaplan Political Cartoonist · David Neiblum Staff Jan Baran, Robert.Bassin, Jil1Bra<J1ey, Jodi Brenner, Andy Chang, TodDimmick, Lou George, Sam Gifford, JoshGreene, Chris Hand, Lynn Hano, Dave Marin, Christine .Marsching, Robin Molella, Matt Nankin, Lori Oliwenstein, Judy Philipson, Steve Piraino, Linda Raffaele, Wendy Richards, Rob Bissell, Debbie Rose, Margot Salisbury 1 ·Barrie Stahl, Peter Stegemann, Judie Steinhardt, Janice Thompson, Aaron Toffler, Betsy Treitler, Sherry Weitz en, Philip .Westerman, Debbie Wiener, Scott Wykoff, Linda ZahnleJJ.ter Photo Staff Jon Barofsky, Jim Campbell, David Dworkin, Larry Kaminsky, Liz Karazim, Paul Klein, Pat Merritt, :Patti Sacks, Larry Shapiro CONCORDIENSIS is published· every Thursday by th~ student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Sc.henectady, New·. York 12308; Publications Office: Susqueha.nna Publications, Inc., Box 388,. Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563- 7151. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as first class p1atter. ~ttbscriptio~ rate, $18 per year, delivered anywhere m the Uruted States. Office Telephone •371Hill>5. CONCORDlENSIS ·subscribes tci the College Press Service (CPS)! andutilizesthe_College News Bureau (QNB) .. ... - ...... s T st T n c wrU Be a A was som the was an corn allo· anh dist: foot' Tl dis a repc was Artu any plac peo1 take talk: mail Arrr. Rea, Poil hors A< him Gre1 Pre~ on ~ Dav ship and tree:

CONCORDIENS/S, November 10, 1983 Poge 11 -COMMENTARIES *CABARET* News From Washington Come See An AMAZING Cabaret Tonite! Bill Bashant .. A, Fantastic Folk .Singer and' \Jhe Shades A Fabulou~ Band Sh.owsat 8;.45 ond 1 0:45 Beer., Wine, Ctleese & Crackers wH I be servrd Tickets on sa.le at Student Activities Desk There is an amazing show planned for next; Thursday, November 17. Look for a poster in·. Carnegie. Qy JACK ANDERSON and JOE SPEAR WASalNGTON -There's an untold story behind the dramatic events on the Caribbean ialand of Grenada. It is the tale oftwo women, both of them fiery, left-wing radical$. Their personal feud helped to bring do.wn . the Marxist _government of Grenada. It was a classic Stalinist purge that led Grenada's neighbOJ;s to collaborate with the United . States in forming a six-nation invasion force. · The chain of events that ctilnlinated in the invasion may have started with a bitter battle between Prime Minister Maurice Bishop's mistress, Jacqueline . Creft,. and Deputy Prime Minister Bernard Coard's wife, Phyllis. Intelligence sources say that ideol'ogical and personal dif· ferences between the t:wo women stirred up tension between the two leaders. Bishop was a popular figure, particularly with the island's youth and its women. He for- med a \national Institute for Women\ and also appointed his mistress as the education minister.· Pylllis Coard was jealous and reportedly urged her husband to depose the prime minister. Our sources say she was definitely involved in plotting Bishop's overthrow. . According to intelligence reports, Bishop and his mistress were last seen with their hands in the air as they were being led away by revolutionary g11ards. Both were reportedly executed, though a governnient statement claimed the prime. minister Was shot in an exchange of gunftre with anny troops. What happened to Phyllis Coard and her husband? Tbey were captw·ed in a hideout by American soldiets.and taken to the USS Guam · for in,. terrogation. Pentagon . spokesmen would not ~.ay where thev will' be taken next, but other sources said -tlley would be handed over to the interim government of Grenada and eventually put on trial. The invasion of Grenada, meanwhile, may be an ominous sign of the direction the Reagan administration wants to tak~ in Latin America. Another ominous sign is a sketch that was included in a secret briefing paper prepared for the commission on Central America, headed by fonller Secretary of State Flenry Kissinger. The drawing shows Gulliver tied down by Lilliputians. But the Gulliver in the sketch isn't the hapless character who was the hero of Jonathon Swift's biting 18th century satire. This Gulliver represents the United States, and the ropes that tie the pitiful,helpless giant down • are the restrictions Congress has put on the president and the Pentago in matters of foreign policy. The ropes are identified as various parts of three laws: The War Powers Act, the Foreign Assistance ·Act and the Arms Export Control Act. The drawing is labeled ''Obstacles to Policy Implementation.'' The Reagan administration apparently wants to cut all these legal ropes and let Gulliver loose to go crashing around the world without having to bother with the Lilliputians on Capitol HiJI. . UNDIPLOMATIC DISCRI- MINATION II: Last month, we reported that the State Department had tried to hush up a sex discrimination scan· dal. The department had settled a discrimination suit out of court to avoid publicity. As the negotiations were being concluded, another sex scandal bubbled up. This one involves widespread sexual harassment in the foreign service. A cable from the State Department to all U.S. diplomatic posts states that \sexual harassment continues to be a pervasive problem.'' The cable says that 42 percent of the womeri and 15 percent of the men who work for the U.S. government have been the victims of some sort of sexual harassment. The cable points out that sexual harassment covers a wide range of unwelcome behavior. The \most severe\ category consists of \actual or attempted sexual assault.,. \Severe•t includes \pressure for sexual favors, phone calls and letters.\ \Less severet' harassment means \suggestive looks or gestures, uninvited sexual teasing, jokes, remarks or questions.\ The State· Department's research shows that only three percent of the diplomatic personnel who had been sexually harassed filed an of- ficial complaint. PAPER TIGER?: With the invasion of Grenada, the United States put on a show of strength. But the Navy was ill-prepared to back it up. We have seen a secret General Accounting Office report which discloses that naval readiness is dangerously less than it should be. Aircraft carriers, for example, are critically short of munitions and spare parts. The auditors report, however, that the Navy's figures have been fudged so that forward forces can claim battle readiness. Our sources suspect the numbers have been doc- tored so that allocated funds can be used for the construction of new ships rather than the purchase of needed parts and arms. Bless enca. CONCORDIENSIS el- ections for the editor- . in-chief positions for written by: 'War Correspondent Beauregard Smith A couple of weekends ago I was graci~usly invited to spend some time at Camp David with the President ·and his wife. It was a won.derful place and I had an excellent time. My only complaint is that. I was only allowed t() see the President for an hour, and even worse, from a distance eq11al to about three football fiel!ls. This might sound a little disappointing, especially for -a reporter, but it wasn't at all. I was able to witness an event in American history which few if any people ever knew took place. Or for.- that matter, most people . will never know it did take place. The event I'm talking :about is when Com- mander ln. Chief of all American Armed Forces, Ronald Wilson Reagan, stol\''Iled the airport at Point Salines, Grena-da, on horseback. Actually I didn't get to see him 'storm the actual site in · Grenada. 'What I did see was the President practicing the routine on a ·cleared-off hill at Camp David. The White House shipped in. SCJme extra marines and James Watt to clear off all trees and any wildlife from the , . ...:fan ~n. -,... --_, area. When the director yelled which was disguised as a Cuban action, all of these green clad transport plane. Once the ex- army rangers, -marines, and plosions ceased, yet the fires other military personnel still raged, the President jlijllped up out of nowhere and jumped from his mount started racing for the airstrip at brandishing an M-16-firing at the Presidential Retreat. the cameras of course. Yup, you guessed it, Ronnie Fie zig-zagged back and forth was right there in front ·Of this through this scene of dec- rampaging mass leading our truction and carnage until found forces on to imminent victory. an injured American soldier You didn't think our President only a few feet from the burning rode horses for pleasure, did mass of George Bush's personal you. shuttle. At that time he slung God, what a proud sight to see the poor stand-in over his on a fine crisp Saturday mor- shoulder and carried him over ning. The President was to the field medical-unit. Flere wearing his riding boots and he placed him in the .hands of jockey pants. He had this finely Alan Alda-I guess they wanted tailored Brooks Brothers, to make this a bipartisan double breasted military jacket invasion scene and also attract on. His whole uniform fit so more viewers for the Nielsen tightly I still haven't figured out ratings. he was breathing through all of Nancy was supposed to show the action. Best of all, though, , up at this point in a nurse's ·he had on a fine Stetson which uniform. She was to commence had six gold general's stars her anti-drug-use classes for all pinned on the front of it. of the native children. I was also The entire scene took about told that any American military twenty-five minutes to com- personn~l there had the option plete. The reason it took so long of auditing these classes instead was due to the fact that they had of fighting. . to stop l\olling the cameras Reports from inside sources when the President got too close say that Nancy refused to dress to the actual airplanes. At that up like a nurse. She said it made time · they let the demolition her look too much like a blue experts move in and blow the collar worker. The scene was livin~ - out of Air Force Two, eventually scr~pped. - summer job workshops FIVE locations ..;. THREE nig~ts! ! ! ~ --=--~ - TUESDAYa NQV;EMBER 15th - FOX LOUNGE and HUMANITIES BLDG. ROOM 115 WEDN:ElSDAY, NOVEMBER 16th ~ DAVIDSON LOUNGE THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17th - RICHMGND LOUNGE (basement) and WEST 2nd floor lounge ALL WO~SHOPS lEGIN PROMPTLY AT ?P.M.. Learn the skills needed to 1and a summer job! Learn about 1n·rorna1;ion intervieWing} networkihg, sourcing, the hidden job ~arket--and much more !1 Be there! The entire edited version of the scene was phenomenal. Some even thought it might Win our hero an Academy Award. But, when the leaders of the participating Caribbean nations heard about the filming they demanded to be included The worst of it was they also demanded to be riding horses leading the charge. · The producers were already running over their budget, so they asked the leaders to supply their own mounts. They returned with four mules, a donkey, and a llama. The director refused to film these beasts so the entire idea, Reagan's clip and all, was ·scrapped. Well, there you have it; a first hand account of what could have been one of the best military engagements to take place in the past forty years. Yet, due to the unresour- cefulliless of a few leaders from tourist trip countries, only I, a film crew, and a few marines on a leisurely leave will ever be able to attest to such an event This could have been a story to tell generations of grand- children. Oh well, we'll just have to wait until the next in- vasion. · winter-spring terms will be held Tuesday, Nov. ·15 at 6_:30 p.m. If interested in running, please give your name to Mrs. Marra in Student Affairs before Tuesday. All editors and staff members who have wriHen at least two articles this term are eligible to vote. Commentaries represent the views of the author and not the Editorial Board of CONCORbiENSIS issue of the fall Publication wi II resume during the second week of winter term, 1984. This is· the -, Concordiensis term. last for ,__

VI tO Ol ,J::. u <11 c: ,J::. c. tO 0 >- .0 ,g 0 .r:::. c. Poge 12 CONCORDIENSJS, Nm•ember 10, f 98.l THE ARTS Mountebanks Presents Bus Stop Concert Band By JANICE C. THOMPSON The Union College Moun- tebanks are performing the play, \Bus Stop\ written by William Inge. The action takes place during the four hours that a :bus is stranded at a small town restaurant due to snow, involving the rapport that develops ·between those ~iranded. The play is about everyone's need for relation- ships with others. The director, Carol King, writes about these relationships in the Director's Message in the .program: \We accept that they are funny and maddening, hateful and generous, demanding and forgiving. We accept that they gladden our hearts and lighten our days, while at the same time causing us worry and grief. Oddly,- when we strip Shauna Bavar and Steve Stransky in \Bus Stop~· away those masks from the faces of our friends and part- ners, we see reflected there, none other than, gurselves.\ Whoever watches ''Bus Stop\ being performed can easily understand and.enjoy it because the theme is common to us all. In fact, many of us have acted in real life as the actors and actresses of the play do: as tbe young, innocent girl who wonders what and how being in This Week at Proctor's By TOD DIMMICK The show opened up at 8:00 on Saturday night to a less than capacity. audience. The others in the audience, like myself, were perhaps wondering what kind of a show could be put on by a group of people with both 'Ballet' and 'Comedy' in their name. The two words are not often associated. Could something like the American Ballet Comedy live up to it's name? The answer is a resounding yes. Far from the usual serious, formal ballet one might expect, the dances and stories often took the form of satire. As an example, take 'the traditional lady of breeding being courted by a gentleman. He advances and she retreats. Then the sophisticated lady suddenly likes the idea of romance and attacks the gentleman passionately, and all semblence of order disappears. A sampling of the skits are Duet For Mating Organisms, where dancers do amazing things with their feet, Black Cockroach Pa.s DeDeux~ fti and the Rembrance Waltz. g Particularly good was Pas De .5 Trois Pour L Psyehologie c: Contemporaine. A favorite ~ dance idea is the explanation of ;_ · the workings of the mind. La .c Psychologie was a satire of tbe ~ workings of the human mind. A -a_ dancer gets tied into tighter and tighter knots until she can't move. It is hard to miss the symbolism. Perhaps the most emotional skit of the night was Smile; a touching story of two clowns trying to make a broken hearted man happy. All of the stories and skits were ap-- propriate and well played. As satire is meant to do, the dances brought to mind the uselessness Performers in\ A Lulu in her Tutu\ of stuffy, overbearing lessons that nobody is interested in anyways. The few parts that were not well done were in the first half of the performame. These stories covered the same sexual theme and tended to get redundant as well as slightly tacky. These unpolisbed sec- tions were insignificant, however, when comp.ared to the whole. · A stirring performance, the American Ballet Comedy creates a microcosm of emotion that can take you away and lift your spirits or dampen them. The performers used hilarious, inspired choreography and love will be; as the enamored· boy who has been r~jected; as the lonely man who Will do anything for his friend, I recomme.nd seeing the Mountebanks' performance of this play very bighly. It is being performed in the Nott Memorial, W.hi ch ts small enough so that the people going to the play feel as if they are a part of the action. They feel as if they are sitting right in Grace's Diner, watching · relationships develop among stranded busriders, a bus driver, two waitresses and a policeman. Melinda Phillips, Eliza Setel, Jon Skinner, Sllauna Bavar, Mitch Bernstein, Adam Storke, Adam Rosman and Steve Strunsky are the actors and actresses, all of which do a fine job at portraying their respective characters. Director Carol King acted in Daro Beninati's production of \Rebel\ during last year's season. She then played Antigone in the Barry Smith· John Adams' production of \Antigone\: It was the moderator of Mountebanks, Mitch Bernstein, who asked her to direct \Bus Stop\. The production staff, actors, actresses and director of \Bus Stop\ have all worked hard to produce this play, which I am sure you will all enjoy very much. The action is funny and sobering, happy and sad, and never boring. The last per- formances will be on November 10, 11, 12 at 8 p.m. Tickets are available at the No1t Memorial Box Office. Tonight the Union College Concert Band will perform at 8 p.m. i,n Memorial . Chapel with special guests, 'l'.he Garnet Quintet. No aQ!nission wiU be charged for the concert, which opens the 1983-84 coneert band season. The evening's .perfonnance will include music from Bern- stein's ballet \Fancy Free\ Dragon's arrangement of \America the BeautifUl'' and ' ' ' Nielsen's .Quintet for Wood- winds Op. 43. Thirty~one Union student& play in the concert band, which was created in 1981 by student advisor Kevin Angus, now a college senior. The band is conducted by Thomas Brown, adjunct instructor in music. Brown is a composer, con- ductor, educator and artist, who has had more than 80 works .published for concert band, jazz ensemble and percussion en- semble. He has appeared as guest conductor and clinician at music conferences and universities through.out the United States and Canada. The Garnet Quintet evolved in 1982 as a result of the chamber music program at Union directed by Hilary Tann, assistant professor of music, who now acts as advisor for the quintet. Its member~ are Sarah Carpenter, flute; Irene Fassler, oboe; Laura Robin, clarinet; David Civale, horn in F; and Stefanie Spanier, bassoon. It will be a great show and everyone should go to the chapel for an enjoyable evening. AnENTION GRADU.ATES Orange Motors has a College Graduate Finance Plan No Previous Credit Reguired Very Little Down No Co-Maker Necessary For Details & Appointment · Call Orange Motors 799 Central Ave. Albany, NY 12206 Ask for Joe Bruno or Vince Cristaldi 489-5414 music that went well with the dancing to create a memorable show.· American Ballet Comedy · created a laughing mood that is good to feel once in a while. The audience was very enthusiastic about the performance. With the enthusiasm, skill and imagination of the dancers, it is not hard to see Why the show was so popular. r found the evening very enjoyable. Proctors is continuing its policy of Student Rush, and there are a lot of perfromances that would .be worth seeing. Coming soon are Mass Appeal, The new Black Eagle Jazz Band, and George Carlin. Anyone interested in being on th~ SENIOR FLING COMMinEE Please attend the first · meeting pn Wednesday, Nov. 16 at 4 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. All Seniors and Un- derclassmen are welcome! Help _make Senior Week the best ever! ·- ........... . No' forr ·Noll No:'\1 No\ Nov Alb< p.m I Nov p.m. Nov. Alba .• ·'!o;::,. (} ,.:.'- :·: .;

- . CONCORDIENSIS,, Nov~mber 10, 1983 Page 13 THE ARTS '• Community Arts Union'S COmedy Troupe Calendar' Theatre · . Nov. 10-12, 15-19: LOOK HOMEWARD ANGEL, SUNYA Per• ·forming Arts Center, Albany, 8:00p.m. 457-'8606. · Nov.ll, 12, 17, 18,19: GEMINI, Siena College, 8:00p.m.783-2527. Nov. 13: GEORGE CARLIN-for information call ~8?.~ 1 rut~ Nov.l7: MASS APPEAL, Proctor's Theatre, 8:00.p.m. 382-1083. Nov. ,3, 15-20: THE GLASS MENAGERIE, Market Theatre, Albany. Thursday-saturd!lY •. 8:00 p.m.; Wednesday, ~:30 & 8:00 p.m.; Sunday, 2: 30p;m. 462:.4534 .. Music Nov. 11, 12: ELECTRIC CITY CHORUS, Proctor's Theare, 8:00 p.m.382-1083. · Nov. 12: ALBANY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA, Palace Theatre, Albany, 8:30p.m., 465-4755, By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Associate Features Editor · On Tuesday Night, November 1, 1983, Union's comedy troupe, the Court GesttJres performed in ·the Cabaret Room. They offered a variety of enjoyable eomedf acts. .Just who . and what; are the Court Gestures? T))ey are (as. said before) the performing comedy group of the college.· ConsiSting of eleven students, their membership. includes: Bill Carey, Mary Carroll, Olivia Listzwan, Tim LoWry, Nina Mogilnik, Craig Shlilmi, Stephanie Stein, Jon R~el, C. J. Zaruba, M·arc Keller; Business mapager, and Chis Hand; Writer. Tile group has been in existence since last year. To say that the Court Gestures offered something different is an understatement. From their unconventional beginning and ending to their use of audience p~rticipation, a flow of humor and consistency was found in their performance. \freeze\. That new member then replaces one of the per- formers ori stage, pursuing a . totally different skit. An obvious · now occured as one actor- actress was replacetl by another, only to then be replaced after delivery of a punchline. Another noteworthy skit was· \Daddy's Special Balloons\ in which two children discover their father's prophylactic collection. The unsuspecting youngsters see the condom as just another plaything, while the parents are heard \playing\ in· the background. Continuing on the teeny hopper .note, was a skit of a pick-up bar for four year oldS. While ordering his favorite \ •\· # This atmosphere of freshness and spontaneity was most evident in the \Freeze\ skits, title so based on their action. Two or more actors would in- teract on the stage until a member of the side yells out C.J. Zaruba and Craig Sttalmi performing improvisations · · . 'th the . . 's 7 & 7UP.\\ It also stus -:~ce fever. . coot refres~ing tr:ste;:Jd~~~f:Oa:.the perfect partners ford dance fever sttrs ers and. enjoyed m • snen & Snera © 1983. SEAGRAM DISTILLERS CO., Nl, N.Y. AMERICAN WHISKEY-A BLEND. 80 PROOF: \Seven:Up'' and \]UP\ are trademarks of the SevenUp Company. Stagrl\nrs glass of regular milk, a young \stud\ buys a drink for his prospective, Sitting at the end of the bar alone. He saunters over to her end and a conversation ensues. The scene soon ends as we hear the child gent offer \My sandbox or yours.\ A variety of social and J20litical issues often became tbe subject of the Gestures' scathing, yet entertaining humor. The scene was the White House and President Reagan and Nancy (The Queen of Hollywood) are discussing possible vacation sites. Nancy just loves that little island of Grenada; such lovely beaches, a perfect resort site. Why shouldn't we invade it. This was followed by the Gestures' rendition of \Hello Mother, Hello Father (Here I am, down in. Grenada-Ronny sent us. I don't know why, but I'm having fun watching Cubans d.ie)\. These examples just highlight the atmosphere of originality that permeated the evening's entire performance. All of the acts possessed a noticeable freshness. None of the acts were exce·edingly long; the audience's attention was kept through all of them. Good show, Gestures. . Carolyn Odell Returns to ~nion College Carolyn Odell, an ac- complished area performer, will be returning to the Union . CoUege Coffeehouse on Friday, November 11. For the past few years Ms. Odell llas been performing with the Denver Center Theater Company. Their production of Quilters has toured the Western United States, Scotland, and Ireland. Back from her extensive travels, Ms. Odell · is again performing at area cof- feehollses. Union College Coffeehouse welcomes her return. The performance will begin at 8:30 p.m. and tickets are available at Carnegie Box Office for $1.50. Come on over. and enjoy a fine perfonnance on the acoustic guitar. If) c. -· .s:: 0.. >- I.. 10 ~ >- .c .E 0 .s:: c. -

Puge 14 CONCORDIENSIS, November 10, 1983 CAMPUS NEWS SCHOLARSHIPS Washington, D.C.-Th,e second annual Scholarship Essay Competttto:n for Inter- national Students has been · announced by Tom St. Denis n, Vice-President of the spon- soring firm, INTERNATIONAL UNDERWRITERS-BROKERS, Inc., of Washington, D.C. The first prize.is$1;000to be used for academic or professional ad- vancement. The contest is open to any full time foreign student who is enrolled in a prescribed degree- ·or certificate-'-granting program at an accredited high school, junior college, college or Wliversity within the U.S., or any student currently enrolled' in an English language training program who plans to continue into higher education in the United States. - For additional iilformation, rules,. and entry f()rms, write: Scholarship Coordinator, International Underwriters- Brokers, Inc., 1511 K Street, N.W., 923 Investment Building, Washington, D.C. 20005. SPEAKERS Amnesty International presents a lecture by professor Bruce Reynolds of the Economics Department en• titled, \Human Rlgllts in China- ·Unnet!essary Sacrifice.\ This event is to be held in Strauss Lounge - on Wednesday, November 16 at 7:30 ,p.m. Thomas J. Purner, Chainnan of the Board, Matthews International Corp. and Union College Fall Term Executive- in-Residence will speak on \Respoasibilities of ·,Top Managemeat\ on November 10, IJ) 10 .'? .c u (!1 c: .c a. 10 0 >- ..0 0 .... 0 .c c. 0 !... ·a. 10 .c <I) >- !... !... Ill _J >- ..0 0 () .c Q, !983 at 3:45 .p.m. in Room 312, Bailey Hall, Union College. ·FELLO WSHIPSI INTERNSHIPS Housing assistance and financial assistance may be available. Interested students should call -Ray Dennison at (202) 393-1:539 or (202) 628-1200 (call collect) or write to him· at the Public Defenders Service, 451 Indiana Ave. NW, Washmgton, D.C. 20001. Callion!a Senate Fellowship Program: Nine-month fellowship for college graduates interested in gaining first-hand knowledge of, and experience in, the legislative proc.ess. Responsibilitiel'l: legislative research and ··ill analysis, · const-ituent · ·casework; · · ad- rninistrati:ve duties. Monthly stipend: $1,250. Application deadline: February 1, 1984. Information also available in the Political Science depart- ment. Northwestern Mutual Life Internship: For Jtmiors and Seniors seeking good paying part-time jobs with potential full-time career after graduation. Training sessions starting immediately. · Common Cause Internship Program: Common Cause, a nonprofit, nonpartisan citizens' lobbying organization that works to improve · the way federal and state governments operate, is developing in- ternships for studentsto work in ()ne of three roles: 1) Resear\ cher and Writer, 2) Field Coordinator, 3) PR and Media. Professional Internships with Capital Repertory Company: Capital Rep is providing in- ternships' to provide motivated students with an intensive and practical education within the context of a working professional theat·re organization. . Operation Enterprise: AMA, the world's largest and best~ known organization, in the field ·of management and education, js offering a chance for students to see and hear first~hand from business leaders what a management career is like and how to prepare for it through two Operation Enter.prise Progr,ams beginning January 1984. The three-week program runs .from January 3-27 and the four-week- program runs from January 3-27. If a student chooses, he or she can earn college credit in either program. Location: Eckard College, St. Petersburg, FA. Great for December graduates. Fellowship awards worth $4,000 a year will be granted to a limited number of Garden State residents who will attend New Jersey graduate institutions during the 1984-85 academic year through the Garden State Graduate Fellowship Program. To recei:v:e consideration for a Garden State Graduate Fellowship, contact your college's Graduate Office or Office of Career Counseling and Placement or write to the New Jersey Department of Higher Education, Garden State Graduate Fellowship Program, CN 540, Trenton, New Jersey 08625. For more information, call the toll free hotline number, 800-792-8670, Monday through · Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Students· m~ complete the application for the Garden State Graduate Fellowship for the 1984-85 academic year and submit jt to the Department of Higher Education at the· above address on or before March 1, 1984. HELP WANTED Partutlme job as · an engineering asslst~t. HQurs are from 8 to 5 p.m. Drafting skills, trigonometry, statics, hand-tool experience required. . Dynamic and plastic ex- perience helpfuL For further information call Craig Lewis or Scott Crandall at 783-7776. Tuesdays or Thursdays, 3-4:30 ·p.m. Varsity Basketball Team manager needed-If interested please contact coach Bill Scanlon as soon as possible. VOLUNTEERS Students needed-Wednesday, November 16 between 10 and 2:00 to help. distribute eheese to the· poor and elderly. Tran- sportation supplied to local sites. Please leave your name With the Campus Ministry Office. CLUB NEWS Newnian Club is sponsoring a trip to Proctor's to see \Mass Appeal\. This will be on Thursday, November 17th at 8:00 p,m. Tickets from $7.50 or less with Union I.D. half hour before performance meet in front of Carnegie-7:15. Newman Club-Monday at 8 p.m. in 4th floor Carnegie, Fr. John. Provost, the new pastor at St. John the Evangelist, wijl Qe present to listen to studen~s e,Xpectations of him and parish and · to hear suggestions for ways the Parish ·can better serve Union's students. Anorexia Nervosa~Bulimia self-help group m~ets every' 1st and 3rd Monday of each month from 7-9 p.m. ·in the lower level of Silliman HalL AU are welcome', confidentiality upheld. On Monday, November 21 our guest speaker will be Dr. John Jenks from .-t\l'bany Medical College. · CAMPUS MINI$TR Y ~ampus . Minisk}'....:Tlmrsday Nov.ember 17th, 4:00 p.m. Campus Ministry Offi~e ·will be .the place to meet for Bible Study and discussion on Gospel of Matthew with Sr. Joan. On Wednesday, November<16 Campus. Mfuistry will hold ·a informal lecture and discussion with ·Sr. Joan on ''Gon- temparary Issues-Abortion and Divorce.'' The time is 8:00 1un. on the 4th floor Carnegie._ · CAREER INFO . ' Bryn Mawr College will be on campus~,. Monday,: November 28, .1983, fr.om 1.0::30-.12:.00: p.m:. and 1 :0(}-2 l 0'0' p:m. Students may sign up at· any time. Travelers Insurance Com- pany ·will be interviewing on Tuesday, November 15, 1983, for their Data Processing ( AC- CENT) Programmer Trainee Program. Sign Ups Will be on Tuesday, November 8, at 1:00 p.m. For further information, please check Career Development Center. Yale School of Organization and Management will be visiting campus on Friday, November 11, 1983.~ign up at any.time. Ill m Ol :r: v ~ c: .s::. a. IU 0 >- .JJ 0 +- 0 .s::. a. 0 ... ·c. 10 .c <I) > .... .... 10 _J > .0 0 0 .c c. - - ..... c.4 - pr1 ac1 No 1 Ofl J ter He QeJ Nu ·Soc pre sw I me att1 infc COli In Spe me' pro apt: intE pro par can me; witl .befc B Hal 14 No~ • 81 Lak Mot Dec trip: e~ mea and are forn othe Fra1 plea Ad VI orw Lar< W1 for

a Ill ro Cl :2 u (!) c .s:: a. ro 0 > .0 0 0 .s:: a. 0 ,_ ·c. III .r::. til > ... ... ro .J > 0 0 ..... e a CONCQRDJENSIS, November 10, 1983 Page15 CAMPUS NEWS . . . . CLASSIFIEDS Union College CoffeehoUII~ presents: CAROLYN ODELL, acoustic guitarist on Friday, November 11th at 8:30p.m. Tickets available at Box Office: $1.50. Attention aU students ln- ·terested in: Applying to· the Health Professional Sc}lools next year (Medical, Dental, Nursing, Etc.); and The · Socia,lized Medical tenn abroad program for this coming summer- Dr. Roth is holding two meetings (of which you $hould attend one} with · important information on MCAT's, MCAT courses, DA'I:'s, applying, ETC. In addition, Dr. l3aker will Speak in the earlier part of the meetbig about the Soc. :Med. program. Those who are not applying next · year but are interested in the term abroad program may leave after that part of the · meeting. If you cannot attend either of the meetings please leave a note with Pat in Dr. Roth's office .before the ·meetings. Botb wm be held in Bailey Hall 102 on Monday :November 14 at 4·: 45 and Thursday· November 17 at 7:00. . SKI TRIPS: Ski Weekends in Lake Placid · at Whiteface Mountain. Weekends run from December 9 thru March 16. All trips are supervised by an experienced staff. Lift tickets, meals, housing, transportation, and informal, expert coaching are all included. For more in- formation about these trips, and others venturing to Val d'Isere, France and Park City, Utah, please contact Future Stars Ski Adventures: Call (914) 833-0100 or write to 2005 Palmer Avenue, Larchmont, NY 10538. What's fun, is avallable just for Union students, and only happens once a year? Ca'reer Observation Days will take place ip Boston and New York City on December 13, 14 and 15. This is a chance to spend a day \on•the-job\ with a Union ·College alumnus-a. You don't have to be a senior; you don't have· to know what .your career goals are. You only need the desire to spend an interesting day gaining an in- side view of a career you'd like to learn more about! . The· New York City Alumni Club will also sponsor a career panel in December. Students and parents Will be invited to hear representatives of several career fields talk about their experiences in the work world. Details will be CQming to campus mailboxes soon. THIS IS NOT TO BE MISSED! Varsity BasketbaH-A1~ Scrimmage on November 1Z at 7:00 at Field House. Former Union Basketball players will Scrimmage the varsity team on Saturday evening in Memorial Field House. The Scrinunage is open to the general public .. PERSONALS Little girl want a pacifier! Oh talk dirty to me baby! Love always and all ways Happy Frosty: Keep on guessing ... Lisa B.: Did you read the pamphlets that I gave you yet? Real men don't eat third floor Richmond girls! 1st Floor Davidson South .Richmond- . . Thanks for the f!Pirit and for the great Halloween party! ! I We all--lo~e you! - -TheR.A.'s Tux- It's now or never ... -Tiger Film Committee Presents: ''ANNIE HALL'' Nov. 11, 12, 13 7, 9, 11 p.m. \FROM RUSSIA WIT;ll LOVE\- TuEs., NOV. 15 7,9,11 p.m. \PINK PANTHER STRIKES AGAIN\ NOV. 18, 19, 20 $1·.00 7, 9, 11 p.m. SS016 Big Man: How about some lines, since you owe me -for the last time. Who knows, I might run into a snowstonn this weekend if you are lucky, I will bring you a few flakes. -- Mrs. Bean, I'm coming home soon, and I miss you. J.D. & RS. JubJub, Bean Y eh, I could haV'e a three hour affair with her ANDY:· So where's my sea w·eed? MELISSA <Lisa: I miss you. Be good. John Robs-Congrats. We are all behind you. Love L,D,K,H Robs-1 am so 'happy for you. Nothing will ever split us up. I love you. Me P.S. You are the best. . JOSHUA--IS THIS THE YEAR I GET MY PERSONAL? LOVE, YOU KNOW WHO Robert Driscoll .... I'm sorry. Can we still be friends? That way I can still be in your telephone book! Love, Tracy Lenny, Did anyone ever tell you that you have a nice ass? Love, A&L P.S. You have a nice ass Dear Honies, · Hope your colds get better soon-don't forget to take your vitarqins. -• - Love, Sweets and Cutie-pie Anyone ·with a Soloflex build is welcome to apply at ZlO D for an appointment. 'I'o J. of 1068 Wendell Ave. What should we have for dinner- -White Russian ice cream or cal.\obtrailmix???? luv a f~llow shopper. Dear Amy & Ann-In just s· weeks you're out of here. Get Psyched. I'll miss. you crazy chicks-love always Bee-Wod 'l'o our Old Pledges: What would we do without you? Hang in there, you're all terrific. When you least expect it- Love, your SDT sisters Jim H.' . You'll have to settle for No.2! -C.W. Ma chere amie, Je jouis vraiment de nos conversations. De plus en plw; tu me manques. Pinky: Next time-learn the· difference between \'bowls\ and \cans\! Love, Messy Marcy- Thanx for tbe ultimate in orgasmic learning • experience$, but I didn't think you would only last 2 minutes! J.C~- Thanks for the amazing weekend! It's going to be even harder now to go away next term. I sure will miss you! Love, A SDT: Ttte faucet is drip- ping ••• betteJ,\ go call a plumber! Get Psyched! ! ! Sue Golden-(Old English birthday ballad,) 0' why was she born so beautiful? 0' why was she born at all? She's no flippin' use to anyone- ~, She's no flippin' use at all! Happy 21st! Love, all of us Amy: Have a terrific 21st- love, your housemates DB's & Bronner & Crew-rll miss you all when I'm in Greece -Mary Amy: Are you celebrating your 18th or 21st? 700 Couth: It's been a great term, the next can only get better! Hope the next. bottle is Dom Perrignon! Bonzo-I'm having a hell(?) of a time living with you._ But I love every minute (even the purple you-know-whats). But remember, you're on my side. Sambo: You have to stop sleep,ing everywhere, you're giving us a reputation! Dear SRP, Happy 21st I ! Sorry I couldn't be with you the whole time. Better luck on VERMONT IS SKIING Cut a path down a mountain. WeCM! your way along a tree-lined trail. Alpine or cross-co~ntty, there's so much more ro ski- ing Vermont. Send for our free brochures,. arid see what we mean. State of~. · Dept. FY. Montpelier, VT 05602. .,. Please send: 0 Alpine Ski Guide D Inn~ D X-C Ski Guide 0 Full Reson ·•·'\''· D Hotel/Motel I will be in Vermont\\':7\-.--~--~~···· Momh I of f>ars mine! Y.A.~.F, GLR T. T.~·:ltt§· Ski-Please, DON'T WOlutf. You're making me feel very nervous. Remember, I'll always Iove you~ UBS P.S. I'll eat sashimi with you ANY time!! Meredith-I'm psyched you're my little sister. Love, Laura Earthy: How's the eyebrow, and do carrots really work? We are proud to announce the First Annual Sultry Monkey Woman Contest-get your en- tries in now!l! Schema-You've made me very happy. Love, you M-F Pub Partner p.s. HSB tonight Hey Shari and Win, How was last weekend at Colgate? I hear a fun time was had by aD! Spike: \Knock 3 times on the 'wall' if you want me!\ ' Linda Z. I'm not putting in · your last name eause I don't know how to sl>ell.it. Don't call me to take any mQre pictures of you unless it's before 11:30 p.m. I know it was. Keep that pledge pin on. Tell Bob that the wolf on his soup can looks nothing like Duffy the wonder dog. Robert it was great getting Paranoid with you. The man following us won't hurt us if we don't keep looking back. No more movies in Colonie ~ess you get a car. Slinky: Is '84 the year? Better buy a new can of 'Glade'! Hey J.C., This one's for you. You didn't think I'd do it did you? You never thought you'd do it either, though. Sorry, we can't be friends any more-l . didn't see Star Wars again. Oh well. Com up and see me some time anyway. SDT Sr. Neophytes: Be warned of 2 four letter words! Attention. Homecoming Committee-Members ... Chrissy had a baby boy!! Christofer Richard was born on November 4, 1983 and weighs 7 lbs. 3 oz. Mom and baby are both doing fine. Congrats to Chrissy and Richard. Alvin (Gordy )-If you can't find a job-at least you can move washing machines of do nails! Happy birthday Heather, I'm so psyched to celebrate your 17th with you. We're going to have a great weekend so prepare yourself. I wish you the best of luck in the rest of your senior year and hopefully next year you'll be here at Union with me. Love always, Sue A-Thanks for being such a great roomie I I hope you had a great anniversary. Get psyched fortermabroad! It's going to be amazing! Love, A TYPING for students Call: 382-5668 ·. (; ..

Page 16 CONCORD/ENS/~~ November 10, 1983 • I I I • • • \ l • I 1 j • • ' ' . . - . . . : - ' . ' ' ' ,.. ' ' -~ - . : . FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE Fall Term 1983-84 IMPORTANT: This exam schedule is primarily for regular, \day\ undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate Studies and Continuing Education courses will be announced, and students in \Section 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the an- nouncement of the exam time for those courses. · Conflicts should be reported to Mrs. D' Ama·to in the Office of the Registrar not later than November 18, 1983. Examinations will be held in the .assigned rooms. listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. Wednesday, November 30- 9:00-11:00 a.m. Freshman Preceptorial tO-Perception and Persuasion, Sec. 6-G. Gmelch-HU 116 Freshman Preceptorial 10-Perception and Persuasion, Sec. 8- Nichols...SS 014 Latin 130-Catullus and Horace.....Sorum-HU 110 Economics 43-Economic Growth and Developmeilt-Fried-SS 010 English 26- Tragedy-Heinegg-HU 114 History 22-Civil War and Reconstruction-Dudden--ss 012 · History 43-Europe in the Early Modern Era-Hansen-HU 115 History 72- The Early History of the Jews-Berk-Ss 113 German 10-Basic German I -Kellenter-HU 117 . Philosophy 38-0riental Philosophy-Patrik-HU 112 Political Science 58-International Law-Board-SS 115 Political Science 84-Political Sociology- Weiner-ss 117 , Sociology 124-Political Sociology--Weiner-88 117 .. Anthropology tO-Introduction to Cultural Anthropology-S. Gmelch-SS 112 , Biology.l50-Evolutionary Biology-J. Boyer-BH 205 Biology 18o-Biochemistty-Birecka-N 116 Chemistry 40-Quantitatilve Chemistry-Werner-N 222 Chemistry 152-Physical Chemistry II-Hayes-N 014 Geology 51-Qceanography-Dobday-BU 109 Mathematics 146-Advanced Calculus I-8eiken-BH 102 Physics 119-Relativity, Gravitation and Cqsmology...;gchick-N 016 . Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I (For Class of 1987), Sec. 2- Maleki-BH 201 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 4-Lipton-PY · 113 Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 5-8pring-PY 102 Psychology 33-Psychology of Memory and Thinking-Greenberg- PY213 E.L.L. 12-Homes, Buildings, and Engineering Principles- Harlow-BU 106 ~.S.JO-Mechanics I, Sec.1-Lakhanp~l-BU 104 .. ~.;E'~ 165....Systems Analysis-Jewell-BU 300 M.E. 30-Dynamics of Linear Systems-Kennedy-N 210 C.S. 18--lntroduction to Computer Organization-Branch-BU 204 , November 30- 2:00-4:00 p.m. Learning 37-ESP, Spirits and Spontaneous Effects- mwu!-H 114 Art from the Enlighten_Ill.ent through Romanticism, · Modern Art, Part 1-Robbins-AB 104 English 22--Major Authors: The American Renaissance-Gado-HU 115 Philosophy 17 4-Biomedical Ethics-Baker-HU 110 Political Science 51-American Foreign Policy-Gati-ss 115 Sociology 37-Collective Behavior and Social Movements-Lyng- SS113 Sociology 39--Bociology of the Family-Kaplan-88 010 Biology 52-Marine Biology-George, B. Boyer-N 116 Mathematics 18-Introduction to Logic and Set Theory, Sec. 2- Taylor-BH 102 · _ Mathematics 41-Linear Algebra I Sec. 1-Barbanel-BH 201 Sec. 2-Canjar--BU 109 Sec. 3-Niefield-BH 207 Psychology 48-Clinical Methods of Psychotherapy I-Dowling- PY113 . C.S. tO-Perspectives on Computer Langu·ages and Software-E. Robbins-N 012 · AB-Arts Building BH-Bailey Hall · BU-. Butterfield Hall CH--Carnegie Hall . HU-· Hwnanities Building N-. North Wing, Science/Engr. Center · OC--Dld Chapel ·. PY-Psychology Laboratory SS-Social Science Building . Sff--8teininetz Hall Thursday ,~ecember 1-9:00-11 :·00 a.m. Uberal Learning 50-Special Topics in Geology...Stone-BU 109 Latin 10-Principles of Latin-Sorum-HUl12 Economics 11-Elementary Economics, Sec. 1-Kenney-SS 010 Economics 31-Microeconomic Analysis-Klein-ss 117 Economics 32-Labor and Industrial Relations-Prosper....:SSJl5 Economics 42-Macroeconomic Theory and Policy-Kershner....SS 113 Economics 52- The Economy of China--Reynolds-S8 213 . History 11-History and Society: The Modernization and Growth of Global Society-Hansen, Finkelst~in-HU 114 History 18- The United States in the Twentieth Century-Dunar- SS014 History 47-England to 1688--Bargent-SS 012 French 10-Basic F,rench I-Wetterhall-HU 014 • French 131-Introduction to the Study of French Literature- VVarger-EnJ116 . Spanish 133-The Spanish Language in Practical Use 1--Qualtere- HUUO~ Political Science 1h-Gontemporary .. American )Politics; Sec.. 1 ~ · Tidmarch-ss 112 Sociology to-Introduction to Sociology, Sec.1-Lyng-HU 115 . . Biology 32-Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy--Butterstein-BH 201 . Biology 140-Biochemical and Molecular Genetics-Butzel-N 116 Biology 158-Plant Morphology-Frohlich-N 016 Chemistry 10-Fundamental Chemistry I Sec.1-Hayes-BU204 Sec. 2-8caife-BU 204 Sec. 3-Foust-BU 204 Sec. 4-Anderson-BU 204 Sec. 5-8caife-BU 204 Math 18-Introduction to Logic and Set Theory, Sec. 1-Zwickei- BH102 Math 100-0rthogonal Functions and Boundary Values-Bick~BH 205 / . ' Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I {For Class of 1987), Sec. 1- Titus-HU 117 · · Physics .13-Introduction to Physics II .. (Biology, Science, ·Humanities and .Social Science Majors) --Beli-N 014 · Psycf!ology lO-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 2-Girdner-PY 1U · . Psychology 10-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 3--Nydegger- PY 102 · · . · Psychology 46-Introduction to Psychobiology-J. Broida-PY 213 E.S.18-Introducti~n.to Digital Computers-Gajjar-BH 203 E.S. 22--Bcience of Engineering Materials-Milillo-BH 108 E.S. 26- Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer-Ketchum-N 222 C.E.l52-Environmental Engineering 1-Snow-BU 300 E.E. 30-System Theory I-Gurubasavaraj--BH 207 Thursday, December 1-2:00-4:00 p.m. Economics 10-Elementary Economics, Sec. 3 & 4....Schaffer.;...$ 016 . Spanish 12-Basic Spanisb III-DiSalvo-HU 110 Chemi$tty 30-0rganic Chemistry I Sec, 1-Martin-BU 204 Sec. 2-sowa-BU 204 Chemistry 118--Inorganic Chemistry II-Weick-N 116 - C.S. 144-Functional Progra~ng-Wong-:SH 104 . . ' . ' . . . - - \ ' - ' . . ' . -._.- - \;.·· . . - ' ' . . . . ' - ' ' . ' . - .. Ar Ch Ec .. Hi: Hi: . Sal Hi! Hi! llO Fr4 Gel Ru pbj 112 · Po1 Da1 · Pol SSJ ·Soc · Bio Bio: Ph} Ma1 Ph} • Psy PY Psy E.L 102 E.S. E.S. E.S. E.S. E.E Fri Ecc Ecc Ec(] 115 Ec(] Biol Bio1 Phy HUll Phy Mat Phy Psy1 102 Psy~ PY! E.S. E.S. E.S. E.E Mo: Mat Mat -

CONCtJRDlENSIS, November 10, 1983 Poge17 \ FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE Fall Term 1983-84 Frigay, December 2 • 9:00-11:00 a.m. Arts tO-Introduction to the Arts-Dellario, Robbins-AB 002 elassics 21-History of Greece--Toher-HU 115 · . Economics 16-Elementary Economics, Sec. ~Klein-88 117 History 16-America: From Colonies to Nation .... Wells--88 lt3 History 40-:- The Crusades.: Christianity and Islam in Cl)llflict- . Sargent....SS 014 · HistQry 54-Russia in the Imperial Age-Berk-ss 012 ~story .112-Work and Workers in American History-Dud<len....SS 110 . French 12-Basic French III-Wetterhall-HU llO German 12-Basic German III-Mache-HU 116 Russian 10-Basic Russiani-Jernakoff--HU 117\ Philosophy 15-Philosophy and Existential Literature-P~trik--HU 112 · Political Seience 11-Contemporary American Politics, Sec. 2- Daniels-HU 114 · Political Science 1~~-Contemporary International Politics--Gati- . ss 112 . . · Sociology 10-IntroductiontoSociology, Sec. 2-Huggins...SS.Ui Biology 51-Ecology-George-BH 205 Biology 130o-Comparative Anir_nal Physiology-Lambert-Elf 203 Physics 11--Introduction-to Physics I (Engineering, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics Majors )-Davis-BH 207 Physics 15().-Modern Physics I--Reich-N 016 Psychology lO-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 6-Kennedy- PY113 . Psychology 62.;..Practicum in Human,Relations 1-Girdner...:py 102 E.L.L. 31-Technology, Society and Human Values-Ketcllum-BH 102 E.S. 10-Mecllanics I~Sec. 2-Weiss-BU 109 E.S. 22;_gcience of Engineering Materials .... Kapp--BH 201 E.S. 23-Materials in Biomedical Engineering-Milillo-N012 E.S. 30-Mechanics of Deformable Solids-Panlilio-N 014 . E.E. 133-Communication Circuits-Hassib-N 116 Friday:, December 2- 2:00-4:00 p.m. Economics 10-Elementary Economics, Sec. 1-Prosper....SS 112 Economics to-Elementary Economics, Sec. 2-Fried-ss 117 Economics 11-Elementary Economics, Sec. 2 & 3-8chrnidt-ss 115 . Economics 141-Monejary Economics-Phaup-SS 113· Biology 16-Introduction tq Biology I Sec. 1, 2, 3-8chadler-BU 204 Sec. 4- Tobiessen-BU 204 Biology 66~ex and Sexuality-Lambert-BH 201 1 Physics ··u-Introduction to Physics I (Biologyj Sciellce, HUII¥inities and Social Science Majors )-Newman-sH 106 Physics 13-Introduction to_ Physics II (Engineering,. Chemistry, Mathematics and·- Physics Majors )-Beli-N 012 Physics 22-Electronic Circuits-J ones-N 222 Psychology to-A First Cour~e in Psychology, Sec.l-Huntley--FY 102 '· Psychology 20-Statistical Methods in Psychology-Greenbel\g- PY213 E.S. 20-Mechanics II--Panlilio-N 116 E.S. 26-Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer-8han~brook...;N 014 E.S. 30-Mechanics ofDeformableSolids-Weiss-BU 106 E.E.143-Electromagnetic Engineering 1-Branch-N 016 Monday, December 5 -·9: 00-11:00 a.m. Math 10-Calculus I Sec.l-Fairchild-BU204 , Sec. 2-8tone-BH 203 Sec. 4-Rosenthal-BH 201 Sec. 5-Muckenfuss-BH 207 Sec. 6-8artna-ss 115 Sec. 9-8eiken-BH 106 Sec.lO-Neifield-.BU 109 Math 12-Calculus II Sec. 1-Muckenfuss-BH 207 Sec. 2-Lysko-BU 106 Sec. 3-Gillette-BH 104 Sec. 4-Canjar-BH 102 Sec. 5-Fairchild--BU 204 Sec. 6-Bick-BH 205 Sec. 7-Fairchild-BU 204 Sec. 8-Zwicker-BH 108 Math 14-CalcllltlS III Sec. 1-Maddaus-ss 112 Sec. 2-Barbanel....SS 117 Sec. 3...Sarrna-ss 115 C.E. 142-8oil Mechanics-Harlow-Bl] 300 Monday, December 5- 2: OG-4 :;00 p.m. I L.L. 55-Images ()f the Sea-Kaplan, Morris, B. Boyer, Schadler, Weiss-BH102 · Greek 10-Principles of Greek-8orum-Hu 110 History 25-Histcry of the American Frontier-Dunar-ss 117 History 61-Latill America in the Colonial Period'-Bristol-ss 113 German 137-German Literature Since 1945-Kellenter-HU 116 German 144-Speeial Topic in the Twentieth Century-Kellenter- HU116 . Philosophy 20-Classical Logic-Kaminsky-HU 112 Political Science '63-Political Parties and Interest Groups- Tidmarch-88 US Mathematics 30-0rdinary Differential Equations Sec.l-Rousseau-BH 104 Sec. 2-Mad<laus-BH 201 Sec. 3-8tone--BH 203 Sec. 4-Lysko-BH 106 Psychology 198-Senior Thesis in Psychology-Nydegger--PY 213 C.S. 136-Advaneed Programming Techniques, Sec. 1 & 2-Wong- N016 Math 08 ( A.O.P. )-Pre-Calculus Mathematics- Yeater-BH 108 Tuesday, December 6 - 9:00-11:00 a.m. Hebrew lo-Basic: Hebrew I-Heckelman-HU 117 Hebrew 133...;Tbe.Hebrew Language in Practical Use-Heckelman- ·HU117 Russian 133-The .Russian Language in Practical Use I-Jemak:off- ·HU116 Spanish 10-Basic Spanish I, Sec.l-Qualtere-HU 114 Spanish 10-Basic Spanish I, Sec. 2-Ginsberg-HU 114 Accounting 10 (Tues.-Thurs. Sec. )-Financial Accounting-Hurley- ·BH-207 Psychology 38-Developmental Psychology-Benack- PY 113 E.S. 41-ElectricCircuits I, Sec.1-Craig-BU 109 E.S. 41-ElectricCircuits I, Sec. 2-Chang-BH 201 C.S. S7-8tructured Progr~ng, Sec. 1 & 2-Hannay-BU 204 Tuesday, December 6- 2:00-4:00 p~m. • Arts 76-The History of Chinese and Japanese Art-Tburston-88 112 . Economics 145-Managerial Economics-Kenney-ss 113 History 66- The Bistory of Chinese and Japanese Art- Thurston- SS112 Philosophy 12-Pllilosophical Problems-Baker-HU 114 Philosophy 30-Greek Philosophy• H. Taylor-HU 110 Philosophy 60-Issues in Femirusm-Patrik, Ludwig-HU 116 Political Science 77- The Court Watchers-Daniels-ss 117 Statistic~ 10-IntrDduction to Statistics-Belyea-BH 203 Accounting 10 (Mon ... Wed. Sec. )-Financial Accounting-Hurley- BH201 - Biology 23-The Cell-Core III-G. Smith-BU 109 Psychology 24-8ocial Psychology-Lipton-PY 213 Psychology 63-Pl\acticum in Human Relations 11-Girdner-PY 113 f:· 20-Land Measurements: Theory and Application-Male-BU E.E. 33-Analysis and Design of Electronic Circuits-Hassib-BH 207 J C.S.. 11-FORTRAN Programming for the Social Sciences- Albright-HU 117 C.S.l31-1ntrodu<!tion to Compilers-Williams-BU 204

Pagel8 CONCORDIENSIS. November /0, 1983 RENT-A-WRECK Thanksgiving Special Wed.-Monday $60.00 & COW & Sales Tax 400 Miles FREE With Ad Good for Thanksgiving. Only! Make Your Reservation Early! 382-8111 r·--·-·-·-·-·-·-·t ~ DID YOU KNOW i ·t WE'RE • I OPENEVENINGS? J t Mon.~Fri. 'til8:45 .p.m. • . i AH year long for your shopping l ' convenience • .- ....... ~ ........ ._..~ .• ~ .......... ._...~.J. ,TIME CENTER J~~EJ{S 428 ..State St Three Doors From Proctors Downtown Schenectady, (518) 37 4-0183 We're old enough to know better. Haircut /Design Perms Colour Facials II W,.x··. · ..... rng Make ... up . · Body Wraps . Nell .Lengthening · · Our desig.ners have been trained by. S-ASSOON of .London and JINGLES, N. V.C. Gooding ·skin Systems 322 State St., Schenectady. N.Y... 1..,. ....... - SCIENCE MAJORS Interested in medical research? Applications to Ph.D. · programs in Anatomy, Biochemistry, Micro- biology, Pharmacology . and Physiology are now being accepted. Assistantships avail- able. For more information, contact: . COLLEGE OF GRADUATE STUDIES· S.U.N.Y. Upstate Medica). Center Syracuse, New York . 13210 ·1m. A:f:finrative Actien Equal' Opportunity Institution Is it true you can buy Jeeps for $44 through ' the · • U.S.Governm·ent.? Get the-Facts Today! Call (312) 742-1142 Ext. 4269 Ill c. - I u A: th in Tl r(] ht pt til C<J ro .c:: a.. >- .._ rc ~ > .a 0 - 0 .c:: c. ' se~ ev' Br we int str 801 COl Sal Un thi hm ser se< cot wit

y , CONCORDIENSIS, November 10, 1983 Page 19 ------------------------~~--------~------------~ -------~------------------------~---------------- Union. Rowing Club Thriving (/) ByC:PSIS Sports Staff The recently established Union College Rowing Association (UCRA) has since the begmning of the year gained in both popularity and support. The. association's membership roster now includes over one- hundred names, most are those people interested in par- ticipating in intercollegiate competition and. training ·year round. UCRA President ·John 0. .c a. >- ... Ill ~ >- .c 0 +- 0 .c 0. Ciovacco has done a fine job organizing the association. Ciovacco, along with the help from fellow members dealt with aU the problems invelved in putting a rowing club on water in a very short time. The UCRA is presently rowing out -of the Aqliaduct Rowiftg Club, a srnall boat house located three miles east on the mighty Mohawk <River. The association owns one eight man boat and has access to; a .four man boat. Funds recently acquired from Student Rowing Club members wakh from a four man shell as Union;s sixty foot eight man shell is lowered into the water. Activities are sufficient for the club to buy an additional' eight man boat and a small motor- boat for coaching as well as sa.fety purposes. The association has purchased a new ergometer (rowing macliine) on which the association wiU train this winter. Aquaduct plans to take up its dock due to cooling tem- peratures and already frigid wate·rs. President Ciovacco has scheduled for those interested in winter training a weight lifting program and time slots for work-outs on the ergometer. Although the UCRA received some funding support from the school, the association has come up with several fund raising ideas to increase its fl.mds, such as the Ergothon. Similar to a danceathon, an Ergothon is a test of endurance. The object is to keep the rowing machine in motion for as long as 48 hours by the collective efforts of association members. Ergothon '83 will begin the afternoon of Friday November 18 fu the lobby of Carnegie. Be sure to stop by and watch your pal row and get a free T-shirt with a pledge of over $3000. Participants will be collecting sponsors throughout next week- -support the {!CRA. Volleyball Ends Tough Season ByCPSIS Sports Staff The Union College Volleyball team won its third match last Thursday, beating Russell Sage 2 games to 1. The entire team played extremely well as each player demonstrated the skiils they had developed over the season. Setter Cberi Wong did · not miss a set the entire evening; middle hitters Jodi Brenner and Suzette Collier were awesome spikers and intimidating blockers, and strong hitters Barbara Brady and Mary Forbes were more consistent than ever, forcing Sage to dive all over the court. Union's serves were consistent throughout the evening, however, the women faltered on serve reception. They lost the second game because they could not set up their offense without receiving serves. Poor serve reception has been the team's main problem the entire season. As the team began winning, the women's moral increased and the will to win became the dominant factor in the match. What happened to the rest'of the season? Unfortunately, the women lost their first match against Oneonta that evening 2 games to none. The first game was one of the best that Union has played all year. Oneonta's team· was forced to dig a lot harder than they had expected. Union lost to Oneonta just last week without gaining more than 4 points per . game in the Binghamton Tournament. The women ended their season this past Saturday at the Albany State Tournament where they lost 4 matches in a row. The Dutchwomen just could not get their footwork together and they were unable to receive serves. Once again Cheri Wong had an outstanding day. She moved quite well all over the court but lacked team support. . . The 3-27-1 Dutchwomen will only lose two players this year; York Exchange student Hellen Challis and senior Jodi Brenner. Helen, second setter to Cheri, was almost indispensable for the 6-2 offensive strategy. Jodi, a 4 year varsity letterwotnen was on the team in 1981 when the womeri went to the state championship tournament and was part of the team .for the two years that Union won the Northeast Invitational Tour- nament. Jodi is a member of Sigma Delta Tau and she is presently persuing her M.B.A. in Health Services Administration. UNION COLLEGE DEMOCRATS \A I'IIE~t:NT POLITICAL PARTY\ TONITE DEMOCRATS, REPI,IB~CANS, AND INDEPENDENTS ARE WELCOME DATE; THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1983 TIME: 1o:oo P.M PLACE: STATION NO.3- 10 N. JAY ST. ADMISSION: $2.00 (IN ADVANCEI $2.50 <At' THE DOOR) s ••• un.lon vs. Middlebury Sports Talk With SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff According te Middlebury Football head coach Mickey Heinecken, Union College was the best football team to visit Porter Field in his 11 years at the small Vermont school. Coach Heinecken and his players have a lot to be proud of as they rose to the occasion last Saturday to upset the nationally ranked Dutchmen on a cold and wet afternoon. This .reporter was. fortunate enough to be able to acquire a total taste for this particular football contest. Monday, Tuesday and Wed- nesday were spent talking to Union players and coaches about the game. Then Thursday I taveled north through the beautiful Champlain Valley to Middlebury College. On Thursday night I talked about the game with many Panther players and then on Friday I interviewed the· young Panther head coach. Due to this ex- tensive research I was far from surprised to look up at the final score that had Middlebury on top by three. Every Dutchman I talked remarked on the quality of their opponent. Names such as Good, Goldman and Varney were talked about. Both the Union players and coaches knew this gaine would be no cake walk. Once at MiddlebUry, all I heard was respect for the 'Garnet squad. Players called' if ·the biggest game o.f their careers. The Panther coaching staff knew that the Dutchman would roll during the '83 campaign so they took out a subscription to a local Schenectady paper to follow the juggernaut. Once week seven rolled around the staff prepared a collage to put on the walls of their loclter room. One player offered to show me the display, once in the locker room I could not believe what I saw. The entire locker room was plastered with articles, posters and quotes that all directly related to beating Union. In a team meeting after the Pan- thers practice on Friday both coaches and players alike discussed how they would have to play emotionally to stay with ,_ the Dutchman. They talked · about playing \out of control'' and ('ten feet off the ground\. Many of the Panther players commented Saturday that they were so fired up for the game that they could barely sleep Friday night. Finally game time rolled around and all the talk prior to the game was meaningless. Middlebury drew first blood and took a 7~ lead. Unio:q led by QB Danny Stewart took the en- .suring kick off and drove the length of the field to tie it up at seven. Then came the turning point of the game, Middlebury punter Jon Peterson nailed a wobbly kick that . died on the Union three yard line. The Panther defense rose to the occasion to hold the potent Union offense and· force a Dutchman punt from deep in their own end zone. Middlebury returned the punt and with gre11t field position knocked it in to go up 14-7. Peterson soon pointed again for the Panthers and he once again put the ball on the Dutchman three. Mid- dlebury held Union and again was able to convert the stalwart defensive effort into seven points, putting them up 21-7 for the half. To Unions credit they came back on the field in the second half to give up only three pc)ints while scoringtwo touchdowns of their own, only to fall short of the win as the clock ran out. This being the first time I had ever covered a losing Dut- clunan football game I did not know what to expect after the final gun blew. What I saw made rne proud to be a representative of Union as players like Tommy Quirk held their heads high while sincerely congradulating the Panther players on a great win. ·After wrapping up my broadcast I headed to the locker room again not knowing what to expect. I hoped to get an interview with Coach Bagnoli but I also prepared myself for a valid refusal. What I got when I approached Bagnoli was both a smUe and a hello and a yes to my desire for a quick interview. Bagnoli impressed me with his calm demeanor and control only thirty minutes after a loss that all but knocked the Dut- chman out of any post season games. He talked about how Middlebury was a fine football team and made the definite point of telling me how proud he and his staff were of the way his kids never gave up, held their heads high and came back at the end. Saturdays game was dissapointing in the sense that Union lost but it also gave me a chl:lnce ·. to see another side of both the players and the coaches. As mentioned before the Dutchmen never said die and almost pulled out a win at the end. One has to give credit to all the players who never dropped their heads and gave it all they had. I was also im- presse~ by the class, that coach Bagnoli possesed in defeat. I take my hat off to both the coaches and players and I must say that they made me feel honored to be associated with them last Saturday afternoon. Coming Soon SLAP SHOTS

,! r Page20 CONCORDIENSIS, November 10, 1983 SPORTS ... 24-21 Dutchnten Upset B_y Middlebury By LOU GEORGE Sports Staff It was a perfect setup for an upset. The Dutchmen, 7-0, with their sights set on the NCAA Div. III playoffs, traveled to rural Middlebury, Vt., to face the Panthers who had a deceiving record; beating top teams such as Amherst and Tufts and losing to the weaker teams in the league such as Colby. The weather was also in the Panthers favor, a cold icy rain that melted away the five inches of snow that covered Porter field on Friday before the game. The rain, known as the great equalizer in the world of sports, hindered the Dut- chmen passing attack and an excellent nose guard named John Good completely suf- focated the running attack of the Dutchmen. It was not until the end of the third quarter after Middlebury's Jon Peterson, who will be a reoc- curring nightmare to many Dutchmen, kicked what proved to be the winning field goal, that Steward could muster any type of substantial offense. The Dutchmen · realized the predicament they had gotten themselves into and began implementing what looked to be a Dallas Cowboy come from behind victory. After the first quarter the score was a 7·7 tie. The Pan- thers scoreO. on a forty-yard Mahon to Vamy completion. The· Dutchmen came back to LAMBERT BOWL POLL \The Best in the East\ 1. Hofstra 9·0 2. Carnegie Mellon 9·0 3.WPI 7·0 4. Susquehanna 6-0·1 5. Westminster 7-1 6. Gettysburg 8-1 7. Union 7-1 8. Salisbury St. 8-0-1 9. St. John's 8-1 10. Montclair 7-1-1 even the score by driving 74 yards in nine plays. Bill Huttner .capped the drive with a seventeen yard run; With consistently bad field position, and a . suspect call, the Dutm chmen found themselves down 27m7 in the fourth quarter. The comeback attempt started with a Marty Glaze interception at the Dutchmen 37 yard line. Stewart successfully mixed pass and run covering the remainder of the field in 8 plays, the eighth play was a touchdown pass of nine yards to fullback Steve Olsen. The defense did what they had to do, stopping the Panthers and getting the ball to the offense as quickly as possible. The Garnet offense came right back and drove to the Middlebury 45, where a very suspect call ended the drive. A fourth down completion to Paul Flannig.an was ruled incomplete. The defense held again but another perfect Peterson pWit put the ball on the Union three yard line. But Stewart and company rose to the occasion and dro~e 97 yards mixing pass and run effectively and using only two minutes and twenty-five seconds of the clock. Winston Britton made the touchdown catch of seven yards. The onside kick attempt with 2:40 on the clock failed, but the Dutchmen defense held. stewart got the ball back with 1:28 but could only get to midfield before a penalty wiped out a 14 yard pass to the Pan- NCAA POLL 1. Augustana 8·0 2. Carnegie Mellon 9·0 3. Hofstra 9-0 4. Salisbury St. CMD) 8·1 5. Wis. River Falls 8-1 6. Wittenberg (OH) 8-1 7. Occidental CCA) 7-1 8. Montclair CNJ) 7-1-1 9. Susquehanna PA) 7-0-1 10. Adrian (OH) 8-1 11. Case Wes·tern (OH) 8-1 12. Gettysburg CPA) 8-1 13. Union 7-1 ther 41 yard line and two in- complete passes gave the ball back to Middlebury and endec;l what seemed to be one of the best records in Union football history. · As far as the playoff hopes go, Union can no longer control its own fate but may still be con- sidered pending the outcome of a variety of games this weekend. The Du.tchemn face the Hamilton Continentals 2-5~ The Continentals are led by the third rated passer in Upstate New York., Seamus Crotty, and the leading receiver in Upstate New York, Brian Foster. The Garnet will be looking for a big victory to redeem themselves in the eyes of the selection committee of the NCAA Div. III playoffs. A victory Saturday would give the Dutchmen back to back 8-1 seasons, records any football team would be proud of. But if they are not granted a playoff spot they will fall short of th~r preseason goal of a playoff berth, a very high goal for any team. ~corf.l by p£1rtod~ Union 7 0 0 14-21 Middlebury 7 14 l 0-24 M - Varney, 4(]; P11'S from Mahon (Peter· son, lctckl U -'B. Huttner, ,J7, run (Sticka, kick) M -· Varney, I, p~•• from Mahon (Peter- , son, kick) M - Varney, 1, pass from Mahon (Peter· son, kickl M - Peterson, 25, field goal U - Olsen, 9, pass from Stewart (kick failed) • U - Britton, 8, pass from Stewart (Kel· l11her, pass from Stewart) Ftrs1 oo ..... n~ i<!us'le•·7ords Passing yards Passes Return$ yards P1,mfs average Fumbles lost Penalties-yards STATisncs Union 18 25·49 263 21·45-'2 23 8-31.0 0 • 11·100 Mld1. 18 51-169 148 11-24-2 21 S-37.5 0 12·117 NEW ENGLAND FOOTBALL NEWSLETTERS PJ)LL WPI Union Trinity St. Lawrence Middlebury 7-0 7-1 5-2 5-2 5-2 Albany Law Defeats Buggers By PHll. WESTERMAN Sports Staff Last Saturday, the Union Rugby Club lost a hard fought battle to rival Albany Law. The weather was truly unbearable as a cold rain washed away Union's hopes for a victory. Albany Law scored twice in the first half but only accumulated eight points because they could not convert either extra-point attempts. Union came out strong in the second half, dominating the Albany Law team, however, they were unable to score. That was until Ed Hart booted a penalty kick through the uprights for three points. The kick fired up the Union team even more, but the elements proved victorious and put out Union's fire. Things got so heated that the referee left the game in protest of the un• sportsmanlike conduct that was being displayed. Albany Law was able to hold on to win 8-3. Union takes on their next op- ponent, Oneonta, Saturday, Nov. 12, at 1:00 on Library Field. Come out and support the Union College Rugby Club. Harriers In N.Y. Championships ByBOBSTENARD Sports Staff Cross-country running is a sport traditionally charac- terized by open air and a variety of conditions; Courses can vary so drastically that from o.ne week to the next the harrier can do little more than wonder what the race will be like. Last weekend, The Flying Dutchmen battled some of the toughest possible course and weather conditions on the University of Buffalo's .home course where the New York State college cross-country championships were held. Sophomore Chris O'Donnell finished 34th on the Buffalo course which in spots had as much as two inches of water, and several inches of mud. Bill McRoberts was right behind Chris finishing 37th. After alling upon hard times in the last two meets Marc Craw turned in one of his finest efforts of the season, 63rd. Freshmen Bob Stenard and Neal Ricks rounded out the top five finishing 71st and 90th respectively. Union, who had been picked to finish 19th in the meet actually finished loth out of 26 teams which belong to the NY State track and field con- ference. · Neighboring Siena College won for the second straight year, winning the meet by a large margin. Next Saturday the mens' team and the womens' top runner, Amy Walsh, will compete at Cortland State in the NCAA Eastern Regional Qualifier which will complete their season. The finishers and order of finish for the NYS Cham- pionship are as follows: 34. Chris O'Donnell 26:44 37. BillMcRoberts 26:49 63. Marc \Gator\ Craw 27:32 71. BobStenard 27:32 90. Neal Ricks 27:54 110. Tim Orcutt 28:27 134. Pete Granger 29:51 .•. · . \ ...... , , , .. •,, :· \\ '\M-<tr· Seni(lr ~-~ft winger ·~en Maynard drives toward the ri.ght in' the Dutchmen's 5-4 overtime victorY over North Adams Puckst-ers Wi.n ByP.K.K. Sports Staff The 1983-84 edition of th~ Union College Varsity Hockey team made its exhibition debut la$ Satrday with a 5-4 overtime victory over North Adams State College of Massachussetts. Junror right wing Bill Kirby was the hero for the Dutchmen as he banged in a rebound 27 seconds into the overtime period to put the game away. Union had built 'a 4-1 lead on goals by Bill Wernecke, Curt Cole, Bobby Hawkes, and John McKen~ie. In the thir.:d period, North Adams \\'· took advantage of Union lapses and stormed back to score three goalsto tie the game and send it into overtime. Goaltenders John Merry, B~:trt BrOQks and Wayne McDougall each played one period respectively. The Skating Pntchmen will finish their pre-season schedule when they host American Inter- national College tomorrow night at 7:30. The Dutchmen then open the regular season on Tuesday, November 15, when they travel to Plattsburgh to face off against the Cardinals. Game time is 7:30. Women's Soccer 5-9 ByCPSIS Sports Staff This past fall the Union College Women's soccer team completed its second season and first under the helm of coach Marty Morrison. Last year the lady hooters suffered a winless season yet they reboWlded this year with a respectable 5-9 campaign. The major differettce between this year's team and last year's was a dedication to winning which coach Morrison seemed to in· still in her players. Future is Optimistic Despite the fact that the Women's soccer team won two of its last eleven games, there is still reason for optimism. This year's squad graduates only three seniors, Louise Fischer, Mei Ching Tse, and Jane Webb. Based on the team's per- formance this past season, there should be a strong foundation returning for next year's squad. Leading the way will be· Astrid Morsch and Lisa Rathbun who together shared the team lead.in goals with five each. Robin Psota chipped in · three goals for the season and Maureen Coleman added two. The defense was held together by the goal-tending tandem of~ Monica Lobell and Jane Webb who provided the lady Dut· chmen with solid play in the twines all year. The Women's Soccer team would like to thank all those who supported them this year. Soccer In Tourney By SAM RIFFORD and PETE STEGEMANN Sports Staff The Union College Soccer program ahcieved their preseason goal this past Monday when they learned they had been chosen by the New York State s.election committee to represent New York in the Division III NCAA tournament. The Dutchemn's number two seeding in New York earned them a hOme field advantage against the number three seed Beffalo State, this match taking place yesterday at 1 p.m. on Garris field. At the same time, number four .seed RIT visited the top ranked team Cortland State. The winners of these two matches will then play on Sunday to determine the New York State Champion. · Union insured their bid with a victory over Siena College.6·1 in overtime. Even though Union outshot their opponent 50-5, they needed an extra twenty minutes to win the game. Goals were registered by Bernie Zeifang, Jim Monks, Neil Goldberg, Bob Crandal, Dave Sheridan and Grant Foreman. If the Dutchmen are fortunate enough to survive the New York section of the tourqament, they will proceed to play the New England Regional Champion. Sports Happenings- Nov. 10-23 Varsity Football Nov. 12.Hamllton 1 :30 Men's Soccer Nov. 9 Buffalo St. 1:00 X·Country Nov. 12 NCAA QUqlifler ......,...--------sco.reboard -----------1 FOOTBALL (7-1) - VOLLEYBALL (3-27·1) Middlebury 24 Union 21 Union 2 Siena 1 M. SOCCER (10-2-2) HOCKEY (1-0) Union6 Sienal Unions N.Adams4(0T) -' w • ( ,. ] tt rr \I w ,CC B A A (1 w w u cl p4 rr: te le m Sc te PI pc 1£ B w la m tb tt u be 0 fc rE fe $1 m ac w p2 m F• at fo p~ m m ta p~ th tb re A• in fu t11 0' bl CE it:

