a \ ~ s 0 .... 0 .c Q. Ql !II :I 0 0 ... Ql .... rf. on nd of as to at in ~ 1877 cxn, No. ·lO January 13, 1,993 -~~ '\\':~ .... , . ...,.____;~...,....~~.,...,.,..,..,...;.,~\'~'\\'.. .. ~/;;._:,--J~~\··j·.:+i.i. .'~j».<iOW:~\%:-\'W-~\'*-~'?~~m ... ' ~·· The Space Shuttle Columbia climbs off its pad at Cape Kennedy Columbia Launch Covered by Union Journalist By P:BTER CLOUSE Staff Editor's Note: Concordiensis Staff Writer Peter Clouse traveled to the Kennedy Spa~ Center in Florida to cover the launching of the Space Shuttle Mission STS.;5 on November 11, 1982. Mr. Clouse, an aerospace enthusiast, and Concordiensis received full press credentials after application to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). Mr. Clouse was given full access to facilities and shared arrangements with national news services. Thanks go out to Congressman Samuel Stratton. It was nearly \business as usual\ for the fifth launch of the Space Shuttle Columbia in early November 1982. The first operational mission experienced only two minor problems with the orbiter itself. A leaky heliutn regulator, which served as a backup unit for the pressurization of space maneuvering jets, caused NASA officials to bend the rules a bit by announcing that ''the leak rate is acceptable to flight.'; The other problem was a defective radar altimeter which was replaced. For three of Columbia~s crew, copilot Marine Col. Robert F. OVermyer (age 45), and mission specialistsDrs. Joseph P. Allen (age 45) and William B. Lenoir (age 43), the mission was the first venture into space. Commander Vance Brand (age 51) was command module pilot of the Apollo-soyuz Test Project conducted in July of 1975. This Space Transportation System·5 {S'TS-5) flight marked the first use of the Space Shuttle, the· world's first reuseable spacecraft, · to· haul commercial communications satellites into orbit. The Satellite· Business Systems (SBS}-C. was the third of a series of business com- munications satellites while Teleset Canada's Anik-C-3 was the first of a trio of satellites that will provide dosmetic communication services for Canada. (Anik is the Eskimo term for ''little brother\.) Both devices; built by Hughes Air- craft Company, cost $30 million. The deployment bill from NASA for each company was approximately $9 million. All things considered, the shuttle ·was the best launch bargain around, but the fees will soon be tripled after 1985 to cover the $250 million per mission cost. Shuttle program director Lt. Gen. James Abrahamson ex- plained the rate hikes: \Any business runs into the same problem. If you're going to buy the first Chrysler off the line, I suspect you'd be getting a good deal . . . We have a lot of costs and investments that we're still making that you just don't amortize against this particular launch.'' During the newly developed satellite .ejection sequence, the payload is spun at a speed of 50 rpms, to insure stability. A clamp is then released by ex• plosi've bolts and a set of springs pops the spinning satellite· out of the cargo bay at a speed of two and one-half feet-per-second. Forty-five minutes after the release; the Payload Assist ModUle (PAM) attached to the bottom of the satellite fires, to place it into a 22,300 mile high orbit from the shuttle's 186 mile high ejection point. Another first for this flight was the deactivation of the two ejection seats~ In other words, should there be an abort situation prior to, or im- mediately after, launch there was no w~;~y for the crew to be carried away from the orbiter. Emergency egress would have been accomplished via special vests which would have at- tached to a slide wire leading down and away from the launch configuration. The crew wore blue, fire retardant, cotton flight coveralls and oxygen-supplying helmets ·for the launch as op- posed to the heavier pressure suits worn during previous fligJ:tts. _ After a flawless countdown, Columbia's engines roared to life · at 'l: 19 a.m. before an estimated 500;000 people and the four-time veteran returned to space once again riding atop its characteristic white plume. Although the scheduled \spacewalk could not be conducted due to spacesuit equipment faih.tre, the two satellites were deployed correctly and on time. The crew posed playfully in zero-gravity shortly after the second one began its journey to orbit with Commander Brand holding a hand-printed sign that read: \Satellite Deployment by the Ace Moving Co., Fast and Courteous Service, We Deliver\. The only casualty during the picture perfect landing on the desert at Edwards Air Force Base in California was a flat tire, the result of the friction of a locked wheel. Colwnbia also showed streaks on its body from the heat of reentry. Scheduled to fly again in September of 1983, it will \go IDte the shop\ for a new type of heat blanket and upgraded engines. Taking up the slack for its sister will be the second shuttle, Challenger, whose first flight is set for late January 1983. Discovery and Atlantis, the third and fourth shuttles, are to be completed in 1983 and 1984 respectively. When Columbia returns to Laimch Pad 39A with its first Com- mander, John Young, the ship will carry Europe's Spacelab into the heavens. Drinking Policy Outlined, p. 2 Fund· Established, p. 3

P~ge 2 OONOORDIENS/8, January 13, 1983 - Alcohol Policy Defined ,For Campus Wats:on Fellowship Finalists Chosen By LISA FOLEY Staff Union's Watson Fellowship selection committee has nominated Roberta Cohen, Marcia Lifshitz, Debra Moses and Jonathan Titus as finalists in the Thomas J. Watson competition. Of the 177 nominees from the 50 par- ticipating colleges and universities ·nationwide, 70 students receive a $10;000 grant. Academic records and ex- tracurricular activities, which illustrate the students' longstanding committrnent to their proposed project, determine those students who will receive the grant. The recipients use the grant toward a year of independent study and travel abroad following their graduation. Miss Cohen proposes for her project to examine, \. . , how institutionalized children specifically teenagers, feel, and are treated by the divergent cultures of Spain and f\ustr~lia. \. Mis~ Cohen plans, m conJunction with her project, to do postgraduate work in the Schenectady Parent-Child Center or become a trainee in a horne for the mentally, . physicall, and emotionally · handicapped children in Maine. Planning a career in the field of psychology, Miss Lifshitz proposes to study perceptions and attitudes concerning rape in Mexico. Concerned that, with more women entering the work . force, children spend much of their time in the care of others. Miss Moses aspires to study various types of day care in France and Sweden in- order to learn about its effects on children. By DOUG LANDON News Editor On December 4, 1982, the legal drinking age in New York State was raised to 19, when a bill passed b-y State legislators last summer became law. Union, along with all other institutions statewide which permit the consumption of alcohol on their premises, had to restructure policy on this topic. A summary of new alcohQI regulations on campus is as follows: In the two areas of the campus where alcohol is sold, the Dutch Hollow Pub and the Rathskeller, Food Service ·staff is charged with the .enforcement of the State law. Specifically, the employees are authorized to · take any steps appropriate to insure that on~y those over 19 years of age are served alcohol, Mr. Titus hopes to do his study in the wfldlife sanctuaries of India, Nepal, and Sri Lanka. His ·particular interests lie in their resource protection, wildlife preservation, population pressure, and park use, the wilderness ethic, and trail management. The Fellowship, founded in 1961, has granted 959 Wat-son Fellowship awards totalling $7,375,886 in hopes that the students selected will develop a more informed sense of in- ternational concern. Pro~ile: C.W. Huntley By MARCY BURSTINER News Editor It is hard for any of us at Union to imagine spending our entire life in the town of Schenectady, yet Professor C.W. Huntley has chosen to do just that. He maintains that he has yet to regret the decision. \I was born in Schenectady and I grew up in Schenectady, and as a small boy I started coming down here,\ he explained. \In those days small boys weren't terribly welcome at football games. For ·example, they had canvas all around the .field and we used to find a ,place in the fence where we could slide through and run faster than the campus police.\ The professor graduated from Union in 1934 and came back, after obtaining his Phd. in psychology from Harvard University, as an administrator in 1947. Although a psychology major at Union, he first came here with no definite career goal in mind. ''I came here without the faintest idea what I should do, and this was in the middle _of the Depression when life was pretty grim .. and in my Junior year I decided I'd become a psychology major. He feels that much of the specialization should be reserved for graduate sehool. Students should not be per- suaded to declare their major until their third year and a broader type of education should be encouraged. Another change in the CollegP. which Huntley regrets to a -certain extent is the replacement of the semester program with that of the trimester in 1964. ''Ten weeks is an a-yvfully short time, you just begin to get comfortable with your students, and they with you and zing-it's all over. It gets very difficult in terms of- well, for example, if a student wants to research a _project- ten weeks is much too short. The semester plan was a little more leisurely ... It's not a bad idea to have a slightly slower pace. . . the three course business tends to be a little hectic.\ Huntley feels the campus can still be improved in many ways. One plan he has in mind, \for the future; U mQney becomes available,'' is a theater, located on the other side of Jackson's Gardens. \We have a plan to make a nice walk through the Gardens so students in the winter would be going throUgh the Gardens if they were going to the theater.\ Huntley would then like to see the Nott Memorial transformed into a recital hall for small musical groups to perform, small dance groups, and lectures. \You used to be able to sit and look way up to the dome and there are little pieces of colored glass, like stars, up there and it must have been something to sit there. There's a beautiful tiled floor und~rneath and if you could just sit in there and hear concerts, and hear lectures and let your eyes .go way up to the top-it. would be quite an exciting room.\ Huntley and his Wife Lee have lived on the ·campus in their house in North College since 1947. The professor has two daughters, Debra and Elizabeth. The latter graduated from Union in. the class of '74 Phi Beta Kappa and went on to study the harp at the New. England Conservatory. She is now a professional Harpist in Boston. The Professor enjoys living on campus and feels that the old houses lend a certain charm to the atmosphere of the school. He often entertains there and frequently invites classes and individual students there for informal class discussions. Psychology Professor C. William Huntley Is the subject of this week's profile. that the drinks are consumed on the premises and served only during designated times, that no one who appears intoxicated is served, and that any overly loud or unruly patrons be required to leave.. The Administration wishes to · emphasize that alcohol con- sumption should be only ''ad. juncts to social relationships,\ and not the sole putpose for entering the establishments, A fine of $50 will be imposed on .any person under 19 who is affiliated with the College and is caught consuming alcohol iri the Pub or in the SKELLER. Any member .of the campus com- munity · found· ' providing alcoholic beverages to a minor will be .fined $100. In both cases, he or she Will be banned from the respective premises until the end of the following academic term. A temporary beer and wine permit must be obtained from the State Liquor Authority before any event involving the sale, purchase, distribution and consumption of alcoholic beverages in college owned facilities without permanent licenses may be held. The fee for this permit is $25.. Also, in the· case of privately owned fraternity houses, ad- ministrative officers must approve the event after spon• sors have filed a \Union College Facility Request and Party Registration Form,\ which provides information· on estimated attendance, time period, State permit number, names of supervisors and .of- ficers of t~e organization, precedures to monitor ·age restriction, arrangements with Security ana Safety, and type of beverages. to be available. When alcohol is served, College policy mandates that non- alcQholic beverages must also be availa'ble. Organizers of social events providing, but neither directly nor indirectly selling, alcohol must also complete the \Facility Request and Party Registration Form.'' · This section includes provisions for ~ormitory and floor parties or gatherings, in which case, Residence Life Staff (ItA. 's specifically) · must enforce CoUege and State laws while, at , the same time, .insuring that · conduct <toes not interfere with the rights of others .. Joseph L. Mammola, Dean of Students, points out that, ''The College is simply trying to mak;e people act responsibly/' .Any student under 19 years of age who is found to have consumed alcohol on campus, or any: staff member (R.A.) who is deter- mined to have permitted a minor to drink alcohol while under his or her jurisdiction, will stand before the Qonduct Committee, acc.ording to Mammola. The Coill1llittee will make disciplinary . recom- mendations. to him. He also cautions that legal action may be taken in certain instances, such as cases where hazing is practice~ or the Schenectady Police are summoned to in- tervene. Rather than creating a dry campus, Manunola wants the students' use of alcohol to reflect \moderate legal and responsible behavior.\· CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP Meets Every Tuesday at 4:30p.m. in the 4th Floor Lounge CARNEGIE HALL -Come join us for Bible Stu,dy, Singing and Sharing- .. UN.ION COLLEGE FOOD SERVICE UNIT HOURS OF OPERATION Union College Food Service Office 9:00 a .. m.-4:30 p.m. Monday througn Friday · Hale Hoose • Lunch-·11:30 a:m.-1 p.m. Monday-Friday Dinner--5-6: 30 p.rn ., Monday-Fr.iday Weekend meals will be available according to Upperclass meal participation. West CoUege Dining .. a II Monday-.Friday--Breakfast: 7:30-9 a.m. , Monday-Friday--Continental: 9-10 a.m. Monday-Friday--Lunch: 11:30 a.m.-1:15 p.m. Monday-Friday--Dinner: 5-6:30 p.m. Saturday & Sunday--Continental: 10-10:30 a.m. Sa.turday & Sunday--Brunch: 10:30 a.m.-1 p.m. Saturday & Sunda.y--Dinner: 5-6:30 p.m. .. Rathskellar ' Sunday--12noon-8 p.m. Thursday--12noon-9p.rn. Monday--12 noon-S.p.m. Friday--12.noon-Ciosing+ Tuesday.,..l2 noon-Ciosi'1,9+ Saturday--12 noon-Closing+ Wednesday--12 noon-Closing+- . +Normal business hours are 12:00-2:00 a.m. RathskeHar may close early depending upon customer count. Dutch Hollow Pub KITCHEN Monda.y-Friday: Breakfast--7:30-11 a.m., Lunch-- \'\11:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m., Dinner--5-7 p.n:i. BAR: Sunday & Mondc:~y-Ciosed Tuesday•-4: 30-Ciosing + Wednesday--Closed +Depending on customer coutlt Thursday--s: 30-Ciosing+ . • Friday--4: 30-Ciosing+ Saturday-~9: 30-Ciosing+ DUTCHMEN'S NIGHT DINNERS: Saturday Seatings--4:30 p.m., 5 p.m.; 6:30 p.m.,. 7:30 p.m. By reservations only. Reservations are taken at the Student Activities .Box Office on Wednesdays and Fridays between 1:00 and 4.:00 p.m., ' . - tir Sc D• M M fr: 8 Cc 1 lo: fo gt tr. de hE bt bE 0 tr al pc ar m Cl la M cc 8( bE di e~ S< th bi S! CI M m th fu p R t t l c $1 B R N cl b g ei w p sl b 11 E ol s~ N G

- age vith e of >le. ege on- !lso :nts ~tly IQOI the rty Ms for or se, L's :ce , .at , hat ith t of :be tke .ny tge red aff er- a ile m, lCt to rill tn- lso ay ~s, is dy n- ItS to OONCQRDIENSIS, January 1S, 1988 Page 3 Trustee, ~Benefactor: Dies Schaffer Wills Legacy .JlyDQUG L~NDON News Editor Honorary trustee and 'long- time Union ·benefactor Henry Schaffer pas~ed away. on December 15 at the age. of 92. Mr. Schaffer, wh()m Presideat Morris described as a ''staunc!l friend of higher education who will be gr::eatly missed,'' willed · a $3 million :legacy to · the College. · · , college, Mr. Sch!ilffer received honorary doctorates in science and law from Union, as well as honorary membership in Phi Beta Kappa. He was a life trustee of both Union and Albany Medical College, where he · was- presented ·with an honorary doctorate of. science in 1973, ''Henry Schaffer's concern and devotion to the College have long been admired by the entire campus community,\ ac- cording to President Morris. \Since· I came to Union three years ago, I have benefited greatly from Mr, Schaffer's friendship and counsel.\ Vice President Rasmussen points out that Mr. Schaffer placed no restrictions (m :the use of the money. The legacy will be will be approved, it will be in- cluded. Rasmussen, who is ''very impressed with Mr. Schaffer's attorneys and executors,\ hopes this will be .possible. Aside . from the bequest to Union, Mr. .Schaffer willed $2 mHUon to. Albany Medical College and $5 million to his Wife .. Other beneficiaries of the $12 million estate inClude the Jewish Communal Fund of New York City, the Annie Schaffer Senior Citiz.en's , Center (.founded in memory of his mother), Ellis Hospital; Siena College, The United way of Schenectady, St. Clare's Hospital, Congregation Gates of Heav~n, and many others. Union mourns the death of Trustee Henry Schaffer. The supermarket pioneer will long be remembered at Union for his interest, counse~ and generous . . financial . coa- tributions·. In 1959, Mt. Schaffer donated $500,000, which was half the· total ·cost, . toward the building of the library which bears his ham e .. this was the Collegeis largest .single ·con- tribution .to that date. He was also founder and chief sup- ,porter of Friends_ of the Library, and establisped a scholarship in memory of his brother, Morris, Class of 1914. . included in the College's en· dowment, and earnings used annually as the B'oard of Trustees determin.es. ''Mr. ISC Informs Colleges ·A letter from the New York law firm of Wein, Lane and Malkin, received-December 23, confirmed the provisi,on in Mr. Schaffer's will for a $3 million .bequest· to Union College. ''I direct this legacy to be used t() establish the Henry and Sally Schaffer Philanthropic li'und,\ the will stated, \and be com- bined with the Union College- Schaffer Fund which I have created during tny lifetime/' Mr. . Schaffer · contributed $1 million to this fund while living, thus the bequest brings the fuild's total to $4 million. Vice President for Co1lege Resources Robert B. Rasmussen an- ticipates the money will be received in late spring. This will bring Mr. Schaffer's total contributio:ns to Union to $5;325,000, according to Peter Blankman, , Director of Public Relations. Mr. Schaffer began upstate New York's .first supermarket chain, tne Empire Markets. He began work in his parents' grocery in Schenectady at age eight, and quit school at 14 to work in a larger store. After purchasing his own grocery store in 1911 with a $300 loan, he built the business up to include 185 stores, later called the Empire Markets, over _a period of 25 years. In the 1940's Mr. Schaffer was president of the New York State Chain Store Grocer's Association. Never having attended. . Schaffer was not· only a generous man, but was tremendow;ly insightful in the way ,in which he was generQus,\ Mords comm_ented. \Also his conc.ern about higher education was a concern for generations yet to come.'' Though he. made nothing binding on thetrustees, Mr. Schaffer did express the following wish for the bequest in his will.· \The Henry and Sally Schaffer Philanthropic Fund :will provide a substantial in .. crease in the present en- dowment of the Cilleg.e. It is the hope of Mrs. Schaffer and myself that with the added income the CoHege will be able to encourage qualified students from lower and middle income families, through financial assistance, to enroll in the College's technology courses.\ Robert J. Massa, Director of Financiall\:id, is optimistic that SOIJ:>:e of the money will be used to fund student scholarships. The Board of Trustees will undoubtedly T'espect · Mr. Schaffer's hopes in the allocation of the earnings, said Rasmussen, and added that the multi-millionaire businessman placed an \extremely ·strong vote of confidence in the Board. of Trustees,'' by allowing that body to make final deter- minations for the use of the money. President Morris is, according to Rasmu~sen, very sensitive to Mr. Schaffer's hopes. If the money is received by the Board's Jun~ meeting, at which a final budget for 1983-84 By JAY BARUCH Staff When the Student Forum voted to appropriate funds so that Union College could become a member of the Independent Student Coalition, a unique opportunity for every student to actively participate in controlling his or her future was made available. The ISC is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization· which represents the interests of more than 300;000 .$tudents matriculating in New York State's in- dependent colleges and universities. The Executive Director of the ISC is Michael G. Caruso. In a recent con- versation he told this reporter about the current and future plans· of the ISC in general and how it involves the students here at Union. A more thorough view of the intricacies of the ISC will be available when it holds its annual meeting in the end of February at Marist College. The ISC is composed of two branches. The two subgroups are the ISC itself and the ISC ~esearch Foundation (ISCRF}. The ISCRF is operated by the same people who are on the Board of Directors of the ISC except that the offices that these_people hold are different The ISGRF basically com- -plements the ISC whereby a broader range of issues can be handled and studied. One project which ·the ISCRF is The Student Forum is urging freshmen to run for the positions of Class Representative~ Each Freshman class elects two Representatives to the Forum. These persons provide important input during Student Forum meetings, reflecting the class views on varying topics·. Elections for the two positions will tie held on Friday_, January 21, on the second floor of Carnegie Hall, between the hours of 9 am and 4:30pm. A runoff, if necessary, will be held Tues., Jan. 25 in Carnegie during the same hours. Only freshmen are allow ea. Nominating petitions will be available in the Student Activities Office in Carnegie Hall QD Tuesday, January 18th~ These petitions must be endorsed by a minimum of 100 c~assmates. Petitions must be returned to the Student Activities Office by 3:30 pm, Thursday, Janqary 20. A brief meeting will be held ·for interested candidates on Monday, January 17 ·at 4:30 iq Strauss Lounge. Following, pictures will be taken. Students should S!J.bmit their statements to Concordiensis by 5 pm, on Tuesday, Jan. 18th. Questions should be directed to either Aaron Miller at 370-6590 or Jill Bryce at 382-7650. ' \ . c . presently Undertaking is a statewide stop-DWI project. An opportUnity for colleges to learn more about the Resea·rch Foundation will be at the annual meeting. ~Mr. Caruso said that the two- day annual meeting will . be divided into three parts. The first part will be a seminar on public policy and it will be held on the first day. It wUI consist of workshops which range from how to write effective letters to legislators to how to conduct an effective lobbying campaign down in Washington, D.C., as well as on the local level in Albany. The seminar on public policy will also offer a chance for the ''student leaders to learn about the workings ,of tl'le state government in a concise fashion.\ This seminar on public policy will serve as a primer for organizations like Union, informing them of the behindthe scenes policies of the ISC as well as of tbe- govern- ment on both a national and state level,\ said Mr. Caruso. The second part of the meeting will be a symposium on Alcoholism and DWI. \The purpose of the symposium is to bring together administrators and student leaders from dif- ferent schools to discuss and- exchange ideas ·on how they are dealing with alcoholism at their respective schools and What programs they are im- plementing.'' 'ijlis symposium will be run by the Independent Student Coalition Research Foundation. ln the lSC newsletter \ISC Research Foundation Initiates statewide Stop-DWI Project,\ Michael Caruso states that \more than 40 percent of drivers in all alcohol-related road accidents in our state are under the age of 24.'' In addition, he states that \the ISC Research Foundation has already begun to develop a data base, covering alcohol awareness programs and projects currently tlnder way at some 62 independent campuses in New York which have already lent their support to the ISCRF's project.\ The end result of this study and the symposium will be a \modest publication\. The ISC is hoping to .receive a grant to help finance the publication of this report. The report will bring together all the programs discussed Q.uring the sym- posium. It will contain in- formation on the various programs at the different colleges as well as the names of contl:!cts at the colleges who could provide information on these programs. The third and last in the series of workshops will concern student .services and it will be held the folloWing morning. It will conc.ern non-legislative issues and it will also be under the auspices . of the Research Foundation. Mr. Caruso said that 85 percent of the various activities o.f the ISC are educational and academic. They give the facts and the dynl!ffiics of public policy as well as concerning themselves with other facets which are of concern to independent colleges, like DWI. In addition to the annual meeting Mr. Caruso said that they (ISC) are looking to develop networks between the various independent colleges. In the near future. they are planning to invite the newspaper editors from the various campuses to a · workshop on public policy for the benefit of not only the editors but for the benefit oj the writers as well. These events, from the annual meeting to the various public policy workshops, are excellent opportunities for the campus leaders to become informed and to exchange ideas with other campus leaders. It would be beneficial if the leaders from Union attended. But what should be in Union's plans is to educate the leaders on campus and the student body as a whole about the ISC. Caruso said that he is waiting for an in- vitation from Union. When he receives that, he and people from his staff will come on campus and conduct a workshop to make the students aware of the issues at hand and inform them about the ISC. The relationship between Union College and the ISC will be, as with all the members, one of reciprocity. \The extent to which each college participates partly depends on the amount of time and commitment each school is capable of lending so it varies from college to college. Obviously, the students at Syracuse University are able to give more time than the medical students at Albany Medical College.'' · Mr. Caruso said that \Union is in a good position to get in- volved immediately, even though it will take some time before the campus leaders are familiar With the operations of the. ISC. Presently, the students here at Union should keep up with what is going on in Albany as well as in Washington.\ Mr. Caruso said that \Union should invite local legislators to speak on specific issues. the students should try to get answers or commitments from the legislators.\ Of the legislative issues which the ISC focuses on 95 percent concern student financial aid policy .. At the present moment the ISC is concerning .itself with the Higher Education Loan Program Supplement (HELPS) bill. 14 The HELPS bill was first Continued on page 4

Page 4 OONCORDIENSlS, January .13, 1983 Herpes Scares Students .· . I Research Aided l know they have herpes are well By LORI OLIWENSTEIN . computer and conduct database By SHERRY WEITZEN Patients are urged to keep these instructed in ho~ to keep others · Staff searches. One ofthese,. Ms. Zina Staff areas dry and clean during this dafe from getting the disease Shevchik, explained how the Recently, there has been a lot of talk about the virus, Herpes Simplex II. This virus has been around ever since the beginning of the human race, yet it is only lately that people have become so overly concerned about catching it. ·. Although Herpes Simplex II has no cure as of yet, it does not have to be a devasting disease when the proper precautions are taken .... Although there have been many informative articles .and papers written about genital herpes, many myths are still circulating about the virus that make people think that herpes is much worse than it really is. For example, it is very rare that anyone has gotten herpes from an infected inanimate object. This includes toilet seats, clothes, and other items that might have been touched. The only way herpes can be caught is by direct contact with an open sore. A herpes victim is contageous only when the open sores have appeared. The infection ap- pears between two and twenty days after exposure. The virus is in the form of sores around tbe exposed are~. The person ,may feel a lot discomfort the first time; itching, burning, pain, and possible urinary problems. Women tend to ex- perience more pain because the virus thrives in warm, dark, moist environments, such as around the female genitals. The sores may also spread to the urethral area, penis, buttocks, scrotum, bladder, or rectum. time in order to speed up the without becoming celibate Researching articles for a .search is conducted. \Data files healing process. Bathing in forever. Syphyllis and paper or thesis can often be a stored in the Latham epsom salts or other drying Gonhorrea, although curable, tedious and time con- headquarters. ()f Bibliographic agents is comforting. can be much more damaging suming project. However,. Retrieval Services and in the The {irst infectious outbreak than Herpes Simplex II when Schafferl..ibraryis now offeririg California offices of DIALOG, lasts from lUo 21 days, .and the not treated properly. a new service; computerized Inc. are accessible bY using a sores heal completely. The There is now an organization bibliographic database sear~ Deciwriter IU terminal virus becomes dormant and called HELP that is a service of ches. Using this new addition to provided by and connected retreats to the nerve cells of the the American Social Health the library, ·research for in· through the Union. College spinal region. It wiU not cause Association. This . group formation can be done quickly CompU;ting Center~\ For a any damage in those cells. After provides support, information, by computer and will result in small fee of $5, a bibliographic the initial outbreak, the lesions a~d .understanding. for herpes an appropriate bibliograptw data base consisting . of may never come back, appear VICtlffis. ~e ,Umon Colle~e within a very short period of references to journal articles~ v;ery rarely, or appear Health Servtce Is able to a~s1st time. · bOoks, research reports and regularly.. Recurring attacks anyone. with further questiOns There are currently five other materials will be cona become less severe, and the or concerns about Herpes librarians who have been structed for any specific topic. sores heaJ more q,Uickly. Simplex II. specially trained to operate the This is particularly useful for General good health ·without topics that bring together ll1Qre stress seems to influence in- M ... · u·.· . 1 . v·e· Y•. W,._ ·. ·e-l· •.c .. o·. m··.·: :' .. e·'d·. than one subject, since single frequency of attacks. . subject searches are often just Much of the pain the patient as easily done using print in- suffers is emotional. The herpes dexes. It is also useful for victim can still have an active The Union College Chapter ·of be published as one of the an- particularly narrow topics, or sex life without danger of in- Phi Beta Kappa will be hosting ciliary volumes in the New comprehensive papers like fecting his or her partner. Wen:. Helen F. Mulvey, professor of History of Ireland, a collective Union's senior thesis. informed herpes victims can history at Connecticut College, nine-volume work now jn Sometimes, too, there is no detect they will be having an on Thursday and Friday, progress. under the auspices of print equivalent, and also the attack, and they know not to January 13andl4. Prof. Mulvey the Royal Irish Academy in machine's data bases are have close contact with anyone is this year's Phi Beta Kappa Dublin. Professor Mulvey's usually updated more rapidly until after the lesions have Visiting Scholar, and will be special interest lies in the field than the print. . ' completely diSappeared. participating in classes, of conflicting interpretations There is one drawback Anyone wi~b herpes can still seminars, and will give a public and attitudes to Irish history. concerning the time covered: by have children. A woman should lecture on Thursday evening at She has written studies on Sir the data bases. Usually tell her doctor, and she will be 8;00 p.m. Charles Gavan Duffy; an Irish coverage begins in the ·1970's, closely monitered throughout Prof. Mulvey's schedule is as patriot who had a distinguished when conversion to data bases her pregnancy. If she does not follows: career as an Australian began. For publications before experience an outbreak at the statesman, and on William that it is ne~essary to use the time of delivery, the baby can Hartpole Lecky, the Anglo-Irish traditional print indexes. be delivered normally, but if the historian whose major work; is . Ms. Shevchik also explained mother is actively infected, the Thursday, January 13 The History of England in the that special funds contributed doctor will perform a Caesarian Eighteenth Century. In addition by Henry Schaffer in memory of section in order to protect the 10: 30-· History 142, •' Con- to her bibliographical work, . Edwin K. Tolan, librarian from baby from the virus. ~ervatism, Liberalism and Professor Mulvey is . now 1962 to 1876, are being used to Herpes , can cause damage only if a victim is not properly informed of precautions, and is not careful. Most victims who Socialism';, with Prof. Erik completing a study of Thomas subsidizethe service unti11986, Hansen. Davis, the Young lrelander; along with the $5 fee to help 2 : 3 o •• s t u d en t. F a c u 1 t y whose ideas on Ireland and its defray costs. The source of Seminar, \England and future written in the 1840s, have funding after 1986 is not yet Ire !and: An Ambivalent had a continuing influence on · known, and will depend on the Relationship\ Strauss Lounge. Irish nationalist thinking to the reception this experiment 8:00--Public Lecture, \The present day. receives. Two Irelands, North and South: Professor Mulvey was a 111 order to get ~11<:!1 a s.earch 1921-1980\ ss 016, everyone visiting professor at the done, requests must be m:aae at Caruso At Helm, Contmued from page 14 introduced by the State Senate Higher Education Committee and in July it was passed unanimously be the State Senate. Even though it has strong bipartisan support in the State Assembly with 134 cosponsors, it has yet to be passed by the Assembly. To urge the passage of this bill the ISC is mounting a lobbying campaign by asking students at colleges across the state to write their assemblyman (or assemblywoman). In addition to the HELPS bill the ISC is presently lobbying for another TAP increase. on affect the students here at Union as well as throughout the state. \A\'cording to figures released by the Commission on Independent Colleges ~nd Universities, enrollment at independent colleges in New York State declined by 9,220 students. Based on a weighted average total cost of attendance of $8,940, the CICU prc:>jects that this will result in a revenue loss of approldmately $50.7 million for the state's independent colleges.\ This deficit in funds will consequently be balanced by an increase in tuition. What the students can do is not sit idle but rather get involved in the ISC. It would be foolish if Union was a member merely on paper. welcome. Reception to follow in University of Wisconsin- the Reference Desk in Schaffer the Soc. Set. faculty lounge. Madison in 1972, and on several Library. There will be a The issues, whether legislative or nonlegislative, which the ISC is concentrating UNION MEDLEY (To raise money for United Cerebral Palsey) Enter your team of 4 men or women at the track office in Alumni Gym by Wednesday, January 19. Friday~ January 14 10:30-English 71, \Literature of the Irish Renaissance\ with · Prof. William Murphy. 2: 00--F acuity Seminar, \History in the Undergraduate Curriculum\ PBK Room, Schaffer Library, all faculty welcome. Professor Mulvey has taught courses in the broad field of European history with em~ phasis on British history. Her research and teaching interests lie in the history of Ireland, especially on the period Since 1700. In 1966 Professor Mulvey published a critical study of work in Irish history since 1936 as a contribution to a collection of bibliographical essays, Changing Views on British History, sponsored by the Conference on British Studies. This has been followed by other bibliographical work, and at present. she is co-editor of a bibliographical volume soon to NOTICE TO ALL STUDENTS: FINANCIAL AID APPLICATIONS are now available in the Office Of Financial Aid, 2nd floor, Becker Ha 11. A completed appl.ication for aid, includes the FAF, which should be sent to your parents, and the Union Aid Application which is completed by you. With deadlines approaching and federal cutbacks, pick up your application NOW and submit it early. A late application will result in lessor no financial aid. The Financial Aid Office is open from 8:30 to noon and 1:00 to 4:45 p.m. every Monday through Friday. We will be happy to answer any of your questions. ' FAFS must be filed by March l, 1983, and all ~ther pap'erwork, including Federa1 tax returns .for you andyour parents, must be received .in this office by APRIL 15, 1983. occasions since 1974 has been a preliminary interview to decide visiting lecturer at Yale, par- how usefUl a search will be, and ticipating in the undergraduate a search request form will be ·seminar program 'Where she filled .out. l'he search ap- has examined the various pointment can often be made viewpoints, problems, and the same day, and the second dilemnas confronting modern interview and search take less Ireland, North and South. than an hour. The amount of Be sure to take advantage of time saved by this new service one or more of your op- for the students and faculty of portunities to see and hear Union COllege can be extremely Proffessor Mulvey. beneficial. Need ·Financial Aid for Graduate Sehool? The 1983-84 GAPSFAS, the required financial aid form for most graduate aid is now available. Pick up_ your application at the Financial Aid Office. SERIES O.N DRAFT REGISTRATION BEGINS AT UNION COLLEGE . A series of talks titled \What Students Should Know About Draft Registration\ opens Thursday, Jan. 13, at Union College. Sponsored by a group of concerned Union students, the talks are free and open to the public. E:ach Wi~l begin a.t 7:30 p.m. in Strauss-Lounge, Carnegie Hall. The Collaqllia are as follows: January 6, 1983 Draft Registration and You. T~e status of Draft Registration in the United States today, including the legal, political, and social implications of the issue. Speakers: -Mr. Van Zwisohn--A.J. Muste Peace Foundation, and the War Resistors'League -Dave Miller·-Director of The Knolls Action ProJect January 13, 1983 Pacifism and the Draft -Mike Fitzsimmons--Local Draft Resistor and an expert on pacifist issues. -Father James MiJi'PhY\·Cathollc Priest and Pacifist January 19, 1983 Why We Need a Military Draft -Invited speaker will be a representative of the American Legion · Joitnuary 20, 1983 Women and the Draft -Spe.akers still under consideration January 27, 1983 Tl}e History of Pacifism -Dr. Law.rence Whittner·-History Professor at· SU NYA ~Dr. William Bristol--History Professor ~t Union College. $50 per speaker (five speakers)-·$250. The Women's Com- mission and N~twork will pay the honoraria for the speakers on \Women and the Draft.\ . .. ......... · - ~ - bl OI pl S< al w le S( m ,., e1 S( d4 m be cl e1 p; h1 aJ SE e1 rr. \• ' rE w pl o' Cl rr: tt A te In ta b: 'o t p b tl Sl a ~ (l IE rc d d o: sj N t< n t1 P· a

- l ~ase ~ina the files 1am phic the OG, 1g a inal ~ted ege r a )hie of les, and :on- pic. for ore ,gle ust in .. for or ike :is. no the t·re ily ck by lly I'S, :es ~re he ed ed of 'ffi to 16, ~lp of et llt at ~r a ' OONOOBDIENf$1$, JantUJ,ry 1~, 198!· Page 5 I ' ' . FEATURES Liberal Learning? Behind the Scenes By MATI' N~NKIN Staff The fdllowing editorial was broadcast last Sunday evening on the 6:15 WRUC news. It is printed here in its entirety. . There is an injustice in this school which I simply cannot allow to go on for any longer. With Union's current liberal Iearntng program, countless social science and humanities majors are allowed t() take ''special\ courses in engineering and -the natural sciences. These courses .are~ designed specifically for non- \ majors who are not expected to be able to compete with .future chemists, physicists, and engineers. ·However, com- parative cour,ses · in the - humanities and social sciences are not offered? ! The only reasonable and sensible solution is to allow engineers and natural science majors to ha.ve their own \special'' courses that would be restricted to others. After all, why shOuld they· be denied the pleasure of getting up at siX o'clock in the morning for a card? Following here are som~ of my own suggestions fol;' courses that I'm sure the Academic Affairs Council will be in· terested in: Economics 72. Shopping (B) In this course students will be taught how to use coupons, go bargain~hunting, and get the best value for their dollar. Trips to local shopping malls are planned and store owners will be brought in as special lec- turers. Not open to social science-humanities majors or anyone who has met Andy Wax's mother .. Political Science 84. Voting (B) In this course, students will learn how to register to vote, read a ballot, and make wise · decisions in choosing can- didates. The course will be offered Fall term so that students may vote in the November elections.· Not open to social science-humanities majors or anyo11_e who thinks that Ronald Reagan is peacefully living out his life in an old movie actors home in Hollywood .. EngUSbOO. The Library (A, D) In this course, held in Schaffer l.ibtary, students will explore the mysterious world of~ the card catalogue, the reference section, and the circulation . desk. Library personnel will be brought in regularly to answer questions and students will be required to. spend a mininuun of two nights per week among the stacks on the third floor. Not open to .social science- humanities majors. 'EngUsh 91. Letterwriting (A) Students in this course· will '.be taught . how to write sample letters to friends, relatives, and prospectiv.e. employers. In addition to this, students will also learn how to address ari envelope, put the correct postage on it, and deposit it in a .mailbox. Students will he given the opportunity to visit local post offices and ta.lk to mailmen. Not open to social sciences-humanities majors or anyone who knows their local zip cOde. Modern Languages 34. Conventional Speech (D) In this course, students will be taught to say essential words and phrases in different countries. Languages included · will be Spanish, French, German, Russian, Hebrew, Japanese, Chinese, Italian and Latin, with approximately one week devoted to each. Sample phrases will include such things as ~'Where is the nearest bathroom?\ ''There is a cockroach in my food!, and \Is there anyone here who knows how to speak English?\ Not open to ·social science- humanities majors or anyone who has eaten in a foreign restaurant. \ To sum it all up, let us just say that there is no reason why future engineers, pre-meds, and others of that ilk should be expected to take courses that are not directly useful to them. -This is• Matt Nankin with one man's opinion. Note: )'he opini9ns expressed_ by Mr. Nankin do not necessarily represent those of WRUC, Coacordy or Darryl. By PETER CLOUSE Staff It is now 7:50a.m. and the last of the guests, officials, and press .people are boarding the fleet of buses that will take them from the VIP launch viewing sight. All that ts left of the Columbia is a faint white vapor traiL It was a magnificent sight to behold. Now that Colwnbia speeds into space, what is. left? Why trek all the way down to Ken- nedy Space Center for what amountsto90seconds? Maybe I can offer some type of ex- planation. My thanks to Apollo 7 astronaut Walter Cunningham for despribing part of what I experienced in discussing the launch of Apollo 17: ... I recorded the final count. . You can hear it over the hum of the crowd noise, the monotone voice; nor :more emotional than the pUblic address system at an airport ... But my scalp tingled. I heard m;y own voice whispering, \Come on Seventeen, let's go,\ and it didn't sound like me. At lift-off, the roar of the crowd was spontaneous-pure excitement. You could feel the vibrations. And the sound rolled over us, even as they hit us. Damrnit, people cried. How do you tell anyone that you saw the earth tremble? You don't get that on television. Nor can a home viewer fully appreciate the beautiful fireball that grows underneath the orbiter after the main engines kick in. Viewed through a telescopic ~ens, it re~embles a small sun. Shortly after this, the spent oxygen and hydrogen fuels create enormous biUowing clouds. It seems like an eternity before the \tangerine\ (as Florida ()f· ficials call it) colored external · tank pierces the white envelope. Then, majestically, the orbiter and its twin fire-spewing solid rocket boosters le~p from the pad. Gracefully, the whole configuration rotates and arcs its flight path, a maneuver that places the orbiter with its ''back\ to earth. Technology imitating art at perhaps the highest level. There is much more to the picture, however. 2:45 a.m. It was an eerie THE ROCK-N-ROLL PIZZA PUB the only FREE delivery pizza pub on campus NOW BRINGS YOU / FREE TOPPINGS . That's right, for the next seven days you can get any one topping (''shrooms, pepperoni, peppers, onions, JN:Iteese, sausage) on any LARGE PIE. FREE from Rock-n-Roll PIZZA Call Us: 370-6060 Open: 4:30-? Effective: 1/13-1/20 feeling ·as I entered the press gate of the Kennedy Space Center· complex. Before going any furtller, credentials were checked and color cOded badges were handed out. NAS~ security was stationed at later gates to make sure no one became ''lost.\ The long lines of .car:s mentioned in newscasts were nowhere to be found. It was pitch black. driving doWn the main road which led to the huge Vehicle Assembly Building (V AB), but the press site was flooded with light. It was strangely quiet as the car's ignition faded. Not 200 feet from the parking area was the VAB and the actual Firing Room. Three miles away, across the bay, sat Columbia in its launch configurationl Emblazoned by powerful floodlights, the space veteran , looked like a polished diamond. Walking past the lines of cars, I was struck by the emblems they bore. Across the rear windows of many, the faded mission patches of Apollo, Gemini, and even some Mer- cury flights bore silent witness to the assignments of their owners. These were veteran space reporters.; people who covered man's .first feeble steps into space before I was born. Just rubbing shoulders with them was a sobering ex- perience. There were vans from Canon, Minolta, Nikon,. and Olympus camera companies packed with the best photographers that could be found. Looking down at the camera and multitude of lenses that I was allowed to use and glancing at the special instructions scrawled on a yellow legal pad, I swallowed hard. This would be quite a feat for someone who had never used anything that wasn~t an instamatic before. (The evening before, . I had a nightmare . in which the shutter locked dUring the launch~ Talk about waking up . in a cold sweat.) The air was full of tension; the tension of expectation. I felt it clearly. This now sleepy location would soon awaken and become the focus of the world's attention once again. I · had never been a part of anything like this before. Any notion of catching a few hours of sleep before the 7: 19 a.m. launch quickly dissipated. NASA had become a pro at playing up to the press. The space agency had constructed a geodesic dome as a press center. Inside this building were desks, chairs, telephones, typewriters, television monitors, and numerous NASA public relations personnel. After talking to one of these people, I learned that tbere were no more press· kits to be had, but I could \help myself\ to the pamphlets that lined one section of the building. Did you ever have a dream in which you were told you could take anything as long as you could carry it? That's how I felt. NBC, CBS, and ABC each had broadcasting booths next to the dome and the support crews of each company could be found inside mobile trailers sand- wiched between miles of cables, monitors, camet•as, and a feast that was straight from a family reunion picnic. It was 4:30 a.m. Rain began to pelt the newscasters who were filing late--night. reports under the glare .of camera lights. A feeling of terror seized me. Would this great event be stopped before ~it really began? No; too much was riding on this mission. I later heard that NASA would have tried a launch during a blizzard in order to prov:e to the world the dependabili~y of the shuttle. It bad stopped raining. It was 4:45 a.m. The next 10 minutes would prove to be ·some of the most Inernorable of the trip. I had heard someone say, \Hi Senator,\ to a short, stocky lilan who walked by. After a little questioping, I discovered that the man was (now fonner) Senator Harrison \Jack\ Sch- mitt {R-New Mexico). Perhaps more importantly, depending on one's priorities, he was the only civilian to walk on the moon as a crewmember of Apollo 17 in 1972. I started off in the darkness to find one of the 12 humans to have walked on ~another celestial body. When I finally caught up with him and introduced myself, he stuck out his hand and smiled broadly. As oqr hands clasped, one thought ran through my mind: My, God, that had has _ been on the MOON. He spoke of his recent reelection bid in a philosophical manner (\Well those things happen. We'll work on it next time.\) and seemed more comfortable discussing the launch. The PA system broke into the conversation; it was time to take a bus ride. The Senator wished me luck. Being at the press site three mUes away was certainly good enough. However, the VIP area might afford a better vantage point. And who knows who might be there? In the pre-dawn darkness, the NASA press bus made its way past a long line of charter buses waiting to enter the VIP site. We actually were some .of the first people there . As the sun climbed into the sky, the crowds grew and the PA system echoed its words in every direction over the plain of the land. ~ it turned out, this site provided a much better view of the launch. Everything was set. The camera, tripod, and shutter speeds were checked countless times. My thanks to an amateur photographer who doublechecked all my settings. The crowd began to settle in expectation of things to come. \15 ... 14 ... 13 ... \ We all counted together. The orbiter had already 'been on internal power .for three minutes. You could hear people softly saying, \Come on, baby.\ The engines started as well as the motor drives of cameras. Through the white, billowing vapor cloud, · Continued on page .6 - WANT·A SUMMER CAMP -JOB? Positions ·available {male-female!' Specialist~· in aU athle.tic areas; AssiStants to Tennis Pro; Golf; GymnastiCS; Swutt· ming (WSit SmaUcraft (sailing-canoeingt Riflerr. Archery; Art1 and Craftl (general shop, WOodwot'king); Ceramics; Sewing; Computer Science; Photography; Science (general electronicst Music; Dramatics; Pioneering; Trapping; Gen· eral CounseiOfS, 20+. Camp located in Nonheastarn .Pennsvt· vania (Poconos). For further information write to: Tra11•a End Camp, c/o Beach Lake, Inc., A4' 215 Adams Street. Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

OONOORDI~NS!S, JanuarY t}J, 198$ .1 ~ge,6 FEATURES . - ' . -- . . . - . - . -·. ' -. !Transfers at Unionl·The Final Countdown Continue~ ftom pQge 5' By TEDKONDRIS Staff Each term many students transfer in and out of Union College. This reporter had the opportunity to look over ,the records of these transfers to find out the overall trend. But, this reporter pased up that opportunity. Tllis reporter h~s spent many minutes.of research to get to the source of this great problem faced by every m~n. woman, and child upon this earth. I contacted. an electronics engineer to put a tiny radio transmitter in a pen. The pen was used as bait for whatever evil organization is committing this great crime. You may laugh now, but wait until you read about the results. the shuttle rose majesticallf. Slowly, the sound enveloped us. It was as if I was standing in· front of a huge speaker with the volume as high as possible. It· shook the entire body. Clenched fists punched the. air. Someone waved an American flag. It was a very patriotic and in- spirational moment. couraged me from the o11tset, to those who let me use their equipment and expertise, stay with them in Florida and ac· company me to Kennedy Space Center, and who· realized that there is still room ii1 the world for compassion. J,i'inally I would like to thank my fam.ily for reminding me that pressure builds .. character.'' YQu see, with a, lot of bard work and a little ,prayer, dr.ei}ms really do come true .. You may be wondering what I'm writing about, since I'm not writing about the transfer situation. · Well, you see, I started out with every intention of writing about tra-nsfers. Then, came the trouble. It was found that the .pens were being• taken to various hiding .places on campus before being shipped to Cuba wbere they were put in cigar ooxes ans smuggled back into the United States. for sale. What is disgusting it it is all legal. Further; this ring has members throughout the country on each. and every college campus. The rest, as they say, Is history. Again, one can argue, \So what?\ I am indebted to journalist Michael Boelke. · After Friday, January 21, the the price of the 1983 Y;EARBOOK will go up. I sat down, pen in hand, ready to get going, when the boiler burst. I got Up to fix it and, when I got back, my pen was gone. That's what I decided to write about when I found another pen in my drawer. Do you ever wonder what happens to your pen when you lose it? I often wonder. It seems it's always a fairly new pen. Of course, everyone loses a pen now and then, and it's always a good one. Do you ever lose a lousy pen? Do you ever find a pen? Sure, there are plenty of pens around on the floor, in stairwells, under cushions, etcetera. But, are they good pens? The ones I always find are cracked and dry. You must be eager to know what to watch out for and which people you should avoid contact with so you, too, don't lose your pen. I now reveal to you at great pers()nal risk, the identities of these perpetrators of the penultimate crime, the only people with enough mobility to make the system work, . the only people unrecognized enough tQ pass without notice - transfer students. \Still some people don't understand the euphoria over the launch of the Shuttle. Perhaps it has something to do with heroes and goals, with dedication and inventiveness, or with our hopes for our future and the future of our children and their children, too. According to. . . experts, our planet can support tl'iree billion people indefinitely. But right. now, mankind is approaching four billion. . . If the Space Shuttle does no more than. . . remind hum.anity that we must treat our tiny planet with care, it will be worth all the d()llars we spend on it. . . If it can help us look out from our plan~t it may repay us thousandS of times over. Humanity c~nnot avoid the future ... If the Space ·· Shuttle ·keeps us pushing to reach out beyond ourselves;· We may manage to solve the problems we face.\ · Hurry and buy your yearb.,ok now at the Studellt Aetiv~ities Office .. There will <be a Yearbook meeting today at 7:30 .p.m. in;.:the Yearbook RoQm .• Freshmen interested in running for Class Representative should attend the meeting on Monday, Jan. 17 in _8tra~ss Lounge. In conclusion, I would like to thank the numerous people who retaught me the real meanings of friendship and under· standing~ from those who en- -WE DELIVER 374-1888'. 464 State St. The area's oldest and largest computer dealer is now offering major discounts to students and faculty on selected computer equipment. By speCial arrangement with the Hudson-Mohawk Association of Colleges and Universities, the Computer Room is slashing 15 to 20% off Hs.t prices to eligible college students. faculty and employees. For .. example, you can purchase the IBM personal computer at an unbeliev- able 20% off the list price! Or the popular Apple II+ personal computer with disk drive for 18% off the list price. BRING YDUR I.D. Students will be asked to provide proof of enrollment from their university or college. Faculty will be asked to show dn I.D. Students and faculty are required to identify themselves to the store manager-ptiorto shopping in order to purchase under this plan. All sales will be by cash, bank check or certified check at tht? time the equipment is picked up, Credit cards will not be accepted. Schene·ctady~ NY· CHECK DUT T,HE COMPUTER FIDGM TDDAY Check out our entire list of specially priced computers and equipment today. The friendly experts at the Computer Room will onalyze your needs and suggest the system thafs right for you- at a price YOLJ can afford. The area's oldest and largest computer dealer THE COM.PUTER ROOM capital District: 1492 Central Avenue, Colonie. (SlS.) 869-3811l Glens !=ails: .28 Ridge Street • (51 B) i'98~ 1446 . ,

.·. ..:;;;: for •. / (JONOORDIENSIS, January 18, 1988 Page 7 ' News· in Brie.f By BOB VAN VOJliS Staff McCartney Unmasked Sources close to Paul McCartney, one-time Beatie and 'leader of the group Wings, have revea·led that the popular .recording artist was indeed killed in an accident in the late 1960s as was rumored at the time. In a related an- nouncement, Union College officials have disclosed the identity of McCartney's replacement as Professor John Tetley of the Union College Department of Psychology. Said Tetley (winner of a 1967 Paul McCartney look-alike contest), \It was the ideal opportunity to get into the head of a rock mega-star.\ When asked to . name his· greatest success in his nearly fifteen years as Paul McCartney, Tetley . pqinted to an article entitled \Larry Moe, , Curly: Your Favorite Stooge and What This Says About You.\ ''This paper really opened up a vital new area-I've also heard that the 'Let it Be' thing was well received.\ Tetley is apparently sur- prised .by all of the media at- tention he has received. \I'm not the first psychologist to do this sort of research, you know.\ Indeed, psychologists Who have made their names in this way include Pink Freud, B.F. Skynyrd, as well as Crosby, Stills, Nash and -Jung. · Medical Research Inspired by the continUing success of Barney Clark, the retired dentist who has been kept alive for several weeks by means of an artificial heart, researchers at Union's own Center · for Biomed·ical Engineering have reported that they also are making remarkable progress in the area of prosthetic research. ''It's really very exciting,\ says center director Bailey R. Butterfield, \we're breaking new ground every day. In fact, even as we speak we are working to _ perfect a device which will replace the teeth of people who have lost them due to disease or accident. Regrettably, we've lost three human su)Jjects,. but we hope to have these 'Artificial Teeth' on the market by 1986.\ Also on the drawing board: an optical ina strument to be worn over the eyes which will-provide relief to millions who are. somewhat nea:r-sigl1ted and a sound amplification device for people with poor hearing. Prosthetic engineering Is a fascinating new field and, as always, Union College is on the leading edge. Union VD Down According to Health Service Director Tanya Hedankoff, the number of cases of herpes and gonorrhea reported this past fall term was down dramatically from falll981. The number of j>eople reporting gonorrhea infections fell by nearly 85 percent, while cases of herpes dropped from 117 to just two. When pressed to explain this ·phenomenon, Hedankoff GRADUATE STUDIES IN BlOMEDI,CAL RESEARCH Basic Medical Science Department Active Research .Programs Seeking Qualified Applicants Tuition and Stipend Support Available For Further Information Contact:· Graduate Com'miUee ~ Department of Physiology Albany Medical College Albany, N.Bv. 12208 . (518·445-5651) :9 < ~EATURES Soviet News Agency reveals: Brezhnev killed in Politburo karate lesson. refused to comment. ''It's kind of hard to tell.\ In other bealth news, it has been revealed that Health Service Director Tanya Hedankoff has issued a \very strong recommendation'' that the ackninistration not change the new campus canine policy put into effect last term. The · policy requires loose dogs to be kept off campus and is presently under review. No explanation for the recom· m~ndation was offered. Editorial in Brief I believe that full-scale nuclear war is something which shoul~ be avoided. I .also feel that cannabalism on a large scale would not be a positive force in our society. At the same flme, it seems reasonable to assume t];lat the siJn will ris.e tomorrow ... and the next day as well. Silnilarly, I would be the . first to disagre.e :with a person who seriously suggested that small children should be made to build prefabricated condominiums in forced labor camps. This would be wrong. To conclude, I think that ft is im- portant for people to brush and floss regularly. Concordiensis resp,onsible vieWpoints. A Plea For Help welcomes opposing Editor's Note: it seems that there has been some dissatisfaction among the members of the Editol'\ial Board The discoveries continue ... Hughes Story. In 1947 a man flew the Flying Boat, \Hercules\ - the largest airplane In the world. The man was Howard Robard Hughes. His ingenious ideas and explorations brought new discoveries in aerodynamics, c;ommunications, aviomcs, electronics ... And the early years of ·Hughes Aircraft Company. Today, Hughes no longer, builds airplanes but the discoveries and exploration of ideas continue ... The company's long history of technological firsts, including the first working laser, first 3-D radar. and first synchronous-orbit spacecraft position Hughes _as ~ world leader in today's electromcs 1ndustry. Company-wide opportunities: • Electrical, Mechanical, Manufacturing or Industrial El\!gineering • Materials • Computer Science • Physics • Industrial/Electronic Technology Requirements may vary. Check with your placement .office for more details. Find out how y6u can be part of the continuing Hughes Story in twelve ~outhern Calif()rnia locations and Tucson, Arizona, regarding \News in Brief.\ The illegible scribblings on stolen bits of sanitarium toilet paper, the meaningless strings of profanities-well, , as you can see, they begin to add up. There is even talk of charging the author advertising rates for running his column. I feel that this would be wrong. A life is a life, no matter how pathetic and pointless it might be. For this reason I ask for your help. All that I ask is that you register your support for the column between the hours of 9 am and 5 pm, Monday through Friday in the Student Counseling Center. Go to the psychologist on duty and shout (as loudly as possible), \If 'News ih Brief' is discontinued I think I will shoot myself.'' HewiUknowwhat you ·mean. Please help. Hughes Story. Write yourself m. Hughes Corporate College Relations Dept. NC, Bldg, C2/B178 P.O, Box 1042 El Segundo, CA 90245 Hughes representatives will be on campus January 26 (See y()ur placement office lor an appointment) Equal Opportunlly Employer U S C111zensh1p Requ ~red . Crealing a new world with electronics Write arself in. [HUG-H-ES! ~------------------J Deportment of the Arts presents Lunchtime Harpsichord Concert Series ~Y Hugh Allen Wilson -Every W·ed. Afternoon, 12:45·.1: 15 p.m. Jan. 19-Mar. 2 ARTS 202 The public is cordially inVited to attend

Page 8 OONpORDIENSIS~ Janti.aryJ 13, 1988 FourultJ ot Union College 1877 ~---------- ----~----- Fo.rum Follies The Student Forum can be likened to our recent \lame duck\ Congress--much undertaken and little achieved. Last term, Forum members bantered back and forth on a number of issues vitally important to the student body. The only action taken was foreed on the Forum by individuals outside of the organization. Observers agree that little initiative is shown by our elected representatives and the problem, if unchecked, could continue. A classic example is the pending financial crisis facing all student groups. - After weeks of uncertainty, the Forum needs yet another two weeks to assess the situation. That brings the total time for assessment to· ten weeks. We are assured by the Vice·Preside:nt of Finance that all is well and under control. The community needs figures and not words to avoid bankruptcy. Asid'e from their financial achievements,. what exactly has the Student Forum done in 1982? Buse~;~ were provided for a limited number of football games. New paperwork was introduced and old completed, when not lost. The ColJege became a member of the Independent Student Coalition, but only after much prodding by concerned students and administrators. This track record leaves much to be desired. Let us hope that 1983 b:rings with it productivity and not procrastination. _Closings Unpopular ·The campus is in an uproar over the closing of the Dutch Hollow Pub and the Rathskellar on selected nights. The students unanimously' cry \no! \ and their decision should be respected. After all, these locations provide a service to the students on a non· . profit basis. Normal busine~s thinking must be modified under these circumstances. Of course, the community wants the Food Service to remain solvent. But, hated policies will cause lower overall patronage in addition to forcing stu( .. ~nts to carouse off-campus. There is a serious, underlying question to be addressed. The Food Service has carte blanche to implement policy, ranging from enforcement of State law to service selection. What is needed is mor-e effective student involvement in the decision- making processes and public question of rationale. With. better communication, situations like this could be avoided. The Student Forum agenda need not be so light. Here is the perfect opportunity to represent your constituency. Reforn1s De~nanded The Student Conduct Code desperately needs to be improved·. The guidelines are filled with gaps, ambiguities and simple inconsistencies. The Student Affairs Council is undertaking the job and has given it top priority. It is necessary for the Forum to ride the SAC to ensure that the reworking fs done with all due haste. What is at sta:ke is simple justice. Bureaucratic runaround will be a crime in itself. But, new conduct standards will be useless Without the reorganization of the Conduct Committee. At least, the present leadership should be removed for .lmproprJeties in office. Recommendations are made against individuals and organizations without these defendants-of- sorts being allowed to testify on their own behalf. People willing to volunteer information are discouraged .from doing so because of mismanagement. Meetings are cancelled at the whim .of the leadership in total disregard of simple courtesies:- We ask how can level-headed decisions be handed down in an atmosphere of chaos? Those simple rights guaranteed students by the College Handbook are being shrugged off by the Committee as unimportant and not worthy of respect. 'The community will not tolerate these violations. Remember, the Student Conduct Committe,e is not above being charged With guideline offenses. Concorcliensis needs clerical help, especially typists. Those interested please call x6155 'LETTERS Scholarships Available To the Editor: As Union'.s Director of Fmancial Aid, I have seen more . students requesting a€lditional help this .past fall than I have ever seen before, That ·is why it disturbs me greatly to receive only four applicationa for a $500 Tri-Delta Sorority Scholarship. This Scholarship was made available by Union's Ch~ptet .of Tri-Delta through their fund raising efforts. Any woman at· Union College may apply'; Application forms are available in the Office of. Financial Aid. The deadline for submission has been- extended to January ~1. The Winner will be annotinced on or ·before-February ·1. · · l have to believe that there are more students . on . this campus in need of additional · help than the applications ·for . this scholarship suggest. If you . are a woman and have not been able to secure assistance or enough aid from the Office of Financial Aid~ do not neglect this golden opportunity, . Sincerely, · Robert J. Massa Director of ]financial Aid Cooperation Solicited · To the Editor: · I would like to call the students' attention to a matter of some concern that affects all of us and to ask for your cooperation in helping to find a solution. I ·refer to the area betwe_en Schaffer Library and Alumni: Gym which as become an ugly potpourri of fr~temity~ sorority insignia reminiscent of the New York City grafitti- riddled subway cars. .S'I.lfely that i:!i not what we would wish _ our camp~ to look iike. College. (I assume that the Idol · will continue to be redecora~ed according to tradition, but the walks, trees, and library walls · are off limits}. I would very· much appreciate everyone's • cooperation in this matter and thank you· in advance for your . help. I am asking for every s(udent's -cooperation · in stop.. ping the practice of writing fraternity~sorority insignia on the walks immediately behind Schaffe.r Library, and, in particular, the garden wall that. runs.. aJong the back of the Library. This_ conduct is no longer acceptable at the Joseph L. Ma.mriiola D~anofStudimts Drinking Policies Opposed To the Editor: I think that it is about time, . we, the students at Union College, stood up and opposed the stringent regulations of campus drinking policies. I will agree we must abide by the New York State law. When we close the doors of the Ratskellar and the Dutch Hollow Pub, simultaneously. we are in essence destroying the social life on campus. Social life is an integral part of a college from running or a high from mj.nd altering drugs or a high just from playing Foosball in the Skellar after the library is closed. For many of -\IS who live off campus, the _ Sltellar and the · Pub are meeeting places just to talk and have a beer or two. If we are now' forced to frequent local taverns, there will probably be more injuries to students as a result. There will probably· be more students dtiving after one or two drinks; they will' be driving later than normal, possibly under adverse :winter .conr;Jitions. We will all soon see that the drinking ·problems on campus will not be solved by closing the campus watering holes. From personal experience : I have learned that most individuals who abuse alcohol receive much more effective advice from their peers; no one really wants to know a drunk. MarcColoway '83 experienc~, without it how -------....,_ .......... _______ __........_ ........ _______ ....J would the students relieve their academic tensions. I believe · that most of the students · cherish their leisure time and , indulge in activities which are therapeutic to their soul. We aU find relaxation in some way, whether it is a natural high Spirits of Union The following quote was originally publi~hed in the ConcordiensJs on N.;tvember 12, 1948 under the title wspirits' of Union;': \What could be more con- ducive to whistling merry patter than the association .of relaXing minds after several hours of belaboring books. It ' does not seem likely that a choice between books and brew would be for long a cardinal consideration. Most students are in college to graduate, and would for selfish motives seek . the development of mind before salving fevered spirits.\ Like the above author we .find it distasteful that there is not a social gathering place on campus on Sunday and Monday evenings. Why? Respectfully Patrick M;ulvaney and MargaretSh~ -Welcome Baclc <!Con cor Editors-in..Chief - A.J. Brrn$ky, Dianne Pavacic Managing Editor JulianneAbe1rnan News Editors Marcy Burstiner, Doug Landon Editorial Page Editor · D.C. Owens Featlu-esEditor · NormanBirnbach Associate Features Editor Donna Getson Arts Editors Glenn Krutoff, Roberta Rubinstein CampusPageEditor . CindyJ. Tenner Sports Editors Drew Hurley, Rick Sapir Layout Advisor Peter Mohr Subscription Editor . Gregg Shack Photo Editor .Patricia E. Sacks Associate Photo Editor Mary Phillips Sports Photo Editor Robert Tang ~Political Cartoonist DavidNeiblum Staff Jenny Amler, Jan Baran, Jay Baruch, Sharon Beilenson, Ju11 Bradley, Sue Brand, Patty Callahan, Jodi Cohen, Scott Collins, Michael DeVito, Kathy Duffy, Susan Engel, Tim. Enswiler, David Fitzgerald, Cathy Gifford, Janice Glidden, Sue Golden, Kathy Keaveney, Ted Kendris, Robin King, Susan Kone, TracyLaMarca., Rebecca Lee, Scott McGraw,. Tom Millea, David Murray, Matt Nankin, Michelle Novelle, Joan. O'Connor, Nancy Pettinella, Bruce Rasmussen, Michele Rein, Andrew Rosen, AmySchachter, FranklinSchneider; Laura Shapiro, YvetteSariSheer, Susan Singer, Gayle Stein, Bob Van Voris, Peter Weishart, Sherry Weitzen, ScQtt Wykoff, Dave Zuckerberg Photo Staff Brian Bilsback, Tom Campbell, Mike Elstein, Russ Fein, Jon Heimer, Paul Kline, Jord~ Most, ChrisLacy,DuncanMcKenzie, · Bonnie Rosenberg, Sue SerenSlta, Gregg Shack, Alan Tenenbaum CONCORDIENSIS is pUblished every Thilrsday by-~the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: SU$quehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388; Sidney, New York 13838J (607) 563-7151. Entered in tbe Schenectady Post Offtce as' lf\lr.Sf. class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, .delivered anywhere in flle United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS), and utiliZes the College News Bureau (CNB). Office Telephone • 3'16-6155 - iiiiii - - . - T sl :R a! fr pi u h al 01 . d• tr N tt 1 Se( Th• the be< Inc wo em ret ·pe< anc All 1 t\1 ta Wl hil kil ch stc ex Th pr• w~ af1 ffil ar' thl wl ' yo sa: pe ' sa us ge ha , we to to ar: be w; \V( jo· If Cl:l Se m g(] th pc be ta vc C<J SE WI

- -- .S en or· of ICt · :y, .. sa id - lol ed ~e lls ry 's ld Ill\. Ia ts OONOORDIEN81S, JQ/llltW/I\Y 1311 1983 Page9 COMMENTARIES - Paraquat On the Spot . . Nott_ Underfunded, little is being ·done to remedy the .situation. Since a perusal-of · While the article entitled, Upl•n College maga~e in· \Nott Not Funded,.\ proved to· dicates that the alumni are · be quite lnformative, a contribtJting ntillions of dollars . modicum of_ essential history annually, the problem seems to To the Edjtom: w!ls lacking. lie in the diversion of these In the · spring of 1980, the funds to other areas. student organizers of the Nott - With th~ · combinatiQil of an Restoration Committee were annual tuition fee approaching able to solicit contributions· five figures, financial .aid from graduating seniors on the decreas~ng at an equally premise that this. would, with alarming tate, and little ot no .. the help·ofSc~ool officials, elicit .support from the ad- larger . contributions from . ministration or Board · of alumni. Obviously, tbis pas not Trustees, students can hardly ·. occurred. · ·be criticized for losing en- . Despite . the rapid thusiasm in this project. · deterioration of the Nott ani:l the · truth of the cliche that, ·~The Nott Memorial is undeniably the symbOl of Union College,\ Sincerely yours, Richard A. ,Benedikt . By KELLY SPRINGFIELD The U. S. government an~ nounced last week that it Will resUine its paraquat-spraying ·operations in several countries that traditionally supply the U.S. with marijuana. The an- nouncement stated that government studies indicate that paraquat does not result in long~term damage to users of marljuana that has been sprayed with the chemical. This disclosure leads us to question the sincerity of the report. For the government now appears to be re-instating a program that harms neitber the plant nor the user. Thus, we must conclude that the U.S. has an enormous surplus of the chemical that we encourage Dooley Lives . By Art Buchwald The secret is out. Social Security is in a lot of troubl!i. The politicians will tell you that the system is going broke because: (A) Cost -of Living Indexing is too--high. (B) -The work force is net contributing enough money to pay for the retired. (C) · The .payout for people is three times what tJ;ley and their companies put in. (D) All of the above. But rio one will d.are mention the real reason. I found it out by talking to a man who said he was eighty-three years old. · \You don't look it,\ I told him. \I am. And that's what's killing Social Security,'' he chuckled. \When Hoosevelt started the thing in the '30s he expected me to die when I hit 67. That's what the whole damn program was- based on. People was supposed to die a few years after they collected their money. Now we're all hanging around in our 70s. ana 80s and the government doesn't know what to do about us.'' \I donlt believe anyone wants you to die before your time,\ I said. \America reveres its old people.\ \They do and they don't,'' he said. \They're not about to kill us, but at the same time, they're getting pretty darned mad they have to pay for us being alive.\ Well, it is riurden on the · working· class,\ I admitted. \Somebody should have thought of that when they started the .system .. The smart alecks in the New Deal drew up these fancy graphs and said, 'If Dooley, that's my name, dies at 67 and Mrs. Dooley dies at 70; we should have enough jn the pot to take care of them.' Well, M~s. Dooley and I are doing qwte well, thank you, and now th~ (JOt is empty.\ I guess they're going to have to come up with dire measures to replenish the pot.\ \They haven't come up with any. good. ones yet. The thinking behind Social Security was they wanted us to all get out of the !I'Ork force by 65 to open up the Job market for the young folks. If t~ey change it and say you can t collect your Social Security until you're 70, that m~ans the younger folks are gomg to get furious. because they can't have our jobs. If the Politicians cut back on our bt ~nefits tbey got a tiger by the atl because the senior citizen vote is the most powerful. in the ~ountry. And if they raise Social Security taxes for the .people Who are now working,. nobody is going tQ. be able to go out and buy the things that's supposed to get us out of the recession. You don't· ha:ve to be an Alan Greenspan to figure that out.\ \What's the solution?\ 'fTJlere ain't on~, son. That's what I ke~p tellmg you. The longer we live the worse it's going lo be for everybody. Every time the medical profession finds a cure for a disease there is someone over in the Social Security Fund hitting his head against his computer.\ \But we're a rich country. Surely we can take care of our old people in their September years.\ . . \It isn't September, son, it's our December years. We're two months farther down the road than · their · actuarial tables. Look, don't think I'm cold~ hearted about the problem. Mrs. Dooley and I were talking it over the other night and I said, 'Mama, do you wa:ntto die to save the Social Security system?' And she said, 'Not on your life! Do you?' I said, 'Nope. ~·m just hitting my prime.\' \I think you both made the right decision,\ I said. \We didn;t have too many . choices. But I'll tell · · you something, son. When that trust ~ fund goes bust there's goirig to be a lot of people in this country who aren't going to look kindly on us .for hanging around.\ ''As far as I'm concerned, you and Mrs. Dooley can live as long as you want to.\ ''That's mighty kind of you to say that, son. Well, I guess I better start my daily walk. My doctor says itadds years to your life.\ ·\Where do you walk?\ \Past the White House, the Capitol and the Social Security Bull ding. Every time they. see me strutting by it drives- them up the wall.\ (c) 1982, Los Angeles Times Syndicate ~L~tters to the ed:itor must· be submitted ·to Concordiensis .- by~ 7:00p.m. on Tuesday_ AH letters must be typed, double- spaced, o.n non-erasable paper. Letters must include name and telephone number; names will be withheld on request. Concordiensis reserves the .right to edit any letter for reasons of space. foreign countries to spray on their marijuana cropfc:>r a type of \.placebo effect\ ·that when pot growers. see the planes. spraying their crops, they will think their .plants are being poisoned and not e:xport their crop for f~r of harmjng their fellow man. Obviously the government is distressed at their own reports tbat despite millions Of dollars spent on drug-policy en- forcement,.our internal demand is still met by the world's ex- ternal supply. They have therefore .re-adopted the policy of injuring the pot consumer. This type of law enforcement immediately jeopardizes the health of the consumer, risking permanent damage to the person at the instant he or . she breaks the law. No other type of crime warrants this \immediate jqstice\ in our legal system. Yet the victimless crime of pot consumption does. One cannot solely credit this frenzied puritanical assault on marijuana users to the Reagan administration, for paraquat spraying was last conducted by our toothful wonder from Plains, Ga., Jinuny Carter. There is a difference in the two separate paraquat actions, however. The chemical spraying during the Carter administration drew much media attention and subsequent pressure from the .public. This time the paraquat spraying iS not .garnering the media atu tention it once enjoyed. Also, the people of today's society are more concerned with. the m01·e inunediate problems of our economy and international relationships. Therefore, we cannot hope to find much op-- position to the }teagan ad- Qlinistration's present action. We must, however, vehemently oppose . the paraquat spraying. It is sen- seless to callously risk the well- being of the public. Paraquat spraying did not significantly reduce pot consumption in the past. Further, to. increase the severity of our position on pot . regulation only will further add to the mystique of the drug and increase the curiosity our youth has for pot. Recent surveys reveal that pot consumption is decreasing with today's youth. To begin new paraquat operations may backfire on the administration by increasing pot's intrigue while needlessly harming its present users. Money Problems By JACK ANDERSON and JOE SPEAR WASHINGTON- The Central Intelligence Agency is in- vestigating the feasibility of a global bank holiday. CIA agents have been secretly interviewing financial tycoons about the prospect, which may be the best way to pull out of the international monetary crisis. CIA experts figure that if the banks close down temporarily around the world, they may not have to close down permanently. Here are the details: International bankers have extended $500 billion in loans to developing countries. Of this amount, U.S. banks hold about $150 billion to $200 billion in bad paper. But the continuing world-wide recession has hit the Third Wor,ld cowttries right in their treasuries. TheY. don't· have a . prayer of repaying most of the · money they borrow. In some cases, they can't even meet the interest .payments. The debtor nations have only two choices. They can default on their loans or they can . borrow more money to pay the interest as it comes due. Up to now, the international bankers hav:_e preferred to lend their customers more money so they wc:>n't default In some circles, this iS known: as throwing good money after bad. At first glance, this might seem to be the banks' problem. They made the bad loans; lef them suffer the consequences. Unfortunately, it's not that simple. Many of the gigantic loans are guaranteed by the federal government. In other words, the taxpayers wlli have to bail out the banks. Take, for example, the agricultural loans guaranteed by the Commodity Credit Corporation. Uncle Sam has already paid out mqre than $400 million to keep Poland from defaulting on its agriculj;ural loans. The U.S. government has also thrown in $25 million to keep Sudan from defaulting and $18 million to Romania. And that's just one loan-guarantee program. Why does the CIA WQrry about all this? The spy agency is charged with gathering in- formation on the secrets of the international bankers. 'Ole CIA, therefore, knows what's going on - that the international monetary system could collapse. That's why the agency is proposing a bank holiday. A temporary halt to international lending, it is believed, would give the bankers and the governments involved some time to sit down and work things out.

Page 10 OONOORDIENSIS, January 18, 1988 THE ARTS' The Value of Criticism ByGLENNS,KRUTOFF Arts Editor When one picks up the New York Times or any other reputable publication, and turns to the Arts pages, one en• counters reviews of productions by various critics. Though these critics have different training and personal taste, they all have two things in common:. The ability to form relatively objective opinions on what they are witnessing, and the ability to articulate them in the form of a written critique. The key word in this statement which must not be forgotten is ophlion. No matter bow sltilled a critic may be in any area of artistic creation, he is still voicing his own opinions. This then leads lis to another question. What gives this person, who calls himself a critic, the right to write these · things? The critic, ifheisto be a suitable one; must have a suitable background in the Arts. Through training and par- ticipation in the creative process, -be becomes \qualified''. Any single critic is only capable of revi(twing those specific areas in which he is qualified to give his opinion, whether it be theatre, dance, rock music, or any combination thereof. A critic must also be careful to stay within the perimeters of these areas. Now we come to the most significant question. Is ConM cordiensis, as an \amateur\ publication, qualified to act in this capacity. In this sense, the word \qualified\ is a pit dif~ ficult. Let us rephrase the question. ls this newspaper the proper vehicle for this type of writing? Yes is our emphatic answer! If Cabaret, for example, is the proper vehicle for students wishing to 'perform, then isn't Concordlensis, by the same reasoning, the proper outlet for this type of jour· nalism? \Well they are only students.\. Actually, we are criticized quite heavily .. Shouldn't any creative work be judged on its own merits? Mediocrity should not be ex- · cused under the guise of im- maturity. Everyone at Union College ls well aware of our status as . students,. but everYthing we do should not be limited by this fact. A critic writing a re:view of a per- formance is being critical in order to give the performer objective feed.back on his performance. The criticism should be as constructive as possible. When that fails, ·it should not at least be malicious. At the other extreme, it should not be too lenient. If all reviews were \sweetened\, what real value would they have? There is no fault in good, constructive, unmalicious criticism. The fault then, if there really is any at all,. lies in the readers' own mind. At no time does this newspaper,. or any other, preach the reviews it prints as divine truth. The reader must decide, based upon his own opinion in comparison to thl:lt of the critic, how much \stock\ to take in the opinion printed. • • • Coming Soon .• Thursday, February lOth At 8 p.m. • • Proctor's Theatre Tickets are only $4.00 for students Avail~ble at the Carnegi:e Box Office (Ge·neral P'ublic $8.00) Flamencan Guitarist at O·nion By DEBBIE ALBERT and STEFFI PROPOS On Monday evening, January 10, Union College wa~ honored to have guitarist, singer and composer Juan de la Sierra perform. Senor de la Sierra was trained in Spain by many of Spain's leading Flamenco exponents, and for many years was an accompanist for Flamenco dance land song. Since then, his .scope. has broadened to include varying types of Spanish music. ae has brought together influences as diverse as Flamenco classical, jazz and . arabic guitar m the development of his own unique style. .Senor de la Sierra has per- , formed in concert, orrthe radio, and on television, and also has travelled throughout Europe; U.S., . Puerto Rico., His solo album, Espana, was released in 1979 and since then has proven to be of great success. This success was. evident in his performance Monday. aid in appreciating the meaning of the songs. One piece which depicts this idea was a song which described the actions of a lonely bullfighter. In this in- stance, the bullfighter was determined to fight under .any condition and ended up .being killed. Senor de la Sierra, through his. performance, was able to convey the pain and suffering which the J)oy un- derwent. EVEN STRAIGHT/iS CAM•T HELP IF YOU FLUNK TUITION. Approximately 40 people appeared to listen and wat~h Senor de la Sierra perform. His recital presented Spanish music ranging .from medieval romanc-es, to sefardic guitar. Throughout his performance Senor de la Sierra continually pointed out that Spanish music is a special blend of Judeo, Christian, and Arabic traditions. Before each number, the themes of the songs were relayed to· the audience as an As well as playing the guitar, Senor de la Sierra also displayed his talent on the castanellas and gave the audience a brief explanation of how to play them. Overall, it was an enjoyable concert, and Senor de, la Sierra's per-. formance gave Union College a sampling of Spanish Flamenco music. Senor de la Sierra's ~rformance here is part of a New England tour of colleges and universities .. ..W.e. at Union wish him the best and thank: him for his wonderful performance. Today, the toughest thing about going to college is finding the money to pay for it. But Army ROTC can help-two ways! \ First, you can apply for an Army ROTC scholarship. It covers tuition, books, and supplies, and pays you up to $1,000 each school year it's in effect. But even if you're not a scholarship recipient, . · ROTC can still help with financial assis- tance-up,to $1,000 a year for your last two years in the program. For more information, contact your Professor of Military v-....L•~u-......._. ARMYROTC. BEALL YOU CAM:BE. FRESHMAN AND SOPHOMORES .t-1AY Cl:\LL. COLLECT 518-783-2536 1983 109 Canal Square, Broadway, Sch'dy. Phone: 374-4332 •PIZZA• Chuse E •• ch~ut S.uaar~t Muehrc.om Pepp;tro:>n; Green P<tppen Meatbalb · Oniofta Ancho~ies AnyAddllem P•pa·Cic!:O's :Deluu N~Y.SStyle l\c:ut •US S;~ s.zs 5.25 s.zs s.zs 5.25 5.25 us .75 us Sk:illiaft.Style (Deepdbh) ·J:Z\ c:ut 2<1\ cut s.oo 8.50 5.00 10.00 uo 10.00 5.00 IO.Ot ·6.00 10.00 5.00 .... . l.oO .... . Ut lO.ot 1.00 ..... 1.00 i..S. JUS· 15 ... WE DELIVER ON CAMPUS PHONE 374-.4332 .f M thea orig The timE new Uni• pia~ Dl rept the est tech wor: sucl verf wor and ale In usw whE proc ortl case the~ ma1 eno1 ous wa~ sub. try of cap con He pre: in t not pre' Gol \)llt the to 1 difj dis wri cal pre dis' bac the rna you val wei con the rec con by the pla 1 <idE spe oft bet mo iml qui spe her the cor the eX} In i pie cor se or Ol fr P< lx w ar

Page 10 OONOORBIENSIS, January 13~ 1983 THE ARTS The Value of Criticism By GLENN S. KRUTOFF Arts Edit()r When one picks up the New York Times or ally other reputable ,publication, and turns to the Arts pages, one en- counters reviews of productions by various critics. Though these critics have different training and personal taste, they aU have two things in common: The ability to form relatively objective opinioas on what they are witnessing, and the ability to articulate them in the form of a written critique. The key word in this statement which must nat be forgotten is opinion. No matter how skilled a critic may be in any area of artistic creation, he is still voicing his own opinions. This then leads us to another question. What gives this person, who calls himself a critic, the right to write these things? The critic, if he is to be a suitable one, must have a suitable background in the Arts. Through training and par- ticipation in the creative process, he becomes \qualified\. Any single critic is only capable of reviewing those specific areas in which he is qualified to give his opinion, whether it be theatre, dance, rock music, or any combination thereaf. A critic must also be careful to stay within the perimeters of these areas. Now we come to the most significant question. Is Con- cordiensis, as an \amateur\ publication, qualified to act in this capacity. In this sense, the word \qualified\ is a bit dif- ficlllt. Let us rephrase the question. Is this newspaper the proper vehicle for this type of writing? Yes is our emphatic answer! If Cabaret, .for example, is the proper vehicle forst~dents wishing ta perform, then Isn't ConcordJensis, by the same reasoning, the proper outlet for this type of jour- nalism? \Well they are only students.\ Actually, we are criticized quite heavily. Shouldn't any creative work be judged on its own merits? Mediocrity should not be ex:- cused tu1der the guise of im- maturity. Everyone at Union College is well aware of cmr stat us as students, but ever-ythmg we do should not be limited by this fact. A critic writing a review of a per- formance is being critical In order to give the performer obJective feedback an his performance. The criticism slumld be as constructive as possible. When that fails, it should not at least be malicious. At tlu other ex:treme, it sbould not be too lenient. If all reviews were \sweetened\, what real value would they have? There is no fault in good, constructive, Uillila!icious criticism. The fault then, if there really is any at all, lies in the readers' OWIJ rnind. At no time does this newspaper, or any other, preach the reviews it prints as divine truth. The reader must decide, based upon his own opinion in comparison to that of the critic, how much \stock\ to take in the opinion printed. • • • ·coming Soon ••• Thursday, February 1Oth At 8 p.m. Proctor's Theatre Tickets are only $4.00 for students Avail~ble at the Carnegie Box Office (General Public $8.00) ~ .·.~ ~·· ~.· • ,••' •, :• ' ·' ' '' ·:. I ,'• •,' •, • • : ', .~,, '~' •-,.,_., Flamencan Guitarist at Onion By DEBBIE ALBERT and STEFFI PROPOS On Monday evening, January 10, Union College was honored to have guitarist, singer and composer Juan de Ia Sierra perform. Senor de Ia Sierra was trained in Spain by many of Spain's leading Flamenco exponents, and for many years was an accompanist for Flamenco dance land song. Since then, his scope has broadened to include varying types of Spanish music. He has brought together influences as diverse as Flamenco classical, jazz and arabic guitar in the development of his ewn unique style. Senor de la Sierra has per- formed in concert, on the radio, and on television, and also has travelled throughout Europe, U.S., Puerto Rico., His solo album, Espana, was released in 1979 and since then has proven to be of great success. This success was evident in his performance Monday. aid in appreciating the meaning of the songs. One piece which depicts this idea was a song which described the actions of a lonely bullfighter. In this in- stance, the bullfighter was determined to fight under any condition and ended up being killed. Senor de la Sierra, through his performance, was able to convey the pain and suffering which the iioy un- derwent. EVEN STRAIGHT ItS CAN'T HELP IF YOU FLUNK TUITION. Approximately 40 people appeared to listen and watch Senor de la Sierra perform. His recital presented Spanish music ranging from medieval romances, to sefardic guitar. Throughout his performance Senor de Ia Sierra continually pointed out that Spanish music is a special blend of Judeo, Christian, and Arabic traditions. Before each number, the themes of the songs were relayed to the audience as an As well as playing the guitar, Senor de Ia Sierra also displayed his talent on the castanellas and gave the audience a brief explanation of how to play them. Overall, it was an enjoyable concert, and Senor de la Sierra's per- formance gave Union College a sampling of Spanish Flamenco music. Senor de la Sierra's performance here is part of a New England tour of colleges and universities. We at Union wish him the best and thank him for his wonderful performance. Today, the toughest thing about going to college is finding the money to pay for it. But Army ROTC can help-two ways! • First, you can apply for an Army ROTC scholarship. It covers tuition, books, and supplies, and pays you up to $1,000 each school year it's in effect. But even if you're not a scholarship recipient ROTC can still help with financial assis~ tance-upto$1,000 a year for your last two years in the program. For more information, contact your Professor of Military Science ARMY ROTC. BEALL YOU CAN BE. FRESHMAN AND SOPHOMORES MAY CALL COLLECT 518-783-2 536 30 JANUARY 1983 109 Canal Square, Broadway, Sch'dy. Phone: 37 4-4332 •PIZZA• N.Y.SStrl\' II'• cut 4.25 5.25 5.25 . 5.25 5.25 5.25 5..25 5.25 5.25 Sicillian Style (l>eepdieh) 12\ cut 24\ cue Chrrot IE •. Chooru S...uurr Muahroom Pepprroni CnrnP,.p.-n Meatballs Oniorlt Anchovwa Any Add Jl,.m PaJNI Ckco'• Delu•• .75 t.25 5.00 8.50 G.OO 10.00 G.OO 10.00 i.OO 10.08 G.OO JO.OO G.OO 10.110 ,,00 IIUO ;.co 10.ae c.oo uuo 1.00 1.5e 10-'S . 15.11 r------------FRE-EAAERCli~~oEre------------1 Every time you get a plua or sandwiches valued at more than · • $4.00 you will rteelv. a coupon - save them for Fl'ft Merchandise. : • • 15Caupons Ucut Free Ccheese onty) t ~g:= 112cutFreeCcheesemtyl : ~,. ..... ~ 12 .. cut FreelllnwlldlentJ t 1 ................. Y.rkegofbNr(3daysnotla.) 100 Cou,lom Plua Party for 25 people with beer at your J ----------------------'!!.'!~-~!.!!nlty (2 days ~c;e). J. --------- ... ----- WE DELIVER ON CAMPUS PHONE 37 4-433:l M thel orig The tim I new Uni pla~ D rep1 the est tecl wor sue ver: wor and a l€ II usn wh1 pro ort cas the: ma eno ous wa' suti try of ca~ con He pre in1 not pre Go \)Ol thl to dif dis wr! cal pn dis ba< the ma yot val we cor thE rec COl by thE pla 1 ad1 SpE of 1 be1 me im qu: Sp< he1 thE COl thE ex1 In piE COl 01 fr p, [) \\

----- - .ning rhich song 1 of a i in· was any reing !rra, was and un- itar, also the the n of I, it and .a a - ... &!Q OONOORDIJJJNSIS, JantW-ry 13, 1983 - A Look Back·: Page 11 THE ARTS ~ en ... ~ Rebel Left • lD the Dark m & Cll ·c: c 0 1:0 By GLENNS. KRUTOFF · Arts EtUtor · Mounteban:ks ~tarted· tne theatrical season with . their original production of Rebel. The production .marks the first time, in recent history; that a new work had its premier at Union, directed by the playwright h~s~lf. . . Daro Berunatl has a fme reputation at l]nion and around the Capital District as an estraordinaty theatre technician. His sets and lighting work on recent productions, such as Working; showed versatility and imagination. His work on ltebel, as playwright and director, was somewhat of a let down. In most productions it is usually . simplf:! to deternline whether the · fault of a production lie~ in the material. or the interpretation of it. In this case it was even easier, because they were. equally culpable. The material for this work is valid enough; Ei.nnla Goldm.an, fam- ous anarchist. There are several ways in which to handle this. subject. The playwright may try to present her life as a sort of \docu-drama\, by capitalizing on the important or controversial events of her life. He also has the choice to present it as a narrative.history in theatriCal form. Let us also ., not forget that . it may be presented allegorically, with Goldman's life serving to \lllrtr;:Iy some great truth. about the human~ condition. It seems to me. that ·Bel.linati had s.om~ difficulty in making this distinction. The play was written fn. a style the author calls \Brechtian\. As presented, it was simply disjointed. . The scenes shift back and forth in time between the various periods ·Of Gold .. man's life, neatly divided into young, middle and old. This is a valid technique when handled well. The major problem in this constant. flux of time was that the audience was ·left in recurring blackouts as well as confusion. Scenes placed side by side . were rarely thematically linked, making the play more disparate. The dialogue was- always adequate and often very good, specifically the last two scenes of the play. The deathbed scene between' Emma and a hem- morraging new mother was imbued with pathOs and was quite moving. Emma's final speech, in the last scene, after her sentencing, was the best in the .play.. It was logical and convincing in its contempt for the American justice system, as experienced by this anarchist. In its encapsuled form;. it was a piece of great truth within this conglomeration of theatrics. HOW'S YOUR PERSONAL LIBRARY? Did you know there's a second\hand book shop only one block. from campus? Our stock of thousands of out-of-print volumes, entirely free of textbooks and paperbacks, is fre_quented by both students and professors who are building. libraries. We're open every afternoon:r and welCome browsers.· ' Somers B.ookshop . · · 841 Union Street (across Gillespie) In the technical aspectg-;.sets,, light and sound .... simpl~city and--- achiev-ement reigned. The sparse set made interesting use of the tiny Nott Memorial facility. It .created ample playing grQund for the actors. The lighting. effects were rather good, e:~tcept for those agonizing periods between scenes when the audience was left in the da.rk. Something mu~t be said of the extensive use· of projections in the piece. The idea· ts rather effective ..- in terms of reproducing a feeUng . of historical authenticity. The graphics used, . however, seemed anachronistic:· Neon script in -turn-o£-the-century America? The only problems with the technicaJ..aspects of the show were not in their creativity or germination, .hut rather in their synchronization. Despite s.ome lackluster performances, the ·cast -was basically good. The few really top-notch perfol'rtlances were what saved the evening from apathy and boredom. As middle-aged Emma, Carol King was outstanding. She saturated her character ·with an \ugly duckling\ sensuality that gave it life. Her portrayal of a strong- Willed, strongpminded woman was all of those things: Strong~ willed, strong-minded and always womanly. As Young Emma, Lora Nelson was taunting, stubborn and highly likeable. Ken Altman, as Emma's lover and accomplice, Alexander Berkman, and Tom Rice as John Most were polished and. effective. Aside from King's portrayal of Emma, the other stand-out performance was given by Jodi Cohen as Tanya, a co-worker. In her deathbed scene, mentioned earlier as the most moving in the play, Cohen, while .immobile and agonized between bloody sheets, forced the audience to sympathize with this dying woman and feel pity for her impending separation from her newborn child. In these scene King, too, was at her emotional best. Other members of the cast included: Oani Raphael, Scott Bloom, Mitch Betnstien, Steve Lieb, Mark Wasserman, Rob Quish, Alan White, Chris · Gaynor, Kevin Watkins and Ro~rt Sharlet. Captain James Court, your Marine Corps Representative will be on campus· for interviews ; Jan. 17th thru 20th, ·.10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at Carnegie Hall. For more information call toll-free 1-800-342-2408 'C ·c: 10 ~ u Ill .!!! iii c Ill 'i: al ~ 0 0 ..c:: a. As both' director and playwright, Beninati was too close to his work to recognize its flaws and . cover them adequately. Much of the action seemed unmotivated due to the disjointed nature of the piece as well as some unenthusiastic individual performances. It was never determined whether the audience w~s simply to learn history from watching this, or was to learn some lesson about the meaning of anarchism or the lnjustices of the American system. None of these were ever fully achieved. Ken Altman, Scott Bloom, Carol· King and Lora Nelson in rehearsal . Tka~+r.a .·:,::~:·~~:~~::~. The Cultural .Horizon By GLENNS. KRUT()FF Art:; Editot Welcome back to Union. Now that winter--minus snow--is upon us, everyone · will soon become restless for things to do. Luckily, the cilltural · horizon looks . promising. Here are a sampling of things worth cat- ching! Poet and editor Sydney Lea will give a talk a.nd will read from his work in the second floor lounge of the Humanities Building on _Thursday January 13th. Mr. Lea, an editor of the New England Review, is the author of two collectipns of poetry, Searching the Drowned, Man (1980) and The Flpating Candles (1982).. His poems hav.,.e appeared in Antaeus, The New Republic, The New Y~rker, and many other journals. Mr. Lea will speak on the contemporary LiHie · Vin·nie' s P .• • . 1zzeraa lyric at 3: 30 and will read his poetry aJ8:00. Both are free and open to the public. The visit is sponsored by the English Department and The Idol. Here are two names that should be familiar to most rea~ers: . Connie Stevens and \I'm Getting My Act Together and Taking it on the Road\. The long-running Off-Broadway Cryer and Ford musical is coming to Proctor's this month. Due to sudden rescheduling, there are still good seats available for January 25th and 26th. According to recent reports, Miss Stevens has been selling out around the country. Good news for Gilbert and Sullivan fans. This weekend, Proctor's will feature two G&S classics: \The Pirates of Penzance\ Friday January 14th and \H.M.S. Pinafore'', Saturday, the 15th. Free deUvery for college 8-1'2-24 Cut Pizzas· S_pecia 1 pri·ce on party orders Just ask for Vinnie ~!. --'~, - .. , Follow the. Lead.ers· ..• And ledt'n.~H:owTo Lead .. .. ',) : ~ ,,.., \. ' . . . . - ,, . ....• Also at Proctor's; this Sunday evening (1-16) Patrice Munsel, B'way veteran, Will star in the musical ''Tintypes\. The show was nominated for a 1981 Tony award for Best Musical, but lost to \42nd Street\. In their newly renovated gallery space, the Union Arts Department is now hosting a photography exhibit by Union student Bonnie Rosenberg. The exhibit, entitled \Gestures\, will run through February 4th. Watch for the announcement of the cast for Thorton Wilder's American classic, ''Our Town\. The play, presented by the Arts Department, will be directed by Professor Barry Smith. Also of special interest is. \A Doonesbury Special\ playing at the Eighth Step Coffee House at 362 State Street. This animated version of Gary Trudeau's comic strip captures the spirit of Walden Community and its inhabitants with distinctive characterization and sophisticated humor. Zonker Harris forces his friends to face up to shifting values and the end of the activist ;60's era. You can catch this specia~ next Thur- sday, January 20th. ... And don't forget about our own Cofi:eehouse, this Friday January 14th-Mark Rust is back. .. '·

- aning which song .sofa .s in- was ~ any being 1erra, was and , un- also the the on of it and per- a of a I .I ' I • ' I I I I J t .. ii OONOORDIJ!JNSIS, January 13, 1983 Page 11 -== THE ARTS ~ A Look Back: Rehel Left • Ill the Dark By GLENNS. KRUTOFF Arts Editor Mountebanks started the theatrical season with their original production of Rebel. The production marks the first time, in recent history,. that a new work had its ,premier at Union, directed by the playwright himself. Daro Beninati has a fine reputation at Union and around the Capital District as an estraordinary theatre technician. His sets and light·ing work on recent productions, such as Working, showed versatility and imagination. His work on Rebel, as playwright and director, was somewhat of a let down. In most productions it is usually simple to determine whether the fault of a production lies in the material or the interpretation of it. In this case it was even easier, because they were equally culpable. The material for this work is valid enough; Emma Goldman, fam- ous anarchist. There are several ways in which to handle this subject. The playwright may try to present her life as a sort of \docu-drama\, by capitalizing on the important or controversial events of her life. He also has the choice to present it as a narrative history in theatrical form. Let us also - not forget that it may be presented allegorically, with Goldman's life serving to \)Grtray some great truth about the human condition. It seems to me that -Beninati had some difficulty in making this distinction. The play was written in a style the author calls \Brechtian\. As presented, it was simply disjointed. The scenes shift hack and forth in time between the various periods of Gold- man's life, neatly divided into young, middle and old. This is a valid technique when handled well. The major problem in this constant flux of time was that the audience was left in recurring blackouts as well as con,fusion. Scenes placed side by side were rarely thematically linked, making the play more disparate. The dialogue was always adequate and often very good, specifically the last two scenes of the play. The deathbed scene between Emma and a hern- morraging new mother was imbued with pathos and was quite moving. Emma's final speech, in the last scene, after her sentencing, was the best in the play. It was logical and convincing in its contempt for the American justice system, as experienced by this anarchist. In its encapsuled form, it was a piece of great truth within this conglomeration of theatrics. HOW'S YOUR PERSONAL LIBRARY? I Did you know there's a second-hand book shop on I y one block from campus? Our stock of thousands of out-of-print volumes, entirely free of textbooks and paperbacks, is frequented by both students and professors who are building libraries. We're open every afternoon, and welcome browsers . Somers Bookshop 841 Union Street <across Gillespie) In t:he technical aspects-sets, light and sound-.simplicity and. achievement reigned. The sparse set made interesting use of the tiny Nott Memorial facility. It crea·ted ample playing ground for the act(i)rs. The lighting effects were rather good, except for those agonizing periods between scenes when the audience was left in the dark. Something must be said of the extensive use of projections in the piece. The idea is rather effective in terms of reproducing a feeling of historical authenticity. The graphics used, however, 'Seemed anachronistic: Neon script in turn-of-the-century America? The only problems with the technical aspects of the show were not in their creativity or germination, but rather in their synchronization. Despite some lackluster performances, the cast was basically good. The few really top-notch performances were what saved the evening from apathy and boredom. As middle-aged Emma, Carol King was outstanding. She saturated her character with an \ugly duckling\ sensuality that gave it life. Her portrayal of a strong- willed, strong-minded woman was all of those things: Strong- willed, strong-minded and always womanly. As young Emma, Lora Nelson was taunting, stubborn and highly likeable. Ken Altman, as Emrna'.s lover and accomplice, Alexander Berkman, and Tom Rice as John Most were polished and effective. Aside from King's portrayal of Emma, the other stand-out performance was given by Jodi Cohen as Tanya, a co-worker. In her deathbed scene, mentioned earlier as the most moving in the play, Cohen, while immobile and agonized between bloody sheets, forced the audience to sympathize with this dying woman and feel pity for her impending separation from her newborn child. In these scene King, too, was at her emotional best. Other members of the cast included: Dani Raphael, Scott Bloom, Mitch Bernstien, Steve Lieb, Mark Wasserman, Rob Quish, Alan White, Chris Gaynor, Kevin Watkins and Robert Sharlet. Captain James Court, your Marine Corps Representative will be on campus for interviews • Jan. 17th thru 20th, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at Carnegie Hall. For more information call toll-free 1-800-342-2408 Ken Altman, Scott Bloom, Carol King and Lora Nelson in rehearsal As both director and playwright, Beninati was too close to his work to recognize its flaws and cover them adequately. Much of the action seemed unmotivated due to the disjointed nature of the piece as well as some unenthusiastic individual performances. It was never determined whether the audience was simply to learn history from watching this, or was to learn some lesson about the meaning of anarchism or the injustices of the American system. None of these were ever fully achieved. Theatre The Cultural Horizon By GLENNS. KRUTOFF Arts Editor Welcome back to Union. Now that winter--minus snow--rs upon us, everyone will soon become restless for things to do. Luckily, the cultural horizon looks promising. Here are a sampling of things worth cat- ching: Poet and editor Sydney Lea will give a talk ~nd will read from his work in the second floor lounge of the Humanities Building on Thursday January 13th. Mr. Lea, an editor of the New England Review, is the author of two collections of poetry, Searching the Drowned Man (1980) and The Floating Candles ( 1982). His poems hav.e appeared in Antaeus, The New Republic, The New Yorker, and many other journals. Mr. Lea will speak on the contemporary Little Vinnie's Pizzeria lyric at 3: 30 and will read his poetry a_t8:00. Both are free and open to the public. The visit is sponsored by the English Department and The Idol. Here are two names that should be familiar to most readers: Connie Stevens and \I'm Getting My Act Together and Taking it on the Road\. The long-running Off-Broadway Cryer and Ford musical is corning to Proctor's this month. Due to sudden rescheduling, there are still good seats available for January 25th and 26th. According to recent reports, Miss Stevens has been selling out around the country. Good news for Gilbert and Sullivan fans. This weekend, Proctor's will feature two G&s classics: \The Pirates of Penzance\ Friday January 14th and \H.M.S. Pinafore\ Saturday, the 15th. Free delivery for co liege 8-12-24 Cut Pizzas Special price on party orders Just ask for Vinnie Follow the Leaders ... And learn How To lead. Also at Procter's, this Sunday evening (1-16) Patrice Munsel, B'way veteran, will star in the musical \Tintypes\. The show was nominated for a 1981 Tony award for Best Musical, but lost to \42nd Street\. In their newly renovated gallery space, the Union Arts Department is now hosting a photography exhibit by Union student Bonnie Rosenberg. The exhibit, entitled \Gestures\, will run through February 4th. Watch for the announcement of the cast for Thorton Wilder's American classic, \Our Town\. The play, presented by the Arts Department, will be directed by Professor Barry Smith. Also of special interest is \A Doonesbury Special\ playing at the Eighth Step Coffee House at 362 State Street. This animated version of Gary Trudeau's comic strip captures the spirit of Walden Community and its inhabitants with distinctive characterization and sophisticated humor. Zonker Harris forces his friends to face up to shifting values and the end of the activist '60's era. You can catch this special next Thur- sday, January 20th. ... And don't forget about our own Coffeehouse, this Friday January 14th-Mark Rust is back.

Pa,ge 12 OONOORDIENSlS, January 13, 19_83 CAMPUS NEWS INTERNSHIPS For information on Intern~ shlps, con1aet the Career Center. New York CJity Urban Fellows Program-•College seniors, recent graduates, and graduate students--highly competitive program involving work in New York City government full-time Se.ptember-.J1,me. FeUows participate in: seminars which focus on public sector fiscal and management iss11es and which serve as an introduction to public administratiop theory. Stipend plus benefits. Deadline: March 15. New Yo.-k City Management Intern Progr·am--College juniors, seniors., and recent graduates--w()rk in city government full-time mid-June until mid·A11gust; Applicants must have permanent home address in one of the five boroughs. Stipend. Deadline: March 1. Metropolitan Museum of Art- Summer internship for juniors and seni()rs. Work at Visotors Center, give t()urs and gallery talks, participate in project. Must have strong background in Art History and an interest in the humanities and museum education. Honorarium. Deadline: March 1 .. Wediko Summer Progl'Bni-a service for emotionally disturbed children, is seeking applicants for summer em- ployment and practicwn ex- perience. Devereaux Foundation Institute of CUnlcal Training and Researoh-undergraduates, graduating .seniors, and recent graduates-full-time pre-pro- . fessional mental health traineeships and short-term externships providing training and experience with mentally and emotionally handicapped children, youth, and young adults. Operation Crossroads Africa, Inc.-student voluhteer work- study projects in Africa during the summer. Work involves community based development projects in construction, agriculture, anthropology, and medicine. Deadline: Feb. 15. Capitol Hlll Improvement Corp.-not-for-profit neighbo- rhood housing, planning, and design service. Past internships - have focused on areas such as sociology, urban planning, historic preservation, public administration, drafting. Historic Deerfield Summer Fellowships in Early American History and the Decorative Arts-open to undergraduates With two or more years of college who are interested in museum work, historic preservation and American culture. Deadline: February 15. Science Teaching Internship- Miss Porter's School, an in- dependent boarding and day school. Applicants must have undergraduate degree by June 1983 and have strong background in at least two of thefollowing fieldS: chemistry, . geology, biology, physics. Stipend, room and board in- cluded. Baltimore Museum of Art- summer internship for sophomores .and juniors who are interested in a career in museum work. Deadline: March 15. The Gallatin Division of New York University .is seeking applicants-for the Oscar Dystel Graduate Fellowship in publishing. The two year master's fellowship is organized around a twelve- week internship at Bantam Books. Students interested in the fellowship should inqUire and apply through the Gallatin Division, New York University, New York, NY 10003 (212) 598- 71117. Applications are now being accepted for the 1983 pre-career practicum in mental health offered for the 13th summer by the New York HospjtaJ-cornell Medical Center, Westchester Division. The eight-week program which begins June 13 is open to college student~ and combines structured, staff- supervised patient assignments with professionally conducted seminars and lectures. Interested applicants are asked to contact_ Ann Eisner, Director, Volunteer Depart- ment, The New York Ho~pital­ Cornell Medical Center, Westchester Division, 21 Bloomingdale Road, White Plains, New York 10605, (914) 997)5780. SPEAKERS The Union College Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa will be hosting Helen F. Mulvey, professor of history at Connecticut College. Prof. Mulvey will be par- ticipating in a student-faculty seminar, \England and Ireland: An Ambivalent Relationship,\ in Straus& Lounge today at 2:30 and will also give a public lecture, \The· Two Irelands, North and South: 1921-1980,\ this evening at 8 FIJ-I'S ' Annual 24-Hour Basketball Marathon for MDA Begins Friday, Jan. 14 1 :00 p.m. A:lumni Gym Support this worthy ttlusel . I p.m. in SS016. Everyone is welcome. A teception will follow in the Social Sciences. faculty lounge. Prof. William Jt)hnson of the Maxwell School, \Syracuse University, will he speaking on \Compensation for Death from Asbestos,\ Thurs .. , Jan. 13, 3:45 p.m. in Rnom 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. This will be a discussion of the first empirical study of the losses incurred by workers .and their families due to exposure to asbestos in the workplace. An evaluation of the adequacy and equify of com- pensation for these losses will also be presented. TERMS ABROAD Last chance t~J apply for a spring Union Term Abroad, 1983. The term abroad will take place in Schwabisch-Hall, Germany. In order to par- ticipate, students must have a prerequisite in Gerrn~n 10 or ·133. The course of study in- cludes a study of German language and a course in German art and architecture. There are a few field trips planned to places of interest in the area. Professor Kellenter will be the resident director for the term. This program is open to all students at the college, regardless of major. If you are interested, you mllSt act now, as arrangements for the term are already underway. HELP WANTED filing: March 1, 1983. Tbe Amerl~an Consulting Engineers Cou~;~.cil (ACEC) anneunces ~· $4000 Fellowship Program (plus tuition and fees) for applicants who have a civU engineering qndergraduate major and plan to study to ·become consulting engineers in the applied earth sciences. Application is made. directly to ACEC. :Please see the Financial Aid Office for .further in• formation. Application deadline is March 15, 1983. The Armenian Students Associatiou offers grants and interest-free loans to students of Armenian descent. Criteria for selection include financial need, character, and self-assistance. Applications;for grants must be made before Aprill. Loans may be applied for at any time. Contact the Financial Aid Office for further inforrrration. Law School Scholarships: Western State University in San Diego and Orange Co., CA. offers 10 full-tuition merit scholarships. Financial need is not a criteria. In additi()n, 20 . partial tuition scholarships are awarded. Selected on the basis of grades .and LSAT scores, applicants. should apply im· . mediately. Further information is available in the Financial Aid Office or by calling. Western State University at: (714) 738- 1000 and requesting a \President Scholars\ ap- plication form. The National Italian .American Foundation (NIAF) is offering graduate fellowships r to Americans of Italian heritage majoring in government, .political science,. public and-or international affaks. The fellowship is a three month internship with a Congressional Committee in Washington, D.c. Stipends. are $2100 ($700 each month).. For further in. formation, call (202} 293:..1713 or write to: NIAF, Graduate Legislative Fellowship Program, 1019'19thSt.,NW No. 800, Washington, DC 20036. Deadline for applications is MarCh'--15, 1983. The Natlonal Italian American Foundation (NIAF) offers three under.graduate scholarships: 1. Ueneral ($250-$75()-yr.) 2. Cominunications Majors ($1000) 3. Americo DiPietro Memorial :Prize ($250) All students of Itali~n descent are encouraged to make ·ap- plication. Further details are available, in the Financial Aid Office. DeadlineS are early March. CLUB.NEWS Ski Team--aU those interested in skiing this year must contact Brian at 372..0172. Women's Support Gl'OUp-· Orgamizational meeting, Mon., Jan. 17, 1983, 4:30 p.m.-- Carnegie Hall Banquet Room. The group is open to all College women, including students, faculty, fa-cUlty wives, .staff and aqminis.tration. For further information contact D. Gray, 370-6254. Furniture store needs strong help to do work pertaining to furnitur.e store, delivering, window cleaning, moving furniture,· etc. Also someone who can drive van. Please contact 374-7785. ADMINISTRATIVE AND ENGIN~ERIN(; SYSTEMS CO~LOQUIUM ''Compensation for Death I from Asbestos\ SCHOLARSHIPS WILLIAM JOHNSON New Jersey Residents: Plan to attend graduate school in New Jersey? Garden State Graduate Fellowships are available. Applications are available in the Financial Aid Office. Awards are $4000 -per year, and determined by GPA, GRE scores and recom- mendations. Deadline date .for Professor of Economics and Senior Research .. , Associate of Health Studies Program · Maxwell School Syracuse University Jan. 13. 3:45\'5:00 p.m. in Balley Hall UNION COLLEGE FILM COMMinEE 1983 WINTER S.CHEDUlE WEEKENDS:· 1-14-1-16 Fame ' 1-21-1-23 Poltergeist 1-28-1-30 Monty Python and the Ho.ly Grail 2-4-2-6 The Wall 2-11-2-13 Das Boot 2-18-2-20 Star Trek 11-The Wrath of Khart 2-25--2·27 Raiders .of the Lost Ark 3-4-3·6 Fast Times At Ridgemont High TUESDAYS: 1-18 The African Queen 1-25 NO MOVIE . Thursday l-27 Bedtime for Bonzo 2-1 Fist of .Fear,\Touch of Death (Broce Lee} 2-8 Love Story 2-15 Deathtrap 2-22 Bad Girls CX) 3·1 Diamonds Are Forever 3-8 Midnight Cowwboy· ALL MOVIES ARE $1 I I SCIENCE MAJORS Interested in medical research? Applications to Ph.D. programs in Anatomy, Biochemistry, Microbiology, Phar- macology a,nd Phys'iology are now being accepted. Assistantships available. For more information contact: COLLEGE OF GRADUATE STUDIES S.U.N.Y. Upstate Medical Center Syracuse, New York 13-210 An .Affirmative Action- Equal Opportun ltY Institution - .. ... -- - (p Cl:l Bl PI WI til pE in s~ bE cc H Cc in St T1 p. th 19 a in u $2 tr di dl ac D Tl i: C< d• 'SC / p( c~ (I r A w G

tage ent, The onal ~ach in. or hip NQ. is ian AF) jors ~tro ~ent ·a p- are Aid ~p-­ ege y, d y / OONOORDIENSIS, January 1:1, 1983 Page 13 'I - MISCELLANEOUS LOST;.,.ijprn-rimmed g~asses (possibly at C~ Psi). Plea~e call382-7650, Krts Frantz or Jtll Brice. Tbe Fr:tendly Visitor prQgram is looking for men a~d women to share a~ hour of thetr tbne each Week w1tb an elderly persen wh? is homebo'¥ld .. By sharmg your skill~ and interests, you . may fm~ a special friendsh~p develQpi,D~. H you are mterested m becoming a Friendly Visitor, contact J ody Weiner at the Human Services ~tanning Council of .Schenectady CQunty in the .Proctors Ar~ade,. 432 State Street, Room 220 on Tuesdays 9-5 and Thursdays, 3-'5 p.m. HSPC is.funded, in part, by the United Way. , · Spring Break,. Marcb 18·27, 1983-Here is your chance to get a tan! Spend 7 days and 7 nights in Ft. Lauderdale _with other Union College students for only $250.00. Price includes _ ro~d trip express transportation direct .from Union College on a deluxe motorcoach and\7 nights accommodations at the new Days Inn (aU taxes included). Ther Gymnastics Clat~ses for Children: Grils--.grades K-6, boys grades K-3. Nine weeks- Thursdays, 6:30-7:30 p.m: beginning Jan. 13th. Al1:JI11nl Gym. Events to include+ tumbling, bars, balance beam, vaulting. Registration and fee settled first class .. Call Karen WYtrw:al at 374:-6693, Boll'. 1453. Twq apartments on Avenue B with utilities;.,.$270 per month. Call 465·1488 or 372-1132. PERSONALS I am a VERY lonely boy at U.C. and I REALLY >like pleasing pleasingly :pl u~p women. If you are good I will · give you a picture of myself on a soccer field witll me on one knee arid a soccer ball in front. Call me PLEASE!.! Paul (Madness) Reiss 6711. Boy, I srire could use2 6~packs .of Molson. I wish someone owed me some. Someene from 00. Someone with a roomy named Lo. Someone named Jo. DB's of UC? Is tha't what we said? What's a t>B? You'll never know! great bunch of friends, a Happy New Year and get psyched it's 83.! Lis, Shar, Bethie - maybe it's our year. Maybe it'll be everybody's weekend! Love ya, Kath. The Lounge Club didn't celebrate New Years at the New Yorker Lounge. Members were present. but not accounted for. Watch for more 1983 news of things that won't happen. Warmth, Stars, balance anq mostly you-L, Bandanana bear Paul Herp and 10-(), now you · have to watch the things you do in front of your window, you never know who might be gazing from the other side. Good luck at your party on Sat. I hope you both find at least one of ·the positions I watched on Mon. Drek, the voyeur. Hobit, no matter what hap- pens I still love you. Thank you for being worried about me over vacation. ME ! Hey Tink, r won't get into whips, chains and getting bit. If you won't get into trouble, dazed states or bed with girls 'with NO alibi. One.of 1lS will lose and you KNOW who it ain't. Never been hit on, bit on or sh-- never mind. CAMPUS NEWS Hey Eros, it's good to be back. Let's make this a term to remember. No mistakes, NO dwnps, and NO 34 yr. olds. T, D, & N shall make it. N Laura and Jimm·y-- Congratulations. Love, The Only Big Hous~. T.o the best big sister and friend; Beth. I love you. Thanks for everything .. Patti. Adam--it's still true, you arrogant fooL At least you'll be leaving in seven Tuesdays and I'U be stuck reading ether people's personals. (what a gur, what a guy). Love, a groupie (one of the many) Dan-o-Has Frank called you lately? Please let me know when he does! Love, a fellow Nugget lover. Bob You're number 'one in the house, but also number one in our hearts (that beats anyone else I know). llove you. What's this I hear about unnecessary meetings of the All·Nighter Queens? I thought it was a solely academic club! Nice joke. To the 1982 Football Team: Congratulations on a great season! The \Man in the Cage\ brought me up to date over the holidays. Good work ... I ~ew you could do it! I onl~ WISh I could've been part of tt-Love always from Long Beach, CA Bo--Great seeing you again. Another ''Slumber Party'' next year, same time s~e place? Or will you be back m Europe, managing your very own Friendly's!? Good luck on your thesis! Love, Karen. Cheri Don't worry ... that still wo~'t stop me from calling you! I miss you lots. Let's bave a schnapps and hot chocolate party really. soon, OK? I love ya, Kid! Y.F. Ex. Marcy and R;oberta-''Don't drink what do you do?\ Thanx for all of the $1 bills! I miss you. Love always, Shaun. Jodes-Meet you at the weight watchers convention during spring break. Love ya, Foxy. SDT Sisters--Have your teeth turned green yet? I hear they are having a special on tooth- es in the bookstore!-·-·- Marc, have any car trouble lately? I think you should get a chauffeur for spring break! Luv ya, Bethy D is room for 48 people on a first come, first served basi~. A deposit of $50.00 must be rn as ·soon as possible to secure-y?ur position. For more information call: Steve Brown: .370-6732 (rm. 363 Fox).. ' - CLASSIFIED Hey DB's of UC (TPL, PH, FF, VW & G), yes folks, some of us have new names. It's great to· be back! I missed all <Jf you,. Let's try and have a great term! MAY. ' Hey Nat, what's new in your soap opera life. I'll stop by to 'see sometime. Norm. Cat, it's been awhile. I miss Wanted: Roommate for you. Let's get together soon and h~ve some champagne .. D. recently remodelled Stockade Apt., starting Dec. 1. 7 min. To my favorite bunch of walk to Union, $75-month. Call Housies-Welcome home! To a Due to the lack of space, we will only be able to accept the FIRST 100 PERSONALS submitted. ALL person·~ls must b~ in by Tuesday evening at 7:00p.m. Greg,~u~·~~u~~-----------------------------------------------------------~------------~----------------------~ Hon, We4. \led, Hon. lied, Wee!. Wtd. Han. Wad. Tu.-.. . . ' CAREER WORKSHOPS -Winter .83 Il!PORT.UT NOTES PLEASE SIGII UP FOR ALL IIOIU(SHOPS IN ADVAliCE AT THE CARtEl C&NTEil (aolioe are open to I limited nullber OAlJ• / -~ . Th• Jllau• Writin&.an~ jaeic Jntervievinc Teehniquu ·llorkahopa liated abo~e will be tho only auoh vorbhopa acheduled for Wintn Tora. Student• who vill be intervie•nng for job• in t • Jli:ntor or wo viah to ~av« thoh: reau•• crit-iqued (r<>ll&h draft·~ be typed) .by • Caren Center ataff •IIIIer MUST. attend the workshop• firaa:. ~untyped ~.will be critiqued, Jan. 17 ADVAIIC!D INTERVIEWING 'I:ECHNIQDES • 7:00 pa Career Center Thia seaoion will provide en opportunity to iaprove interviewing rechniquaa through p'ractice vith ptofea.aionall· fro•- bu•lne•• and -indu•try. Active participation il expected. .(Participa.nta lllat have attended the Jaaic lntnviewing Technique• ll<>rkahop,) ADDITION TO CAREER WORKSHOP. SCHEOO\.E SECOND lftTERViEWS: THE SITE VISIT Jan11ary JS . ------- 7:00 jJlll Conf. Rolli!) A (Pleue sign UJ! tn •dvance _at the Career Center) After an on•CIJIIPUS/sereenlng Interview, .tlat's next! How much prepiratlon Is required for an all·day c~any vtstt? Learn_ the expecuttons of the site· v'lsl~ frotri t.lvel .arrangements to follow- up activities. llQn't nilss this one time presentation! Jan. 19 • SUM!£8 JOI SIWICH STRATEGIES Jan. 19 ADVANCED INTERVIEWING 'l'ECHNIQUES See de•eliption above. Jan. 24 o\L'IlRHAT!VE JOI S!ARCH STRAT!Gl!S . · • - ltoc:O-nded for J~nioro aild Seniora !'Ito vlll be aeekina fuH-dlll! •IIPioy .. nt after graduaclpn, Deaignad priurilJ' lor,_ but pi>,t Halted to, tho Liberal Arto atudenc. Thia eaaaion deala vith how to plan ahd carry out •• effe~tiv• job search caapaisn; how to oeek •\'''loy•nt other than through on\.ca!lplii recN[~ins; how t~ idontHy and uoo the hidden job utket i:o your advant&ie; hov to eaublioh pr!'feanon•l contacto. JAn. 26 CAR.EER IHFOIIK\TIQN I'QR UNDERCLASSMEN S•• dt•erip~ion •b~ve. Jan, 26 I EVALUATING A POTENTIAL EMPLOYER Are you worried ab011t aakin& the r.iabt j9b ~hoicd Your frienda to<>? co,.. to· a . alide proaentnion .Uacuuin& topieo of i-rtaoca to the j~b-ltekn in ~ .. ling w1th and ••aluatin1 a potential aaployer, Aaon& theai HOV to d1acuaa y~r f1old of lntn .. t vith· a COIIPiny. Will you~ cjllalifieationa oe•h with co~paoy requlra .. nto? Doeo tho C:OIIP>nY have planned career develop .. nt ptog;rau? co,.., learn. the •rt of. profe .. ional decition·•kln; •• It rolatu to your job choice·~ J 31 llfi'IRIISHIPS . an. Learn walt m lfttnnahip Ia, hov it: cu h.tp JOU cllrifr J'OUlr: cuau goala tbrouah •~parlance, and hov to idsntify ond. applJ to lnternabip p~oara ... ,.~. 2 .reb. 3 IIITZMSHIPS . Sot cloacriptioli abava, DOSS ·roa SUCCISS--IIpclillaoted by il .... er1en . • 1 J.eam ~o- •ffitctlYelJ' .P\•\\\' rauraelf to~•IIPlo:yor• aod th• \v<~rld of vork. Don t •i•• thla elid• preaefttatlon daelcn•d for ~oth .-n and vo .. n, plu• the <>pportunity to h•va your queaeione aaaw•red· fro• ••perti in tho retail huain•••· CARIU DlfOJMA.tJOij. rol. UIIDilCLASSIIII Sao doecr:l.ptf.011 1hova, Polo, 10 SUUS liJIIITIJit,\tl<* . . SeU-aaa•aa..,;nt varbbop duipd pri .. ril)' for., but not liaitd to, the Liberet Arte nud .. t. include• ldentiflcatiOI\ of ~cran•f•rablt. skill•,\ work ond lift ¥aiuea. 1hio l• tho tirtt •top ln anr effective job aoarc:h. If you aro not aure \\\' JOil •r• aoco~ at, thh li for J'OUI Feb , lS CAUIR/LIPI rtAJIMINC Take an active role in foniinJ ~oilr 1\.iture. Thil .... ton io dllis~>•d to lncreaae aiud<iiUo' kalov.ladao and 0 varonaao of tho hov, wat; whore and llhan .o~ caron/life a2plor•t!.11t1. Feb , U CAUil J.ioiHATICII toa UIIDIICLASSJ!EII S•• d•acriptiOI\ abova, liar. 9 CAlliE II lHn!lHATlCII, toR QHDiilCLASSN!II Sei· duicriptlot~ .bova, 3:30pm Career Center 7 : 00 P• Coree r · Center J:JO pa Career Center career Center l::io pri Career Center 6:30 p11 Strauu U1lO pa Cartel' Center. 12~0 P• CaratZr Center 61lO pa 4th Pi. Lna. carlltgie H•ll 12.1-30 P• Caree~ C~n-cer l100 P• c~reel' Center liOo ·P• Caron Center 12130 P• Cal:ecr Conter l21jlO P• Gridder Awards • • • Continued from page 14 Sophgmore center Eric DeMarco (Shelton, CT) was voted to the second team of- fense while sophomore tight end Eich Kellaher (Simsbury, CT) was elected to the third team. Sophomore offensive tackle Steve Cirillo (Johnstown, NY) was as honorable nu~ntion selection. Nominations for the team were made by Sports Infor- mation Directors from Division III schools across the nation with a panel of 15 SIDs on the· voting committee. ANNOUNCING A NEW SUMMER CAREER OPPORTUNITY . . FOR UNION STUDENTS NEW YORK CITY INTERNSHIP PROGRAM Beginning June 13-20, 1983 -Ten-week summer internship or six-month summer-fa II internship -One required .course in Managerial Accounting; addition a I course credit opti ana I -On-site internship coordinator -Housing arrangements in Manhattan optional -Salaried and non-salaried internships TUITION COST: {1 course credit) $811.00 WHO: All liberal arts majors interested in ex- ploring ca~eer possibilities in a busi~es~ or non- profit environment. Preference to 1umors and seniors. APPLICATION FORMS: Available at Wells House, Union College DEADLINE: February 4, 1983 Sample Internships Major network investigat·ive news show Public Relations firm International book publisher Famous-name sportswear manufacturer National headquarters-major retailer New York Stock Exchange Advertising agency Fund-raising office-medical research Bank For further information contact Joan Kreid, 370- 6288 ' ·'· . ' ; )

I • Page 14 SPORTS Bodmer, Oberstadt lead way Numerous Awards for Gridders ~yS.I.D. Sports Staff Bodmer Voted Top Defensive Player By The New England Football Newsletter Senior defensive tackle Steve Bodmer (Westfield, NJ) was voted \Defensive Player of the Year\ recently by the New England Football Newsletter. Bodmer was not the only one from Union to be honored by the newsletter, which covers Division IH football in New York and New England. The Dutchmenteam was selected as \Team of the Year\ while rookie head coach Al .Bagnoli was voted the \Coach of the Year.\ In a vecy close ballot,. Union nosed out Plymouth State for team honors, 68-65. Bodmer and Bagnoli, hQwever, were runaway winners. Bodmer outdistanced Tufts' Tom Duffy and WPI's Joe Phelan, 26-16, while Bagnoli won over Plymouth State's Joe Cottone, 75-55. Union quarterback Dan Stewart (Irwin, PA) finiShed third in the \\Offensive Player of the Year\ race with 21 votes. Amherst's Mark Vendietti won the honor with 26 points while Plymouth State's Joe Dudek had 24 votes. Bodmer, · who finished the year with 78 tacldes, 38 assists, four fumble recoveries and a School record 14¥.! sacks, is still in the running for All-American and All-'ECAC honors. The Dutchmen finished the season with their best record since 1949 with an 8-1 record while the eight wins tied a school mark for most wins in a season set by 1914'a 8-Q-0 team. Honored by Associated Press Three members of Union College's football. team wete named HonoraMe MenUon Little All-Americans by · the· Associated Pre.ss. Defensive tackle Steve Bodmer, safety George Oberstadt (Sandy Hook, CT} and quarterback Dan Stewart were all chosen to the prestigious team. The Little Ali-American squad is _ comprised ·Of NCAA Divisipn II and III players. Stewart, Wl'igbtcapture area football awards Union College~s _ sophomore quarterback Dan Stewart and freshman linebacker Pat Wright were recently honored bY tbe Albany Times-Union, a member of the Hearst Cor- poration. Stewart was selected as the \Player of the Y:ear'' by the local newspaper while Wright captured \Rookie of the Year\ honors. It marks ,the fitst time since.theaward was established that two players from one of the five local colleges have bef;ln selected. Stewart broke the College record for touchdown passes as he threw for 17. OVerall, he completed 112 of 222 passes for 1,527 ·yards with only 10 in- terceptions. He also was Union's second-leading ru8her with 337 yards on 81 carries and four touchdowns. Wright_, a 6'0\ 190-pounder, broke into the starting lineup prior to the second game of the season when three-year starter Tim Williamson came up with a neck injury. Once . the opm portunity presented itself, Wright took. full advantage of it as he had 43 tackles, 25 assists and 5:1h quarterback sacks. \Pat is one of the most out- standing freshman linebackers I've ever seen,\ conimented head coach AI Bagnoli. ObersU.dtt Bodmer selected to ECAC's·U.pstate NY Football AJJ.;star squad Senior safety George Ober- stadt and .senior defensive tackle Steve Bodmer were selected to the Eastern College Athletic Conference's Division III Upstate New York All..Star team. For Oberstadt, a 5'9'',~160- pound'C<)m,puterScience major, it marked the second con- secutive year that. he was voted. to the squad by the 14 Upstate New York coaches. It is the fkst All-'Star award for Bodmer. Oberstadt., who finished the year ranked in the top ro nationally with eight in- terceptions, was the second~ leading tackler for the Dut- chmen with 43 first hits and 39 assists . .He set a College record when he intercepted at least one pass in seven straight games. dating back to the final two contests of 1981 and the first five games of the 1982 campaign. A two-year starter at safety and an overall three-year starter in the defensive backfield, Oberstadt finishes his out .. standing career with 13 in• terceptions. _ He was named to the ECAC's weekly ''Honor Roll'' following the Colby game, a 14-3 Union victory, wh~n he intercepted two passes to go along with five tackles and six assists. Bodmer, who was Umon's leading tackler with 78 first hits, 38 assists, til¥.! quarterback sacks and four fumble recoveries, was named to the ECAC's weekly \Honor Roll\ three times· during the season including the final two weeks of the campaign. Union's Steve Bodmer - named Kodak All-American Union College's s~nior defensive tackle Steve Bodmer Sports Briefs I was named to the Kodak AU· American Team · for College Divisi~>n II class by the · American Football Coaches Association. ByS.I.D. Sports Staff Union's Tamoga Named to All New York State Soccer Team Union College sophomore Istvan Tamoga (Buffalo, NY) was recently named to the All New York State third team soccer squad, it was announced. Tamoga, a graduate of Canisius High School where he was the Most Valuable Player and the team's leading scorer, is a two-year starter at halfback for the Dutchmen. Voted the team's \Outstanding Fresh· man\ in 1981, Tamoga recorded two goals and an assist this season. Union ended the 1982 campaign with a 3-10-2 record. Union's McDougall Gains ECAC \Freshman\ Honor Union College's freshman goalie Wayne McDougall (Guelph, Ont) ·was named \Co- Freshman of the Week\ by the Eastern College Athletic Conference for his outstanding .performance against th~ University of Buffalo on Saturday, December 11. McDougall, a 6'0, 175-pound economic major, recorded 26 saves as the Skating Dutclunen defeated the Bulls, 10-2, in an ECAC Division II hockey game. Buffalo sc:ored both their goals in the final stanza, the first one kicking off a Union defen- ceman's skate and the second one on a five on three power• play. It was the first collegiate win for McDougall, who had lost a 9- 2 decision to Division I Dart- mouth on November 20. \Wayne-did an excellent job,\ conunented head. coach Charlie Morrison. \He made some big saves early in the game and got stronger as the game went on.\ . O'Neill Capjured Second Dukehart Award Senior forward Dan O'Neill (Pembroke, ONT) was awarded the Thomas Van Arden Dukehart Award on Saturday, January 8, in a brief ceremonies prior to the Skating Dutchmen's hockey game against Colgate. The award, which originated during the 197'1-78 ~eason, i~ presented to the hockey player with the highest grade -point average. O'Neill, who won the award as a freshman, is the Q1l].y player to captw·e the prestigious honor twice in his career. The 5'8, 155-pounder has played in all.of Union 11 games this season. He shows seven points on two goals and five assists. O'Neill, who is four• year varsity letterwinner, is · currently in 14th place on Union's all-time~ scoring list with 23 goals, 23 assists and 46 points. Spearheaded by Bodmer, Union's defense fmished the 1982 season with 14 shutout qvarters~ and allowed only 62 points all year long. The 6.9 average enabled the Dutchtnen to rank third nationally .among Division III schools. Union gave up only eight points in the second half during the season and did not allow a point ip the fourth quarter \I am very happy for Steve,\ said head coach AI Bagnoli. \If anyone deserves the honor, Steve certainly does. We are losing only seven seniors off this year's team, but there is no question that replacing Stev~ will be a very· difficult task.\ The College Division II squad represents the best from NCAA DiVision III and NAIA Division II colleges and universities. Twenty-four players were selected to the prestigious team, which encompasses the entire United States--11 on defense, 1l on of.fense, a -placekic}ter and punter. Union places five onSIDAU~American Fo-otball Team ·seniors Steve Bodmer and Goerge Oberstadt led the way with first team selections as Union College placed· five of its players on the 1982, Sports Information Directors' All· American team. Oberstadt, a free safety; was the second-highest vot~getter . . • Basketball · (·6-1) Continued from page 16 · . State's Dan croutier, also put on a fine display as he finished with game-high sco:rfug honors at twenty~four points. . With the score knotted at sbd;y at the end of regulation time,. Albany came out in a box· and~ne defense with Clinton being guarded man-to-man, Things loo.ked bad for the Dutchmen until Joe Wood came through with a ten•foot baseline jumper to tie the\ game- at 64 wtth just four seconds left in the period. In the second overtime period, Dan Cr.outier hit a twenty-foot jump shot for Albany State to tie the game at 68 and send the game into a third period. It was sophomore forward. Ken D'Orazio who came through in the dutch in the firial period, hitting seven points on ·5-6 foul shooting to seal the game for the Dut- chmen. The final score was 79., 74. Senior guard Joe Clinton was named Most Valuable Player of the tournament. Joe showed excellent stamina as /he did not come out of either game. His statistics for the tourney show 36 points, nine assists and two steals. J.unior guard Joe Wood played very impressively and was named to the All- Tournament team. Wood · compiled 33 pQints, eight assists and ~wo steals in the two g.~mes, The tournament title was the first for ten~year head coach Bill Scanlon and only the second overall for the Dutchmen, who have been competfug in the event since 1969. · Following their win over Albany State, the Dutchmen travele.d to Drew University in an attempt to emend their six• game winning streak which has carried over from last season. The two teams played evenly for most of the first half but with 2h 1 minutes left in the half, Drew went on a ten point tear which Union was never able to come back from. Two mb)utes into the second half, Drew scored ten more unanswered points which put the l)utchmen down 51-32. The Garnet desperately fought back on -an eleven point. binge of their own sparked by Ken D'Orazio's nine points. But Union suffered a severe blow when with 7:11 left in the match D'Orazi9 fouled out of the game. After D'Orazio left, Drew built its lead to 16 points and eventually ~nded up on top by 14 with the score 80:.66. Defensive lapses and Union's. on the defensive squad as he- accumulated 140 points. Bod- mer, a defensive tackle from Westfield,- NJ, amassed 110 points while picking up his inability to connect on free throws led to their firsUoss .. The Dutchmen shof:.-jtist 14.28 from the line. _, · . - In December 13, the Dut- chmen re$umed their wlJlning ways _as they defeated Kings ]?oint by a scor.e of 85-70: Union went into half•time up 39•25 due to an eight-point run with three minutes left in the- half. Union took the lead for good at 13:21 on a bucket by Joe Clinton which put the. score at. 14-12. Tbe Dutchmen had no trouble in the second half, maintaining a , large lead throughout. Union's ,offense W;ts really_ in gear as their 85 total point_s clearly derr11mstrates. As opposed to their lO$S to Drew, the Dut- chmen were able to capitalize on free throw opportunities in this contest; conn~cting Jor twenty~five points from the fine. Wood, Clinton, D'Orazio and Bartlett all hit for double figures with 21, 20, 12 and 13, respectively. _ . On· December 18th, Uni<m brought thek3~1 record home to play Elmira. Ken D'Orazio hit U'nion's-first six points as Union never trailed in a clos·e first half. Joe, ·wood and· Kevin Bartlett each . chipped ·in nine points to pace the Garnet in the first half. D'Orazio again op~ned . up the scoring in- the second half to stretch the score to 33-26. But the nine _minutes which followed the 14~00 mark saw. Elmira outscore Union 204 and allowedthem to take a 55-47 lead. But the poised Dutchmen were able to scrap back and outscore their ()pponents 11\2 in the final five minutes to_ give them a 58-57 victory. Joe Wood scored eight of the final eleven points for Union including what proved to be the winning foul shot with just over a mmute to play. ''Woody\ had game high honors with 17 while D'Orazio and Bartlett were also in' double figures. Joe Clinto~ dished out seven , assists while Ken D'Orazio ptilled down eleven rebounds to secure the victory. Jeff Feigelson and. Jim Doherty are playing their respeetive roles welL Feigelson is playing tough defense and pounding the boards while Doherty is dQing the same as well as handing out fiv.e a:;;sists per game. A:s long as_the first siX. players remain injury-free and stay away from foul . trouble, the hoopsters should continue their Winning ways. second All-American honor. Bodmer was named to the Kodak All•American ~am in November. · · Continued on page 13 .?g' The Dutch HolloW Pub ~ Dutch Hollow Pub wm be open for Four seatings- on Saturday night for l)utdtman's Night. 'f!!e seatings i will be 4:30, 5:00, 6:30 and 7:30 p.m. Reservutions for Saturcloy Nights win be taken on Wednesday and Friday caft~moom between the houn· of 1 and 4:30 at the ticket bootk, CanJegle Hall; RUERVATIONS ARE R~QUIRED TO PARTICIPATE! DvtdimQil's Night b available to 19-meal plan holders iwkt a month, and to 14 and 1~.-.1 plan liolcl!n one. a month. Don't Forget! II Make rese~vall~ns Vou don't have to feel left out If eari.y, bring your meal card and I. D. • you're not on a meal plan. We'll and prepare .to enJoy yours~Uifl gladly acrept cash reservatiiJns too. • tel 70• Ml do ga I ga co bo re' Ju an Sh Ll se re st; WI m: sc pu ye wl V; st1 te' PI • Co tr1 Ha tw diE So hi! go Ca be

The due on the ~ a as to ~· in .for ble 13, hit in ~0-4 in to ble ~y. as :~r. in ~ 13 1 CONOORJJIENSIS, January 18, 1988 Page 15 -·sPORTS ' .•. Beat . .Sage ~n Opener Women's HOop Wins· Track In Dartmouth Relays By S. J. BLOOMBERG Sports Staff. The Women's Basketbal'l team started its season with a 70.U3 victory over Russell Sage Monday night as they dominated througb«;)ut the game. The statistics ~or the first game show promise for t~e coming season. The leader m both points and: rebounds was returning center Julie Miller. Julie scored. sevet}teen points and grabbed fifteen rebounds. She was followed by guard Cary Lynch with an impressive seventeen points and seven rebounds. ';rhe performance of starting forward Jacltie Tario was especially sign:ificant after missin.g' last year's season, scoring twelve points. and pulling down three . rebounds. An important asset to this year's team are the freshmen, who, according to coach Lynn Varta, \increase both the strength and flexibility of the team .... Two freshmen starters, Patty Richards, who finished . with ten points and seven rebOlltli:IS, and guard Rebecca Clemente~ who scored six points for the team, show outstanding skill and promise for. the team. Two other freslunen, Suzette Collier and Maureen O'Day, have ~also given strong support to this year's team. Also worth mentioning are :Barb Bailey, who was three for three In Monday's game and senior, Brenda Higick, who has been a consistent player and excellent ball handler for the team. Brenda was also the second leading rebounder last year. In Monday's game, the team as a Whole was . strong of,. fensively . with a fifty-two percent Shooting percentage. FOI,U' players scored in double figures. Coach Lynn V art a and assistant coach Kathy Lochner are looking ahead with con- fidence to a winning season. Union's next game will be this. Thursday evening at 1 :00 in the Field House. They will be facing Hartwick, which ended this past season as a top state team. ' Union College Curling Club Beginning Monday,January 10, 1963, the Union College Cur.ling Club will have regular hours. Stop by during general recreation hours and learn how to curl. Monday--3:.30-5: 30, Genera I recreation; 7:30-9:30 Intra murals Tuesday--3~ 30-5:30 ,General r.ecreation, 7:30-9:30 lntramurals Wednesday--3: 30-5: 30 'Genera I recreation, 7: 30-9: 30 Intra mura Is Thursday--3:30-5:30 General recreation Friday\-3: 30-5:30 General recreation Saturday--3: 00-5:00 General re.creation Sunday--3:00-5:00 General recreation There will be an Open House on January 5, 6 and 7 from 1-5 p.m. We are located in the basement of Achilles Rink. Even if you have no idea what curling is about, come by and have a Molson on tap. We are looking forward to seeing you on the ice. (You dori;t need skates, just dress warm.) ... Hockey Continued from page 16 . track Tuesday n1gbt vs. Hamilton. Attendance for the two games was 1,128 1 vs. Mid- dlebury and 2,706 vs. Colgate. Sophomore Gill Egan marked his return to action with two goals in two games .. The Egan- Caruso-Hodgins line is also becomj.ng the sparkplu:b to the Dutchmen offense, a nice complement to the high-scoring Tod Fobare-Don Beall-Jamie Knight line. Da~ny O'Neill and Brad Nicholson have been doing a .fine job killing penalties, and· Scott Fitzgerald and John MacKenzie have been out- standing as they patrol the blue line. · The President's Commission on The .Status of Women at . Union College Luncheon Colloquium Series Winter Term 1983 Tuesday, January 25 \A Discussion o.f Affirmative Action' 1 Margaret Schadler . Professor of Biology and Union College Affirmative Action Officer and · George Ri.cha.rds Union College Director of Personnel All events will beheld in the Banquet Room, Carne.gie Hall 12:30 p.m. Bring a lunch-··· coffee and tea provided · AHarewelcometoattend By CHIUSSILER competitive field, with a throw Sports Staff of 47'1 '', and Dave Delahunt and Friday tne Union College Dennis Contois who ran 1:59.7 track team made a distant trip and 1 :59.9 respectively in the to participate in a weU known 800, the former having won his meet, the Dartmouth Relays. . heat. Phillip Gist is very close to The team managed to survive qualifying with his 1:09.5 in the RussEbbet's corny jokes on the SOOm. way to Dartmouth and many There were several other fine exce:lled in their individual performances. Jerry Snover events and qualified for the acquired a very impressive 2638 future State Meet by reaching - points in the grueling pen .. certain set standards. tathlon. Bill McRoberts and For the women, Inge Stock- Chrissy O'Donnell both ran very man ran a fantastic 11:00.5 in well in the 1500m with times of the 3000m, placing eighth and 4:17 •. 8 and 4:19 respectively. qualifying for the States. Other Dave Stanlin ran an excellent q.uiilifiers in<~luded Lynwood 500m race, docking a 1:10.3. Wade who finished tenth in the Of special mention is the shot put amongst a highly performance of Jim Mann. A junior Olympic race walker, he wiggled his way to a third place finish with a 6:32.0 in the Invitational Mile Walk. The walk is a tough event that is often underrated. Jinl has been training very hard along with the rest of the team and we wish them the best of luck. This· Saturday Union College will be hosting its first indoor meet at the Field House, starting at noon. Both the men and women will face Hamilton, Hartwick and Williams, with the women also competing against Dartmouth. They would appreciate some Union College spirit. · Athlete of the Week . By DREW HURLEY Sports Staff Athlete of the week honors for the first week of Winter term ~·. Tod Fobare Fall Intramural Point Standings 1. Sigma Chi 565 2. Fijf 333 3. Phi Sigma Kappa 284 4. ZBT 210 5. Beavers 170 6. Theta Delta Chi 161 7. Chi Psi 150 8. Coparts 120 9. Phi Delta Theta 105 10. Psi u 87 bANClNG in the PUB 9-1 Thursday come to the ~ECOR.[)J HOP are shared by Skating Dut- chman Tod Fobare and Joe Wood of _the Union College basketball team. Junior guard Joe Wood was named most v:aluable of the Manhattanvi1le Tournament and was selected as a member of the Eastern College Athletic Conference's weekly 'Uonor Roll' for the second tinle this season. Wood, a 5'11 \ 180-pounds, scored a game high 28 points in Union's opening round 71-62 win over St. Andrews of North Carolina, and had 18 points. as the Dutchmen defeated host Manhattanville, 74-55, for the championship. The two games increased Wood's team-leading scoring average to 19.4 ppg. Head Coach Joe Scanlon commented, \The entire team played extremely well in both games. Joe worked hard and played every minute against St. Andrews. Beating a team of that caliber is a real confidenc~ builder for our young squad.' Wood, an economics major, hails from Herkimer, N.Y. and is a brother at Sigma Chi: Fobare Breaks Record In a ceremony prior to last Saturday's hockey game against Colgate, Tod Fobare was honored as the Skatine: . . . Dutchmen's new all-time leading scorer. President Morr~s presented Fobare with a plaque in front of a near capacity crowd of 2,706. Fobare, a 5'9\ 180 pounder from Saranac Lake, broke Kip Churchhill's four-year record of 132 points during a 10-2 Dut- chmen victory over- Buffalo on December eleventh. Fobare scored five assists which then gave him 135 points with 20 games remaining: \I'm very happy for Tod,\ commented head coach Qharlie Morrison, \He has always been an ex- tremely hard worker and is looked up to by his teammates.\ Saturday night Fobare broke a four game scoring slwnp and exploded for five goals and an assist in Union's 11-9 loss to diVision one power Colgate. Fobare, who going into Tuesday's Hamilton game shows a four-year total of 57 goals and 87 assists for 144 points, is now just three goals short of tying Kip Churchill's goal record of 60. Tod, who has been the Dutchmen's leading scorer for the past two seasons, is currently Unlon's leading scorer with 11 goals and 13 assists for 24 points. Fobare, a managerial economics major,, is a brother at the Chi Psi Lodge . Rock in the New Years at The Rafters in Saratoga January 13th at 10:00 p.m. *NOTE* No one.wUI be .admitted without legal I.D.

'• i' i' ' . . Pag~ 16 OONOORDIENSIS, Jan'Uf),ry 1,3~ 1983 SPORTS Wood M VP , Clinto.n All~tourney team Hoop Captures Tourney ByGEORGE OBERSTADT Sports Staff Coach Bill Scanlon's hoop squad grabbed their second tournament championship of the season bringing home the Manhattanville Tournament trophy this past weekend. The Dutchmen pushed their record to 6-1 with victories over St. Andrews (North Carolina) 71-U2 Friday night and host Manhattanville 74-55 in Saturday's championship. Friday night Union came through with their most im- pressive performance of the season bY beating St. Andrews. The Scarlet Knights entered the game 7 ..() and ranked sixth in Division III. Junior guard Joe- Wood led the way with a career high twenty-eight points, complementing his per- formance with five rebounds, five steals and two assists. Joe Clinton was instrumental in the victory, constantly breaking St. Andrews' defensive pressure with fine ball-handling and passing. The senior guard dropped in fourteen points and dished out eight assists and sophomore forward Kevin Bartlett pitched in with fifteen points of his own. Union controlled the tempo from the opening tip-off and jumped out to an early 22-7 lead. Tenacious defense and the multiplieity of the Union attack kept St. Andrews from putting together any substantial comeback and Union led 35-27 at the half. Joe Wood led the way with nineteen points in the half as the Dutchn)en offense really clicked for the first time this year. Will Peterson, St. Andrews' top scorer at 27.8 an outing {2nd in the nation) came out smoking in the second half, scoring eight points in the first three minutes to push St. Andrews to within 41- 38. Union switched over to a diamond and one at that point with Clinton playing Peterson man-to-man, This tactic proved very successful as the senior captain neutralized Peterson to a mere two points the rest of the game. At 5:48 Union put on a 12- 2 spurt and built a 71-'56 ad- vantage with 2:35 left that all but iced the victory. From the field the Garnet shot a sizzling 66 percent while converting 21 of 26 free throw attempts. Jim Doherty play:ed a key role, dishing off seven assists as well as playing superb defense throughout the contest. Jeff Feigelson and Ken D'Orazio did a great job on the boards grabbing five and six rebounds, respectively, con- tributing to Union's 24-19 rebounding advantage. Saturday afternoon Union brought home the championship with a 74-55 pasting of host Manhattanville College. A letdown was evident after the impressive win the previous night, as Union trailed 13:10 at , 13:43 of the first half. At that point, the Dutchmen went on a 23-6 tear to lead.33-19 at 1:45 a,nd the' upset-minded Valiants were never in the game again, much to the dismay of the partisan crowd of over 1000. SCOREBOARD HOCKEY (3-8-0,) . Elmira 4 Middlebury 3 Colgate 11 Union 85 Union 58 UnioR71 Union 74 BASKETBALL (6-1) Union3 Unioo 2 Union 9 Kings Point 79 Elrrlira 57 St. Andrews 62 Manhattanville 55 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Union 70 Russell Sage63 Cagers Stand 6-1 ByRICKSAPffi Sports Editor The 1982-1983 Union basketball team is off to its best start in recent years. They currently stand at 6-1 and have two tournament championships under their belts. The Dut- chmen opened their season against Western Connecticut in the opening round of the 22nd Annual Capital District Tournament. Opening season jitters were apparent in both teams' play as numerous tur- novers plagued the contest. In the end, Union's fast paced offense outscored Western Connecticut by a score of 60-52. Guards Joe Wood and Joe Clinton led the Dutchmen in scoring with seventeen and fourteen points, respectively. After Albany State sent the Engineers from RPI down to defeat in the other opening round game, the stage was s~t for the clash between Union and arch rival Albany State. Union had not beaten Albany State in their last eight outings but were determined to give coach Bill Scanlon his first Capital District Tournament championship. The Dutclunen team that came out in the championship game was a much more poised team than had played just one night before. In an extremely exciting game it took three overtime periods before the Dutchmen could finally turn out the lights on the Great Danes. A key to the victory was the ability of the Dutchmen to run their fast breaking offense. Led by Jeff Feigelson (13) and Ken D'Orazio (11) the Dutchmen outrebounded the Great Danes 47-31. With the big men dominating the boards, the guards were able to break down the court for easy layups. Joe Clinton had the hot hand throughout the night, shooting elevenfor fifteen from the floor. Clinton's counterpart, Albany Contmued on page 14 Ken P'Orazio led the way - with twenty-one points and seven vebounds making nine of ten field goals and Joe Wood added eighteen points of his own. For· his :Performance Joe Wood was named the tour- nament's Most Valuable Player, while senior Joe Clinton was named to the All~Tourney team. Kevin Bartlett added eight points and seven rebounds while Jim Doherty unselfishly handed out another seven assists. Congratulations to Coach Scanlon, assistant Bob Montana and the Dutchmen Union Co-Capt. Joe Clinton battles Albany's Dan Croutier in hoopers. Keep up the good work Capital Disrrict tournament action earlier this year. guys! Dutchmen Notes S,PO:R TS HAPPEN J NGS Joe Wood has boosted his average to 19A points per game and Joe Clinton is up to 14.5 per outing. Woody was named to the ECAG Div. III Honorable Mention list this week for his performance in the Manhat- tanville Tournament. Clinton needs just seven more points to become Union's fifth 1000..point scorer. Ken D'Orazio is scoring 13.5 points pef game while leading the team in rebounds and Kevin Bartlett averages 10.4 points per game. Var. Hockey Var. Ba,sketball Women's Bask. Swimming l,ndoor Track Janua.ry 13- 20 Jan. 14 Colby Jan. 18RPI Jan. 15 at Rochester Jan. 19 at Middlebury Jan. 15 at N. Adams Jan. 18 Skidmore Jan. 20 Albany St. Jan. 15 at Hobart Jan. 19 at Trinity Jan. 15 Williams Hamilton 8:00 8:00 8:00 7•:30 2:00 7:00 7:00 2:00 4:.00 1:00 .e •• Face Colby Friday Hockey Losing Close Games ByCPSIS Sports Staff The Union College Skating Dutchmen dropped a pair of tough games this past week to extend their losing streak to five games. Thursday night the Middlebury Panthers edged the Dutchmen 3-2 and the Colgate Red Raiders outgunned the Garnet 11-9 on Saturda'}'. Thursday's affair lacked crispness as both teams showed effects of the Christmas layoff. Play in the first period was a bit ragged as Middlebury scored early when a Jim Harrington shot from the blue line bounced off forward Carter Freeman and ended up behind goalkeeper Bart Brooks. Union rallied to tie it at 8: 20 into the period behind freshman Torn Hodgins' first varsity goal. Joe Caruso took a breakout pass from T.J. Ryan, made a good move on the Panther defenseman and ·slipped the puck over to· Hodgins who deposited it behind Middlebury netminder Ken Pucker. Middlebury took the lead again at 13:56 into the period on another deflected shot from the point. At the .buzzer, Union trailed 2•1 despite out- shooting Middlebury 17-9. The second period showed no scoring, as both teams skated better than they had in the first. Union, led by the .line of Tom Hodgins, Joe Caruso and Gill Egan, who was playing hiS first game since having his cast removed for a ruptured tendon in his thumb, buzzed· around the ·Panthers' net. Despite Union's having the edge in play, they were outshot 13-6. Union came out looking for the tying goal but was denied by Middlebury's Pucker, who stymied the Dutchmen offense. Finally, at 13:14, Gill Egan took · a breakout pass between two defensemen and put on a spe¢tacular move when he stopped abruptly to avoid his check; then ··.drew the puck around Pucker, and backhanded the disc into the open net to knot the game at2~2. Union continued to pressure as Tod Fobare was hauled' down after taking a bon Beall pass for another scoring bid. Mid- dlebury called time-out to regroup. A few minutes later Middlebury took advantage of a mental lapse as Union was caught with three forecheckers deep in the Middlebury zone. The Panthers broke out 3 on 2 and scored the game-winner at 18:23 as Marty Wenthe poked a · rebound behind Brooks after , Bart made the original save on Scott Joslin's shot. , The Colgate Red Raiders invaded Achilles Rink Saturday night in what turoed out to be a wide--open, high-scoring affair. Tod Fobare broke out of his scoring slump as he netted five goals and one assist, but it was not enough to lift the scrappy Dutchmen past· Division I Colgate. Fobare started things early, scoring with 24 seconds gone in the first period to give the Dutchmen their first lead, 1- 0. The score after one period was Colgate 3, Fobare 3, as Tod completed the coveted 'hat trick' in the first period. Union bombarded Colgate netter Cooper with 23 shots as Bart Bropks handled eight of eleven shots at the other end. The second period was more of the same as Fobare and Gill Egan both scored to give the Dutchmen a 5-3 lead. Colgate scored at -8:23 before Brad NichQlson netted a Dutqhmen tally at 9:55 to restore 'Union's two-goal lead. Colgate replied with three unanswered goals to take a 7-6 lead into the lockerroom. Colgate outshot 'Union 26-12 as Union's Wayne McDougall made 22 tough saves. , Captain Scott Fitzgerals tied the game at 5:37 of the period before four Colgate goals were too much to overcome, despite Fobare and Caruso adding power play goalS. Freshman John· Merry made 23 saves as the Dutclunen were outshot 27- 14 (64 to 49 over three periods). ICE CHIPS- The two losses dropped Union's record to 3..8.0 overall (2-4.0 in Division II). They are still in the thick of the playoff race but mustget on the Contbiued Oil page 15 Skating Dutchman Jamie Knight (21) looks for loose puck In front of Red Raider: net. Colgate went on to win the high scoring affair 11- ~ . - c ..... P: F' PI ti UJ te hi gl pi th li1 fr vi Sl F tt e1 Sl \' . r rr 3] te PI li D Sl st b: w uJ b: 0 tt 0 Cl i Fl t-: l 0::

- in ~= 00 30 00 00 00 ~= 00 :00 'hat etter Bart more Gill the Brad ~plied to the tied were ding ~man as 27- 3-8-t> II). the 15 ~ ' 0 11· l lege 1877 CXU, No. ·11 York January 20, 1983 -~ ~ ~.:¥ '\~-;:·· ... \ ··t--,~ ' -- MathematiCS- Professor Alan D. Taylor - Taylor to Direct .. Prestigious Sloan Program By DOUG LANDON News Editor The New Liberal Arts Program qf the Afued P. Sloan Foundation has approved a proposal from Union for par- ticipation in its efforts to upgrade students' knowledge in technical areas. The distinctive honor carries with it a $250.,000 grant to be used for im- plementation of the program in the College's curricUlum. Union is one of ten private liberal arts colleges selected from a group of 31 schools in- vited by the organization to submit proposals. The Sloan Foundation, considered one of the nation's most prestig~ous educational research and support· groups, has· perceived \a deficiency in quantitative reasoning, applied mathematics, and technology,\ and set '!lP a program for at- tempting to resolve this ~roblem of , technological h~eracy. Stephen White, Director of Special Projects for Sloan, has written, \The very strongest institutions, assisted by the Foundation, will lead the way In time other& must ultimately follow.'' The project will be executed by College Administration through an appointed advisory committee consisting of David Hannay, Associate Professor of Computer Science; Peter · Heinegg, Associate Professor of English; Dwight . Phaup, ,Chairman of. the Economics Department; and Richard Shanebrook, Professor of Mechanical Engineering. Professor of Mathematics Alan D. Taylor has been appointed by President Morris to serve as Director of the Sloan Program at Qnion. · The two maj~r components. of the project are faculty development and course development, accordi-ng to Taylor, and discussions for preparations in these areas have already begun.. He believes that. Sloan recognizes. Union as an institution \already doing some of these things quite well,\ and wants to upgrade the effort. Ninety-seven percent of the$250,000 will be used in these two categories. . New courses or adaptations of exi$ting ones include four in applied math, four in engineering and two in com- puter science, all of which will be geared toward JP,ajors in Hwnanties and Social Sciences. In addition, an experimental quantitative and technological version of Freshman Precep- torial will b~ implemented on a trial basis. \The hOpe is that such a course could serve as a .foundation that later courses in technological literacy could Cri~e OJI Campus, p. 3 -buj.ld on,\ Taylor said. were poised for the award, . ]f_ac1,Ilty- development op- having engineering in our · . pof,tuni.tJ:es, about many -of _ midst.\ This is an advantage wbi¢~ 'pt()Jessors have already . many of ~he competitors could express~tf. interest, ar~ ·also -. -not beneftt from. completely funded bY. the _ . Scott Muirhead, Dillector of Fotilldation. One workshop for · -- ·(}rants Programs, emphasized the -next JhFee --summers:· ·wm ·.-. that the process by which the further·· educate instructors -of award was obtained is very Freshman Preceptorial and significant. Along with each of allow more factilty members to the invitations to draft a get involved in the program. A proposal offered to the 31 summer computer course for schools last March, came a Humanties and Social Science check for_ $10,000. The money professors will be offered, with was intended to serve as both a the intent for those who take it cost deferrant and an incentive to teach computer courses to participate in the program, related to their own fields. according to Muirhead and F acuity workshops in both D'Andrea. Muirhead . believes engineering and arms control this gesture sent a signal to the and nuclear weapQnry Will be schools that Sloan is completely held in the Boston area for thOse serious about investing capital ' selected to attend. In addition, in the technical literacy the budget provides .for con- program. ferences and travel, as well as Union took the offer seriously, four consultants to the adds Muirhead, and compQsed a program. \This program has lengthy proposal which was \the. potential to really improve later reviewed by consultants our liberal arts curriculum,\ Dean Michael Flusche ·Of coininented Vice President for Syracuse · University, and Academic Affairs Dr. Thoma~ Stevens Institute of.Technology D'Andrea. He believes that Dean Edward Friedman, whom many corporate heads who Muirhead called \especially earned degrees in the social helpful,\ since he has been sciences don't have the involved with Sloan in the past. knowledge they need about At that time, the proposal technQlogy. Seeing the honor as included funding for $110,000 a great opportunity for faculty worth of computer hardware and curriculum, as weU and regional program im· as the recognition to the plementation costs. Shortly College, D'Andrea believes ''We after the proposal was sub- mitted, Sloan Foundation Vice President James D. Koerner called President Morris to in- form him that these items would not' be funded by the grant, and suggested Union propose alternative uses for the money. Taylor, who expects other foundations may even- tually fund the hardware, says this notice gave the proposal committe.e \tremendous leeway;' to further fortify the course and faculty development areas, which is exactly what the committee did. Muirhead points out that the fact that Koerner phoned and asked for the revision signifies the Foun- dation's interest in Union. With 21 other high quality schools on the list, a replacement would have been easy to find. The program will bring about a great deal of interdisciplinary . cohesion at Union, says D'Andrea, who considers the educational policies involved to be the business of the faculty in the various departments. The other nine liberal arts colleges scheduled to recieve the Sloan award are Carleton, Davidson, Grinnell, Lafayette, Mount Holyoke, Oberlin, Vassar, Wellesley and Williams .. Next week, Concordiensis will examine tbe implications of the Sloan Foundation's grant on Union's -future. Freshman Rep Statem~nts, p. 5

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, Janoory ~0, 1983 n&; .,w ·~ -/\·.t ~' riJ .i!il! ~' ' • Freedom 'i7orum hosts U.A.W. President Douglas Fraser U.A. W. Troubled Fraser Explains_ By MIKEANZENBERGER Staff The second Freedom Forum lecture of this academic year brought Douglas Fraser ?resident of the United Aut~ Workers, to Memorial Chapel. The hard economic times that have fallen upon the United States has, without question, hit the auto industry the hardest. ~r. Fraser .offelled many in- sights and solutions regarding problems faced by the auto industry now, and in the years to come. Fraser admitted that quality and employee morale was very low during the last decade. However, he defended the level of wages paid to 1111ion workers. The President cited that from 1957 to 1977 the real wage rate for the average auto worker only increased $2.99. He ex- plained that because the auto industry was so profitable due to high prodttctivity and demand, that workers deserved a high wage relative to other industry workers. Fur- thermore, Fraser characterized the U.A.W. as \a product of a history of insecurity\ (i.e. the Great Depression). Nonetheless, what was once a union that fought for dignity in the work place, the seniority system, a pensi()n fund, and suppl.imentary benefits must be concerned with getting people back to work. The President ()f the U.A.W. rests much of the blame for our sustained recession on Japan. He accuses Japan of being an :,irresponsible trading partner: taxing and restricting U.S. imports out of the reach of most Japanese consumers, while dumping their goods on U.S. markets with the aid of an undervalued yen. Consequently, the U.S. ran a$16 billion deficit in trade with Japan in 1982 ($13 billion in the auto industry alone). Fraser called for the Federal government to adopt a type of \investment legislation\. This new· legislation would require a percentage of the parts of imported cars sold in the U.S. to be manllfactured in the U.S, The U .A. W. head used Ger- many's Volkswagen as an example of a foreign car maker producing autos and spare parts in the United States. Fraser made a distinction, however, between this idea and the im- port restrictions imposed by Great Britain, France and Germany. The U.A.W. representative also noted that new attitude by the auto in:· dustry towards quality, productivity, and responsibility will enable the auto industry to bounce back. 1\lr. Fraser stated that one out of six jobs in the U.S. economy are linked to the auto industry. This emphasizes the im- portance of the auto industry to our national economy. It is up to Mr; Fraser and the leaders of the auto industry to ensure a healthy and competitive market for U.S. automobiles here and abroad. I Forum Tackles Pub & Skellar Closings The Student Forum, often cr;\iticized for inaction, met Monday night with the intent to resolve some conflicts which have arisen due to the closings of the Dutch Hollow Pub and the Rathskeller on Sunday and Monday evenings. Janet Gray, Director of Food Service, along with Brian Cotterell, manager of the SkeHer, and Gary Salerno, ·manager of the Pub, spoke to the Forum concerning the recent closings. There was discrepancy at first between what the Food Service representatives viewed as a business problem, and what the Forum members felt was the function of the Pub and Skeller to operate as a service to the student ~body. According to Gray, last year was the first year since she has been here that the 'two places hav,e .operated \in the red\. It seems _that with the change in drinking policy, more bouncers are needed to prevent minors from obtaining drinks and that along with the decrease in alcohol sales due to the policy, the two businesses must close two nights out of the week. · Pub and Skeller represen- tatives, though, had a difficult time convincing the Forum members of this necessity. John Wheeler, IFC .·representative, summed up the feeling by . commenting that he perceived the organizations to be a ser- vice, \something there for the students and not only as .a business.\ Acknowledging the economic problems of the two places, Larry Tuchman, Academic Affairs Council representative, reiterated that \the major problem is where do we go on a Sunday or Monday night?\ Jan Gray replied that she would love to keep the Pub and Skeller open, if only students actually patronize. them. On a Sunday or Monday night, it seems, there are \maybe three to six people,\ explained Cot- tere·U. Forum members', though, could not easily be swayed from their point that even if the places w~re losing- money, the fact remains that presently there i~ no place on campus outside of housing where a student can go to talk, relax, and unwind. In the current situation, it is not rare to find students lined up on the staircases outside of the Pizza Pub because the Pub is now closed and there is no place to sit and eat. · Gray also stressed that the closings had nothing to do with the College Administration . .She stressed .. that it was an economic problem; \'The campus is not trying to stop drinking--we're trying to tone down excessive drinking. We are not trying ta stop someone ·Of legal ·drinking age from drinking. We are trying to ~oster sensible social drinking.\ One suggestion that came .up in the discussion of how to resolve the conflict was the possibility of having the College subsidize the Food SerVice with _ .a base budget. Randy Grady, junior representative, argtted . that although it would be better if Food Service was .self sllf- ficient, .if they could not afford to continue offering students certain serv'ices the college should be able to help out. \I feel that it is a service to the I Quiet Dorm students,\ Grady explained. ''I wish West could be open 24 hours with. coffee a•nd doughnuts-it'd <be great, but right now you can't afford it. If . the College did subsidiz.e FoQd · 'Service and ga:ve it a base budget-then you could offer the service to the students.'' Shari Midone.ck, sophomore representative, then suggested the possibility of keeping the Pub open just as a place to sit and talk. \We don't even care if the bar is closed. But there is no place on campus at all to even sit and talk on the .entire campus,'' she remarked. Gray, qpon . hearing this argw:nent, admitted -that it \is a viable suggestion and we will look into it., The next issue on the agenda, related to the above subject, was the possibility of. opening up the Cabaret Room in Carneg•e Hall as a type of non-alcoholic cafe which. would offer varieties of coffee, ice m;eam, and con~ fections. The idea, suggested by sophomore representatives Midoneck and· Steve· :Benson, was needed as a non ... alcoholic alternative to the Pttb ·. and Skeller .. With the change -in drinking policy, there is a need for a. place where_ people, especially llnderage students, who do not intend or even wish to 'drink, can go to eat~ talk and relax, indicated the representatives. Idea Discussed By SCOTT COLLINS Staff New Computers Installed Recently an interest has been expressed for the development of an alternative dormitory in which students could have the option of living in a ·campus facility that would satisfy a student's personal study habits. This alternative housing would give the student a choice of whether to live where a cooperative studying en- virotlnlent is present or not. This in effect would create a \qlliet dorm\ in wliich students could freely study in their rooms without always having to .go to the library to complete their work. of respect for their living place. Lounges could be turned into a more \living:-room\ type at- mosphere. Also it has been suggested that a reduction in student stress may occur. Instead of going to the library, one could study in the comfort of his-her room. This tYPe of proposal would especially favor incoming freshmen who do not have the choice to live off- campus. It is also ... suggested that perhaps a poll of the campus community should be taken to see how students feel about such a proposal. If found favorable, a connnittee might be set up to investigate this alternative. The needed size allocation for such space could also be determined through this poll. · :QyJANBARAN Staff During the last six months, the Computer Facility has tried to assess the demand and need for computers on the campus. The assessment was engineered by a committee composed of senior administrators and faculty. This committee proposed a five-year plan for the Computer Center which had several objectives, First, computer access for the faculty, the administration, and the students was deemed to be a necessary component of this plan. Mr. Wayne E. Holt, Director of Computer Services, expanded on this concept .of ct,mputer access when he described a possible vision of future computer facilities at Vnion · College. This vision advocated the creation of a \network\ wherehy the com· puter facility would be the location of the \main'' com· puters. These computers would operate as the base for many terminals grouped in \clusters\ an over campus. The third aspect of this network would be microcomputers that woUld be privately held by the faculty members and the students. Since these clusters could be situated in every academic department, the possible .uses of this network are endless. One such use seems a little bit far off; but with the advances in computer technology, it is a possibility. This use is a unique employment of word processors by faculty and students. With such an advanced network, students could enter their essays into the word processor and store them into the main computer as data. Later, a professor could access this data and gra.de his, students' papers on the word processor. Besides this objective of access, the committee looked to the computer for efficiency. This type of network would enable a student to concentrate more on the research side of his project than on the c,lculation side. For example, an economics major could use the computer to handle the complicated mathematics and data com- piling; he would be able to center his attention on the application of his project. With the network, a stttdent would also be able to access more information at a quicker rate. In order to carry out these two objectives of the five year plan, the College purchased two new computers which Were put into partial operation during the fall tenn. One computer, called the VAX 11-780, is a \general purpose t i m e- s . ._ a r in g machine\. The use of this machine will be concentrated in the engineering and science departments. Th~ other com- purchased, the HP3000·64, however, probably will be used for mostly administrative purposes. The committee has also looked into the academic possibilities of tb.e computer. Two pilot programs include more extensive word processing in the Hwnanities and library automation. In general, the future of computers at Union College appears to be optimistic. Mr. Holt is \confident tnat the effort to search for new possibilities will we worthwhile.\ He added that. the recent grant by the Sloan Foundation with its emphasis on computer literacy is \affirmation by an outside party\ that Union College can offer extensive academic resources to its students. At this point, computer usage at Union College is in a transitional period. Gradually, older equipment is being replaced by more innovative cQmputers. If the progress continues at its present speed, the existing computer systern at Union, the Burroughs 6805, may be com- pletely replaced within two to three ,Years. Reflecting the view of most of the factilty, Professor Barbara Markiewicz would support and even head up such a proposal. She believes that such a choice shollld be available for the student, and to improve living conditions here at Union. Prof. Markie~cz feels that this type of dormitory could be set up as a cooperative with students deciding upon certain policies 'Stich as study hoQrs, level of noise, and overall use of time. Other strong points expressed are the fact that in this type of dormitory, vandalism may be reduced because the students would, perhaps, receive a sense / Commenting on this idea, Dean of Students Mammola said that as· long as the students favor such an option and this living arrangement could be organized, he would be· in favor of it. The major drawback, he added, is the fact that by con- centrating the · students who want quiet would also mean the concentration of those at the other end of the scale who want their \noise''. If such an arrangement could not be worked out, Dean Mammola expressed that students as a· whole should be ~couraged to be aware of and respect others. Anyone interested in applying for the position of Concert Committee Co- Chairperson, please submit an essay to the Committees c/O Lorraine Marra by Friday, January 28. The essay should address your goals, ideas, and qualificati.ons for the posit.ion. - 1 s ter see the cor Se1 m~ thE tbE \llC ca M1 be' I At th: fa~ \o of ro1 tol Wl sn m ell in eil a ro ar sil sd te SL \• ' e~ r~ st b: le lo SJ hi dl pi b: Ci tl

- ' ''1 24 :~,nd but :. If . ood ase the ore ted tbe sit eif no ren ire !iY, nt, tlle 1to la, ct, up ~le lie les m- l>y es tn, lie nd in ed. e, is, sh ld 1e a OONOORDIENSIS, Janua.ry SO~ 1988 Page_ a Thefts Plague Campus By MARCY Bt.JRSTINER New$ Jt.Utor Since the beginning ·of fall term, the College has f~ced a seemingly dramatic increase in thefts on carnpU$, causing great concern within the Campus security Depa:rtment. Four major incidents have occurred; the athletic facilities have been the target of a series of small \llcket room thefts, and the campus ho~es of Brc:mner, McKean, and Smith have all been burglarized. . .- . Dick Sakala,. Director of tne Athletic Department, explained that thefts in the athletic facilities have been ocpurring \off and on since the fall.\ Most .of the i,Midents were loeker room thefts With an estimated total of $250-$500 worth of cash, watches,. radio,s; and Qtber . small valu~ble~ stolen .. Sakala mentioded .four specific in- , cidents, each . occurring wben intercollegiate teams were- either in competition or were in a practice session: The locker room for the women~s soccer · and tennis teams was the f(rst site, and. in October the Pot~ - sdatn. women's .field hOckey team _was the victim of another such occurrence. ·In December, \a cansiderable amount\ -art estimated $300-$400 · in cash, radios; and · watches - was stolen from the Elmira basketball team. In this case, at least, the locker room had 'been locked, but Sakala would .not speculate on whether the cUlprit had possession of a key to the door. The last such theft bap.- pen~d to Union's own varsity basketball team, and ·in this case all locks were cUpped off the lockers. Sakala commented that it seems the thief was s&meone who knew when the teams would ·be practiCing aqd at wbat time the locker rooms woitld be locked. Since these iDcidents, the security within the athletic facilities has been increased. Locks have been changed· and men are now stationed inside the locker rooms. !'One of our own staff opens and 1 closes1he room for visiting teams,'' Sakala assured,. but at the same time admitted that he did not know .how many master key~ to the room are on campus~ He did ~~mit, though, that ''it's 11ecome · . an embarrassing situation. We can't even protect a visiting team . . • we're very paranoid right now. Whoever it is, is very brash about ..• It's the first year that we've had this problem~\ In order to preven~ such in-. cidents from T'P.I:'nrring •. there will be a better check: of ID cards in the Alwnni Gym, and students are warned not to 'leave valuables. unguarded. Christopher Chadwick, Assistant Director of Campus Security and .Safety, attributed the thefts, .to the recent tise in the unemployment situation. \When we exPerience a round of unemployment such as we have been faced with, .it is generally conceded that there will also be an increase in thefts.'' With the · current economic situation; .people whO have no income expected, turn to crime to bring in. money. _ taken so that all valuables .are . left home and are not left in the - locker room area. S. Dormitory rooms should be kept locked at all times. 6. If one notices a dormitory door propped open he or she should unprop it. 7. Since this is a relatively small campus and students are familiar with one another, anyone who sees someone walking through the buildings,. dormitories, or around campus who is acting suspiciously, should notify security. On a final note, ·Chadwick commented that one needless obstacle to the job of ·the security officers. is students wh.o, upon . request for examination of ID cards, refuse to cooperate with the officer. All Athletic Director Dick Sakata., concerned over recent thetts. students, faculty, ad- ministration, and staff mem- bers are issued college ID cards and it is the most efficient method of determining whether a person belongs on campus. Clladwick would not be specific as to- how much. was. stolen ftQm Bronner, McKean, and Smith House because all three burglaries are ''actively uilderinvestigation.\ He: is not certain whether the crimes were r'elaled. The Bronner House inCident, ·which occurred oveJ; vacatiQ~, no property was stolen but entrance was forcibly gain~d. In McKean, which· Student Aid Jeopardized houses the Ka.ppa Alpha After open combat, the battle Society, property was stolen often moves underground. and the forced entrance to that Attempts at cutting student building also occurred during financial aid programs . have vacation. In the Smith House been temporarily thwarted at ease, although it was not an both t11e state and federal actual ''break in,\ as ,entrance levels. Hostilities may have ~ was not forced, proper.ty, was , ceased for the moment, but both stolen while residents · were camps are regrouping and asleep' within. rethinking strategy for the Although Chadwick spoke upcoming fiScal year. Budget only in general terms; .he did wars are predicted to be waged mention that . there · were with greater intensity · as. suspects in several of the thefts deficits blossom both in Albany and thatjn one case fingerprints and Washington. were found. :Ue also conunented Robest Massa, Director of that he would like to believe tha.t Financial at the College, is also the crimes-were committed by 'Chairman-of State Relations for people ou.tside the campus the New York State Financial community, but that the Aid A d minis t rat o r' s possibility of the culprits being Association (NYSF AAA). students would not be ruled out. Massa's duties include the. chapwi(llt _was quick to note •. ~. draftil).g o:f su~n~est~d legislation . tbattlit: Securi..ty Department is -~ wbich,, in turn, is lobbied fodn currently working with its of- an attempt at introduction. At fleers to \increase thelr this time in Alba,ny, the docket awareness of what:is going on.\ is clear ·Of bills relating to He also took the time to list financial aid, but this does not some steps that students can deter strategists. take to prevent crimes from occurring. .1. Students should be aware of current economic conditions and the effect that such con· ditions have on the rate .of theft. 2. Most incidents are \crimes of opportunity, tl in that cir· cumstances are such that thieves know there is a high probability that they will get away .wi.th it. 3. If one is working out- in the gym, he or sbe should make certain· that all belongings are .locked up. · 4. Precautions Should be Of concern to Massa and administrators across the state, is the so-called Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) \Uppercut\. When begun in 1974, the program called for juniors and seniors to receive two hundred dollars less than the maximum grant given to underclassmen. Though the maximum amount was raised percent origination fee tacked on to Guaranteed Student Loans ... , the twelve percent cut we sustained in the Federal sup- plemental grants. received last year and the fifteen percent cut in College Work Study. . Of interest to graduate school students is the NYSF AA's plannedskirmish to attempt to increase the maximum graduate school TAP award from $600 to $1,100. The _projected cost of this increase is close to seven million dollars of the State Treasury. The total package for the existing Tuition Assistance Program is bet- ween$22 ... 23 million. States Massa, \This is my legislative priority for the year.\ On ·J~nul!ry'17, tp~J'~l:ew York Times reported that Governor Cuomo was preparing to cut \good programs\ in his fight to meet \our constitutional obligations to balance the budget.\ Obviously, steps to increase funding of any State programs will be met with less than warm receptions. Massa agrees that , \it would be naive for us to believe that we will get everything that we ask for.\ State U ni v e r s.i ties. Administrators recognU:e that the interests of public and private institutions in the State often do not coincide. One example is the TAP program itself. The tuition-sensitive aid benefits the student attending the ·higher £OSt private in- stitution and, subsequently, SUNY schools are expected to oppose reforms of the program in · the face of alternatives benefitting public sector students. Massa likes to think that it is possible to overcome this confrontation in the name of higher education at-large. But, the realist surfaces and \as the competition gets more fierce for scarce dollars,\ the rivalry will continue. As for predictions of success, Massa sees Cuomo as \a friend of education.\ Cuomo is a product of private institutions and it is hoped that his allegiance will aid the in- dependent college cause. But,. asks Massa hesitantly, \who got Cuomo elected?'' The Director of Financial Aid at the College sees Cuomo as indebted to labor and if push comes to shove, worker benefits will win over student benefits. Journol Started · to $2,200 in 1981, the ''uppercut\ still exists. Massa projects that the total cost to the State to eliminate this automatic decrease in funds would be in the range of fifteen to sixteen million dollars. Massa projects that Assemblymen and Senators might react by saying, ''don't NYS.FAA's Chairman of State Relations also believes that it would be \equally naive\ to suspend or delay action by his organization. Massa sees these TAP reforms as long overdue and candidly states that ''the State facing huge deficits is not my problem as an ad- ministrator of financial aid.'' Massa warns that his organization will not be the only lobbyists converging on Albany during these fiscally hard tinles. NYSF AA would face the rejection of their proposals with the attitude that \we have devoted time to a good cause and we lost.\ The Federal cease-fire will be broken as the President releases his fiscal1984 budget at the end of this month. Massa expects \the impetus for change in student aid will again come from the Administration . .. do not be surprised to see the elimination of SEOG, the elimination of National Direct Student Loan monies, a cut of about 40 percent in Pell grants, and an inerease in the origination fee for Guaranteed Student Loans.\ A summary of last year's warfare was presented in tl].e . Chronicle of Higher Education and is reprinted to give a glimpse of what is ahead. By DAVE WOLLIN . Staff Union students will now have an opportunity to publish ~esearch worthy of recognition m a journal recently established on campus. The Union College Undergraduate Review (UCUR) will, focus on un- dergraduate research from the humanities and social sciences. UCUR will be pubUshed once per term, each issue consisting of approxiril.ately fifty pages, and will be distributed to the College community and sfrnllar small, private academic·· in- stitutions. .The Internal I!lducation Foundation of TJ'nion ·College · has indicated its support of the project ~~y allocating a $3,000 grant for the 1982,.83 academic year. The editorial board of the Review Gonsists of three students (Win Thurlow, Jeffrey Van Detta, and David. Wolliil) and a faculty advisor from the S.o.cial Sciences Division (~ofessor Martha J:(uggins- Sociology) and the Humanities Division (Professor Thomas Warger-Moderu Languages). The UCUR needs students' quality research- worthy of recognition and publication to be submitted for inclusion in the Review; all contributions must be nominated for submission by a faculty member. There are no specific content requirements, and submissions may include critical essays, original tran- slations, . independent studies, theses abstracts, original in- vestigations, 'theoretical papers, and other research papers of outstanding and noteworthy quality (preferred length approximately 10 ... ]:5- pages). . Subrnissionsfor the first issue must be received by Friday, February 18, 1983, at Box 2551. If the Review is to be suc- cessful, we must have your involvement. If there ~:tre qny qu~stions, pleas~ contact either Professor Huggms or Professor Warget, or send a note, to Box 2551.. . · talk to me about two hundred dollars, that is not a lot/' But adds the Director, it is ·Of vitai ill)portance because of \high student unemployment, the five Among those groups vying for attention and funding will be the · The Issues What the.AdminiStration 'Cried to Do Wll;at lias Happened Thus Far - Guaranteed ·To curb growth of federal spending (or IOJUIS. Federal spending bas lilmon doubled since 1980, al' .Student~• though the number ofloans is expected to drop by 22 per cent from fiscal I !181 to 1982. To require all students to demonstrate financial need to Students whose fiU)liJies cam more than $3Q,OOO a year · qualify for a loan. must demonstrate financial nce4 t.o qualify for a loan. To ciW'&c a 16-per-<:ent fee on loans. A S,per-cent fu is charged on .loans. · .. To reduce federal inierest subsidies. Interest subsidies have nofliecn reduced. Pe!l Grants To cut the budget by mort than .ro.per cent. Litdc c:hanse in the budget siilce 1980. To reduce aid to iniddlc,iQCOmc students by denying Grants arc available to atudcnts whose families earn up : Jlf8)Jts to moststud~nts whose families earn more ~ · to .bout $26,000 a year. $18;000 a year. To require that information on all grant applications be checked aialnst incomc·taxforms. About half of all rint applications must be 'Checked against WI forms. ~ Social Security To bar college studcnlifrom entering the program af\er cOllege student.• an: barred from entering tbe .proaram Student AUIIUSt·l, 1981. . aller May t, 1982. Benefits To reduce lflldually the pay!llenls to suidents already Payments _to students alrudy receivmg benefits will be receiving benefits, and to c liminate the pnigT;\m by 1984, hllui:cd ll'lldually, and lhe program will be eliminated by 1985. Other To eliminat.e Supplemental Educational Opport!Jnity The budget for supplemental &rants and incentive pants Student·Aid Gmnts and State Student Incentive Grajlts, · hu been cut by ~ per cent. Prognom• To provide no new funds for National Direct Student New funds for direct loans have been .cut by more tllan Loans, and to bar colleges with.dcfault ratl)s over 2S·per 3S per \nt over the last two years. CoUegcs with default cent from ·receiving additional loan mc~ney. · rates ot over 2S per cent are baiTed from reccivina addi' To .eliminate many small speciat-purpose grants to col- tiona! loan money. Miscellaneous · Grams for state planning .have been eliminated. Most COllege Aid leges, including aid for c~perativc edlication,_libraries, other programs have been continued with reduced buds· Program• and campus programs sef'lmg. veterans; araduate fellow• ets. ships for women and minorilY·aroup studl!llts; and liid to . statf's fpr hlghcr·educati<~n plaqniag •. ' Jl u IU VI

Page 4 CONOORDIENSIS, January SO;, 1983 ~ue uotale lea'ds Karate exercise on campus Profile: Sue Goldie By JAN BARAN Staff The signs were posted all over <;ampus during the first week of the Winter term. \Karate Tae Kwon Do is being offered again,\ they read. The in- ~tructor of this class, however, Is not a Union College professor or even someone from outside the campus. The instruCtor happens to be a junior named Sue Goldie, a second degree black belt. Sue Goldie organized the Karate Club during her freshman year at Union C()llege; and now the club has an impressive roster liSt of seventy-sijj; members. Although the club is. mostly comprised of beginning karate students in· dicated by their white belt status, there are also ap- proximately - twenty-four s~u.dents with yellow belts and eight stud~;!nts with green ·belts. course.'·' She emphasiZes that her cla!!ses are taught in the authentic style and therefore are a studY. of the martial arts. Her classes, as a result, are taught .in ·a very disciplined way. This discipline is indicated by her fellow students' use of ''Yes maam\ in class. The~end result of this discipline is a very hard and rigorous workout for all of her students each lesson. Classes are ta~ght by Sue Goldie four hours a. day, four days a week. The karate classes offered at Union are also fertunate to have Campus Bars Cut Hours Sue Goldie is a· chemistry major who originally came from Parlin,. New Jersey. Her studies of karate began seven years ago back in New _Jersey. In high school, Sue became seriously interested in karate in gym class and was practicing two to three hours a day, six days'aweek. Later, Suedecided to join the Korean Karate Academy nearby. One major drawback of the academy was the fact that the academy only had male members. She ad- mitteed that there was a \lot of antagonism beca.use there were twenty-five guys in the ,class and one female,\ but she learned to handle the situation· after she became more skilled in karate. Her hard work for the last seven years seems to have paid off. Sue now has. thirty trophies won in tournaments on -Sue . Goldie's instructor from New J.ersey, ranked number one in the United States, who flies in to test them each term. During this session, the students in the class re tested on three aspects of karate, fighting, one step sparring, and fonns, in· order to improve their belt status. The final aspect of karate testing, only in black belt level, breaking, i_nvolves breaking pieces of wood with advanced kicking techniques. In order to reach Sue Goldie''s black belt status, many years of training, testing and more tr~ining are necessary. . Sue indicated that it takes a \good number of years, at least three to five, to achieve the black belt status.\ By JUDIE STEINHARDT Staff Recently, the College Food Service decreased the hours at the Rathskellar and Dutch Hollow Pub because both places are losing money. The closings had little to do with the change in drinking policy. According to Janet Gray, neither establish- ment is being well supported. She said, \We simply do not have the business. It is not cost- effective. It is our food dollars.\ Because of this loss of money, the Skellar and Pub will only be open for dinner on Monday nights. Sunday, neither place is open after dinner, although the Pub never was open late on Sundays. The rest of the week it will alternate; one will open while the other will close. The exact schedule was in last week's Concordiensls. There are two direct results of this new schedule: first, Food Service is cutting down on labor, and second,· because of the alternative openings, one place is partially filled, rather than both places being empty. Both of these measures save money. The change has not completely eliminated financial loss, but it has diminished it greatly. For example, on Wednesday, January 12, the Skellar closed at 1:30, while the Pub closed after dinner. According to Brian Cotterell, the Skellar Manager, $107 was taken in that night, while $205 was needed just to break even. The loss would have been much greater if the Pub was open also, because it costs that much more to run a second establish- ment. Gary Salerno, Manager .. of the Pub, also said the schedule change was due to financial loss rather than the new drinking age. He said, \We were anticipating this a long time ago.\ As much as students may complain, they are not supporting the Skellar and Pub and that is way both places are going to be open fewer hours; There is no definite answer to why people are drinlting less than they used_ to. JanetGra,y of Food Service says the change came abcut during the recent increase in diet, health and exercise awareness. It was not a result of the drinking age because it started long before the new law came into effect. Gray believes that people are much wiser about what they take into their bodies; there is a greater consciousness of \health and well being.\ Alcohol comsumption is dropping. Gray says, \I would love to have the easy profit of frink specials. The health ad- vocate and hwnanist in me says no.\ We'll continue with limited specials, but we don't en- courage people to over drink. Why encourage people to over drink? If college · students are cutting down on their drinking, the school should accept that and cut back the hOurs that the on-campus drinking establish- ments are open.\ Janet Gray is in the midst of formulating an alternative · to the drinking establiShments. One idea, suggested by Student Forum members, is a light bite late night place with herb teas, international coffees, t•ich desserts, and no alcohol. Most schools have places like that, but Mrs. Gray says, \I'd like to see ours on campus.'' She is going to send out an all-campus mailing to students to see what they want, what can encourage attendance, and what they think is happening to cause all these changes .. Mrs. Gray says the Pub was _ Four Union Students, Jhomas Frye, Marcia Lifshitz; Jon litus, and Andy Wellen and Professor Huggins have organized a speaking series entitled; \What Students Should Know About Draft Registration.\ All lectures and discussions will begin at 7:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge, Carnegie HalL The Schedule IS As Follows: Thursday, January 20, 1983-\Women and the Draft,\ Discussion of whether women should be drafted and whether there should be a draft. Speakers: (Sponsored by Women's Network) Louise McNeilly-Socia! Action Center; Ed Burhmaster Thursday, January 27, 1983-\History of Draft Resistance and Pacifism\ Speakers: (Sponsored by Speaker;s Forum) Professor' Larry Whittner-Department of History, SUNYA; Professor William B ri stoi-Department of His tory, Union College. Thursday, Februa.ry 3, 1983-\Draft Politics, and the Church.\ Speakers: Father James Murphy-Catholic Priest and Pacifist; Mike Fitzsimmons-Local draft resister. or.iginally started because students and faculty wanted an a la carte place to pay cash, \break bread with professors,\ and do some social drinking. She says, \It was developed exactly as students and faculty wanted it. The ,people who wanted it worked in it, and supported it.'' The Skellar's most profitable years also were during the time that it was run by a student. The social climate was more geared towards drinking, and those who ran the Skellar supported it. Food Service is considering the possibility of a new place run completely by students, responsible only to the director of Food Service. The new place would be a non-alcoholic, dessert cafe like the one already described. Right now the main objective is finding out what the students want and making the apa propriate changes. The Administration is not trying to stop students from drinking, it is trying to find out what we really :want. • the East Coast. She feels that one of her major achievements was at a tournament in Rutgers, New Jersey, where she placed in three divisions, ilicluding one men's division. Her Ultimate achievement, however, was her seventh place national ranking in 1981. Circ.umstances prevented her from competing last year, but Sue hopes to go to the National Tournament in Little Rock, Arkansas, , this April. The money made from bel;\ classes will hopefully help her to achieve that goal. A .special aspect of Sue GQldie' s karate class is that it .is not just a \regUlar- karate Socialized Medicine Upcoming events for- the karate classes include an open demonstration by Sue Goldie's instructor during the last weekend in February. All students and faculty members are invited to watch this demonstration on campus. Students interested in joining one of her classes should watch · the campus bulletin boards at the beginning of the spring term for those familiar .posters reacting, \Tae .Kwon Do i~being offered again! \ Term Abroad Offered ByLYNNHANO Staff Anyone who is interested in learning about and ex- periencing a very different system, should consider Union's summer term on Socialized Medicine. This program is not just for 'students planning to go on to medical school, but is very relevant to students studying history, sociology, psychology, political science, and economics. The program will deal with the medical approach as well as the soCial, economic, and political implications of socialized medicine. The program was created in 1977 by Professor Robert Baker of the Philosophy Department. He felt it would be interesting to give students a view .of socialized health and how it works in other countries. Originally, the students went to England, Sweden, and Poland, but two years ago they stopped going to Poland because .of all the political unrest. This year students will again be viewing medicine in Easter-n block coqntries. They will be visiting Berlin, East Germany and Budapest, Hungary. The program begins in June where the students spend one week examining hea,lth care institutions in the United States, specifically the Albany area. Last summer's \orientation week'; included visits to Capital District Psychiatric Center, Sunnyview Rehabilitation Center., Community Health Plan, St. Clares Hospital as well as several other health care centers and a lecture from Dr. L. Weiner on private practice. Following the week spent at Union, it's off to London, England. Students spend three weeks attending lectures and visiting hospitals and clinics getting a comprehensive overview of England's system of socialized medicine. Students then travel to East Berlin and Budapest spending a week at each city. The program ends with three weeks in Sweden. In each country stUdents'observe the system and make com- parisons on the different ap· proaches. Professor Freeman of the term abroad office stated that the cost of the program iS. in line with the co~t of one term at Union. All finan<!ial aid a student receives is transferred toward the program. The tuition includes room and board, a Eural pass and the expense of educational program. She also added that it does not include the cost of the two-way plane ride, books, leisure travel within Europe or any souvenirs · or alcohol one is bound to buy while traveling. The summer term is equivalent to one term at Union and includes three liberal learning courses given · .by Professor Baker. Because this program is during the swnmer, a student can take a term off during the school year./ After having been inttoduced to the socialized mediCine program, one may be interested in finding out more about it. A meeting will be held on Thur- sday, February 10,. at 4:30p.m. in SS016. Toher Arrives · By LISA FOLEY Staff Professor Mark Tober, a new addition to the Classics Department this trimester, came to Union because he likes the community atmosphere. The n,ine to five job, he says is not for him. Though a wan of bookshelves already loom, full in his office, a pair of hockey skates sit in the corner; he hasn't missed a. Onion game. Described by Professor Christina Sorum, Chairperson of the Classics Department, \as a man with boundless energy,\ one can see it has been wisely invested.- A graduate of :Srown, he received a scholarship to Oxford. The tutorial program taught him the importance of teaching students how to think. Professor Tober stresses that a Classic major; which he deems to be like any other humanities major, teaches students how to express themselves clearly. He also feels that the major can bring a student just as far as any other major. Of the five people he kiiew who were Classics majors at Brown, three, including himself, went on to Oxford and two others went to Harvard Law School. Presently, Professor Tober is working on a PhD. in Ancient · Continue« oai page: 18 .. - w a.:

- tS that in the ~ref ore il arts. t,, are plined ~cated USj! of 1e end a very 1Ut fo_r esson. ; Sue , four red at >have from imber ; who term. the ted on tra:te, (,and t their ect of k belt olves with .ques. ldie''s :1rs of rnore .Sue 'good three t belt the open ldie's last All 1bers this tpus. ining ratch Is at t.erm tt.ers teing a of is .by off to of a to OQNOORDIENSIS, January SO, 1983 P;;tge 5 FRESHMAN. REPRESENTATIVE STATEMENTS Dwight Cooper· Hi! I'm Dwight Cooper ~n<l I'm from ·Simsbury, Con- . necticut. I am majoring in Electrical Engineering .and-live on 3rd floor West ;My interests · include computers, fishing, , sailing, and c:unping. In my .first term here at Ulrlon · I have made many friends. and developed a great sense of priae · in our school and the people who make it a great place. I am enthusiastically in- terested in representing our · cla:ss'sviewson pertinentjsstles : like the school's drinking policy and places for us to go on llights when the Skeller and Pub are ·closed. Wjth the increased drinking ~ge,~now, more than ever, the freshman voice needs to be heard and if elected I intend to corrunit myself to our needs; Cooper DeVito Michael-De Vito I lpve Union C!)llege! I feel the best way to show how much I love being here is to do something constructive for the school. I want to ,give my time and en~rgy as Freshman · Representative of the Student Cl) Forum. I will be able to use the -E var-ied experiences I have .c acquired in high school and at ~ Union tomakemy place on_ the t Forum reach its fullest ~ potential. The best way to be a part of a school is to be active in ~ student goverrunent and that is why I am running; · Although Union is great, I feel we can make it better. We need other social outlets besides the Skellar and the Pub. Many Freshmen have mentioned that they would like to socialize· in places other than the pla~s Union has to offer. 1 want the Freshmen to continue to be involved in the. social life at Union ev:~n though the drinking age restricts them. There is the possibility of an ice cream parlor and a dance place opening here. I would like·to see them become realities. I want to make the Union campus a place of excitement and ca}>able of keeping· the students here in· stead of going elsewhere for a good tiine. I have a lot of experience in running various organizations. I held offices in student govern- ment, newspaper, yearbook, and community projects, My participation was constant ~nd my determination to malte things work was my major objective. Each program gave me insight in how school ac- tivities should be run and the most effective. way of doing them. At Union I continue to participate in activities such as the International Relations Club, Concordiensis,. _Moun- tebanks and Concert Com- mittee. I am involved, so I know :what is going on and I feel this will enable me to do a better job as Freshman Representative. Vote for me for a strong determined voice on the Student Forum. If I am elected I will always be available to listen to comments, ideas and criticisms from you- my classmates. We arethe class of '86: Let me help us get a .good start here at Union. '_Lisa Foley If you want to see positive ·changes at Union then now~ a_s freshmen, is the time· to initiate those changes. I wantto bring to the Student Forum your opinions on such important issues as the drinking policy on. campus, your ideas for new clubs, such as a ski club and your ideas .for other services this cQllege can provide for you. I am involved with writing for the Concordtensis thus I am aware of the happenings on campus. I am also involved in soccer and softball. Being involved here at Union helps me help you, Vote for me if you want a strong voice representing the freshman ·class. I'm interested in making ·changes here at Union beginning now, as a freshman, so that all four of our years. can be excitlng ones. ' 'Foley George Andrew George Throughout my high school years, I served in various student government positions. I was class secretary in my freshman year, a job where minimal intelligence and in- terest are the only qualifications. Striving for something more challenging, I slowly moved up the school's governmental structure and in my senior year served as class president. Being elected by the . people you live and work with is -a privilege which I have always cherished. I realize that the work of a requires much more dedication andtime than does,a high school .- student government. However, I have always enjoyed .a challenge. At first, a task may seem unattainable but with hard work and an unyielding willingness to see that task done right, there is very little that cannot be done. · I am prepared and anxious to accept the responsibilities that come with the Student Forum. I hope that you wUl give me an opportunity to serve Union College, the . Student Forum, and you. Maria Johnson Hi! My name is Maria Johnson, and I am running for Student Forum Representative. I would consider it an honor and privilege to be chosen as our class's spokesperson. We are the youngest class, and there is a lot that the Forum decides that affects us- for example, alcohol policy. For thOse of you that do not know me, I am not afraid to express my views. In fact, my priority as Representative would be to make the Freshman class's views known in no· uncertain terms to the Forum. There is nothing I feel more strongly about. I am looking forward to representing you. I would certainly appreciate your support on Friday. Thank you! ! Johnson Levine college student government · -------------- Sharon Levine a greatly needed student center in an attempt to unify the fresh- · man class. Crea-ting closer more direct relationships with . the administration in an effort to protect students' rights is an , important facet of a sue- · cessfully rm1 .student body. We freshmen, constitute a quarter of the student body and we need competent student representation. I feel that I could effectively assume the . role of student representative for for the freshman class considering that I have had prior experience as an active member of a student council in high school. I hope that you, the class of 1986, will support my endeavors and see fit to elect me, Sharon Levine, as your representative. Lipman Eric Lipman CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS- The first question that might come to your mind is why am I, Sharon Levine, running for Freshman Representative. If I have learned anything at all during the time I have been at Union, it is that it takes a great deal of courage for someone to stand up and say that they want to be a part of things. Indeed, anyone who has ever tried out for a sports team, auditioned for a part in a play, or even spoke out at a meeting, will know what I mean; wanting to give your time and energy to something when it would be so much easier just to lie back, takes a special kind of com• mitment. I have made that kind of commitment before, and would like to make it again if elected as a Freshman Representative to the Student Forum. Starting out last fall as a. Representative from my floor, and now having the pleasure of serving as the Vice- President of the Fox Dorm Council, I have at every step been a part of facing and solving the kinds of problems the larger Student Forum has to deal with. I believe that the Class of '86 should have someone who has the courage to work hard, and the desire to make a difference. I think that I could be just such an addition to the Student Forum, and I ask for your support. A new summer internship program for juniors and seniors was announced by the Graduate and Continuing Studies office. The program, · called the New York City Internship Program, is scheduled to begin this summer and applications are currently being taken. \The primary goal is to aid, in the career development of our liberal arts majors,\ said. Assistant Dean Joan Krejci. \For most of them, the · tran~ sition .from the academic to the work world after graduation is a difficult one. Both the academic · and the experimental parts of this program are designed to make that transition easier.\ i Students accepted into the HOW'S YOUR PERSONAl LIBRARY? Did you know there's a second-hand book shop only one block ·from campus? Our stock -of thousands of out-of-print volumes, entirely fr.ee of textbooks and · pap.erbacks, Is frequentec:t by both students and professors who are building libraries. We're open every afternoon, anc:l welcome browsers, Somers Bookshop · 841 Union Street (acros~ Gillespie) i internship program by the Continuing StudiJ'lS office and the supervising employer will be required to take a Managerial Accounting course at the same time that they are working in one of several New York firms. Krejci stressed that a variety of internships will be available, suitable for a wide range of Union majors. Television in- vestigative reporting, public . relations, fund-raising, ad- vertising, retail, banking, publishing are some of the kinds of internships offered. \And several of the sites will offer a reasonable salary,\ she noted. The usual internship will last for approximately ten weeks in T.he Davidson Dorm council will be sponsoring a ski. trip to Windham Mt. on Saturday, January 29. Priority will be given to Davidson residents, and then it will open up for the rest of the campus on Monday, Nikolai Sorokin was a metal worker born in 1953 in the USSR. In .November 1977 he was charged with \anti-Soviet slander.'' Mr. Sorokin was ruled not responsible by a forensic psychiatric commission which recommended compulsory treatment in an ordinary psychiatric hospital. The court, however, sent Mr• Sorokin to a special psychiatric hospital. In 1980, Nikolai Sorokin died in Dnepl\opetrovsk Special Psychiatric Hospital. The I the summer; involving 35-40 hours per week. In addition, students will always be taking at least one course; they may also opt tQ take an independent study. In some cases it may be possible for students to continue their internship through the fall term at the sarne time com- pleting _three course credits~by the end of their six-month ex- perience. · Because the number of sites are limited, the program is competitive. Applications forms are available at Graduate and Continuing Studies, Wells House. The deadline for application is February 4. January 24. The cost of the trip will tie $24. This includes transportation- and an all day lift ticket. Rentals are available for an additional $10. If in- terested, call Paul or Steve at 6711. available information suggests that Mr. Sorokin died from kidney failure caused by the administration of powerful drugs over a long period. The Union CoDege Amnesty International group is presently involved in an ex3JI1ination of the conditions of Mr. Sorokin's death. To participate in the inquicy, join Amnesty Inter- national on Thursday, January. 20 at 6:45 in Social. Sciences lounge. Your concern is greatly appreciated. · There are many reasons for this decision but my main goal is to be aple to voice the opinions of my classmates and to make our four years at Union College the best four years of our lives! , With the new drinking age in the state, the social life for many freshmen has diminished. I feel that the school needs to offer more social activities such as con~erts, club activities, and Parent's Weekend ByGAYLEROSENFELD Staff Once again Parents' weekend is rapidly ap- proaching at Union, and its committee is hard at work preparing for it. This event will be held on the weekend of May 6, 7, and 8 and should prove to be as successful if not more so than it has been in past years. This year'S Parents' Weekend Committee has Professor Byron Nichols of the Political Science. Department and Professor Barbara Markiewicz .of the Psychology· Department assisting with faculty in- volvement for the . weekend Lorraine Marra as Coordinate; of Student Activities, and Jane Wood who resumes her last year's position as coordinator of the event. Also, as usual, Union students are the event's mairt workforce. It i,:l these students who comprise all of the com- mittee~s subcommittees and are responsible for much of the leg work involved. Therefore, all other people with a desire to help are more than encouraged to attend the me_etings usually held on Mondays and Thursdays at 4.:30 in Strauss Lounge, .Carnegie Hall. One important aspect of this weekend that should be resolved as soon as possible is that of hotel reservations. This, along with other important information, will be mailed to parents shortly; however, there is currently a hotel list posted at Carnegie Center ticket booth. Anyone with questions or even suggestions should direct them to any .of the Parents' Weekend Committee members vr particularly tq Jane Wood in the Career Center at x6176. Although the group has already met three times., more input from the campus is needed to make this a great weekend for all. ' '

!Off-Campus.· Bar Etiquette! Union's Child Care· )ly LOREN WEBBER equipped to keep the children By KELLY SPRINGFIELD The increasingly con- servative alcohol distribution policies of our once-beloved campus waterholes has effected a severe decrease in · the number of students that patronize the Pub and the Rathskeller -this year. This would indicate that students 'have responded to the .present social conditions by ceasing their consumption of alcohol in public places or by taking their business and friends to off- campus establishments. I for one, suspect the latter. What significance is there to this phenomenon? Primarily, the dispersion of our student body into the local bars will bring two rather segregated groups into contact with each other. These two groups, the \locals\ and the \college kids,\ may have little prior experience with each other, and may try to interact with each other utilizing · preconceived stereotypes. Thus, I have Wl- · dertaken the task of presenting a few guidelines for the conduct of \coUegekids\ in local bars to decrease the chances for an- tagonistic sentiments to dominate the atmosphere of our off-campus experiences. I will add that I have compiled these guidelines on the basis of three years of extensive patronage of our local bars; successfully and WlSUccessfully swapping bet- ween the role of \college kid\ and \loc<l. Though the patrons of these bars are as diverse and stratified as the neighborhoods in which they live, several general rules can be applied to them all. A. Transportation 1 f Leave the \Beemer\ at home. Nothing will create more antagonism than . to illegally park your 1983 BMW or Datsun 280ZX in front of the bar of your choice. Try and find a destitute friend who owns nothing newer or nicer than a 1974 Chevy Nova. B. Choice of Bar 1) Try to find a friend who can recommend a safe local bar. If you have no experienced friends, then read on. 2) Check the appearance of the bar. Much can be Wl· derstood about the clientele by studying the exterior of the bar. a) ''Pickup trucks lining the streets around the bar,\ means many young men in flannel shirts and scruffy beards wearing well-worn baseball caps that proclaim their favorite beer or brand of truck. They also use draft beer glasses for their shots of Jack Daniels. b) \Corner · bars with burned out lights in the sign,\ means a mature clientele (35 and older) who wear white socks and black shoes and, regardless of the time of year, sit at the bar in short•sleeved polyester shirts and red, tex- tured noses. c) \Modern flashing signs over a progressive looking bar,\ means the bar is inhabited by local kids of our age group (up to 26) that wear Sergio Vanderbilt~Klein look-a- like jeans, and religiously blow- dried hair. C. Fraternization With Locals 1) Friendships through in- teraction at local bars can be achieved if a deliberate program is undertaken. However, much depends on your conduct once in the bar. Here are some general rules. a) Do not pinch any good- looking girls in the bar. There is always at least one 6'4'' hulk connected to that delicious derriere. ,b)· Girls-~.never wrinkle your nose in .disg-ust when you watch a local savor the wonn at the bottom of a tequila bottle. c) Do not play foosebaU unless both your wrists are broken. d) Avoid high-falutin discu~sions on the long- reaching effects of ·Reagan's last govermnent cut. It· will invar-iably affect the unem· ployed streetcleaner you are trying to impress. e) Do try to talk about ho.w many · shots you don't remember drinking last ~onday (drinking on Monda,y mghts admits you into a loose brotherhood in Schenectady). f) Never challenge a local to a drinking contest. If you lose · you will only .find yourself puking into a scum.my toilet bowl. If you win you will have insulted a now-trashed in- dividual who possesses two fists and a pair of boots that can iilfl.j.ct a great deal of pain on your bodily person (i.e. \shit- kickers\ are not only used to kick inanimate objects) . · 2). Conversation a) Never refer to union workers as ''blood' ·sucking leeches.\ · bi) Always refer to Reagan's Soviet sanctions as a plot to starve the pregnant Wives of Schenectady's unemployed. c) Never tell anyone that you take courses .in the '''Philosop'h'y of Sex\ or '' Astronom:Y.;' 3) Dress a) Never wear clothes that are exclusively out of the L.~. Bean catalogue or anything l:lought in New York or Long Island. Thus I conclude r.ny guidelines for \Off-Campus Bar Etiquette.'' I do not gu~rantee that these hints Will ensure you a fun tenure in off-campus bars or, forthatmatter,.a.tenure free of bodily damage. What I can guarantee is that you will not .. be having your memorable soCial moments in the Pub and Rathskeller as our predecessors did. Maybe this will just help ease the pain of our alter- natives. · Staff occ~pied: There are table$ and chatrs .for coloring, a jungle gym, a record player' mats, and even a skeleton to learn about their bodies. The hoU$e is also Nestled away behind' t-he Alumni Gytn.J stands a gray house that not many people know about. 'This house is the Union College Child Care Center-Nursery School. This operation goes from 7:45 a,m. until 5::30 'p.m. nonstop, thanks to the inexhaustible efforts of staff memt>ers,: Carolyn Danek; Susan Noe Rothman, K;a:thy Vanne, Mary Elmendorf, Peg Carmody, and the volWlteer work of the parents. The house is licensed to .hold nineteen chlldren, varying in .ages anywhere . from elghteen months to fiv:e years of age. And the tuition is determiMd by the -block of time the children ~ay. Some stay just ttl.otnings, some include lunch, while others are there until five thirty. The three-room b.ouse is well· . equipped with a full kitchen where teachers, professors, and volunteer parent$ take tiJJ.'ns preparing lunch for the children. · . s.ince the house was given by Umon, the Center must accept children of professors and alumni and then other children. The program ha~ been very suc~~ssful. Byron Nichols, a Political Science Professor and the Registrar of the Center \volunteers a few afternoons ~ week to spend some time with his ,son.\ The Center ap- preCiates. ~ny $tudent volunteer help, and it is more than fair to say that it wiii be time well spent. students fo~r I'St'ael.ilnd.Hiltel . . ,prese!H Ch1am .. Morag, o.f . the . Schene.ctady Jewish Federat•o.n, ~ho. w•.n. sp.:ak o.n: ''Eth(opian Jewl\y: TheBlack Jewj oj Ajnca. Tuesday, January 25 at 8:00p.m. Stage ll, 3rd f·loor CarneCJie. · · F;veryone Is Welcome! . Take_ Charge At 22. In most jobs, at 22 you're near the bottom of the ladder. In the Navy, at 22 you can be a leader; After just 16 weeks of leadership training, you're an officer. You'll have the kind of job care of sophisticated equipment worth millions of dollars. It's· a bigger chal- . ·lenge and a lot more responsibility than most corpo:rations give you at 22. The rewards are bigger; too. There's · your education and training prepared you for, .and the decision-making au- thority you need to make the most of it. a comprehensive package of benefits, including special duty pay. The starting salary is $17,000-. more than most com- panies would pay you right out of college. After four years, with regular promo- tions and pay incre;tses, your salary will have increased to as much as $31,000. As a college graduate and officer candidate, your Navy training is geared to making you a leader. There is no boot camp. Instead, you receive professional training to help you build the technical and management skills you'll need as a · As a Navy officer, you grow, throug.h · Navy officer. · This training is designed to instill confidence by first- hand experience. You l~arn by doing. On your first sea tour,. you're responsible for managing the work of up to 30 men and the , new challenges, new tests of your skills, r ~V~~;;U;;T-;---- -W-;;; 1 I INFORMATION CENTER I P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015 I D I'm ready to take ¢harge. 'Thll me QJ,ore about I the Navy'~ officer programs. (jZ)G) I Nam 1· ·I Address First I Please Print~pt. # Last I ) City State Zi . I I Ag tCollege/University ) :j:Year in Co!leg +G P·\'-----~ I 4Major/Minot I I Phone Number·-;-;;-::::::r=-.-~---;;--:--;;;;-....,.-~ :I · !Area Code I Best Time to Call 'I Tftis is.~or genera! recruitiiJeht infc:>rmation. You do.not have t~ 'fur- I ·msh any of the mformntJOn requested. Of .course, the more we ' k,no~, th~ m~ne we carl h~lp·to determine-the ldnds of Navy posi· L t1on~. for wh1c.h you quahf~. . · j• ~·------..-..---_ ..... _ and new opportunities to advance your edu- catiqn, including the possibility .of attending graduate school while you're in the Navy. · Don't just take a job. Become a Navy officer, _and take charge. Even at 22. Navy·~~rs , Get BespODSlblllty fast. - - • •

lldren ~$and arid about also turns the by and very a ·n~ a with ap- ir to well ~- (JONOORDIENSIS, January SO, 1983 • . .. t -(' - . Page 7 To Be A Mailroom Throat By GREGG SHACK Staff · mirdment. Register again for the S.A.T. and check theoc•yes\ box for the student search. Tbis will insure brochures from all the biggies like Fredonia; Geneseo, Manhattanville and R.P.I. You might get a full color poster from. the University of Hawaii, wouldn't that be great! Personally, I've found the best way to receive a constant flow .of maills leak to your local recruiter you're thinking . of . joining the armed forces. Who knows, besides getting sacks of mail per day you might even receive a Na:vy frisbee or a pair of Army sweat socks (at no obligation!) .. .. If you wanta ,package, all you have to do is call horne and tell your parents y<>u're .almost out of toothpaste and they don't sell Crest in Schenectady. Next, instruct them to put it in a refrigerator box to disguise it so no one will steal it. The reasQning behind the refrigerator box is that amount of envy you receive when you acquire a package is directly proportional to the size of the box it comes in. Then upon receiving a package Slip, you too can be obnoxious and shove it into other people's faces. In order for t}lese techniques to work you can't forget the most important and basic factor-an audience! What good is getting mail if no one sees it! So never go to the :ma.ilroorn ~lone; use force when . necessary. Walking out from dinner I asked my friend where she was going. \Going to check my mail, wanna .. go?'' Why not? I figure it doesn't hurt to check. Twice to_ the right, back once, right again, turn the little knob', and viola! Wiping the c()bwebs out of my mailbo~ I see, as usua·l, nothing there. Depression set in. My friend comes over to me and boasts about her letters: two from her 'friends at home, one from her par~nts, and _another from a camper she met last summer. Then came the clincher--a package slip following the cries of \It's my third one this week!\ Then she rattles off ideas of what can be in the waiting parcel: food, .. skis, clothes? I grabbed the slip away from her and ate it. I told her I was only thinking of her, it could be a bomb. She didn't think too kindly -of this actton and we haven't spoken since the swelling went down. Life After Union But don't worry or despair because you too can become a \mailroom throat\ or just look like one.. There are many techniques you can use. I'm sure you know the old expression \If you want something done you have to do it yourself.\ Well, this __ was written in regard to receiving letters. Don't leave it up to friends and relatives to write you letters, just write-yourself some. You don't even need a stamp if you drop it in the in- tercampus mail. Nothing too long, maybe a note to remind you to call Mom and Dad to beg for money to pay for last month's phone bill or pi:lssibly you can finally take the op-- portunity to invite yourself to· a party. If you find yourself writing secret anonymous love letters I suggest you seek professional help. Another sure way of getting mail is to sign up for every club and put your name on any list that goes around. campus (be careful of small print), This way when you open your mailbox you'll get tons of junk mail. Remember, junk mail is better than no mail at all. Another good thing about this technique beside getting mail is that you can pretend you get so much mail you have to throw it away without reading it in order not to be \bothered\ with it. By DAVE FITZGERALD · Staff Many students at Union are wondering about the prospects of . finding a job after graduation. Another more remote question in the minds of many, concerns being .a big success after graduation. Everyone here knows the places great alumni like Chester Arthur, William Seward, and Squire Wemple have taken in history books, but few know what more recent graduates are doing. This article will spotlight two alumni that have put their Union education to use in a big way, in the \real\ world. Michael J. Fuchs, a former political _ science major who graduated from Union, has been appointed Executive Vice President of Programming of Home Box Office, Inc. He is .now responsible for overseeing and developing the entire programming arm of the nation's leading pay TV service. He also oversees the on-air promotion department. Michael Fuchs started at HBO in 1976 as Director of Special Programming and Sports. After just one year he was named Vice President in Charge of Specials and .Sports. Among his many duties, Fuchs was responsible for developing relatfonships with motion picture producers and distributors. Before working at HBO, Mr. Fuchs had a two-year association with the New 'York offiCe of the William Morris Agency, where he served as a - Director of Business Affairs in packaging shows for television, negotiating feature fihn.s, and arranging personal ap- pearances. He also served as an associate at two law firms in New Y()rk City. In addition to his professional development, Mr. Fuchs has contributed his services for several years as an advance man for Edward Muskie, Ted Kennedy, and Arthur Goldberg in various political campaigns. William Wallace III, an electrical engineering major of the class of 1947, has been elected Chairman of the Board of :Ebasco services, Inc., an idternatiortal •engineering and construction company. Mr. Wallace has worked his way through the company ranks starting as an Engineer, to Senior Engineer, Principal Engineer, Supervising Engineer, Project Engineer, Chief Electrical Engineer, Manager of Projects, Vice President, and finally to President and Chief Executiv~ Officer. professional engineer in twenty- two states and a member of the Institute of Electrical and Electrcmics Engineers, the New York State Society of Professional Engineers, and the NationalSociety of Professional En~e~e~rs~·------------------ Michael Fuchs and William Wallace are two of many suc- cessful Union alumni. They have been able to make their Union education work for them. They are living proof that there is hope for all of us here at Union. · A third way to always have mail is never empty your mailbox. If you get a letter (be it from yourself or an outside ·party) read it and just put it back. This way no matter how many times you check your mailbox and no matter what time it happens to be, you will never be disappointed. Anyone interested in writi.ng for THE ARTS How could we forget still another source of mail born- Contact Glenn at 6820 Start Your Weekend Right .•. -HAPPY HOUR at Phi Oe.lta Theta (above the football field) EVERY FRIDAY 6: oo to 9:-oop.m. WRECK ! !ANNOUNCES!! NEW CARS $115 WEEKLY 350Miles Free SCHENECTADY 382-81 Ll To Qualified Customers FEATURES Jean Kilbourne's ta.lk, !'The Naked Truth: Advertising's Image of Women/'' will be sponsored by Union's Speakers Forum. Kilbourne to Speak Jean Kilbourne received her Bachelor of Arts degree in· English Literature from Wellesley College. and her Doctorate in Education from Boston University. Following her graduation from Wellesley, she spent three years in Europe working for the British Broadcasting Corporation in London and for a French film company in Paris. Upon returning to the United States, she taug4t English and media studies at a high school outside of Boston. She founded and .directed an extensive film study program there (described in her master's thesis, A Practical Guide to a Student- Centered Film Study Program) and became a media consultant and lecturer ' for many organizations, school systems, and conferences. A free-lance writer and editor for many years, Dr. Kilbourne developed a program for using media to teach· writing, and designed and led other media workshops for teachers nationally. For several years she was a consultant to the Boston Public Schools for a project involving filmmaking and young black women. Presently Assistant Director of the New England Screen Education Association, she has been on the Board of Directors since 1972. From 1972 until1975 she taught interdisciplinary studies, writing, and media studies at Emerson College. In the late 1960's she became actively involved in the women's movement and began doing research on sex ·role stereotyping in the media. In 1970 she began collecting ad- vertisements and created the first version of what was to become THE NAKED TRUTH: ADVERTISING'S. IMAGE OF WOMEN, the slide presentation that ··she now presents nationally. She initiated and taught several seminars on women's studies at Emerson. In 1976 she designed and taught a program at Bradford College entitled \The 4th R: R&.entry\ for adult women returning to college. Alc,oholism is anpther of Dr. Kilbourne's major concerns. She is particularly interested in the effect of alcohol abuse on women, minorities, and young people and its relationship to self-image and self-esteem. She has created a slide presentation entitled UNDER THE IN- FLUENCE: THE PUSHING OF ALCOHOL VIA AD- VERTISING and a film, Calling the Shots: The Advertising of Alcohol. She is also the co-editor of an anthology in progress on alcoholism and literature. She has written on all of these topics· and has been interviewed by many magazines and newspapers including Time, The Christian Science Monitor, The Village Voice, and the Associated Press. She has discussed the topics on radio and television programs throughout the country in- cluding NBC's Today and CBS' Up To The Minute. She has lectured for hundreds of colleges and other organizations including the Association for Women in Psychology, the Annenberg School of Communications, Harvard Medical School, Wellesley College, International Women's Year, MIT, Texas Tech, the University of California, Kansas State, Wharton, Harvard Business School, Duke University, the U.S. Consumer Products Safety Commission, the Rhode Island Ad Club, and Federally Employed Women. In 1978 Dr. Kilbourne received a grant from the Educational Foundation of America for a study of sex role stere·otyping in television commercials. She is the co- creator of a film based on her slide presentation entitled Killing Us Softly: Advertising's Image of Women, and she is writing a book on the topic. Her dissertation is titled The Changing Images of Females and Males itt 'television Commercials: Plus Ca Change, Plus C'est La Meme Chose. She is a member of many organizations including National Organization for Women, Women Against Violence Against Women, Action for Children's Television, and the National Citizens' Committee for Broadcasting. She is an associate of the Women's Institute for Freedom of the Press and a member of the steering co~mittee of the National Center for Women in the Perforlning and Media Arts. Jeah Kilbourne will be speaking in Memorial Chapel at 8:00 p.m. on Friday, January 28. Tickets, which are on sale now at the Student Activities Desk, cost $1. In addition, twenty-five people will be able to attend a reception with Dr. Kilbourne after the show. A sign-up list is located in Mrs. Marra's office in Carnegie.

Page 8 OONOORDIENSIS, Jantt«.ry SO~ 198S Founded at Union Collt!{j( /817 --~--------- ------------ ~ Q .s: Q. . e. One Voice The Student Forum., after gentle prodding, took positive action on. the question of Rathskeller and Pub closings. Though concrete plans were not decided upon, it is good to see the Forum tackle the issue with one votce--that of the student body. Several proposals were offered and taken away by Food Service personnel in good faith. The trick will be to ensure that the potential solution. is not strangled to death by red ta,pe or delayed indefinitely. · To prevent similar problems from arising, the definitive question must be answered. Does the Food Service provide a service tor students or is it simply another business operating on-campus? We concur with IFC Representative John Wheeler tnat the Food Service must concern itself with more than just profits. ·An academic environment has unique pressures, not to mention responsibilities. One drunken student injured off-campus on a Monday night will have severe repercussions. The idea for a non-alcoholic cafe is sound and long overdue. Sophomore Representatives Midoneck and :aenson deserve a pat on the back. Not only will the .cafe provide an alternative to local drinking spots, but the dual nature of the Rathskeller and its associated difficulties will be alleviated. Perhaps profits can be fotmd elsewhere in new enterprises. Security Costs The College has never been free of crime, but the 11ecent rash of incidents is especially frightening. Breaking and entering seems to be the rage. The community must never tolerate this kind of .activity and immediate steps must be taken to check this trend. Simple carelessness opened opportunities in many cases and a heightened awareness of the situation at-hand is necessary. But, additional measures must be taken to deter future offenders for the sake of our property and. more important, our peace of mind. Though no one is willing to say so, it appears as if the thefts at the various athletic facilities are being perpetrated from the • 'inside.'' Dick Sakala should be more than just \embarrassed.\ Locks have been changed, but Mr. Sakala does not know who possesses master keys. I. D.'s al'!e inspected, but at any given time one can. me.et up with the Nisk~yuna football squad prowling the halls. Something needs . to be done. To prevent crimes on the grounds, no one has suggested beefing up patrols and increasing the manpower of our Security forces. A highly visible force is a simple deterrent. Improved lighting at key spots is a definite must. We do not need to add assault to our crime blotter. One can argue that all costs money, but is fear worth the savings? LETTERS Lighting .Needed. To the Editor: This letter is in reference to Union's chronic problem of poor campus lighting. For the past three years we have seen .nothing done to improve or increase the .amount of lighting · on this campus. Walking from the library or the .computer center back te the dorms, one encounters poorly lit pa~s in iront of the library and neat the Nott Memorial. There is no excu8e for this condition. It is true that Security can drive students from the library or the computer center to thefr dorms, however, n<Jt only is that a waste of time and energy for both Security ~nd the .students, but the problem of getting t<J the · road stUl e:!dsts! · When will Union learn tbat better lighting is not a privilege but a necessity? . Sincerely Gail .Abraham '84 Naomi Blank '84 · What The Draft Means To You By ROBERTA RUBiNSTEIN Dr·aft Regfstr.aUon: Requiring male$ over the .age of eighteen to inform the govern- ment that they are available to \serve\ their country- Requiring males who have ·decidedly been told they are. not old enough to handle liquor., that they are certainly old enough to die for their country, to kill for their country. And what about females? Apparently, .females will never be old enough to· fight wars. Nevertheless, this is not to say the issue of Draft Registration is nc.>t important to womankind as well. It is an issue which should be a concern to all of us. At least a few members of the Union Conununity are aware of the significance of the issue..at hand. Thomas Frye, Marcia Lifshitz, Jon Titus, Andy Wellen and Professor Martha Huggins have put together a speaking series entitled, \What Students Should Know About Draft Registration.\ The first in the series was last Thursday evening, with speakers Dave Miller of the Knolls Action Project and Van Zwisohn, A. J. Mustie Peace Foundation and veteran dra.ft resister. The informal discussion gave those who attended a better un- derstanding of the implications of Draft Registration iD. the 1980's and explained what the alternatives are for people who do nQ.t wish to register. As it stands now, any male who is over eighteen and has· not yet registered may, on the one hand, slip by the system un- noticed. On the other hand, if you have no intention of ever registering, the government has reserved the right to penalize you to a maximwn of five years in prison or . ten_.. thousand dollars. (Though iris important to note that no one has yet received the maximum penalty.) Some may feel resisting registration is not worth the possible risks. The impassive youth of today, who may be fighting tomorrow's war, remain relatively apathetic tG Draft Registration. Whether this is because many feel registration is of little consequence to their lives, or perhaps because they feel it is their duty to fight for their country, or simply because they feel they must abide by whatever laws our ''Representative\ Government has set up, it is not clear. Whaf is clear is that the Draft Registration has been made a legal obligation by the United States Government, irrespective of the feelings of those who are being compelled to give their names and social security numbers at . the local Post Office. A violation of priva·cy, perhaps? Uncon- stitutional? Immoral? Pragmatic? Strategic? Necessary? Vital? All of these are 1 questions concerning Draft Registration, and they should be questions concerning each of us as well. Have you registered? Do you intend to? What can happen to you .if you d<J not? Approximately four hundred thousand men have not yet ·registered. Of these, thirteen have been indicted for failure to do so; None are presently . serving jail sentenees; All have publicized their decision to resist registration. In the case of one resister, David Wayte of California, theSelectiveService was charged wit·h discriminating against resisters who went public With their refusals. The court decided in favor of Wayte and the case was dismissed. In the case of Ben Sasway, the courts were not quite as understanding. Sasway received the maximum penalty for resisting~ date, a two-and- one-half year sentence. He is ·a political resister, and similar to those who refUse to register for religious reasons, Sasway presented a clear threat to the legitimacy of Draft Registration. Sasway and others are now in the process- of appealing their sentences, and it is not certain what the out- conies will be. There are other resisters as well: People who feel Draft Registration is a violation, People who object to being forced to · make themselves available for a war they may not believe in.. There are ''conseientious objectors\ who may register because they are legally obliged to, _ but wish to make it dear that they do not wish to take part in warfare of . any kind. In the same light there .are .those individualS who find it abhorrent that anyone might not want to \Be all that they can be.'' Whatever decision you have made or are considering, it . is important that you are in- formed. The January Series on Students and the !>raft Registration is designed to make inf()]:mati()n available to you:. This is not .an issue wl;lich should be overlooked. There are three· more discussions scheduled in the Series: Thursday- January 20, Thur- sday'- January 27 and Thursday- February 3. Allle~ures begin at 7:30 and are held in Strauss Lounge. You still have some options open to you concerning Draft Registration, you might as well begin exploring them. Editors .. in-Chief Managing Editor News Editors Editorial Page Editor Features Editors Arts Editors Campus Page Editor Sports Editors Layout Advisor Subscription Editor Photo Editor Associate Photo Editor Sports Photo Ecljtor Political Cartoonist A.J. Brodsky, DiannePavacic Julianne AbeJman Marcy Burstiner, Doug Landon ·D.C.Owens Norman Birnbach, Donna Getson Glenn Krutoff, Rob~J.\U\ Rl,Jbinstein . Cindy J. Tenner Drew Hurley, Rick Sapir Peter Mohr Gregg Shack Patricia E. Sacks Mary PhUlips Robert Tang David Neiblum Staff Debbie Albert, Mike.Anzenberger,. Jan Baran, Jay Baruch, Patty Gallahan, Scott Collins, Michael Devito, Kathy Dutiy, Tim Enswiler, David Fitzgerald·, Cathy Gifford, Lynn Hano, Kathy Keaveney, Ted Kendri$, Robin King, SusanKone, Tracy LaMarca, Rebecca Lee, Scott McGraw, Pam Meyer, Tom Miller, David Murray, Matt Nankin, Michelle Novelle, Joan O'Connor, Jennifer Paston, Nancy Pettinella, SteffiPropos, Gayle Rosenfeld, Amy Schachter, Franklin Schneider, Laura Shapiro, · Gregg Shack, YvetteSari Sheer, Susan Singer, Gayle Stein, Judie Steinhardt, Bob Van Veris, Peter Weishart, ShetryWeitzen, Scott Wyk;off, Photo Staff Dave Zuckerberg Peter Clouse, Brian.Bilsback, Russ Fein, Jon Heimer, Patil Klein, Chris Lacy, Susan Mettler, Sue Serenska, Gregg Shack CONCORDIENS~ is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall~. Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna PUblications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 51)3-7161. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as ifljr:sf. class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States . CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to. the College Press Service (CPS), and ·utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). - Office Telephone ~.37~155 - - r ' An ou1 R~ ,pa du ar cri fot bo ?12 we co pu 0\'1 in til De J)l fo fr' Ul cc di hi sc w p] aj C( Cl SC a c w n a v 1

- ...... ~s tts, the vUl ing a ely '84 '84 L m, ing res .ay . .re ·ho tre to lOt of rht ho ne tat re is n- m ft to to :h ·e lS r- :r- 11 IS 1e g QONOORDIEN81S) Jan,v.ary BO, 1983 Page 9 News From washington \ By .JA'CK. ANDERSON and JOE SPEAR _.. WASHINGTON~Many Artlericans are understandably outraged that J;he House of Represe:ittati,.,.es voted itself a paY raise. in l~st year's lame- , duck session. E-ditorial writers around the country have criticized the House members for giving themselVes a hefty boost in salary while more than 1 12 million American's are out of work. \ \ · · There were a few courageous congressn'len Wbo voted against putting more money in their own poe:kets:whilethe.c_ountcy is in the midst .of the worst hard ames since the Great Depression. One of th~m was Dale .Kildee, a 'Democrat and former big'h·s~hool teacher from ,Flint, Mich. Michigan has the high_est unemployment rate in the country, and Kildee apparently didn 'tthink it wasdeeenfto vote himself a $9,000 .pay rafse wP,en so many of his constituents were standing in the unem• ployment lines. So he voted against the salary boost. The retribu'til>n from his colle~gues was swift. As · a fourth-term congressman, Kildee had served on the Small Business and Labor and Education Committees, and he thought he was entitled to move up to a more influential poSition. He asked for a seat on the. House Ways and Means Committee-- the panel that handles all tax legislation. A congressman Who serves on Ways .and Means has clout. Our sources .say Kildee was all set to .get the Ways and Means as$ignment. It was in the bpg.. Then he defied the leadership and voted against the PaY raise. The Demp<!ratic leader~ were angry at Kildee because he could have voted for the salary hike without risk. He was from a \safeH . district and was certain to be re-elected. So the lea<;iers were counting on him to Y-Ote for the controversial pay raise. But Kildee voted his con- science, and the leaders tt1rned down his request for the Ways and Means assignment. Qur sources-Say it was pure punish- ment for his vote against .the pay raise. · LABOR'S HIGH FLIERS: Despite the economic .hard tittles, Sl;)me union officials are living like ~orporate fatcats, with money to bunn. Some even have private planes to ferry them around the country. Take BiRWynn, for example. He is the head of the United Food and Comniercial Workers Union. The union bought him a private. plane two-and-a..,half years ago. He needed it,. he. told our reporters, to reach small, out-of-the•way towns. The Teamsters Union has two private planes~- one .for Presidl;lnt . Roy Williams, the other for Secretary~Treasurer Ray Schoessling. A union spokesman ~aid it saves time and money for the organization's leaders to fly in private planes . rather than commercial airliners. At least two other union pr~sidents reportedly have private planes. One is Ed Hanley of the Hotel and RestaurantWorkersUnion. The other is Bob Georgine of the A:FL-CIO building ' trades department. ThiS month, when the weather is coldest in Wa·shington, Georgine traveled to sunpy Florida. DEBT FUND: Yott'll find something new on your inco~ui tax: forms this year .. a box that will permlt you to contribute to the nation's debt fund. it will give you a tax~eductible op- portunity to h~lp reduce America's $1.2 trillion debt. Taxpayers have contributed more than $5 mUlion to the debt fund over the past 20 years, but this is the first time the Internal Revenue Service has used an easy, check•off system. There is another fund that is used to reduce the national debt. It's called the \conscience fund'' by insiders and its donations come from citizens who feel guilty at having cheated Uncle Sam at some point in their lives, · The fund has accepted con- tributions since 1811, but only about $4.5 million has been collected over the years. The gifts to this fund are not tax deductible. · ELECTION SCHEDULE FOR FRESHMAN. REPRESENTATIVE · POS:ITIO:NS I THURSDAY, JAN. 20 FRIDAY, JAN. ~1 TUESpAY, JAN. 25 • P~titions due by 3 p.m. at Student Activities Office • l:lections, 2nd .floor Carnegie 9:00- 4; 30 •· Run-Offs 9:00-4:30 (if necessary) Co:rnmentaries do not necessarily repres~nt the views of the Editorial Board of Concordiensis. COMMENTARIES /_A Union of People? I By MATI'NANKIN The fobowblg editorial was broadcast last Sunday evening. on the &:15 WRlfC news. It is prblted here In its entirety. First of all, let me begin by saying that I don't claim to be an actual film r.eviewer and I have· no intention of going, to work f.or the Arts page. However, vvhen it comes to the 18-mintJte epic \A Union of - People'' . (shown regularly during Homecoming, Parents Weekend, and Commencement) I feel I know as much as anyone else to form a knowledgable critiqu~ of the film . ''A Union of People'' is a fast- paced little flick that sup- pc;>sedly educates those unm . familiar with this school and reorientates alumni who may have lost ties to their abna ·mater. ·The movie haS won many awards and I cannot argue with the fact that its scenic views of the school, the emphasis on history · and tradition, and its \personal touch\ in letting students and faculty tell their own story all make for excellent viewing. In short, ·\A Union.of People\ does an excellent job of packaging and selling Union College. However, my argument here is that th~ film is, not an accurate representation of life at this school and often sacrifies the ideal of what the filmma~ers ·would like to see for the reality t}lat actually exists. For pur- . poses of clarity, I will base my argument around three points: I. Academics - Although \A Union of People\ has more than enough time to Sit in on biology, chemistry, and engineering classes (and talk to faculty of these departments), such subjects as history and political science are panned over in that only quick shots of the professors and their classes are shown. At no point does the narrator ever allow us to stop and listen to what is going on within the classroom. Students and faculty in the humanities and fine arts were con• spicuously absent throughout the film. When a professor in the modern languages depart~ ment was finally shown, it was only in relation to what he was doing to help a chemistry student. As for the Term Abroad program, it was never even mentioned. Such a representation is not truly in- dicative of a liberal arts school with engineering, but rather an engineering and science school with liberal arts! U. Student Life - To be truth- ful, I greatly enjoyed sitting in on a Sigma Chi meal and house meet just as I'm sure everyone else did. However, at no time was either a dorm meeting or an actual dorm building< except for a quick shot of West) ever shown. With the exception of a glilnpse of a lonely student studying late at night, there is no evidence that the film~ makers ever even entered a residence hall. Although I certainly wouldn't expect them to show the inside of a five-man suite or the outside of Hickok House, certainly some attempt at showing dorm life (including a look at our dining halls) coyld have been made. . III. Extracur.rlcnlar Activities ·- With the possible exception of curling, all major sports on this campus were shown until one was finally given the impression that professional football and hockey scouts regularly search the Union grounds for prospective players and that one should expect to see the school teams on national TV Saturday afternoons. Yes, a Glee Club rehearsal was shown, but this was only to \use\ them in singing the school song as a lead-in for a shot of football players running nowhere along the sidelines. With the possible exception of a quick look in the Concordiensis office, all of the many groups and organizations on campus were totally ignored throughout the film. The question arises, at least in my own mind, as to why I am so dissatisfied with a film that makes for excellent viewing and is so much fun to watch. Personally, I have always considered Union to be a very special place- far unlike any other school. However, the emphasis in the film on science and engineering, \big time\ sports, and fraternities, takes away from the uniqueness of Union and places it with other schools whose reputation is not as great, whose faculty is not as renowned, and whose students are not as motivated .. Somewhere alorig the way, \A Union of People\ has missed the pulse behind the heart that is Union College. The real losers in this situation are not those who are already here and know the true situation, but outsiders who will see the fihn and falSely believe that it is a true representation of the school. -This is Matt Nankin with one man's opinion. DANCING in the PUB 9-1 Thursday come to the ECOR ,HOP

·' ' ;. ' ';:'J Page 10 OONOORDIENSIS, cl.dnuary SO, 1983 . , , . I - • THE ARTS ' / ; / Scottish Orchest,ra Adventures At The Egg Albany-The furry folk of be able to save stately TO.ad 10 a.m., January 28, as well as meadow and stream, who follow Hall from the sneaky evil of the morning .performances January the seasons by the sounds of the Chief Weasel and his gang .of 31 and February 2 through 4 are to Perform The Scottish Chamber Orchestra with Jaime Laredo, conductor and violin sol()ist, will present a concert of Mozart music at Union· College Tuesday, J·anuary 25. The program will begin. at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Included in the evening's selections will be Mozart's Symphony No.1 in E flat major; K. 16; Concerto No~ 4 in D major, K. 218; Rondo in C major, K. 373; and Symphony No. 29 in A major, K. 201. The concert is part of the Schenectady Museum and Union College Concert Series. Founded in 1974 as Scotland's first ptofessional c.hainber orchestra, the SCO has toured the entire length of the Scottish mainland and the Western Isles, and has appeared in the United States, France, Poland, Hungary, and Rumania. Laredo is the winner of the coveted Queen Elizabeth of Belgiwn 4 _ wm.d in the .willows, will bring bullies? virtually sold out. 'Tickets are competition, and has appearea th~tr charmmg tal~ to the Egg Like the stories of Alice in still available for opening day, with major orchestras this mo~th. To ~gm the second Wonderland (1865). and the Sunday, January 30 at .2 p.m., throughout the world. He ha1f ?f its premter~ season, the . Wizard .of Oz (1900), Grahame's and for evening performances directs the popular New York Empire ~tate Instl.tute .for the Wind ill the Willows. (1908) at 8 p.m., Friday and Saturday, \Y'' Chamber Music Series, Perf.ormmg Arts. wtll present a began as an unwritten series of February 4 and 5. and has played concerts from. mustcal a~aptatlon of Kenneth adventures told to a favored Tickets are available at the Carnegie Hall to the Royal Grahame s beloved story child (his son Alistair). When Community Box Officeor at the Albert Hall in London. Jan~ary 28 through February 5. the story was printed, it soon Egg. box office, (518) 473-3750, The New York Times has Directed by.. Edmund became a children's favorite (The. TTY number is 474-6143.) called the ensemble ''splendid.\ Waterstreet from the National and was first adapted for the Prices are$5.00 for adults, $3;00 The Glasgow Herald stated, Theatre o~ the J?eaf, members stage (in. 1932) by A. A. Milne, for children; students and \The orchestra played with so of ESl!? A s resident company the author of Winnie the Pooh senior citizeens. much sensitive intelligence and Pl!lY . kmdly !Vf.ol.e and. clever stories. The staging with music The performance Saturday, polish that r found myself R1yer: Rat, . Jommg. wiSe a~d by Claire Strauch and book and February 5 will be interpreted feeling rather proud for pr':flCipl~d Bad~er to save their lyrics by John Jakes was first for the hearing impaired. For Scotland.\ v~mglor1ous friend Toad from produced in 1912. other special•needs services, Tickets are. available from his self-destrzuctive. mania for · The preview performance at contact the Egg box office. ~~~·~~~ h•s•t•a•~•o•m•o•~•k•s•.•W•ill•llije~y~ai~i 0 •••••••••••••••••••••••• 7890) and Community Box 1 ::~~~£t~~~:. RAMSEY LEWIS The concert series' next · ·· · · · · scheduled performance, Juliana Markova on Feb. 8, has been cancelled, to be replaced by the Trio D. Milano on Monday, Feb. 14. ADMINISTRATIVE and ENGINEERING SYSTEMS COLLOQUIUM .-: .. Tickets: $10.00 & $·8.00 Senior Citizens & Students: $8.50 & $6.50 ''.Managers- Do You Know How Best Use Your Lawyers?\ WILLIAM PE RLSTE I:N Partner Wilmer, Cutler and Pickering Washington, D.C. ~~~~;i-~Jailn •. ~2()--,-~3j·=j4Siij~5: 00 p.m. Bailey!!IH•a•ll-- Tickets are available at all Community r R 0 ~ ~ A. 1/ I \ (, ~ B A \ ~ Box Offices and the Music Hall Offices 33 Second MUSIC HALL Street. Troy· Phone_ (518) 273-0038. · • SECON.D &.. STATE STREETS. TROY N.Y. $1,000 WINNERS 1. ZETA BETA TAU 2. DELTA UPSILON 3. CHI PSI 1 $500 ·w1NNERS 4. PSI UPSILON 5. SIGMA CHI 6. DELTA DELTA DELTA SB. •• - . •

.i as h4are are day, , p.-m., urday, at the the -6143.) $3;00 and preted For Page 11 THE ARTS On· Gestures ~y DEBBIE ALBERT and STEFFI PROPOS The UnionArts Department is currently sponsoring an exhibit, ••Gestures'', which displays photographs by Bonnie Rosenberg. :Bonnie is a junior, and a psychplogy and .art major. In her ·sophomore year, Bonnie wanted to learn about the technical aspects of photography, and enrolled in Photography I. While in the course, Boilllie discovered she had a hidden talent f()r photography. She learned that althOugh she is ''unable to draw a stick figure;\ she ls \able to artistically express herself through photography.\ here at Union. During this year, Bonnie is involved in an Independent ~tudy Program. This program mcludes her current exhibit as well as organizing others of her own. In addition, she serves as .a teacher's aide in Photography 1. At the present time, Bonnie's exhibit, ''Gestures'', is on display in the Arts building. Her photographic assignment was to elq)lore the meaning of the word, gesture, through photography. The gestures were not restricted to human's alone. The exhibit itself in• eludes .Bonni~'s specU.l photo taken ~n Matne, as well as recent .pi~tures taken mainly in Ne~ York City, Boilllie, herself, believes that the photograph of two ladies smol.dng outside of a caf~ is her best. However, she believes that photographs of \ - . .,.~ A sampling of :Rosenberg's \Gestures 11 In Rehearsal: To · continue }ler study of photography, she enrolled in more advanced courses. She took a physics course dealing with photography .in order to broaden her technical knowledge~· She also ·took Photography 2. As her knowledge grew, ner interest in photography intensified. In the slUiliilef preceeding her junior year, Bon11ie attended a sumw mer .photography workshop in Brockport, Maine. This -was an intensive program where she was able to do ~n in-depth study of the creative· aspects of photography. Bonnie's su:tnmer in Maine prompted her to pursue photography as a career - gestures between mother.. and child, and. father and child display the strongest gestures. Bonnie enjoys. photographing landscapes, and people, but she finds. it difficult to get close to strangers. Although Bonnie finds that aspect difficult, it s~ems that it has been no ob- stacle in her work. Bonnie. c~ntinues to photograph and will· hopefully prepare another eilibit in the spring .. In additiQn to her .exceptional talent in photography, Bonnie has also · designed the Q.dvert!sing poster for her exhibit. At present, Bonnie Rosenberg is enjoying much deserved praise for- her exhibit, which wlll run through -February 4th. ~our Town By JENNIFER PASTON the realistic theater, will be We are all part of Our ToWJl. performed February 24, 25, 26 Our Town isn't ju8t Grover andMarchl, 2, 3, 4, 5 at the Nott Corners, N.H., the location of Memorial Theater• One may Thornton Wilder's play, but ask what Union College rather ametaphor for the belifs students will bring to a play and values of the people of the written for and usually per- United States. Our Town, formed l;>y middle-aged people. therefme,. is the American These students are at the age Theater. Wilder asks us to remember. Wilder's brilliant work, which Real experience therefore can choice. ~ · takes us beyond the trappings of be used, though Wilder does not ··· ~~ ~ L~ atten].pt to create real life in his -- Jrt-' · ·~ ,_,.- ...,l~gA: •~ I·~~~~~~ play. ei€C()~cdPt;MPOI\IU. M ! ~~.:,o~.~ .. !ll;.s~ In terms of the photography program at .Union, ·one is not able to major in photography alone. One m\)st be an Arts ma)or. · Bonnie personally speaks highly of the program ?JJ1 . . . part, will be played by Bambi 109 <.2anal ~quare-. nroadway, ~c;h'dy. Phone: 374-4332 t-C:O~u~t~g~}. rrlt~t~~~h~!b!~~ • PI-ZZA N.~.S Style SiciU~an Styae (Ueepdish) played by women before. In · . • 8 ' cut 12, cut 24\ cut addition, the Stage Manager Cheese 4..25 5.00 8.50 has some of the most sensitive Ex. Cheese 5.25 6.00 10.00 · lines in the play; words that Sau$age . 5~25 6.00 10;00. personify a woman's per- M ushroo~ 5.25 6.00 1 0.00 ception. Pepp~rom 5.25 6.00 . 1 O.OO Professor Barry K. Smith will Green Peppers 5.~5 6 .oo 1 o,oo direct the production. Charles Me~ tballs 5.25 6 _ 00 1 O.OO Steckler and Daro Beninati will Omons . 5.25 6~00 10.00 Ancpovtes 5.25- 6.00. 1 0~00 Any A.d.d ltent . .75 1.00 1.50 Papa Cicco\s Deluxe 9,25 (0.95 15.00 WHITE PIZZA THE SHRIM_P ,_1HEWHITE do set and light design respectively. The part of Mrs. Gibb will be played by Anna Tucker, Doc Gibb- Tom Rice. Mr. and Mrs. Webb Will be played by Ken Altman and Diane Sadak. George Gibbs will be played by Adam Storke and Emily Webb by Jean Carney. The rest of the cast includes: Joel· Beckerman, Russell Silverman, Chris Lacy, Jon Skinner, Scott Bloom Jim Motolanez,. Jodi Cohen, 'Lenny Katz; Kathy Healy, Irene Fassler, LOra Nelson, Sally Carey, LOren Webber, Cheryl Tyler, Alex Atrubin. In six weeks we will see these students demonstrate what makes the Gibbs', the Webbs the people of Our ToWn (or ()f Anytown) hliinan. Anyone interested in working setS, lights, props, costwnes etc., may sign up in the gree~ room at the Nott. • • • Coming Soon • • • OUR SPECIALTY SCAMPI ' Ci.AM SAUCE -Try One Today - · PIZZA PIZZA Pizza with no sauce Sprinkled with Olive Oil and freth Garlic with mounds of MozzareiJ·a cheese Shrimp and Garlic with Olive Oil and 'Moz~atella cheese Pizza with White Clam Sauce •nd Garlic with Mozzarella chee.e Thursday, February lOth At 8 p.m. L~r. 4.50 L1. 6,75 8 cut 6:00 Sicilli<m 12 cut 5.25 Sicillian 12 cut 7.50 12 cut 6. 75 24 cut 8.75 Z4 cut 10.50 24 cut 9.75 • IT ALlAN SANDWICHES • .~ • ..,at ball__-. Meatball Parmiriana . Sausage , ~u~.ilge Par!Uigiana S.uaare & PepP4-rs Ecc Plant Parmigiana 2.10 Steak .2.50 2.50 Salami ~~ Provalone 2.50 2.10 ·Prosciotto & Provalone 2.95 · 2:50 Sondwic'hes with p!!ppers 20' extra 2.35 Sandwiches with Ml.ishrooms ~0' extra ·2.60 Sandwiches with Oniona I 0' extra Italian Roasted Peppen Z5i~xi'r• . • SP~CIAL T,IES .• .· . ~ Calzone . ) ~~~ l'•'\'\' tou.d •\\ R•; ou·• h••... 'Plllin 2.25 Ham l-.65 · ) \\\\\\•. h•• .• Sausaee 2.65 Prosciotto :t.95 :---------.----F1fEEMERCHAf.[DfS\E-----~-----l I Every tJr~'le you .get a pizza 0~ sandWIChes varJ'ued ~t more than I I $4.00 you w~l receove a epupon • save theln for Free MercllandJse. I . Proctor's Theatre Tickets are only $4.00 for students ' Available at the Carnegie Box Office (General Public $8.00) Thurs., Jan .. 20th 8:45 and 10:45 p.m. ·1 15 Coupons l8G:ut Free (cheese only) I : ·-.20 Coupons 1.12 cut Free (cheese only) I 1 25 Coupons 1 24cut Free (llragredient) 1 · 1st ACT: Mari$a Palsits 1 50 Coupons . 112 keg of beer {3 days notice) l ~- : 109 Coupons Pizza Patty for 25 people with beer at your 1- · L----------------- dorm or fr_aternlty (2 days notice) l . · wE oELIVER ·oN-CAMPUi--PH-oN-~374-433-i-· ~ . . . and Susan Lomega 2nd ACT: The Nutmegs M.C.: Rich Mintz Beer and Wine with Proper J.D. Cheese and Crackers SOt Tickets at Carnegie Hall-$1. 50 - - 0 .... 0 s; a. en ... Q) ..0 c Q) <I) 0 \ ai '·.

'·: . ·, • Page 12 OONOORDIENSIS) January !0~ 1983 .. CAMPUS NEWS INTERNSHIPS Each semester more than 250 students from colleges and universities across the country come to Washington, D.C. to work. as interns under the auspices of the Washington Center. The Internship Program, open to juniors and seniors in all academic majors, includes: placement.; orientation, counseling, supervision, and evaluation of intern progress; academic seminars and .group discussions with other interns; guest lectures; social and cultural events with other in- terns; and centrally-located housing. The application deadline for the 1983 Spring Quarter Internship Program is January · 15, 1983; for the 1983 Summer Term, March 1, 1983; for the 1983 Fall Semester, April 15, 1983. For an application and more program information, contact your local campus liaison or write-call: The Internship Program, The Washington Center, 1705 DeSales Street, N. W ., Washington, D~ C. 20036, 202-659- 8510. The French Embassy is of- fering study grants for students with bachelor's degrees who would like to study in a French engineering school. The grants are available for 1983-84. Proficiency requirements in French must be met. Applications must be field by March l. Tltey can be obtained by writing to: Mission Scien- tifique del' Ambass~de de France, 20111 Street, NW, Suite 500, Washington, D.C. 20006, HELP WANTED - Cashier & Sales & Yard. Previous lumber and-or retail experience. Work by . them- selves or as a team. 16-25 hours weekly-2 nights. Grossman's, E~ie Blvd., 374-8445. Babysitting--Occasional evenings-$2-hr., transportation provided. 2 well-behaved kids, ages 7 & 10. Please call372-8612. Part time person for personal computer sales and general retan duties. Prefer related experience in personal-..com- puters--computer science gr engineering discipline. 10-20 hours a week, flexible. Starting date: As soon as possible. Video Connection, Canal Square, Schenectady, NY, 382-3896. Babysitter for 7 year old boy. Could have the following op- tions: Stay nights in exchange for room and board, 10:30-7:30. Live in person in exchange for room & board. Call for further detaHs 372-7167. Niskayuna. Furniture store needs strong .person to do work pertaining to furniture store:, deliv.ering, window changing, moving furniture, etc. Need someone to drive van. Ras Furniture Co., 873 Eastern Ave., Schenectady, NY, 374-7785. Need instructors for an after- school activity program tO; be held from 3-4 p.m. on Wed- nesdays ·and Thursdays in March and ~pril. Languages, Sciences, Dancing, Gym- nastics, Crafts (10 child limit per class). $60.00 ($10.00 an hour, one hour a week for six weeks). At the Elmer Avenue School. Call Mrs. Donna Fairlee at 377-1245. VOLUNTEERS For information on Volun- teering, contact the Career Center. Instructor: Work with 8 or 10 girls for 1 hour once a week for 8 weeks. Afternoon classes which include girls in grades K~ begin at 3:30p.m. Evening classes for girls in grades 6 and up begin at 6:30 p.m. at the Schenectady Girls Club. Starting the week of 1-17-83. Call Marjorie Reynolds (1-5 p.m.) 374-9800. Instructors are needed for the following classes: Calligraphy, Aerobics, Gymnastics, Weight . Lifting, Leathercraft, Simple Crafts, Drama, Large Muscle Games, Ceramics, Flower Making, Macrame, Knitting ~ and Crocheting, Self Development-Assertiveness Training, . Jewelry Making, Liquid Embroidery. The New York Hospital- / Cornell Medical Center, Westchester Division Swnmer Pre-Career Volunteer Program is designed to add to our staff a ~.---------------------------------~ ~ tiEOit(JE MO~ Hill. f\\'· KOhl\ \llllt\1~ TH~ •OIUJ)',(<:OIUJI~L TOGW\ liAMYIII,lH HlKr · GlE.\\ CIOS£ j()lll UTIIGO~. 1 ~,. .... ~...,-.,pn~tiiW.l.EY· \'~ .. ~n\~TESJOI ~ .. ·w\\;'~,. ~HI\ IH\J\t, ,.,...woe .. ~;LOMt,f. RO\ tfiU ...,.ltOBERT t CIA'iiOPD i~<r«1<4'- GEOM6~ llO\ 1114 0 !$ta1tbt10t:t!IIDfiii\£ ,,. ....... ·N;~·~·\':~~C) JANUARY25 7:30 and 10:00 ss 016 ADMISSION $1.00 group of students who are seriously consiq_ering careers in the mental .health field; and who will through our Volunteer Department be eXposed over an eight week; period to tne many disciplines of a mental hospital. The ei:ght week program commencing in June will devote the first week to orientating and training. During this time, the students will be given their assignments. In the past, assignments have included patient halls, Children's Ser- vice, Recreational Therapy, Physical Therapy, Music Therapy, Behavioral Research Lab, etc. The students' work schedule will be Monday through Friday, usually 8 a.m.-4 p.m. For further information, please write Mrs. Ann W. Eisner, Director of Volunteers, The New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, Westchester Division, 21 Bloomingdale Rd., White Plains, NY 10605. Needed: Volunteerwhose job will be: 1. Listening to cassette tapes to determine sound quality. 2. Shelving books and shelf reading. 3. Repairing picture frames, repairing headphones. 4. Keeping vocational file in order. 5. Keeping Young Adult collection up to date. At Schenectady County Public Library Call Naomi Bristol, 382-3500. Typing & Clerical, entering materials . into computer. Telephone interviewers at Jewish Federation of Greater Schenectady. Call Bertha Berman, 393-1136. Needed: Friendly vjsitor. , Responsible for visiting a homebound senior · citizen at least one hour a week. Call Jody Weiner, 372-3395. Tues., 9-5; Thurs., 3-5. Persons interested in working wi•h developmentally disabled adults1n supervised community residences will view a slide presentation and receive an orientation into the agency's programs and services. Living Resources Corporation of 44 Broadway is holding an Open House at their 834 Emmett Street, Schenectady Residence on Jan. 30, from 12 p.m.-3 p.m. COME PA.RTY WITH B.L.A.S. at ''The WEABO. Dance'' SATURDAY 9:00P.M. in the Alumn·i Gym . ADM.ISSION $2.50 Pu,rchase Tickets at Carnegie Box. Office I. D. REQUIRED - CLUB NEWS Women's Network Film, 8-11 p.m. in Strauss Lounge, Friday, Jan. 21. · Hillel Cabaret in the Cabaret Room, 8 p.m., Saturday, Jan. 22. ' . B.L.A.S. party in AlUIIUii Gym. 'l'ickets are $2.50 for non- members, each member is entitled to onefree ticket, 9 p;tn. to 2 a.m., Saturday, Jan .. 22. Women's Glee Club Concert (tentative) 8 p:m. in M~morial Chapel, Sat., Jan. 22. (Possibly to be held on Sunday, Jan. 23 at 4 p.m.) There will be a Hebrew speaking table in the PUb eve~y Thursday at 12:30. Look for the sign! Coffeehouse Ogranizational Mtg.-For all those interested in some aspect of Coffeehouse:. Waitressing, etc. Tues., Jan. 25, 4:30 p.m., Cabaret Rir1. For more Info ca:U: 6425. SPEAKERS Mr. WUUam J. Perlstein, Partner, Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering, Washington, D.C. \How Best to Use Your Lawyers,\ Thurs .. , Jan. 20, 3:45 p.m., Rm. 207, Bailey Hall, Union College. · MISCELLANEOUS Special Collections in Schaffer Library has reopened after the completion of the installation of climate control equipment. Special Collections ' - is open ~onday, Tu'esday, Thursday, and Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Positions are available for this year's Orientation Com- mittee. Get Involved. Learn more about Union and you. Applications are available in the Student Acti.vities Office. Applications are due 2-1.83. Women's Commission Lunch, 12.;1: 45 p.m. in the Banquet Room, Turs., Jan. 25. Museum.:College Concert- Jaime Laredo and. Scottish Chamber Orchestra, 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. 'Tickets are $4 for Union students with ID, available .at ticket booth. Concert will be held on Tues., Jan. 25. IJ;ockey Game at ·Achilles Rink--JV vs~ Northwood at 3 ·p.m., Varsity vs. Williams at 8 p.m. on Saturday, Jan. 22. living Resources Corporation -is offering a free 30 hour training seminar for people interested in working with developmentally disabled residents of the community .. Structured workshops . will include training in program planning, cotnmunication skills, behavior management · and modification, teaching. fun- damentals of daily living skills and enhancing self esteem of developmentally disabled in- dividuals. The 3-day seminar will take place at 1026 New Loudon Road in Colonie on Jan. 31, Feb.l and Feb. 2. For more info. call Joan Werner, 436.0731 .. A $1,000 grand prize will be awarded in the }!:ighth Annual Poetry Competition sponsored by World of Poetry, a quarterly Continued on page 13 . MOUNTEBANKS ' MEETING FRIDAY, JANUARY 21 4:30p.m. in the Nott Plans for this term's exciting projects will be discussed - .EVERYONE IS WELCOME -WE DELIVER- 374-1888 ·.1····· •J•·WRUC [ ) 90.9 1m • stereo SPECIAL PROGRAMS: 1. WRUC SPORTSLINE-Interviews, news, students' opinions, Thursday nights, 11:30-12:00 2. GANG OF FOUR CONCERT---Wednesday, 9:00p.m. 3. NEWSWEEK FM-ihe latest news, in music, movies, books and other contemporary subjects. Friday, 3:30·4:30 p.m. ONLY ON WR.UC-Your Alternative Radio Station ~ - • ·• c II s f

- = - - - ;day, 18:30 ~ for Com. ..earn you. le in ffice. ~. lUlch, tquet :!ert- ttish n. in ~ ate 1 ID, )Oth. 'ues., niles ~t 3 at 8 :ttion hour lople with !>led y,, will :ram tills, and fun- kills n of in· take toad and roan l be ned 13 OONOOR[}IENBIS, January SO, 1983 ·page 13 MISCELLANEOUS continued from page 12 newsletter for poets. Poems ofall styles and on any subject are eligible to compete for the grand prize Qr for 99 other cash or merchandise awards,. totaling over $10,000. Rules and official entry fo:rms are available from the World of Poetry, ... 243~ Stockton Blv<l., Dept. G, Sacramento, California. The Leukemia Soc.iety of America, Inc., Upstate New York Chapter, announces its sev.enth annual radiothon, titled \Lick Leukemia\ on Feb. 19, 1983 at the Latham: Circle Mall. W ABY 1400 AM Will hQst the event from 9:30 a.m. until 9:30 p.m. The funds ·raised from the ra(\i.othon will aid researchers in their battle to find the causes of and means to cure the disease. For more information on the Leukemia Society, call 438-3583 or write to Executive Park East, Albany, NY 12203, The lounges in Carnegie Hall are avaliable as student study areas until 12 midnight each night. These rooms' include Strauss Lounge, Conference Room A and Fourth Floor Lounge, when these rooms are not in use. A key to these rooms is available at the Ticket Booth. PERSONALS Jackie, Croeder wasn't on our list. \Vllere's be from? I know his major's footb~ll. right! · ,Lo Scotty Wykoff and Stephen Pisserly: We could never ever nave iffiagined you could make 78 girls feel so good! We are forever Indebted. -Love, The Big Brick House Amy:...forget the cocoa and marshmallows, I just wish you would come over and hang out with us sometime. -Love; YBS My . dearest lipid bilehr-I'm very interested in your ideas, but I'd really li\(e you to exp}ai.Il it in detail first . . . Mong--Looking forward to many more happy and healthy times this year. I'm really proud of our progress so nrr-and remember I'll always be there. AUyouhave to do is askt I love . you. -Bel~y- 10-0: Good thing you weren't in any condition to take care of your. L.S. Saturday nite! Keep up the good work and keep adding th~e pledge points. - Love, Ski Dear T. Couldn't be happier. We're finally starting to grow up and really trying to· un- derstand each other. I still love you for being so sensitive. Don't stop! ! Looking forward to the weekend. Love you always - ME After Friday, January 21, the the price of the 1983 YEARBOOK will go up. Hurry and buy your yearbook now at the Student Activities Office. January 21-23i 7, 9, & 1l SS 016-Admission $1.00 CAMPUS NEWS Ranski-Mini Mart runs for pledge points?? All I can say is keep that pin visible! With lots ·of Delta love,. YBS Banana--What a fool ''MARBLE\ is. Giving up such a good thing. Remember, I ·for one will lie in front of the fire with you any time. I love you. Benet·ton and reciprocal, Anna FreudS, and all the rest. Uttle sure does miss big living across. the hall. Pour mon cher Helen .... Vous pensez que vous etes shouette, n 'est c.e .pas:! Va te falre foudre! ( J e suis comique, non?) Chic alor, vous etes a Ia votre habit e. Tout mon amour - Francine I'm sorry, but lt had to be done~ · MJ - Let's make this winter a term never to be forgotten. This could be our last term together until senior year! We're getting old first college, next is tbesis time, then what? Remember always Pete, Claire, Fame, black and white. (very fashionable) --Love Gregg S period 3 Benson-! understand but it's better on the other side I promise (would I ever steer you wront). Make this best time of our lives that much better. Besides it matches most of your clothes and only 2 bucks if you lose it, what more could you ask for!? Love The Pope Boo Boo -to the best big bros a guy could ask for! looking forward to this pledge period and being your brother. ZBT PLEDGES++Gat psyched for the best term yet! Sit back andhold on tight! I just hope the brothers are ready for the ride! pledges:stick together! pledgely yours, Caddy and Rerun GB, Amos, and Susie G-Dot: Hope you guys have been practicing your .puckers. We're going ~or the record I xoxoxo Shaz SRP~Thanks for the best year possible! Happy an· niversary ... 1-24..&. -T.T.S. GLR 2 a.m. in front of who~ What is used to make igs stick? - who could it be? BB To her • • • Continued from page 4 History at Brown. He finds time to work on achieving this goal in the mornings and evenings but mostly in the summers. Professor Tober derives his teaching experience from St. Georges Private School in Rhode Island, his horne state. There, Professor Tober feels, he learned much about getting along with other people. · Tober is pleased with the introduction of Latin to students at a younger age, but-wishes it Sher-Than}ts for always listening to me cry, and mope, and bitch about the world at 3:00 in the morning. What would I do without your shoulder to cry on? You're the best there is, Sher, and don't let anyone tell you different. -Love, The Brute Rob--I HATE MICKEY! And you know I'm not talking about the mouse. If I hear one more top forty song in the Ske~ar or my room I think I will crack. My only consolation is that I get to see your little dance-kick routine. Keep it up - Marcy Sher, Joycie, and Rob- Someday our prince WILL come. I'm sure of it. We just have to weed out the losers (with a capiga(L) first. Joyce- are you watching . your mailbox? The mails from Hamilton are slow, you know.- Brute were not taught just as a language and a tool to for- mulate a better vocabulary. .While he sees the benefits of Latin on tests like the SAT, he also knows that Latin is not just a language but a complicated blend of literature, culture, history and a language. Already showing his en- thusiasm of bettering his department, he has along with Professor Sorum proposed a new course about war in an- tiquity. _ EVEN STRAIGHT liS :AM•T HELP IF YOU FWNK TUITION. Today, the tollghest thing about going to college is finding the money to payfor it. But Army ROfC can help-two ways! · First, you can apply for an Army ROTC scholarship. It covers tuition, books, and supplies, and pays you up to $1,000 each school year it's in effect. But even if you\·e not a scholarship recipient, ROTC can still help with financial assis~ tance-upto$1,000 ,<A>J''r\ 11 \' a year for your . last two years in the program. For more information, J contact your Professor of FRESHMAN AND SOPHOMORES MAY CALL COLLECT 518--783-2536 ]'OR INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS. __llEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS 1S 30 JANUARY 1983 1/ < Applications for the Orientation Committee Are Now Available at the Student ~ctivities Booth GET INVOLVED! Deadline for applications is Feb. 1, 1983 . . '

Page 14 OONOORDIENBIB~ January SO~ 1983 SPORTS· • • • Hockey ' Contillued from page ttl connected at 11:55 to give Union a three-goal lead. Joe Caruse picked up an assist along with Bill Kirby, his third of the night. Hamilton scored two goals. 49 seconds apart to close the gap to one, 5-4. Tod Fobare. continued his torrid scoring pace, netting an unassisted power play goal at 12:12 of the third period. Don Beall gained a measure of revenge as a Hamilton defen- seman was given a five minute major penalty and a game disqualification for clubbing Beall with his stick. With Union enjoying a. man advantage, Beall slammed home the goal that put Hamilton away for good. Assists were credited to his two linemates, Tod Fobare and Jamie Knight. Union outshot Hamilton over the last two periods, 36-16. Friday, Union played host to the Colby Mules and dropped an excellent chance to reach. the . 500 plateau. The keys to this game were a hot goaltender and needless penalties, a problem which has hampered Union for years. Colby's Tim McCrystal kicked out 37 shots for the Mules, who were badly outshot 40-25. Colby scored first at 4:30 of the first period when Don Cronin poked the puck past Union's Wayne McDougall as he was hauled down in front of the Union net. Union co-captain Tod Fobare tied the game at one when · he . popped home a rebound at 6:18, the assist going to Ben Maynard. Danny O'Neill scored a shorthanded goal for Union at 17:02 when he beat defenseman Tom Clune to a loose puck at center ice and skated in alone on Colby's :M,cCrystal. O'Neill drove the puck between the legs of McCrystal before crashing into the net. Colby tied· the score during the penalty-filled second period and then went ahead 3-2 as the Dutchmen found penalties to be - very costly~ resulting in a power play goal at 11:35 and a go- ahead goal at 16:31. With Umon trailing 3-2, Colby's Mike McGrath went off for tripping with seven seconds left in the period. Tod Fobare won the face-off,-drawing the puck back to Gill Egan. Freshman John Mackenzie redirected Egan's blast past Mc.Cry~al for the rookie's third goal of the year. Colby scored at 2:52 of the third period when Tim Holt scored his second power play goal of the night. Union tried to muster a comeback, but was stymied by twelve minutes in penalties in the third period, which effectively quelled any- Dutchman efforts. ICE CHIPs-;Union is now 4-9- 0 overall and 3-5-0 in Division II. This .puts the Dutchmen in fifth place in the ECAC West. They must catch Westfield. for the fourth and final playoff spot, or qualify for a wild card spot . . . After entertaining Division I foe RPI on Tuesday , Union faces. a dozen key Division II games in their playoff drive . . . Tom Hodgins continues to have the hot hand, scoring three goals and six assists in his last seven games . . . Tod Fobare's goal against Colby was the sixtieth. goal of his career, tying the all- time Union record in that category. The Union junior varsity team recently competed in the Capital District Tournament. The squad came up with stunning victories over top flight competition. Union. beat Kimball Union Academy and The New Hampton ·sc.ti'ool before bowing to The . Nor- thwoodSchool in the semifinals. Dutchman Hal Cohen gained All- Tournament Team honors for his outstanding netminding efforts. The JV Dutchmen played Wednesday vs. Avon Old Farms and face Northwood Saturday at 3 p.m. in a rematch of their semifinal loss. GRADUATE STUDIES IN BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH Basic Medical Science Department Active Research Programs Seeking Qualified Applicants Tuition and Stipend Suppo·rt Avai.lable For Further Information Contact: . Graduate Committee Department of Physiology Albany Medical College Albany; N.Y. 12208 ( 518·445,5651) WANTASUMME~CAMP~OB? • Positions available (male-femaie) Specialists in all arhletic areas: Assistants to Tennis Pro; Gdf; GymnastiCS; Swim· ming (WSI~ Smallcraft (sailing-canoeingt Riflery; Archery; Arts and Craftl (general lhop. woodworking~ Ceramics; Sewing; Computer Science: Photography, S<:ience (general electronicst Music; Dramatics; Pioneering; Tripping; Gen· erar Counselors, 20+. Camp located in Northeastern Pennsvt· venia IPoconcs). For further information write to: Trail'• End Camp, c/o Beach Lake. Inc., A4' 215 Adams Street. Brooklvn. N.V. 11201. Swimmers Open .. Season ByS.J. Sports Staff The Union College swim team opened its season this. past week against Hartwick and Hobart. Returning this year for the Dutchmen are senior Chris Howd,- this ·year's captain; juniors Kyle Cotugno, Ron Newbold, Steven Jacobs, Sharon Pearl . and sophomore Mike Fox. New faces on this year's team are .sophomore Patricia Bowering, freshmen Erika Abbey, Steve Zehl, Mitchell K:aplan, Brian Chabot, Leon Hodes, Katja Bock, Betsy Boutwell, Lisa Freed, Annemarie Loftus, Lloyd Malimer and Jim Marshall. Last Wednesday, Hartwick travelled to Union and left with a 48-47 Win. Union led the entire meet until the last event when Hartwick snatched the win from Union. Even with thiS disap- pointing loss, there were many bright spots for Union. Taking first place for the Dutchmen in the 400 medley relay were Jacobs, Chabot, Kaplan and Newbold. Other .first place finishes were Abbey (1000 free), Zehl (50 free), Kaplan (200 fly), and Cotugno (100 free). Taking second for Union were Cotugno (200 free), Howd (200 I.M.), · Jacobs {200 back) and Abbey (200 breast). · On Saturday the ·team travelled through a major snow storm, daring the weather to stop them~ The only thing that stopped them was the strong Hobart swim team. After the storm had cleared; Hobart had won 69.-34. First ,place £inishes for the Dutchmen were Cotugno (500 free), Abbey (200 breast), and the team of Zehl, Hodes, Chabot and Newbold in the 400 free relay. Second place finishes were CQtl!gno (200 I.M.), Newbold (100 :free), and Howd (500 free). Other bright spots. for the team wer~ Freed and Jac'obs both d()ing ·out- standing times :in the 200 back, and, Bowering, Kaplan, Loftus, Malilller, Boutwell and Bock also doing outstanding times in tbeir events. - · The swim team 'will tcy to bounce back from its 0-2 record with a meet at' Trinity .on We~esday, J~nuary 19~ and with a meet with Plattsburgh. and Middlebury 'on· .January 22~ Trackster Kate McLaugMin clears a hurdle in track action week. M The Dutch Hollow Pub ); 11). . Duteh Hollow Pub will be open for Four seatings ·1k) .. · on Saturday njght fer Dutch~an's Night. The .seatings will be 4:3~, 5:00~ 6:30 and 7:30p.m. Reservations for Saturday Nights will be taken on Wednesday and Friday afternoons between the hours· of 1 and 4:30 at the ticket booth, Ca~!_egie Hall. RESERVATIONS A~E REQUIRED TO PARTICIPATE! Dutchman's Night is available to 1_9-meal plan h~lders twiee a month, and to l4 and 10-meal plun holders once a mon1fl. Don't Forget!!! Make reservations You don't have to feel left out if early, bring your mea,l.c;:lrd and 1.0. • you're nQt on a meal plan. We'll . and prepare lo_enjoy yoorselfll! gladly ac.-ept cash reservations too. THE ROCK-N-RO·ll PIZZA PUB the only FREE delivery pi~za pub. on camp.us THIS WEEK PRESENTS: TWO (2) FREE MEDIUM SIZED SODAS FREE from . ~ with the purchase of any large or small pizza Rock-n-Roll PIZZA Call Us: 370-60&0 Open: 4:30·? Delivery: 5:30·11 :30 - T 0 .. () . .t: ·a... r= \

and out- ~ck, ~ock ln to on and 22~ .... ,, ·o .,_. 0 ~ a. ~ o1 st I OONOO'RDIENSIS, Janoory !0, 1988 Page 15 I' f RT - lracksters · Start Fast • • • Playoff Drive fo~ Hockey ByD.D. SpmsStaff Williams' won the quadrangular nieet with 77 paillts, Union was second with 62 points, while Hamilton took third and Hart- wick was fourth scoring 26 and 10 poillts, respectively. Several Dutchmen recorded first place finishes: Denny Contois in the 80Q meter run (1:59.6), Gary Wells in the 50 meter high hurdles 7.4 sec .. }, Lynwood Wade in the shot put (42'8\) Gary Wenner in the pole vault (13'6\) Winston Britton ill the 400 meter dash (51.5 sec.), and freshman Phil Gist in the 500 meter run ,(l:08.6). Sports Talk On s·aturday, January 15th. the Union College Men's Varsity Track team opened its dual. meet season with an impressive olltin.g against Wi:Uialhs, Ifllmllton and Hartwick. With SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff Union long-jumper Tom Ostrander competes in dual meet com- petition at Memorial Fieldhouse· ·· ~nion hoops~er Cay Lynch drives for two of her·ten points against a ~~ugh HartWICk sguad. Women's. basketball record now stands at 1- In addition, the Union two- mile relay of Dave Stanland, Chris O'Donnell, Russ Backhouse and Dave Dellehunt captured first place points with a time of 8: 19.7. Sophomore Bob Bertagna added a pair of second place efforts in the long jwnp (20'10\) and. triple jump (41'3''), while Dave Dellehunt pic:ked up a second in the 1000 meter run (2:37.7). Third place finishers in- cluded: George Capozzi in the 50 meter dash (6.1 sec.), Gary Wells in the high jump (5'10\) freshman Billy McRoberts who battled to a third place finish in the3,000meterrun (9:08.4), and Dave Stanland who took third in the500meterrun (1:10). Denny Contois also contributed a third place fillish, his coming in the 1500 meter run (4:08.8); Lyn- wood Wade also notched a third in the 35lb~ weight throw with a toss of 39 1 7\. The Dutchmen mile relay team of Ken Holman, Winston Britton, Jeff Mickel and Dave First crossed the line in 4:40.1 to pick up the final third place of the day. Rounding out the scoring for the Dutchmen were a trio of runners who gained fourth place finishes: frosh Chris O'Donnell was fourth in the 1500 meter run (4:13.7), Winston. Britton nailed down fourth m th~ 50 meter dash (6.2 sec.) and Ken Holman hurdled his way to fourth in the 50 meter high hurdles (8.0. .sec.). · . Walker Jim Mann competed m the Rosemont-Horizon Games in Chicago and captured fifth place ill the 3,000 meter walk with a time of 12:44.4. The Dutchmen now have a record of 2-1 and thisFriday the Dutchmen will host Plattsburgh and Division I Colgate. The meet will begin at 5:30p.m. at the Memorial Fieldhouse, so come out and support the track- men! Women Roundballers Lose By S.J. BLOOMBERG Sports Staff formance on her part \n only her second game with the team as a freshman. Also notewrothy were Cay Lynch's ten points and Barb Bailey's sixty percent shooting performance. Julie Miller pulled down eleven rebounds for the Garnet. Hartwick was able to beat Union by a wide margin, the game was played competitively throughout. Union will be trying to pull its record into a winning position tonight at Williams College. With SCOTT WYKOFF . Sports Staff Winter 1983 finally made its presence known ill Schenectady and the 3-5 (Div. II) Union College Skating Dutchmen find themselves in an uphill battle for a spot in the ECAC post- season tournament. For the. first time in the last few years, Coach Charlie Morrison's Skating Dutchmen wre picked by experts as a pre- season favorite to grab one of the four Western Division playoff berths, a goal Union missed by percentage points one year ago. Morrison came if;lto this season returning eighteen lettermen and a fine crop. of freshman· newcomers. Morrison instituted a grueling off-ice training program in the fall with his rookie assistant Shaun Teevens. The hope was to get the Dutchmen into top shape .so they could start their playoff drive with a quick \jwnp out of the gate.\ The Dutchmen looked sharp early in November as they defeated North Adams, AIC and Norwich in front of impressive crowds at Achilles. The momentum was short lived, though, as Union came out of the winter break and into January with a 2-3· record. All those involY.ed· with the team realized (coming. into January) that it was critical that the Skating Dutchmen come out of the. six-game home stand in the thick of the playoff race. Going into Saturday's , contest , with Willi.ams, Union finds themselves ill fifth place in the West behind Norwich Middlebury, Plattsburgh and Westfield. Union dropped Westfield from their schedule after a blowout Dutchmen victory one year ago. The top four teams in the West make it to post-season play. Each time Union steps on the ice from now on they will find themselves involved in a crucial game. Many campus observers might be impressed looking in from the outside, with the position of the fifth .place Dutchmen. Bot to the players coaches and t}le faithful Dut: chmen fans that fill Achilles frustration is the only word that can be used to describe the situation that Coach Morrison's squad finds itself ill prior to Saturday's game vs. Williams. In each of their last three Div. II losses, Union has had victory dangling at the end ·of their sticks, as Elmira, Middlebury, and Colby each defeated Union by a one goal margin. The frustration stems from the fact that the Skating Dutchmen have played well enough in each of those games to win. Luck has been on the wrong side of the red line in each of these losses as Elmira won .on a last second disputed goal; Middlebury beat Union at Achilles while being outshot decisively by the Dutch· men; and Colby beat Union although clearly being out- played by the Garnet down the stretch of the third period. Even in the 11-9 shootout loss to Div. I Colgate, Morrison's skaters have proved that they are a fine, playoff caliber hockey team that must jell and fit all the pieces of the puzzle together. Many of the future fortunes of this year's squad laY on the shoulders of Tod Fobare, Scott Fitzgerald, Don Beall, Dan O'Neill and Brad Nicholson. All five ate seniors and have been a part of the four year growth of hockey at Union under Charlie Morrison. These five come from Coach Morrison's original recruiting year that followed the year of turmoil once Harkness departe.d. Both Fobare and Fitzgerald are sort ofthe second and third assistant coaches for Morrison and Teevens. They are looked up to and respected by all of their teammates. The two players are second year captains and both have the skill to pump life illto the Dutchmen with one offensive rush or a swing of the stick. Fobare sits on top of p-nion's. all-time scoring list and 1S contmually helping out his younger teammates both on and off the ice. Much like Fobare, the quiet Fitzgerald leads by example on the ice and always has a . helpful hint for his defensive teammates. The leadership of these seni9rs has kept the attitude of th~ squad on the upbeat thus far this season, despite the squad's toug~ defeats. Only time will tell for the 1982-83 edition of the Skating Dutchmen. After the Williams game they will take their show on the road for eight of the last 11 games of the prom!sing playoff drive. The women's basketball team now stands at 1-1 after a 64-61 loss to Hartwick last week. The game was not one of Union's best, but Hartwick was a strong opponent, as one of the top state teams last season. Union's strongest ·player in the game was Rebecca Clemente who scored 17 points. It was an outstanding per- The two t~ams were equal in rebounds, turnovers ~nd steals. The deciding factor seemed to be shooting percentage with Union at 30 percent and Hart• wiclc at 48 percent. Although · Athlete _of t~e Week DELTA UPSILON'S 2nd Annual ~~Touch of Class'' PARTY Friday, Janua,ry 21, 10:00 p.m. SEMI-FORMAL ATTIRE REQUESTED Beer, Wine, Punch, Soda, Munchies and special Guests By DJ,tEW HURLEY Sports Staff Senior guard Joe Clinton of Coach Bill Scanlon's 7•2 basketball team captures Athlete .of the Week honors for his record-breaking per- formance this past week. Against Division One opponent Colgate, Clinton became only the fifth player in Union College basketball history to reach the . coveted 1,000 point plateau. Clinton fini13hed the game with 14 points and now has 1,007 career points with 16 regular season games relliailling. In Saturday's game against the University of Rochester Clinton contributed a solid . 16. points, handed out a team high seven assists and was perfect from the foul line. In his freshman year, Clinton scored 256 poillts in 24 games and was elected to the New York State freshman team as well as the ECAC AUGEast freshman sq~ad. In his sophomore season, Clinton recorded 318 points and 133 assists in 26 .games. Last year ~e had 317 pomtsand 139 assists m 24 games. Through this year's Colgate game 1 Clinton has 116 points and 43 assists. The Dutchman co-captain currently. holds Union's single game asslSt record with 15 and career assist mark with 4 17 . He is a graduate of Albertus Magnus High School and hails from Pearl River, New York. Joe, an ~nglish major, is also a · letter l'ffiller for the Dutchmen base¥ll club,. and a brother at the Stgma ·ctd Fraternity. 0 0 -a ci -

Page 16 OONOOR1HENSlS~ January SO, 1983 SPORTS Basketball Ro1nps ·Roche,ster ~ 0 .s::. c. >- u IU ..J Ill ·.: .s::. u .e 0 .s::. By RICK SAPIR Sports Editor The Union College basketball team came away from the court this week with one win and one loss and a number four ranking in the New York State Division III Coaches' Poll. Against Colgate, Joe Clinton became the fifth player in Union history to break the 1,000 career point mark. The Red Raiders of Colgate entered the Memorial Field House determined to capture their first victory of the season. Colgate had dropped the first ten games of their schedule but were confident that the Dut- chmen would be their first victims. There was good reason for this confidence as the Red Raiders have not been defeated by Union since the 1944-45 season. In a close, hard-fought perfect 4-4 from the charity stripe. Joe Clinton had six points, which l~ft him one point shy of the 1,000 point mark. The Dutchmen seemed more than a little uncomfortable in what used to be their own slowdown style of play. Union has not scored below 58 points this season while Colgate is averaging approximately 42 points per game. The Dutchmen came out in a tough man-to-man defense in the Second half and converted turnovers into baskets, promptly taking a 33-28 lead. Colgate was able to turn things around with a six-,point spurt of their own to make the score 34- 33. At the 11:30 mark, Joe Clinton swished a jwnp shot from the top of the key. The basket gave Joe 1,001 career points and put the Dutchmen up by one, 35-34. Joe received a Union's Kevin Bartlett boxes out his man and looks for the rebound. Hoop hosts St. Lawrence Sat., at 4:00 game, only a thirty-foot turn- around jwnper allowed the Red Raiders to leave Union vic· torious. From the outset of the game, Union was forced into Colgate's slow paced ·style of play. The DutChmen trailed by 10-6 at the 13:20 mark and then went on a ten-point tear to make the score 16-10. High-scoring guard Joe Wood scored six of those ten points. A defensive move by Coach Scanlon seemed to ignite the streak. The Dutchmen switched to a triangle-and-two defense which temporarily stymied Colgate's offeDBe, but the Dutchmen allowed the Red Raiders to score the last eight points of the half and to bring a 26-22 lead into the dressing room. In the first half, Joe Wood shot 3-4 from the field and a standing ovation from the appreciative fans. But not even three additional bombs by Clinton could save the Dutchmen from a heart- breaking loss. Clinton tied the game at 45-45 with two minutes left. High scorer Eric J{}nes traveled on the next Colgate possession. Union successfully stalled until .only twelve ticks remained on the clock. Unfortunately, an errant pass by Joe Wood gave Colgate possession of the ball with four seconds left. Colgate inbounded the ball to Eric Jones who, under heavy pressure, hit a thirty foot turnaround jump shot at the buzzer. The stunned Dutchmen could do nothing but look ahead to their next game at Rochester. The Union Dutchmen entered the Swarming Yellow Jacket c. >- u 10 ..J (II ·c .s::. u - Skating Dutchman Dan O'Neill (18) battles for rebound with a Colby defender on his back. The Dutchmen suffered a frustrating 4- 3 loss to the Mules. beehive at Rochester Univer- sity in search of their· seventh win of the season. Fourteen hundred and twenty-one Yellow .Jacket fans jammed them- selves into the Rochester gymnasium. It took Rochester four minutes to score a .point as they quickly fell behind, 8~. The Du,tchmen rapidly increased their lead behind the scoring of Joe Wood, Ken D'Orazio, and Joe Clinton who scored twelve, nine, and eight first half points, respectively. D'Orazio's. buzzer shot gave the Dutchmen .a 43-27 lead at the end. of the first half. Sophomore center D'Orazio took up where he left off, scoring the first ten points of the second half and increasing. the Union lead to 53-27. The Yellow Jackets would not give up as they clawed back to within .nine points by outscoring the Dut- chmen 27-8 in a ten•minute span. With the score at 63-54 Union once again took control, outscoring Rochester 15-6 in the final five minutes of play. 'The final score, 78-62, improved their. record to 7 ..;2, D'Orazio, Wood and Clinton .scored in double figures for Union with 23, 20, and 16 points, respectively. Clinton shot 10-10 from the foul line while Union was 16-22 overall from the charity stripe. Union shot just under 50 percent .from the field while Rochester could manage oJ;lly 40 percent shooting. The Dutchmen also outrebounded Rochester 43..::l7 behind D'Orazio .(13) and Jim Doherty (9).. Along with Jeff Feigelson and Kevin Bartlett, the Dut- chmen seemed to have found a winning combination of players in a successful and exciting style of play. The Dutchmen, now ranked fourth by the N.Y.S. Division III Coaches' Poll, play three consecutive home .games. The first is on January 22, against St. Lawrence. The Dutclurien are playing a good brand· of basketball and fan support could make a difference in the \ outcome of these games. , New York State Division Ill Basketball Coaches' Po 111-17.:83 1. Buffalo St. ( 10-0) 2. Hamilton 01-1) 3. Potsdam (10-3) 4. Union 0-2) 5. Hartwi.ck (9-4) 6. Lehman ( 8-4) ~ 7. Staten Island (9-3) 8. Ithaca (6-2:) 9. Albany (7-4) 10. John Jay ( 10-4) Junior co-capt. Joe Wood pulls up for a jumpshot against Div. 1 Colgate. The Red Raiders won the ~a me on a last second shot. Colgate 47 Un.ion 78 SCORE BO.AR[) BASKETBALL (7-2} HOCKEY (4-9-0) Union45 Rochester 62 Hamilton 4 Union 3 Union 7 'Colby 4 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL(1-l) Hartwick 64 · Union 61 Williams 77 Union 62 TRACK Hamiltoh 26 Hartwick TO SWIMMING (0.2) Hartwick 48 Hobart69 Union47 Union34 SPO·RTS HA·PPEN I~NGS · Jan. 20..:27 Varsity Hockey J. V. Hockey V. Basketball - Women's Basketball Swimming Indoor Track Jan. 22 Williams 8:00 Jan. 26 at Middlebury 7:30 Jan. 22 Northwood 3:00 Jan. 22 St. Lawrence 4:00 Jan. 22 at Williams 6~~0 Jan. 26 Vassar 7.:00 Jan. 22 Skidmore 2:00 Jan. 26 Albany St. 4:00 Jan. 21 Colgate, Ver. 6:30 Division II Standings (Western Region and NYCHA) HOCKI!Y Team Norwich Middlebury Plattsburgh Westfield UNION North Adams Williams Hamilton Team RIT Oswego Elrriira Buffalo Potsdam Brockport Geneseo Canislus Cortland WESTERN REGION NYCHA Overall 9-4-0 5-3-1 8-6-1 8-7-1 4-9-0 2-9-1 3-7-0 . 4-7·.0 Overall 12·5·0 10-4-1 8-6-0 6·6-1 7-8-1 4-8-0 4-8·0 4-B.O 3-9-0 Div .II 7-3-0 4-2-1 7\5-1 4-6-1 3~5-0 2-8-1 2-7-0 2-7-0 . Div .II 12-3-0 9-3-0 8-5-0 5-5-1 7-5-1 4-6-0 3\8-0 3.8-0 1-8-0 Pet. .700 .642 v576 .409 .375 .227 .222 .222 Pd. .800 .705 .615 .500 .576 .400 .375 .375 .111 Note: The ECAC will select the top four from the Western Region, the top three NYCHA based on NYCHA play and then the team with the next best Division II record for the 1982·83 playoffs. . . . beat Hamilton Skating Dutchmen Win, Lose ByCPSIS Sports Staff The Union College Skating Putchmen split a .pair of games last week against Division !I foes. On Tu,esday night, January 11,. the Dutchmen hosted the HamUton Con .. tinentalS and came a way with a 7-4 victory. The win .snapped a five-game Dutchmen losing streak anct upped Union's record to 3-4-o in Division li. Six different players .. scored for Union, who controlled the whole game. Hamilton, trailing by a single goal as late as halfway through the third period, was never really in control a~ Union pelted the Continental net with 53 shots. Hamilton mustered a meager 19 shots at Bart Brooks. Certainly not an omen to come, Hamilton scored first on the power play at 10: 13 of the first period; with Chip Hauser in the penalty box for Union. The Dutchmen retaliated with two scores 2:22 apart, with Jamie Knight scoring first at 15:38, assists going to Tod Fobare and BiiJ Kirby. Fobare put Union on top at 18:00, assisted by T.J. Ryan and Bill Kirby. The period finished with Union outshooting Hamilton 17-..'i to take a 2-1 lead into the lockerroom. Haiililton scored 29 seconds into the second period to tie the game before the Dutclmlen offense went into gear,. Brad Nicholson put Union ahead to stay, assisted by Curt Cole and Danny O'Neill at 1:21. Joe Caruso made it 4-2 at 3:50 with c.o-capta.in Scott Fitzgerald gaining an assist. Tom Hodgins continued hiS scoring as he Continued on page .14 I}) \\ u Ill 1/l

)lv. 1 145 r62 >n4 m3 161 , 26 cro 147 134 :00 :30 :00 ~oo to 14 a •• E 0 .c: c. ). 1:1 t'Q ...J . II) \i: 6 1/1 .:L. u Ill 1/1 w n.: ~ rn 0 .... 0 .r:. a. cxn, No. 12 Students ·busy .studying for mid-terms that, under a semester .system, would be during the Bth week. .tJm C7L1 s~ ~· Jonu~ry 27, 1983 . Semester System PropOsed ByC.U.E. ByGAYLEBOSENFELD Staff Union's trimester system has been one issue of ,increasing debate as of late. The system came under question this past semester in a report submitted by the Conunittee on Union Education {GUE). :This group was formed last spring by President Morris and is com• · prised of Professors Edward Craig of the Electrical - Engi~eedng Depa.rtment, Brenda Wineapple of the English Department, Thomas Werner of the Chemistry Department, Daniel Robbins of the Arts Department, James Underwood of the Political Sc1ence Department, . Dr. Thomas D'Andrea and Dean Alan Nelson. The CUE was to consider the question' of the general education requirements at Union. Wb.at arose during its meetings this past summer was a first phase ~eport on Union's freshman year. An issue that stemmed from these discussions and which was also mentioned in the report was that of Union.'s trimester ~ calendar. The CUE found many disadvantages with the trimester system; enough to make. a recommendation that Union at least consider looking at the benefits that a· semester system has. Before continuing, a .few facts and some history should be noted. Union switched to the trimester system in 1964, during a time When many colleges were altering their calendars. Union, in its refusal to remain behindthistrend, jumped on the bandwagon. This, then and now, gives Onion an edge over the majority of U. $. colleges, for theJtriiDester system is far from being widespread Yet, it is preferred by maey faculty and students. Union offers an alternative calendar to its students,. but novelty has not always met with satisfaction; especiallY in a strong academic atmosphere which Union stresses. The trial period has long since passed and some of Union's faculty, . ad- ministrators, and students are displaying-a bit of unrest at the rapid· pace of trimesters. Dr. ·Thomas D'Andrea, a member and general overseer students don't have as of the CUE, helped to clarify frequently. and answer some of. the many Another disadvantage of questions this issue implies. trimesters is that of the reserve Also Professors James reading lists. Students may not Underwood and Dwight Phaup be able to obtain a copy of the <>f the Economics Department, required reading because the both of the Academic Affairs entire Class has less time to Council (AAC), contributed read the material.. Everyone their thoUghts. may try to secure a copy around D'Andrea believes that the same time. Term papers are trimesters are too compact and · still another _concern raised by that ''the semester system _ faculty members. As Under~ gives you a little more wood commented, \I have to breathing space.'' He also ·give them structured assign,. thinks that \If you had a little men:ts which leaves a lot less less density you'd have more creativity for students,\ participation in cultural and because of lack of time to intellectual entertainment,\ by research the topic and think the students and faculty on about it in greater depth. ''They campus. High attendance rates don't. have enough time to at events held by Union are not exercise their creatiVe · always achieved. Learning does capacity, ' ' co mp lain e d not just include class time and Underwood. 0' Andrea pointed homework assignments, but out that thereis just not enough Union's students don't seem to time for students to utifue find enough time to experience Union's extensive. interlibrary much else. In a .semester loans because of this time system where classes are held problem. about two to three. times per Many faculty members week, a student might attend a believe that e:xams must be function because he or she h!lS W,-\aded tog quickly for them to no classes to prepare for the g1ve students the desired notice next day, which is a luxury they require, At the conclusion of a term, professors must grade papers and exams and then immediately prepare for the following term. This does not leave much of a vacation for them to enjoy. They also feel overworked and would like to teach .six Instead of seven courses per year so . that they .could give more attention and care to each student and course. Other attributes that a 1'3emester system might offer are that school would end earlier in the summer, more time would be alotted after Thanksgiving break for preparati<>n for finals, and the Registrar and the library would only have to do their paperwork twice instead of three times per year. However, pne should not be misled by the numerous complaints about the current system. There are still many faculty members and students who like the trimester system, who do not wish to alter it, and have negative views of the semester system. Under the semester system, the academic year would Continued on page 2 . New _B~dget Allocations for Student Activities, p. 3 I Personals, p. 13 -.

page 2. CONOORDIENSIS, JanWJry B7, 1983 Bob Montana, Director of the Intramural Program. Semester Plan. ·- ,. -· Handling of lntra.lllural Fees Questioned ' . . By JEFF STEThiBERG andA.J. BRODSKY Present Intramural Office policy calls for a ''forfeit fee\ to be placed on deposit at the Office upon registration of a team in a sponsored activity. This measure was begun under the directorship of Tom Collette 1 former head of the Intramural program,. to ensure participation of that team throughout the season. The ten dollar amount is handed over to the Intramural Office and returned to the team upon completion of a full schedule. If the athletic team forfeits out of its specific league, the money is forfeited and hence the name of the deposit. It is standard procedure for any College department to deposit income in its indiVidual account, created for -such a purpose. The Intramural Office has such an account with the College. But, \forfeit fee\ checks are not deposited into· the account, but rather .kept ip the Alumni Gym bound together with rubber bands Wider lock and key. . ' necessarily right.\ But,. \th~ peoplewhowork here put up with a lot of grieUrom myself as well as the people who come in, and I look at the parties as a kind .of fringe bepefit.\ This is the reason why Montana has nQt changed the .policY to date. After consideration, Montana agreed to review the system. The Director stressed that ''it is a major concern to me ..,. the handling ofthese checks.'' Dick Sakala also agrees that review is necessary. Cale nda·r Would Change Continued from page 1 · - :Apparently, as was standard Collette procedure simply carried Uirough f()r convenience this ye~r, checks are made out to the Director of the progra!ll and not the department. Bob Montana, current director· of i,fitramural activities; states that this was done for con- venience. \When the money (needs to }?e) drawn out, yoti have to go through all the paperwork . . . you save yourself from .putting it into the account . . .'• adds the present director. Sakata, Director .of Athletics, was not aware of the way checks were handled by the Intramural :Office. He agreed that \'it isn't a go9d system.\ But, countered Mr. Sakala, \I agree with the idea of a forfeit fee.'' Additionally, ''1 see commence earlier in the fall; possibly ·conflicting withLabor Day weekena. The term abroad program might be upset if a switch results. This thought was voiced .by both Underwood and D'Andrea. As D'Andrea said, the term abroad program at Union Offers an \invaluable opportunity for our students.\ Also, D'Andrea included that \engineers and 'premeds can afford to take the term now,' but would not be able to if they were to lose mQre than ten weeks during an academic session. The main question in the change is whether class size would increase and if the larger size would iplpair the quality of education Union offers. This has been answered by the possibility of reducing Union's course load of 36 courses for graduation to the average semester system load of 32. D'Andrea feels that \some of our majors require too many disciplines.'' While Hamilton College requires 35 courses for graduation, Connecticut College and Bowdoin require . only 32. A space problem might also arise if the College calendar was to be changed. The science and engineering building was built on the contingency that trimesters would remain at Union. If semesters were to return, the labs may not be able to accornodate the inevitable class size increase. The CUE's report was sub- mitted for consideration t9 President Morris who in turn forwarded it to the Academic , Affairs Council. They are in charge of approving new courses., setting policy, and various other administrative matters. The AAC is comprised of the four division heads, three faculty members who are selected by the faculty each fall, three or four students selected by the S.tudent Forum, two voting administrators and a vice president in the ex oficio capacity but withdut a vote. The AAC was instituted under Union's new governate system upon President Morris' suc- cession to the presidency. The AAC met on January 11 to discuss the CUE's report. The CUE did not make what Underwood called \a flat out recommendation\ to switch Union's calendar, but ideas were tossed out for con- sideration. What the AAC concluded was summed up by Professor Phaup, \It makes no sense for us to dam it up in the AAC.\ The AAC will have the CUE and the Faculty Executive Committee (FEC) discuss the document first in the four divisions and then brmg it up for examination by the overall faculty. The FEC is composed of a chairman who is elected by the faculty, a secretary, the four division chairmen, and other members. The AAC also advised the CUE and the FEC to make themselves available to discuss it with the Student Forum. lf the faculty approves the document then the AAC will recommend it to the Administrator who in turn will deliver it to the Board of Trustees, the final decisive b_ody with the power to enact the document's policies. What everyone involved desires is to \get a good sense of the community's willingness and interest in changing the system,\ said D'Andrea. \The general education at Union has always started battles,\ claimed Underwood,. Obviously, everyone will not always be in favor of the same policies and procedures at Union. However, the AAC is looking to please the majority of the campus and only through discussions amongst Union's various governing bodies will a con- sensus be reached. No one is searching for an upheaval of campus life if it is not wanted. Union is just in the midst of weighing the pros and cons of the argument, possibly in the hope that it may maintain the tradition started by Union's former president Eliphalet Nott, a man who looked to the future and kept Union just one step in front of the present. Whatever the1rustees decide in the end will undoubtedly coincide with this Union tradition of foresight in modern education. Profile: Matt Nankin ~ .c:: c. ByLORIOLnNENSTEEN StaH Matt Nankin has become a familiar face and voice on campus. Acting as the Film Committee Crier and the , editorialist-humorist for both WRUC and Concordiensis, Matt has managed to attract a great deal of attention, both wsitive and negative. ~ ._; ci ....... ~ ..... !;oo Matt Nankin is the sublect of this week's profile. A junior political science major from Randolph, Massachusetts, Matt c~m be heard every Sunday on WRUC's 6:15 News, read weekly in the Concordiensis, and seen at most of the film showings on Tuesdays, Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays. His post as \Film Committee Crier\ is of par- ticular importance to Matt. \It breaks up the ice before the movie,\ he feels. He also • confides that he likes the feeling of being up on the platform and seeing everyone get involved,. even though they sometimes get carried away. Lately, however, he feels that the audience has been getting a little bit too violent. The job itself started during winter term of last year when the Filln Committee changed and began to get better and more popular movies. Matt is actually not even an official member of the committee (and therefore }las no say in .which movies are shown, although many people tend to complain to him and 'give him their suggestions) but he .became involved when he felt that the announcements before the movies should have more at~. - tention paid to them. Having started the tradition, Matt is going to have to give up this position spring term since he is going to Washington. Therefore, at the end of this term there will be auditions of alumni, faculty, and students to find someone to carry on. · Matt. feels very strongly about the Film Committee; \It is one of the few alternatives on campus, other than hanging out and drinking.\ He feels that the changes in the committee have been for the better and that it has become a very .successful alternative for the student body. Besides the film committee crier ~position, Matt is also known for his humor~us editorials on WRUC's Sunday new,s program which is also publfsbed in Concordiensis. \One Man's Opinion'' developed from the official WRUC policy to have e(litorials after every newscast. No one~ -it seems, wanted to do it. Matt found, however, that when you_ are funny, people will listen to you. He tries to inject humor into totally serious subjects because he feels. people are basically too serious and no longer see. the humor in situations. . Mattfeels that one of the good things about Union is that, even · though there is conflict between Last term, sixteen teams forfeited out of their respective leagues. At ten dollars a team, one hundred and sixty dollars had to be accounted for. Montana responded to the query by· saying the monies \went towards a party at the end of the tenn for our workers.\ By \workers Montana refers to the students employed as, for . example, referees, security personnel and. clerical help. Added the director, \I don't know how good this will go over.\ In an attempt at getting a total figure on forfeits for the year and subsequently the amount of money spent on parties, Montana was questioned as to the average number of forfeits per term. He could not get a handle on the figure and added that ''it depends on the type of activity and so on.\ At this point in time, one team has forfeited out of its league. Montana candidly admitted that he ''just kind of followed along with things that were being done, that ·is not ·nothing wrong with Bob (Montana) wanting to . do. something .for the thirty ot: forf;y ·people who work for him throughout the year. I don't agree that it should be. something done every tel'IIl and I don't agree that . a great amount of money should be spent on it.'; · Sakala stressed that \Bob Montana is an individual With tremendous integrity\ and the problem is one of simple oversight. He added that Montana accepted the program as is, to facilitate a smooth transition of leadership. The Intramural Office is a major operation having a total budget of over fifty-five thousand dollars. Sakala is proud of the ''very healthy ··intramural budget'' and program he created after control was returned to the: Athletic Department ifl1977. It is Dick Sakala's recom- mendation \that the money should go. back into the general · intramural, recreation budget to be shared in the budget.\ But, \if the Intramural Director feels that this is something constructive and helpfUl to the morale and well-being of the workers· he has, and he uses it as a traditional way•of saying 'a job well done,' for him to use his discretion·to go ahead aqd give a party; some people may vie~ that- as an innocent thtng - not an improper way . to · us~ .the money.\ THE CAMPUS MINISTRY OFFICE I . announces A Series of Joint Catholic-Protestant Bible Studies: f The Sermon on the Mount led by Fr. Cox and Dr. Nevin First Session: Thursday, February 3 7 p.m. ALL WELCOME Campus Ministry Office i=ourth Floor Carnegie when to study and when to get involved, it is· very easy to become involved in this school. Matt Nankin obviously wanted to be an integral part of . the campus community and :has, without a doubt, achieved this status. A - d:

\the :>with iwell and I nd of the ; nQt !. 1tana ;tern. \it is · the Dick ~vi~w ~tics, way the :reed em.\ i, \I de it see Bob , do. fof,ty him ion1t be tand ~reat i be 'Bob with l the nple that ;ram tooth The tajor ural he was the it 'a his the A.P. Sloan Foundation -- . . Award Brings Recognition By DOUG LANDON News E:ditor getting proposals frorn othel,' Scott Muirhead, Director ·of schools is bound to broaden its Grants Prograi:IIS, expects the horizons. \Union will become Sloan award to have Bll impact known in a much wider on the corporation and foun- univ·ersity sphere,'' added dation efforts at Union. He sees Muirhead, ''after plans .begin' to it as a possible culmination of circulate among the ·schools.\ the reestablishment ·of \To reestablish quantitative credentials in the area of The Alfred P. Sloan Foun- dation's $250,000 grant to in- corporate a ·progra~ of technologit:;a1 literacy into the present curric.ulum ''evidences an endorsement of quality•• in Union, believes Vice 'Pre$ident for College Resources Robert B. Rasmussen. He considers it a great hOIJOf to have b~en ask,ed to submtt the proposal, which was outlined in last week's concor(lleusis, let alone to have it accepted. . f . 0 . un· datio.ns, a status Muirhead: study as: a natural and integral part of a liberal education,'' looks forward to en- said Albert Rees, president of thusiastically. \The award the.Sloan FoUI'ldation, \wi'il be gives Union a lot of visibility,\ no .simple problem .for the he said. · · colleges receiving these grants. The motives of the foun- BuUhey have allbeen through a Awards such as this can bring positive recognition .to any school which receives them. \When a major {foundation) gives you money, others .sit up and take note,\ according to Rasmussen. :All foundations C!Slt for a great deal of information ''Union will become known in a much wider University sp!here. ,, · about arty schools to which they are considering making gr.ants. They serutinize this material to dation, though, stretch beyond develop pr,ofiles of the in- aiding curriculum in an stitutions. · , atomistic way at these ten '~No foundation will give schools. \What they .fund, they money . to a schOol simply want to have th~ greatest ap- · becaus~ somebody else . did,'' pricability, '' points out Rasmussen said, but added that B,a,smussen, .as evideQced by these organizations monitor the Sloan'S desire to snare the activities .of each other. initial proposals and eventual Because . Sloan is a widely successes of the: programs of respected, major research and each schQol with the other nine, educational. foundation, the as well as the education com- Vice President points out, it munity on a wider basis. Union only considers top schools for its will have the opportunity to programs. '~'they look; into the study the other institutions' strength of the institution before proposals, and they will be asking for the proposal in the exposed to ours. The Foun- first place.\ Criterit\ for dation requests annual determining strength includes stewardsJllp reports from the academic programs,· financial . . awar~l recipients for the ~ame resources, faculty reputation purpose. Rasmussen expressed and college endowment. the opinion that arty' college careful planning process and are now ready and anxious to move ahead., These grants. constitute the first phase of a new program at Sloan that, we hope, will ultimately reach beyond the schools we can directly· help and have a wide ipfluence on institutions of higher e(iucation generally .. '' The .Sloan Foundation requested an eamendment to the original proposal, in order to eliminate the funding of $92,.500 worth of computer hardware. Rasmussen said the .Sloan Program is designed for \people and progress'', as are those of most foundations, rather than \bricks and mor- tar\ acquisitions. The hard- . ware was, however, 4Icluded in the College's Five Year Com- .puter· Modernization Plan started before the Sloan in· vitation was ,given. The responsibility for the funding of this equipment will probably return to the project, which is reviewed annually for the budget by the Planning and Priorities Committee. The plans, Rasmussen emphasized, are \not set in concrete\ and can be altered each year-. Anti-Semitism 'PCrsists By SHERRY WEITZEN Staff The Anti~Defamation League of B'nai B'rith reported that the number of anti-Semitic in- cidents occuring In the United States decr.eased by 14.9 pet:• cent in 1982. These statistics were reported in the 1982 Audit of Anti-SemitiC. Incidents, written by the ADL Civil Rights Division. The report stated that this is the fiist time in three years that the number of at• tacks motivated by anti-Jewish feelings, has not increased, let alone decreased. In the past three years, the occurences had more than doubled. As in ~he past, the Northeast had· the most anti-Sie,mitic _ episodes, altho)lgh there was a significant decline. New York State was the leader, 32.8 ·· percent of the attacks occurred there. In order to combat this violence, special units of the police departments had been set up in Nassau and Suffolk CoW!ties as well as New York City. These units helped to decrease the number of in- .cidents on Long Island by 16.9 percent and in New York City by 16.& percent, both per- centages above the national percentage. The ADL attributes the significant decline in anti- Semitic violence in the United States to a number of factors. AEnong the reasons are those special. units established in the police departments; stricter law . enforcement, laws specifically against crimes that are religiously motivated. The media has aided in making the . public more aware of these jncidents, and school emphasize the destructiveness of bigotry and prejudice so that children may become aw~re that these attitudes are bad. In addition to the number of attacks, the report also stated that the number of arrests made for such tncidents were increased by 46.5 percent since 1981. Eighty percent of those arrested were under 20 years old and not affiliated with any anti-semitic organizations per se. Unlike in Europe, where most of the attacks are politically motivated, mo$1: of those arrested in the United States acted on their own. !l!he Jewish population in America onl_y make · up th~ee percent of the total .population yet these anti-8eJ;Ditic attacks continue to occur frequently. With this significant decline, there ap}>ears to be some hope that the incidents due to un .. necessary prejudice will be stopped in the future. Student Activities {iudget 1982-1983 Page 3 Robert B. Rasmussen, Vice President for College Resources, .comments on how the Sloan Program can affect Unipn, Faculty Studied By MICHELLE NOVELLE . Staff Tbe allocation of faculty .resources is an issue which, in the long run, affects the students ·Of Union. The phrase \allocation of faculty resources\ refers to the process of ·distributing faculty positions. For example, the replacement of retiring and resigning faculty members, sabbatical leaves. non-renewed positions and overloads come under this heading. Larry Tuchmann, one of the four student representatives to . the Academics Affairs Council, pointed out that there are certain academic areas where tbe faculty ·appears to be un- derstaffed. For example, in the Computer Science Department, there is a need for expansion. Two major problems in this department are the availability of terminals and an insufficient nwnber of professors. According to Dr. D'/11ldrea, Vice President of Academic Affairs, these problems are not easy to fix. One cannot simply take a professor from the smaller Classics Department and place her in the. Computer Science department .·and expect her to teach. Nor can one continue to hire · professors, because of the economic problem; expenses would continue to mount. D'Andrea is the person with whom the ultimate decision rests. The AAC, with Economics Professor Dwight Phaup as chair, spent many weeks during the· fall term develop~g ~ criteria for the allocation of faculty resources. Motivation for the proposal came from discussion within the AAC and from a government documen~ which requires the council to come up with a structured plan for advising the Vice President. The fundamental principle to abide by is stated in the document created by the AAC. The principle is \that the in& tegrity of Union College as a high quality, primarily un- dergraduate, liberal arts with engineering institution will be maintained and improved.'' One solution to the problem is to keep positions in the faculty flexible. Permanent comit- ments cannot be continually made. Course enrollments and department sizes are also taken into consideration but do not decide by themselves whether faculty will be increased or diminished. Departments cannot simply be eliminated ~cause of size. A broad, liberal arts education cannot be ob- tained with the elimination of certain departments because they are not as large as another. - ' \The AAC is in a clearing house role; they are presumably in a good position to provide faculty and student input into a process by which allocation I)O$itions are actually made by the Vice President,\ explained Phaup. The AAC is a go-between with which students, concerned with the department of their specific majQr, are able to become in~ volved in the allocation of Faculty Resources. Approved by the Student Forum Monday, January 24 Original Allocation New Allocation St d t F Original Allocation New Allocation Assets: CirCle K 1,452 1,207 u en orum -- 500 Pre-Law Society 325 193 G~y Discussion Group 235 235 Student Activities Fund 237,804 Concordiensis 15,580 15,080 .Philosophy Forum 426 Annual E:ncum·brance (to date) 26,100 Garnet Review 3·, 160 1,548 Yacht Racing ·1,487 1,047 Total Assets $263,904 Photo Club 1,657 1,076 RugbyCiul:i 3,017 1,923 Liabi i ities: Outing Club 3,867 3,867 Volley.bali Club 452 Fencing Club 573- 573 Ski Club 1,845 . Student Activities 168,857 Scuba Club 2,223 2,048 Stone Boat Club Additional Expenses . 67,822 960 Electronic Music Club 1.,505 1,769 Curling Club 733 952 Total Liabilities $236,679 W2UC 727 - Frisbee Club 1,080 BALANCE. $27,225 Arts Guild 1,603 Dutch Pipers 345 Or.iginal Allocation New Allocation International Relations 1,800 1,415 Idol 9,444 6,025 Jazz Ensemble 3,048 2,565 · Coffeehouse 4,678 4,633 Gaming Association 56 -Dance Club 3,115 2,744 cabaret 4,333 4,633 Women's Glee Club 8,055 7,296 Cheerleaders 70 70 Additional Student Activities Expenses Men's Glee Club 9,207 9,029 B.LA.S. 2,456 2,238 Big Brother 4,930 4,930 Garnet 13,303 WRUC 26,094 Mountebanks 1,900 1,900 Union Lampoon 1,000 ,&mnesty International 1,000 A.C.M. 105 camp Union 20,000 S.E.A. 1,740 1,233 lntellectua I Cabaret 698 688 FitzHugh Ludlow Day 4,000 Women'sNetwork 2,765 SoCial Committee (Fall} 4,026 3,205 Student Activities Account 7,000 Concert Band 3,990 3,085 Social Committee (Winter) 4,065 Senior Fling 500 Film Committee 11,760 ll ,760 Political Forum 810 740 Speakers Forum 21,840 . 18,444 Homecoming 2,035 Btolosnc Club 1,624 1,294 Concert Committee (Fall) 1.0,574 10,636 I.S.C. 1,043 Concert Committee (Winter) 11,427 7,986 ,speakers Forum Club Monies 6,15() Chemistry Club 458 345 Elections Committee 700 Pr~·Health SodefY 730 576 Ceteris Paribus 600 !i60 Chess Club 1,0Q3 '437 e 0 ..c a. ~ u \' on w a.:

Page 4 OONOORDIENSIS, January !7, -·1983 CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS Two months late, the federal government has finally released student aid application forms for the fall, 1983 academic term. But because the U.S. Dept. of Education took so long, the College Board ·- which processes many of the ap- plications for the government - is warning students to fill out the forms fast, and to get them right the first time. Students should ''get them filled out and in the mail im- mediately,\ advises Kathryn Ribbey, a spokeswoman for the College Board's College Scholarship Service. Moreover, they should ''fill out the forms very accurately, bel:!ause there's less time for correc- tions.\ The forms usually come out in November, but were delayed this year because Education Dept. officials couldn't agree Q..n the questions and format of the applications, Ribbey says. Union has received a $20,000 grant from Proctor & Gamble, to be divided equally among the Institute for Administration and Management, the Departments of Mechanical Engineering and Economics, and the Office of the President. In announcing the grant, President John S. Morris said, \We are very grateful for Proctor & Gamble's tangible endorsement of the College and its programs. We are delighted that the company's analysis shows Union graduates making substantiar·contributions to the business community generally and to Proctor & Gamble in particular.'' During the last three years, Procter & Gamble has had the highest acceptance rate -· nearly 80 percent - of Offers of The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foun- dation in two categories - student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ falls on March 1. Proposals for student- initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be . submitted to the Dean's Off1ce (SlOO, Science & Engineering Even so, Ribbey says this year's forms are \pretty identical\ to last year's, Most of the quibbling was over family contribution schedt.lles. Now officials are concerned the delay in the forms -- which students use in applying .for federal financial assistance such as Pell Grants and National Direct Student Loans - will convince many students not to bother to apply for aid this fall. \The delay doesn't give families and students much time to get the forms and fill I aid right now because we se~ it as a .good way to si.'gnal· Congress that f~nanclal aid is • . needed and wanted.\ . Because ofthe lateness of the forms and the subsequent confusion expected, the College: Board . has set up a toll .. free . \hotline\ that students ccan call to find out about the status of their app·licaUons. That: nwnber, Ribbey says, is printed at the top of the new ap- · plications which . are now, available at college financial· aid offices or through the College Board. them out, especially since the .-----------li1llllill applications themselves are N·. y. p···l :R··G· very complex,\ Rib bey says. \Students should not be confused and disillusioned by the headlines that will be coming up soon regarding the 1984-85 academic year,\ Ribbey advises. \lf anything we are en, couraging students to be all the ' more aggressive in applying for employment extended to Union graduates. In addition, placement records indicate that more Union students interview with representatives of Procter &Gamble than all but two other companies of the 125 who an- nually visit the campus. Funds previously given the College by Proctor and Gamble . have been used to restore several historic paintings, to support the scholarly work of Stanford art historial Paul Turner, to purchase computer hardware for the Mechanical Engineering Department, and to purchase subscriptions to two computer data archive services for the Economics Department. · Procter & Gamble's main division employs 61,000, and produces household and in- dustrial products. Building) on forms available there. Similarly, . members of the College community who have \educationally innovative'' proposals should submit th~m to the same office on forms available there. Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F ., are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about I.E.F ., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Dr. Ilene M. Kaplan, Associate Dean of Faculty. ByMIKE-ANZENBERGER Staff Two ·recent developments fn U.S. government have quietly created a transition of power in New York State. On one hand, the Reagan Administration has made iLclear that it intends to shift government from Washington to the states. Consequently, the New York Legislature is responsible for allocating millions of dollars to state and local programs, which were previously funded in Washington. Secondly, with the absence of a Rockefeller-type governor in New York, much more power has shifted to the state legislature. These developments have not only enhanced the importance of the state Assembly and Senate, but also the lobbyists that work to shape public policy. The New York Public Interest Research Group (NYPIRG) .is one such ~obby. Today, NYPIRG ha'S the largest lobbying program of its kind in New York, with measures to strengthen con~ sumer rights, protect the en- vironment, and guarantee government and corporate accountability in New York. NYPIRG's lobbying staff consists of one full~time lobbyist with a full-time assistant, and, during the legislative session, 12 or more full-time legislative interns. NYPIRG, a non-profit and non-partisan organization directed by New York college and university students, is funded by students at member schools, contributions raised by professional canvassers, and government and founda 1 :ion grants. ADMINISTRATIVE and ENGINEERING SYSTEMS COLLOQUIUM Although NYPIRG 's legislative program has only existed since 1973, over two dozen bills it drafted or prin· cipally lobbied for are now state \New York State 1 S Approach to law. Due in Jarge part to Economic Developmenf' 1 NYPIRG's efforts; the Bottle W . ILLIAM GRAPER Bill and the Toxic Waste Superfund were adopted into Dl RECTOR.. lawinl982. Among other things, Commerce Devetopment Team in 1983 NYPIRG will be New York State Department of Com me.rce pressing to get a Citizens' Utility Boa:rd established. This TODAY, JAN. 27 · board would be free from utility 3:45-5:00 p.m. Bailey Hall. control. The utility Board has a ~~S=u~~~i~t=a=P=~~S=O=N=A=l~~i~~~:~·~~~~~ s=~~·~ to the Yearbook Here's your chance to leave a last message to your friends at Union for this school year. •1 will buy you 148 characters ••• lust imag.ine what you can sayl See Mrs. Marra in the Student Ac- tivities Office .for your Personal Form for 1983 Ga.rnet THE UNION ARTS CLUB Requests that all talented students and faculty submit original material in preparation for the ARTS CLUB FESTIVAL ~ Parents' Weekend, May 7 Musicai,Theatrical & Visual Arts .accepted Contact: 370~6774 or Box 1026 I - , '-------------...,.., - ·~· NCAA-Sets SAT Minimum By SCOTI' COLLINS · Staff Recently the National Collegiate Athletic Association has created a debate by passing the controversial Proposal48 at this year's annual convention. 1'his new rule has upgraded the eligibility level for all those athletes playing at Division I schools. Proposal 48, which will be put into effect in August, 1986, states that players com- peting at the varsity level must Active great deal to say regarding utility consumer policy, which affects us all1 NYPIRG is indispensable in representing the public interest in New York state government. For example, there are only three or four registered lob- byists4 advocating utility user rights, compared to more than 70 utility company lobbyists. The ratio is even more im- balanced in the banking, in- surance, transportation and other vital economic areas. For more information regarding· NYPIRG call: 457-4623 (SUNY- Albany). or 436- )876 (district office). HOW'S YOUR .PERSONAL . LIBRARY? . Did you know there's a ·second-hand book shop only one block from campus? Our stock of thousands of out-of-print volumes, entirely free of textbooks and paperbacks, is, frequented by both students and professors who are building libraries. We're open every afternoon, and welcome browsers. Somers Bookshop 841 Union St~eet (across Gillespie) have scored at least 700 or 15 on his-her SAT or ACT, respec- tively; and have bad at least a 2.0 .secondary school average after taking a certain minimum core curriculum of colleg,e preparatory classes .. ~~~ause this rule is only for DivlSton I schools, (t will have no effec:;t upon Union and its recruiting. Coming from the NCAA Council and the. American Commission on Education, this rule is aimed toward the upgrading the ''academic preparation of college-bound athletes\ by high schools. It should also be added thatr it will only i.nfluence a player's eligibility and not neceS$arily his-her admission to an . in- stitution. Sharp opposition has arisen mainly from the predominantly black institutions because it is claimed that this rule will affect mostly the minority players. It is .argued that tests like the SATs and ACTs are ''culturally bias.ed against blacks.\ Last week's Sports mnstrated stated that about 56 percent of black high school students receive scores of less than 700 on the SAT. Contrary to this are the people who believe Proposal 48 to be good because it will reduce the exploitation of college athletes. Also, this rule leaves open the possibility of \red- shirting\ in which the college can use the extra year to bring athletes up to the minimum requirements. Dick Sakala, Athletic • Director, said that because it only applies to Division I schools it will not affect the recruitihg ! practices o£ >lJ!lion. He also added that· if Proposal 48 did ·include Division III in- stitutions, it still would not affect recruiting because Union's admission requirements of athletes still far exceed those required by this new ruling. CoillJ:nenting further, Sakala explained the fact that Division II schools may benefit because those athletes unable to meet the new eligibility requirements may move down a division in order to participate.. This in effect will upgrade the spcn·ts programs at many Division II colleges while reducing those at Division I. . Anyone interested in· appl~ing for the position ~f Concert Committee Co-Chairperson, please subm1t an essay to the ComrnJttee on Committees c-o Lorraine Marra. All essays are due in the Student Activities Office by Friday, January 28. The essay . should address your goals, ideas, and qualifications for the position. ' GRADUATE STUDIES IN BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH Basic Medical Science Department Active Research Programs Se~king Qualified Applicants Tuition and Stipend Support Available For Further Information Contact: - Graduate Committee Department of Physiology . - Albany Medical College A-lbany, N.Y. 12208 (518·445-5651) ... - - s }

15 on ~spec­ last a erage mwn llege ca~e ;ion 'I effect iting. rCAA rlcan , this the emic )Ollnd ls. It twill yer's ;arily l. in- risen antly it is lffect rs. It ! the ll'ally Last tated olack ceive 1 the the :al48 ~duce llege ~aves 'red- Uege oring rnum letic se it m I the in- not use ion still by ion use in in II it . OONOOR.DIENSIS) January ~7~ :1983 == Students Speak Out - Amnesty lnternotionql Amnesty International is a . in the civil, . .political, economic, worldwide movement. which is social and cultural spheres. inde~dent of any govern\ Amnesty International has ment, poUtical faction., members. in 33 countries ideology, economic interest,. or throughout the world. Since religious creed. It plays a Amnesty International's in- specific role within the overall ception in 1961, ever 13;000 spectrwn of human rights work. Prisoners of Conscience have The . activities of the been released. Amnesty organization focus strictly on International works for the prisoners: release of Prisoners of Con- - It seeks the release of men science through letter writing and women detained anywhere and publicity campaigns, Page 5 FEATURES .e 2 0.. c: 'iii ~ for their beliefs, color, sex, sending mlssions and trial ethnic origin, language, or observers, and publishing religion, provided they have· special reports. ~~~ neither used nor advocated At the college level, Amnesty violence. These · are termed International functions mostly \Prisoners 'of Conscience\. · t:Qrougb publicity and letter and ~ It advocates FAlR ANI). postcard writing. The intention EARLY TRIALS FOR _ALL is to generate pressure upon POLITICAL PRISONERS and those in power-authorities and works ori behalf of such persons jailers. 'I'he purpose of con- detained without charge or tinual actions is to inform the without trial. violators of human rights that - It opposes the DEATH · . their behavior is known and PENALTY and TORTURE or critlci:zed. The. more well- otber cruel, inhuman or written and weU-informed · degrading treatment or punish- letters they receive, the .greater ment of ALL PRISONERS is the pressure they feel. It is without reservation. Amnesty International's hope Amnesty International acts that such persistant pressure on the basis ot the U. N, culminates in an end to human Universal Declaration .of degradation, torture and iii- Human Rights and other in- justice. ternational instruments. To participate in Amnesty Through ·practical work for International, join the Union prisoners within its mandate, · College group, January 27 at Amnesty International par- 6:45 p.m. in Social Sciences ticipate:? in the wider promotion lounge. Your contribution will and protection of human rights be greatly appreciated. Humor- .. AOP Director Ma>eine Meadows-Shufotd AOP- --- .Academic Opportunities By MICHAEL DE VITO Staff AOP, the Academic Oppor- tunity Program, is a branch of HEOP, the Higher Education Opportunity Program, designed for New York State residents. It is designed for students who did not meet the traditional requirements that would enable them to attend Union, but who show potential, motivation, and the desire to attend college. To qualify for the program the student must meet special requirements in academic;! and financial areas. pmgram. If at some point the family is able to contribute more money to the student's education, then they are ex- pected to do so. Some students are recruited by AOP and others are referred through the regular admissions process. The staff of AOP and the admissions department carefully review the folders of potential AOP candidates to see if they meet the specialized requirements of the program. The students in the program use to be mainly from the New York City area, but now many are from the Trl-City area. Back to Vietnam The student is given academic support dUring his years at Union. The student must attend a si~-week summer program before freshman year which is designed to make the transition smoother. It develops the individual's skills in various areas. The prepatory courses are in Chemistry, pre--Calculus and English. After winter term freshman year, the student ~ finished with the AOP in- troductory courses and takes all the required courses which are necessary for graduation. The AOP student is eligible for tutoring throughout his stay at Union. The tutoring is usually given by Union students. Besides all the academic requirements and programs of AOP, the student must also show financial need. AOP students receive some money from the state and the rest from other sources. Financial aid is awarded on a need basis to those students who cannot af- ford a Union education because of their families' income level. The AOP student receives a financial aid package composed of scholarshipsj Pell grants, TAP, SEOG '(if it is applicable), loans, and a work-study \'The retention rate or- the program is improving,\ says Maxine Meadows-Shuford, AOP Director. A lot of the students stay at Union and graduate. The size of the program is kept relatively small so they pick only those students who they feel will achieve at Union. Some students find it difficult to adjust to the Union lifestyle and realize it isn't for them. Some of the AOP students are also not well received because other students look down on them. The students in AOP have potential; they just haven't been given a proper chance. AOP gives them that chance. By MATT NANKIN Contributing Writer The following editorial first aired on ·the WRUC news on Aprn 25th, 1$82. It was. re· broadcast this past Sunday evening. on the- ''6:15 WRUC News with Dan Coffe-y .. \ It appears here for the first time in prb\t. ' In the April 8, 1982 edition of the Coneordiensis an article appeared from the College Press Service (CPS) that stated how today's college students like to compare themselves to the students' 6f the 1960s and even experience \sixties envy\. Well, the time is over for this, as once again I have come up with a solution for this nostalgic desire for the \protest decade\. All we have to do is go back to Vietnam and start· the war all over again! Now I know what everyone out there is saying: \Matt of all the stupid ideas!! Here we are, finally recovering from the war, and you want us to go back in? How dumb can you get?\ Well, to begin with, China is now a pseudo-ally of the United States. Since they are already. on Vietnam's border, 'this will be of great advantage in fighting the war. Also, with China as our ally we may start at the top of Vietnam and work our way south. I truly believe that this was one of the major errors in the first Vietnam War, where we started fighting from the southern end of the country and had to fight an uphill battle away frox:n the ocean. But there is still the question of where will we find the soldiers to take a two-year trip over to Indochina. Bring back the draft? No! Increase military payments? No! Let women fight? Well, let's not be ridiculous! All we have to do is take all the murderers, ar· sonists, and armed robbers currently rotting away in our nation's already overcrowded prisons and send them off to war. This will get the war fought and eliminate many of the country's most hard-core prisoners at the same time. It will also serve as an incentive against 'violent crime if the potential criminal knows he Start Your Weekend Right .•. HAPPY HOUR afPhi Delta Theta (above the football field) \.. EVERY FRIDAY 6:00 to ~:00 p.m. -~~ may soon be fighting overseas. In addition, there are sure to be many young patriotic A'mericans, the same ones who supported Ned Harkness, who would love to join up to fight for their country and its interests in other parts of the world. Per .. sonally, I would be one of the first to step out onto the bat- tlefield, but unfortunately my poor eyesight prevents me from such endeavors. Now there only remains the fact of lost human lives. Let me just remind you that America had a perfect record before Vietnam, It is,,not up to this generation to destroy it. Why bother fighting a new war in El Salvador or for that matter anywhere else? In Vietnam, we are familiar with the place and the people. We have had time to assess ·what we did wrong and right. Volumes of literature have been written and movies have been made. This time let's go back in and emerge vic- toriously once and for all! Gates111en Selections This is Matt Nankin with one man's opinion. · ·The above views expressed by Mr. Nankin do ~ot necessarny represent the opinion of Con- cordiensis or WRUC. Opposing points of vie:w may be directed at Mr. Nankin at Box 0054, Union· College Grounds, Schenectady., NY 12308. Tele: (518) 370-6974. By MICHAEL KLEIN The Union College Gatesmen, the honorary society of tour guides for the campus, will begin selection of new Gatesmen next week. Any student wishing to become a (}atesman should come to the first organizational meeting, which will be held on Wed- nesday, Feb. 2 at 7:00 p.m. in the banquet room of Carnegie Hall. At this time applications will be handed out, and any questions on the Gatesmen selection procedu.re or the Gatesmen organization itself will be answered. Applicants are required to fill out these applications and return them to . J.S.O. HILLEL Presents A Friday Night Dinner- With Professor Steven Berk, who wHI be speaking on \50 Years Ago: The. Decline Into The Abyss.\ an account .of the Na~i accession to power. Serviees are at 7:30 in the Kosher· Kitchen Dinner is at 8: 00 · $3.00for members-$5.00fornon-members tbe admissions office no later than Feb. 11. Upon return of these applications, prospective Gatesmen will be allowed to sign up for an interview. These interviews will be given the week of Feb. 14, and are con- ducted by the Gatesmen of the Gatesmen Selection Committee in ·Order to see the personality of the applicants, as well as campus knowledge, and how they handle themselves in a tour situation. Approximately 1 in 5 applicants become Gatesmen. The.Gatesmen is an honorary society of students that serve as tour guides of the campus for prospective students and their parents. Each Gatesman . is required to sign up for at least 1 tour a week during the fall term, and less during the winter and spring terms. New Gatesmen go through an orientation ·procedfire during spring tenn, where they learn more about the school and its various departments. Also during spring term the new Gatesmen go on t-wo or three practice tours tmtil they are ready to solo. If an interested student is unable to make the Feb. 2 meeting, he or she should contact Chuck Marchand in admissions for an application.

w 0..: Page 6 OONOORDIENSIS, Jan-uaf'11 17, 1983 FEATURES' - - .. - . .:... - . ' -~ ~ . ·\' ' ,._. ,-_ . Elmo the dog, while looking tor a new home. Campus Not Going To The Dogs By CRAIG 1\1 A:\HLEBUT Staff Gooubye Spot. So long Gar- field. The age of pets on campus has ended. As of the beginning of the 1983 winter term, pets have been officially outlawed on the Union campus grounds. This order originated with the Dean . of residences must be on a leash. The order also prohibits any dog from being left tied and unat- tended . or braught into any b~ldings. This is primarily directed to end tlle practice of bringfug dogs into classrooms. Senior Reflections By CAmYGIFFORD . Staff lt's.been four years and about forty-five thousand dollars, ,give or take afew thousand. And still some things never change. lUte the Nott or Jackson's Gardens: But some thj.ngs do-'like the Idol,. every night. c.apt~~ the shavint. cteam f1ghts, ·pranks and parties that created our friendships. The campus an{! people will always be in a dynamic state; forever. changipg. We've s.een a great hockey team Change and a p9werful· .football ·squad emerge. Who knows what the underclassmen will accomplish in their remaining years. It's been interesting. Yes, there's still hope of snow for traying in Jac~on's Gardens and home hockey games. Spring term is just around the corner and remember, jllst 5 months till June 12th! AI,L TNE _BEER YOU ·C~N·'DRINK- . ALL THE.CHICKEN WINGS YOU CAN EAT • 9NLY ~8.50 Eat the Most Wi.IJgs. . Student Affairs, Joseph Mammola, who was reportedly receiving too many complaints about pets, and dogs in par• ticular. One dog named Fido was in classes so often that he was reportedly only two classes away .from receiving a B.A. in Economics. Fido i$ rumored-to be thinking of transferring rather tha·n facing the minimum fifty dollar fine for non..compliance that. the ad- ministration will be handing down. . their pet popUlations. Delta Pht has found a novel solution to the problem of relocating their pet pig. It is rumored that they brought it to a butcher ~:Bnd have been eating pork chops ever since. This reporter, for one, hopes that this practice will .not spread to the other fraternities or pledges may have to worry about what kind of meat was in the meatloaf. I still don't quite understarid why the library closes every Saturday night at 5 p.tn., or why the .freshmen don't appreciate the finer points ·Of Flip..th~up, Mexican, Frisbee Golf or Friday afternoon Happy Hours. ,Jl.emember the pre-TJU'f days when Alexander Field was always a quagmire and a beautiful lane of Maple trees lined the ,path to Phi. Delta Theta? And when World War II could have been taught in· the trenches in. front <Of the Nott Memorial? Why did the lights .in the arches in North and South ever have to be replaced by boxes? The first snow· here is . beautiful· and the campus-wide snowball fight . is . .. . Who will ever forgettheir firSt broomball game, usually played at 1:30 a~m. with an 8:30 un. test that morning! Win ~s.oo Reserva·tions 'and Information: 458-9302 ·To alleviate this problem.pets will not be allowedto be housed in any dorm itory or fraternity. Furthermore, any dog brought onto the campus from private The on-campus fraternities are beginning to weed down · The Administration will be having strays picked up and taken to the dog pound, so regular diners of West and Hale set your minds at ease. That mystery meat that you are chewing was not that pup you petted outside. . Looking back over the ~st four years brings back a lot of memories, feelings, and smiles. It went by so quickly that you'd only wisfi it could slow down, realizing it will only speed up. Yearbook photos will never Reprinted from Concordiensis, January 17, 1933 ~=~=~=~~===~~~~ cator but as a publicity man, for I his own\ after the first year, and a . I believe that this Is w}\at is neces- system of conferences and tutors sary for a. college to be a success. would be developed. Individual in- . The educational problems would itiative would be unchecked, and I be handled by a board Of directOrS, baCkWard StUdentS WOU)d nOt re- COmpOSed of a small number of tard the advancement of their su- If I Could Found A College BY AN ALUMNUS prominent educators. perlors. If I were to found a. college, I With a president such as I have I would not offer any degrees In would attempt to of'ler a college described above, a large endow- my college, because I believe that which ·would be so equipped, as to ment could be accrued, for this is this places too much emphasis essential in the establ.ishment of a upon examinations. Some nature present a curriculum, equal to suc- cessfully facing and overcoming euccessful institution, and · the of examinations are necessary if the many problems facing the un- main task of the president would degrees are to be offered, whether dergraduate in this uncertain tran- be to place the name of my college they are given at mid-years, year- before the American people to ly, or at the end of four years. sltl<mal period. f. such an extent that children would The present system o a four year My college would be co-educa- . soon reahze It to be the greatest college course bas misrepresented tlonal, hut different from the pres- 1 it 1 t institution on the universe He an education, transform ng n o ent day conception of co-education, would have to be a comp'elling ~ four year cure-all, taken In In that men and women would not · Thl speaker, intelligent and with· a yearly or semi-annual doses. · s- attend classes together until the id f f pleasing personality. ls not my ea. o a training · or an last year of the four year course. · ti It i ht k • Athletics Seems to be . ·a pertinent occupa on. m g war ~..or a I am a strict believer in co-educa- 1 b • t d f h f question to a subject such as th_ is. p urn er s ra: e, but not or t e tlon, but believe that freedom b b i f lit In my Utopian college, athletics us ness o e. thought is restricted rather than encouraged by a program such as would be encouraged to a point Mass education would be rete- is used In the present co-educa- such as Is considered \profes- gated into a system of individual tional colleges. slonalism\ by some. By this I attention, combined with an at- The school would be limited to mean that I would o.btain the best tempt to satisfy the personl!-1 n~eds one thousand students, five hun- of coaches- that money could ob- of the student, rather thiUl striv- dred men and the same number of tain. SCholarships would nat be ir1g to send thousands of men and women. This, I believe is the offered, since this would be un- · w.omen with an A. B., c .. E., E. E. ideal slz_e for a college. necessary, due to the tact that the or other meaningless degrees into I would engage as president, best of American youth would the world. in a. fruitless attempt to some figure, well known to the want to come to this college. face todf!,y's complex world of. American people, not as an edu- The student would be placed \on business and Industry; Includes: I • Round trip airfare (N.Y.)* I I • 7 nights accommodati.on 1 1 • Parties · I •Sports I • Activities I 1 More! I I D MAR 06·MAR 13 0 MAR 27·APR 93 I 0 MAR 13·MAR 20 0 APR 03,AP.R 10 I 0 MAR 20·MAR 27 D APR 10·AP!'117 I I D I'm Ready to Party! I 1 l've enclos.ed my$50 . 1 I . deposit and have. checked myweek. . I 1 D Almo~t ready. Send 1 moremfo. I • Add$40 from O.C., Hartford, I I Philadelphia, Boston I •Plus 15% tax and service . I Name I I Address I I City . State -· _I I Zip . Phone I I. Departur.e City I I.· · I I f~'i~\ I_ -~-nllll:. 1 !io1 Mad1son Avenue - ·1 New \brl<, N:Y 10022 L (2.12)355-4705 (800)223'0694 . .I - .. ·--·----- THE ROCK .. N-ROLL PIZZA PUB TALENT NEED:ED the only FREE delivery pizza pub on campus DUE 10 POPULAR DEMAND. ONCE AGAIN RECEIVE: TWO (2) FREE MEDIUM SIZED SODAS FREE from Rock-nwRoll PIZZA with the purchase of any large or small pizza Call Us: 370-6060 Open: 4:30.;? Delivery: 5:30..11:30 for Parents'. Weekend \A Special Saturday-Night\ Ramada Inn, May 7th Sign up- for auditions in the· Student Activities Office by Jan. 31st FGr more irformation Contact Gale: 6399 ... Elan:. 6547

~team s that , The will state, 1.een. a e and 1quad 1t the aplish Yes, w for rdens 1mes. 1(i the :Ust 5 EN :AT i ' JS. '.)* I 1 I I I 17 I I I I I I I I I I I · OONCOBl)!IiJN81S, .Jarttu~rr'JJ 87, 1983 Pa8)e 7 FEATURES I ..... Humor· /. News In Brief . - .. 1 ~- ' By BOB V ANVORIS Staff Sex Polley :Defined · · In the wake of its an- nouncement of the campus ddnking policy, adminL.C:jtration officials this week released what is being called the new \campus sex policy.\ Accor- ding to John L. Marsupiola, Dean of Student Affairs, \New . York has raised the sex age to nineteen and Union·College will enforce that law•\ Students are warned' that they must have · legal proof of · age before engaging in sexual relations, and R.A.'s will be charged with stamping the affected anatomies of those nineteen and older. Further, aiine of $50 will be imposed on any minot .found engaging in sexual intercourse, while anyone who provides sex to a minor will be fined $100. In addition, so-called \non-sex areas\ will be set aside in Rich- mond and Webster houses in ·~ ,., .. ,.,,, ··'\' \.- ' which minors will have the opportunity to play foosball and video games. with members of the. opposite sex. Marsupiola feels.that sex s)louldbe only \an adjunct to social relationships,\ 1 and urges that students' use of sex reflect \moderate legal and respOnsible behavior.\ As a cautionacy note, . it is estimated that in nearly 70 percent of all 1982 New York State traffic fatalities, one of the drivers was having in- . tercourse. Please ... if you must have sex, don't drive. Batman Rembered Union College mourns the tragic loss last week of ·Batman,_ noted crimefighter of the sixties and early seventies, and 1963 Union graduate. After funeral services held in Gotham City, Adam West, a longtime associate of . the Caped Crusader, reminisced abqut !;lis friend. ''He was such a good man,'' said West.. ~'l re~ember ·':·'·· the days at Union ... they were the best. Batman was a bouncer in the Rathskellar then· he use~ to call himseU 'Ratman'. The way he used to deal with drunken rugby players- 'evild<lers' he · called them ... Bam! Socko! Whap! Truly a giant.\ Whi:le Batman was unquestionably ''a giant\ it is also well known that in the end he .turned to alcohol to relieve the stnain of being the world's foremost crime fighter. Said West, ''Back in '73 when all of the arch-criminals had been sent to priSon, he was a lost man. The Hoy Wonder got out of the business. then, but Batman just couldn't hang up his cowl. Frankly, he died a washed-up old drunk.\ Indeed, Gotham City PoUce Chief O'Hara stated privately that Batman had pawned his utility belt for a bOttle of cheap wine just moments before being shot to deathin a. \pathetic attempt\ to foil the robbery of a Gotham City convenience store. Bandits L Administration: \Nott renovation not a priority\ reportedly made off with · 56 dollars and two six-packs of beer. . All flags on campus will fly at half m.ast for the remainder of the week and the bells at Memorial Chapel will chime the \Batman Theme\ tomorrow at noon in honor of our fallen alumnus. Psychological Research Under a grant from the Q 0 .s= Q. Ill 'u ... 0 LL fa ' ' •• ,_. - -···.:·;. National Science Foundation, Union College psychologists are researching to find a possible link bE)tweert punishment and· violent behavior in primates. According to Professor Charles Hunter who is in charge of the project, experiments are being conducted on animals on the asswnption that the results can be generalized to humans. \Our experimental group consists ·Of twenty-five one-yeat\-old rhesus monkeys,\ reports Hunter. ''This group is subjected to corporal pWlishment daily, and the resulting behavior is studied.\ So far, the results have been dramatic. Says Hunter, \Whenever we go near these animals they become very agitated. We must be very careful because when we open their cages at feeding time they attack, generally trying to claw at our eyes. In fact, one of our graduate students received a rather nasty eye injury in this way.'' Whether or not corporal punishment causes violence in humans is still open to debate, in Hunter's view. \We have, however, found strong evidence to support the old adage that 'spanking the monkey can make you go blind.\ . •;;. - ·. J\ ~ . .. -·. ,· '' Sign of the Times Members of the Union College Women's Network have ex- pressed outrage at a sign posted in the window of the Modem Languages department, urging students to \Study A Broad.\ The matter was cleared up when it was learned that the sign painter was hired under Union's long-standing policy of hiring the disadvantaged. According to Personnel Director Karla Misthaufen, \this person was referred to us by the Schenectady Community Literacy Project. It's true, we've also had some negative reaction to the new 'Pubic Telephones\ in 'Carnegie Hell', but these people need jobs ... besides they work for dirt.\ Apparently, much of Union's staff .is hired in this manner. \Take the Food Service, for example,\ says Mistilaufen, \the person who invented ' Hawaiian Chicken' and ' Cheesey Spinach ·Squares ' is on a day-release program from the New York State Hospital for the Criminally Insipid.'' In these days of increasing unemployment, it is urged that students ignore these small inconveniences and support their school as it plunbes courageously ahead in the social realm. Quotations of the Week · \This administration is not in • , dis~rq~y. '' -Ronald Reag~. · · \Straighten your tie, sir.'' - Edwin Meese. · ·\Thank you, as I was saying: .. \ -Ronald Reagan.·· \It's time to go home now, Mister President.\ -Larry Speakes. .. \ ~\ ..... ., .

Page 8 OONOORDIEN818, Ja'nli14TY· S'7, 1983 Foumkd at Union Colltge llf.?7 ----~------ --~--~~· No Fee Hike Discussion arose · among Student Forum members about whether or not to raise the Student Activity Fee from $38 to $00 per term or $150 per year. Such an increase wolJ}d generate, according, to proponents, $7~,()()() tn adc:fitto:nal funds available to student organiZations. We oppose such a measure and encouragethe community to voice its opinion. This is not a matter to be ta:ken lightly as college costs ·soar. Frankly, we view the, Forum as incapable of handling the present budget with Skill and cringe at the thought of it tackling a larger budget in the future. Proponents a'rgue that the additional monies would act as a contingency .fund to prevent the type . of situation that plagues us today. The Forum allocated in excess of its budget and was forced to regroup and reshape organi~atton funding. We agree with Senior Trustee Karen Schick that the Forum would continue its philanthropic ways and find a way to spend $72,000. Better management, not more money, is the answer. We remind the Student Foru,m that it is possible to recognize organizations wit}l:out providing funding. The community will eventually be blanketed with organizations in breadth, not depth. Resist this proposal as you would resist giving credit .to bankrupt corporations. Money For All Intramural ''forfeit fee'' money is presently being used for partying. It is all wen and good that employees be rewarded for dealing with job· ·related antagonisms, but $160 worth of rewards for l~st term is a bit much. On the whole, Intramural. Office bookkeeping is an accountant's nightmare. Few records are kept of these transactions and finances are handled unprofessionally. What is needed is a good housecleaning. Bob Montana inherited a questionable series of practices from his predecessor. Being rather \green he should rtot bear the entire blame. The Athletic Department, overseer of the program and its budget, is equally at fault. The concept of a \forfeit fee\ is sound, but only if monies can be handled in accordance with standard .College procedures and to the satisfaction of the students. The Director of Athletics; made aware of the situation, has pledged action. Those involved have shown sincere concern and we hope that this air o~ cooperation will foster immediate results. The system must be revamped before the start of next season. Perhaps we can offer a suggestion of what to do with the new found income. Reinvest the money in capital improvements--new broomball sticks, basketballs and a gym floor. The Real World Often in our self-contained ·world, we forget the significant 1 events happening around us. Of interest to the community is the gathering of two organizations in Albany this week. On Saturday, January 29, the Independent Student Coalition (ISC) wilt have a . meetihg of its Executive Committee. · We encourage at least one member of the Student Forum to attend. The ISC provides a unique opportunity for ·student political expression and this particular meeting is a classic·opportunity for the College to advance itself in the organization. After all, let us make every attempt to get our- money's worth. Th,e second event of significance is a Legj.slative Conference sponsored by Family Planning Advocates (FP A) on 1\f()nday and Tuesday, January 31 and February 1. Family Planning Advocates is the . only statewlde ~embership organization dedic-ated to promoting family planning in the State. Funded through contribution from Planned Parenthoods and private donations, this non-profit group is attempting to consolidate its hard-won gains against antil·choicers and those op.P-.OSing quality family planning services. Information can be had at (212) 777•2002, ext. 3036. The common denominator is that both organizations concern themselves with questions affecting students. While the ISC battles for financial aid, FPA strives to provide services for women not available on-campus. '.LETTERS Early . Bird~ Responds · To the :Editor: I would like to comment on the letter by Mr. Massa written • to the Editor in the Jan 13 ·Concordtensls. Mr. Massa · stated that he feels greatly , disturbed by the .fact that only .four people applied for the $500 · Tri-Delta Sorority .Scholarship, . and so he extended the deadline ··until Jan. 21. lam one of those four people who .applied and g()t J - completed . by th'e ... aate deadline of Nov. 15.as stated on · originally required. This shows. the application. Mt. Massa; that we wanted to take ad• there may be. mortr students vantage ·of this ''golden op- requesting additional FinanciEll portunity,'' as you mentioned. Aid now than ever before, IJut if Why · should our chances for these students do not have the receiving the scholarship, · motivation to· appiy for. the awardedto oilly one woman, ·be· schola.-ship why· should you · made more· difficult due to your , · e~tend the deadline by more leniency toward the apathetic than two months? I and three women at Union College? · other students made the effort to · have our applications Sincerely, An Enthusiastic Applicant . Davidson's Dirty Laundry To the Editor: washers and (lryers on tbe squee~e their .laundrY into four washing machines. Either the token policy should be changed, • some kind of enforced system which fines anyone who van~ dalizes the machines, or perhaps. re-budgeting which · would allow for coinless machines. Ulere are certainly more viable alternatives than · removing the macljlines altogether. As of now nothing · has been done and otir clothes are still dirty. We don't feel that · · we should be deprived of these basic necessities· .. We demand that something be done im- mediately. North :side of Davidson. Sar~ Enough is enongh. The casm aside, this· is outrageous; residents of DavidSon have put We understand that in this · . up with waU to wall trash, filthy situatton as well the residents bathrooms, and .pressureless themselves ar~ nc;>t completely showers, but hell, we're tough. blameless. Those students wno We shovel our way to our rooms carry hammers in their back in silent submission. We know pockets in ord~r to . . . save that the students themselves funds on laundry, have gotten are partially responsible for the what they deserve. But the · South Bronx•like atmosphere in many more students who have which we live. And we are not abused the machines are relatively confident that suffering unfairly. There must maintenance is doing the best be a better solution to van- job they can. However, recently dalism than removing all items we .feel that things have gotten which are vandalized. If this out of hand. Dirty hallways are were the only alternatiVll., one thing, at least until now college campuses, not to we've been able to keep our mention all other communities clothes clean, but this past wee~ would soon resemble vacant put an end to such a luxury. lots. The entire population of That is right . . . no more Davidson should· not have to Roberta Rubinstein ShariMidoneck . J.ulie Abehnan · Donna Getson ' JoanSchulman .. GATESM.AN Organizational Meeting Wednesday., February 2 at 7 p.m. Banquet Room .. Carnegie ~ Ball, If 9~able. to atteU,d, contact Chuck Ml!;reh~,t~U:l. in_._ Admissions for an· applicati6n, SCIENCE MAJORS Interested in _ ' medical research? Applications. to Ph.D. programs in Anatomy, Biochemistry, Microbiology, Phar- m a: c o I o g y a n d Physi9logy . a.re now berng accepted. Assistantships available. For more information contact: COLLEGE OF GRADUATE STUDIES S.U.N. Y.. Upstate Medical Center Syracuse, New York 13210 An Affirmative Action· Equal Opporto.nHy Institution R.A. APPliCATIONS ·. Are Now_Available in the -Residence life Offi.ce -Davidson Office or -. Richmond Of.fice Applications _ due Feb. 25 If you are planning a Spring l'erm Abroad alld would like· to be an R.A next year, make all arrangements now. -also- If ypu know of someone on a Winter Term Abroad who has, expre$Sed an interest in being an R.A., pick up an ap- plication for him-her. €one or ~dit{)ts-in..cbief Managing Editor News Editors Editorial Page Editor Featuret$ Editors Arts Editors Campus PaJ{eEditor A.J. Brodsky, Dianne Pavacic . lJulianne Abelman Marcy Burstiner, Doug Landon . · _ D.C. Owens Norm~n Birnbacht Donna Getson Glenn Krutoff, Roberta Rubinstein . Associate Campus-Page Editor Sports. Editors Cindy J. Tenner Jill B. Kaufman Drew Hurley, Rick Sapir Peter Mohr . Gregg Shack Patricia E. Sacks Mary Phillips Robert Tang David Neiblwn Layout Advisor Subscription Editor · Photo Editor Associate Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Political Cartoonist Staff Debbie Albert, Mike Anzenberger, Jan Baran, Jay Baruch, Patty Callahan, Scott Collins, Michael Devito, Kathy Duffy, Tim EnswUer, David F'itzg~rald, Cathy Gifford, Lynn Hano, Kathy Keaveney, Ted Kendris,.RobinKing, Susan.Kone, Tracy LaMarca, Rebecca Lee, Scott lt{cGraw, Pam Mey~r, · Tcilli Mi]ler,.David Murray, Matt Nankin, · Michelle Novelle, Joan O'Connor, Jennifer Paston, Nancy PettineUa, Steffi Propos, Gayle Rosenfeld, AmySchacht~r, Fran~-S.chn.eider, LauraS~piro; .. Gregg.Shack, Yvette 8~1 Sheer; Susan Smg~r, Gayle Stein, Judie Steinhardt, Bob Van Vons, Peter WeiShart, Sherry Weitzen, Scott Wykoff, Dave Zuckerberg Photo Staff Peter Clouse, Brian Bilsback, Russ Fein; Jon Helmer, Paul Klein, Chris Lacy, Susan Mettler, Sue SerenSka, Gregg Shack CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publlcations Office: Susquehapna Publications, Inc., Box :i8f), Sidney, New York 13838J (607) f)fJS..7151: Entered in the Schenectady Post Office aS' lfliriSf, class matter. Subscription · rate:..35 cents per copy, $12 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the COllege Press Service (CPS), and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNl3). Office Telephone - 37().6155 - ii .. c tt [J [J p tl tl a ~ e r1 b fl VI I \1 g a il VI S1 h VI s: c

.... •.s•.· ... - ate )WS ad• · op- ted. for lip, < ,be our.· etie ~ly, < ant -·- our the ed· ·' em an~ or ich · ~ss nly laD·. 1es . ing 1es 1at ~se tnd < in- ~in !Ck, .an :on an OONOORDIENSIS, Jantulry !'1, 1983 ·Page 9 .. .1 _.) Get. Me 'Poe Man'· BY ART BUCHWALD New~ from the ·west. Coast is that . video· games are n9w makirtg more money for\ the movie- cofllpanies tha~. motion pictures. Tbe people w!'Jo keep track of these things estimate tbat mUUons of television sets are being used to play \Pac Man\ and ·~Nignt Stalker\ every nigllt, . So everyone in Hollywood is rethinking the entertainment business. · \Sidney I got a great idea for a TV series. It's about a cop who lives with three girls and .. \ \I don't want to hear about it. What do you have in a· video game like Star Strike?' • ·. \I don't know. 'l;'he wnters aren't too good at thinking up ideas for video games.'' \Then get me s()me. writers who are. I'm rwming a movie studio and. we're not .going to. make our nut if ··we turn out stories about people.. I want something hot like a high- scoring dragon~eating MX missile or a two-headed mon- ster who shoots down B-1 bombers.\ , · \But what about our .film division?· We've got to make movies.'' . \You're wrong, Alan. We have to make money. tf the kids would -rather play with joy sticks than. tune in 'Dallas;' we can't ignore the market.\ \There's still a lot .of people out there watching television, Sidney.\ \For the moment, yes. But in a couple of years there win be more people whO are gl)ing to be playiJig 'Donkeyl<ong' ~nd ''l'he · Empite Strikes Ba<lk..' \l'hat·~ _ out audience, Alan. We :!lave· to thiiik of the future. '()ne good vid,!lo game will make more money than 'Gone Witb. the Wind' and 'Sound of Music' combined.;' · ''I've got a s(!l'ipt h~re· tbat would be . perfect f()r . Paul Newman, Robert Itedfor-d and Burt Reynold$, . ¥ou want to bear the story?\ ''Are · you taJ,kiag al>out a theatrical movie · witb. live ac.- · t()rs?\ \I think so. We .c~CJuld get Lotlis Malle to direct lt.\ \Alan I can't go t1>tlle board of directors andtell thelll. I want tQ make a movie with Ne'Wman, Redford, and Reynolds. Th~y want something tllat th.e k~ds will plunk down •29 to ]llay, lilre an atomic submarine which will torpedo Russian aircraft carriers as they move across the TV screen.\ \But this film will rnake you laugh and cry and scare the hell outofyouall at the same time;'' \Kids don't want to lattgh and cry and be scared my more. They want to ·sho-e>t down unidentified objects fr-orn outer space. They want to-keep score, so they can do better 1han they didthe time oefore~ That's what the movie business is now aU about.'' \Then I guess you ({()n \t want · to · hear abotd Barbra Streisand's next pictlll'e.\ \I want to hear about 'Yar's Revenge,' and why\ with. all the Letters to the editor must be submitted to Coocordiensi5 _by. 7:00p.m. on Tuesday All letters must be typ_ed, double· spaced, on non-erasable paper. - letters must include name and telephone numher; names will be withheld. ~n request. Concordiensis reserves the right t() ·edit any letter for reasons of space. • •• AND FOR. THE NEXT TWO YEARs~ wE'LL STAY THe - COUI\Sl::. AN() KEEP bO\NG 'J\US'i · WHAT WE 1 VI5 BEEN DoiNG l high-priced talent we have on the lot, we can't come up with a game like it.\ · \Yar's Revenge'?\ \Don't play dumb, Alan, you read the trades. 'Yar's Revenge' is the ~th highest grossing video giU'lle in history, It's a classic. Here's a tape. Go home and play it with your kid tonight, and you'll get some idea of what I'm looking for.\ \Sidney all .I know is the movie business. I don't know bow to develop sometl'!ing that gobbles up werewolves.'' ~:Alan,. remember when there were silent movies? Then someone invented talkies and .sUent :movies had ~o go. Then someone invented teehnicolor and black and white mov'ies had 'to go. Well, now they've developed video games~ 11 \And that means movies have to go?\ \Not all movies. There will still be a small audience out there who wants to see a picture every once in a while. But the masses are going to demand something they can get involved with like Atari's 'Bezerk' game, or Activision 'Chopper Com- mand.' They want to pit their ~;kills against demons and rockets and black spiders that screan1 in the night. And we, Alan, as creative people, owe it to the public to give them what they want.\ \That's it, Sidney?\ ''No, Alan, that's show busi.Iiess.'' (c) 198%, Los Angeles Times Syndicate: Concerned .citizens, budding Buckleys, -neophyte N ovaks,~ . and aspiring Andersons should. contact D.C. Owens at 6155. ln(elligent commentaries are welcon1ed by Concordiensis. . COMMENTARIES Commentaries do riot nece~sarily represent the views ~f the Editorial Board of Concordiensis From Washington By JACK ANDERSON and JOE SPEAR WASHINGTON-.,Forty-eight hours after Leonid Brezhnev died on Nov. 10, Yurl Andropov stepped i.qto his shoes as ~e head of the Soviet Commumst Party. This is an unprecedented development in the long and bloody history of Kremlin succession. Andropov was the head of the secret police, the KGB. His overnight elevation to t}le Kremlin's topjobshows that the KGB has gained increased power in the Soviet Union. It marks the first time a KGB man has ever attained supreme power in the Kremlin. In past changeovers, the most that Western intelligence experts would say was that anyone who aimed for the No. 1 spot at least had to have the support of the secret police. Now, the KGB boys have one of their own in charge. The last time a KGB boss even caine close to the top spot was when Stalin's secret police chief, Lavrenti Beria, became part of the temporary trium· virate that replaced Josef Stalin in 1953. But Beria was so hated and feared by his associates in the Kremlin that he· was overthrown.and executed within .a year. What will the rise to power of the erstwhile Soviet spymaster mean to the rest of the worbj.? Our CIA sources don't buy the conventional wisdom that Andropov is a closet liberal. They think he'll turn out to be a hardliner. In other words, they predict a tough anti~etente policy as long as Andropov is in charge. How long Will that be? We.,ve seen secret CIA reports on the new Soviet leader's health. The man is 68 years old. By the standards of the Kremlin gerontocracy, Andropov is - relatively young. But he has definite health problems. In fact, the CIA' once speculated that Andropov was so frail that he couldn't possibly manage his two jobs as head of the KGB and full member of the Politburo. But Andropov sur- . vived. He gave up his KGB job earlier this year, but only to devote more time to his quest for political power. Andropmt's health problems still remain serious, however. He suffered a heart attack in He ronni .. <~rl ~lnra·c:>rv niid•l970s and spent 10 weeks in the hospital, according to the CIA. • But as long as Andropov is able tQ hold onto his new power, he'll be a tough opponent for Western leaders. He is thought to 'believe that the central tenets of Mamsm•Leninism are not carved in granite and can be modifled. But as the man who once tan the vast Soviet slave- labor. system, Andropov can hardly be e:x:pected to bring any kind of western·style liberalism to the Kremlin. WORST TERRORISTS: According to internal FBI documents, the Puerto Rican terrorist group called F ALN is the most active in the United States~ This is the pusillanimous gang that claimed respon- sibility for the New Year's Eve bombing of government buildings in New York City that wounded three policemen. States one FBI report: . \Puerto Rican. terrorist groups will continue to be the most frequent perpetrators of terrorist incidents in the U.S., as they have been for the past five years. 11 During that period, there were more than 300 incidents of terrorism in the United states, and ·the F ALN is believed to · have been responsible for more than a third of them. However~ the FBI may be making headway. The group. . was . crippled recently by the arrests of several of its key leaders. -Politics is prevailing over the pubijc good in the effort to overhaul the tottering Social Security system that millions of Americans rely· on for their retirement. Unless solutions are found soon, the system could go broke. - A special bipartisan com- mission, which was supposed to recommend ways of making the system solvent, wound up squabbling behind closed doors. Republican members generally want to raise much of the $200 billion needed by 1990 by reducing future benefits. The Democrats have argued in favor of raising, payroll taxes. . The commission's staff members and its executive director, Robert J. Meyers, were disgusted by the backstage bickering that produced a mishmash of \options\ instead of acceptable solutions. One commissioner privately confided that the result of the panel's work would be \a big, fat zero.\ The blame can't be laid totally 'llt the conunission's doorstep. Private and public appeals were·made to President Reagan and Speaker Thomas \Tip\ O'Neill, D-Mass., to put aside their political feuding and provide some guidance. Neither Reagan, who was burned on Social Security when he tentatively considered cutting benefits, nor O'Neill, who saw his Democratic colleagues make political hay on the issue in the November elections, complied with the request. . Left in the lurch are America's elderly and han- . dicapped who are worried about their present benefits, and the nation's workers who are fearful the system may collapse by the time they retire.

' . J;. I . I ' ... ' Page 10 OONOOBDIEN~IS, January 87, 198:1 THE ARTS Renovations Continue By DEBBIE ALBERT AND STEFF! PROPOS·\ The Arts Department at Union is currently undergoing a full scale renovation of its facilities. The main objective of the renovation process Is to return the building to its original state before the. physics department temporarily use.d the building years ago. In 1900, Mr. Walter Kreusy, an alumnus of Union, willed the College $250,000 for the improvement of the quality and the condition of the Arts Department. The renovations have been divided into three phases. The first phase, which has been ongoing since the faJl, has already drastically changed both the appearance and quality of the building and the depart- ment. To begin with, the ap- pearance of the .first floor has been beautified. The tiles on the floor have been replaced by stone, and they give the area a more modern look. AlSo, the new temporary art gallery on the first floor will become departmental offices. The second phase, which will hopefully be completed by the sununer of 1983, will include the reconstruction of rooms on the floor into a large area for the performing arts; such as fen~ cirlg, dance, Tai Chi, and rehearsal for plays. From this area, there will be sliding glass doors opening onto the building's courtyard. A door will also be constructed leading into the psychology building. In ·::m JF!I!II addition, the photo labs Will double in size. The third phase is slated to be completed by 1984, although funding for this phase is still' in the works. As planned, room 202 Professor R.obbins, Chairman , of the Arts Departme,~t for the past three years,· describes the renovations. \as a first class t . , opera lOn. will become a .~cture hall for Art History and small concerts. Underneath the raised seats will be a slide library and lecture hall. This will be used for art classes and architecture history. The lecture hall will have windows which overlook Jackson's Gardens. On the third floor of the building there Will be practice rooms for music rehearsal. At the north end of Prof. D. Robbins, Arts Dept. chairman 3-D sculpture by Prof. Markoff ~ $7995 EQUALIZER/- ·BOOSTER CLARION 100 EQB. 15 WATTS RMS PER CHANNEL 5,BAND GRAPHIC EQUALIZER DCR 1 SO Receiver 22WattsRMS 0.09% 'y otal Distortion Limited Quantity ALL BANDS ' ' .. ~-- -~ -~ ·~ .. ~-r-.:' . RAD1tR DETECTORS LONG RANGE PROTECTION XK Dash-Visor SJJO XK-Rernote • G;ill M!Junt Super-HET S1.1per Long · Range V.ix.en ·$..us'\ ' ·, . ' the bUilding there will be two rooms that will provide space for sculpting. The present scUlpting!!rea will be converted into an art gallery. Professor Robbins, Chairman of the Arts Department for the past three years, describes the renovations \as a first class . STEREO SPEAKER :,~ ~ • i (.\ ........ ~ KR-1000 KR-81 0 23 Watts RMS KR-820 33 Watts RMS KR-830 SO Watts ·RMS KR-850 75 Wa.tts RMS KR-1000 120 ... :.'1 ~. ~ ': , ' . ~·' t 119!~ ~KENWOOD . DIGITAL STEREO RECEIVERS All Quartz Locked Preset Tuner $179.95 249.95 339 .. 95 449.95 899.95 operation.\ The College has hired the architectural firm of Mendel, Mesick, Cohen and Waite, known to be the best in the Capital District. With tlie proper funding, the renovation will be completed and the Arts Department will become fully functional. maxell -· LN-60 LN-90 UD-Xl·90 MX-90 REELS UD-7\-1800' UD-XL·7\·1800' .$6.99 7.99 6TDK. CASSETTE' AD-60 $VW AD·9d U9'\ 'SA-60 ·~ SA-90 ~ METAL TAPE. , MA-60 ·.: < ·. <$1A5o MA•90 · . · $.1hfO' ' ; $1.59 2.19 . 2.19 :ut ,$):.if· ·SAt • ·• _-;,:;J;. ··-; .~~!..'· '.::..-.~·, -~ ~t(,; ' - - .. pl t~ N pl hl lE v B p t< 0 c s s a .fl t: t

e has inn of 1 and )est in th tlie vation e Arts ~ fully ·- CQNCOBJ)IENSJSJ Ja;fW4ry 87, 1983 Page.ll THE ARTS BOWWOWWO'W, On The Way ••one of 1981's most im• .pressive rock. succes$es\-- that's whattbe New York Tbnes record critic_ Robert Palmer proclaimed BOWWOWWOW in his year-end wrap-up;· But the legions Qf loyal fans that in· variably pack BOWWOWWOW's exciting live performances. didn't need to be . told that BOWWOWWOW is one of t~e most nefreslUng bands to come out -of England in years. Since the group's u.s. debut last September, -it has been building · an impre~ive momentmn that BOWWOWWO\V's first project, fast, when :aowwowwow preached a ~revolutionary idea: started off 1982 with a bang. The \records are obsolete, cassettes band headlined MTV's New are the future.'' And: to prove it, Year Eve special, ·a nationally they released their initial telecast 'live performance. . Btitish recording only on tape, Since then they have with one Side left blank for crisscrossed the country, home taping. garnering rave reviews for In England, the group caught appearances with the Police, on with a vengeance, setting _ the Pretenders and Joan Jett. stYles in fashion,, mahing news .Response to BOWWOWW:OW and soon making it to the top of has been overwhelming in the c~rts withsucbsongs as Go Japan, too. Their spring tour WUd .in tile Couty and I Want there with Madness was in. candy. credibly successfW and one foroneetrtlly justifies the claim See Jungle!, their American that there's another- British recording debut in 1981, started music invasion afoot. things off stateside wben it caught on in ,rock clubs. But it It's. not <mlf their powerflil was the band's first live ap- jungle rock beat or their .pearance at the Ritz in Sep- provocative sense of humor that tember 1981 that really got the driveS· the crowds wild. It~s the. BOWWOWWOW ball rolling in band. 's hedon. i.stic ,energy_, their the· U ·s The · gr· 1m st _ • !, • • . . oup a o · hard-dtiv~g playing and even , didn't . make it though. harder·d.ancing··Jead singer - Annabella's mother tried to Annabell-:;~ LWin, a. ~ensual 18- prevent her then-underage year.ol~.Eurasianfi,reball. And, daughter 'from coming to the it's IYl~tthew Ashn1an_, Leray States. It took a court battle ta GorD,lan and Dave Barbarossa, override her prohibition-- .and BOWWOWWOW's musical the story made front .page news backbone. The three men in England. Luckily for played together with Adam :as American BOWWOWWOW the original Ants, but they fans, justice prevailed, albeit jumped ship w}len Adam opted Annabella was accompanied by for . visual flash over solid a 19-yeli\r old tutor ... chaperone. musicianship, taking their Sine~ that'- first, smashing accomplished tribal .rhythms trlmnph, things haven't stopped with them. for the group. In less than one Since the band was fotmed in year, they've returned- to 1980, it has generated the kind of America seven times and their controversy that would befit dynamic live performances any creation -of Malcolm have gained them a large McClaren, enfant terrible of the · followirig, especially on the British rock music scene. East ana West Coasts. ''Your ·Cassette Pet;', National exposure followed enthusiastic fan was .so en- terprising that he reproduced The Last·of the Mohteans album cover as a giant wall mural · BOWWOWWOW's first EP, The Last .of the Mobicans, which was released in April- expanded their range to U. S. airwaves. It contains their biggest American hit to date, a revamped version of the sixties song, - I want Candy: Months later, I 'Want Candy became the title track on their .next album and became the largest selling of their growing recordings. In August of last year,. twelve original recordings were released on an LP which has recently ap- peared on record shelves. BOWWOWWOW has made remarkable inroads in the United States. Less than two years ago Americans had never even seen this electrifying band. Today, with the success of their performances and recordings, it can safely be said that BOWWOWWOW has come- • and they h~ve conquered. Don't miss them, Thursda~, February 10. - \ Bowwowwow TOP 20 ALBUMS . ' Januazy 1983 Compiled from various publications _ 1. Peter Garbiel Security (Geffen) 2. Psychedelic~ Forever Now (columbia) 3. Yaz Upstairs at Eric's (Sire) 4. English Beat Special Beat Service (IRS) 5. ABC Lexicon of Love (Polygram) 8. R.E.M. Chronic Town (I~) 7. Bruce.Springsteen Nebraska (Columbia) 8, Elvis Costello Imperial Bedroom (Columbia) 9• Clash Combat Rock (Epic) 10. Gun Club Miami (Animal) 11. Various Not So Quiet on the Western .Front Tentacles) 12. Captain Beefheart Ice Cream for Crow (Epic) 13. Sum111ers-Fripp I Advance Masked (A&M) . 14. Stray Cats Built for Speed _(EMI American) . 15. Joe Jackson Night and Day (A&M) . 1~. Dire Straits Love Over Gold (Warner Bros.) 17. Grandmaster Flash The Message (Sugarhill) 18. Bow Wow Wow I Want Candy (-RCA) 19. Toni BasU Word of Mouth (Chrysalis) 20. As~ociates _Sulk (Sire) (Alternative THE. UN;ION· COLLEGE SPEAKERS FORUM On Friday, January 28, Michael Jerling will be retqr- ning t-o the Union College Coffeehouse lo bring Union College students . ~- wondenul evenin:g Qf entertainment. Singer-~ongwriter Michael Jerling ·draws on a wide variety of styles ranging from country and folk, to ragtime, to jazz and rock to give his music a ·vivid . and imaginative style all its own. Among some of his songs· are '\Lulbtbye\, a dialogue between a recently divorced mother and her son which captures the anguish of their situation; \Driving Willie Home\ a look at a young man's love of heroes, and ''The Return of the BellY'', a spoof on dieting. In his. _music, which is reminiscent of tbat of llarry Chapin and Jim Croce, Michael tells stories, stories of people that we have all known at some time or another. -. Michael's performance will begin at 8:30 p.m. in the Cabaret Room. Tickets are on ~ale at $1.50. Hope to see you there. _ ARTS CLUB pr~sents: I. Storysinger Chris Holder Who will perform an evening of contemporary folk songs, stories, broad_side ballads, tall tales, and a sampling of his own witty, sometimes· outrageous compositions •. SAT., FEB. 5,, 8:00 CABARET ROOM . PICKUP FREE TICKETS AT THE TICKET BOOTH . liHie Vinnie's Pizzeria Free deUverv for college 8-12-~24 Cut _Pizzas _ ·Speci_alprlce on·pa~y~rders - Just as\ for ~·nn•e presents DR. JEAN KILBOURNE The Naked Truth: Advertising's Image of Women© UNION COLL·EGE MEMORIAL CHAPEl - Friday, January 28th, 1983 8:00P.M. TICKETS: Carnegie Hall Box Office $1.00 :for Union College Students and faculty with 10 Union College $2.00 for the Public -. \

, I Page 12 OONCORDIENSIS# January $7# 198$ CAMP·US NEWS HELP WANTED Babysitter for 7 year old boy. Could h~ve the following op- tions: Stay hights in exchange for room and board, 10:30..7_.:30. Live in person in exchange for room & board. Call for further details 372-7167. Niskayuna. ,Furniture store needs strong person to do work pertaining to furniture store: delivering. window changing, moving furniture, etc. Need someone t(l drive van. Ras Furniture Co., 873 Eastern Ave,, Schenectady, NY, 374-7785. Wanted: Student with in- terests in art history, art preservation, or museum work, to serve as grant-in-aid for the Conservatorial Committee. Will assist the Committee in - locating, identifying, and documenting art objects and other artifacts of significance to the College. Some experience in photography is desirable. Preference will be given to student having CWS eligibility. Please apply to: Professor Ruth Anne Evans, Schaffer Library. . . Household help during morning hours for 2lh hours, 2 times a week. $3.50 per hour. Call for appointment. Diane Warner, Lakewood Ave., Schenectady, 377-6595. Student to print about 70 addresses in an address book. Carrie Zint, 404 Millard St., Schenectady, 393-8089. Babysitter needed for 6- month-old twins. Friday mornings, 10 a.m.-12 p.m. If interested, please contact Mr. Plumeau at 370-8069. VOL iJNTEERS Rosendale Elementary School (Niskayuna) is looking for students to teach 1 day a week in an afternoon enrich• ment program. They would like (prefer) students in science related disciplines to teach courses like ''How Do Radios and TV's Work?\ They are open to any ideas students may have. If interested please contact Terry Weiner at x6004. SUMMER STUDY For the fourth consecutive year, 'the Foundation. for American-Chinese Cultural Exchange (FACCE) is proud to announce that the Shanghai Chinese Language Programs (SCLP) will be offered again at East China Normal University in Shanghai, China during summer 1983. SCLP offers two intensive study programs, both of which are open to un- dergraduates,. graduate students and professionals: 1. Language and Culture 2. Law-Trade and Language .Enrollment is limited and the deadline for wpplication is March 15, 1983. For complete information, write or call: Mrs.· C.P, Sobeliilan, Director; The Foundation for American- Chinese Cultural Exchanges, Box 227, 525 )Vest 12oth St., NY, NY 10027, (212} ,678-3943 (Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays). FILMS Thurs., Jan. 27, Bedtime for Bonzo. 7, '9, & 11 in SS016. FREE! Jan. 28-Jan. 30, Monty Python and the Holy Grail. 7, 9, & 11 in 88016. $1. Thurs., Feb. 1, Fist of Fear; Touch of Death. 7, 9, & 11 in 88016. $1. SPEAKERS Mr. William ll1, , ·Graper, Director, Commerce Development Team, New York State Department of Com- merce. Topic: \New York State's Approach to Economic Development,\ Thurs., Jan. 27, 3:35p.m., Rm. 207, Bailey· Hall, Union College. Speakers Forum presents: ''Jean Kilbourne: The Naked Truth,\ lecture ,on subliminal suggestion in advertising, 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel, Jan. 28. Tickets are available .for $1 with I.D. in the Ticket Booth. CLUB NEWS The Women's Glee Club will present a Winter Concert in Memorial Chapel at 8 p.m. on Sat., Jan. 29. There will be a very im- portant meeting of the Union College Curling-Club, Fri., Feb .. 4 at 4:30p.m. in the warm room at Achilles Rink. All those in- terested in curling at Union College should attend. ' Tl'i-County Indoor Track Meet, Sat .. , Jan. 29, 9 a~m.-6 p.m. in the Fieldhouse. Anti-Nuclear War meeting, Wed., Feb. 2, HO p.m., 4th Floor Lounge. JV Hockey Game vs. Trinity- Pawling, Wed., Feb. 2, 3:30p.m. in the Rink. · CLASSIFIED This y~ar for Parent's Weekend, · the Planning Com- mittee is sponsoring Union'S \A Special Saturday Night.\ This will be held at the Ramada Inn· on Sat., May 7. Inclu(led in the big event will be dancing to the Big Band sound of \The Capitals\ and a night club type show utilizing student and faculty talent. Your help is needed to make this evening a success. The Parent's Weekend Planning Committee will be holding auditions to try out for 20 minute spots in the show. If interested, sign up with Lorraine Marra in the Student Activities Office in Carnegie Hall . for an audition. Signups will be held until Mon., Jan. 31 Bedtime for Bonzo Thursday Night (1 /27) in SS016 at 7, 9 &~ .. 11 Sponsored by the Union College Film Com- mittee. . ADMISSION • NORTHWESTERN • COOPER • PEN1'11 • VOlT • YORK • RIDDELL • KOHO 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------,z :!:) • Anaconda-Kaye Sports, l·nc. • N i z 3 ~ 11.1 • • z ! ~ • 440 State Street- Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 518•382·2061 The Coaches Choice ·for ,Athletic Equipment SCHOOL DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE for: -Athletic Footwear. Clothing, Equi·pment -T·Shirt Printing on Premises The Area's Newest SPORTING GOODS STOR.E Formerly Fox & Murphy-Downtown Schenectady Canal Square z 0 t; <( lU • • • .... U) c:J z OPEN MON.-FRI. Evenings Till 9:00 p.m. w -~ ~ ~ i ~~~--~==~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~--~~~~~~ • :IWY • i111ASI001• VSVliiW • . HI!WYti:». • J.SIEJ11U • .1SV1H3A3 • liSS • at 4,:30. The Com.rnittee wi1i be . Student looking for an shortly 'contacting those who apartmen$ for next year. if you sign up for auditions. For more are living in an apartment information, cc;mtact Gale which Will be empty next Year Burstein at 6399 or Ellen Slipp please call 370..6425, . 6547. Ail support would b~ greatly appreciated. The Bloodlnobile will ·be in Strauss Lounge from. 9 a.rn.-5 R.A. Applications available in p.m., Tues .. , Feb. 1 and Wed., th.e Residence Life Office., Feb. 2. · · · 'Davidson Office or :Richmond - ------------------- Off,ice, due Feb~ 25. If you are PERSONALS planning a Spring Tenn Abroad . and would like to be an R.A. next year, make all arrangements now. If you know ·of someone on a Winter Term Abroad who has expressed an interest in being an R.A., pick up an application for hitn-her. · Curling Rink Hours t)lis week: Thor., Fri., ·Jan. 27-28~:30- 5 :30-General Recreation Sun., J,an. 30-~3-5--General Recreation. NOTE: The curling ice wiU be closed to :students on Sat., Jan. 29. Playdowns for the Grand National Curling Club's entry in· the United States Junior. Men's Championship will be held at this time. All are welcome to watch. Comedians! Are you funny? Make me laugh and you can earn money. Call 346-7907. • . LOST: gold bracelet with a diamond chip. Reward 9ffered if found. Please contact Liz at 370-6899. Wanted apartment or room space ( s) to sublease for spring term only. Please contact Liz at 370-6899. . I LOST: A blue CB ski jacket at, Elissa, AinY and Sue's party on Friday night (1055 Park Pl.). Any information, call Doug at 393-8148. . ., Vanessa I love you! R. Donna K. of DDD: Nlee outfit you have there! I bet the rest of Union doesn't know what you wear under that robe. l'll never tell. Love, P. 10-0: Semeone's .colon on the phone for you. I'd get it but I've been detained and. it'S ab:eady 1:15. Hot shit and Bagel~Congrats on one year,! ! Sharon,...-,Congratulations. We love you. DELTA LOVE , Jeanne - Don't bury me 'cause I'm not dead: yet .. : Wait until spring term. Love, S.S. P.S. E. T. still needs a shower . Q: What are you thinking about? :I'm thinking you. / . The Camera Never Blinks, so smile, smile, smile ..• editor-at- large We have the right to keep and arm bears. Ph,otographers sho.ot everywhere and come out hard! SLGs FOREVER!! ! PLAN NOW FOR PARENTS' WEEKEND MAY ,6, 7, 8 109 Canal Square, Broadway, Sch'dy. Phone: 37 4-4332 PI ,ZZA · N.Y.SStyle e . ~ ... CUI Ch«ue 4.25 Ex. Chene '5.25 S~~lli•n Style (,Deepdioh) 12\ cut ' 24\ cui 5.oo i.so UO IO.cio s........ 5.25 UO Ui.OO Muahroom 5.25 Pepperon.i 5.25 Green Pepper•. 5.25 Meatballa , 5.25 UO IO.Oit c.oo ao.ao G.GO If ... 1.00 ... .. Onion• ' 5.25 Ancho11iu 5.25 A1117 Adcrltem , · .75 Pap.·Cicce'al>elu•• t.ZS I.Ot ... .. uo ... .. 1.00 .... JO.!JS' U.to r-----~----- ... FifEEMERCHA'Nofs€~- ... ---------1 · EWt\Ytl~ you get aplzu or Nndwlchu valued at more than 1 S.UIO)'cuwlll rtailve a c:iDUpon • s.w tt.m far Fret Mlrchandlie. : , lSCoupons llcutFne(chteseonly) • 20Coupons 112cutFne(Cheitseonly) ' 25~ l24cutFne(llngndlerlt) : socaupon. Y.akegoflleer(3ctayt-flotla) • 1GO c:ou,on. Plna Party for 25 peopl9 wl1tl beer et yOtW t . . . · dorm or fr•t.mlty (2 .._YI IIOIICI). • -------~-----~~--~-~----·--~------~--.-~~--~ WE DELIVER ON' CAMPUS PHONE 37 4-..4332 · I J . .

r an If you tment t year be in a.m.-5 Wed., s R. ! outfit rest of ~t you never on the 11t I've lready ngrats 1s. We y me :wait s.s. tower. inking lks, so tor-at- ~and ~hoot hard! _ i • I I t • t I • I I • ,J. OONOORDIJJJNSIS,. Janoory 2\1~ 1988 Page 13 Mo lD£ PIJ:::'DSQNAL·. . To Pat, Sarah, and Kim: · .· :n · · LJn. · ·. '.· S Here's. to a new beginning! - · Love, J - Dearest Jill-I'm so glad to have you aboard. Hopefully it will be fun (w:hiebllmow you know how to ·have as evidenced by your display of ·dancing on the bar at SDT on Sa.turday). ' Love, Cindy · Carla and Peggy and anyone else I . have in~dvertently left out; I love yo1,1 I love you I love you. Is that all right?? I.<lve •. 10~ 0 . . .,. BOB--Glad to see that you did a good job of being a \guy.\ We will always love you. ...Cindy and Roberta, NESS~ILYlLYIL XILYI- LYlLYlLYILYlLY! ! ! L, YAR To my new sisters: l'm vecy excited. to begin my new position. Thanks for thinking of me. rm glad to be a part of the 'gang now! -Love, Your Active 10·0, You lucked out Saturday To. the person on. the other morning but don't think because side of the pantry: You're going you'll be gone .this weekend that fo 'have the best experience of you're not going to get yours your life, enjoy it. Remember eventually -Love, Sld · that I love you very much and 1'11 be missing you every · to Iytelanie, Happy . 22nd minute . ...;Much love, .from the birthday! We love you! Jayroe one· on the other side of the and Marlene .,.. pantry., Melanie .... · Pretend you're three different animals. Vinnie, Congratulations on becoming 'a brother to the Italian stalUon. Hope it was · wC>rth the wait. -Love, Randi C---'Boo! -MAV To the 10:30 a.m. crowd at the pub - Please help·the countless murders of the Nawga. These harmless creatures are being slaughtered by the· thousands! It's up to you. SAVE THE NAWGA! Vinyl is just as ef· fective as. their hide anyway. Please help . . . send con- tributions now. Thank you, James Watt · Union College Film Committee presents: l/28-1/30 7,9~ 11 5501.6 . -.l(DLJ __ ~ • 'THe~ltr~-x~rL· ,PGI . >@o FROM CINEMA 5 Dear Mate, Don't know what to say to keep things safe but I love you and I'm happy we're working things out. All my love, Randi · Michelle+Not only did you wake up Judy & Dee Dee but the whole North wing woke up. It must have been something to do with that movie we saw Saturday· night. Funzie where are you? I miss you. Lynn, Laura, Rynus & Katie: A · gr~at new - concept in -socializing - pizza fr'ite .parties. . in all her greasiness, Love, Frida Drex, Wait till you see! the newmovesthat 1~ and I have! Would you .beUeve a 99'er? 10-0: I hear that your history seminar is really keeping you on your toes. Oh well, that means no ,piece of - for me this week! Your loss. Pisserly Stephert~l've heard of blue balls,. but .ice balls? P.B.-This just _in:. alligatoritis runs ram-nt on Union Campus. Cause: unknown. Cure: unknown. Extremely contagious. Once acquired victim intelligence drops to that of a small soap dish immediately! Oh no I There is something on my skin .... It's too late, I got it. I feel funny - TP Z.B. T.-Nothing else to say 'but ... BEWARE, WE'RE WATCUING YOU! -The PLEDGES-- JRP (H), I'll trade three weeks without a hug for eighty years of bannana-wacky- ness!!! Eternally Yours, B(P)H Jean-Here's to a Valentine's Day. you are never going to forget!!! Karyn: Let's go home, listen to ~oud music and eat apple pie. -Type A Randi: Thanks for having the patience to \pull teeth\ with me. I really do appreciate it. Now, get some sleep! -Love, the shy one · r~!f.~ -. WE DELIVER- 374-1888 ~~ ~Yk 464 State St. Schenectady, NY The Dutch Hollow Pub Dutch Hollow Pub will be open for four seatings on Satu~ay night for Dutchman's Night. The seatings will be 4:30, ~:00, :6:30 and 7:30 p.m. RESERVATIONS ARE REQUIRED TO PARTICIPATE! DutChman's Night is available to 1 ·~meal plan holders twice a month, and to 14 and 1 Ommeal plan holders once a month • ' EVEN -RRAIGHT MS CAN~T­ HELP IF YOU FWNK TUITION. Come to the PARTY at 'SMITH HOUSE FRIDAY, JAN. 28th Today, the toughest thing about going to college is finding the money to pay for it. But Army ROTC can help~ two ways! · - . First, you can apply for an Army ROTC scholarship. It covers tuition~ books, and supplies, and pays you · · up to $.l,OOO_eac,:h school year its . in effect. . But even if you're not a scholarship H''-·li .. W\'l ROTC can still with financial assis~ tance-upto $1,000 a-year for your last two years in the program. For-more information, contact your Professor of Military Science ARMYROTC. KALLYOUCAM BE. FRESHMAN AND SOPHOMORES MAY CALL COLLECT 518•783-2536 E'OR INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS. DEADI.;INE FOR APPLICATIONS lS 30 JANUARY 1983 at 1 o:oo p.m. Bring I.D. THE WORLD UR CAMPUS ~~-- AROUND THE WORLD: 1983 (Sept. 14-Del'. 23) Seattle • Kobe, Japan • Pusan, Korea • Keelung, Ta~wan • Hong Kong • Jakarta, Indonesia • Colombo, Sri Lanka • Bombay; India • Haifa, Israel or Istanbul, Turkey • Alexandria, Egypt • Pir.aells, Greece • Cadiz; Spain • Ft. Lauderdale, Florida Sponsored by the · . of Pittsburgh, Semester at Sea offers students a superior full s~meste.\ aca~emic program and supporting field experiences. This one semester e 1 x 1 .Pi eru~I,J~e .IS avaolab(e to qualified students from all accredited colleges and. univE'r· · s es. More lhanh 60, voyage ·related university courses. Faculty drawn from tht> Unlvershy of PIUsburg and other leading universities, augmented by vi;liting area experts, ·Optioualtollrll, including ilpecia(,tours Into the People's Republic of Chinn, available. t\'r~sler !'t Sea admits students without regard to color, race or creed. The S.S. A~:J~:. os fillly alr·eonditlonl!ll, 18,000 tons, registered In Liberia and built in for II free color br9ehure, write: Semester nt Sea, UCIS, University of Pittsburgh, forbes . Pittsburgh, PA 15260, or call toll free (800) 854.() 195 (in California ~BII

;,. Page 14 OONCORDIENSIS, .Janwry 81, 1983 SPORTS Skiing Looks Competitive ByJCK Sports Staff . On the ski scene this past weekend, Union College raced against thirteen other colleges from the. Upstate New York area. The sun was shining as the ski van arrived at Taggenburg Mountain and the team was ready for tJ'leir first competition of the season. The Giant Slalom was slated for 10:00 a.m. and Slalom for 2:00p.m. In the Giant Slalom, Earle Stokes came in 8th place while hard-working coach Brian Walters came in 9th place. Other members of the team made a fine showing, placing in the top thirty against seventyQ five racers. Freshman Dan Rosenfeldt skied the 100 Giant Slalom in his first race of the season finishing both runs with competitive times. Pat Ver- nech, powder skier .from Colorado did quite well in his first race but caught an edge in his second run and defaulted. Make Balte showed much -Sports Briefs Fo.bare Scores 61st Goal; Owns All of Union's Scoring Records Senior co-captain Tod Fobare completed his hat trick last Saturday night when he scored his 61st career goal during Union's, 9-0 victory over Williams College. Fobare, a four-year starter who has not missed a single game for the Skating Dut- chmen., is now the College's all- time leader in .all three .scoring categories, goals-61, assists- 92, and points-153. The5' 9, 180.:pound center who has been Union's scoring leader the past two seasons, again leads the t~am with 15 goals, 18 assists and 33 points after 15 games. He still has 11 games remaining on the regular season schedule. Union enters the week with a 4-5 Eastern College Athletic Conference Western Region record and a fourth-place standing. The Dutchmen, 5-10 overall, play eight of their final games on the road and must finish in at least fourth place in order to qualify for the playoffs. Wood gains Third ECAC \Honor Roll\ Honors For the third time this year, Union's junior guard, Joe Wood, was named to the Eastern College Athletic Conference's weekly \Honor Roll\. Wood had a career high 32 points earlier this week (Jan. 19) as the Dutchmen defeated host Middlebury, 81-67. He hit' 11 of 19 field goals, 10 of 12 free throws, pulled down four rebounds, handed' out five assists and came up with three steals . against the Panthers. On Saturday, Jan. 22, Wood helped the homestanding Dutchmen defeat a much taller St. Lawrence team, 61-53. Against the Saints, who had a five-game win streak broken by the Dutchmen, Wood scored 20 points while shooting 6 of 12 · from the floor and 8 of 11 from the line. He also contributed five rebounds, three assists, and two steals. Union, now 9-2, is off to its best start. since 1974. The Dutch- men have won seven of the last eight games, including the last three in a row, and were ranked . fourth by this week's Division III New York State Coaches' Poll. Union has been on the honorable mention list of the NCAA rankings the past three weeks. After 11 games, Wood is the team's scoring leader with a 20.2 average. He is second with 41 assists, first with 25 steals, fifth with 43 reboundS, second among the starters in field goal percentage (55~9) and fourth in a free throw percentage (65~3). . ,.•·''- -~~~~~~;~t:~i~{~~~1 ~· High scoring Tod Fobare became Union's all-time leading goal scorer Sat. night when he scored his 61st goal againsfWiHiams. • WANT4&UMMERCAMPdbB? Positions available (male-female) Spociatists in all athletic areas; Assistants to Tennia Pro; ·Golf; Gvmnasta; Swim· ming (WSit Smallcraft (sailing-canoeingt Riftery. Archery; Arts and Crafts (general ahop, woodworking~ Ceramics; Sewing; Computer Science; Photography; Science lgeneral electronicst Music; DramatiC$; Pioneering; Tripping; Gen• era I CounseiOtS, 201-. Camp located in Nonheastern Pennsyl- vania (Poconosl. For funher information write to: TraU'a End Camp. c/o Beech Lake, Inc .• A4' 215 Adams Street. Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201. potential but .had some dif- ficulty wmle Ca~l Aiken pulled through with needed con- · sistency. The ·only girl skier Carol Yearden ~finished in the top ten. of both the slalom and .giant- slalom. When asked what lies in the future, Carol remar~ed, ''Next week I'll win if they give me longer skis!\ This week's race Is at Cornell and promises - to snow . considerable im .. prov:ement for the Union ski team. Union speedster Winston Britton won tlie· 400 meter ·dash ~rth a time of 52-.1 sec. By DREW H1JRLEY Sports Staff Athlete of the week this week does not go to any one individual for his or her outstanding performance, but the award goes to the entire men's indoor track team in recognition of their successful start and their efforts this past week. The indoor track team pulled~ off perhaps their biggest victory under Coach Russ Ebbets' two- year tenure as they · dumped · traditional division one power Colgate by twenty points and Plattsburg St. by forty-eight points in a triangular meet last Friday night a:t Union's · Memorial Field House. Several individual per-. formances highlighted the Dutchmen vjctory as Union won nine. individual ·events, took six . second place finishes, and picked JlP points for four third place finishes. (See Dave . Dellehunt's· track article for ·details, p. 16} · The Dutchmen victory im· proved track's record to 4-l which is their best start in .• Basketball . . . Continued from page 16 shooting touch. Kevin Bartlett. converted an offensive rebound into a basket at the 13:00 mark giving Union an eight point lead and St. Lawrence cause to call a timeout. Clinton scored six points in the first seven minutes of the half to provide a much needed spark for the Dutchmen. The Saints regrouped dming the timeout and clawed back to eventually take a two point lead, 52-60, with 3: 10 remaining. Joe Wood fed Kevin Bartlett inside on Union's · next possession to tie the game at 52- 52.· St. Lawrence's Bob Ager traveled at the other end and Wood took advantage of the opportunity hitting bot}} ends of a one-and-one with two minutes. to go. The 6'8\ Blaine Harris was fouled by Bartlett at the 1:32 mark and made one of two free throws pulling the Saints to within one, 54:-53. .After a timeout by St. Lawrence,. and with 1:10 still remaining in the game, sophomore Jim Doherty was inexplicably intentionally fouled. Doherty .calmly sank both foul shots to increase Union's lead to 56-53. After D'Orazio stole a pass in the St. Lawrence end, Doherty was fouled again. This time he made only one of two but it was au the Dutchmen needed. D'Orazio tapped back the missed foul shot to Clinton who hit two more free throws 'after being fouled. Joe Wood's breakaway layup ended tlfe scoring for the day, giving Joe a twenty .. point game; and the Dutchmen a · 61-53 · victory. Jeff Feigelson was .tough on the boards for Union reeling in six rebounds while Clinton, Bartlett and D'Orazio each contributed ten points. Although only scoring five points, Jiin Doherty's clutch foul .shooting in the waning moments of the game gave the Dutchmen the edge they needed to pull off the victory. The Dutchmen did. what they had to in order to Win. They shot over their taller defenders, played tough defe.ttse, and kept their poise down the stretch. Coach Scanlonis still looking to instill' a \}gller instfuct\ into tb.e team-the ability to blow; the game wide open in order to avoid the nerve-wracking final moments of the close games. But he and the rest of the squad will continue to take the winS in any fashion they can. Senior forward Jeff F.eigelson ex- DART EQUIPMENT Any fraternities., sororities, or independents wishing to purchase top quality Accudart pW:Oducts such as dartboards, darts, or dart accessories call Dave at 3J4-3068. All prices are 15% .. 20% below retail prices years. Coach Ebbets com- mented., ''this was a .~eat Win for us., everybody wor~ed hard as a team 8Jldindividua}ly. W~ really deserved the Win/' Indoor track looks to improve their .record as they compete in the Plattsburg lnvitationa'l meet this week . Congratulations to the . put- chman track team and best of luck .f()r the remainder of the seasoB. The coveted Miller trophy will be presented· to · Coach, Ebbets and 'will' be on display in his office. plaiDed the confidence · which the team feels, saying, ·\Now when we· go out on the court we expect to win. We know we're good/' The tealll has a. layoff until January 28th when they face Hobart .at the Memorial Field-· · ho.W!e. The Dutclu:nen, now 9 .. 2, ..:are off to their besf start since 1974 and' are currently ·ranked fourth in the N. Y.S. Division III Coaches Poll. RENT ! !ANNOUNCE'S!! NEW CARS WEEKLY 350Miles Free SCHENECTADY 382-8111 ToQualified Customers JVST JACKS Mo11day & Wednesday s-r p.m. ss.oo AJI the TACOS you c~n eat TtJesday & ThursdaY. All the BUFFALO SlYtE WI'NGS you can eat ' S-7 p.m.· ss.OO 323 ERIE BLVD. Ill 'i: 6 ... .. .. t I t

ith a· com.- llt win 1 hard ly.W~ ,. tprove Jete in tiona'! eek. Dut- >est of of the ~iller :ed· to be on which we're until face Field·· 9-2, since III ll •• • • • 8asketbgJi, Bcl.ttl·es for Support $·ports Tal·k Hockey· Shuts Out Ephs In the g'arne of colleg.e basketball, a latge and vocal partisan crowd can often make the difference between victory and defeat for a squad playing on its home court. Back in the early 1970's,. crowds used to pack into Union College's Memorial Fieldhouse to watch Dutchmen bask.etball. Head coach Bill Sc~lon, a veteran ()f ten Union campaigns, remembers back to those days when a winning Dutchmen team could always rely onthe support of the home crowds. Those days of Dutchmen basketbali prosperity h~ve returned to Schenectady, but this time: minus the once sta~ing room only crowds. ' B()aSting a fine 9-2 record, the 1982-83 Dutchmen basketball squad finds itself on the way to possibly setting a school record for ntttnber of, wins in a season and a berth in the NCAA Div. III post season tournament. Riding a two game winning streak, Union came home last weekend to host a hot St. Lawrence team that had won its last five games. Witb SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff guard in the game~ It's almost worth coming outto watch these two work by themselves. But the success of this year's squad also stems .from the major imprQvement in the play of the big men from one. year ago. 6'5'' center Ken D'Orazio seems to be coming intobi.S own as only a sophomore~ D'Orazio added fifteen pounds during the off-season and gives Scanlon the size that is needed inside to rebound and score against often bigger opposing centers. Ken's inside game is- c-empleme~d by the scrappy. and hust1ilig style of sertil)r Jeff Feigelson. F·eigels<m is a fierce competitor under the boardS and makes a lot of things happen with his 6'4'', 205-lb. frame. Rounding out the starting lineup is yet another sophomore, Jim Doherty. Doherty's the type of player that every good team needs to have. Poherty un- derstands his role as a ballhandler and support player as he is continually in the top one or two slot for assists each game. Rotating off is the very talented sophomore forward Kevin Bartlett. Scanlon con- tinually calls on ~artlett throughout the game as Kevin is the type of player who can put Ufe back into a squad at any .. -point of a game. .E This team is exciting in the .g sense that they have learned to c. win and put on a great show in r; the :Process. An alley-oop from o:: ByCPSIS Sports Staff The Union College Skating Dutchmen split a pair of games this week to bring their record to 5-10-0 overall and 4-5-0 in Division II. ,On Tuesday, January 19, the Dutchmen ran into a big, tough RPI squad iil a reJD,atch between the two Capital District rivals at Achilles Rink. T;he game was a typical Umon-RPI hockey matchup. Although dominated. statistically., the scrappy Dutchmen were never out of the game until 'RPI .scored with 34 seconds left in the contest. The teams traded goals in the third period, RPI hitting first at 3:10. '• ' ..... - took a Gill Egan pass, skated around an RPI defender and fii·ed a low blast that evaded Fradet. Bill · Kirby was also credited with an assist on the goal. Shots on net in the second· peried were fairly even, 16-12, in favor of RPI. \ RPI scored two key goals to put Union in a hole. At 34 seconds of the third period Randy Koudys fired a shot on a 2 on 1 break that Brooks $top.- ped, but the puck trickled between Brooks' pads and into the net. Then at 2:38 John Shumski scored on another 2 on 1 to put the Engineers up by three goals. _ Union came storming back a minute later as co-captain Scott Fitzgerals rushed the .puck up style'' short pants for their Saturday night clash with Division II rival Williams. The ch~nge paid off as Union blew the Eplunen out of the rink, 9-0. Seven d-ifferent Dutchmen dented the strings as Union led from start to finish. The Dutchmen took ad- vantage of a cbippy Williams dub by scoring seven power· play goals. Donny Beall started things off for Union at 12: 54 with a powerplay assisted by T.J. Ryan. Danny O'Neill scored at 17:18 with Billy Kirby picking up the assist. The powerplay unit struck again at 19:2~ when Donny Beall set a pick in front of the net for Tod Fobare, who skated out of the corner, cut in front of the net, al'ld fired the puck by goaltender Dan Finn, Gill Egan and Beall assisting. The goal was the sixty-first career goal for Fobare, setting still another Union record for the senior co-captain from Saranac Lake, NY. The audience gave Fobare a nice ovation in recognition of his feat. Union scored once in the second period on the powerplay as Jamie Knight scored at 6:14, assisted by Fobare and Don Beall. Gill Egan and Mickey Perras each scored two goals in the third period. Tom Hodgins tallied a goal with 43 seconds remaining. John MacKenzie pi~ked up three assists for the Dutchmen in the final stanza. Tom Hodgin~ (2), Joe Caruso, Tod Fobare and Gill Egan also had a hand in the scoring. Coming into the game the Dutchmen were ranked fourth in the state and all those close to the team hoped that a good sized crowd would show up at Memorial Fieldhouse to cheer (m Union's best team in a number of years. The Dut- chmen rose to the occasion and defeated the Saints but had to do it in front of a \grave yard\ crowd of 350 faithfUls. One has to wonder why the lack of fan support persists while the team continues to win. Clinton to Wood; a slam dunk from D'Orazio; a sprawling dive for a loose ball by Feigelson; picture perfect execution performed by Doherty; and instant offense off the bench from Bartlett, all adds up to a brand of basketball that is pleasing to the eye. All that is missing is the support from the fans. Gill Egan dives to cl.ear p.u~k as Fr. goalie Wayne McDougall sc:ramble.s to get back m pos1t1on. McDougall recorded Union's first sliut out m two years. Wayne McDougall, a fresh- man from Guelph, Ont., kicked out 38 tough shots to notch the first shutout for a Union goaltender in two years. At the other end, Union marksmen launched 44 shots at Williams' All-American goaltender Dan Finn, who let nine get past him. Union retaliated with a powerplay goal at 7:42. Jamie Knight received . credit with assists going to Donny Beall and Gill Egan. The rest of the period featured RPI firing 19 shots at Union netminder Bart Brooks, who stopped 18. Union mustered seven shots at RPI's Rene Fradet. RPI took the lead at 2:36 of the second period with Union's Curt. Cole out for interference when Marty Dallman put home the rebound of a John Carter shot trom the blue line. RPI's George Servinis, DiviSion I's leading scorer, scored the Engineers' second powerplay goal of the period at 9:31 when he rapped a bouncing puck behind Brooks. Union closed the gap to 3-2 when, Tom Hodgins No one can knock the Dut- chmen for not playing an ex- citing brand of basketball. Senior Joe Clinton ·and junior Joe Wood form an almost un- stoppable backcourt tandem for the Dutchmen. Clinton amazes even his own teammates with his uncanny ability of being able to get tbe.hall to the npen man while being· · double teamed.· Clinton holds two school records in the assist column for both career and in a single game and recently surpassed the 1000 point plateau for his four-year career, Joe had all in at- tendance, at the early season , Capital DiStric.t Tournament, on their feet as he single-handedly guaranteed victory for Union with his fine . display of· ball handling. Wood complements ' Clinton in' the backcourt, as he can hit the jumpshot from al.Inost anywhere on the court. Woody can also often be seen down low with the big men, as he can rebound and block shots as we~ as any snnall college ~ny believe that the Union student is becoming more selectiVe .with his-her time. The demands that stem from students' course loads leave little <time for extracurricular .activity. :Basketball also is in direct competition with the hockey team for that selective student. supporter. One must remember that back in the early 70;s when students and locals were filling the fieldhouse, basketball was the only real winter ~pectator sport on campus as th~ ho~key program had not been started until 1976. One can only wait and see if T · k the improved fortunes of the . . ra c .. • • 1982-83 . Dutchmen hoop squad return fans to the fieldhouse .for the excitement that Union Continued fr.om page lG. basketball has to offer. Utr . - r Intramural Spot Jjl r ByG.W. Sports Staff· This week's Miller pionship Co~rec . 'Beaver' football team, and a brother of the Sigma Chi Fraternity. Special thanks to Miller Beer for sponsoring this award which recognizes participation in the intramural program. Intramural Spotlite is on Russ ~ enner; Russ recently won the ~tr!Ullural foul shooting contest hittmg 42 out of 50 free throws. Although he was tied by Sam Gifford ~t 42, Russ made 43 in Union ID Required the second round compared to Sam's 36 to clinch the event. to Use the Russ, a graduate of New · Hartford High School (N.Y.) is Athletic Facilities also a member of the cham~ --.._ _________ ....... chwomen two-mile relay ran to a first place finish against a tough Plattsburgh squad. Second place finishers were: Andrea Grief in the long jump (4.56m)., Karen Califano in the 1000 meter run (3:26.8), loge Stockman in the '1500 meter run {5:06.4), and Jenny Snover in the 50 meter hurdles (8.6) .• Four Dutchwomen con- tributedthird place points in the losing. cause: Kate McLaughlin was third in the 50 meter hur• dies (9 .• 4), Karin Krolinkowski was third in the shot put (8.1m), Joan O'Connorcapturedthird in the 3,000 meter run (12:11.6), and Jenny Snover notched third in the long jump (4.41m). -Both teams will travel north this Saturday to Plattsburgh State to compete in the Cardinal Classic Invitational. the ice and into the RPI zone. Fitzgerald launched the puck towards the RPI net, where freshman Tom Hodgins put the puck behind Fradet for his second goal of the night, Fradet and Mickey Perras assisting. At 8:43 Union pulled within one as Danny O'Neill put a rebound off a deflected T~J. Ryan shot from the point on a powerplay past a sprawled Fradet. Curt Cole also picked up an assist. Two minutes later, RPI's Bob DeBrase fired a blistering shot into the lower right corner .of the net from the left face-off circle for a shorthanded goal. Union pressed to close the gap but to no avail as RPI scored again to close out the game. .. Sporting a \new\ look, the Dutchmen displayed their \old- ICE CHIPS--Donny Beall picked up his 50th career assist vs. Williams. The 5-11, 185 lb. senior from Needham, MA also ~s 41 career goals for 91 points, flfth on Union's all-time scoring list. ThiS is quite impressive considering the number of games that the hard-nosed Beall has missed due to injuries ln his four years at Union. Beall was named MVP his sophomore year. The Dutchmen now hit the road for three key Divisiion II matchups: Buffalo, Geneseo State; and Salem State. The Dutchmen faced Middlebury last night. Skating Dutchmen Don Beall (L) and Jamie Knight (21) Storm Ephmen net. Union's on the road this weekend for two crucial games agai_nst Buffalo and Geneseo.

Page 16 OONOORDIENSIS, January !7 1 1983 SPORTS ... now stand 9-2 Garnet ' . Five ByRICKSAPm Sports Editor The Union College basketball l.earn improved their record to ;L2 last week with impressive \\ictories over Middlebury and St. Lawrence. On the road against Mid- dlebury, junior co-captain Joe Wood scored a career high thirty-two points to lead the Dutchmen past the Panthers from Vermont by a score of 81- 57. The Dutchmen who had lost their last game at the buzzer against Division I opponents Colgate, once again had their high scoring offense on track. The Dutchmen went out to a quick 7.0 lead and by the 13:27 mark sophomore Kevin Bar- 0 ()· r. Q. ..,..: ~ Clinton and Joe Wood each contributed three. The Dut- chmen never had to look back. Middlebury could come no doser than a nine point deficit, fi4-c55, with 3 :·50 remaining. But Wood--and Clinton worked a couple of back~door plays to nail the coffin shut on the Panthers. The Panthers were able to put ten men in the scoring column but still were not able to com\ pensate for the double figure totals of thirty-two, seventeen, and eleven .scored by Wood, Clinton and Bartlett, respec- tively. Wood complemented his thirty-two po1rtts wnn tour rebounds, five assists and three steals. Clinton dished out a team high seven assists while sophomore Ken D'Or~zio Dutchmen forwards Jeff Feigelsonand Jim Doherty fight to grab rebound against visiting St Lawrence. Strong offensive rebounding down the stretch helped the Dutchmen pull off the 61·53 victory. tlett's jwnper made the score dominated the boards pulling 19.:8. Middlebury whittled the down thirteen rebounds and lead down to four points but the bloc,king three shots. The Dutchmen managed to end the Dutchmen continued to· -make half·with a 35-27 lead thanks to a good on their free throw , buzzer shot by Wood. shooting as they scored twenty- Like the beginning of the first nine points Jrom the charity half, the Dutchmen dominated stripe. play at the start of the second ·period, outscoring ·the Panthers Dutchmen Top St. Lawrence 14-5 over the first eight minutes~ Jeff Feigelson scored five The Dutchmen returned to the points in that stretch while Joe Memorial Field.house to host a V. Hockey SPORTS HAPPENINGS January 28-February 3 Jan. 28 at Buffalo Jan. 29 at Geneseo Feb. 2 at Salem Feb.~ Trinity-Pawling J.V. Hockey V. Basketball Jan. 28 Hobart Feb. l Rochester W. Basketball Jan. 28 & 29 Binghamton Tourn Swimming Indoor Track I ' Feb. l St. Rose' Jan. 29 at Norwich Feb. 2 at New Pal.h; Jan. 29 at Plattsburgh .lnvy SCOREBOARD BASKETBALL (9-2) 7:30 7:30 7:30 3:30 8:00 8:00 6:00 1:00 4:00 1:00 Union 81 Union 61 Middlebury 67 St. lawrence 53 RPI7- Union 9 HOCKEY (5-lO) Union 4 Will.iamsO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (3-2} Union 58 Albany St. 74 Union 60 Skidmore43 Union 65 Williams 53 MEN'S •NDOOR TRACK (4-1) Union 78 Colgate 58 Plattsburgh 30 WOMEN'S INDOOR TRACK ( 1-4) Plattsburgh State 59 Union 46 Rolls strong St. Lawrence, team in a Saturday afternoon garpe. Thanks to clutch .foul shooting, crucial offensive rebounding and a lot of poise, the Dutchmeri were able to turn away the Saints 61-53. The victory, the third ina row for the Dutctunen, snapped a. five game winning streak f0r St. Lawrence. Although the first half was close throughout, it was marked by two contrasting methods of scoring. The Dutchmen were not able to get their running game going and were only able to stay in the game thanks to fine outside shooting by the whole team, with the notable exception of the usually hot- handedJoe Clinton (1)..7). On the other end, the much taller Saints were able to consistently work the ball inside to tbeir * twin-tower forwards Matt · Ramsdell and Blaine Harris, both 6'8''. Although the 'half ended with the score knotted at 26-26, things did not look good for Union. First, there was the question of how long the Dut- chmen could keep sinking their outside shots 1 Secondly, sophomore center Ken D'Orazio had picked up three. fouls in the first half and would have to play delicately inside. Thirdly, although Joe Clinton hand~d out nine assists in the first half, he did not score a point in the half and would have to contribute more directly to the. scoring punch. Dutchmqn trackster Gary Wells displays. perfect form enroute to his winnin~ high jump of six feet. • e • down Div. I Colgate Track Pulls Upset . ' . Clutch Free Throws Jce,Game for Dutchmen Fortunately for the Dut- chmen, the hot hands remained, Bartlett did not foul out and co- captain Clinton found his Uftitll Clint oil Wood D'OraEio Feigelson Oolierty Bartlett Blackburn Continued on page 14 Mldllltbllry GFT GF'r ' 5 11 Hack~y ' 1 ll 11 10 31 Teal ·o 1 i 2!14iletr 215 2 3 7 Rawdlfl!! 2 0 ~ 2 ' I Mogor 10 1 21 3 S II Sheffer 5 I 10 0 f 2 nompson 4 0 I Crudtllmk 0 1 l Updergraplt -o 2 2 Nardell• I 0 2 36 2f II Ttllll » 7 67 St. LIWURCf Union Ford Mack Coleman Ram$dell Harris Ager Davison Totals G F T 1 4 6 Clinton. 5 7 12 Wood 1 2 4 D'Orazio· 3 ! 9 Feigelson • 1 9 Doherty 2 7 11 Bartlett 1 0 2 Laux 17 19 5l \Totilila G F T l 4 10 ' . ~ s 0 10 2 0 4 0 5 s 5 0 10 1 0 2 22 17 \ ByD.D. Sports Staff . On Friday, January 21st, the Union College men's varsity track team upset Plattsburgh State and Division I powerhouse Colgate in a triangular meet at the Union College Memorial Fieldhouse; the victory upped the Dt~tchmen' s dual meet record to 4-1 which is its best in recent years. Union outscored its opponents with 78 points, Colgate was second with .58 points and Plattsburgh managed only 30 .points. Denny Contois led the Dut- chmen with a pair of first place finishes; Contois was first in the 1500 meter rWl (4:10) and in the lOOOmeter run (2:37.7). Several other Union competitors added first place points to the Dut- chmen cause: Lin wood Wade won the shot put (14.15m), Winston Britton was first in the 400 meter dash (52.1 ), Phil Gist captured the 500 meter run ( 1:08.5), Bob Bertagna picked up a win in the triple jump (12.16m), Russ Backhouse notched a win in the 8QO meter run. (2:04.2), Gary Wells was first in the high jump (6'0\) and Gary Wenner picked up a first in the pole vault (13'0\).. A quartet of Dutchmen captured second place finishes: · Billy McRoberts was second in the 3,000 meter run (8z57.9), Chris o:nonnell took second in the 1,000 meter run (2:38.3), Tom Ostrander finished second in the long jump {5.2lm), and .Lynwood Wade . picked up a second in the 35 lb. . weight throw, In addition,' both the Union two-mile relay team (Dave Stanland, Russ Backhottse, Phil Gist and Chris O'Donnell) and the mile relay team (Ken Holman, Winston Britton, Dave First and .Jeff Mickel) ran to second place finishes. Rounding out the scoring for the Dutdunen with third place points were: Scott Remillard in both the 35 . lb. weight toss .( 11.6m) and the shot put (13:2m), Bob Bertagna in the long jump (6.06m), Dave Dellehunt in the 800 meter run (2:'05.3),. and Tom Witt in the triple jump (10.44mJ. Racewalker Jim Mann com- peted in the New England Championships on Saturday, January 22nd and placed second in the 3,000 meter walk. Women Drop to 1•4 The women's team dropped to 1-4 after suffering a disap- pointing loss · to Plattsburgh State 59-46. Jenny Snover and Candy Mills-Grosy were both double winners for the Dut- chwomen. Snover won the high jump (4'10n) and·the 500 meter run (1:23.8), wJ:P.le Mills{irosy broke the tape m the-300 meter dash (45.2) and the 50 meter dash (6.8). Inge Sto~kman also added a first place finish in the 800 meter run with a time of 2:32.8. In addition, the Dot- Continue~ on page 15 Women's Basketball 3-2 By KATHY DUFFY on Thursday and this time lost Sports Staff the game in the second half. Leading 34~27 at the half, l}nion The season is still early but could not pull off the win. They the Union College women's seemed to have a problem with basketball team is looking Albany's half court press and strong. Four of the nine players committed too manY turnovers. are freshmen and the ymmg _ Union lostthe game 74-65. There team currently posts a record-of was· a positive side to the 3•2. Coach Lynn Barta feels that Albany game, however. Coach the depth of the bench and the Barta believes the first half was versatility of the players will be tlie best basketball she's seen the two major factoJ.:S of this her team play, particularly season's success. offensively w~th four starters Last Tuesday the. boopsters , - scoring in double figures. were- victorious over local Freshman guard Rebecca Skidmore rivals,. ·Although down Clemente had sixteen. points, · by two points at halftime they Cay Lynch had fifteen and Julie pulled away for a 58-43 win. Miller and Patty Richards each Julie Miller led the team with had foutteeii. · twelve of her nineteen points in On Saturday, Union the sec(>nd half and brought celebrated its first victory ever down five rebounds. Freshman over Williams. Union led most Patty RichardS also had twelve of the game due to a very ef· points and five r~bounds. Coach fective fast break and much Barta. mentioned that although hustling on defense. Freshman' sometimes looking quite strong forward Swette Collier ·came under the . boards, rebowuling off the bench to pun down a was something the team bad to team high ()f ten. rebounds. Cay work on. Lynch was high sco~er with The team faced Albany State twenty•one points, Rebecca Clemente had twelve and Julie Miller ha<f eight. · The statistics thus far reveal Union scoring an average of 58.2 points while their opponents are averaging 59.4. Miller leads the te!)m with a tot!ll of 19 blocked shots, 15 steals and· a 12.4 average. Lynch is avera·ging 13.8 points· and has 12 steals. Clemente has an average of 12.2 points per game .. Mip.er also leads w1th 47 rebounds followed · by--Richards with 28 and Jackie Tario with 19. Junior guard Barb. Bailey leads the t~am in shooting· percentage, hitting 80 · percen,t from the floor. Brenda Hugick, the sole senior, .provides stability . and leadership, while freshman Maureen O'Day contributes to the young team's depth. Coach Barta. is very op- timistic about the remairider of the ~ea$on and ~opes to co\!e back from thu:~ weekend s Binghamton Tour.nament victoriolis. - c: -

