r.::n ._ Ill .Q c: Ill '(/) 0 a: .~ c: c: 0 IX! > .Q 0 ... 0 ..c: a. C~lll, No. l() Dean of Students Joseph Mammola FireStrik By JAN BARAN Assoc. News Editor On Thursday, December l, 1983, a serio11S fire occurred at approximately 5;30 p.m. in Hickok House. The fire was contained to room 212 in Hickok, occupied by sophomores Steven Marx· and Andrew Sole. The cause of the fire was deter- . mined to be a very small menorah candle which tipped ·, over while the students were out of the room. The heat detector inside the room went off very shortly after the fire started alerting both the fire depart- ment and secmity. The fire department ex- tingUished the fire very quickly by using a ladder to gain access to the window. The fire remained within the room because of the new well- structured doors in Hickok House. These doors prevent the passage of srnoke and flames underneath the doors. The lack of smoke in the hallways facilitated the removal of students from the building and caused less damage. Extensiv~ Damage • uary 12, 1 984 ckok effort. Forum AddresSes Issues The extensive damage in room 212 consisted of bulging walls, black soot everywhere, and a total loss of personal items. tess: serious damage occurred in room 206 because of excessive water. Most of the repairs were complet~d during the vacation for winter term occupancy. Only one rug still needed to be cleaned, according to the security report. On the eve of the fire, many of the students decided to spend the night with friends because of problems caused by the smoke . Almost all of the Hickok residents returned to their dorms by the next day. Because the two students violated a section of the housing code which states that \candles and other flame-emitting ar- ticles\ are prohibited in college- operated residence halls, they have been reprimanded by the Dean of Student's office. Dean of Students Joseph Mammola, however, commented that the acts .of lighting the candle and leaving the room were \careless but unintentional mistakes on the part of the students.'' He and Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa, both recognize in their conduct decision the \sincere in- tentions\ of lighting the candle as part of a religious service. The severity of the fire and the circumstances surrolUlding its cause have raised many questions on the part of both the students and the ad- ministration. One question arises from the fact that this fire was committed because of a religious act (lighting the candle in a. college-operated dormitory) that was in violation of college housing policy. Wood commented that t11e College has no intention of interfering with the religious beliefs of its students; but when the practice of that belief has the potential for endangering the lives of students in an entire dorm, then, he added, the College needs to assert its position. By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Features Editor After a hiatus of four weeks, the Student Forum resumed meeting. Numerous issues of \Old\ and ''New\ business were discussed. As is the usual procedure, . committee reports were given. Because the Trustees, Student Affairs Council (SAC), and Academic Affairs Council ( AAC) had not yet met, no news was reported. One item of note was, however, introduced by the Committee on Conduct's chairman Jared Squires. A position on the Conduct Com- mittee is now available for this term because of the temporary leave of absence of one of its members. It was noted by Squires tbat this is only~ a temporary replacement of the po·sitiori. Applications for said position will be due by January 19. · Vice President for Finance Ben Hecksher presented and went over the minutes of the last Finance Committee meeting. Hecksher announced that Senior Representative to the Forum Tim Smith has left Union, creating a vacancy on both the Forwn and Finance Committee. BLASRequests Money A request came from BLAS for additional money for receptions and maintenance fees. The total request was for $100. Hecksher then proposed a motion to the Forum for the additional allocation. A vote was taken withthe motion being passed unanimously. At the last Finance Com- mittee meeting, the Speaker's For•.1m prtJsented a request . for an additional $3,000 in funding for speakers. This request was passed by the Finance Com- mittee and Hecksher made a motion on the issue. A vote was taken. with the allocation being . passed unanimously. It was then noted by Hecksher that there is a total of $3,213 remaining in unspent Student Activities monies. This is not including a $5,000 contingency fund. Hecksher noted afterwards that WRUC's Record Hop overspent in one area of their budget by $120.53 •. It had ex- ceeded the allotted amount of ·its purchase orders. Money was then transferred to this area of its budget because. of its high first term income. 'I'o avoid a repetition of this type of overspending, the Finance Committee adopted ~ policy in which the maximum quantity of money to be spent with a .pur- chase order will be written on the purchase order itself. Lastly to be announced by Hecksher was the receiving of a thank-you note from the Cheerleaders. The Forum also received a similar·note. Andy George then proceeded to bring up the first item of 'Old Business'; namely, Freshman Chapel, or as it is now called ''The President's Banquet to the Freshman Class.\ The event, which is to be held January 24, will be held in Hale House and the Old Chapel eXtension. After an initial welcoming speech by the President, a special dinner will be served by Director of Food Services Jan Gray. Following the dinner, talks by President Morris and Forum President Winthrop Thurlow are to be given. The focus of these short, yet infomi.ative speeches is to be involvement in student activities and the structure ·and function of Union'S student government. Special 12 oz. wine glasses will be given to each attending member of the class of 1987. After being in contact with Dean Mammola on this last item, it was decided to split the cost of the glasses three ways: one-third to be paid each by the Forum, the Dean's Office, and the President's office. Andy George then made a motion· for the Forum to allocate its share of the money; $350. This motion also passed unanilnously. Moving on to 'New Business', the date for Freshman Representative Elections was set for January 27. Split Winter Term Discussed The Committee on Union Education (CUE) is presently investigating the possibility of a split Winter term. Normally, Union holds three unbroken ten~ week terms. The new plan proposes that Union begin the year approximately tw? weeks earlier than normal. This would allow Union to begin Winter Term shortly after Thanksgiving. Winter term would be held for three weeks, then break for a Christmas vacation ( more in line with that of other schools), and then resume afterwards for the remaining seven weeks. A two- week vacation would then occur between the Winter and Spring terms, with the academic year finally coming to . a close no later than June 1. Presently the plan is in the discussion phase, with departmental input being receive.d.. In._ addition, the Forum is quite interested in student opinion. As a result, they will be polling students next Monday in Carnegie. In addition, two meetings are to he held to discuss the issue on the same date: one at 4:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge, and the second at 10:00 p.m. in the Student Forum Room, fourth floor Carnegie. All are encouraged to attend. Voting record on page 3 The Director of Security and Safety Clifford Wood, com- mented on .the fire department's \extremely professional handling\ of the situation. He praised it for saving the building and more importantly, the lives of all the occupants. The firemen received com- mendations from their fire department for their superior To remedy this potentially damaging situation, the Dean of Students hopes to work with the Jewish Student Union (JSU) on campus to . provide group Continued on page 3 This was the scene in Hempstead, L.l. as hundreds of Union loyalists.gathered_ for a seco~d Mme.coming to watch the Dutchmen trounce Hofstra iA the playoff dnve. Desp1te the loss m the Natidnal Championship 913me, the sign tells hollil we feel about our football team. I DOL IN CONCERT Page TEAMOF 7 THE YEAR Page 16 .... 1- QJ .0 0 ~ > .0 0 ..... 0 .c: a.

.. >- ..:.:: tl) - 0 .... 10 m c: 0 ., >- .0 0 .... 0 .c: Q. Pagel CRT consoles monitoring Burroughs computer operations. CONCORJJIENS/S, .Janua(r 12. 198;J Computer Center Changes By L YNNIIANO Staff Students returning to the computer center this winter will notice the few but evident changes in the set-up of the facility. There is a new en· trance, only half•way down the hall on the Steinmetz ground floor. The student consultant area has moved and is located in room SH1l9. Receptionist Pat Tuccillo's office has been relocated to SHU5. All faculty output previously picked up at the reception desk will now be available at the Computer Operations window. Software packets can be checked out t;hrough the ConsUltant Office with a valid I.D. card. These changes are part of a long term plan to improve the serviCe areas for the computer users on campus. The new consulting area has a waiting · room, a service counter, .and is connected to the office of Theresa Pardo, the Technical Information Analyst who . began on OElcember 9 with the release of the Request for ProP<)sal. · (RFP) to four ven~ .. ···· ' dors: DEQ, HP, . IBM, and SPERRY. The RFP provides guidelines to the vendors outlining mandatory, optional, ana desirable requjrements of both hardware and software. Proposals for systems must be submitted no later than February 3rd to facilitate a selection by April 2oth. Delivery will be scheduled for late in 1984. . . CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS supervises the copsulting program. Services available at the counter include assistance with progtarru:ning problems, reference materials for each of the computers, and. software for the mieroc()mputers located in Steinmetz Hall. According to Pardo, ''having the consultants inside the Center has. really improved our ability to help users in less time with better information.'' The final selection will be made by the Vice President for . Academic Affairs, who will be adyised by the Director of Computer Services. In turn, th~y will both be advised by a faculty task force which will be involved with all phases of the evaluation process. Members of this committee are BUl Aubrey, ,John Boyer,_ Jqdith Ginsberg, Doug Klein,· and Doug W()ng. Also on the task force are Dwight Wolfand Mark Wysoski. Please contact one of· these individuals ff you have questions or concerns about the new computer system. Funds ·Donated to the Adirondack Research Center The Schenectady Foundation has donated $2,000 to the Adirondack Research Center at Union. The funds will be used to cover publication costs of a recently released book by Norman VanValkenburgh, The Forest Preserve of New York State in the Adirondack and Catskill Mountains: A Short History. VanValkenburgh is vice- chairman of the Adirondack Research Center and director of lands and forests of the State Department of Environmental Conservation. Additional gift to the Adirondack Research Center this year inclriae $5,5()0 from the Knox Family Foundation, $3,500 of which will aid in the marketing of the documentary film \The Adirondack--The Land Nobody Knows.\ The remaining $2,000 is for purchase of additional research books for the research center's collection. The center also has received a total of $2,500 from the Association for the Protection of the Adirondacks and the American Wildlife Research Foundation. The Adirondack Research Center collects data and research materials on the more than 2.5-million·acre Adiron- dack Forest Preserve of Nor- theastern New York State, and distributes information to a scientific and scholarly audience as well as to the general public. In accepting the above con· tributions, the center's chair- man, Dr. Thomas Cobb, said: \We are delighted by the. support from all of these organizations and foundations which allows us to continue our important work. As we ap- proach the lOOth anniversary of the Adirondack Forest Preserve in 1985, Van- valkenburgh's book, the films, courses, seminarS and other materials we are able to offer will all help to educate a broad audience about our wilderness heritage.\ All materials collected at the Adirondack Research Center, housed in Schaffer Library at Union, are available to the . public during library hours. In addition, a list of consultants with the Adirondack Research ~nter is available for further information on specific topics. Two Foundations Matc/1 Grant A $200,000 matching grant has been received· by Union from two national foundations-The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation and The William and Flora :Hewlett Foundation. Notification of the awards was sent to Union President JohnS. Morris by Hewlett Foundation President Roger W. Heyns and Mellon Foundation President John E. Sawyer. The one-for-three grant and matching funds are to per• manently endow a Presidential Discretionary Fund, with the income to be used for in- stitutional renewal, primarily in the areas of faculty and curricular development. The College has a three-year period in which to raise the matching ftmds. ''I am pleased to express my gratitude for these outstanding expressions of support for the Union faculty and cuiTiculwn,\ President Morris said. \Our teachers, and the subjects they teach, are the cornerstones of this College. Support such as this is a guarantee of present excelle:qce and a promise of greater strength in the future.' 1 Among potential uses of the fund income are in· terdisciplinary curricular programs, particularly those designed to integrate the studies of technology and the humanities or discuss the im- pact .of political philosophy on public policy. Examples could be a yearly seminar involving five to eight faculty members from various departments and a series of faculty summer retreats or study groups. The grant could also provide travel funds for facuity members for conferences with colleagues engaged in similar research at other colleges and universities. Other projects that couid receive consideration for support are special, one~tenn sabbatic leave programs for jWlior faculty members who have successfully completed a third year review and the review of various Colleg~ progr~ms by teams of distinguished academicians from other campuses. Distribution of the fund is at the dis~retion of the president, and could address a number of other College needs that evolve. The Hewlett Foundation is based in California and provides funds for education, performing arts, environment, hllltlan services, and population studies. The Mellon Foundation,. based in New York City, makes grants on a selective basis to .institutions in higher education, ,. cultural affairs and the :per- forming arts, and in certain environmental arid public . af· fairs areas. Trust Scholarship Established The Schenectady Trust .Company has set Up a charitable trust scholarsmp at Union, according to Harry E. Whittingham Jr., .chairman and chief executive .of the bank. · The gift was made in recognition of the importance of undergraduate studies to our society's future. The scholarship will · be awarded on an annual basis to undergraduate students whose family residence is in the greater Capital District. Initial awards will be made in the freshman year, with recipients eligible for similar awards in subsequent years, subject to the availability of funds. In the initial year of tlie scholarship, however, recipients will be chosen with apf>'roximately equal distribution among the four class years. Recipients must meet the College scholastic requirements for eligibility for financial aid. Selection criteria include need, academic excellence, and pr_omise of significant con· tributions to the public good. \We are very pleased with Schenectady Trust's interest in the students at Union,\ said Union President John S. Morris. \It . represents a vote of con- fidence in the liberal arts education students receive at our College, and also indicates Schenectady Trust's continuing involvement and pride in the conununity.\ Genetics and Alcohol Conference at Union ''Genetics and the Human Encounter with Alcohol\ is the topic of a conference to be held July 6 and 7, 1984, at Union in Schenectady. Cosponsored by Union and the Society for the Study of Social Biology, the conference will include paper presentations on current research in the field, as well as a poster session and final round table discussion. Topics to be covered include an historical review of research on heredity and alcohol until the mid-twentieth century; animal models and the genetics of alcohol . consumption · and dependence in animals; hwnan research, including familial distribution; gentic correlates and the search for mechanisms, including metabolism and the genetic influence on respi>nse to alcohol; and the multivariate imperative, inclUding multivariate designs in gene- alcohol research. For further information and conference registration, contact the Office of Graduate and Continuing Stu4ies, Union College, One Union Ave., Schenectady, N.Y., 12308 (518- 3700288) . Lamont Professor to Visit Union Geoffrey Ashe will present a lecture, \New· Light on .King Arthur,\ on Thursday, January 19, in Old Chapel at 8:30 p.m.· Admission is free and the public is invited. The actual construction in- volved very minor changes. Two new walls were built in a reception area to create new offices, and several doors in tbe new service facility were equipped with glass windows. Wayne E. Holt, Director of Computer Services, noted that \the December rennovation project was just another step in the Five Year Plan to improve · campus computer services. More changes can be expected in the upcoming year/' U.C. Computer Services - The process of selecting a new general curricular time-sharing computer system formally U.C. Computer Systems - · New systems software was installed Thursday and Friday, the 15th and 16th of December. The following list indicates software that was successfully installed: Eunice v3.1 (simulator of UNIX operating system); VMS v3.4 operating system; Pascal v2.2 compiler update; arid FORTRAN v3.4 compiler update. Go To West· By SHERRYWEITZEN and NORMANBIRNBACH Staff West College Dormitory's entrances were renovated over winter break. Walls were repainted, floors retiled, and - glass doors repl~ced West Dining Hall's dingy metal ones. The changes were made, said Directo~ of Food Services Jan Gray, because Dean of Students Joseph Mammola felt that West was too dark and depressing. Steps to improve West were taken last spring when Gray approached Frank Griggs, chairman of the civil engineering department, to ask for help from his department. Seniors Earle Stokes and Steve Chapman worked with Professor Gilbert Harlow to evaluate the dining hall as it was and to make suggestions to improve the atmosphere. This fall term they surveyed the students who eat there. Gray selected the best proposal. Gray had believed that the dining hall looked like a grade school's, but wants West to \fit Union College's image\ better and to be a \more positive environment.\ West serves the largest population, she said, so she wants \to give them the best possible service.\ One way is having students using the dining hall's south entrance, which gives . students enough room so that they will no longer have to wait outside before entering. .Additional plans include getting new · carpeting, new tables, and more comfortable chairs; setting beverages up differently; and perhaps, cooking some of the food to order. On this Monday afternoon, January 16th, the Student Forum will set up a table in Carnegie Hall to poll students on the proposed split Winter Term. In addition,. two Forum meetings are to be held later that day, at 4:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge, and at 10:00 p.m . .in the Student Forum Room, fourth floor Carnegie. All are welcome and en- couraged to attend. CONCORDIENSIS . -·· Meetings every Tue-sday Night at 7 p .. m~ AllthQSe i11terested are welcome ~ \\ f. I ( s t ~ ~ s b a f s s ll tl fJ t: y g ( ll 11 a d 11 d s a 11 r c p n .. s· b tl c a ] Vl A L: PI D PI S< yt G L rE a h~ m R4 Q as Di fo1 Of ve

J CONCORDIENS!S; Jan11ary 12. 1984. Page 3 President's Bcinquet to be Held for Freshman Class By LDNDA M. RAFFAELE Staff On Tuesday, January 24, a special dimler will be held for the Class of 1987 beginning at 5:30 p.m. at Hale Jiouse. Uppercclassmen will eat at West College for that evening. The dinner will be semiformal and students will be served by waiters and waitresses instead of in the· usual cafeteria style. Tablecl<>ths, candles, and flowers will also be used to create~ a festive atmosphere. · Invitations will be Sent out next week. Reorientfreshm.an class The idea for the cUnner was first brought before the Student Forum on October 3 by Andrew George~ one of the three sophomore representatives to the. Forum. George, a mechani<Jal engineering major, had twQ objectives in mind in suggesting the dinner. First, he believed that January would be a good time to re-orient the freshman class to Union and its student · government, and secondly, to. increase voter participation for the election of the freshman representatives from . the class of 1987. In recent years, voter par- ticipation has dwindled to only 30-35 percent of students ac- tually getting out to the polls. Considering that Union is a small school, the percentage should be higher, George feels that, \It is disheartening to s,ee -that a community of two thousand people has less voter participation (percentage-wise) than a nation with over two hundred million citizens.\ After dinner, the class will be addressed by President Morris, pr,esident of the Student Forum Winthrop Thurlow, and Director of Alumni Affairs Harry Demgen. Topics to be discussed include: the role of the Student Forwn, purposes and.goals of the college, and the right and duty to vote. . . Many people- have been in- volved in the preparation for this event. George has been working with Dean of Students Joseph Mammola and Assistant Dean of Students Robert Viassa, Demgen, and Director of. Food Services Jan Gray. \They an received the iaea well and have been very helpful,\ says George. The dinner was originally scheduled for January 22 until it was realized that the 22nd is Super Sunday. The· dinner was supposed to start at kick-off time. \We did not want to burden the freshmen with such. a big decision between both AFairHearing One of tbe -most important, yet least publicized student groups on campus, is the Conduct Committee. It is a hearing board composed of nine members, whose intent is to asc.ertain the facts of disciplinary cha:rges, and then make recommendations for dispositi<m to the Dean of Students. The Committee is not a legal entity, and its hearings · need n()t conform to the requirements .of criminal or civil procedme. Hence, the plirpose of the Conduct Com- mittee is to provide the accused \' students with a fair hearing before their .peers, to give them the opportunity to respond to chargesr and to question their accusers freely and openly. The pjne-member group is composed of full-.time Union students only, with the assistant Dean of Students serving as an advisor. Selection to the Conunittee is open to all Union students. The makeup of the Conduct Committee is reflec- tive of the needs of the College community at a given time, but generally the most objective, perceptive, and committed applicants are selected. ·· . A temporary position on the Conduct Committee is available, and interested students are encouraged to apply through the Forum's Committee on Committees. Applications will be accepted until Thursday,January 19, arid may be submitted to the Dean of Students' Office. \ Position Sought By EMILY LOOSE Staff Just after Thanksgiving vacation Chip_ Morris, former Assistant Director ofResidence Life, left U riion to accept the position of Assistant to the Director of .Fiscal Affairs· at Potsdam College of Arts and Sciences. Morris came to Union four years ag<> from a position .of Graduate :Assistant at St. . Lawrence.UniversiW where he received bis Master's in Counselor 'Education. Mortis had been promoted last sum- mer . froPl .the ·position of Resident Development Student Coordinator to his position .as ·assistant to Dave Wood, the Director of Besidence Life. In pursuit of a replacement for Morris, the Residence Life Office has Circulated an ad- vertisement of the job opening and gathered a pool of · canD didates from which four ap- plicants are currently being considered. The Residence Life Office is anxious to fill the position which, explains Dave Wood, will undergo modification as the new assistant steps in. Where Morris held general responsibility for the coordination of Resident Advisors the new assistant will assume specific responsibiJ!ty as coordinator of West, Rich· mond, and :North donnitories, livihg m West and holding direct . building responsibility of that donn. Through this more intimate involvement with_ both the pressures of ~heRA position and the affairs of the students, the new · assistantship shoUld establish an empathetic relationship between the Residence-Life Office and Union students. · events,'' joked George,. So the dinner was changed to the 24th. Since fraternities and S9rorities serve dinner to their pledges on Tuesday nights, Massa will speak with house presidents . about changing their plans just for the 24th. · It is hoped that the evening is weU attended. With all that is planned, plus a few extra smprises, it promises to be fun and informative for all. Sophomore Representative Andrew George - .Housing COde Violated Continued fro~ page 1 religio~ services next year. President ·Of the JSU Mike Factor stated that group ser- vice~ could be performed in the lounges of the dormitories and planned by some of the R.A.'s. Dean Mammola advocated this concept and stated that these services would provide a \wonderful opp9rtunity_ to share a religious e~rience with otper students.\ Test of Smoke Detectors Another questii()n raised by the fire wasthe operation of the heat and smoke detectors. This fire provided the first serious test of the detectors since the complete security check of all fire alarms last term. The Director of Security and Safety noted that the quick reaction of the heat detector within the room saved the building from much damage and prevented serious injuries. In addition, he explained that the damage resUlting from the fire would have beenmuch more serious if the room had exploded because of the intense heat and pressure within the room. . . . the acts of lighting the candle and leaving the room were \careless but unin- tentional :mistakes 011 the part of the students.\ Mammola mentioned that the immediate cooperation from the · students in Hickok House would probably have been less possible if there had been more false alarms set by students last term. Consequently, Mammola _ reminds students that setting false fire alanns results in suspension of housing Ferraro to discuss new roles ••• privileges. A final consequence of the fire was the concern over lighting any type of candle in the room. The Schenectady Fire Department even issued a candle safety alert to Schenectady residents after the fire at Union to caution them about the usage of candles during holidays and celebrations. Mammola also issued a caution to students. Although candles do violate college housing policy, candles will still continue to be used by students on campus. Con- sequently, he urges students to place the candles in non- flammable containers and not to leave them unattended. Short of prohibition, and full security checks, he realizes the \need to appeal to a person's sense of responsibility\ to prevent future fires from occuring on the College campus. Women E-:atering Politics On Thursday, January 19 at 7:30p.m. in Social Sciences 016 Congresswoman Geraldine Ferraro (D.-NY) will deliver a public lecture on \The Future of Women in American Electoral Politics.\ Congresswoman Ferraro, whose 9th Congressional District is in Queens, was first elected to Congress in 1978. She currently serves on the House Budget Committee, Public Works and Transoortation Committee, an<l Select Committee on Aging. Ferraro has been described by Congressional Quarterly as ''the most influential member ·of a new generation of women in the House who are comfortable - as feminists and yet skillful at worldng with the traditional power structure ... In 1981 she served as a member of the Hunt Com- mission, which revised the Democratic Party's presidential nominating procedures. In recent months she has been mentioned in the press as a potential vice presidential candidate. In the House she has been involved with such issues as women's economic equity, increased federal support for mass transit~ tougher s:;~fety requirements for the shipment of radioactive waste, preser- ving flextime work schedules for federal workers, and im- proved social services for senior citizens. Ferraro is a graduate of Marymount College and For- dham University Law School. She was engaged in the private practice of law from 1961-1974, at which time she became an Assistant District Attorney in Queens. In that capacity she headed the Special Victims Bureau, which dealt with child abuse, domestic violence, rape, · and crimes against senior citizens. When she ran for Congress in 1978 she was given little chance of victory by political insiders, but scored a major upset, winning with 53 percent of the vote. By 198!:; she had strengthened her hold on the district to the point that she won with 73 percent of the P)te. Congresswoman Ferraro's lecture will be followed by a question and answer session. Her appearance is sponsored by the Political Forwn and the Political Science Department. Voting Record for Forum Meeting of Jan. 9, 1984 Member BLAS $ Spkrs. Fm. $ $for glasses Squires Hecksher Viglielmo Midoneek Parsons Rodgers Brand. Laux Simon · Colsman George Siler Danziger Bogen y y y y Arrived La_te y y y y y y y y y y y -Y y y y y y y Absent from meeting Abs~nt from meeting y y y y y y y y y y y

Eager students camp out on steps of Carnegie waiting tor tickets to Billy 1 dol. Le Nouveau Club It has too often been the complaint of many students that the Arts and Humanities are suffering at Union. In reply to this accusation, a group of ambitious French students have joined to create \L'Union Francaise,\ a \toute nouvelle\ French cultural organization. ~Co-directed by seniors Brian Pattison and Jodi Cohen, both modem language majors, with a helping hand from ProfesS()r Helen McDermott, the group has high hopes and big plans for the winter and spring terms. Currently it is petitioning the student government for official club status. Although lack of membership has gotten the club off to a slow start, its members are eagerly awaiting the return of students from the Fall term abroad in Rennes, France to fill out their ranks. · The \Union\ aspires to being more than a traditional French Club. One of its primary goals is to promote cultural awareness at Union by collaborating ef- forts with other language clubs. On the agenda for 1984: An international banquet and folk fest, a French bistro cabaret, a mardi gras, a wine tasting seminar, and a possible trip to Quebec City, Canada to sup- plement the traditional dinners, films, and French lunch table. L'Union Francaise welcomes any interested students and faculty regardless- of their background in French. For more information call 37()-6869 or 370-8748. FEATURES Returning ! : News' In Brief By BOB VAN VORIS Staff Campaign '84 White House aides ar-equoted as saying that the President was greatly enc()uraged by his ,, popularity. rise following the U.S. invasion of tbe tiny island of Grenada and. pl <ms to highlight this military success in a speech announcing his candidacy for reelection. ex- pected sometime in February. According to White House Communications Flirector David Gergen, Reagan hopes to show that he is \unafraid to take the risks which are dften . necessary to insure America's survival.'' To demonstrate his resolve, the President plans to \beat the .piss out of an eight· year-old blind gkl'l before the televised speech. A scheduling :foul-up placed Senator Jesse IIe)ms at a rally of jJlack senricemen luld at Fort Benning. Georgia for Democratic presidential candidate Jesse Jackson this past week. Th~ Senator, who has accused Martin Luther King of Marxism and who was once quoted as saying tllat he expected no black votes in his reelection bid was visibly shaken after fleeing the spe~ker's platform in apparent terror. Said Helms, ''Wllen I saw all those fellahs shaking their fists at me and shouting 'RWI, Jesse, Run~ •.•. well,. you better believe I did.\ Encouraged by the example of Presidential hopeful JQbn Glenn, porno star Linda Lovelace has announced her candidacy on the strength of her recently released film \The Right Muff .. \ Lovelace feels that she offers a viable alter- native to front runners Mondale and Glenn. ''Well., it's clear that John Glenn isn't as big as he thinks he is-and I, for one, find. Walter Mondale a bit hard to swallow .. \ Polls: George McGovern;s standing has improved somewhat, possibly as a result of his announcement that he has received a long-sought en• dorsement from game show host Wink Martindale. The news is not so good for Gary Hart, though-recent polls show the Colorado Swnator trailing both Mondale and Glenn as well as a derelict U'amed Ray living in New York's ~Penn Station and the Cleveland road company of ''A Chorus Line.\ Big Brother Is ~atching Concordiensis is proud to announce that the above sub- title marks the millionth insipid reference to George Orwell''s classic 1984 made in recent weeks. These statistics corn- piled by Che accounting .firm of Jones, Aaronson, and R-ut._herford do not take- into accotu1t Iran (where the year is 1284) or tfie Soviet Union (where the book's title was recently changed to. \Your Government and You''). · The Body H1Ullan CBS has produced another documentary in its award winning series ''The Body Human,\ announced a network spokesman this week. Although the on~hour installment en- titled \Human Sex and Sexuality'' is not scheduled to air until February 14, it has already drawn consider.aple critiCism. Tbis is due, at least ig part, to the approac;!h brought to the series by newly hired producer ArthQr Silberberg. \We look at the whole thing as a sort ef anatomical 'Love Boat,'\ says Silverberg. \For e~ample, Olarles NelSon Reilly and Richard Simmons will dramatize the role of the testicles in, the production of semen.\ The program can be l?een at 9 p.m. ·Eastern Time, and will · also star Betty White, Richatd Dawson, and Jerry Mathers as the Beaver. Crimesolvers Four out of five oentists surveyed reconunend sugarless gum fortheir patients who chew gum. Concordiensis will pay a reward of fifty dollars to anyone providing information leading to t.he arrest and conviction of the man known only as ~'Dentist Nwnber Five.\ Going against. all the ethics and traditions of dentistry, this renegade dentist has been known to recommend · dangerous pastimes--among them genocide, arson, ·and masturbation-to his patients who chew gum. Any clue to the whereabouts of thib dangerous criminal sh9uld be reported to Crimesolvers c-o Leroy \Junior\ Burdell, Iowa Men's Correctional Facility, Tier 3, Block A, Grenell, Iowa 92736. Your identity will be kept confidential. Fly with the finest . • This is an excellent opportunity to prove your- Get your career off to a flying start. Become a Marine aviator. If you're a college freshman or sophomore you could qualify · for our un- dergraduate Officer Commissioning Program and be guaranteed flight school after graduation.·AII training is conducted during the Marine Corps Officer Selection Team will be on campus Jan. 16 & 1 7. For more information ... n1ntn1 .. t 1 Captain NW Donahoe at 342-2408 or 472·3640. sununer. There are no on-cam.pas drills. Plus, youTeceive $100 a month during the school year. Juniors and Seniors can qualify for the graduate Officer Corrunissionir~g Program and attend training after gradaation_ self amongst the best and start off making from $17,000 to $23,000 a year. See if you measure up. ~~~rw Check out the Marine Corps Offi- ~ cer Commissioning Prognims~

CONCORDIENS'J~: January 12. 1984 PageS FEATURES. 1983's Best ih Media By RICHARDS. BlEGEN Alas, anotber year has ended, and the newspapers and magazines are swamped . with Top Ten llsts and other salutes to the important events of virtually every field of activity. These articles are greatly anticipated, and are quoted from with great frequency (especially· -in movie ads). But it is a rare article indeed, which tries to look at the way the media covers the year's events. \'The media frames each event, magnifies.· it or diminishes it,. classifies it or discards it, praises it or criticizes it and tries tQ make it accessible to the gener.al public. So without ftn;ther adQ, here is an in- complete list of the events that the media has focused, on, the trends and the fads, the people and the happenings that distinguished 1983. 1983 Pop Song of the Year: ''The Safety Dance\ Fad of the Year: Caobage · Patch Dolls · TV News Show of the Year: ABC News Nightline Movie Event of the Year: \Flashdance\ (not \Retqrn of the Jedi\) 1983 Media Person of the Year Finalists.: Mr. T, Boy George, Teet Koppel, Eddie Murphy, Jesse Jackson, Jennifer Beals, James Watt · Political Flop of tbe Year: Gary Hart · Teeny Hoppers of tbe Year: Menu do Sportifig Event of the Year: The America's Cup yacht 'race {won by A_ustralia II) · Book of the Year: ''The Price of Powerr' (by Seymour Hersh,) Musical IDstniment of the Year: The Rhythm Machine TV Flop of tbe Year: Joanie Loves Chachi Most Praised Perf.onnance by an Actor: Jack Nicholson in \Terms of Endeannent'; Political Gaffe of the Year: James Watt, every time he said anything Avant Garde Artist who has been accepted by the · com- mercial world: Philllp Glass Most Dramatic Moment in Sports: Lorenzo Charles dunking a missed shot at the buzzer to make underdog North Carolina State the NCAA Bas~etball Champions .. Jack of All Trades Award {For preemirience in more than one medium): Sam Sheppard, for writing two off-Broadway \smash !lit\ plays, \Fool for Love\ and True West,\ and s~rring in \The Right-Stuff (as Cliuck Yeager). · Media Shut-Out Award: Ronald Reagan, for his press blackout during the Grenada Invasion. TV Miniseries of the Year: \Vietnam A History\ -Pop Music Trend of the Year: Top 40 Funk Sports Flop of the Year: The New York Yankees (again!) Haley's CometAward (for the media personality whose star is falling· most rapidly): John Travolta · It's About Tinie: A black Miss America (Vanessa Williams) and a black Presidential can- didate (Jesse Jackson) Most Influential Art Exhibition: Edouard Manet, A Retrospective (New York AMERICAN MARITIME STUDIES FALL SEMESTER 1984 or SPRING SEMESTER 1985 Accredited by , · WILLIAMS COLLEGE . . Taughtat MUSICSEAPORTMUSEUM ESPECIALLY'FOR sTUD~ INTERESTED. IN AMERICAN STUDIES BIOLOGY LITERATURE ECOLOGY HISTORY PUBLICI'OLICY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT-AL STUDIES OCEANOGRAPHY The Program Offe~s qualified undergr~J:duat~s the opportuni~ t? !oc~s one semester of the1r studies· on our rela~umshipto tile sea. While livmgm cooperative houses at America's let~ding tnai'.itlme museum, students take foilr Williains·accredited courses in history, literature, oceanography or ~rifte ecology and mari11e policy. The' Program. in· eludes pi'actic;H instruction in boathandling, celestial navigation, boatbuildlng, and shipyard restoration, along with a twelve,-day offshore reserarch trip on board the schooner R!VWestward. A .program representative will 1Jieet with stuqents on Wed., Nov. l6 at 1:30 p.m. in the Science and Engineering Bldg., Rm. SlOO. For in- . formation see Dean WilliaJil Daniels'. Q£fice, or write: Director, Williams•Mystic Program, Mystic Seaport Museum, Inc., Mysticl'.Conn. 00355 . Metropolitan Museum) Movies That Were Virtually Ignored, bot Should' Not Have Bee.n: ''Rumblefish\ and \Koyaanisqatsi\ Political Trend of tlte Year: Making cameo appearances on prime time TV shows (Ron and Nancy, llenry Kissinger, Gerald Ford, and Tip O'Neill all did cameos) Artistic Trend of the Year: Making very ex;pensive, very professional music videos. Silver Surfer Award (for riding the wave of the artistic trend <Jf the year): Michael Jackson Athlete of tile Year: Martina Navratilova (who only iost one match all year, while winning 56) Media Flop of the Year: \The Right Stuff' • ( whlch is a sen- sational movie, but whose box office returns have not lived up to its pre-release hype) Probable 1984 Finalist: George Orwell Media Event of the Year: \The Day After\ Media Personality of the Year Runner-Up: Ronald Reagan Media Personality of the Year: Jesse Jackson Financial Aid Applications Now Available at Becker- Hall Dea,dl ine: March 1 Entrance to new lower level housing: .A Move Downward By DAVE FITZGERALD Features Editor For a number of years ap- proximately 50 incoming Fresh- men have been forced to live in the often dreaded \five man suite.\ With the new rooms in the basements of Fox and Davidson Dormitories com- pleted, it is hoped that this situation will not have to occur again. Fortunately for all of the residents of the new rooms there have only been minor problems. In an interview with Dave Wood, Director ofthe Residence Life Office, he expressed his pleasure with the new rooms so far. For the first time since he has been here a parent has approached him and told him how nice the rooms were and how neat the dorms looked. One parent even asked him when the college would start tripling the new rooms. Wood's answer was that this was not going to be done. According lo Wood, a special attempt was made to make these rooms very pleasing to the students living .in them. The physical environment of the student can have a very profound impact. To make these now rooms more pleasant, careful attention was paid to the design of the rooms. Longer and wider halls, different wall colors, and the larger size of these double rooms make them unique. Wood believes that these rooms are the largest doubles on campus. It is hoped that the design of the basement rooms in Fox and Davidson will promote interaction between the residents of the' basement rooms. When the lmmge fur- niture arrives the new floors will even have their own lounges. . While the situation for Fresh· men is improved, Sophomores will still experience many of the difficulties with the lottery . system that they have had in the past. The ratio of Freshmen to Upperclassmen on the new floors will be about the same as in all of the other dorms. When an RA of one of the new floors was ~sked for his im- pressions he generally gave a very positive impression of the situation. Although he did say that his room was pink. Now that the new rooms in Fox and Davidson are complete, many students will begin to benefit from a better housin~ situation. Issue of the Issue By .niDI PHILIPSON Staff Editor's Note: In this section of Concordiensis Issue of the Issue will be posing questions of current interests to the students. This week the students that live on second . floor West College were asked a question. In future weeks other dorms and fraternaties- sororiti.es. will be asked questions. Question: What is . your opinion of having the drinking age raised from 19 to 21 years c,f age? . Michele Packer '87-\. . . it shouldn't be raised because there is not that much dif- ference between a 19 year old and a 21 year old.\ Betsy Treltler '86-\ . . . Yes, because ~i the drinking age is raised, it lessens the nuinoer of inexperienced drivers who have been drinking, on the road. These younger drivers are more apt to get into accidents. . . \ Diane Duffy '86---\They shouldn't because it is not fair to penalize that age group-they shouldn't enforce the age now, not raise it.\ Tony Pallone '87-\ ... I think it would increase the over- population problem because less people would be dying from drinking accidents. Steve~ Urblnato '87~\. . . I think it's ridiculous. The pr~bl~m is not 19 to 21 people drmking, but the problem is to stop people driving while they're drunk.....,make stricter penalties. I live in New Jersey, and I've seen it work.\ Last term the Features section covered tnany interesting aspects of Union College and the many people that study and work here. If you would like to be a writer just call6155. ·

P41!.!t.' 6 CONCOR/J/I:':V\'1.\', .lant#IIT /2, /9/U. FEATURES Does This Reporter Report? By TED KENDRIS Staff This reporter spent several minutes of research in order to find the answers to certain questions. The first question is: \What is this article about?\ The second question: \Why do I call myself 't)1is reporter' when I don't even know what it is to be a reporter?\ The third and final question: \Where the heck are my leather gloves?\ I'll answer the· questions in numerical order. Why? Because there may just be some thought behind this . article. Maybe, for once. I'll write something which people can read and think about. Maybe I will have a positive effect on another human being's life. What is this article about? It's about three hundred words. That's how much ~pace Dave said he had left in this week's issue. · Am I really a reporter? I really don't care. In fact, I joined the .newspaper staff just for the pizza on Tuesday night. Well, you must be about ready to can reading this just to read \News in Brief.\ Then again, you've probably already read that stuff. In that case, why am I still writing? I .guess it's just so that I'll be able to see my name in print. Don't worry, though. I realize that if you're still reading this senseless garbage you're probably in .some lecture or bathroom stall and have nothing better to do. Well, dear reader, I have a surprise ·for you. I'm going to wind up this entire fiasco right now. That's right. Now you'll have to turn the page and read'the classified. Then, perhaps, you'll have time to read the names of the Con· cordiensis staff . . . In conclusion, I'd like to conclude. However, I'll have to answer my final question. Where are my gloves? I left them with my hat Wider my seat when I left SS115. I remembered a while later and returned to find my hat but no gloves. I suppose there is a moral to all this. There must be some connection between this collection of words and the whereabouts of my gloves. One person on this campus knows half of the answer. But where does that leave you and me, my friends. Out in the cold, I sup- pose. Albany Seminars Offered The Capital District Chapter of the New York Association for the Learning Disabled presents tile following seminars to be conducted at the Sheraton Airport Inn, 201) Wolf Road, Albany, New York. Seminar leader for all the seminars is Dr. Lawrence T. McCarn>n, a clinical psychologist with ex- tensive experience. January 30, Vocational Assessment, Behavioral Intervention Strategies and Entry Level Job Placement for the Learning Disabled- Neurologically Impaired, who should attend--Vocational RehabilitatiQn . Counselors, Evaluators, Personal A d j u s t m en t T r a in in g Specialists, Special Education Teachers, Learning Disabilities Specialists, Placement Specialists, Psychologists, and other Human Service Professionals .. Fee-$50.00. January31,-Working with the Visiually Impaired Person with Suspected Learning Disabilities. Who should attend- - Vocational Counselors, Evaluators, Placement Spe- cialists, Teachers, Psychologists and other Human Service Professionals working DISCOUNT PRICES COOPER C.C.M. KOHO BAUER TITAN TRI-CITIES' FINEST SKATE SHARPENIIG LdstOGK SPORTING GOODS MON.· FRI., 9 P.M~ 382. 2031 SAT., 'Til5 · • · · DOWNTOWN SCHENECTADY Also visit our shop --- Northwc:ly Plaza · Glens Falls with the Visually Impaired. Fee-$50.00. February 2 and 3;...Training in the Interpretation of Vocational Assessment Information: A Case Study Approach. Who should attend-Anyone involved in vocational assessment, ex- perienced in the use of the McCarron-Dial System of assessment or interested in improving your skills as a vocational evaluator. Fee-- $150.00 per person. Multiple registration from your agency or school: $125.00 for the second person, $100.00 for the third and each additional person. NOW OFFERED IN: • Long tsl•rld • Upst•te NV • ManhaHan • ·westchester ~NeW Jersey C. ontactloca.lly: ,.. . Beih Swartz (518) 465-17~ . . : GUARU'r££: . •.: • : · Scare in the top 25% or tab the next ADI. 1 aH· I :course FREE. · · ~~or with National i Inc. 4 DUTC!!u~c9~~~! PUB Kitchen Saturday Breakfast ...... 7:30a.m.- n:OO a.m .. Dutchman's Night· Reservations only Lunch .. ~ ... , . 11:30 a.m.-1 :30 p.nt Seatings 5 p.m., 6p.m., 7 p.m. Dinner . _ ....... 5:00p.m.·7:00p.m. Bar Monday and Wednesday .... 4:30-7:00 Watch for oilr Weekly Daily Special5 in Food Service Tuesday .............. · ....... 4: 30-? Thursday ............ · .... , . 4:30-? Friday ..•.•................ 4:30- ?· Saturday ..•..............•. 9:00-?· Weekly Forecast. Full menu avoilablefor Dinner , Oxfain' s Fast This year in this world .of plenty, at least 15 million people will die of hung,er related causes. More than ·half will be children under the age of 5. Another 700 million people . in Asia, Africa and Latin Amer:ica will live in abject poverty. These poor and hungry people are working hard to impto.ve their own lives. \\But they lack access to land, credit, tools and training. Bring hope to the world's hungry. Fast for ameal or a day or just from j.unk food an~ donate your food money to Oxfam America. Ox:fam America is a non-profit in• ternational agency which funds self-help development programs in Asia, Afica and Latin America. It joins with other organizations to edUcat~ Americans about the cause of hunger here and abroad. Oxfam began in England in 1942 as the Oxford Committee for Famine Relief, and has since gained a global reputation for innovative yet realistic development aid at the grassroots level. Ox:fam America was fQundl:!d by a group of volunteers in 1970 to respond to the desperate con- ditions in Bangladesh.. Today there are six autonomous Oxfams. The others are in Canada (2), Australia, Belgiwn and Great Britain. Oxfam America is non- sectarian and receives no government funds, choosing to rely solely on contributions from individuals· and groups. The Campus Ministry Office and several campus organizations are Rarticipating in Oxfam America s \Fast for a World. Harvest Program.\ Thursday, January 19, will be \Fast for World Harvest at Union.\ · Food Service has offered to participate in a rebate plan. Students on a meal plan will be able to sign up at tables at West, Hale the Skeller and Carnegie Lobby, January 9, 10, 12 and 13 respectively. Student organiZations, fraternities and sororities c&n do so as a group. On January 19 cash con- tributions will also be accepted at West, Hale, the Skeller, Carnegie Main Lobby and at the Library circulation desk. Everyone is being invited to participate in this activity, either as an individual or where there is agreement, as·~ group. If you missed the ()pportunity to sign up at West or Hale be .sure to look for the Oxfam table m carnegie Lobby on the 13th. In conjunction with the Oxfam America fast, dated Thursday, January 19, 1984, there Will be a collection of non- perishable food. A box will be .placed in each fraternity, sorority and co-op durmg the week of January 16~19, and will be collected F'riday, in the evening, of that week. We ask that each house contribute what it deems possible. For more information please call Tricia Pasqualini. at 37~863. ........... I 1.11.1 I 1 .. 1.1 I J · UNION COLLEGE THURSDAY,JANUARY 19th RUPSIS .TAVERN Cornet Carrie & Hattie St. (1 block north of Nottst. Entran<:e to U.nion College) Union College *WINTER SPECIALS* Mond,ay Nites Genny Cream drafts 25¢ pitchers $1.50 our 11 famous\ chili. dogs .. so<: plus free pool Wednesday N·ites Bud & Miller Lite Pitchers $2.00 soc off cdl mixed drinks plus free snacks

CONCORDIENSJS, Janua(r 12. 1984 Page7 THE ARTS Tra.nslafion·s The Idol Performs By TOll DIMMICK Brian Friel's Translations by the Capital Repertory Company at t11e Market Theatre, Albany, is being performed untH January 22. Once again Capital Repertory is sponsoring an outstanding show. Usually the first in the area with a new idea or per- spective on drama and the stage, this performance upholds the tradition. Translations is not only an engrossing play but one with .a unique viewpoint en the subject. The setting is a small village in. Ireland around 1833. The modest lives of the villagers are not as Simple as one might think. They are poor enough. to worry about where the next meal will come from, yet they study and .speak Greek and Latin at the local Hedge school. This combination conjures up an interesting picture of a peasant working in the fields, muttering Ovid under his breath. Here William Carden is particularly appealing as Manus, the lame· scholar who is in love. Jeff Leabow is Yolland, an English lieutenant whose romantic desires to belong and be loved make his appealing and comic. Overall, the actors are convincingly alive, so much so that it is difficult to find yourself not' involved. Overshadowing this stable life is the inevitable invasion of the English· culture. The English Army crosses the land with maps in hand; changing to English and \civilizing\ the ancient ·traditional names for Irish towns, hills and streams. Unfortunately, the people of the land are not oonsulted in this name changing. The villagers are confused and resentful of the unwilling rape of their culture. Amidst these conflicts, one of the soldiers, Lieutenant Yolland, of the English Army, falls in love witlt Mire, a young woman of the village. His love for her e~ends to her culture, so the English soldier sets out to learn the Irish way. The more he learns, the more he realizes the abommation of what they are doing. The play deals with the heart-rending problems he faces gently and with humor. Translations is unique in its portrayal of the Irish people. Uusually, when literature deals with the Irish-English conflicts all that is mentioned is the blood, the brutality and the horror. Here we see a gentle and humorous people who love their life, instead of misin .. terpreting these same people as barbarous and resentful, as was the English point of view. Candid yet deep the villagers see very well what is happening to themselves. Yet how can they :g communicate any un- E derstanding to the English _g through the language barrier? I- A great deal of the conflict, and ~ l... from when the title comes, is - the difference of the two g languages. c.!> Translations deals with a E potentially gloomy subject in a s hilarious and . still touchiitg -§_ performance. The characters are well · portrayed and work together naturally. It is a play worth seeing for several reasons. I£ you get the chance, make the trip up State Street to the Capital Repertory Co. You will enjoy yourself. ByTODDIMMICK Billy Idol will be at Proctor's Theatre Friday, January 20, at 8:00p.m. Billy Idol, with his un- conventional and startling mUsic, should put on a great performance. Not only is he a well known and popular musician, but he is very cUf- ferent in style and message than many other groups. There should be a large audience, because in this concert, Idol will local music audiences. Billy Idol was one of the original punk-rockers of the 1970's in England who were startling the nation with their new ideas of music. Among those Idol associated with were members of The Clash, The Sex Pistols and The Banshees, among others. The idea of these musiCians was to get music moving again in new directions. At that point .in the 70's, ac- cording to Idol, the current rock stars had ceased to be Billy Idol in concert .)an. 20 at Procter's be able to utilize both the effects of his albums and his reputation from his MTV videos. This concert may be an example of the impact MTV has made on imaginative, instead con- centrating on money. Punk rock would soon alter this trend. Billy Idol's original band was named Chelsea,. and ·then renamed Generation X. Generation X's.Iast get together produced \Dancing with Myself,\ a song which is ex- periencing a popular second life today. Generation X broke up after being together for only .four years. Billy Idol continued on his own. It was at this time in the United States that he saw the necessity for change in punk ,rock. According to Idol: \Punk rock was about changing . . . and the new movements were just into superficial fashions or into copying American black music. So I decided to go where the music they were all copying was coming from ... New York.\ Since coming to the United States Billy Idol has released several albums including Billy Idol, Don't Stop and his newest release, Rebel Yell. Don't Stop has been on the top 100 on the LP charts. His top 40 songs have included \Hot in the City,\ \White Wedding\ and \Dan- cing with Myself.\ But just because these cuts are top 40 does not necessarily mean that Billy Idol is a pop artist. His songs are unique, and are often quite strange when compared to other songs or messages of the same popularity. He sings of dark dreams and inner thoughts, with a candor that can be shocking in the way it rips away veils. Idol's view is that every feeling, not matter what, should be exprE'ssed. Billy Idol has been described as singing with \an angry, youthful urgency\ by The Record. His concerts are supposed to be great, and Friday the 2oth at Proctor's should be well worth the trip. So get prepared and be ready for a night with one of the best! UNION COLLEGE CONCERT COMMITTEE ANDSKIDMORE ENTERTAINMENT . PRESENTS BILLY IDOL Friday, January 20th • 8 p.m. Proctor's Theatre, Schenectady Lover's Quarrel Guidelines for Dutchman's Night Reservations • Reservations for Dutchman's Night will only .be accepted at the P.izza Pub during normal business hours Monday through Thursday. • When 'making reservations all persons or meal cards must be p.resent. This is to insure proper reservation taking. • The party must be booked all at once, this wiU insure a better dining atmospt'lere. We cannot accept 11 maybe\ reservations. • Cash reserva,ions are welcome. Those who wHI be paying for dinner, please pay at the door. • A person m.ust bring hiS-her 1 D, meal card and entry ticket at Dutchman's Night. If these are not present, a person cannot be seated. • Anyone caught using· another individual's I D, meal card or dinner ticket will be turned over to the director af food service. Me'al card andiD will be taken. · ' • Because of a large dining room turnover, we ask that you be prompt for dinner. This will insure an easy turnover, and no waiting for people at later seatings: The first Dutchman's Night fo.r winter term will be Sat., Ja.n. 14, 1984. Management of the Dutch Hollow Pub Ballet Classes Ballet classes will begin at Union College the first week of january, taught by Michael Steele of The Ballet School, Saratoga Springs. \Beginning Ballet\ Will meet for 10 Fridays from 5:30 to 7 p.m. starting Jan. 6. \Inter- mediate Ballet\ begins Jan. 3 and meets Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7:15 to 9 p.m. This is a continuation of a fall class at Union, but new students with some previous dance experience are welcome to join at this time. All classes will meet in the Arts Building, Union College, Room 202. Michael Steele has studied with Balan chine, Tudor, Robbins and Glen Tetley. He danced for 11 years with the New York City Ballet, reaching soloist status before becoming principal dancer at the Cologne Opera House in West Gennany. He toured all over the world dancing in \Green Table,\ and was also a soloist with the Hamburg State Opera House.

~~~-------------------------------------(~~~JN_··~(~V~R~D~I~f~~V~.~~·r~~~.l~u~q~~~\~':~l·_l.~'·-'-98_~_· __ ~------------------------------------ (/) .:.: u 10 (f) w 0.. >- .0 0 0 <llnnrorbirnsis FormJ,cJ at Utuon roJ/egt 1877 ------------ ----------- New Tradition Begins Congratulations to Andy George and the Student Forum for initiating what will hopefully become a tradition at Union. On January 24, the class of 1987 will attend the \President's Banquet.\ The objective of this event is to re-orient the freshmen to Union and its student government. After a term of adjustment to college life it is hoped that the members of the freshman class will now feel a part of the Union comnumity and seek to become involved in student activities. With past voter participation down to one- third of the student population, perhaps this event will also motivate students to vote in the. Freshman Representative Elections coming up on January 27. It is hoped that this event will be the beginning of an end to student apathy. By promoting invalvement in the school, the campus community will be drawn together and the sense of pride in our school will be renewed. · Old Traditions End? \Where have all the students gone?\ This question is often heard in the Dutch Hollow Pub lately. And the answer that is obvious to everyone is ''To off-campus bars!\ The real question is \Why?\ Four years ago the Dutch Hollow Pub and the Rathskellar were the social gathering places for the campus community. Changes became apparent last year when both the Pub and Skellar were forced to remain closed on certain weeknights because of lack of business. The situation appears to have worsened this year as even more people are going off-campus. What is drawing them there? Is it drink specials . . . the new drinking age ... boredom with the same old thing? Regardless of the answer it i~ o~vious ~hat something must be done to renew social life at Umon. If the current trend continues, not only will the Pub and Skellar become mere memories, but students driving home from off-campus bars will inevitably lead to danger. Since both the Pub and Skellar are operated by the Union College Food Service, plans to promote drinking will probably never be enacted. However, those students who do occasionally in- dulge in a drink (or two, or three ... ) will continue to find places at which they can do their indulging, regardless of College policy. Thus, it is not that we believe that on-campus bars should promote drinking, but that they should should promote a social life on campus. M1!Li .I:. • c. . ,,, LETTERS Football Te,am Co.ngratulated To the Editors: I would like to congratulate you on a brilliant and exciting season. It is particularly rewarding to me to see such a quality program develop and emerge in the context of ex- cellence in t:ne academic arena. The pursuit of excellence should be a style of life n()t merely' confined to one area of en· deavor or one program in a college. Balance does not mean compromise, and you have displayed that fact admirably. You are all a credit to the C!Qllege, to the community, and most importantly, to your- selves. Well done! Sincerely, RudyV. Nydegger,Pb. D. Associate Professor & Chair . Letter From An Editor To the Campus Community: - This is the first term in nearly two years that I have not served as an editor of Concordiensis. The term of my most recent position, eclitor:..in-chief, ended last trimester, and I chose not to seek re-election. I wish to thank. all students, faculty, administrators and friends who helped to make my involvement with this newspaper enjoyable and worthwhile. My participation in . Con- cordiensis bas not ended completely, though, as I hope to contribute articles ;md com- mentaries from time to time. Julie and Donna, our new. editors, are well experienced with the operations of this paper. My best wishes to them· and the Concordiensis staff for su~cess this term. Sincerely Doug Landon Letter Rebuke·d To the Editors: This is in response to \Another Viewpoint\ in your 3 Nov. issue. The author of this letter has a frightening viewpoint. He does have a valid argument with regard to gra-ffiti. Framing Chester , Arthur's carved name does seem to indicate that such actions are appropriate if one feels that one may .become famous in the future. One's name does not condone deriding another's beliefs by defacing posters, nor does it condone vandalism to security cars, computer terminals, dorms, or 'any · other public or private property. . I am saddened to be reminded that people attend Union with attitudes like \name withheld.\ Damaging anything, including fellow classmates, is not and never will be a \valid ex- pression of anger.\ It is too bad that \name withheld\ was not strong enough tQ identify himself so that people who do not agree with his attitudes could \validly express\ their anger at him. · I hope that those who feel vandalism is an acceptable action will realize that it is not before they graduate from Union. I also hope that those who can witness such irresponsible acts and not speak olit against· them will realize that silence is as much a negative mark on Union as the vandalism itself. Union students-stop being so concerned with grades and yourselves: show some pride in your college and its campus. If everyone speaks out against mindless vandalism, Union can turn out graduates in wr..ich it may rightfully be proud. · Sincerely, .TlDl Carroll '83 One Light Still Needed. To the Editors: Some time ago, an editorial sky. Hopefully, this will reach was written and published in applicable eyes and proceed Recently, six new lights were Concordiensis on this v.ety positively. Until then, I remain installed on campus: two each subject and, although I am disappointed in this institution's for the Social Sciences and unsure of the date or even year continued negligence and Humanities buildings and two of publication, it seems I have disrespect for this country. for the Schaffer Library, each waited-watching every phase directing their effulgence on of construction and upkeep at Sincerely, their respective bit of time- Union-to one day see our 'fhom.as J. Siragusa c.c. '83 specific, copy-architecture. ..,.:.n::;at:::;io::.n::.:'s:.:fl:.:a~g:..:li~·g:::ht;:e~d=::in=:t:=h::e.==========-=•• During my four·yeal\s at Union College, I saw a multitude of lights installed. The purpose of most of these was to provide safety and security for women (through the efforts of Women's Network) as weUas men. This is all well and goOd-no ob- jection here-but all lights for non-safety purposes should fall second to one non-safety spotlight. That spot is the one that shines-not on our American flag on campus: · Lowering and raislng the flag each day would not be too great a task either. However, I enjoy a 24 hour flag-a lowered flag gives me the feeling that our country is sleeping. If raising and lowering the flag each day is such a pain in the, uh, neck, then I suggest that the in· stallation of a spotlight. Set it up to a timer or solar-activated switch and there you go-no more worries and it looks nice too. And what abQut the unwritten law about keeplng a raised flag lighted at night? Legally, even a slap on the hand could not but ... Anyone interested in being on the Senior Fling Committee Please attend the first meeting on Wednesday, Jan. 18 at 4 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. All Seniors and un. derclassmen are welcom.e! Help make Sen lor Week the best ever! - ...., - - UJ P1 Cll bil Cc re pu wi p,, di: Stl Ar inl in po po to· we to thl thl die se1 (a' th; fOJ pa all Vii CO! fig t Bi' ab po: hi E re• Pr an elE pre rec

Pa~.:l' X --------------------(-'(-JN_'_<_v_R_J_)f_J_:·.\-·._\1_.\..;.: _J_un_u_\_; -'--'·-'-f)_H_.J _____________________ _ w 0. >- .D 0 .,_ (J!nltfllrbirnsis Fo~Ulfbd al l !,lion Coli~~ 187~ ------- New Tradition Begins Congratulations to Andy George and the Student Forum for initiating what will hopefully become a tradition at Union. On January 24, the class of 1987 will attend ~he \President's Banquet.\ The objective of this event is to re-orient the freshmen to Union and its student government. After a term of adjustment to college life it is hoped that the members of the freshman class will now feel a part of the Union community and seek to become involved in student activities. With past voter participation down to oneQ third of the student population, perhaps this event will also motivate students to vote in the. Freshman Representative Elections coming up on January 27. It is hoped that this event will be the beginning of an end to student apathy. By promoting involvement in the school, the campus community will be drawn together and the sense of pride in our school will be renewed. Old Traditions End? ''Where have all the students gone?\ This question is often heard in the Dutch Hollow Pub lately. And the answer that is obvious to everyone is ''To off-campus bars!\ The real question is \Why?\ Four years ago the Dutch Hollow Pub and the Rathskellar were the social gathering places for the campus community. Changes became apparent last year when both the Pub and Skellar were forced to remain closed on certain weeknights because of lack of business. The situation appears to have worsened this year as even more people are going off-campus. What is drawing them there? Is it drink specials ... the new drinking age ... boredom with the same old thing? Regardless of the answer it i~ o~vious ~hat something must be done to renew soctallife at Umon. If the current trend continues, not only will the Pub and Skellar become mere memories, but students driving home from off-campus bars will inevitably lead to danger. Since both the Pub and Skellar are operated by the Union College Food Service, plans to promote drinking will probably never be enacted. However those students who do occasionally in- dulge in a drink ( o~ two, or three ... ) wi~l c.ontinu~ to find places at which they can do their mdulgmg, regardless of College policy. Thus, it is not that we believe that on-campus bars should promote drinking, but that they should should promote a social Life on campus. 112!i&IJII!-··~ 0 .t:. 0.. LETTERS Football Team Congratulated Te the Editors: I would 1ike to congratulate you on a briUiant and exciting season. lt is particularly rewarding to me to see such a quality program develop and emerge in the context of ex- cellence in the academic arena. The pursuit of excellence should be a style of life not merely confined to one area of en- deavor or one program in a college. Balance does not mean compromise, and you have displayed that fact admirably. You are all a credit to the College, to the community, and · most importantly, to your- selves. Well done! Sincerely, Rudy V. Nydegger, Ph. D. Associate Professor & Chair Letter From An Editor To the Campus Community: This is the first term in nearly two years that I have not served as an editor of Concordiensis. The term of my most recent position, editor-in-chief, ended last trimester, and I chose not to seek re-election. I wish to thank all students, faculty, administrators and friends who helped to make my involvement with this newspaper enjoyable and worthwhile. My participation in Con- cordiensls has not ended completely, though, as I hope to contribute articles and com- mentaries from time to time. Julie and Donna, our new editors, are well experienced with the operations of this paper. My best wishes to them and the Concordiensis staff for success this term. Sincerely. Doug Landon Letter Rebuked To the Editors: This is in response to \Anoth.er Viewpoint\ in your 3 Nov. issue. The author of this letter has a frightening viewpoint. He does have a valid argument with regard to graffiti. Framing Chester Arthw-'s carved name does seem to indicate that such actions are appropriate if one feels that one may .become famous in the future. One's name does not condone deriding another's beliefs by defacing posters, nor does it condone vandalism to security cars, computer terminals, dorms, or any other public or private property. I am saddened to be reminded that people attend Union with attitudes like \name withheld.\ Damaging anything, including fellow classmates, is not and never will be a \valid ex· pression of anger.\ It is too bad that \name withheld\ was not strong enough to identify himself so that people who do not agree with his attitudes could \validly express\ their anger at him. I hope that those who feel vandalism is an acceptable action will realize that it is not before they graduate from Union. I also hope that those who can witness such irresponsible acts and not speak out against them will realize that silence is as much a negative mark on Union as the vandalism itself. Union students-stop being so concerned with grades and yourselves: show some pride in your college and its campus. If everyone speaks out against mindless vandalism, Union can turn out graduates in which it may rightfully be proud. Sincerely, Jim Carroll '83 One Light Still Needed To the Editors: Some time ago, an editorial was written and published in Recently, six new lights were Concordiensis on this very installed on campus: two each subject and, although I am for the Social Sciences and unsure of the date or even year Humanities buildings and two of publication, it seems I have for the Schaffer Library, each waited-watching every phase sky. Hopefully, this will reach applicable eyes and proceed positively. Until then, I remain disappointed in this institution's continued negligence and disrespect for this country. directing their effulgence on of construction and upkeep at Sincerely, their respective bit of time- Union-to one see our Thomas J. Siragusa C.C. '83 specific, copy-architecture. ,2!n~at~io~n~·s~~~~~i~n~th~e~~~:::;;;;;;::;;;;;;;::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ During my four years at Union College, I saw a multitude of lights installed. The purpose of most of these was to provide safety and security for women (through the efforts of Women's Network) as well as men. This is all well and good-no ob- jection here-but all lights for non-safety pw-poses should fall second to one non-safety spotlight. That spot is the one that shines-not on our American flag on campus; Lowering and raising the flag each day would not be too great a task either. However, I enjoy a 24 hour flag-a lowered flag gives me the feeling that our country is sleeping. If raising and lowering the flag each day is such a pain in the, uh, neck, then I suggest that the in- stallation of a spotlight. Set it up to a timer or solar-activated switch and there you go-no more worries and it looks nice too. And what about the unwritten law about keeping a raised flag lighted at night? Legally, even a slap 0n the hand could not result, but ... Anyone interested in being on the Senior Fling Committee Please attend the first meeting on Wednesday, Jan. 18 at 4 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. All Seniors and Un- derclassmen are welcome! Help make Senior Week the best ever! - - c UJ PI ca bh Co re pu wi Pr du Stl Ar in< in po po to• we to thi thi die se« (a' th! for pa all viE COl fi~ Br abl pol his re; Pr, an elE pre rec

CONCORDIEN.'il.\~ .JanutJr.r 12, 1984 . . Page9 COMMENTARIES Commentar_y-: The Futility Lingers New Doubts By PAUL GINSBERG Recently, Clifford }Jrown, Union College Associate Professor,. close pol'itical- campaign aide to, and biographer for former Illinois Congre~sman John Anderson, revealed in a college , publication that Mr. Ande~;son will assuredly enter the 1984 Presidential campaign. This disclosure, while curious, is not startling. After aH Mr. Anderson's candidacy was indeed pesky, if not impressive, in 1980 and accordingly his political instincts and his politician'.s natural proclivity towards self-indulgement, would be suspect if he chose not ·to give it another go. However, this century's most successful third party presidential can~ didate (T. Roosevelt excepted} - seeks not to pursue this quixotic (ad)venture alone. It appears that Mr. Anderson is planning to fotm a comprehensive third party-a group of politically allied, major party misfits, who view themselves as congressional aspirants. \ ... to fight.the invincible foe . . . \ John Anderson and Clifford Brown, captivated by an aberrant vision of American politics, have lost sight of historical and contemporary reality. Clearly, the Presidential election of 1980 was an anamoly. Although the electoral margin ultimately proved decisive, at no time in recent . history had the two major parties presented the American polis with equally unappealing candidates. The New York Times in its editorial endorsement captured the voter's dilerrun:a-a gun is put to a man's head and he is asked, Carter or Reagan? Choose; almost relieved, he replies, \Shoot!\ The alternative to this policide lay in the candidacy of Jolm- Anderson. He represented a way out, a means by which Americans could convey to the two major parties dissatisfaction with the existing choice. Asked in 1980 where Mr. Anderson stood politically most of his supporters would vaguely place. him somewhere within the ideological wasteland which separated Carter and. Reagan-- a moderate Republican many labeled him, whatever tnat meant. 'In short, a portion of America was ·captivated by an alternative. Not a candidate. Not a man. Not John Anderson. \ ... to Climb when your legs are too -weary -~ . .\ As for the ill•fated Sanchos who c·hoose to align with· Anderson in 1984, it appears the windmills they are to confront are the mightiest of all. Third party candidates have never fated· well in congressional elections. The institutional biases heaped against them are far too potent, and too numerous to detail. But third party stalwarts have insistently pointed towards recent growth among the nwnbers of in- dependent_ voters. Indeed, · Terms Abroad during 1964 to 1974 the per- centage of all voters identifying themselves as Independents, ·Independent Democrats, and Independent Republicans, rose from 23.5 to :37.5 percent of the electorate. This decline in partisanship would apparently bode well for independents seeking to unseat major party inclilnbents. In fact, the op- posite has proved true. Erikson stressed that ''because the recent increase in the .munber of Indep.endent voters has allowed the incumbent's viSibilityto,tip the balance in an ij:lcreasing number of voter decisions, the size of the in- cumbency advantage appears to have grown.\ There exists no evidence to suggest that any · further increase in Independent voters will translate to in- creased votes for Independent candidates. \. . . to dream the impossible dream.\ Mr. Anderson's ambitions, though impractical, are ad- mirable. There are many factors which suggest that a viable third party would benefit the American political process. And it is uplifting to hope that someday an alternative party will emerge and ascend to parity with the present two-- bringing with it innovation, fresh concepts, and political excitement. For now, we remain imprisoned by the system we have nurtured. As -for Mr. Anderson, his time had come-and gone. Applications are now being accepted for aJI Union Terms Abroad taking place in the academic year 1984-85. Terms to be offered are as follows: in the Fall Term, Rennes, France; Florenc~, Italy and Bath England. Juniors and seniors may also apply for the Union-York Exchange m Which five students are selected to attend classes at the College of Ripon·St. John in York while five of the York students spend the Fall Term at Union. . Winter Terms will take place. in Athens, Greece, on a kibbutz in Israel, and in Central Amen ca. The spring term will take place in Schyvaebisch·H ~I!, Gerr:nany. . . . . . . In summer, 1985, students will be able to partiCipate m the Soc1allzed Med1c1ne Program, 1n which they study health care institutions in several countries. Union Terms Abroad are open to all students. The terms cost about the same as .a term on campus. All financial aid and scholarships apply to the pr~gra.m. Many of the progra':ls have n'ecessary prerequisite requirements, (lnd students must mamtam at lec:~st a 2.0 average m order to particjpate. . . . . \I . 11 b A comprehensive meeting in Which all the terms for next year are descnbed 1n deta1 WI e held in January. _ · . Applications and information on the terms can ·be obtained from Joan Freemi;ln 1n _the Terms Abroad office, Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday from 9 a.m. to4 p.m. By MARCYBURSTINER Peace. What does it mean? I've always felt somewhat lost when it came to the arguments over the need for deterrence, the rationality of unilateral disarmament, the fear of total destruction, nuclear freeze, SALT I, SALT II, START, etc., etc. But ·then I came to college, and after many enlightening discUssions in PS 12 and my other political science courses, and after analyzing foreign affairs articles in the New York 'l'imes, Time magazine, and Newsweek, I still felt a little lost on the issues. Then I went away. I lived for three months in North England and suddenly the issue wasn't only a confusion of ideas, · bardline positions, idealistic dreams, and political ter- minology--it meant military bases, and missile silos rising up in people's back gardens. It meant . truck drivers having their vehicles used as targets by American fighter planes out on military maneuvers. It meant a friend pointing to an airplane overhead and telling me it was \one of yours.\ One of mine? Mine? My aircraft, my missiles? Living in a foreign nation for three months I had at first found that my feelings of patriotism had grown. Yes, damnit, I laughed, I was proud to be American. And yet ... I began to have my doubts~ Do \The States\ have the right to place missiles all over this tiny country barely larger than New York State? I · was asked whether I believed Reagan should have total control over the cruise missiles. Why shouldn't Thatcher have veto power over the use of missiles placed in Britain they wanted to know? Wasn't it true, they demanded, that the US and the Soviet Union planned to use Europe as a battleground in the inevitable clash between the two giants? Doesn't Reagan believe, they asked me, that it is actually feasible for such a war to occur without either power facing destruction? My only answer was that I did not believe it feasible at all. War over Europe, I answered, could Commentaries represent the views of the author and not the Editorial Board· of CONCORDIENSIS. All letters to the editor must be typed and submitted by 5 p.'m. each Tuesday before ,publication. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. ' 0 0 , 0 0 () 0 not occur without nuclear escalation. But again I wasn't quite certain. I . found that with all my political science background and my attempts to keep up with current events, I couldn't answer many of the questions put to me without doubting my answers to them. Deterrence, unilateral disarmament, nuclear freeze-what does it all mean? Where do I stand? I found my perspective of the US changed. It now seemed like a huge black shadow over Europe, powerful and un- predictable. I had previously only seen the USSR in such a manner. Then, two thousand miles from home, I read about the deaths of Marines in Beirut and the totally unexpected invasion of Grenada. I felt cut off and I didn't want to read the headlines in the International Herald any more. It all seemed more than a little frightening. What were we doing there anyway? What did it mean? Who were we actually fighting and what would happen now? Now that I'm back home my perspective of the States hasn't changed. I still see our power as frightening and unpredictable. But I'm still confused over the issues and I still take a moderate stance. I don't sup- port the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament any more than when I left home in September. I don't believe in unilateral disarmament and I still see deterrence as necessary to political stability. My view of the Soviet Union as a great threat has not changed. Yet perhaps I sympathize now a little more for those idealists I had once thought of . as dreamers left behind in the sixties; those people who want to do something even though the fight seems so futile. Perhaps I just find the world a little scarier now than when I left. It's easy to send cruise missiles all over the world, I discovered, when it's not your back gardens they're sitting in, and when you can drive your car down the highway without some US airforce jet using it as a blip on their radar screens. The Gaming Association invites you to Open Gaming Night Thursday, Jan. 12 7:00 • Banquet Rm. (bottom floor Carnegie) Dungeons & Dragons Gamma World Beginners. Welcome! I

l j I i 'i I I .\ I I I 1{ \ ~ { I · .... I t j :l I I . ' l I ) /~,. I, '! 1:1 r1f . n .. •( (I CONCORDIEN.\'IS . .Jmruar.r 12, 1984 Page 9 COMMENTARIES Commentary: The Futility Lingers f NewDoubts By PAUL GINSBERG Recently, Clifford Brown, Union College Associate Professor, close poHtica,l- campaign aide to, and biographer for former Illinois Congressman John Anderson, revealed in a college publication that Mr. Anderson will assuredly enter the 1984 Presidential campaign. This disclosure, while curious, is not startling. After all Mr. Anderson's candidacy was indeed pesky, if not impressive, in 1980 and accordingly his political instincts and his politician's natural proclivity towards self-indulgement, would be suspect if he chose not to give it another go. However, this centm·y's most successful third party presidential can- didate (T. Roosevelt excepted) seeks not to pursue this quixotic ( ad)venture alone. It appears that Mr. Anderson is planning to form a comprehensive third party-a group of politically allied, major party misfits, who view themselves as congressional aspirants. \. . . to fight the invincible foe . . . \ John Anderson and Clifford Brown, captivated by an aberrant vision of American politics, have lost sight of historical and contemporary reality. Clearly, the Presidential election of 1980 was an anamoly. Although the electoral margin ultimately proved decisive, at no time in recent history had the two major parties presented the American polis with equally !Ulappealing candidates. The New York Times in its editorial endorsement captured the voter's dilemma-a gun is put to a man's head and he is asked, Carter or Reagan? Choose; almost relieved, he replies, \Shoot!\ The alternative to this policide lay in the candidacy of John Anderson. He represented a way out, a means by which Americans could convey to the two major parties dissatisfaction with the existing choice. Asked in 1980 where Mr. Anderson stood politically most of his supporters would vaguely place him somewhere within the ideological wasteland which separated Carter and Reagan- a moderate Republican many labeled him, whatever that meant. In short, a portion of America was captivated by an alternative. Not a candidate. Not a man. Not John Anderson. \ ... to climb when your legs are too weary . . . \ As for the ill-fated Sanchos who choose to align with Anderson in 1984, it appears the windmills they are to confront are the mightiest of all. Third party candidates have never fared well in congressional elections. The institutional biases heaped against them are far too potent, and too numerous to detail. But third party stalwarts have insistently pointed towards recent growth among the numbers of in- dependent voters. Indeed, Terms Abroad during 1964 to 1974 the per- centage of all voters identifying themselves as Independents, Independent Democrats, and Independent Republicans, rose from 23.5 to 37.5 percent of the electorate. This decline in partisanship would apparently bode well for independents seeking to m1seat major party inctfmbents. In fact, the op- posite has proved true. Erikson stressed that ''because the recent increase in the number of Independent voters has allowed the incumbent's visibility to tip the balance in an increasing number of voter decisions, the size of the in- cumbency advantage appears to have grown.\ There exists no evidence to suggest that any further increase in Independent voters will translate to in- creased votes for Independent candidates. \. . . to dream the impossible dream.\ Mr. Anderson's ambitions, though impractical, are ad- mirable. There are many factors which suggest that a viable third party would benefit the American political process. And it is uplifting to hope that someday an alternative party will emerge and ascend to parity with the present two- bringing with it innovation, fresh concepts, and political excitement. For now, we remain imprisoned by the system we have nurtured. As for Mr. Anderson, his time had come-and gone. Applications are now being accepted for all Union Terms Abroad taking place in the academic year 1984-85. Terms to be offered are as follows: in the Fall Term, Renn~s, France; Florenc~, Italy and Bath, England. Juniors and seniors may also apply for the Unron-York Exchange rn which five students are selected to attend classes at the College of Ripon-St. John in York while five of the York students speRd the Fall Term at Union. _ Winter Terms will take place in Athens, Greece, on a kibbutz in Israel, and in Central Amerrca. The spring term will take place in Schwaebisch-Hall, Germany. . In summer, 1985, students will be able to participate in the Socialized Medicine Program, rn which they study health care institutions in several countries. Union Terms Abroad are open to all students. The terms cost about the same as a term on campus. All financial aid and scholarships apply to the program. Many of the progra':ls have necessary prerequisite requirements, and students must maintain at least a 2.0 average rn order to participate. . . . . A comprehensive meeting in which all the terms for next year are descrrbed rn detarl will be held in January. _ Applications and information on the terms can be obtained from Joan Freeman m the Terms Abroad office, Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. By MARCY BURSTINER Peace. What does it mean? I've always felt som~what lost when it came to the arguments over the need for deterrence, the ratioNality of unilateral disarmament, the fear of total destructian, nuclear freeze, SALT I, SALT II, START, etc., etc. But then I came to college, and after many enlightening discussions in PS 12 and my other political science courses, and after analyzing foreign affairs articles in the New York Times, Time magazine, and Newsweek, I still felt a little lest on the issues. Then I went away. I lived for three months in North England and suddenly the issue wasn't only a cenfusion of ideas, hardline positions, idealistic dreams, and political ter· minology--it meant military bases, and missile silos rising up in people's back gardens. It meant truck drivers having their vehicles used as targets by American fighter planes out on military maneuvers. It meant a friend pointing to an airplane overhead and telling me it was \one of yours.\ One of mine? Mine? My aircraft, my missiles? Living in a foreign nation for three months I had at first found that my feelings of patriotism had grown. Yes, damnit, I laughed, I was proud to be American. And yet ... I began to have my doubts. Do ''The States\ have the right to place missiles all over this tiny country barely larger than New York State? I · was asked whether I believed Reagan should have total control over the cruise missiles. Why shouldn't Thatcher have veto power over the use of missiles placed in Britain they wanted to know? Wasn't it true, they demanded, that the US and the Soviet Union planned to use Europe as a battlegroW1d in the inevitable clash between the two giants? Doesn't Reagan believe, they asked me, that it is actually feasible for such a war to occur without either power facing destruction? My only answer was that I did not believe it feasible at all. War over Europe, I answered, could Commentaries represent the views of the author and not the Editorial Board of CONCORDIENSIS. All letters to the editor must be typed and submitted by 5 p.m. each Tuesday before pub I ication. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. not occur without nuclear escalation. But again I wasn't quite certain. I found that with all my political science background and my attempts to keep up with current events, I couldn't answer many of tlle questions put to me without doubting my answers to them. Deterrence, unilateral disarmament, nuclear freeze-what does it all mean? Where do I stand? I found my perspective of the US changed. It now seemed like a huge black shadow over Europe, powerful and un- predictable. I had previously only seen the USSR in such a manner. Then, two th()USand miles from home, I read about the deaths of Marines in Beirut and the totally unexpected invasion of Grenada. I felt cut off and I didn't want to read the headlines in the International Herald any more. It all seemed more than a little frightening. What were we doing there anyway? What did it mean? Who were we actually fighting and what would happen now? Now that I'm back home my perspective of the States hasn't changed. I still see our power as frightening and unpredictable. But I'm still confased over the issues and I still take a moderate stance. I don't sup- port the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament any more than when I left home in September. I don't believe in unilateral disarmament and I still see deterrence as necessary to political stability. My view of the Soviet Union as a great threat has not changed. Yet perhaps I sympathize now a little more for those idealists I had once thought of . as dreamers left behind in the sixties; those people who want to do something even though the fight seems so futile. Perhaps I just find the world a little scarier now than when I left. It's easy to send cruise missiles all over the world, I discovered, when it's not your back gardens they're sitting in, and when you can drive your car down the highway without some US airforce jet using it as a blip on their radar screens. The Gaming Association invites y()u to Open Gaming Night Thursday, Jan. 12 7:00 • Banq11et Rm. (bottom floor Carnegie) Dungeons & Dragons Gamma World Begin11ers Welco1ne!

_A week of pink·Bermuda beaches and warm Bermuda suaL · · Are you tough enough to take ·it? One of our previous college visitors described this event as \a week of wretched excess:' An exaggeration perhaps, but not altogether inaccurate. Your week begins with a Sunday night Get Acquainted bash at one of our hotels, dubs or discos-meeting old friends, making new ones. The next morning, the tough part begins. Spending day after sun-drenched day on soft_, pink beaches. Swimming, tanning, body- gazing. Imbibing our special libations. Enjoy- ing free beach buffet lunches, free calypso and ste-el band waterside concerts, even a free cruise-..-all courtesy of the Bermuda Depart- ment of Tourism. . What will you do with your free time? What won't you do! Bermuda is famed for its snorkeling and sailing, tennis and golf. For its fine restaurants, discos and British pubs. And for its fabulous.mopeds~everybody's favour- ite way to tour the island. Think you can handle a week of this? Talk to your campus friends, and see your Campus Travel Representative or your Travel Agent for complete details. for more information, including a Bermuda College Weeks brochure, contad your Campus Travel Representative or your Travel Agent. - Couldn't you use a little BeniiKLi .~ - ~ ' . ~ .. '• ., '· - • a1 aJ dl til de Ir ii1 A PI $4 at th WI In AI m ·~ m pr th fi< bel In ne th if 'rE all co st b~ in' re· DE thl SlE tb tb tle l qu mj WE ce: tr~ j Ca pu ex ell CUI co stt tr~ th~ pa dol ha ce1 i Im ab mi ~ De gr1 reJ rec pr1 ha: Pe: l by De Th of 1 neE m~ 8C( vic

! CONCORDIENSI.~; Junuurr 12. 1984 Page II [ Capital News By JACKANDERsoN and JOE SPEAR WASHINGTON~Pentagon auditors have uncovered yet another poorly negotiated defense conttact that could cbst the taxpayers millions of extra dollars. The contract calls for Texas Instruments Inc. to supply iilfrared viewing equipment for Army tanks. The company proposed:· a total price of $479,741;625. But Defense Department auditor$ bave discovered what they term \$everal significant weaknesses'' in the way Texas Instruments estimated its costs~ Actually, that's putting it mildly. The auditors questioned $161,828,775 of the contract- more than_one-third of the total price. . It. would be comforting to think that the contracting of· ficers will .go hac~ to the bargaining table with Texas Instruments and negotiate a new contract one-third cheaper than the original proposal, But if past experience is any guide, Texas Instruments will get almost every penny it asked for. We've seen the results of a congressional committee's study of the Pentagon's bargaining techniques. The investigators studied contract reviews prepared by Defense Department auditors from 1966 through 1982. The congressional sleuths looked at every contract the auditors had questioned, then at the final contract set· tlement. For every dollar the auditors questioned, the hard~bargaining military purchasing officers were able to get just under-19 cents pared off the final con- tract. After Defense Secretary Ca&par Weinberger promised to put an end to the Pentagon's extravagant buying sprees and claimed major success in cutting out waste in 1982, the congressional investigators studied the renegotiated con- tracts for that year. They found that instead of getting 19 cents pared off for each questionable dollar, the Pentagon bargainers had been able to get only .10 cents knocked off in 1982. At that rate, Texas Instruments will get to keep about $145 million of the $162 million the auditors questioned. Meanwhile, Defense Department officials have granted themselves a 90-day reprieve from a congressional requirement that contractors provide warranties on the hardware they sell to the Pentagon. · · · According to a memo signed by recently resigned Deputy Defense · Secretary Paul Thayer, a three-month waiver of the warranty requirement ls needed. to ''ensure there is no· . major disruption to the acquisition of goods and ser- vices which are essential to meeting · national $ecuritY requirements.'' NEXT HOT SPOT?:. According to · intelligence sources, the South Pacific could well be the world~s next hot spot. There is a· \vacuum of Western influence\ in the islands which dot that vast area, say our sources, and the communists are moving in. Cuba has already set Qp a well- staffed embassy on the island of Vanuatu-\the former joint French•British protectorate of the New Hebrides that became an independent nation last year. And the Soviet Union has made political overtures and financial donations to tbe government of Fiji. SLOWDOWN . AHEAD?: In the tnQnths aheadt the White House will be putting more and more pressure on tbe Federal Reserve Board to loosen up on the n.atbn's :mOney supply .. The president's advisers are afraid the economy could ·start slip- ping back into a recession if the Fed doesn't ease up on its tight money policy. In fact, some economists believe a slowdown in the recovery is inevitable by July- j~ in time to make it a cam- paign issue. :So the Fed will be under pressure from the ad- ministration to put more money into circulation, even at the risk of future· inflation. POLITICAL POTPOURRI: Former Vice President Walter Mondale accomplished the nearly impossible in 1983: He maintained his status as the frontrunner for the Democratic presidential nomination for the entire year. But Ohio senator and former astronaut John Glenn l;las just begun a series of speeches designed to make his positions on the issues as well known as his name. The effort will peak with a mid-February foreign policy speech in which Glenn will attempt to position himself between the liberal Mondale and the conservative Ronald Reagan. -Earlier this year, many political observers thought the Democrats were a sure bet to . _ win back control of the Senate this November. But Republican fortunes are on the rise and some soothsayers even believe there could be a tie-50 Senate seats for each party~ If such an event silould occur, the vice president, as president of the senate, would cast tie-breaker votes and determine which party gets to name the majority leader and committee chair- men. SCANDAL OF THE WEEK: There is a major scandal brewing in the Navy over its new super-fighter, the F-A-18. The Navy wants more than 540 of the new jets over the next five years. Each plane costs about $20 million. But confidential Navy documents show that the F-A-18 is not the wonder plane it's suppDsed to be~ Its abiUty to perfonn bas \declined steadily over the last five months,\ states one recent document. Navy officials insist that the F- .A-18 is doing fine; but they won' be able to keep the lid on the scanda1 for long. Copyright; 1984 United Feature Syndica~e, Inc. Snow removal wlll take place in the Fox, . Davidson, ~west and Richmond parking .lots on Friday, January 13 at 8 a.m •. All cars must be moved to either the field house parking lot or the e~ntmuter lot acress from Beta. All ~ars not removed . wili be towed at the owner's expense! . COMME.NTARIES A New ByCRAIGL. SHAUll But what is the point of aU this? What is a birthday Without the singing of r'Hap])y Birthday\ or a wedding without the music ·Of \Here Comes the Bride\? Well, they are, still, a birthday and a wedding minus some of thejoy.evokingmusic. Just how important is the music of a particular celebration? I don't have any statistics on this, but who needs it? Haven't you ever cried at .. a wedding.? One cannot deny, that the music does its part to warrant tears or, at lea~, some elevated em.<~tion. Last spring I remained at Union to see commencement, and it really was quite nice. Tile library plaza was decked out, and campus landscapers saw to a beautiful floral display. In fact, everything was perfect except for the absence of that stage-settlrig piece, \Pomp and Circumstance. •• 1 was so looking forward to hearing it, but it was never played. Why? Now, don,t get me wrong,. the Schenectady Pipers were very- enjoyable to watch and listen to, and I understand that their performance is a tradition in and of itself, but can't room be made for \Pomp and Cir- cumStance?,, I suppose that some would think that Union has a primary claim to tradition as it is the fourth oldest school in the country. The tradition begins here. Ad.mitteqly, this is not the most pressing issue before the school. .However, I feel that it deserves some consideration. I would like to have \Pomp and Circumstance, played at my graduation. How about you? Please send comments to Box 1278. Crossword Puzzle I 2 3 17 32 36 By RICHARDBIEGEN Staff ACROS..~ I Unusual 5 Gig! star 10 Vending machine oraflee 14 Musical piece 15 Vital acid i 6 Serve a drink F Reagan F'ilm : 1941 20 Spot marker 21 Concierge's · C()ncern 22 Brass piece 23 Fat lJ. 24 Aesop ~st 26 Edgar Winter, fDr exarnple 29 Fit for Fido 32 GwTw Locale 33 Coherent reiiS()nlng 34 Maggie of song 5 6 15 18 21 36 Reagan Film: 1980 40 \ glance\ 41 Olivier to friends 42 Nova or Ray 43 Spears 45 Ancient re li glon 47 Chemical sUffiXes 4~ Space; Comb. fonn 49 Laissez follower 52 He spilt his seed 53 Beaver construction 56 Reagan Film: 198.1 60 Ready a gun 61 Works the land 62 Polish river 63 Di's in·law 7 64 Schenectady featare these days · 65 Hamlet was one ::>oWN 1 Re!(al feature 8 9 10 I I 12 13 16 19 22 2LJ. 25 30 31 35 3..9 LJ.2 45 tt6 2 Zenith n .. _- a prayer for me\ 3 Socially g!luche 32 Many legends 4 'Werner Erhard invention 35 ~laughter of baseball 5 Car Model · 37 FUled with glee 6 Change the rules 38 The other school of thought 7 Family disagreement 39 Festive event a Lehfion's love H Festive procession 9 Kin of neither 45 Model for Kane 10 CieB!Jing device 46 Sea bird 11 Louisiana family 48 J?arralax view 12 Greek apeertif 49 Maker of tenniswear 13 Something foxes do 50 Present and' accounted for 18 The Shah's favorite song'? 51 All-Tsar 19 Mick's ex 52 Leer licentiously 23 Prevaricator 53 Progressive art fonn 24 Falling, as in shoulders 54 Asian gulf 25 Andrew's sisters 55 Stud's target 26 \~ boyu 57 \-- A Wonderful Life\ 27 Pitcher Jeff 58 Nothing at Wembley 28 Edible fish 59 Cain's destination 29 Lots and lots ()f seconds 30 Spry fi'*~:~\~-..~)IIH~~~~~~~~-1 ~ · Student Forum Elections . I ~ Elections for one senior and two freshman representative positions I .1.·.·.'.~,. on the Student Forum will be held Friday# January 27 in Carnegie Hall. ~~ .. : .. _~-_ Petitions for intere.sted freshmen and seniors will be available from Mrs. Lorraine Marra, coordinator of student activities, beginning 1.. today. Each petition must be sig~ned by 100 members of the candidate's 1_',_,: class, and returMd to Mrs. Marra before the close of her office on J.t Tuesday I January 24. Each signature must be accompanied by the ti ~ correct stuclent I D number. ~ \1 .... -. ,'• ., '~~~~..J

Pagl' 12 ('ON CORDI ENS/.~: Janum:r 12. I 98.J CAMPUS NEWS TERMS ABROAD Opportunities exist for study in Japan durmg the fall term of 1984-85. The program includes living with a Japanese family, studying Japanese, and taking at least three additional courses related to East Asia. If you are interested in learning more about the program, please see Professor Thurston, SS213b. Junior year at a German University-Applications will be received until January 31 for Union's German University Exchange Program sponsored by the Federation of German- American clubs. Candidates should be sophomores well on their way, to a good working knowledge of German. One, or possibly two students will be chosen to participate in the exchange program. For more information and application forms, contact Professor Warde in HU 211. Modern Israel will be the focus of a .special academic summer program sponsored by the State University of New York. Only a limited nurn:ber of students can be accepted, and early application is recom- mended. For specific details about the 1984 Academic Program in Israel, write Department of International Education, SUNY Summj:!r Program in Israel, State University College, Oneonta, New York 13820, or telephone Office of International Education, .. 607-431-3369. CAREER JNFQ The Foreign & Domestie Teachers Organization needs teacher applicants in all fields from Kindergarten through College to fill over six hundred ' teaching vacancies both at home and abroad. Should you wish additional information about our organization, you may write the Portland Oregon Better Bustness Bureau or the National Teachers' Placement Agency, UNIVERSAL TEACHERS, Box 5231, Por- tland, Oregon 97208. Graduate· Studies in Biomedical Research Basic· Medical Science Department, Active Research Programs, Seeking Qualified Applicants· Tuition and Stipend Support Available Fo~ Further ln- . formation Contact: Graduate C0111ntittee DepartMent of Physiology Albany MeaiCII College Albany, N.Y~ 12208 (518-445·5651) RECRUITING Open Recruiting Sign-Ups . Open sign-ups for compames with remaining interview slots will be held as follows: January 16-Companies recruiting in Weeks 3 & 4 of winter term. January 18-Companies recruiting in Weeks 5 & 6 of winter term. 8 a.m.- noon Strauss Lounge CAREER WORKSHOPS Thurs., jan. 12, Videotapes on liberal Arts, Interviewing 3 :'30 Marketing the Liberal Arts 4:00 The Interview 4:30 Interview Follow-up Thurs., Jan. 12, International Careers Panelists include: Steve Abba '79 - Export Sales Represen-· tative, Sch'dy Chemicals, Inc. Pamela Viglielmo '82 ·-- Perf0rmil)g Arts Department, The Asia Society Walter West - Foreign Ser- vice Officer Prof. Byron Nichols -- Political Science Dpartment, Moderator MOCK INTERVIEWS Mon., Jan. 16, 3:30-5:30 p.m., SS010 . Tues., Jan. 17, 3:30-5:30 p.m., SS010 Wed., Jan. 18, 3:30-5:30 p.m., SSOlO Thurs., Jan. 19, 3:30-5:30 p.m., SS010 SELF-ASSESSMENT Tues., Jan. 17,7:00 p.m., Fox Lounge & HU117 Wed., Jan. 18, 7:00 p.m., Davidson LoWlge Thurs., Jan. 19, 7:00 p.m., Richmond Lounge & West 2nd Lounge Fri., Jan. 20, 7:00 p.m., Rich- mond Lounge & West 2nd Lounge Please Note: The editors of the Campus News Page would like to introduce a \Ride Board': column. If anyone has any inform~tion please submit to CONCORDIENSIS, Box 2577, in care of Campus News. FINANCIAL AID l . Financial Aid applications are now available for 1984-85. Please pick up yours at financial aid off.ice in Becker . Hall. · (Remember you must reapply every year.) FAF's must be mailed by March 1 sa· that aU forms are received by the April 15 deadline. \~. . SCHOLARSHIPS Applications for the 1984-35 Pennsylvania State Grants for Pennsylvania residents are now · available in the Financial Aid Office. Phi Chi Theta FoWldation is offering $1 ,000 grants for 198485 to women pursuing Bachelor's and Master's programs in business and-or economics. The application deadline is May 1. Further information can be obtained at the Financial Aid Offic~. The Jewish Foundation for Education of Women is a non- sectarian organization that offers need~based .grants and interest-free loans. Information · and applications for 1984-85 can be obtained by writing to the Foundation at 120 West 57 Street, New York, N.Y. 10019, by January 31, 1984. Delta Delta Delta is con- ducting a scholarship com- petition for undergraduate women for 1984-85. Applicants are considered on the basis of academic record, ex- tracurricular activitie~ and community service, promise of service to their chosen field, and financial need. Applications, which must be submitted prior to Match 15, are available in the Financial Aid Office, Dean's Office, and · from the Tri Delta Service Projects Chairman on this campus. The American Society . of Naval Enginners is offering non-need-based awards to WRUC SPORTS EXCLUSIVES! DUTCHMEN HOCKEY Union vs. Geneseo Friday Night \' Coach's Corner Pre-Game Show Begins at 7:15 p.m. Union vs. Salem State This Tuesday Coach's Corner Pre-game Show begins at 7:15p.m. BASKETBALL Union \ifS. Manhattanville Sat. Night Coach's Pre. game Show Begins at 7:45 Capital District Progressive Radio At Its Best WRUC FEATURES JAZZ Daily from 12:30 to 3:30 Wldergraduate students. in a program of study related . to naval engineering (including Ele~trical Engineering). Applications, which are due by February 15, are available· in the Financial Aid Office. The Society of Exploration Geophysicists. Education Foundation is offering scholarships to · Wldergraduate and graduate students in a college course directed toward the study of geophysics. The· award is based primarily on academic competence, secondarily on financial need. For an application, which is due by March 1i. write to the Foundation at P~O. Box 3098; Tulsa, Oklahoma 74101. The Delta Gamma FoWl- dation offers loans and scholarships to . its un- dergraduate and graduate student sisters and children of sisters. For more information, write to: Delta Gamma Executive Offices; c-o Grants and Loans Chairman; 3250. Riverside Dr.; Columbus, Ohio 43221. The Business and Professional Women's Organization offers grants to both undergraduate and graduate women. · For more information and an application, write to the Organization at 2012 Massachusetts Avenue, NW; Washington, D.C. 20036. The National Society of Professional Engineers offers scholarships to undergraduate engineering. students with at least a 3.6 G.P.A. Applications for 1984-85, whiCh are due February 1, are available In the Financlal Aid Office. · The Albany Are~ Bran:ch ~f the English Speakmg Umon 'IS offering a $1 ,000 scholarship to nineteen-year-olds for st~dy or personal development m an English Speaking Country during 1:934. Copies of the br~chure describing the scholarship may be obtained by calling Edgar Tompkins, President of the ·Albany. Area Branch at the Albany. Public Library 44~-3380 or any member of the scholarship committee which is co-chaired by Dr. Raymond Vickers tli\,d Jerome.Flax. CLUB NEWS Newman Club Meeting Monday, ·January 16th, 8:00 p.m. Carnegie 4th floor Lounge. Bible Study on Gospel of Matthew, Thursday,. January 19th, 4:00 prrn. Campus Ministry Office. Over-Night ·Retreat-January 20-21 at St. Joseph~s Spiritual Life Center. Theme of. the retreat will be Faith Journeys a.nd our Relationships: to God, ourself and others. Retreat will begin after dinner Friday and end before dinner on Saturday. Cost is $10. The NeWillan Club will absorb the balance of $12 for each participant. Reser- vations may be made in the Campus Ministry Office. . RAISLATIIN by Brian Friel December 31-January 22 Star-crossed lovers in 19th Century Ireland. Performances: Tuesday-Saturday 8:00pm; Sunday 2:30pm and Wednesday, Jan. 4, 2:~() pm Non Student Tickets $8-$13 Students with 1.0. ~price Tuesday-Thursday evenings. and Sund~y M~tinee. Limited availability 30 minutes before curtain. 111 North Pearl Street. Albany. New York 518-462-4534 Tickets available at The Market Theatre and Community Box Offices. MasterCard and VISA (No refunds orexch~nges.) . Fri., Sat., Sun· ... Jaq. 13-15 71 9 t 11 • $1 • sso 16 - - -- I \L hel 3:3 up ,., ' .Ja1 4th A, An dH Q~ 8:0 Pr1 thE Dr avl Mii E for p.n JaJ Ca. An: me lea Sr. Off Stu - SJ D and spe and Fox . 6 J Mel T ava adll ~ eldj SWE 0 198• rna bac Se~ Jou uni

Pagt.• 12 CONCORJ)I/:'NS/S, January 12. 198..J CAMPUS NEWS TERMS ABROAD Opportunities exist for study in Japan during the fall tenn of 1984-85. The program includes living with a Japanese family, studying Japanese, and taking at least three additional courses related to East Asi'a. If you are interested in learning more about the program, please see Professor Thurston, SS213b. Junior year at a German University-Applications will be received until January 31 for Union's German University Exchange Program sponsored by the Federation of German- American clubs. Candidates should be sophomores well on their way to a good working knewledge 0f German. One, or possibly two students will be chesen to participate in the exchange program. For more information and application forms, contact Professor Warde in HU 211. Modern Israel will be the focus of a special academic swmner program sponsored by the State University of New York. Only a limited nwnber of students can be accepted, and early application is recom- mended. For specific details about the 1984 Academic Program in Israel, write Department of International Education, SUNY Summer Program in Israel, State University College, Oneonta, New York 13820, or telephone Office of International Education,. 607-431-3369. CAREER INFO The Foreign & Domestic Teachers Organization needs teacher applicants in all fields from Kindergarten through College to fill over six hundred teaching vacancies both at home and abroad. Should you wish additional information about our organization, you may write the Portland Oregon Better Business Bureau or the National Teachers' Placement Agency, UNIVERSAL TEACHERS, Box 5231, Por- tland, Oregon 97208. Graduate Studies in Biomedical Research Basic Medical Science Department, Active Research Programs, Seeking Qualified Applicants· Tuition and Stipend Support Available For Further In- formation Contact: Graduate Committee Department of Phy1iology Albany Medical College Albany, N.Y. 12208 (518-445-5651) RECRUITING Open Recruiting Sign~Ups . Open sign-ups for compames with remaining interview slots will be held as follows: January 16-Companies recruiting in Weeks 3 & 4 of winter term. January 18-Companies recruiting in Weeks 5 & 6 of winter term. 8 a.m. - noon Strauss Lounge CAREER WORKSHOPS Thurs., Jan. 12 Videotapes on Liberal Arts, Interviewing 3:30 Marketing the Liberal Arts 4:00 The Interview 4:30 Interview Follow-up Thurs., Jan. 12, International Careers Panelists include: Steve Abba '79 - Export Sales Represen- tative, Sch'dy Chemicals, Inc. Pamela Viglielmo '82 -- Performing Arts Department, The Asia Society Walter West - Foreign Ser- vice Officer Prof. Byron Nichols -- Political Science Dpartment, Moderator MOCK INTERVIEWS Mon., Jan. 16, 3:30-5:30 p.m., SS010 Tues., Jan.17, 3:30-5:30 p.m., SSOIO Wed., Jan. 18, 3:30-5:30 p.m., SSOlO Thurs., Jan. 19, 3:30-5:30 p.m., SS010 SELF-ASSESSMENT Tues., Jan. 17, 7:00p.m., Fox Lounge & HU117 Wed., Jan. 18, 7:00 p.m., Davidson Lounge Thurs., Jan. 19, 7:00 p.m., Richmond Lounge & West 2nd Lounge Fri., Jan. 20, '1:00 p.m., Rich- mond Lounge & West 2nd Lounge Please Note: The editors of the <:ampus News Page would like to introduce a \Ride Board'.' column. If anyone has any information please submit to CONCORDIENSIS, Box 2577, in care of Campus News. FINANCIAL AID Financial Aid applications are now available for 1984-85. · Please pick up yours at financial aid office in Becker Hall. (Remember you must reapply every year.) FAF's must be mailed by March 1 so that all forms are received by the April 15 deadline. SCHOLARSHIPS Applications for the 1984-4!5 Pennsylvania State Grants for Pennsylvania residents are now available in the Financial Aid Office. Phi Chi Theta Foundation is offering $1,000 grants for 1984-85 to women pursuing Bachelor's and Master's programs in business and·or economics. The application deadline is May 1. Further information can be obtained at the Financial Aid Office. The Jewish Foundation for Education of Women is a non- sectarian organization that offers need-based grants and interest-free loans. Information and applications for 1984-4!5 can be obtained by writing to the Foundation at 120 West 57 Street, New York, N.Y. 10019, by January 31, 1984. Delta Delta Delta is con- ducting a scholarship com- petition for undergraduate women for 1984-85. Applicants are considered on the basis of academic record, ex- tracurricular activitie~ and community service, promise of service to their chosen field, and financial need. Applications, which must be submitted prior to March 15, are available in the Financial Aid Office, Dean's Office, and from the Tri Delta Service Projects Chairman on this campus. The American Society of Naval En ginners is offering non-need-based awards to WRUC SPORTS EXCLUSIVES! DUTCHMEN HOCKEY Union vs. Geneseo Friday Night Coach's Corner Pre-Game Show Begins at 7:15 p.m. Union vs. Salem State This Tuesday Coach's Corner Pre-game Show begins at 7:15 p.m. BASKETBALL Union vs. Manhattanville Sat. Night Coach's Pre. game Show Begins at 7:45 Capital District Progressive Radio At Its Best WRUC FEATURES JAZZ Daily from 12:30 to 3:30 undergraduate students in a program of study related to naval engineering (including Elect rica I Engineering). Applications, which are due by February 15, are available in the Financial Aid Office. The Society of Exploration Geophysicists Education Foundation is offering scholarships to undergraduate and graduate students in a college course directed taward the study of geophysics. The award is eased primarily on academic competence, secondarily on financial need. For an application, which is due by March 1, write to the Foundation at P.O. Box 3098; Tulsa, Oklahoma 74101. The Delta Gamma Foun- dation offers loans and scholarships to . its un- dergraduate and graduate student sisters and children of sisters. For more information, write to: Delta Gamma Executive Offices; c-o Grants and Loans Chairman; 3250 Riverside Dr.; Columbus, Ohio 43221. The Business and Professional Women's Organization offers grants to both undergraduate and graduate women. For more information and an application, write to the Organization at 2012 Massachusetts Avenue, NW; Washington, D.C. 20036. The National Society of Professional Engineers offers scholarships to undergraduate engineering students with at least a 3.6 G.P.A. Applications for 1984-85, which are due February 1, are available in the Financial Aid Office. The Albany Area Branch of the English Speaking Uni~n is offering a $1,000 scholarship to nineteen-year-olds for study or personal development in an English Speaking Country during 1984. Copies of the br?chure describing the scholarship may be obtained by calling Edgar Tompkins, President of the Albany Area Branch at the Albany Public Library 449-3380 or any memb~r of. t~e scholarship conumttee wh1ch IS co-chaired by Dr. Raymond Vickers and Jerome. Flax. CLUB NEWS Newman Club Meeting Monday, January 16th, 8:00 p.m. Carnegie 4th floor Lounge. Bible Study on Gospel of Matthew, Thursday, January 19th, 4:00 p.m. Campus Ministry Office. Over-Night Retreat-January 20-21 at St. Joseph's Spiritual Life Center. Theme of the retreat will be Faith Journeys and our Relationships: to God, ourself and others. Retreat will begin after dinner Friday and end before dinner on Saturday. Cost is $10. The Newman Club will absorb the balance of $12 for each participant. Reser- vations may be made in the Campus Ministry Office. RlNSLATIIN by Brian Friel December 31-January 22 Star-crossed lovers in 19th Century Ireland. Performances: Tuesday-Saturday 8:00pm; Sunday 2:30pm and Wednesday, Jan. 4. 2:30pm Non Student Tickets $8-$13 Students With I. 0 Y, pnce Tuesday-Thursday evenings. and Sunday Matmee Limtted availability 30 minutes before curtain. 111 North Pearl Street. Albany. New York 518-462-4534 Tickets available at The Market Theatre and Community Box Offices MasterCard and VISA . (No refunds or exchanges.) Fri •• Sat .. ll Sun· ... Jan. 13* 15 7, 9. 11 • $1 • sso 16 - - - - - CL - - In \L'l held 3:30 up c \1 ever Dutc w Jan 4th A. Antl dis< Que s~ 8:00 Pro, the Dre ava: Min B1 for p.m Jan Can Any mee leav Sr.~ Offit Stuc -- SP. Dr and spea and Fort 8 p. Men Ti' avai adm mis~ elde swe1 Or 1984 man bacl Seal Jom unic

~ l'ONCORDIE!V}i/S, January 12, 1984 Page 13 CLUB NEWS Important meeting of the new · \L'Union Francaise\ -will be held. on Monday, January 16., 3:3Q m HU 110. Joinn(}W! arush UP on your French!! ''Table Francaise\ will meet every Monday at 12 :3(), in the Dutch Hollow Wednesday Lecture Series- Ja~uary 18, 8:00 p.rn. Carnegie 4th floor .Lounge, Rev. Dominic A, Ing.emie, pastor :of St. Anthony's Churcn will lead a discussion on ''Easic Faith Questions.\ Saturday, Janaary 28th at 8:00 p.m.-'Theatr-e Party to Proctor's to see \Joseph and the Amazing Tech:nico'lor Dreamcoat.\ Group tickets available at $10. Call Campus Ministry Office 370-6087. Brief organizational meeting for folk group to play at 7: 30 p.m. Sunday Masses4 Monday, • January 16, 7:30 p.m. in Cam.pas · Ministry Office. Anyone who can not make the meeting but is interested please leave name and nUJ:Ilber with Sr. Joan in the CarnpwMinistry Office or with Mrs. Marra in Student Activities. SPEAKERS Dr. Ivar Giaever, bi()physicist and Nobel Prize -winner, will speak on \Genetic Engineering and Physics\ at tlle Freedom Forum, January 23rd, Monday, · 3 p.m. at the Union College presented at 8':00 p.m. in Union College's Social Science Rm 016 and will be narrated by world- reknowned , climber, John Bragg. Adqlission is free and Tough Traveler representatives will be on hand to answer questions regarding equipment; ,outfitting and accessories. Administrative and Engineering Systems colloquium. The Colloquium hosts a series of presentations by members of the business community and university faculty on topics of general interest to present .and future buslness leaders. l'he Colloquims are held on Thur- sdays from 3:45-5:00 p.m. in Bailey Hall, room 312. For more information, please call Dr. Donald F. Arnold, at x6302. On January 19 Daniel R. Conlon, President, Instruments for Research and Industry, will speak on the unique aspects of managing the smaller manufacturing companies. SELF-HELP G·ROUP Support Group meeting for Crahn's disease and ulcerative colitis· patients, their spouses, family and friends, January 18, 1984, 7:30 to 9:30 p.m., Colonie Central . High School, 100 Hackett Avenue, behind Macy' s, sponsored by the Capital District Chapter of the National Foundation for lleitis / and Colitis. CLASSIFIEDS Memorial Chapel. . . . . .. _ : . =====:;:==;:::::;:::::;:=::::::;:= Tickets for the lectw·e are available at ,the door; single admissions $5, and single ad- missionS for students and the elderly $3. A question and an- swer period will follow tbe talk. On Wednesday, January 18, 1984, Tough Traveler Ltd., local manufacturer of l!igll quality backpacks, will spons()r \In Search of Hidden Peak--A Journey across China''. This unique slide show will be Typing done for students or professors. Please contact 377- 4215. Scotia area. FOR SALE: Great car-1974 Buick Apollo, 70,000 miles. $800 negotiable, Blaupunkt am-fm cassette. Call Roberta 374-3769. Beginning this term all recreational equipment can be obtained from a room in the basement of Alumni Gym next to \the Cage\. Equipment such as basket- balls, racquetbal·l racquets, racquet halls, foot balls, volleyballs, platform tennis racquets, platform tennis balls, ·speedbags will no longer be available in the Intramural Office. The use of this equipment room will allow the Intramural Department to make more equipment available since it will have more space for storage. Also available in the Intramural equipment room will be entry forms for all Intramural activities. PERSONALS Lisa, There's always a first- and here it is . . . well, was it good for you? I hope so. You've got a lot of friends, remember that and smile. -One of them Jonathon from P'berg. Wbo are you.? Bump-Lisp-Jump & Limp, I'm glad I've got you guys. Thanks. -Step . Hey Jam, When are we going to Chuck E. Cheese again? When do I get my tweed coat? Only kidding. YOUR ROOMATE IN TEN YEARS. P.S. Can we get a puppy? Fteph, They'll come and go, there will be others{!); you're always going to live with yourself. I love you! -R- Dave: Thanks for the new job. I couldn't have done it without you ... especially since I wasn't even here last term. Tom TRI-·DELTA _. PLEDGES; GET PSYCHED F')R A GREAT TERM ... \\ LOVE YOU ... KEEP IT Uf ..... OVE, THE SISTERS Rubinstein-the highest compliment I can pay you is to say that you are as sick as I am. Here's to Republican punch and guys only. Love, Me Julie Donna and the rest of The Rock-N-Roll Pizza Pub, Proudly Presents Submarine Sandwiches for your enioyment Mixed· $2.25 ·Ham· $2.25 Turkey· $2.50 Roast Beef· $2.50 Tuna· $2.50 Italian Mixed- $2.25 (8 cut) Large Cheese Pizza •.••••••.•.•••.•••••••••••• $4.85 ( 6 cut) Small Cheese Pizza • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • • •• $3.7 5 Pepperoni Sausage X-Cheese Mushroom Peppers Onions Large Chocolate Chip Cookies $.50 a cut $1.00 $1.00 $1.00 $.75 $.57 $.75 FREE DELIVERY Open 7 days a week at 1:30 p.m. Call 370-6060 This week's 5pecial1·12-84- 1-19-84 One free small ,oda with the. purchase of any sub sandwich 6 cut $.75 $.75 $.75 $.50 $.50 $.50 CAMPUS NEWS the Concordy staff- good luck this term. Love, Cindy Hey you--over there--yes YOU! Let 'em all eat cake (Just don't bake it for them.)! Soon to be a participant in this game of love. SDT new sisters·: Congratulations!· Be psyched for a great 1984! Love, the old sisters • SDT pledges: Get psyched for- a.greatterm! Love, the sisters! Film Committee presents Citizen Kane, Tuesday January 17 at 7, 9, 11. The cost is $1 and it will be in SS016. Monty Pythen's The Meaning of Life will be on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, .January 13- 15 at 7, 9, 11. The cost will be $1 and it will be in SS016. P'roctor's Ha.ppe:nings Isaac Stern, who has been called the finest violinist of this century, will be performing at Proctor's on Jan,uary 18. In :his 46 years of experience, he has received international praise. He has appeared not only in concerts but also television and the cinema. Perhaps the way we might recognize his iS his performance in the movie Fiddler on tile :Roof that was here last term. His talent is responsible for some of the film's haunting melodies. The concert shoulcl be a memorable one. u=x:KN==~WC·k~==~Kk==~~~~~~==~====x~====~ ~ Union CoUege Concert 1 c·ommittee ·~ & Skidmore.Entertainment J PRESENT · ~ BILLY IDOL ·~ \. ·a p.m.. n. U Proctor's Theatre U ~ Schenectady n Students $9 U Tues., Jan .. 17 • 7.~ 9, 11 $1. $5016

- - - r r .. ' CONCORD/ENS!.\~ January /l, 1984 Page l3 CLUB NEWS Important meeting of the new \L'Union Francaise\ will be held on Monday, January 16 3:30 in HU 110. Join now! Brush up on your French! ! \Table Francaise\ will meet every Monday at 12:30 in the Dutch Hollow Wednesday Lecture Series- January 18, 8:00p.m. Carnegie 4th floor Lounge. Rev. Dominic A. lRgemie, pastor of St. Anthony's Church will lead a discussion on \Basic Faith Questions.\ Saturday, January 28th at 8:00 p.m.-Theatre Party to Proctor's to see \Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dream coat.\ Group tickets available at $10. Call Campus Ministry Office 370-6087. Brief organizational meeting for folk group to play at 7:30 p.m. Sunday Masses. Monday, January 16, 7:30 p.m. in Campus Ministry Office. Anyone who can not make the meeting but is interested please leave name and number with Sr. Joan in the Campus Ministry Office or with Mrs. Marra in Student Activities. SPEAKERS Dr. Ivar Giaever, biophysicist and Nobel Prize winner, will speak on \Genetic Engineering and Physics\ at the Freedom Forum, January 23rd, Monday, 8 p.m. at the Union College Memorial Chapel. Tickets for the lecture are available at the door; single admissions $5, and single ad- missions for students and the elderly $3. A question and an- swer period will follow the talk. On Wednesday, January 18, 1984, Tough Traveler Ltd., local manufacturer of high quality backpacks, will sponsor \In Search of Hidden Peak--A Journey across China\. This unique slide show will be presented at 8:00p.m. in Union College's Social Science Rm 016 and will be nat·rated by world- reknowned climber, John Bragg. Admission is free and Tough Traveler representatives will be on hand to ar.~swer questions regarding equipment, outfitting and accessories. Administrative and Engineering Systems colloquium. The C0lloquium bests a series of presentations by members of the business cemrnunity and university faculty on topics of general i!:J.terest to present and future business leaders. The Colloquims are held on Thur- sdays from 3:45-5:00 p.m. in Bailey Hall, room 312. For more information, please call Dr. Donald F. Arnold, at x6302. On January 19 Daniel R. Conlen, President, Instruments for Research and Industry, will speak on the unique aspects of managing the smaller manufacturing companies. SELF-HELP GROUP Support Group meeting for Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis patients, their spouses, family and friends, January 18, 1984, 7:30 to 9:30 p.m., Colonie Central High School, 100 Hackett Avenue, behind Macy's, sponsored by the Capital District Chapter of the National Foundation for Ileitis and Colitis. CLASS!FJEDS Typing done for students or professors. Please contact 377- 4215. Scotia area. FOR SALE: Great car-1974 Buick Apollo, 70,000 miles. $800 negotiable, Blaupunkt am-fm cassette. Call Roberta 374-8769. Beginning this term all recreational equipment can be obtained from a room in the basement of Alumni Gym next to \the Cage\. Equipment such as basket- balls, racquetball racquets, racquetballs, footballs, volleyballs, platform tennis racquets, platform tennis balls, speedbags will no longer be available in the Intramural Office. The use of this equipment room will allow the Intramural Department to make more equipment available since it will have more space for storage. Also available in the Intramural equipment room will be entry forms for all Intramural activities. PERSONALS Lisa, There's always a first- and here it is . . . well, was it good for you? I h0pe so. You've got a lot of friends, remember that and smile. -One of them Jonathon from P'berg. Who are you? Bump-Lisp-Jump & Limp, I'm glad I've got you guys. Thanks. -Step Hey Jam, When are we going to Chuck E. Cheese again? When do I get my tweed coat? Only kidding. YOUR ROOMATE IN TEN YEARS. P.S. Can we get a puppy? Fteph, They'll come and go, there will be others(!); you're always going to live with yourself. I love yau! -R- Dave: Thanks for the new job. I couldn't have done it without you ... especially since I wasn't even here last term. Tom TRI-DELTA . PLEDGES; GET PSYCHED WI)R A GREAT TERM ... \\ LOVE YOU ... KEEP IT Uf ..... OVE, THE SISTERS Rubinstein-the highest compliment I can pay you is to say that you are as sick as I am. Here's to Republican punch and guys only. Love, Me Julie Donna and the rest of The Rock-N-Roll Pizza Pub Proud I y Presents Submarine Sandwiches for your enioyment Mixed · $2.25 Ham $2.25 Turkey $2.50 Roast Beef $2.50 Tuna $2.50 Italian Mixed $2.25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .•..••.••••. $4.85 ( 8 cut) Large Cheese Pizza ( 6 cut) Small Cheese Pizza • • • •• • • • • • • • • 0 s • • • • • • • • • • • • $3 .1 5 Pepperoni Sausage X-Cheese Mushroom Peppers Onions Large Chocolate Chip Cookies $.50 8 cut $1.00 $1.00 $1.00 $.75 $.57 $.75 FREE DELIVERY Open 7 days a week at 1:30 p.m. Call 370-6060 This week'sspeciall-12-84 -1-19u84 One free small soda with the purchase of any sub sandwich 6 cut $.75 $.75 $.75 $.50 $.50 $.50 CAMPUS NEWS the Concordy staff - good luck this term. Love, Cindy Hey you--over there--yes YOU! Let 'em all eat cake (Just don't bake it for them.)! Soon to be a participant in this game of love. SOT new sisters: Congratulations! Be psyched for a great 1984! Love, the old sisters· SDT pledges: Get psyched for a greatterm! Love, the sisters! ~ ntM Film Committee presents Citizen Kane, Tuesday January 17 at 7, 9, 11. The cost is $1 and it will be in SS016. Monty Pythen's The Meaning of LUe will be on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, January 13- 15 at 7, 9, 11. The cost will be $1 and it wtll be in SS016. Proctor's Happenings Isaac Stern, who has been called the finest violinist of this century, will be performing at Proctor's on January 18. In his 46 years of experience, he has received international praise. He has appeared not only in concerts but also television and the cinema. Perhaps the way we might recognize his is his performance in the movie Fiddler on the Roof that was here last term. His talent is responsible for some of the film's haunting melodies. The concert should be a memorable one. rx==>«~<===>~K:k ==>~kK:=:::>«k==>~k=::::::x·~ ~ Union College Concert ] Committee & Skidmore Entertainment J PRESENT ~ BILLY IDOL ~ n 8 p.mn. ~ Proctor's Theatre ~ U Schenectady Students $9 >ck==>~ac== Orson welles' Tues., Jan. 17 • 7, 9, 11 $1 • 55016

-I Pag~ 14 CONCORDIENSJS, Jamt(ll'J' 12, 1984 SPORTS Northwood wins • • • -Athlete of the W,eek Pr~p Hoc.key Tourney By DUEW HURLEY Sports Staff Congratulations to junior center Ken D'Orazio of Bill Scanlon's 6-3 basketball team and juniQr co-captain Gill Egan of the Skating Dutchmen for capturing the first Athlete of the Week honors of the winter term '84. D'Orazio was selected to the ECAC's weekly \honor role\ for his .performance against Williams and Rochester last week .. Against Rochester, D'Orazio put on a one-man show hitting 10 or 15 from the field, six free tbrows for 26 points, 14 rebounds, three blocl}ed shots, and four assists. The 26 points tied D'Orazio's career high. . Ken is currently Union's second leading scorer with. a 13- 7 average. He leads the team with 83 reboWids and 13 blocked shots. His 90 percenUree throw percentage is best on the team. The 6'5\ 205lb. D'Orazio, a brother of Sigma Chi, is from Mamaroneck and is a graduate of Albertus Magnus lligh School. . The Skating Dutchmen'S Gill· Egan was named co-ECAC \player of the week\ during Union's semester break. Egan has been responsible for much of the Dutchmen'S offense to date. After n~t scoring in three games, Egan had five goals and an assist in a 13-2 thrashing of the University of Buffalo. Egan followed that game. with a hat trick against Elmira. He then went on to score a pair in a loss to division one Colgate and added one goal in the Dut- chmen's 3-3 ·tie against Mid- dlebury last Friday. Gill is currently the team's leading scorer with 14 goals and five assists. He's eleventh on the all-time scoriltg list with 42 goals, 25 assists for 67 points. Egan, who bails from Napean, Ontario, is an Economics major and a brother at Chi Psi. Gill Egan ByCPSIS Sports Staff This past weekend, Achilles Rink was the site hf the Fourth Annual Capital DiStrict Prep School Toutnrunent. For many, this tournament provides an opportunity to get recognb;ed by many college coaches from divisions I and II. For others, 0 . such as the Union College J.V. 'b squad, this tournament offers -a them a chance to prove that c , they can compete at the varsity iii level. · The tournament consists .of eight teams: two divisions of four teams. Each team plays the other three teams in. its division once, and. the top two teams from each division compete on Sunday to decide the eventual champion. Following the championship game. there is an awards ~,k-~ 0 ceremony, at which an all· t; tournament team is picked ~-along with a most valuabre p player. NORTHWOOD· OVERPOWERING School, Choate•Rosem:ary Hall and Kimball~UniQn Academy. In addition, theY bested . the Union College J. V. team 9•5 to earn a spot in the finals. The ot11er team representing the Blue division in the .semifinals was Choate-Rosemary Hall,. who recorded victories over Lawrenceville and Kimball- Union, while losing to No~ thwood. Choate lost its semifinal contest against Lawrence Academy, · in .a dramatic double overtime game, 4:-3. Numero-us Post Season Honors This year the Northwood Prep School ran away with the championship winning all five of- their games ~Y. at least a three-goal margin, inclqding a 5.-2 victory over Lawrence Academy in the finals. Nor- thwood got there by beating each of its opponents in the Blue Division: Lawrence Prep Lawrence started the tourney on a bad foot by losing to Milton Academy 7~3 in thetr opening contest. With victories over Canterbury·~ and the Union CollegeJ,V.'s5-4, theytook first place in the Red diVision. 'The other semifinalist to .represent the Red division was the Union CQllege J.V. squad. They earned a playoff bid Wijh vic. tories over Canterbury 6-4 and Milton 6-2. They came stornrlng back £rom a 5-1 deficit against Lawrence, with three minutes left, only to fall short .54. tll!ion then went on to lose to Nor- thwood 9-5 · in their semifinal matchup. UNION PLAYER CITED ByGAC-8ID Sports Staff Union College head soccer coach Bob Magee has been named New York State Coach of the Year by.~the New York State Soccer Ccaches Association. The Union team, which had eight fresl:linen, finished 12·3-2 and advanced to the NCAA Division III New YorkoNew England championship game. Magee's record for 11 seasons is 86-56-8. A native of Watertown, Conn., Magee is a 1948 graduate of Springfield College, where he played baseball and varsity soccer. In 1947, he was a starter on the National Intercollegiate Championship team . at Springfield. He has coached at Kingsiey Hall, Berkshire County Day School, New Rochelle High School, Searles High School and Pittsfield High School in addition to Union. Taking a team that had been expected to be in a rebuilding year, Magee led Union to the New York State championship and ·a nwnber six ranking nationallY.. The team tied a Union College record for wins in a season and was the first Union team to win the Eastern regional championship. Union lost the New York-New England title to Plymouth State of New Hampshire, which went on to the NCAA Final Four. Union will return all but four players next year. \The ex- perience we gained this year Will help us a lot next year;•• Magee said. \However I just want to sit back and enjoy what we accomplished for a while.\ Three Dutchmen Soceer Players named to .... (L·R) Co-captains Bernie Zietang and Dave Sheridan enjoy a moment with eleventh '(ear coa~h Bob Magee ATTENTION I ALL STU DENTS interested in playing Rugby this Spring There is a Mandatory Orgmni:zational Meeting on Monday, Jan. 16 at 4 p.m.in Hu•nities 116 If you cannot attend please contact Doug / : Baumgarten or Steve Cole. AD-New York State Team Three members of Union's 12· 3-2 soccer team were selected to the National Soccer Coaches Association of America 19~ New York State Colleg~ Soccer Team. Freshman f111lback Gu:y Claveloux was elected to thE second team while senior for-· ward Bernie .Ziefang and sophomore fullback Grani Foreman were both chosen to the honorable mention squad. The Dutchmen, who will lose only four players, finished the · 1983 season as the top-ranked team in New York State and the sixth-ranked Division III team in the nation. Union beat botb. Buffalo State and RIT in the NCAA New York State playoffs before losing to powerful Plymouth State in the New York-New England cham- , pionship game. The 12 victories tied the all- time Union record for Winsina single season set by the 1978 NCAA Dutchmen squad. Tilis year, however, was the first time in history that Union captured two wins in the NCAA Tournament. EDITOR'S N()TE: Lou George's football article. an p. 16 is his last two y.ears of devoted coverage. CON· CORDIENSIS would like to thank Lou for his excellent cov~rage of Dutchmen footl.all. There will be a General Meeting of J.S.U. Jan.l2-8p.m. In Conf. Rm. A All members · ·are . invited. We want to ·hear YOUR ideas. Help · make J.S.U. what you ·want. ••• Hoop Continued from pag~ 16 · up to a 72o.66 defeat by an ob- viously weaker Williams five. The Dutclunen, faced with the possibility of losing two straight for the first time since 1981-82, rose to the occasion and broke .away for a 83-70 win at home .against . Rochester last Satruday. The fast-break again k:eyed the victory, as Union came back from a one-point halftime deficit, and blitZed the Yellowjackets using a 13.0 spurt early in the second half to Congratulations to the Union College J.V. hockey team and especially to Bill Kirby who was named to . the an~tournament team. secure the win. o~orazio and Wood combined .for 49 points to pace the Dutchmen. The 6-3 Dutchmen face Albany State (7-4) in a rematch Wednesday in what must be considered the most in)portant contestto date. If the Dutchmen are to have any hopes ()f post- season play they will have to put together an impressive string of victories. With Torncello back in the lineup and Doherty ,back soou, the Dutchmen Should have enough talent· and bench strength to put together a :much needed winning streak. ICesl<luralll Clrd ~2\r Sf)1 111\TTIE ST. 3CJ3 • C)SCJ!i *Monday: Nite Club *Tuesday: 16 oz. Draft 50~ *Wednesday: 2 for 1 Chicken Wings *Thursday:$ Dollar Iced Teas *Friday:$ Dollar Molson Bottles. * Sunday: Noon-3 p.m. \Bloody Mary Brunch\ Plus Hot Daily Lunch Fast Service . .. - - - - •·•·• te ffil so in co ar op tvi pu th th ,, ha se. ad on re1 ga pe 5-~ an wl le< ro al te< pe at1 Gr ar· ba To SCI im • A fiel1 Har teru sho bes Per par wei qm Da1 in Ebl 'I Un tea

. .. CONCORDIE'NSJS, JanuaiT 12.1984 Page 15 ... down Division I foes Dartmouth, Prin~eton Skating Dutchmen Optimistic nyA.W~ SportsStaH The U,nion College . hockey team, .although holding a mediocre 4.;s~1 record, has -a ~olid chance tQ get things rolling m the next . five games, games coach Charlie Morrison Claims are ''.playoff .games.'' These opponents are all tough division two rivals and won't be push(lvers for the Dutchmen. If they fare well, it will truly show the mettle of this year's squad. The rec(lrd shows that this has been an up and down early season for Union. They played admirably against their division one competition, compiling a 2.,3 record, and were in all .five games going into the third period. The season started with 5-3 losses against Plattsburgh and North Adams St, games in which the Dutchmen seemed to leave their heads in the ]ocker room. Union turned it around in a big way against a Dartmouth team that fell apart In the third period due to a tenacious Union attack and penalties. The Big Green's strategy to try and push around their smaller opponents backfired, and as Jamie Knight, Todd Flanigan,. and T:J. Ryan scored the tying, winning and insurance goals, it seemed as ·' though Union was in the process of tUfning its season around. Sorry, fans. Any resurgence the Dutchmen hadtried to make was squelched in a bitter 5-4 loss to Army in the last three seconds. Tllouglt the refs made some questionable ·calls, the loss could possibly be attributed t() suspect coaching, as Morrison refused to call time out as Union went into a defensive shell in the game's closing minutes and allowed three ,goals. Fortunately for the Dut- chmen, they were able . to reboWldagainstBuffalo St. with four goals by Joe Caruso and five by Gill Egan leading the way in a 13-2 blowout. Unh:m lost a tough one to RPI, 9-'5, but are still the only college team to date which has scored as many as five goals on a team that is one of the nation's best. • In their next contest, Union, led by goalie Wayne McDougall, surprised Princeton 3·2. McDougall was ambushed by tigers in the third period, and except for former Olympic hopeful Ed Lee's goal, Wayne was up to the task. In Elmira, Union continued to play winning hockey, scrapping its way to a 5-3 win, its first on the road. Some players felt it wasMorrison'sbest game of the year, as he finally made sure his players didn't panic towards the end of the game. It also had important playoff implications for the Dutchmen. Last week, Union played well against Colgate. .and had the lead going int<> the third period. But the strong division one school would not be denied, and overtook the Dutchmen with a four-goal outburst, winning the game 7-4. Union played soWld hockt:y, but ~ust could not keep UP with the1r faster, stronger opponents. Last Friday's game against Middlebury ended up in a tie after overtime. Caruso, Egan, and Curt Cole scored the Dut~ chmen goals, but Union missed several opportunities to win the game in regulation play. Middlebury recorded the best chance to win in the ten minute overtime period but a shot by a Panther winger aimed at Union's open net sailed over the net. \Hockey Notes\ Union played Oswego Tuesday night,· and will play Geneseo tomorrow night. Going into Tuesday's game, Gill Egan has scored a point in five con- secutive games, while Tommy Hodgins is second in scoring to Gillwith 13 goals. Track Takes Off By DIU Sports Etaff After a weekend of track and field at the Dartmouth Relays in Hanover, NH, the Union Track team is preparing' for what should prove to be one of the best seasons in· its history. Performances at the relays particularly worthy of mention were Todd Allen's 52.4 second quarter mile ( 400 meters), Dave Stanland' s 500 meter run in 1: 11.8 and coach Russ Ebbets' 2:01.1 in the open 800 meter (approx. l.h mile) race-. But the stars of the weekend were Jenny Snover who set a new personal and school record in the high jump at 5 feet o inches (qualifying for the st~te meet). and Jim Mann, Union's racewalker, who walked the mile in 6 : 27.7 to place 3rd in the event. Mann improved his time by over five seconds from the same meet last year and we should expect to hear more about him in the upcoming weeks and months as he pre~ares for the Olympic trials in June. The team is operating without the help of some important runners who have been struck with injuries; Chris O'Donnell will start running again this week after a week's absence and Mike Reed will be out for an unknown time with an ankle injury suffered on Monday. Amy Walsh, the women's SG MVP will not run at all this season due to mononucleosis. This Friday night the team travels to Hamilton to compete againstWilliams and Hamilton. Wo:me.n's Hoops Trounces S_age ByL.F. Sports Staff \With hustle and intensity, Union's women's basketball team intends to be a threatening force in the Capital District,\ claims starting forward Patty Richards. In the team's opener, last Monday, Union dominated Russel Sage for the last three quarters of the gam~, to easily UN·ION OUTING CLUB and TOUGH TRAVEllER present John Brad ''Search for Hidden Mountain'' a slides how on his trip to the H im.alayas through China SS016 • Wed., Ja,n. 18 8:00 Free Admission- Gen. Public Invited defeat Sage 69-49. · Tri-Ca.ptains Rebecca Cl~mel\te, Cay Lynch and Julie Miller comprised the round- ballers scoring strength, adding 20-points to the half time score, 53..33. Starting center Barbara Weisinger, a ·freshman, also added six points in the second half; Though her .strength ap- pears to be defense, as she pulled down 15 rebounds in the game, Ms. Weisinger is an offensive threat as well. The team, under head coach Lynn Barta and assistant coach Charlyn Robert, has eight members, that are substituted often in the ga~e with emphasis on the . strength of returning players and the conditioning that has been the key to Union's success. The Dutchwomen met HartWick away on Wednesday and face St. Rose at home this Saturday. SUPPORT UNION SPORTS SPORTS ••• the Skating Dutchmen Sports Talk With SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff It is truly amazing how big a difference a single year can make with any collegiate athletic team. Only one short year ago there were a number of puzzled Union College hockey fans confused by how the team had performed · on the road leading to a disappointing 3~7 mid~season record. Now 365 days later, the Skating Dut- chmen find themselves with an impressive 4-5 record and an opportunity to compile one of the best records in recent Garnet history. The most in· teresting part of the turnaround is that last year's squad was predicted to be the playoff team while this year's edition was predicted to struggle. Coming into the '83-'84 campaign Union fans looked to a winter without the likes of the previous season's four top scorers. The media continually alluded to Union's losses through graduation and even had this writer conv inccd that it would be a long winter around Achilles. While all this skep- ticism circled over the program and its chances for success a few concerned parties dedicated themselves to proving all the skeptics wrong. The leaders of this group met at Achilles way back in the spring of last year and determined what their specific goals and methods of achieving these goals would be. _ They agreed that the road would be long with many challenges to be tackled along the way. Those four concerned parties were Charlie Morrison, Shaun Teev{ms Jamie Knight and Gill Egan. It looks as though it was a productive meeting. But the question still stands; why the sudden turnaround with a group of players that didn't even seem to be as talented as the squad one winter ago? There are a number of reasons and they start at the top of the prograii1 and run all the way down through what coach Morrison likes to call the \organization.'' Mentors Morrison and Teevens have effectively taken a group ·of talented players and instilled in them the confidence that is needed to win. For the first time in Morrison's tenure at Union, he has commented that players have acquired confidence to .step out on the ice ill pressure situations and try the unex- pected and not depend· on one or two players to carry the team. The sixth year Head Coach cannot say enough about how important this confidence is for players on the ice. Along with this, the players have shown a willingness to work that has been missing in other Skating Dutchmen squads. The three biggest confidence buUders of the year have to be the Skating Dutchmen's per- formances against Division one foes Dartmouth, Princeton and - . most recently, Colgate. Union proved that they could play and beat top squads with their wins over the two Ivy League schools and even in defeat to Colgate (one of the East's hottest teams) it .shows that Union could skate with any team they lace up against. Morrison. has also given a great deal of praise to the quality leadership provided by co-c.aptains GillEgan and Jamie Knight. Morrison is vroud to say that Jamie and Gillare the two best captains that he has been associated with over his twenty odd years of standing behind the bench. Both juniors have taken charge on and off the ice and the results speak for themselves. Along with the clutch play between. the pipes by both Brooks and McDougall; the steady and reliable play of the blueliners and the potent Garnet scoring attack put o .. t on the ice by Morrison, this year's squad is making believers out of once-skeptics. What a difference a year can make! WRUC Sports Highlights: Friday 1/13 Union Hockey vs. Geneseo Pre-game show at 7:15p.m. Tues. 1/17 Union Hockeyvs. Salem St. Pre-game show at 7:15p.m. Wed. 1118 Sportsline's first anniversary show--11 p.m. Check daily listings for Dutchmen Basketball action this week Comin.g Next Fall .. ....._ __ Exciting Dutchmen Football Action -------~ 10 FREE WINes~, .JIM wi~h any order of 10 wingst-'~~ · Or More Buffalo Style Not Valid on Specials ChickenWings 393-0164 HOURS: \W Mon.- Thurs. 11 a.m.-1 a.m. e Specialize\ Fri. and Sat. 11 a.m.-2 a.m. Sun.12 p.m.-Midnight WING WAGON 827 McClellan St., Schenectady, New York Delivery $1.00 Every Hours-6 p.m.-Midnight

' PagL· 16 ('ON( 'OR /)1/-:N.\'J;'ii, .IUIIIIUI:J' /2, l98.J SPO s Bagnoli Kodak's Region I Coach of the Year Gridde.rs ECAC Team of Year By LOU GEORGE Sports Staff After compiling their second IJ.l season in a row the Union College football team reached their ,goal, gaining a 1983 Division III playoff birth. With Middlebury's major upset during the second to last week of the season still fresh in the Dutchmen's minds, many of the players thought they still had something to prove ... and prove it they did! ! ! During the first round of the NCAA Div. III playoffs the Gamet tide rolled over the third ranked team in the nation (Hofstra) 51-19. The Dutchmen played flawless football and proved to many skeptics that they were one of the prominent teams in Division III football. According to junior fullback. George Capozzi \Everything meshed, both the offense and defense played mistake-free football.'' The next week while everyone was home feasting during Thanksgiving, head football coach AI Bagnoli was preparing his team for a semi-final Division III contest against Salisbury St. Salisbury was the seventh ranked team in the nation. The Dutchmen took connnand of the game early, leading by a score of 23-7 when they began thinking of the NCAA Division II finals. But the Dutchmen .. began celebrating too soon, before they realized it, they were in the middle of a Salisbury comback. But Union realized what was happening soon enough }o halt Salisbury's comeback and earn a spot in the NCAA Div. III finals with a 23-21 victory. . Amos Alonzo Stagg Bowl During the next week of preparation while the school was in the midst .of final exams the Dutchmen were preparing to play the number one team in Division UI, Augustana. The previous year Augustana lost in the championship game to West Georgia 14-Q. Al Bagnoli went in with the philosophy of 'having fun' but definitely trying to win the national championship. The Dutchmen did enjoy the week. After flying to Kings Island, Ohio, the team was greeted with a large banquet for both teams. Cincinnati Bengal's quar- terback Ken Anderson, who is an alumnus of Augustana, was the guest speaker. The team also toured the National Collegiate Hall of Fame. With all the fun and honor of playing in the Amos Alonzo Stagg 'Bowl there was still the overwhelming disappointment of knowing they ha<i outplayed Augustata and were the national champions for 57 minutes. \We had it and we let it go,\ said senior defensive tackle Tom Plungis. \Everybody is disappointed because we felt we outplayed Augustana.\ Union had the advantage the entire game. With 3:09 left in the championship game Augustana scored on a fourth down two yard pass to take the lead and the national championship crown. Although the Dutchmen did not c.ome away with a national championship, it was still a fantastic year. It can also be assured that the .goals .for next seasQn will be nothiilg snort of the accomplishments of this memorable season. The Dutchmen will be losing eight seniors, six who have seen the entire transition from a 1-7 season their freshman year to a runnerup team in the country as seniors: offensive tackle Tom Quirk, offensive guard Jeff Sears, halfback Bill Huttner, linebacker Tim Howell and defensive back Joe Bogan. Receiver Rich Kellaher and center EriC DeMarco were both transfer students. Post Season Honors Some of the awards that the team and players had received include: The Dutchmen being named ECAC Team of the Year in Division III. Tim Howell being selected to the AP Little All-American team with honorable mention going to Tom Plungis, Alex Rita and Dan Stewart. Stewart, Howell and Rita were also selected to the Pizza Hut NCAA Div. Ill All~ American team, Rich Kellaher was selected to the second team and Frank Kraft and Tony Valente received Honorable Mention. Head Coach AI Bagnoli was selected as Kodak Region I Coach of the Year. The 1983 football season will always be remembered as one of the great seasons in Union College history. But this season, as great as it was, could very well be topped next year. Senior defensive end Tam Pluhgis makes his presence .known to the Hofstra QB in the Du·tchmen's 51-19 post-season romp. Plungis received AP LHtle AII·American .honorable mention honors for f:lis performance in 1983. Sports Happenings Jan. 12-19 Varsity Hockey Jan. 13 Geneseo 7:30 Jan. l7 Salern~t. 7:30 Men's Basketball Jan. l4ManhattanvHie 8:00 Jan. 17 at Middlebury 7.:30 J.V,Hockey Jan.13Phii.Jr.F.Iye.rs 3:30 Jan. 14 Northfield Mt. Hermon 1~00 J.V. Basketball Jan. l2HamHton 7:.00 Jan. 16 Hartwick 7:00 Women's Basketball Jan.l4 St. Rose 6:00 Jan. 16 at Skidmore 7:00 Jan.19atAibanySt. 7:00 Men's Swimming Jan. 14 Hobart 2:00 Jan. 18 Trinity 4:00 Men's Indoor Track Jan. 13 at Hamilton 7.:00 (Williams) Women's Indoor Track .:Jan. 13 at Hamilton 7:00 Colgate 7 Union 3 SCOREBOARD HOCKEY (4-5·1) (Williams) Union4 Middlebury 3 BASKETBALL (6-3) Williams 72 Union 66 Union 83 Rochester 70 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (l-0) Union 69 Russell Sage 49 Garnet Five 6-3 Union Soccer Finishes 12-3-2 By BLACKNESS Sports Staff Weathering early season injuries and inconsistent play, the 1983-84 Union College basketball squad has managed to post a 6-3 record. With the losses of four year starter Joe Clinton and forward Jeff Feiglson to graduation, the Dutchmen figured to be hard- pressed to match last season's accomplichtnents of a 21-5 record and an NCAA tour- nament appearance as the season opened. The road got rockier for the Dutchmen as starting forward Jim Doherty, and Rhode Island transfer guard Pete Torncello went down with pre-season injuries. Despite these losses, the Dutchmen still looked to be strong with leading scorer Joe Wood and experienced front court men Kevin Bartlett, Ken D'Orazio, and Brian Lame all returning. Experience payed off in the opening game of the season in the Capital District Tour- nament as the Dutchmen shook off an improved RPI team in the second half to ease to a 71-60 win. Wood and D'Orazio combined for 46 points while Bartlett, l~ux and sophomore ·guard .Jack Barry all turned in fine efforts. The championship game was a different story as Albany State, using a variety of defenses stifled Union's attack and held on in the second half to take the tournament title away from the Dutchmen 60-53. Joe Wood again led with 15 points while freshman guard Tim Diemoz came off the bench and chipped in with eight. Wood led the Dutchmen to a pair of easy wins over Drew and North Adams, 65-53 and 71-52 which raised the record to 3-1. In the North Adams game, Wood became the fourth player in Union's history to reach the 1,000 point plateau. Next the Dutchmen faced a stiff test at the Hartwick Invitational Tournament. The team cleared the first hurdle with a 72-58 win over Hobart. A balanced attack and strong team defense keyed the victory, For the second time, however, the Dutchmen stumbled in the championship game against the tournament's host, undefeated and nationally ranked Hart- wick. Joe Wood tossed in 25 points and was selected to his second all-tournament team this season, but it was not enough to offset Hartwick's strong inside game as the Warriors prevailed 80-63. Desperately needing a win in their last game before Christmas break, the Dutchmen traveled to Elmira and got what they wanted, an 83.:fi9 thrashing of a solid Elmira team. This game marked the first time the Dutchmen had unleashed a potent tunning game which churned out several fast-break layups. Wood again led all scorers with 26 points while freshman forward Bruce Witherspoon made his presence felt with ten rebounds. The win gave Union a 5-2 record at the break. After showing a glimpse of their potential at Ebnira, the Dutchmen fell back to square one as they were handed their third setback by Williams in their first outing of 1984. A horrendous shooting night and ·crucial defensive lapses added Continued on page 14 ByGAC-8ID Sports Staff Union's dream soccer season came to an end when Plymouth State, the New England champions, defeated the visiting Dutchmen, 3-1, for the New York-New England title andthe right to reach the NCAA Division III Final Four. Despite the setback, 11-year head coach Bob Magee was very proud of what his young team ac- complished this season. \We played as well as we coul<f,';' he said. \The guys were disappointed after the game, but I told them they had turned things around from bad to good and that they should be proud of themselves. They accomplished a lot this year, and I'm very proud of each and every one of them.\ Union, which will return all but four players next year, tied a College record for wins in a season. The 1983 Dutchmen also became the first team in the history of the sport at Union to win the Eastern Regional championship. Plymouth St., 17-1~3 and unbeaten in their last 20 games, broke open a 2-1 ball game at 6:35 of the second half. Fl'eshman Steve Hartman scored at 25:08 of the first half off an assist f~:om junic;~r Dave Philbrick to give the Dutchmen a 1-1 tie. Ho\fever, Plymouth, which had scored at 26:.55 of the fitsthalf for a 1-o lead, took a 2-1 edge into halftime on a breakaway goal with 1:48 remaining. · Union almost tied it again before the half, but the ban would not find the back of the net. \Hartman had a volley kick but he hit the ball in th&goalie's chest,\ said Magee. \The shot carried him (the Plymouth goalie) back, but the ball didn't go in.\ Senior co-captains Bernie Zeifang and Dave Sheridan end their four-year varsity careers with their best seasons. Zeifang concludes with a career total of 17-13-47 while Sheridan ended up with 15-10-40. The 8...fi-22 performance this year by Zeifang and the 8-5-21 by Sheridan were both career highs. As for the returning players; freshman Jim Monks established a College record for both goals and points in a season by a rookie with 12-5-29. JW1ior Peter Stegemann had his best goal output with six, and enters his final season with a three-year total of 16-5-37. Freshmen Doug Wilk and Bob Crandall each had outstanding years as did Union's top defender Guy Clavelous. Goalie · Mike Harris was outstanding for the Dutchmen as he started every game. He allowed just 21 goals and posted four shutouts· with 56 saves. He will enter his final campaign with a 14-8-4 record. Magee was so pleased >Vith his team's performance that he did not even want to think about ne:lli season yet. \The experience we gained this year will help us a lot next year. However, I just want to sit back and enjoy what we ac- complished for a while!' Unioh boaters Tom cutter; goalie Mike Harris, and co· captain Bernie Zeifang· scramble to protect the Dutchmen's goal in playoff action against R.I. T. ell ra '0 (/) ra 0 \- u c:i > .0 0 - 0 .r::. Cl. .... • ( C< m nc m 0~ so A8 be ta C1 te PI th re te th C<J se Q\ dE cc th al th bE pE re st m se CE OI of bl m aE st m 0 di CE cc fo rn e} s' w m Ci CC c< P< cl eE ac u di vc fit fe rt bt bt bt

- - • (]) 10 \0 (/) 10 0 \- u c:i >- .c 0 0 .c c. CXlH, York January 19, 1984 Forum Addresses Split Term Plan By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Features Editor This week the Student Foruin held two sessions; one regular session, and another, earlier meeting in which student reaction to the proposed Split o Winter Term Calendar (SWTC) a was elicited. close of winter term. Spring term would then commence (approximately March 15) . The year would come to a close near the end of Mayt ending_ no later than June 3-one to two weeks earlier than the existing schedule. Dean of Students Joseph Mammola and Assistah't Dean Robert Massa opt tor new se'lection process of Conduct Committee members. The afternoon session, which was held in Strauss Lounge was attended by Forum members, George, Hecksher:. Midoneck, Simon, Thurlowt and Viglielmo. Approximately thirty students showed up. The purpose of this meeting was to get a sampling of student input so that the Student Trustees (Midoneck and Viglielmo )could adequately represent the students' views to the Board of· Trustees at its upcoming meeting. Several reasons were given for the new plan: the decline in the quality of student work near the end of spring term, a method to break up the long winter-spring term 'siege', the plan gives professors time to 'recharge their batteries' in between terms; and the fact that the new schedule is more aUgned with schools on the semester system. The plan, which was proposed by the Committee on Union Education (CUE), could.go into effect as soon as next year if accepted. Questionable Conduct By MARCY BURS1'1NER Staff A temporary position on the Conduct Committee has been made available, it was · an- nounced at the Student Forum meeting two weeks ago. This opening, it seems, has created some controversy, according to Assistant Dean Robert Massa, because of a leave of absence taken by one :member of the Conduct Committee for winter term. Although not customary proaedure, admitted Massa, this student will be allowed to return to her post for spring term. Jared Squires, chairman of the- Committee on Committees, co:rrnnented that there did not seem to be any constitutional questions regarding th~ decision. Massa supported this conclusion and also stated that there were several reasons for ....._ allowing her to serve again in the spring--the most important being her three years' ex- perience on the committee. \Historically the Forum has refrained from appointing students to important com- mittees who would not be able to serve the entire year. In the caf!e of (this student) she had an opportunity, that she was aware of only after the Thanksgiving break, to participate in a marine biology program. She asked me if she'd have to resign . . . I knew there were no con- stitutional problems. She is the most experienced person on the Conduct Committee ... I simply did not want to lose that.\ When. asked whether an ex- ception was being made til her case, Massa hesitated before formulating a reply. If it had been a nov.ice rather than an experienced student, he an- swered, the same \Clecisio.n would probably have been made. In his opinion, the College is . supposed to en- col,lrage student partlcipation in campus activities. If such participation must me~ the closing of other opportWlities essential to a student's academic or career goals, then the College is in effect discouraging campus in- volvement. Without some fleXibility in the system, he feels, the student government runs the risk of becoming too bureaucr~tic for it to be in the best interest of th~ student body. One student on the forum did express concern over the possibility. of setting a precedent which may lead to some detrimental effects. It · was believed that such a precedent might encourage other students .in this or any other corrirriittee to let their commitment to an elected position take second place to a temptation to go on a term abroad. Concern was also ex:- pressed over whether or not a student in a temporary conduct eommittee post should be given a vote in the judicial proceedings. The Conduct Committee, a1though by constitutional definition is not a \legal en- tity\ it is responsible for determining the guilt or in- nocence of students charged with violations of the conduct code. Even though the dean of students does make the final decision concerning any form of official sanction, reprimand, or punishment, the Conduct Commiitee makes recom- mendations to the dean as to what particular sanction should be imposed. In the past, Mammola remarked, he bas accepted all the recom- mendations they have made to him. • On a related issue, the selection process of the Conduct Committee bas also been questioned. Both Massa and Dean of Students Joseph Mammola believe that changes in the Committee on Com- mittee's methOd of selecting members for the Conduct Committee each spring should be revised. i\lthough such change is only being discussed now as a future possibility and no official action has presently been taken, both men seem to feel strongly about the need· for a change. COC should take into account the sex of the applicant, not in terms of any strict quota, but only in order to achieve a \somewhat balanced\ representation. In changing the selection process, both Massa and Mammola tried to emphasize that it does not imply that any power would be taken awa,y from the COC. \In no way,\ Massa SUited, \is it meant to imply a greater control by the Administration . . . Basically the Conduct Committee is a student committee chosen by students.\ Mammola added that he was \perfectly satisfied\ to let the Student Forum handle the selection of all committee members and that it is only a matter of taking the two forementioned problems into account. Mammola also expressed his desire that the selection of the committee be completed over a longer period of time. He seemed to feel that as the situation now stands., there is a \last minute rush to make the selections\ for the Conduct Committee. This year there are eight seniors and one junior on the >- committee. The result, Massa ~ explained, Is that next year ~ there will be at least eight ci members with no experience. c They are seeking a selection ~ process which will insure a >- fairly equal representation of ~ all classes. 15 .c In addition,. there are now c. What the proposed plan specifically does is change the present three ten-week term tri- mester schedule to one in which the year as a whole would commence approximately two weeks earlier. Fall term (each term is still ten weeks in length) and finals would finish . ap- proximately the third week in November. A two week vacation for Thanksgiving would then take place. After Thanksgiving, students and faculty would return to Union to commence the first three weeks of the winter term. School would then break for a three-week vacationt which is more in line with those of schools utilizing . the semester system. Upon return to school (sometime in the first week of January) the winter term would reslliile for the next seven weeks and finals. Another two- week vacation would follow the i~'\ Of the students present at the meeting, approximately two- thirds were against the plan. Frank Serena t83, a graduate student brought up several negative points: \CUE's· first argument was against the decline in work spring term. I -cannot agree with that, for I have found my work does not slack off, but often improves. As for the long 'siege', the present week bet- ween terms (winter and spring) is still a break. It is often an actual week and a half. Lastly, there would be numerous problems with the scheduling of tetms abroad.'' Greg Shack '85 also criticized the plan's effects on the terms abroad program; \I recently came back from a term in England. With the new schedule it would have been impossible for me to have gone-I would Continued on page 2 seven women on the committee as opposed to only two men. Massa ~as quick to comment that although he does not · question the judgment .of the women involved, \it could be construed by the defendent as being unfair.\ He feels that the The Unipn College Child C?tre Center offers daycare services to the college community. ;--Phone Hearings Page3 Sports Talk Page 11

1/) c :0 .0 0 0! Q) > Q) +- V) >- .0 0 0 ..c Q. <'ONCORDIEVSIS, January t9. 1984 Forum DiscusseS Issues Post-Christmas tidings from Director of Food Services Jan Gray Coupons Given By AARON TOFFLE:R Staff When Union students returned to Schenectady to face the long, cold winter term, they found they had been given a late Christmas present by the food service Santa Claus. As each student renewed his-her meal card, he was presented with a fifteen dollar gift pac, com· pliments of Director of Food Services Jan Gray and the rest of the Food Service employees. This gift pac includes two tickets good for one brunch each at West Dining Hall, plus six dollars worth of coupons. Gray, who .is the director of Food Services, explains that the coupons can be redeemed for \anything other than alcohol.\ at the Sekllar, the Pub or West's Dining hall. When redeemed, no change will be given, so it would behoove the student to use as much of the allotted amount as possible. Why the freebie coupons that are good only for the winter term? Gray noted that there is a significant decrease in the number of people enrolled for the meal plan winter term. Although unable to explain this situation, Gray believes these coupons may \stimulate ·in- terest in the meal plan\ and perhaps provide some relief for the \winter doldrwns.\ As she noted, \Downtown Schenectady is not the most exciting place to be in the winter.\ If nothing else, these coupons made the students look favorably upon an otherwise distasteful subject, college food. One freshman commented, \I think they (the coupons) are a good idea. If you have a friend up for the weekend they can get brunch without paying for it.'' And so, to Jan Gray and staff, we say thanks for un- derstanding and we'll see you at brunch. Continued from page 1 have been required to ·\tstay either two terms or a whole year (because of scheduling conflicts). I could not afford to compromi~e that mUch time;\ Steve Benson '85, criticized the plan's effects on summer job prospects; \With the new plan, Union students are at a disadvantage. One of the reasons why employers hire us is our ability to work past Labor Day. With the proposed,plan, we can no longer work through Labor Day, nor start as early as the students on the semester system. I foresee .definite problems beca;use of. this.'·' Joyce ·Teitlbaum '85 was also critical of the plan; ''. . . an actual benefit to the split? I think there would be more problems from having to restart classes and to remotivate the s~udents. The declining work quality during the spring is a personal issue, one to be regulated by the individual.'' Numerous comments for the plan were also present.. Barty Cohen spoke of the advantages of an actual winter-spring break; \Ifind that by the end of the year I am totally burnt out. The inter~term vacation would give the students some rest.\ As for the earlier starting date, ''I would rather gain w vacations and lose the weeks,\ he added. Maureen Coleman '86 also gave positive feedback for the plan; \The school I attended before Union utilized a similar type of system which worked perfectly. Though work was assigned during the mid-winter term break, it was minimal.\ Win Thurlow, Student Foriun President then · noted that a similar 'plan has been im~ ' > CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS \New Light on King Arthur\ Geoffrey Ashe, Thomas Lamont, visiting professor of ancient and modern literature at Union, will lecture on \New Light on King Arthur\ Thur- sday, Jan. 19, in Old Chapel at 8:30p.m. Admission is free and the public is invited to attend. Ashe is the first Lamont visiting professor and will be on campus Jan. 16-27. He is a graduate of Trinity College, Cambridge, and bas taught at the Polish University College in· London and at The Polytechnic. He is the author of more than 20 volumes, including All About King Arthur, Do What Yon Will: A History of Anti•inorality, Gandhi: A Study in Revolution and The Tale of the Tub: A Survey of the Art of :Bathing through the Ages. He has been a contributor to the Daily Telegraph, New Statesman, · Commonweal and other periodicals. Ashe ·is currently completing a new biography of King Arthur, sections of which have appeared in Speculum. Talk on Women In Politics Congresswoman Geraldine Ferraro (D-New York) will deliver a lectw·e at Union on \The Future of Women An American Electoral Politics\ Thursday, Jan. 19, at 7:30p.m. in Social Sciences Building Room 016. The talk is sponsored by Political Forum and the Political Science Department, and is open to the public, free .of charge. Congresswoman Ferraro, whose - 9th Congressional District is in Queens, was first elected to Congress in 1978. She currently serves on the House Budget Committee, Public Works and Transportation Committee, and Select Com- mittee on Aging. Ferraro has been described by Congressional Quarterly as ''the most influential member o of anew generation of women in the House Who are comfortable as feminists and- yet skillful at working with the traditional power structure.\ - In 1981 she served as a member of the Hunt Com- mission, which revised the Democratic Party's presidential nominating ' procedures. In recent montm; she has been mentioned in the press as a potential vice presidential candidate. In the House she has been involved with such issues as women's economic equity, increased federal support for mass transit, tougher safety requirements for the shipment of radioactive waste, preser- ving flextime work schedules for federal workers, and im- proved social services for senior citizens. Ferraro is a graduate of Marymount College and For- dham University Law School. She was engaged in the private practice of law from 1961 to 1974, at which time she became an assistant district attorney in Queens. There she headed the Special Victims Bureau, which dealt with child, abuse, domestic violence, rape, and crimes against .senior citizens. When she ran for Congress in 1978 she was given little chance of victory by political insiders, but scored a major upset winning with 53 percent of the vote. By 1982 she had strengthened her hold on the district to the point that she won with 73 percent of the vote. JAM Sponsors Management Talk Daniel R. Conlon, president of Instruments for Research and Industry, will discuss \Unique Aspects of Managing the Smaller Manufacturing Companies\ at an Administrative and Engineering Systems CoUoquiwn at Union Thursday, Jan. 19. The talk, sponsored by the Institute of Administration and Management, will begin at 3:45p.m. in Bailey .Hall Room 312 and·is open to the public. Conlon graduated in 1935 from Union as a chemistry major and went to work for Atlantic Refining Company, whicn specialized in petroleum refining and petroleum production research. He then accepted a position with Rohm and Haas as a physical chemist involved with instrumentation. Durtng this period, Conlon invented ,several laboratory gadgets for organi-c chemists. fn 1957 he left Robin and Haas to start a small business manufacturing such apparatus. This business, Instruments for Research ann Industry, is now 26 years old and is .knoWn throughout the chelnical community for the novel products which they manufacture, as wen as for the cartoon calendar they publish. In his talk at Union, Conlon will discuss the excitement and challenges of running a small company-the creative op- portunities in small businesses in the areas of product in• vention, employee relations, and relations withil) the country's scientific-community. p·lemented at Hobart wjth positive results dur.in.g the past ten years .. In addition to the CUE proposal, Mathernatfcs Professor Alan Taylor has also made ait alternative proposal, one composed of three nine- week terms. According to the Taylor plan, though the term duration would be .shorter, actual class time would 1n- crease. This plan was met with opposition by all of the present students. ''It would be too rushed,'' and \. . . we -would. have less time .to work und~r an already tight schedule,'' were just some of the criticisms echoed by the students. Though a consensus on the _ plan was not reached, the present forum members praised the attending students for their input. It was also stressed by President Thurlow that discussion on the. issue has not ended yet. Evening Session . The regular Student Forum session was held this past Monday, Jan. 17 at 10:00 p.m. (which will be the new forum meeting time). A variety of issues was discussed, including . a review of the afternoon's session. The committee reports were presented first. Jamie Dan~ ziger, Student Representative to the Academic Affairs Council (AAC) gave his . report. Presently the AAC has just approved a new course, History 56-\The History of Poland\ to be taught by Professor Stephen Berk. The class may begin as early as this spring. A com- mittee has been recently for- med to investigat~ the- . possibility and criteria for a : Union geology major. Tbe AAC has also received the ABED ~ report (the Engineering Department's report of evaluation•accredidation), Several recommendations of the report are being examined. 'l'he last item discussed was the possibility of an electrical engineering seminar. As the proposal stands now, problems with faculty overloading have arisen. -Shari Midoneck, Junior Student Trustee, went over the agenda for the upcoming Board of Trustees meeting. The meeting will consist of two parts: one discussing student activities and affairs, the other covering fmances of the College. 1 At the · student affairs meeting, Midoneck and Viglielmo (the other student trustee) are scheduled to speak the 'needs of the students.' As for the split- term proposal, Midoneck will present the pro argument, while Viglielmo will speak against the plan, reflecting the lack of consensus among the students. Steve Benson, Representative to the Independent Student Notice to All Upperclass. Meal Card Holders: on Tuesday, January 24, 1984, a II upperd ass meal card holders are to eat at West College· Dining Hall, for dinner. Hale House wi II be • closed fo all upperdass . meal card holders on . Tuesday, January 24, · 1984 for dinner. Coalition (ISC), reported em the ISC's .activity. Presently the ISC is :preparing to mount an enormouslobbying effort aimed at passage of the TAP parity bill. If TAP . were passe<,l,. it would mean huge increases in the state financial aid paid to the independent private colleges. A five to six W{lek lobbying effort is proposed, .aimed at the State Assembly, where the bill has yet to pass. Lobbying wiH begin as early as February 7. Ben Hecksher, Vice President for Finance, presented the Finance Com., mittee report next. Only one additional funding request was m·ade; by the Pre..-Health Society for additional money for speakers. Hecksher proposed a motion (to the forum) to allot the additional $3.45.00 requested. The motion pased unanimously. It was also announced that $2,221.00 remains in student activities funds. Last to be heard from was the Committee on Committees (COC). Jared Squires, COC chairman, presented two new constitutions for forum ap- proval: the Union Women's Rugby Football Club and the Union Women's Support Group. The constitutions were con- sideted separately, with the U.C. Women's Rugby Club receiving unanimous approval. Problems arose with the approval of the Union Women's Stipport Group (UCWSG) constitution. As it was originally introduced, the group declared itself a funded (through student activities monies) group. After Squires made a motion for con- stitutional approval,. - Ben Hecksher raised the issue questioning the purpose and function of the group; \ .... is not the UCWSG a counseling ser- vice?\ Other members agreed. witb Hecksher, and questioned whether or not the counseling center could not provide a similar type of service. Jamie Danziger then made an amending motion to consider the issues of constitutionality and funding separately. This motion was passed unanimously. A second vote was then taken to table discussion on the constitution until next week, which passed. The area of 'New Business' was then discussed. The only- new topic for discussion was the Split Winter Term proposal. A suggestion was made for the foruD), the repr~sentative body of the students, to make a formal statement of the group's attitude toward the new proposal. A motion was then made to poll tl:le student body (at a presently open-ended date) in order for the forlim to determine just how the students feelabout the issue. This motion also passed. - The Committee on Committees is now accepting applications for . one position on. the Skellar Board. Pick up plications in ap- the · Student Activities • Office. Deadline: Jhurs, Jan .. 26 ( Cl 0 PE st th pl $4 in 0' 111 R w F: PI Cl hE T~ Tl S• tb FE ci: d< th cl te te M 31 C( m u $2 a< of re of c tJ 8 n b 0 d s b F I v F f li

'-,,' CONCORDIENSIS. Januar.r 19, 1984 Page3 Costs on the line . • • Phone Hearings Held By SAitAHCALDERINI Staff ' In September~ Paul Goia, Chairman of the Public Service Commission (PSC) received a petition signed by '800 Union students concerned with, what they considered, a preposterous phone. installation charge of $46.00. PSC. Martin is opti.tnistic and confident about the outcome of the situation. · Outrageous installation fee increases directly affect all current freshmen, sophomores and juniors. According to Fassberg, the PSC is very receptive to special interest groups. She ur~es all concerned students to write letters to the PSC. Letters can be sent to: New York State Public Service Commission, 3 Empire State Plaza, Albany, N.Y. I Sophomore Stacy Fassberg takes up phone issue in A·lbany. Ill .c: u 10 VI w a. > .0 ~ .s::: Q. Since then, a lot has happened in Albany. The case was handed over to Dan Martin, Chief Investigator for the Tariff and Rate Commission. He, along with Sophomore Stacy Fassberg's assistance, has been preparing t~stimonies and cross-examinations for the hearings between New York Telephone (NY'r) and the PSG. The heariQgs, which began in 'September, will continue through June. its current $46.00 charge and its request .for an increase are not unreasonable. Fassberg ex- plains that student phone charges are figured on an average along with pbone lines of .residents immediately surrounding campus. Fassberr says, \The phone company swears by the averaging system, that's why the ·rates have been so high.'' She also states, \It (NYT) says that if it charges us (Union students} less, residents around us Will pay ml)re.\ Cost To Connect Part of the basic residential fee is to subsidize the cost of printing of nw:nbers in the Schenectady phone directory. However, while Union students' phone numbers are ·not published in the book, they are still paying to cover the printing cost. NYT also claims that college dormitory phones cost more to connect because they must be disconnected in Jun~. Rebuttal testimony states \CTX (Centrex) dormitory terminations occur with much greater frequency . . . If these costs are not recovered from the CTX ,dormitory customer,. they too become an added burd~n on all other residential users.\ Nevertheless, Martin's analysis shows that students are being overcharged for the disconnecting as well as the connecting of their phones~ . Job Market Brightens Nationwide Increase . New York Telephone has requested a nation-wide in- crease in excess of one billion dollars. This rate hike would thus bring student installation charges up to $72.00 next Sep- tember. According to a rebuttal testimony of the case, \Mr. Martin performed an analysis and concluded that the average cost to connect a centrex dor- mitory line (the system which Union presently has) is about $20.00.\ This actual cost in addition to a $12.5(). central office line charge would bring a reasonable installation charge of $32.50. . However, NYT feels that both The final decision on the he!lrings is made by the ad- ministrative law judges of the (CPS) The class of 1984 will enjoy one of the most dramatic up- turns in the job market in recent history, according to two just- released national studies. After several years of dismal employment conditions for \the nation's college graduates, it appears job offers, as well as salaries, will be up significantly this spring. · \At the B.A. level, things are going to be up about 20 per- cent,\ proclaims Victor Lin· dquist, placement chief at Northwestern UniverSity and author of that school's Endicott Report on the national job ma:cket. \For the first time in several years we're starting to see an increase in the number of jobs for college graduates,\ echoes Jack Shingleton, Michigan State's placement director and supervisor of MSU's annual IFC Sponsors Workshops By CHRIS SULLIVAN Se~tetary, IFG Council The Interfraternity Council (IFG) held its first meeting of the winter term January 11 at 8:00 p.m. on fourth floor Car- negie. The IFC recently underwent a series of major organizational changes, many of them .the result of hard work by Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa. It is hoped that these changes will strengthen the IFC' s pasition among the fraternities and the campus community. One major activity sponsored by the IFG this year is a series of public workshops, which will discuss topics such as leader- ship training, co-operative food buying, B!lcohol awareness, and Host Liability for Alcohol Related Accidents. The latter workshop will be held on February land, although it will focus on fraternity-sorority liability, . it will also be ap- plicable to other organizations. The Leadership Training Workshop. is the second one scheduled, and will be held at the end.of February in the hopes that incoming fraternity ad- ministrators may get off to a good start by utilizing some of tbe ideas presented. Among the topics covered will be motlvatlon, delegation of authority and group decision making. The IFC has also been developing a planned social calendar that may help to alleviate some of the over- crowding , .. at open-campus. fraternity parties. This situation has led to some problems \in the past, and the; IFC believes it must take st~· to resolve these problems. Recently, the IFC met with the social chairs of each house, including sororities, in an effort to draw up an effective plan that will please all· the houses in- volved. It will be announced next week. The IFC is also planning on sponsoring a Swim~a-thon to benefit the Leukemia Society. This will be held on the 26th of February, from 12:00-6:00 p.m. at Union's Alumni Gym. The fraternity that raises the most money will be awarded a keg and, in addition, individual efforts will be awarded with prizes, such as a color television and a $25.00 gift certificate. Sponsors will be going door to door for donations and a booth will be set up in Carnegie the week of the 21st of February to take in additional pledges. The Leukemia Society and the IFG appreciate your support. The next meeting of the IFG will be on February 1 at 7:30 · p.m. The location will be an- nounced and more information about the Liability Workshop to be held at the next meeting, will appear in this column next week. FRESHMAN & SENIOR ELECT.IONS An election to fill 1 senior and 2 freshman representative vacancies on the StudenfForumwiH be held: Friday. January 27 Any freshman or senior interested in these positions should pick up petitions from Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities office, Carneg,ie Hall Return completed peti-tions, alot;~g with statements for Concordiensis as to why the student is seeking office, by 4:30p.m. Tues., January 24th. * Anyone running for office must have their picture taken at Concordiensis, Tuesday i January 24th. jobs forecast. Although MUS's study is noticeably more conservativ6---'- Shingleton expects only a five percent increase in the nwnber of job offers~both jobs forecasts expect 1984 grads to fare far better than their predecessors in 1982 and 1983. \The market overall is bouncing back from this two- year decline we've been going through,\ notes Lindquist. Besides the predicted 20 · percent increase in job op- portunities for four-year grads,. Lindquist says, \the market will also be strong at the master's level in engineering,\ he adds. \The 'Double E' (electrical engineering) degree is going to be the crown princ6---'- up 28 percent over last year- along with degrees in the computer science area.\ Shingleton thinks those figures may be too optimistic, but agrees that \demand is stronger,\ and that \the cure is moving in a positive direction for a change.\ \There will be a heavy em- phasis on electrical engineering and. computer science majors,\ he says, \although chemical and petroleum engineers will have a more difficult time this year.\ The upturn has been coming gradually. In August, 1983, College Press Service reported a growing sense of optimism among campus placement directors that the end of the recession and the coming of an election year signaled better times ahead for collegiate job Seekers. And in an October, 1983 CPS article, both Shingleton and Lindquist accurately predicted the upbeat results of their 1984 jobs forecasts. Geographically, Shingleton says, the southwest, southeast, and south central sections of the country will have the best job opportunities. The northeast, midwest, and northwest regions will be the worst areas for job seekers. According to the MSU study, electrical engineers will have the highest starting salaries-at $26,643-of all four-year grads. Starting salaries for agriculture and marketing majors will hover around $17,500, and ac- counting majors can eKpect to earn about $18,600. Education majors-at $14, 779-and human ecology grads-at $13,917-have ~he dubious distinction of being the lowest-paid majors for the coming year. Even with their rosy predictions for the coming year, however, both studies caution that graduates will still have plenty of competition for job openings. \It's still a buyer's market,\ Lindquist warns. \It will be very competitive, and if students are going to be suc- cessful they'll have to be aggressive in their search.\ And while the market may look brighter for grads with masters and bachelors degrees, Ph.Ds may have a harder time than ever finding employment. A new Princeton University report predicts that there will be three times as many Ph.Ds flooding the academic job market as there are jobs available for them. WRUC Elections ByRSB Staff Calling for a new direction, W. Scott Wykoff was elected as the new General Manager !)f WRUC in a special election held Monday. Wykoff, the WRUC Sports Director, defeated three other candidates to become the senior officer of the largest student organization , on campus. Running against 'Wykoff were Jeff Dinces, WRUC Program Manager and Acting General Manager; Mike Palmer, a Music Director; and Russ Fein, a disc jockey. When no can- didate received a majority (50 percent plus 1) of the votes, the top two candidates, Wykoff (13 votes) and Dinces (11 votes) engaged in a runoff election, while Palmer and Fein { 4 votes each) were eliminated. Wykoff then defeated Dinces by a margin of 19 votes ~0 13. The position of General Manager became open when Richard Biegen resigned last November. ;Biegen was the fourth radio station officer to resign in 1983 (Brett Putnam. Wayne J osel and Mitch eli Friedman were the others). Scott Wykoff is now the sixth WRUC General Manager in less than two years (Jeff Mitchell, Al . Goldberg, Andy Nevas, Biegen, and Dinces are the others). All WRUC offices expil\e at the end of this term, and there will be an election to fill them for the next year in about six. weeks. After the election, Wykoff said he \would like the station to have a more dynamic role in the college community.\ He Would also like the station to command more respect on campus. To achieve these goals, , Wykoff intends to unify the various factions among the radio station members; and work closely with the ad- ministration. W. Scott Wykoff is a junior History major from Cleveland Heights, Ohio, and is a member of the Sigma Chi Fraternity. He plans to make a career out of Communications.

Page .J CONCORDJENSIS, Januan /9, 198.J . . Ill c: .0 .0 0 ·0:: QJ > QJ .,_ V). >- .0 E 0 .c: c. FEATURES Laurie Segal, Aerobics instructor Drowning In.Apathy By. CHRIS SILER The sight of a Union College freslunan dad in a bathing suit at the alumni gym gave me cause to ponder. Surely this strangerwouldnever guess that it was he who compelled me to write of what has been disturbing me since that day he decided to \go back.\ The young man had excellent swimming form, obviously having competed previously in high school. His once finely• tuned body was barely evident . however, lost somewhere in an out-of·shape form. In essence, this former athlete had \lost Good Health at a Good Price · it.\ Didn't the pool somehow bring back memories of past triwnphs? Where did it all go? Why doe~ tbis happen to so many of us? Growing older and going to college often brings a shift in priorities. This shift does not go hand~in-hand with the loss of motivation, as·. it. may se~m. Take the swimmer. Once doing \repeats\ in a pool was im- portant to him, now his \repeats\ are those performed with a beer in hand at the Skellar four nights a week. He forgets the person he used to be, reveling in his new college status, until someone who went to high school with him proposes a toast to ''the relay we won at sectiomus last year.\ That's when a wave of nostalgia hits him, as unpleasant as the feeling he experienced when he heard Ml> his old records had been broken. During the next beer he becomes thoughtful as he wonders: \Will I ever win again? Why don't I care anymore? Is it too. late?\ Finally he vows to ~ee the swim coach tomorrow. But tomorrow he is too busy. The point is...,it doesn't have to be that way. College is not an excuse to let one's talents go to waste. So you're tired of soccer or swimming after four years of it in high school. Put yoW' energies elsewhere. An epidemic of apathy is sweeping college campuses--don't let yourself get caught up in it. Get involved, and become your best self, not tomorrow but today. You won't always have the chance~ By LISA FOLEY Staff In a time when the trend is to shape up your body through daily exercise, Laurie Segal provides Union College students with what her aerobics' class students refer to as \a good solid workout.\ Laurie, a junior who transferred to Union this year, established her aerobics class at Orientation. Starting with a forty-nine member class (that met six times weekly for ten weeks) last fall, forty~five of the original aerobics en- thusiasts returned to make up her advanced aerobics class this term. Forty-five additional Union students filled Laurie's beginner aerobics class on the first day she had registration this term. Her aerobics classes, for which she charges $20.00 for new members and $15.00 for returning members, meets five times weekly for the advanced class and four times weekly for her beginner class for a period of 10 weeks. Laurie's enthusiasm for physical fitness and her ex- tensive experience in in- structing aerobics both in the United States and throughout Europe account for her success. In Richmond's.ba·sement lounge from ~ p.m. on most days of the week one can see . her students working out to the music's energetic beat and Laurie's encouraging leader- ship, \5 6, 7, ,a_ And again. Come on. Work it. Get those legs moving.\ Larry Tuckman, who is one of 19 men in Laurie's advanced class stressed that he likes working out with a group and that the class provided a good workout. Beth Levine, a returning member agreed that the good workout makes the class fun, motivating her not to miss a class. The class is also fun for Laurie. \These people are glad I'm here. The music, exercise and especially the people really make the class. I love it. They're helping me stay in shape too.'' Laurie, in her freslunan year at U.C.L.A. revived a class she joined, when it threatened to end as a result of the instructor transferring. Laurie pursued her new-found interest in in- structing aerobics by earning an instructor certificate from the National Athletic Association and teaching the summer after her freshman year at Jack LaLane. Laurie continued to teach aerobics at UCLA her first term sophomore year, after which she left U,PLA. From there, upon hearing that Jane Fonda programs ran in Europe, she traveled around Europe alone last spring for thr-ee months to teach aerobics at fitness clubs Guidelines for Dutchman's Night Reservations Reservations for Dutchman's Night will only be accepted at the Pizza Pub during normal business hours Monday through Thursday. · • When making reservations all persons or meal cards must be present. This is to insure proper reservation taking. • The party must be booked all at once, this will insure a better dining atmosphere. We cannot accept \maybe\ reservations. • Cash reservations are welcome. Those who Will be paying for dinner, please pay at the door. • A person must bring his-her 10, meal card and entry ticket at Dutchman's Night. If these are not present, a person cannot be seated. • Anyone caught using another individual's I D, meal card or dinner ticket will be turned over to the director of food service. Meal card and I D will be taken. • Because of a large dining room turnover, we ask that you be prompt for dinner. This will insure an easy turnover, and no waiting for people at later seatings. Management of the Dutch Hollow Pub there. Laurie taught at a total of 30 clubs including the Pineapple Dance in London, England, American Exercise in Athens, Greece, the Bath House in Austria and Le Salon in Paris, France. From her experiences Laurie combines an emphasis on aerobics to strengthen heart and lungs and to burn calories, and exercises that concentrate on a general toning and building of muscles. Her present goal for her classes includes working up to 40 continuous minutes of aerobics for her advanced class and 25 minutes of aerobics for her beginner class. Currently Laurie Is a psychology·biology major who intends to become a psychiatrist. Her plans for future instruction of aerobics will remain a fun way of staying in shape. 'V. The administration at Union College was at first concerned about Laurie's aerobics class. But Laurie's aerobic instructor qualification and CPR have eased their concerns. In ad- dition, Laurie continuously checks with students during classes to make sure they are not straining any muscles. Laurie has had no one hurt in her fall class or yet iri her winter classes. Continue your interest in photography wlth Concordiensis First meeting of term today: Thursday, Jan. 19th 4th Floor Carnegie at the Concordy Office Drop a note at Box 1956 if you can't make it Super Bowl BASH! l(est<turarit ard E~r. .S()1 1-{1.\TII[ ST. 3q3. ()Sq'-1 Sunday, Jan. 22 12:00-.3:00-·BLOODY MARY BRUNCH Pancakes, French Toast, Eggs Coffee Cake, Blueberry Muffins *Bloody Mary's$1.00* 3:00·8:00 SUPER BOWL BASH Hot Buffet- $5.00 • Tick~ts at Slapshots *FRIDAY .HAPPY HOUR 4·8 p.m. 25¢ Beers • 95¢ Mixed Drinks - - OJ tJ . t< D II I\ tl I b s \' II t1 l B c v n p p

-- ~. - CONCORDIENSJS, JanuarJ' 19, 1984 PageS FEATURES Issue of the Issue By JUDI PmLIPSON Staff Question: What is your opinion ·of changing our present tri~mester system to one con- . taining a split winter term? Dave Van Buren '85 ''I'm for it. ~\'lything to get me out of this place ·earlier. Now the. vacation stretches out too much into the summer. And I don't favor the ·change just because I want to have fun . . . Shari Wolf '87 · '''It would be good because it would be a real let down to see my friends only for one week, as the situation stands new .. ·. '' Larry Kaminsky '86 \Are they doing it?'' Richard Lev '87 \It's good becavse it coin- cides better with the other vacations. I could now spend more time with my friends.\ Professor Felmon Davis - Philosophy \. . . It might have some consequences for. the Term Abroad Program. If it affects it adversely then the split-term system Would be a problem. Speaking as a scholar and a teacher, it's great ... we all need time and space to reflect on life.'' Elaine Pjck '87 \It would be a plus for the athletic teams-we 'now can't have games before the other schools ... w.e are presently in a no win situation.\ Jason Osbins '87 \I like it-it's a great idea ... That way we can all go down to Florida and have one week more of seJ~: in Ft. Lauderdale .. \ Cris Corso '87 \I'd like it because we'd be on schedule with other schools. We'd be able to see friends. Plus, it would be easier for getting summer jobs. Ira Suckman '87 \Two weeks Spring break in UNION. COLLEGE THURSDAy I JANUARY 19th Ill SLAT ION by Brian Friel December 31-January 22 Star-crossed lovers in 19th Century Ireland. Performances: Tuesday-Saturday 8:00pm; Sunday 2:30pm and Wednesday, Jan. 4, 2:30pm Non Student 11ckE)ts $8-$13 Students with I.D. Y2 price Tuesday-Thursday evenings, ahd Sunday Matinee. limited availability SO minutes.beforecurtain. 111 NorthPearl Street. Albany, New York 518-462-4534 Tickets available at The Market Theatre and Community Box Offices. MasterCard and VISA accepted. (No refunds or exchanges.) 10 FREE WINGS~~.-~ with any order of 10 wingst~l~~ · Or More -Buffalo Style Not Valid on Specials Chicken Wings 393 0 16 .. 4 . HOURS: · ·. • ·· · Mon.·Thurs. H a.m.-1 a.m. uw· . s . \ . ,. , . . e pecra rze Fn. and Sat. 11 a.m.\2 a.m. sun.12 p.m.-Midnight WING.WAGON 827 McClellan St., Schenectady, New York Delivery $1.00· Every Hours-6p.m.·Midnight Florida would be a much better option than what we have now .. . I guess I reallytlon't know\ I haven't really been here long enough to know which is better. Do you have any question that you would like to have posed to the student body? If so please send to box 2577. Professor Jan Ludwig, Cha.irman of the Conservatorial Committee. Searching for the Past By PETER MOHR Staff During thE:l fall of 1982, the Conservatorial Committee was appointed by President Morris. .According to its charge, the committee's purpose· is to ''identify objects ·of artistic or historical significance belonging to the College and present on campus or elsewhere.\ Dr. Morris felt that there was a need to establish a record of such artifacts and to ensure that these objects wer~ being preserved in the best manner possible. Professor Jan Ludwig, chairman of the philosophy department, was selected to chair the committee. Other members include Professors Ruth Anne Evans of the library, Daniel Robbins, chairman .of the arts depart- ment, and William Stone of mathematics. Jack Maranville, Executive Associate to the President, was appointed to the committee as well. In addition, junior Gayle Rosenfeld was hirec,l to· photograph the various artifacts · recorded and generally to assist the com- mittee .. During the winter and spring terms of last year, the com- mittee was primarily interested. in documenting the more familiar objects on campus, such as the paintings situated in Memorial Chapel. A survey was also conducted of the faculty and staff with the hope of locating objects which few people knew about but were ftnportant to Union's history. Through this survey, various artifacts were brought to light. One office notified the com- mittee of several medals it possessed which were issued by the College in the nineteenth century; these medals had been . unknown, except to members of the department. Another in- teresting item found is Nott's stove, named after its inventor, Eliphalet Nott. The stove burns anthracite coal, which is much harder than the coal used in earlier stoves. Ciass beanies from different years were \discovered\ as well. The committee has developed a procedure to record the numerous objects on campus. First, a written record is made of the artifact. In the case of a painting, the record would include the picture's dimen- sions, medium, and location. The painting's age and the artist who painted it, if known, would also be noted. The second step involves photographing the object. Thus far, the committee has catalogued 338 items by employing this method . Eventually, it is hoped that the records of these objects, which are now kept on individual sheets, will be transferred to one large journal. Both Evans and Ludwig have expressed a desire to see this information stored on a computer database as well. At this point, the committee members have yet to establish the criteria for determining the nature of the objects to be registered. It is obvious that all of the paintings and plaques should be recorded, but what about items such as the .new chandeliers in Old ' Chapel? Perhaps, as Ludwig noted, an object \has to have some age to it.\ The Professor also men- tioned that, \The planning or interior decorating of buildings or the preservatiop of the buildings of the College is not our responsibility . . . \ Since the committee's in- ception, the College has become a member ·of the Williamstown Regional Art Conservation Laboratory, a consortium of thirty colleges and museums. The Massachusetts-based Laboratory has restored several of Union's paintings already. If the need arises, the Laboratory can also provide assistance in determining the date of a painting's execution, as well as its artist. During the fall term of 1983, Ludwig began to extend his search for artifacts, pertaining to Union's history beyond the campus borders. In September, he spoke before a group of alumni in New York City ex- plaining the committee's purpose. He also requested the alumni to provide assistance in' his search. It has been 'hoped that some of our graduates might possess, or know the whereabouts of, objects which . would pertain to the College's history. others might have photographs which could be useful or might simply be able to provide memories of their years at Union which would be of importance to the comtnittee. In November, Ludw~g held a similar meeting with local alumni and friends of the College at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Morris. Ludwig has also noted that he plans to meet with the presidents of Union's frater- nities and sororities. Many of the Greek houses, especially the older fraternities, may contain objects of historical or artistic significance which could be included in the committee's records. Any objects found, whether in a Greek house, academic department, or in the possession of an alumnus or alumna, will only be recorded for future reference. \I am not really soliciting them to donate those things to the College,\ noted Ludwig. Quite often, people become accustomed to looking at small or unusual objects which might be of significance to the College; the 'Conservatorial Committee was in existence for one year before anyone realized that the Idol had never been recorded. If anyone knows the whereabouts of an object which might be of interest to the committee, he or she is invited to contact Professor Ludwig. ' High Tech Women This year, as in the past, Union College is proud to have an active chapter of the National Society of Women Engineers. SWE, as it is referred to, is headed by President Liesel Golden. The other officers are Vice President Wendy Foster, Treasurer Lyla Meader and Secretary Deni Rightmire, as well as the faculty advisor Professor Burke of the Mechanical Engineering Department. Membership is open to any female engineering student, or computer science major, yet meetings are open to . anyone on campqs. SWE has already been active this year. They have had a number of meetings with guest speakers who have spoken about a variety of topics. SWE was also given a tour of the General Electric Research Labs in Niskayuna. The tour included the Metallurgy lab, <' Your Ad Here Call6155 Very Large Scale Integration Center (VI..SI), Finite. Element Analysis programs, and the Synthetic Diamond Research and Foundation lab. Through its meetings and other activities, SWE hopes to better inform its members of the future outlook for women engineers, what to expect, what opportunities exist, and what engineering is all about. Another facet of SWE is scholarships. The national organization awards a number of scholarships yearly to women engineering .students, with varying ·criteria; for each. One Union sophomore, Civil Engineering student, Lisa Freed, recently had her SWE General Electric Scholarship renewed for its second year. Applications for scholarships such as those are easily ob- tained by writing SWE. The scholarships are based on~ academic performance, extra- curricular activities, and community service, as well as financial need. Anyone interested in SWE is encouraged to attend the next meeting which will be on ~ednesday, January 25 at 7 pm m Conference Room A. This meeting will consist of a panel of three women engineers from the Watervliet Arsenal. The panel includes one mechanical engineer, one electrical engineer and one chemical engineer, so come find out.what engineering is all about. !/) c:: :c ..0 0 a: c (]) > ~ (J) ~ 0 0 .c Q.

~' ... \ ' ·~ .. ,. ... .. • -. Page6 CONCOR/PIEt:+J.•;JS, .lt/naur,r 19. J9a.J i <llllltfllrbirnsis Foumlt-J 111 {!moo Collegt 1817- ------------ ----------- Split Decision Union College is uniq_ue among other colleges of ~'imilar size and academiC q1,1a,lity due to its trimester 3ystem. The present system has attracted many of us to Union des~ite its faults. Last year the Committee on Union Education {CUE) proposed that Union return to a semester system. This proposal was rejected, however, because it was decided that the benefits of our present system outweigh the costs of a semester system. This year, the CUE is again attempting to improve our academic calendar. They have proposed a plan which would cha~ge tpe present ten-week trimester schedule to a Spht Wmter Term Calendar (SWTC). The CUE presents the proposal in a positive light, listing sucfi benefits as a longer break between winter and spring terms and a school year which would both begin and end apprmdmately two weeks earlier. One of their main arguments for the change is the current a~ademic apathy which occurs during spring term. This problem is possibly an inherent part of the trimester system arid is not likely to change under the new calendar. Instead academic apathy may in- crease during the first three weeks of the split winter t.~rm as students feel that they will be able to catch up Juring Christmas vacation. In additio!l- time will be lost during the second part of the SWTC in order to review what was learnea weeks earlier. The CUE ~lso believes th~t bY. fini_shing ~chool two weeks earlier students wtll find 1t easier to get summer jobs. However, this will not greatly improve job opportunities as other schools . utilizing the semester system will still be finishing their term well before us. In addition, Union studenfs would lose the one advantage that we do have in the summer job market. Uncfer the present calendar system we are able to work through Labor Day which would not be possible if the proposed calendar changes were in effect. There are some advantages to the SWTC. However, there are .. also many problems which would arise due to the new system. Tne attitude of the supporters of the Rroposal seems to be that the problems will be 'worked out''. But before any change is made in our current calendar, there should be concrete solutions to all problems caused by the change. The major problem which the SWTGwould cause is that changes would have to be made in the terms abroad program. These programs have made Union trnique by allowing every student the opportunity to e~erience another culture. With the proposed changes some terms might have to be eliminated, or comtimed into. a two-term or a _year-long program. If this should occur, what would happen to all the engineers and premeds who in lhe _present program can afford to spend a term abroad but who would be unable to compromise that much time in the proposed program? The calendar as it stands does have its problems but are these rroblems so pressin~ as to compromise the benefits o the present system 1 If the ~roposal is accepted, it could come into effect as early as next year. We hope that the student body will make its opinions heard both for and against the proposed changes as the final decision Will have a profound effect on the Union community. ;.. .Y. (/) e IC co c:: 0 ., :>. .!J ~ 0 .c Cl. Tired of the Same Old Adult Faces? Do You Miss the Pitter-Patter of Little Feet? If so, the Union College Child Care Center wants you. If you have· a free morning or afternoon and love little children, the center is looking for volunteers to help out. If you are interested, please call· _in the morning, Carolyn Danek at 370·0573. LETTERS Let Your_ Voice-.Be ·Heard To the College Community: This past Monday, January 16. the Student Forum con- ducted a series of meEtings designed to solicit coii1I1lents concerning the proposed changes to the academic calendar. During the day a table in Carnegie was manned by members of the Forum prepared to answer questions and discuss possible alternative proposals. Comments were received at an afternoon meeting and .again at the regular eveiJing meeting of the Student Forum. Melissa Viglielmo and ~hari Midoneck, the two student member$ of the :Board (}f Trustees,. gave a report to the full Board at .its meeting in New York yesterday. Theil· com- ments were baS'ed on the opinions and concerns voiced by students on Monday. Because of the interest shown by students, the Trustees now have a better idea of what the student. com- munity is looking for in an academic calendar. Over the next few weeks, the Student Forum will continue to discuss possible calendar changes. ArtiCles will appear in the Concordiensis providing various positions and a poll will be taken of the entire student . body. A copy of the .split· sexnester proposal is on display . in Carnegie and a copy of the · nine-week semester proposal will also be available. I urge all students to read tbe :various. proposals •and discuss them with others. Members of • the Forum will be happy to listell to any comments and questions you may have. I am confident that a tborough discussiol'! of all concerns will help us to find a calendar that • • suits the needS of the entire • college corrununity. Thank you, WmTiturlow Student Forum President Basketball Marathon :a Success To the Editor: challenged an to basketball ···· games in the Alumni gym. The Congratulations to the FIJI marathon, held to benefit the brothers for sponsoring their Sunnyview Hospital, seemed to fantastically successful and be as much fun to play in as it enjoyable ''Basket ball was to watch. Everyone played Marathon\ last weekend. For 24 with a sportsmanlike, fair, and hours, the FIJI brothers not-too-serious-about-winning· as-much-as-having-fun way. This annual event was · definitely well done (once again! ) . My thanks to all who participated. Sincerely, Sean Griffin '87 · · Lounge Improvements Appreciated To the Editor: We commen.d Residence Life and the Administration on tlleir recent upgrading of the lounges in Fo~ and Davidson. The ad- .. dition of a color television with cable and agreeable couches in the lounges seem to have ad<led to the enjoyment of students living in the dorms. As past residents of these dorms we realize the need which has been partially fulfilled by these new additions. However, we also see a nEed to continue this Upgrading. Renovation would prove to r-------~------1 (Commentaries J I . · represent the : I of tile 1 • v1ews author the ancl ·not 1 . I Editorial( I Board of COW- : CORDIENSIS. : L ...... --------- ----- _. Attention Faculty: There will be a .. Faculty Cabaret: Thursday evening . Feb. 2. If you are interested in par- ticipating, please contact: Box 721 lisa Fier & Box 2199 Deborah Saltzman 6866 optimize social activities for all the residents. A more spacious, comfortable, and attractive lo11n.ge would serve as a good congregational center within the dorm. Such centers are not supplied in any other places on our campus .. This is particularly important during winter ternl for obvious reasons: Finally; a more aesthetic lounge area would present a better, lasting impression for prospective freshmen. Some have said with respect to the Fox and Davidson lounges that they did not want to refurbish them, feeling that students would vandalize the areas. In response to this, if one .. is given something to respect, then he-she shall respect it. Proof of tbis lies in looking at ' the well kept furniture and 1 television. We hope that Residence Life · and Admi.J1istration will con- tinue with their wsitive efforts enhancing dorm life for the students. Gregg Shack Steven I. Benson ·-Stacy Fassberg - • J d I :F d F. a p sl a !' €1 F a E d g a S' e: a; n r1 N dl s; €1 aJ h: n: w id 111 di aJ Cl D1 hi rE bl SJ H bl S< to til G t:h p, a1 111 T nE G. Tl pr

• CON COR ~I J:'.'VSJS, .Junuan · 19. J98.J : Fowukd al Unum Co/leg~ lfii':' ------------- ----------- Split Decision Union College is unique among other colleges of .~imilar size and academic quality due to its trimester :>ystem. The present system has attracted many of us l:o Union despite its faults. Last year the Committee ~.m Union Education (CUE) proposed that Union return to a semester system. This proposal was rejected, however, because it was decided that the benefits of our present system outweigh the costs of a semester system. This year, the CUE is again attempting to improve our academic calendar. They have proposed a plan which would change the present ten-week trimester schedule to a Split Winter Term Calendar (SWTC). The CUE presents the proposal in a positive light, listing such benefits as a longer break between winter and spring terms and a school year which would both begin and· end approximately two weeks earlier. One of their main arguments for the change is the current a~ademic apathy which occurs during spring term. This problem is possibly an inherent part of the trimester system arid is not likely to change under the new calendar. Instead academic apathy may in- crease during the first three weeks of the split winter tP,rm as students feel that they will be able to catch up Juring Christmas vacation. In additio!1 time will be lost during the second part of the SW1C in order to review what was learned weeks earlier. The CUE also believes that by finishing school two weeks earlier students will find it easier to get summer jobs. However, this will not greatly improve job opportunities as other schools utilizing the semester system will still be finishing their term well before us. In addition, Union students would lose the one advantage that we do have in the summer job market. Un<fer the pr~sent calendar system we are able to work through Labor Day which would not be possible if the proposed calendar changes were in effect. There are some advantages to the SWTC. However, there are··also many problems which would arise due to the new system. The attitude of the supporters of the Broposal seems to be that the problems will be 'worked out\. But before any change is made in our current calendar, there should be concrete solutions to all problems caused by the change. The major problem which the SWTC would cause is that changes would have to be made in the terms abroad program. These programs have made Union unique by allowing every student the opportunity t() experience another culture. With the proposed changes some terms might have to be eliminated, or combmed into. a two-term or a year-long program. If this should occur, what would happen to all the engineers and premeds who in the present program can afford to spend a term abroad out who would be unable to compromise that much time in the proposed program? The calendar as it stands does have its problems but are these rroblems so pressinl! as to compromise the benefits o the present system 1 If the J>roposal is accepted, it could come into effect as early as next year. We hope that the student body will make its opinions heard both for and against the proposed changes as the final decision wtll have a profoUild effect on the Union community. ::--.. .:.: Ul - 0 ..... rtl co c 0 ...., > .0 0 +- 0 .c a. Tired of the Same Old Adult Faces? Do You Miss the Pitter-Patter of Little Feet? If 50, the Union College Child Care Center wants you. If you have a free morning or afternoon and love I ittle children, the center is looking for volunteers to help out. If you are interested, please call .in the morning, Carolyn Danek at 370·0573. LETTERS Let Your Voice Be Heard To the College Community: This past Monday, January 16, the Student Forl:lffi con· ducted a series of meetings designed to solicit comments concerning the proposed cha,nges to the academic calendar. During the day a table in Carnegie was manned by members of the Forum prepared to answer questions and discuss possible altemative proposals. Comments were received at an afternoon meeting and again at the . regular evening meeting of the Student Forum. Melissa Viglielmo and Shari Mid'oneclt, the two student members of the Board of Trustees, gave a report to the full Board at its meeting in New York yesterday. Their com• ments were bas'ed on the opinions and concerns voiced by students on Monday. Because of the interest shown by students, the Trustees now have a better idea of what the student com- munity is looking for in an academic calendar. Over the next few weeks, the Student Forum will continue to discuss possible calendar changes. Articles will appear in the Concordlensis providing various positions and a poll will be taken of the entire student body. A copy of the split- semester proposal is on display in Carnegie and a copy of the · nine-week semester proposal will also be available. I urge all students to read the various proposals and discuss them with others. Members of the Forum wiU be happy to listen to any comments and questions you may have. I am confident that a thorough discussion of all concerns will help us to find a calendar that suits the needs of the entire college community. Thankyou,. Win Thurlow Student Forum President Basketball Marathon a Success To the Editor: challenged all to basketball as-much-as-having-fun way. This annual event was definitely well done (once again!). My thanks to all who participated. , .. - games in the Alumni gym. The Congratulations to the FIJI marathon, held to benefit the brothers for sponsoring their Sunnyview Hospital, seemed to fantastically successful and be as much fWI to play in as it enjoyable \Basketball was to watch. Everyone played Marathon\ last weekend. For 24 with a sportsmanlike, fair, and hours, the FIJI brothers not-too-serious-about-winning- Sincerely, Sean Griffin '87 Lounge Improvements Appreciated To the Editor: We commend Residence Life and the Administration on their recent upgrading of the lounges in Fox and Davidson. The ad- dition of a color television with cable and agreeable couches in the lounges seem to have added to the enjoyment of students living in the dorms. As past residents of these donns we realize the need which has been partially fulfilled by these new additions. However, we also see a need to continue this upgrading. Renovation would prove to r---------------1 Commentaries represent of • v1ews the the author the and ·not Editorial Board of CON- CORDIENSIS. L- .. ----------------• Attention Faculty: There will be a Faculty Cabaret Thursday evening Feb. 2. If you are interested in par- ticipating, please contact: Box 721 Lisa Fier & Box 2199 Deborah Saltzman 6866 optimize social activities for all the residents. A more spacious, comfortable, and attractive lounge would serve as a good congregational center within the dorm. Such centers are not supplied in any other places on our campus. This is particularly important during winter term for obvious reasons. Finally, a more aesthetic lounge area would present a better, lasting impression for prospective freshmen. Some have said with respect to the Fox and Davidson lounges that they did not want to refurbish them, feeling that students would vandalize the areas. In response to this, if one is given something to respect, then he-she shall respect it. Proof of this lies in looking at the well kept furniture and television. We hope that Residence Life and Administration will con- tinue with their positive efforts enhancing dorm life for the students. GreggSback Steven I. Bensom Stacy Fassberg .Edit()rs-in-Chief Julie Abean~. DomtaGet$Dn .. · ·News E:dit.or Gayle Rosenfeld Assuci::rte News Editor . . · Jan Baran. ... Featul;'es J!Bditors . .. . Dave Fitzgerald,'Fr~itldinSybneitter · Associate· Features Editor · . . . . . Lin4a Z$hnleutel' . Arts Editors. .· · Debbie Albert; ltareti.Lissauer . campus Page E'ditors . Karen Greaves\ J;illKat;fman $p(lrtall.!ditor . . . Dr w.JtutleY .. AdvertiSing 8ditors :Mary Ann ;· rdL,.~ ,·. . aer \ osen Layout Advisor Petet:Mohr,· Photo Editor · . . . Jon Ba~fsky Sports PhQto Editor$ ·Robert Tang; Bonnie Rosenberg Subscril)tlons Editor. Lori Kapliiln Political Cartoonist DaVidNeiblum · Visiting Contributor Norman Birnbach Staff Richard Biegen~ Tom Blackburn, Marcy :Surstiner, Sarah Calderoni, Tod Dimmick, Lisa Foley, Lou George, Jnsh Greene, Lynn Hano, Ted Kendris, Emily Lo()se, Dave Marin, Christine Marsching, Robin Molella, Judy Philipson, Linda Raffaele,,Wendy Richards, R()b Rissell~ Debbie Rose 1 Ellen Stipp, Peter Stegemann, Janice Thompson, Aaron Toffler,.BobVan Voris, Al White, Scott Wykoff PhotoStaff . Jim Campbell, Oavid Dworkin, Larry Kaminsky, Liz Karazim, Paul Klein, Pat Merritt, Steve Robbins, Patti Sacks, Larry Shapiro CONCORJJWNSlS is published every Thursday· by th~ student .body or Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna, Publications,. Inc., Bol{ 383, Sidney, New York 1383tl (607) 563~ 7151. Entered in,tne Schenectady Post Office as first class matter . .Subscription rate, $1& per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Office T~lepbone.: 371);.6155. CONCOR:OIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service . (CPS), and utilizes the College News Burea11{ CNB). ·· r I ' ' l I ' : ,;, I l I j ! '! ~~ ·~I \ )fJ i . l - ] dl D p dl H aJ pl st G N ec F G E de gJ aJ S1 e1 aJ m rt M dE Sl: e' al h~ m w id m di ar CO m he re bl S(J H< bl sc to' th Gl th Pc ar In 'I1 ne Gl Th pr.

. ' • . CONCORI)lh.l\'S/S January 19, 1984 Pagel Front Runne:r Fever By·RICHARD BlEGEN Last Sunday, the eight declared candidates for the Democratic Nomination for President shared the stage for a debate .in Hanover., New Hampshire. It was a three--hour affair designed to show the· pUblic where the candidates stood on the issues., from the Gender Gap to the proposed Nucleal,\ Freeze, from the ecqnomy to the Middle East. For most of tbe three hours Gary Hart, Jesse Jackson and Ernest Hollings seemed to be doing the best job . among . the group of fielding the questions and explaiili:ng their ideas. Suddenly, there was an angry exchange between John Glenn and, Walter Mondale, the two men that the press call \front runners.'' After Glenn and Mcmdale settled down, the debate finished, mostly in the same manner that it had begun. To myself; and to virtually everyone that I spoke to, it appearedthat Hart and Jackson had helped themselves the most. Both answered questions with aplomb; expressed their ideas clearly, criticized the mistakes of the other cang didates (and the mediators), and conducted themselves· in a controlled, if not presidential, manner. During the same three hours Glenn and Mondale remained mostly silent, gar- blmgtheir speech when they did spealt. It seemed that a host of Hart and Jackson stories would blitz the newsstands and TV screens come :Monday morning. Alas, I had given the media too much credit. On the cover of the New York Times there was Glenn and Mondale arguing~ On · the cover of the Washington Post: Glenn and Mondale arguing. The ·Philadelphia Inquirer: Glenn and Mondale. TV was no bett-er: all three networks concentrated on the Glenn-Mondale argument. There Were scattered words of praise for Jackson and Hart, but on the whole, the media treated th~ debate as a two-man show. For three years, the media has been engaged in con- siderable .soul-searching over the way it .covers the presidential election cycle. Media sources as varied as newspaper editQrials:, T.V news specials, documentaries, and magazines . have indulged · themselves with· empty promises of responsible coverage. And now we begin another season of the same old hoopla, the horse . race estimates and the \what if\ polis. ApparentlY the· only reason for the soul-searching was to increase sales to MephiStopheles. There is no reason for the -press. to magnify toe .brief verbal joustings .of Jolm Glenn and Walter Mondale. First of aU, what they said was pretty childish and devoid of serious · meaning. Glenn referred to Mondale's typical comments as ''gobbledygook.'' . Mondale countered by announciQ.g that Glenn was full of \baloney.\ I last heard an argument like that When I was six years old. Hart, Jackson and Hollings all made serious and intelligent criticisms of the \front run- ners\ without standing -up or resorting to words out of an Ogden Nash dictionary (Hart accused Mondale of making promises to too many groups, and Hollings reminded us that Glenn had · voted for \'Reaganomics). Furthermore, Mondale, and especially Glenn; had not done very much of note other than their shouting match. If I bad not seen the debate, but bad only read accounts of it, I would get the impression that Glenn and Mondale had dominated the event. This is ridiculously far from the truth. There bas to be some forr.O of proi>ortionality in political reporting, or else the reader is swayed by sheer volume of ink. If Mondale and CORRECTION: . Glenn get all the headlines, then they are the winners of the debate. Where are tlle headlines' for Hart, Jackson and Hollings, and even Reuben Askew (who displayed an excellent sense of humor, and some accurate views on waste in the military)? It is obvious now that the only reason for so much attention to be focused on the Mondale- Glenn outburst is that they are the \front .runners.\ This is another foolish notion, ·based on the belief that only these two - candidates are important. Why else would the newspapers care more_ for John Glenn saying \gobbledgook\ than Fritz Hollings calling .for a draft? Of course, the press has given as many front runners in the past. George Romney in 1968, Edmund Muskie in 1972, and Hubert Humphrey in 1976 are three recent . ex~ples of how well the media functions as the nation?-g oddsmakers. · In fact, Gary Hart is at approximately the same place in tenns of popularity that Jimmy Carter was at one month before the Iowa Caucus in 1976 (3 percent each), and better than George McGovern ( 1 percent) was at that point in 1972. Jesse Jackson is doing even better and is getting close to John Glenn, according to most polls. Cleafly, the race is not over yet. So who won the debate? For the estimated 2.5 million viewers, if they saw what I did, Hart and Jackson did the best, Hollings, Mondale. and Askew did okay, Glenn and Alan Cranston did badly; . and McGovern did the worst. But for those'· unfortunate enough to have missed the telecast and have to settle for the media's contortions, Mondale was the winner. with Glenn a strong second. Everyone else on the stage in New HampShire was a loser, but the real losers are the Amedcan public if they let the press decide who the real candidates are. The ''Letter to the Editor\ frorn Professor Rudy. Nydegger in th~ January 12th issue of the Concordiensis was intended to congratulate the Dutchmen Football Team and not the the Concordiensis staff. We apologize to Rudy Nydegger and anyone who may ·have misunderstood. CORRECTION~ ., The Williams College Mystic Seaport advertisement in the January 12th issue of the Concordlensis should have said: · A program representative will meet with students on Friday, January 20th at 1:30 p.m. in roomSlOO. For information call DeanPaniel's office, ext. 6232~ · Notice to all students on the Union College Food Service Meal Plan: . Students who have not picked up their Food Service com- plimentary. gift pac, must present their meal card to the Food Servi<::e Office before January 27; 1984, to receive the g.ift pac. On January 30, 1984, any remaining gift pac booklets will be on sale in the Food Service Office. The gift pac booklet contains passe·s and cash value coupons val.ued at $15.00, and Will be sold for $12.00 on a first come, first serve basis, while supply lasts. uor coo~~ ''M · MAit!.tfJ<rr ~Nse, 1\-US ·cLASS I~ tN-rflOt>OC.\rO~ t...06f C. II .YEARBOOK Attention all interested in working on the yearbook. Meet in the Garnet room (next to Concordy) 4th floor Carnegie, Thurs., 1/19 at 7 · p.m. COMMENTARIES Capital News By JACK ANDERSON and JOE SPEAR WASHINGTON~Sixteen months ago in California, two workers climbed into a large tank to cleanse it of the pesticide it had contained. Within a matter of hours, the men were dead: They turned bright green, their skin fell off, their bodies rotted. The substance they had been exposed to is called ethylene dibromide, or EDB. Govern- ment scientists have described it as one of the deadliest chemicals ever invented. You might think that the Environmental Protection Agency-which exists to serve the public that pays for it- would stop the use of EDB. The agency put some limits on its use last September. but it was too little., too late. And there is disturbing evidence that the EPA dragged its feet for years before taking even limited steps to ban its use. EDB is used by farmers in a number of ways. I( is injected into the soil to kill pests that attack the roots of fruit trees. It is used to fumigate grain, processed cereal foods and fruit headed for the supermarket. But EDB is regarded by scientists as one of the most potent cancer-causing agents known to man. In fact, the state of Florida banned the use of EDB in soil last year, and even went so far as to remove more 1 than 70 food products from l grocery store shelves because they contained tiny amounts of the chemical. Yet until last year, the EPA had done nothing about EDB. Finally, last September, the agency banned the use of the pesticide in soil, but still allowed the use of EDB on fruit and grain until September 1984. We've seen EPA documents that show the poisonous chemical exists in alarmingly high levels in citrus frUits, and the agency has known about it for years. In 1981, the Food and Drug Administration did some studies for the EPA that showed that 98 percent of the oranges, grapefruits and tangerines that were tested contained EDB. About 56 percent of the test samples showed less than 250 parts per billion of the chemical, but 10 percent of the fruit that was tested showed EDB levels of more than 3,000 parts per billion. Federal officials were ap- parently unalarmed over the high levels of the chemical in the tested fruits. In contrast, Florida officials removed food . from grocery shelves that showed only one part of EDB per billion. INTERNATIONAL PROB- LEM: American women who feel they are discriminated against may take some cold comfort in the knowledge that their problem is shared by women who work for the United Nations and other international organizations. \'Efforts made to date have pr()ven to be insufficient to brillg about .a perceptible im- pr()vement in opportunities for women,'' states a special report by a women's working group at the World Bank. Spelled out, this means that women employees of the World Bank don't share in the high salaries that the .men get. Most of the bank's women employees are clerks and secretaries, and the:y are paid accordingly. The United States pays most of the freight for these in- ternational organizations, and that means ies up to Congress to decide how much the U.S. government will contribute to their yearly budgets. The lawmakers, we are told, will take a look at the situation in the upcoming session. PLAYING WITH MONEY: Federal Reserve Board officials bristle at the suggestion that they tinker with the economy for political purposes. But we've seen a chart kept by government economists vvbich shows that the nation's money supply expands during election years. This encourages economic growth, which en- courages voters to support the pa11y in power. Sitting presidents can also pull economic strings by manipulating major ex- penditures. Politicians invariably deny they engage in such shenanigans, of course, but they can't explain how the gross national product always seems to increase in an election year- no matter which party is in power. DOUBLE STANDARD: Postmaster General William Bolger is promoting a double standard in his domain. Shortly before the holidays, he to14 his employees they should not accept Christmas presents from the people they serve. Aside from the c1mflict of interest question, he said, postal workers are amply com- pensated thrGugh their salaries. But Bolger isn't practicing what he preached. He recently ac- cepted a position on the board of directors of a major optical firm. The job will net him $12,000 annually plus $650 for each meeting he attends. Bolger already earns $80,000 a year as Postmaster General. SYNFUElS STANDARDS: When U.S. Synthetic Fuels Corp. director Harold Wilkins submitted an expense voucher last year for his date's dinner, the corporation's accountants balked and knocked $30.84 off the request. But they allowed him first-class travel instead of coach on his · flight to Washington, along with a night at one of the town's plushest hotels. Corporation officials paid the$336.82 bill for one night because, according to the claim form, ''other hotels were called; this was the only one available.\ Copyright, 1984, Uni1edFeature Syndicate, Inc. 'There will he a meeting on Monday, January 23 at 4:30p.m. in the Cabaret room for all people interested in being a 'tfaiterlwaitress for Cabaret. If you camwt attellli the meeting but are interested, please contact Debbie or Lisa (6866). Hope to see you soon.

CONCORDIENSJ5: Januar.r 19, 1984 Page 7 '· Front Runner Fever By RICHARD BlEGEN Last Sunday, the eight declared candidates for the Democratic Nomination f.or President snared the stage for a debate in Hanover, New Hampshire. It was a three--hour affair designed to show the public where the candidates stood on the issues, from the Gender Gap to the proposed Nuclear Freeze, from the ecqnomy to the Middle East. For most of the three hours Gary Hart, Jesse Jackson and Ernest Hollings seemed to be doing the best job among the group of fielding the questions and explaining their ideas. Suddenly, there was an angry exchange between John Glenn and Walter Mondale, the two men that the press call ''front runners.\ After Glenn and Mondale settled down, the debate finished, mostly in the same manner that it had begun. To myself, and to virtually everyone that I spoke to, it appeared that Hart and Jackson had helped themselves the most. Both answered questions with aplomb, expressed their ideas clearly, criticized the mistakes of the other can- didates (and the mediators), and conducted themselves in a controlled, if not presidential, manner. During the same three hours Glenn and Monda>le remained mostly silent, gar- bling their speech when they did speak. It seemed that a host of Hart and Jackson stories would blitz the newsstands and TV screens come Monday morning. Alas, I had given the media too much credit. On the cover of the New York Times there was Glenn and Mondale arguing. On the cover of the Washington Post: Glenn and Mondale arguing. The Philadelphia Inquirer: Glenn and Mondale. TV was no better: all three networks concentrated on the Glenn-Mondale argument. There were scattered words of praise for Jackson and Hart, CORRECTION: but on the whole, the media treated the debate as a two-man show. For three years, the media has been en,gaged in con- siderable soul-searching over the way it covers the presidential election cycle. Media sources as varied as newspaper editorials, 1V news specials, documentaries, and magazines . have indulged· themselves with empty promises of responsible coverage. And now we begin another season of the same old hoopla, the horse race estimates and the \what if\ polls. Apparently the only reason for the soul-searching was to increase sales to Mephistopheles. There is no reason for the press to magnify the brief verbal joustings of John Glenn and Walter Mondale. First of all, what they said was pretty childish and devoid of serious meaning. Glenn referred to Mondale's typical comments as \gobbledygook.\ Mondale countered by announcing that Glenn was full of \baloney.\ I last heard an arg1l1Ilent like that when I was six years old. Hart, Jackson and Hollings all made serious and intelligent criticisms of the ''front run- ners\ without standing up or resorting to words out of an Ogden Nash dictionary (Hart accused Mondale of making promises to too many groups, and Hollings reminded us that Glenn had voted for Reaganomics). Furthermore, Mondale, and especially Glenn, had not done very much of note other than their shouting match. If I had not seen the debate, but had only read accounts of it, I would get the impressi<>n that Glenn and Mondale had dominated the everit. This is ridiculously far from the truth. There has to be some form of proportionality in political reporting, or else the reader is swayed by sheer volume of ink. If Mondale and Glenn get all the headlines, then they are the winners of the debate. Where are the headlines · for Hart, Jackson and Hollings, and even Reuben Askew (who displayed an excellent sense of humor, and some accurate views on waste in the military)? It is obvious now that the only reason for so much attention to be focused on the Mondale- Glenn outburst is that they are the \front runners!' This is another foolish notion, based on the belief that only these two candidates are important. Why else would the nEwspapers care more. for John Glenn saying \gobbledgook\ than Fritz Hollings calling for a draft? Of course, the press has given as many front rUilners in the past. George Romney in 1968, Edmund Muskie in 1972, and Hubert Humphrey in 1976 are three recent examples of how well the media functi<>ns as the nation's oddsmakers. In fact, Gary Hart is at approximately the same place in terms of popularity that J,irnmy Carter was at one month before the Iowa Caucus in 1976 (3 percent each), and b€tter than George McGovern ( 1 percent) was at that point in 1972. Jesse Jackson is doing even better and is getting close to John Glenn, according to most polls. Clearly, the race is not over yet. So who won the debate? For the estimated 25 million viewers, if they saw what I did, Hart and Jackson did the best, Hollings, Mondale . and Askew did okay, Glenn and Alan Cranston did badly; and McGovern did the worst. But for those unfortunate enough to have missed the telecast and have to settle for the media's contortions, Mondale was the winner, with Glenn a strong second. Everyone else on the stage in New Hampshire was a loser, but the real losers are the American public if they let the press decide wh() the real candidates are. The \Letter to the Editor\ from Professor Rudy Nydegger in the January 12th issue of the Concordiensis was intended to congratulate the Dutchmen Football Team and not the the Concordiensis staff. We apologize to Rudy Nydegger and anyone who may have misunderstood. CORRECTION: The Williams College Mystic Seaport advertisement in the January 12th issue of the Concordiensis should have said: A program representative will meet with students on Friday, January 20tll at 1:30 p.m. inroomSlOO. For information call Dean Daniel's office, ext. 6232. Notice to all students on the Union College Food Service Meal Plan: Students who have not picked up their Food Service com- plimentary gift pac, must present their meal card to the Food Service Office before January 27, 1984, to receive the gift pac. On January 30, 1984, any remaining gift pac booklets will be on sale in the Food Service Office. The gift pac booklet contains passes and cash value coupons valued at $15.00, and will be sold for $12.00 on a first come, first serve basis, while sup pi y I asts. 11Df (DfJ~t; l 1 M MAf.:'!.ttJG SENSE, ·nus CLASS IS IN~Dt>OC.1*0~ l.-0'-' I C. . 11 .YEARBOOK Attention all interested in working on the yearbook. Meet in the Garnet room (next to Concordy) 4th floor Carnegie, Thurs., 1/19 at 7 p.m. COMMENTARIES Capital News By JACK ANDERSON and JOE SPEAR WASHINGTON-Sixteen months ago in California, two workers climbed into a large tank to cleanse it of the pesticide it had contained. Within a matter of heurs, the men were dead: They turned bright green, their skin fell off, their bodies rotted. The substance they had been exposed to is called ethylene dibromide, or EDB. Govern- ment scientists have described it as one of the deadliest chemicals ever invented. You might think that the Environmental Protection Agency-which exists to serve the public that pays for it- would stop the use of EDB. The agency put some limits on its use last September, but it was t<>o little, too late. And there is disturbing evidence that the EPA dragged its feet for years before taking even limited steps t<> ban its use. EDB is used by farmers in a number of ways. It is injected into the soil to kill pests that attack the roots of fruit trees. It is used to fumigate grain, processed cereal foods and fruit headed for the supermarket. But EDB is regarded by scientists as one of the most potent cancer-causing agents known to man. In fact, the state of Florida banned the use of EDB in soil last year, and even went so far as to remove more than 70 food products from grocery store shelves because they contained tiny amounts of the chemical. Yet until last year, the EPA had done nothing about EDB. Finally, last September, the agency banned the use of the pesticide in soil, but still allowed the use of EDB on fruit and grain until September 1984. We've seen EPA documents that show the poisonous chemical exists in alarmingly b.igh levels in citrus fruits, and the agency has known about it for years. In 1981, the Food and Drug Administration did some studies for the EPA that showed that 98 percent of the oranges, grapefruits and tangerines that were tested contained EDB. About 56 percent of the test samples showed less than 250 parts per billion of the chemical, but 10 percent of the fruit that was tested showed EDB levels of more than 3,000 parts per billion. Federal officials were ap- parently unalarmed over the high levels of the chemical in the tested fruits. In contrast, Florida officials removed food from grocery shelves that showed only one part of EDB per billion. INTERNATIONAL PROB- LEM: American women who feel they are discriminated against may take some cold comfort in the knowledge that their problem is shared by women who work for the United Nations and other international organizations. \Efforts made to date have proven to be insufficient to bring about a perceptible im- provement in opportunities for women,\ states a special r-eport by a women's working group at the World Bank. Spelled out, this means that women employees of the World Bank den't share in the high salaries that the men get. Most of the bank's women employees are clerks and secretaries, and they are paid accordlingly. The United States pays most of the freight for these in- ternational organizations, and that means it's up t<> Congress to decide how much the U.S. government will contribute to their yearly budgets. The lawmakers, we are told, will take a look at the situation in the upcoming session. PLAYING WITH MONEY: Federal Reserve Board officials bristle at the suggesti<>n that they tinker with the economy for political purposes. But we've seen a chart kept by government economists which shows that the nation's money supply expands during election years. This encourages economic growth, which en- courages voters to support the party in power. Sitting presidents can also pull economic strings by manipulating major ex- penditures. Politicians invariably deny they engage in such shenanigans, of course, but they can't explain how the gross national product always seems to increase in an election year- no matter which party is in power. DOUBLE STANDARD: Postmaster General William Bolger is promoting a double standard in his domain. Shortly before the holidays, he told his employees they should not accept Christmas presents from the people they serve. Aside from the conflict of interest question, he said, postal workers are amply com- pensated through their salaries. But Bolger isn't practicing what he preached. He recently ac- cepted a position on the board of directors of a major optical firm. The job will net him $12,000 annually plus $650 for each meeting he attends. Bolger already earns $80,000 a year as Postmaster General. SYNFUELS STANDARDS: When U.S. Synthetic Fuels Corp. director Harold Wilkins submitted an expense voucher last year for his date's dinner, the corporation's accountants balked and knocked $30.84 off the request. But they allowed him first-class travel instead of coach on his flight to Washington, along with a night at one of the town's plushest hotels. Corporation officials paid the $336.82 bill for one night because, according to the claim form, \other hotels were called; this was the only one available.\ Copyright, 1984, United Feature Syndicate, Inc. ' • \ ' ' I :\ ' ' •' I: • :, ~ ': • \: • • ' ' •,' •: '-' ' ':';• ' ' ' ' •' •: • There will be a meeting on Monday, Janua1:r 23 at 4:30p.m. in the Cabaret room for all peopl.<! interested in being a waiter/waitress .fm· Cabaret. If you cannot attend the meeting hut are interested, plea.f!e contact Debbie or Lisa (6866). Hope to see you soon.

Page8 CONCORIHEN.WS,_ Junilurr 19. 19/I.J THE ARTS Ella Hits Proctors 's ByTODDIMMICK Ella Fitzgerald performed at Proctor's on Saturday night. I really didn't know much about her, so I didn't expect a lot. Perhaps because I didn't Imow much about her. One might say she started from scratch; and made another fan to add to her millions. I read enoqgh data about Ella r as she likes to be called) to make me feel as though I was seeing some sort of minor Goddess. l won't go into detail, the fact that she is on her way to her twelfth G canuny speaks for itself. Proctor's practically sold out, didn't have much to complain about either. Ella is a unique singer. With what has been described as a \freakish talent,\ she sings • J· rough an amazing repertoire, from the classic Duke Ellington to Stevie Wonder. She adds her own ·style ·and skill and the songs become more than just reproductions, they become her own. Among the songs she. sang on Saturday were \Satin Doll\ \Mac The Knife'·', and ''Everything Is Going to be All Right\. Some were soft love songs that drew emotions. Others were swinging jazzy songs that made you want to dance. Ella used \scat\ quite a bit, which was amusing and entertaining. Her voice would range from one end of the scale to another, seemingly ignoring the melody yet at the same time part of it. I kept finding myself amazed with her voice. She can do things nobody else can with intonation. The eager audience drowned out her words at the end with applause. Two stan- ding ovations brought her out for two encores. Over all, it was a very moving and exciting performance. I would rather not rave about her perfortnance, though. I want to rave about,. her. I watched the audience prac- tically overwhelm her with applause and what did she do? She looked positively em- barrassed! Here she is, with more fame than most other people on any kind of recording label, looking uncomfortable. It is refreshing to see such modesty. After the per- formance I had the ·fortune to meet her. I asked her how she had so much energy. Ella replied that she was kept young by her perfonriances and her career. She reminded me of a c_,hild, overwhelmed and excited about all the opportunity she has. Ella shows this excitement on stage as well, where she plays with melodies and songs. She has so much fun in the spotlight that we couldn't help paving fun ourselves. Backed up by the Paul Smith Trio, consisting of Paul Smith on piano, bassist Keeter Betts and drwnm:er Bobby Durham, Ella Fitzgerald led a classic concert on Saturday. Ther-e were a number ·of Union students there, I am sure they will · agree that Ella is· something special. C.ofillllunity Arts Calendar~ Theatre ~- ~· January 19-22: Translations, Market · Theatre .... Albany. Thurs-sat. at8p.m., 462-1534 January 27 & 28: Joseph ami the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat, Procter's Theatre. January 27 at 3 p.:m. andJanuary28 at 2 p.m. and 8p.m. 382·1083 . . . Music IJ1r~ January 20 & 21: Albany Symphony Orchestra, Troy Savings Bank Music Hall. 8:30p.m. 465-4755 . .January 21 at Palace Theatre, Schenectady 8·: 30p.m. 4654755. January 21: Pete Seeger with Ruth Pelham, Philip Schuyler Hall, Albany. 8:00p.m. 462-8714:. January 22: The Wizard of Oz, Albany P11blic Library, 1 : ~0 p.m. 449-3380. Folk Is Back Noti·ce ... Studio Art~· Majors By Arts Staff La Tuna, a group of folk singers from Spain, will per- form at Union College Tuesday, Jan. 24, at 8 p.m. in Stage 2 of Carnegie Hall. Sponsored by the Minerva Committee, the per- formance is free and open to the public. Presented by the Spanish Heritage Association,· La Tuna consists of about seven men who perform popular Spanish music. The group's origins can be traced to the first univer- sities founded in Spain in the 12th centuryl when students- then all male-gathered to sing, make merry, and flirt with the town's women. By the 16th century, the Tunos as they were then called were an integral part of Spanish university life; the literature of that period is full . of incidents of their per- formances and pranks. La Tuna comprises a lute, bandurria or mandolin, a requinto or tenor guitar and a regUlar Spanish guitar. Then comes the tambourine, usually - played by the clown of the group. The ensemble's soloist attempts to add a serious note. Arts Club General Meeting Thursday January 19th 9:30p.m. 4th fl. Lounge Carnegie To be discussed: L Kats·n·Jammers jazz performance and jam. session/workshop 2. Spring Arts Club per- formance--all musicia.ns, actors, performers of al.l kinds welcome 3, Trips (some as low as $2.50 per person) The Crucible • Translations Crimes of the Heart Agnes of God Big Band Show Master Harold and The Boys Gemini Jazz Cafe and MORE Each member of the group wears black velvet doublets, short and puffy breeches, black hose and buckled shoes. A black cape which was part of the Spanish academic gown completes the outfit and is decorated with the ribbons ·of female admirers. Origins of the name LaTuna are unclear, but it could date from the Latin root \tonus\meaning tune. Also, the Spanish word \tuno\.,..someone fUll of mischief-is definitely related to the disposition of. the group's members. La Tuna will be an enjoyable evening. Let's all leave a s~ace on our calendar to attend this shQw. By Staff Union seniors who major in studio arts are required . to prepare an exhibition for graduation. Through the winter term, Arelis Santiago, senior major in studio arts, . Will be exhibiting drawings and photographs from her senior project in the Kruesi Galleries, Arts Building. A second exhibition on view in the Kruesi Galleries during the -winter term is student work drawn from the pj>pular Three Dimensional Design classes offered· by Professor Alex Markhoff. ProfessDr Markhoff has selected outstanding examples of projects from class Music to Drink ~Y By DEBBIE ALBERT KAREN LISSAUER Although many students here at Union are still apprehensive about being involved in school activities, Cabaret on January 12 was quite successful. One of the unique things about the Cabaret was, that two of the main performers were fresh· men. Hopefully, this will en· courage other freshmen as well as upperclassmen to perform at a Cabaret. The freshmen were Wendy Richards and Charlene Schultz. The acts also included singing by Bob Hart· man, and well-known juggler, Luke Fannon. · The Acts began with Fresh· man singer Wendy Richards. . She sang four songs and did a very nice job. Charlene SchUltz another freshman also sang four songs, and the two acts were enjoyable. The two girls then ended with the duet ''The Rose.\ Bob Hartman continued the singiilg with a few Beatie classics as well as two ·of his own originals. He wrote a song called \Safety Drink,\ which was sung to the tune of Safety Dance. He also wrote a song about the Skellar, entitled ''The Skellar Song.\ 'Luke Fannon M.C.ed the show with. jokes and . his famous juggling act, which was, as usual, very g<lod. All in all, the show was very en- joyable, and it was nice to see the Cabaret room crowded. The students who organize the Cabaret, as well as those who · perform, put a lot of time and effort into making these Cabarets successful. 'I'herefore, let's all try to get more involved and support the Union College Cabar.et. work completed during the past year. The selection reflect solUtions to apparently simple problems of joining, supporting, constructing and organizing elements in space using limited materials, such as stones, sticks, string,· wire and tape. Also 'on vieW are photographs from the portfalio of Elliott Erwitt, · donated to Union College by Edward A. Schapiro, Union class of 1962. Elliott Erwitt worked as a staff photographer under Roy E. Stryker for Standard Oil 'Company of New. Jersey and Pittsburgh. Photo Library and has been a member of Magnum Photos, New York .and Paris, since 1953. He was president of Magnum, New York in 1966. His work i.s incluqed in the collectio.ns of Museum ·Of Modern Art, New ·York; Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.; Art Institute of Chicago; New Orleans Museum of Art; Eibliotheque Nattonal, Paris. · The Three-Dimensional· Design Exhibition, senior exhibit by Arelis Santiago and photography portfolio of Elliott Erwitt will he on view through March 8. An opening reception will be held in the Kruesi Galleries on Wednesday, February 1,1984 from 4:00-6:00 PM. The College coliliilunity .is cordially invited to attend. FRIDAY, J\NUARV 20-8 P .oM~ PROCTOR'S T'HEATRE Sc;henec~ady students $9 - General Admission $11 .. 50 and community BOX Off1ces , - 1 in 191 liv stl at rel ] lel pr' Th • UIJ re~ Ur E:!i l!Y Ar sh~ thE kn po: ch1 ex' inl for in I foe SUJ thE Yo ( stu ea1 me a'b Pr De Ed · Pr Uri Ne Of: Ed ]

CONCORDIENSJS, Jonual')' /9, /984. Page 9 TERMS ABROAD Opportunities exist for study in Japan during the fall term of 1984.85. The program includes living with a Japanese. family, studying Japanese, and taking at least three additional courses related to East Asia. If you a11e interested in · learning more about the program, please see Professor Thurston, SS213b. .Junior year at a German University-Applications will be received until January 31 for Union's G~rman University Exchange Program sponsored py the Federation of GermanG American clubs. Candidates should be sophomores well on their way to a good working knowledge of Getman. One, or possibly two students will be chosen to participate in the exchange program. For more information and application forms, contact Professor Warde in HU 211. . Modern Israel will be the focus of a special academic summer program sponsored by the State University of New York. Only a limited number of students can he accepted, and early application is recom- mended~ For specific details about the 1984 Academic Program . in Israel, write Department of International Education, SUNY Summer · Program in . .Israel, State University College, Oneonta, New York 13820, or telephone Office of International Education, 607-431-3369. A,pplications are now . being a(,!cepted for all Union Terms Abroad taking place in. the academic year 1984-85, Terms to be offered are as follows: in the Fall Term, ijennes, France; Florence, Italy and Bath, England. Juniors and seniors may also apply for the Union- York Exchange in which five students are selected. to attend classes at the College of Ripon~ St. John in York while five of the York students .spend the· Fall Term at Unlon. Winter Terms will take place in Athens, Greece, on a kibbutz in Israel, and in Central America .. Th~ spring term will take place in Schwaebisch-H~ll, Germany. A comprehensive meeting in which all the terms for next year are described in detail will be held in February. Applications and information on the terms can be obtained from Joan Freeman in the Terms Abroad office, Monday, Tuesday; and 'Thursday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. SCHOLARSHIPS Applications for the 1984-85 Pennsylvania State Grants for Pennsylvania residents are now available in the Fi.riancial Aid Office. Phi Chi Theta Foundation is offering $1,000 grants for 1984-85 to women pursuing Bachelor's and Master's programs in business and-or economics. The application deadline ls May 1. Further information can be obtained at the Financial Aid Office. .. ·DUTCH HOLLOW PUB .~ Hours of Operation Kitchen Breakfast ...... 7:30a.m.-ll:OOa.m. Lunch ......... 11:30a.m.-1:30p.m .. Dinner ......... 5:00 p.m.-7:00p.m. Bar Monday and Wednesday .... 4:30-7:00 Tuesda.y .....................• 4:30-? Thursday:.- ........•......... 4:30·? F r ida y . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . 4 : 30-? Saturday .................... 9:00-? Saturda) Dutchman·~ Ni~ht · Rt-st•natinn-. nnl\ Seatings 5 p.m .• 6 p.m., 7 p.m. · Warchj(Jro.ur Week/.1' Dai(r ·.~'pedal\· in Food Sen•ice Weekl.r Forecu.\·t. Full mmu a••uiluhll!./tJr /)inner · Freezin'? War.n Up At PHI BELT'S Taco-N-Teoulla Beer • Punch • Shots • 'Soda Tacos: 50~ ea. or 3 for $1! Hot Sauce & Hot Tunes Fri., Jan. 27, 9:30-? CAMPUS NEWS The Jewish Foundation for Education of Women is a non- sectarian organization that offers need-based grants and interest-free loans. Information and applications for 1984-85 can be obtained by writing to the Foundation at 120 West 57 Street, New York·, N.Y. 10019, by January 31, 1984. The American Society of Naval Engineers is offering non-need-based awards to undergraduate students in a program of study related to naval engineering {including Electrical Engineering). Applications,. which are due by February 15., are available in the Financial Aid Office. Delta Delta Delta is con- duc~~g .. a scholarship com- petdlort for undergraduate women for 1984,.85. Applicants are considered on the basis of academic record, ex- trac.urricular activities and co~unity service, promise of service to their chosen field and financial need: Applications, which must be submitted prior to March 15, are available in the Financial Aid Office, Dean's Office and from the Tri Delta se'rvice P,rojects Chairman on this campus. The Society of Exploration Geophysicists Education Foundation is offering scholarships to undergraduate and graduate students in a college course directed toward the study of geophysics. The award is based primarily on academic competence, secondarily on financial need. For an application, which is due by I\i~rch l, write to the Foundation at P.O. Box 3098; Tulsa, Oklahoma 74101. The Delta Gamma Foun- dation offers ioans and scholarships to its un- dergraduate ·and graduate student sisters and children of sisters. For more information, write to: Delta Gamma Executive Offices; c-o Grants and Loans Chairman; 3250 ·Riverside Dr.; Columbus, Ohio 43221. The Business and Professional Women's Organization offers grants to both undergraduate and graduate women. For more information and an application, write to the Organization at 2012 Massachusetts Avenue, NW; Washington, D.C. 20036. The National . Society ()f Professional Engineers offers scholarships to undergradllate engineering students with at • least a 3.6 G.P.A. Applications for 1984--85, which are due February 1, are available in the Financial Aid Office. The Albany Area Branch of the English Speaking Union is offering a $1,000 scholarship to nineteen-year-olds for study or personal development in an English Speaking Country during 1984. · Copies of the brochare describing the scholarship m.ay be obtained by calling Edgar Tompkins, President of the Albany Area Branch at the Albany Public Library 449-338() or any member of the scholarship committee which. is co-chaired by Dr. .Raym()nd Vickers and Jerome Flax. FINANCIAL AID Financial Aid applic~ns are now available for 1934-85. Please pick up yours at financial aid office in Becker Hall. (Remember you must reapply every. year.) FAF's. must be mailed by March 1 so that all forms are received by the April 15 deadline. CLUB NEWS Big Brothers-Big Sisters of Schenectady County--The Sunday Group program started on January 15 and will run through Sunday, March 4. The program starts at 1:30 p.m. in Carnegie Hall. All volilnteers are asked to arrive a little early so they can greet the children when they arrive. Big Sister•Little Sister Crafts Activity-Are you looking for an activity to do with your Little Sister? If so, the Schenectady Girls Club is sponsoring a Thursday, Evening Craft Project on February 9, from 6: 30-8: 30 p.m. Big and Little Sisters are invited to par- ticipate. Newman Club Meeting Monday January 23, 4:30 p.Dl. Carnegie 4th floor Louilge. Bible Study on Gospel of Matthew, Thursday, January 26, 4:00p.m. Campus Ministry Office. Over-Night Retreat-January 20-21 ·at St. Joseph's Spiritual Life Center. Theme of the retreat will be Faith Journeys and our Relationships: to God, ourself and others. Retreat will begin· after dinner Friday and end before dinner on Saturday. Cost is $10. The Newman Club will absorb the balance of $12 for each participant. Reser- vations may be made in the Campus Ministry office. Campus Ministry's Wed- nesday Lecture Series-January 25th, 8:00 p.m. Carnegie 4th floor Lounge. Rev. Jim Murphy, Diocese of Albany, Professors Andrew Burke and J. Richard Shanebrook, Mechanical Engineering Department, Union College and members of Union Presbyterian Church Peace Group will discuss \The Bishops Peace Pastoral.\ Saturday, January 28th at 8:00 p.m.-Theatre Party to Proctor's to see \Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat.\ Group tickets available at $10. Call Campus Ministry Office 370-6087. Campus Ministry will sponsor an ecumenical Prayer Service for \Christian Unity\ Monday, January 23, 4:30 p.m. Carnegie 4th floor lounge. Folk Group that is forming for 7:30 Sunday Liturgies will meet Friday 4-5 in the Campus Ministry Office. SPEAKERS Dr. Ivar Giaever, biophysicist and Nobel Prize winner, will speak on \Genetic Engineering and Physics\ at the Freedom Forum, January 23rd, Monday, 8 p.m. at the Unionl College Memorial Chapel. Tickets for the , lecture are available at the door; single admissions $5, and single ad- missions for students and the elderly $3. A question and an· swer period will follow the talk. Daniel R. Conlon, President, Instruments for Research and Industry will be speaking on Unique Aspects of Managing the Smaller Manufacturing Companies on January 19, 1984- 3:45 p.m. in Room 312, Bailey Hall, Union College. \The Only .REAL. Videotech'' ••••••••••••••••• : lt=A\~lrA\~IIIES: ••••••••••••••••••• In coniunction with Union Social Committee PRESENTS A VALENTINESPARTY --FREE BUSES (staggered rides) .......... 50¢ DRAFTS & 75¢ VALENTINES SCREWDRIVERS -FREE DRINK WITH INVITATION -DOOR PRIZES AND UNION ON VIDEO $3.00 admission Feb. 7th • 9:00 ... close Rte. 155 south ofState St. ' .

Page 10 CONCOR/HEN.S'I.S: January /9, /98./ : CAMPUS NEWS SPEAKERS Evangelist School (across from Union) at 2:30p.m. until 4:30 or 5 ~·oo p.m. Please contact Mary ·Ellen Mangold after 5 p.m. or weekends at 374-6130. PERSONALS: JAN: Let me know if you need a helping \HAND\! -D a call and let me know. the iguana lover · Union's Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa will host Arnold Moss as its 1983-84 Visiting Scholar. Dr. Moss, actor, director, writer, producer, has been starred in a score of plays by leading con- temporary playwrights. Maybe someday a cham- -----------· pagne shower. Love Forever, CAREER JNFQ Friend. Forever, The Pacifier LINDA: Come down and talk, I've almost forgotten what you_ look like'! -D ROB:- I'm so happy that you like your pink bordello, and especially happy about your present roommate situation--1:10 more DUMBO! -Love ya, D. Flakey, I have not forgotte11 my unplanned shower. You will be maimed severely in the future~ There will be two public appearances: Thursday, January 26, 8:00 p.m. in Nott Memorial. He. will speak on \Color me Shakespeare\ an evening .of readings. Also on Friday, January 27, 3:00 p.m., Music Room, Schaffer Ubrary. He will speak on \Words words, words\--and all of them crossed\. An in- troduction to the technique of constructing crossword puzzles. HELP WANTED Student Wanted-Corrunission Sales-Imprinted sportswear to clubs, frats, etc. Please contact- -Paul Silverstein at 462~3838. Make your own hours. Area Plastics manufacturer is seeking a part-time engineering assistant for work in product development. You must have your own tran- sportation and be available up to 20 flexible hours a week between 8:00 A.M. and 5:00 P.M. Engineering student preferred. Live-in or sleep in or show up by 3:45a.m. to sit for 2 children 3 yrs. and 21 months old. May leave at 7: 45 .(l.m. or stay until 1:30 p.m. Negotiable-Room & board. Please contact 371-2162 Clifton Park area. Babysitter for 8 year old boy. Five days a week-afternoons. Pick him up from St. John the The Forei!gn & Domestic Teachers Organization needs teacher applicants in all fields from Kindergarten through ;College to fill over si:x hundred teaching vacancies both at home and abroad. Should you wish additional information a bout our organization, you may write the Portland Oregon Better Business Bureau or the National Teachers' Placement A g.e n c y ~ UN IV E RS A L TEACHERS, Box '5231, Por· tland, Oregon 97208. ------------------ CLASSIFIEDS LASER BLAST-your party with a laser-light snow 'from LIGHTFORM call 346~3862 or 38241141 for details. 1'he film committee presents \Gandhi\ January 20-22, Friday, Saturday, Sunday·in SS · 016 at 6 and 9:30 p~m. AdmiSsion is $1. \Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory\ on Tuesday, January 24 at 7;- 9 & 11 p.m .. in SS 016. Admission is $1. Typing done for stadents or pr()fessors. Please contact 377- 421~ .. Scotia area. FOR SALE: Great «lar--1974 Buick Apollo, 70,000 miles. $800 negotiable, Blaupunkt am-fm cassette. Call Roberta 374-8769. PROGRAM IN AMERICAN MARITIME STUDIES FALLSEMESTER 1984 or SPRING SEMESTER 1985 Accreditedb:.y WILLIAMS COLLEGE Taught at MUSICSEAPORTMUSEUM ESPECIALLY FOR STUDENl~ INTERESTED·IN AMERICANSTUDIES BIOLOGY LITERATURE ECOLOGY HISTORY ~. PUBLIC PO!:.ICY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENTALSTUDIES OCEANOGRAPHY The Program Offers qualified undergradua~s the opportuni~y t? !oc'!S one semester of their studies on our relat!ombip to the sea. While livl!lg m cooperative houses at America's laading: maritime museum, students · take four Williams-accredited courses in history, .Jiteratwe, oceanography or marine ecologr and marin~ policy. Tl_le Prog~arn_ in· eludes practical instruction in boathandlin~, . celestial I1l!VIgati.on, boatbUilding, and shipyard restoration, along With a twelve-day offsllcre reserarch trip on board the schooner R/V Westward, A program representative will meet with shtdents on Fri .• Jan. 20 at 1:30 p.m. in the Science and EngineeringBldg., Rm. SlOO, For in- formation call Dean Daniel's office, ext. 6232, or write: Director, Williams-Mystic Program, Mystic Seaport Museum, Inc., Mystic, Conn. 06355. . Kathy S-Oh my! We can't think about our life now; there's only 617 hours left!! Little Jim at D. U.: \I ain't 'got no CHAMPAGNE!\ Debbie~There's nothing I like more than a splash of :beer behind my ears (or on my coat) and then 1:1 walk in the cold night air with a friend at 2:00 a.m. · ~ Ann Tours of the new LeGeno collection are now being of- fered. All tours are given by Le Geno himself! Contact Julie Breslow or Amy Stake at 6448 for more information. Vive Le Geno! Joyce--Betty's with me. --N, Flakey, Hope you feel better . soon. We love you honey. L & D J.C.-1 changed my mind, but this isn't the original. The first one had to do with why I called you purple, but you'll never know. I'll always remember what you said. BILLY! I miss your phone calls, they made me feel better too! Please call again soon! Whenever you need me, I'll be here for you. I promise~--you've got my number. ANDY:How's the old \no- eared\ snake? -Mrs. L To you: Yes you!!! You know I love you very very very much! ! l You know who you are, don!t you?! l! Love you know who! (to lisa b. from me-\you know who i am, right?) To my roommate: you look like you have jaundice. Actually, you look like ymi'have jaundice! LOVE, somebody else's n-!!! M: Please don't be mad at me for waking you up. I still owe you a backrub--care to collect? -D Bri- I really }}ope your ass stays in· Schenectahole l ! Good Luck. Big D ; Fire, You really are a human vacuwn H! Do you know how much I love you??? THIS MUCH!!! - Scrod: Who are you?\ Give me HH D . TO BILLY,.21, From Webster House: GET A REAL SEX LIFEJ! ! ! !! ! Joyce-Maybe we should fix Betty up with ''B\ -Marce Joyce-Where is Betty? Marce r· ·~ RUPSIS TAVERN Corner Ca.rrie & Hattie St. (1 block north of Nott St. Entrance to Union College) Union College - Monday Nites n Genny Cream U drafts 25¢ ~ pi. t.che.rs. $1.5.0 our 11 famous\ ~ . chili dogs- soc pi us free pool LIK=='«~< Wednesday Nites Bud & Miller Lite .n ~ itcflers $2.00 ~- 50< off a'll . n mixed drinks-. ~~ .plus free sna!=kS J . >f'< .,.. - >lh •' . . . DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DI\YTONA DAYTONA DAYTCNA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA ~YTONA ~YTONA DAYTONA' • *** ********* ** **** ** ********** *******: DAYTO.NA DAYTONA ! When Union College : DAYTONA * . * ~ DAYTONA ! Of * DAYTO~..;,. DAYTONA : Thinks : DAYTONA DAYTOr~ ! DAXTGNA BEACH, FLORIDA : DAYTONA DAYTONA ! They Think Of : DAYl'ONA DAYTONA ! . : DAYTONA DAYTONA ! CRAWFORD 'I'OURP OF A:{;BANY: DAYTONA DAYTONA * * DAYTONA DAYT ONA! s Year Will Be Our :DAYTONA . . · * Best Spring Break Ever!* DAYTONA ! . : DAYTONA DAYTONA ! . 1 .... , - March 16-2,5, 1934 - : DAYTONA D :-..YTON' •* 1 ''~ \ Th o· - co~·PLETE ! DAYTONA D~YTON~ * ··.,; \' eFlnJ.~d ~· · · t-:\ 1 1 1 :·DAYTONA ! or1 a aca 10n ••• ! DAYTONA ~1iig~1: 0AWFORD TOURS :DAYTONA DAYTONA ! Of ALBANY NEW YORK • DAYTONA D YTONA * · ' · * DAYTONA A · • : Chartered Motorcoach Transportat~on,: DAYTONA ~!yy:~! **• Deluxe Accommodatioif,S On The Beach : DAYTONA at The Texan, ·:P.REE Parties, Beer, D AYTONA * : DAYTONA • Surprises &: Much More.! DAYTONA * : DAYTONA DAYTONA : NO Hidden Additional Costs!!! * DAYTONA DAY'l'ONA: i Contact Chris Rouse in West College , i :~:: DAYTONA • Room 211; Box 1013; at 370-6910 for : DAYTONA DAYTONA : Complete Details~ Or Call ! DAYTONA DAYTO~ : Crawford Tours of Albany at 869-7850! DAYTONA DAYTONA * . * DAYTONA * Deposit Deadline-January 28, 1984! ! DAYTONA DAYTONA :************************************** DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAY'l'ONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA l>Al.TONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAY'.roNA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DA~TONA DAY~NA DAYTONA DAY'.roNA DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA DA'Y'!'ONA DAYTONA DAY1'0NA DAYTONA DAYTOrlA DAYTONA DAYTONA DA'YTONA .. \ • - 1 1 t f ( ] ~ ] , I r s J I r I s t: s s tl s 0 a I b r fl I ]'I p a t~ ~ a r 'I 'I •. d t• , r• w cl ~ b s~ ~ si 4! E p n B tl (' h a tl c

,.· \ CONCORDIEN$/S, January 19, 1984 Page 11 Sp.orts Tal'k With SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff Road to Sarajevo -Ex. JV. Hockey goalie Anthony (Ike) Iacoviello ba·s been following the fortunes of the U.s. Olympic Hockey Team closely as their tr8,1ning sessions wind down prior to the Olympics. Ike is a grad11ate of Boston's Belmont Hill School and three year member of the Hillies powerful hockey team. While at Belmont Hill lke played on the same squad with Team USA forwards Scott Fusco, David A. Jensen and · defenseman Mark Fusco. Scott is on a leave from Harvard' and is currentlyTeam USA~ssecond line center. Jensen played with Ike at Belmont Hill three years ago and was the Hartford Whalers' first round ch()ice in the '83 NHL draft. Scott's older brother Mark graduated from Harvard in 1983 and was honored as last year's out- standing collegiate hockey player, winning the prestigious Hobey Baker Award.· Get Well Soon Dept. • Best wishes for a qllick recovery go out to Union Junior Patricia Bowering. A member of Marty Morrison's wornen's swimming Squad, Trisll ·was involved in a serious car ac- cident while home over the holidays. Trish suff.ered a number of injuries but doctors· rep.ort that she's coming alorig ·well and on the road to a speedy recovery. Bowering hails from Pittsford, N.Y. and has been a standout for the lady swimmers the past winters. See ya in the· spring! Downpour Time When it rains it pours for Bill Scanlon's Dutchmen Basketball team this winter. The hoopers sorely miss the backcourt play of Joe Clinton and are slowly adjusting to his gradttauion. Injuries and sickness have also become obstacles that the roundballers must now con- front. Junior swing man Jim Doherty, a starter on last year's NCAA team, returned· to practice at the first of the year . after a pre-season knee injury to only find out tllat the damage \Yas more serious than exper!ted and now could possibly miss the remainder of the campaign. Transfer shooting guard Pete Torncello injured his tlmrnb • . during tryouts and has still yet' to regain the outside touch that made him so dangerous from the perimeter. In last week's tough loss to Albany State both Joe Wood and Freshman for- watd'Bruce Witherspoon played despite having bouts. with the flu. If that's :not bad enough, in Union's heartbreak loss to Manhattanville on Saturda)!' night both second leading scorer Kevin Bartlett and hustling gua,rd Brian Laux walked under a ladder. Bartlett injured his knee and missed Tuesday's game with Mid- dlebury. Joining Bartlett on the pine was Brian Laux who broke his nose early in the second half of s-aturday night's game. . . Hats Off Dept. Special thanks to all those fall coaches and athletes that made my job all thatmuch easier witb their cooperation. . Extra mention must go to Sports Information Director George Cuttita. George kept one step ahead of the media all fall and always answered requests with a smile and a good word. . Alumni News Ex-skating Dutchman goalie Steve Baker was the last player to hold Wayne Gretzky scoreless in a regular season game. Baker did that as a member of the· NY Rangers while on call up to the big club from the minors .. Over the off season the Rangers released the ex-Union standout and. he is now property of the N.J. Devils' organization and playing for their Maine farm club. Coaches Corner For the past two years prior ·to the '83 football season, Union lost pigskin coaches to Brown University .'Two years ago head man Joe Wirth returned to the Ivies while. last winter both Mark Whipple and later John Lovett followed suit. A once- promising situation has turned into a setback for the threesome. Due to a head coaching change both Whipple and Lovett are no longer em the Brown staff while Wirth is disputing a verbal contract breach with the school's atheltic department. . Editors Note: Congratulations to veteran sports staff member Scotty Wykoff on being recently elected General Manager of WRUC. Union Yachting Assoc. Alive ByJONAmAN WHI'INEY Sports Staff The Union College Yacht Racing Association ended its fall season with disappointment as the U.S. Military Academy at West Point cancelled its annual Frost Bite regatta on November· 12-13 because of high winds and forecasts of sleet and snow. The cancellation came just as the team was having its best suc- cess since being reformed in the fall of 1980. After a disap- pointing season last year because of a lack of depth in the roster of skilled skippers, the team gained many new members inthe class of 1987. One of these new members was Andrew Crossley who helped sail the Union team to victory in the team's season opener at the RPI Invite. In this regatta hosted by the RPI Sailing Team on the Mohawk at Dunsback Ferry, back on October 1-2, the Union Team sailed ahead of teams from Army, Cornell and RPI. After the two days of racing in light and variable winds the Union Team was tallied as being only two (2:) points ahead of the RPI tearn. Finishing behind the second place RPI team was the Army team from West Point and then Cornell. The next regatta set for October 8-9th, was tbe prestigious Corinthian, hosted this year by the Stamford Yacht Club in Stamford, CT. The Corinthian is an annual event hosted by various yacht clubs along the north shore of the Long Island sDund which gives college dinghy sailors a chance to race larger boats. The regatta consists of two days of racing around triangular courses approximately 6~18 miles long in boats ranging from 28 to 47 feet in length, under the Performance Han- dicap Eacing Fh~et (PHRF) rating system. The Union team has done very well in the past racing in this regatta because many of the team members are big boat sailors who race their family boats during the sum- mer. This, combined with the recent additions to the team, helped boost the confidence of the team that we would give a good showing at this year's regatta. When the 22 schools all had arrived at the yacht . club on .Saturday morning the 8th, Union was one of the many teams who was unable to provide their own boat and after submitting resumes of the members' experience, waited to be assigned a boat. These boats were donated for the weekend's racing by local skippers who also gave their time as an on- board 'safety officer' for the weekend of racing. Because of the team's past experience with big boats, the team was lucky enough to be assigned to Gonnagitcha, an Olsen 30 owned bY Dick Thursby of Stamford, CT. The first race consisted of a 6.2 nautical mile race in the Sound with an exciting doWil- wind spinnaker start. After a beautiful start, the Union team held on to finish both first in class and first on corrected time, overcoming a last minute challenge by the SUNY Maritime team. When the of- ficial results were read that night after dinner, courtesy of the Corinthian's, jests of \U- Who?\ were heard as the Union team was announced as that day's Division I winners. After Sunday's 10.6 nautical mile race, there were no more jests when the winning team of senior Jon Whitney, juniors John Bensley and Chuck Pollard, and freshman helmsman Andrew Crossley took the finish line gun once again, finishing first in class and leaving the second place team six minutes astern on corrected time. Thetwo firsts in the two days of racing gave the jubilant Union team 1st. in Division I and 1st. place in Fleet. With the spring season starting in April, the Union team will once again be out on the water battling it out with some of the best schools in the northeast. Athlete of the Week By DREW HURLEY Sports Staff Three-year letter winner Joe Caruso is the recipient of Athlete of the Week honors for Hoops ••• Continued from page 12 and Plattsburgh on Saturday. The Dutchmen will face Mid• dlebury with serious physical problems as Bartlett, Laux and Doherty are all out with in· juries. The DUtchmen will have to keep D'Orazio out of fGul trouble and receive solid con• tributions from freshman front court players Mike Miller, Bruce Witherspoon, Tim Coleman and Rich Bartosch if they are to have any chance of success. his efforts in the Dutchmen's 6-3 victory over Geneseo. Caruso is currently tied for second on Union's scoring charts with ten goals and six assists for 16 points. Caruso has scored in eight ·of Union's twelve games. His hat trick against Geneseo was his second of the season and his fourth career trick. Going into Tuesday's Salem St. game, Caruso llad career totals of 49· 47-96, was two points shy of fifth place on the aU=time scoring list, and one goal shy of becoming only the fifth Dut• chman to score fifty goals in his career. · Joe has been very effective on the .Power play to date, registering five power play goals and two game winning goals. The 5'9\ 170 potmd center is a Joe Caruso graduate of the Northwood School. Frank is an economics major and a Chi Psi brother. Best of luck to the skating Dutchmen as they face the Ephs in Williamstown this Saturday. Track Thwarted, But· Not D-ismayed The Rock-N-RoU Pizza Pub Proudly Presents Submarine SCindwiches for your enjoyment By DIU Sports Staff The flying Datohmen returned from Hamilton Col!e,ge with a thirdmplace finish in a close meet that also included Williams. The women's team, however, made an impressive second-place effort, beating Williams and losing to the host. Still set back by injuries ~d sickness, the men's team scor~d 49 points to Williams' 59 and Hamilton's 52. Several im- pressive performances -were made at the meet. Bob Bretagna took first in both the triple jwnp and the long jump ( 40 feet, 7 inches and 19 feet, 8 inches, respectively). Union also took the first two places in the 60 meter dash witll George Capo:z;zi and Todd ·Allen (a' sot>homore transfer from F!VCC) both clocking in at 7.2 .. The strongest performance of the day was made by the mile relay team consisting of Win- ston Britton, Gary Wenner, Phil Gist, and Todd A-llen which placed first in 3:32.1. Despite ·.having only , 9 members, the women scored 43 points to finish 2nd while Williams and Hamilton scored 13 and 74, respectively. J~nny Snover took first in the 500 meter run with a time of 1:29.1 and also placed in the hurdles to score 7 points in the meet. The other two highest scorers were Andrea Grief who scored 5 points in 2 events and Gigi Giordano who scored 7 points in 4 events, including a second place in the long ji.unp. This Friday night the men will host Colgate and Platt- sburgh at the field house in \Friday Night at the Races\ and the women will compete against· UVM and Plattsburgh. Field events will begin at 5:30 and the running events at 7:15. Come support the track team, the only home sporting. event this Friday. Mixed· $2.25 · Ham· $2.25 Turkey· $2.50 Roast Beef- $2.50 Tuna- $2.50 Italian Mixed· $2.25 (8 cut) Large Cheese Pizza •••••••••••••••••••••• $4.85 (6 cut) Small Cheese Pizza •••••••••••••••••••••• $3.75 Pepperoni Sausage X·Cheese Mushroom Peppers Onions Large Chocolate Chip Cookies $.50 a cut $1.00 $1.00 $1.00 $.75 $.57 $.75 FREE DELIVERY Open 7 days a week at 1:30 p.m. Call 370-6060 This week'sspadal 1-12-84 • 1-19-84 One free small soda with the purchase of any sub sandwich 6cut $.75 $ .75 $.75 $.50 $.50 $.50

r Page 12 CONCOR/Jif.'NS/S, January /9, 198-1 SPORTS· oe.Battle Williams Sat. Icemen Defeat Gene.s.eo 6-3 0 +- By A.W'. Sports Staff If anyone on the Union College hockey team ever questioned that good goalten- ding can carry a team, these doubts were erased in the first period of their Oswego State game, as their goaltender, along with a little luck, stymied a Union team that played as good a brand of hockey as they have all season. They could not keep up this intensity for the scoreboard. \I just don't know what to say about that first period,\ said an exasperated Jamie Knight. \We had the opportunities, and we just missed them. We didn't finish off plays like we should have. Of course, the amazing play by their goalie didn't help our cause, but give that guy credit.\ That guy is junior Mike O'Neil of Oswego, who made 15 saves in every position a goalie has ever made a save in, and totally frustrated Union's shooters. 0 .c::: 0. 1- a:: +- tO a. >- ..0 0 ... 0 .c: a. I Co-Captain Jamie KnigtJ.t tries to get Cl backhand shot past the Geneseo net minder. Def. Sean Wills looks on from his point position. Union faces Williams Sat. in a keyECAC Div. II contest. whole game, and fell to the Great Lakers; 5-l. A second period lapse by the Dutchmen did them in. After a frustrating per- formance such as that, some teams unravel for the next few games. Union showed no sign of that against Geneseo, as Joe Caruso's hat-trick and the emergence of transfer defen- seman Dave Weiss led the Dutchmen to a 6-3 win. In the first game, Union outplayed Oswego in every facet in period 1, except on the Oswego eventually drew first blood in the second period, and though Union tied it with a Gill Egan goal a few moments later, Union ~till didn't seem to have the flame it had in the first period. It was also an inap- propriate time for Wayne McDougall to have an un- characteristic lapse, as he let in 3 more goals that didn't exactly resemble Gary Unger wrist shots. An insurance goal by Oswego finished the game's scoring, but the game didn't end until Egan Dutchwomen basketball, led 'by defensive sensation Barbara Weisinger, defeated Skidmore Tues. nite, 56·43. Women's basketball travels to Capita I Dist. rival Albany St. tonite. UNION COLLEGE FRIDAY NIGHT AT THE Men·· UNION COLGATE PLATTSBURGH RACES Women-- UNION PLATTSBURGH UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT Friday, Jan. 20, 1984 • Memorial Field House Field Events 5:30p.m. Running Events 7:00p.m. Relays9:l5 p.m. Refreshments availuble SUPPORT UNION TRACK tried to recreate the Wayne Mackie-Teddy Green tragedy, as a slash to an Oswego player's head resulted in a five-minute major and a one game suspension. Realizing that Union's most productive score was out of the lineup, the Knight- Caruso- Hodgins line decided to take care of matters themselves against Geneseo, as they had a hand in five of Union's six goals. The Dutchemn had a 2-1 lead after 1 period, and again were outplaying their opponents. Coach Morrison perhaps worried that Union . again wouldn't have that killer in- stinct to put it away, ·but this was not the case. First Jamie Knight made the score 3-1. Then Dave Weiss added another to make it a comfortable 4-1lead. Weiss is a transfer from U .N.H. and has been impressive as a defenseman for Morrison. He brings Division I experience to the Dutclnnen, which should surely help for their drive to the playoffs. Curt Cole added a goal for the Dutchmen, and Caruso added his third goal to round out Union's scoring. If this line stays hot and Egan comes back in his usual form, the skating Dutchmen should be able to put a string of wins together, starting Tuesday against S!llem State. NOTES OFF THE POST: Not including his suspended game, Gill Egan has scored at least a point in _ 8 consecutive games ... Union is 5-6-1 overall, 3- 3-1 in Division II. All of their remaining games are against Division II opponents ... Ben Maynard's consecutive games strea~ was snapped Tuesday against Salem State. Ben has played 99 consecutive games for the skating Dutchmen, and is one of the iron man leaders in Union College hockey history. Congratulations, Ben. soph. winger Torn Hodgir:~s f141 watches puck go into net in hockey action at AChilles. The Skating Dutchmen are 4·3·1 in Div. II. SCOR,EBOAR·D HOCKEY (4·3'1 Div. 10 (5·6·1 overall) Union 6 Union 4 BASKETBALL (7·5) Geneseo3 Salem St. 3 Albany St .. BO Union 72 Manhattanville BO Union 74 Union 81 Middlebury 59 Union 64 Union 56 Hobart 54 Williams 59 Hamilton 52 Hamilton74 Union43 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (2·2} MEN'S SWIMMING (0·1) MEN'S INDOOR TRACK (0·2) WOMEN'S INDOOR TRACK (l·lJ SPORTS HAPPENINGS Jan. 1.9-26 St. Rose49 Skidmore43 Union40 Union49 Union49 Union43 Williams 14 Varsity Hockey Jan. 21 at Williams 7:30 Jan. 25·Middlebury 7:30 Ments Basketball Jan. 21 at Plattsburgh 8:0(} J.V.Hockey Jan.26Avon 3:15 J.V.BCisketball Jan.23atHartwick 6:00 Jan.25atWilliams 7:00 Women's Basketball Jan. 19 at Albany St. · 7:00 Jan. 21 Willi.ams 7:00 Jan. 25 at Vassar 6:00 Men's Swimming Jan. 26 at Hartwick 7:00 Women/s Swimming Jan. 23 Russell Sage . 5:00 Jan. 26 at liartwick 7:00 Men's Indoor Track Jan. 20Colgate, Plattsburgh · 6:30 Women/s Indoor Track J'an. 20 Vermont,Piattsburgh 6:30 Hoop Drops Two on Week By BLACKNESS Sports Staff The Union College basketball team dropped two games last week, 80-72 to Albany State, and 80-74 to Manhattanville College, leaving their record at 6-5. It also marked the first time the Dutchmen had dropped two consecutive games since the early part of the 1981-'82 season. At Albany State last Wed· nesday, the Great Danes defeated Union for the second time this season, pulling away in the final few minutes on the strength of their foul-shooting . The Dutchmen led 36-34 at the half, but came out sluggish in _ the second half as they allowed the Danes to ji,Uilp to a 46-40 lead. Union battled back to a 52- 52 tie on Brian Laux's pair of charity tosses at the 10:35 mark, but Albany scored the next four points and never relinquished that lead. When Ken D'Orazio, who had scored 16 points on perfect 7-7 shooting fouled out with 4~36 remaining irt the contest he took the Dutch- men's hopes of victory to the bench with hhn. Kevin 'Bartlett led Union with .18 points, while flu-ridden Joe Wood managed to add 14. At home on Saturday, the Dutclunen looked . as if they would pull out a win as they surged·from behind to take a 62• 69lead with 3 :·00 left, but tnissed numeroUs opportunities at the foul line, as they failed to score down the stretch. Manhat- tanville cashed in at the other end to score eleven of the game's last thirteen points and take the 80-74 win. Union trailed 43-37 at the half, and fell behind by as many as ten in the second half, but rallied behind the Joe Wood show to take the lead late in the game. Wood, the senior guard, poured in 33 points in- cluding 19 in the second half to keep the Dutchmen in con- tention. Bartlett again con- tributed 18 in a losing cause. Union will now have to bounce back away from home, as the . Dutchmen play their next four games on the road beginning With. Middlebury on Tuesday Continued on page 11 Joe Wood and his 20.3 avg. will lead the Dutchmen into Saturday's contest at Plattsburgh st. Hoops. record stands at 7-5. · • 'i .E 0 .c 0. ~ ~ .. ( • . ~~ t~ if! H I ~ 0 01 ·~··· ) ri I N . . ·-~ ~ 1 $1 c: . Q) ~ <!> g t: i ~ .. ~~.~ D 0 ~· 0. tl (J tl d c E 1\1 t1 a a VI a n c il 'I v il v c c F n p d r a n tl t' t: f, s f I t. li ~ 'li t t l 1 t ~ ( \ l t ' t ] ( E . < I I t i t t f

_g ·0 ..s:: 0. 1- ~ 0 m c:: Q) c.!) E: 0 1- >- .c 0 CXUl,· N.o. 12 g. 0. Vice Presideht for Academic .Affai.rs Thomas D'Andrea discusses split term concept. York Janu_ary 26_, 1984 Split - Term Investigated By DOUG LANDON Staff A proposal to restructure the trimester academic calendar has b~en devised by the Com- mittee on Union Education (CUE), after a suggestion by President John S. Morris that the .committee investigate ways to improve the present system. A proposal to return to a semester calendar was defeated last year. CUE originated two alter• native calendars. Both of these calendars include split winter terms, late May graduation dates, two week spring breaks, earlier starting dates and \substantial\ Thanksgiving breaks. Criticism has arisen over the system we now utilize. The drawbacks include the late spring dis~issal dates, short spring breaks, lengthy stret- ches from early January to mid- June, and fall final exams separated from the term by the Thanksgiving recess. break. James Underwood, Professor of Political Science and CUE member, charac- terizes the existing one week break as \the worst .single thing about the Union calendar.•• Campus Parties Reviewed In an interview Monday, President Morris claimed to be neither a proponent nor an opponent of the CUE proposal at this time, but \wants the faculty and the corrununity to look at the problems the three term system has in its present configuration.\ He believes that · neither the present nor the proposed schedule is com- pletely without faults, and A second benefit to the split winter term calendar (SWTC), as many see it, is the· scheduling of spring term exams two weeks earlier than we presently know it. Students would gain two weeks in their search for summer jobs. Also \common folklore\ dictates that students have a desire to party and enjoy the sunshine as spring hits Schenectady., D'Andrea believes, and at present Union remains in session weeks after most other colleges have finished. The nice weather \inhibits us from using this time effectively,\ he said, musing that \I feel like par~ tying too.\ ByLORIOLUWENSTEIN Staff On Wednesday, January 18, the Inter Fraternity Council (IFC) held a joint meeting with the Panhellenic Council to discuss a proposal set forth by Chris Me Morrow, President of Delta Upsilon (DU). Me Morrow's proposal dealt with the problems whi~h have arisen at .au~campus parties this term and last. Me Morrow's plan, which began with stating the possible causes of the problems, dealt basically with collecting monetary \donations\ at all- campus parties, and also with instituting a bouncer program. The proposal was ·ultimately voted down by a vote of 17-2, but in the discussion previous to the vote, several interesting counter-proposals and ideas came through. · Assistant Dean of Students, Robert Massa, also attended the meeting, and 'listened to the proposal and the . enst~ing discussion.· \I .think that the representatives from the IFC and the Panhellenic Council made a valiant effort in at- tempting to identify the roots of the problems that occurred at three all-campus parties last fall and also made an attempt to suggest solutions. I think they found out very quickly that the problem is a complex one and that no one solution will solve it.\ Liability Questioned ·A major objection· to McMorrow's proposal dealt with alcohol related liability. As the party situation stands now, the liability that the fraternities have to deal with is a host liability. However, if they were to charge money and serve alcohol, even if not charged directly for the alcohol, they would have to obtain liquor licenses. This would put them in the category of vendors, and vendor liability is. much greater than host liability. On February 1, a Troy attorney, Charles Carletta, is coming to Union to speak to the IFC on liability and alcohol related cases involving minors and visibly intoxicated persons. ''After his presen- tation, members can better identify what steps they have to take to decrease the chance that their organization would suffer financial liability a~ a result of an accident caused by an in- toxicated minoi or someone who is served at their party past the point of no return,\ said Massa, in an interview after the Wednesday night meeting. ''We have to get at the root of the problem by the.legal aspect.~· The reality of the potential legal and financial problems when such incidents occur is exemplified by a case that occurred last year in Virginia; Bohman vs. Ware. The incident occurred at the University of Virginia and involved the issue of maintaining discipline and good order. A Kappa Epsilon (KE) chapter lost a suit to a man whose vision was per- \The college could impose its own restrictions . . . I don't think we .. should do that though.\ -Massa manently damaged when he and a brother went outside dilring a party to settle an argument. Both the brother and the fraternity were sued, but only the fraternity was held liable because the brothers did not attempt to restrain 'the defendant. The host was held to have responsibility to maintain order, and the KE. chapter was made to pay $125,000. Thus, the potential problems are clear if the fighting and destruction at fraternity parties on campus are not somehow stopped or at least lessened considerably. As Massa stated, \The College could impose its own restrictions to meet the ends we feel have to be met--to lessen the chance that something like what happened at the University of Virginia happens here. l don't think we should do that tough. I think there would be much more legitimacy and much more chance of enforcement if it came from the students. I don't want to tell them what to do. I want them to create solutions.\ Me Morrow's proposal provided a basis for other suggestions and for ·discussion of the true problem. Over- crowding was agreed upon as being a potential cause of problems .. and destruction. Mc·- Morrow felt that his proposal would reduce the nwnber of people coming to the parties because of the charge, and that it would also be easier to control the size of the parties if there was someone at the door wat- ching the crowd. Others thought that such sUrveillance could be accompliSped without charging by just posting someene at the door of parties. Another suggestion dealt with making sure that more than one all- campus party was scheduled on a night, which would spread the crowd out more. An additional proposal involved w:orking with the social committee to see if it too could. schedule events in coordination with the frater- nities to relieve crowding. The main tangible result of the hour long discussion and McMorrow's proposal· was the creation of a sub-committee to review the problem and come up with a proposal of their own. This will be presented at another joint IFC-Panhellenic council meeting, including social chairpersons of the houses, to· be held on February 28at 8:00 PM in the forum room on Carnegie.'s 4th floor. The sUbcommittee is to be com- posed of three IFC represen- tatives and three Panhellenic representatives. The lFC members are Jim Parsons of Sigma Chi, Roger Harris of DU, and Dan Rabinovitz of Beta. The Panhellenic members have yet to be chosen. Series of Policies Massa~s main hope for the outcome of all this is that \the IFC and the Panhellenic Council will endorse a series of policies that they believe will increase the chance for trouble free all-campus parties, and through peer pressure would enforce these policies on all Greek organizations. Violations of these policies would then result in sanctions against the offender.\ The outcome of this issue is still up in the air, but will . undoubtedly be much debated and considered at the February 28th meeting and by the members of the new sub- conunittee. Election Statements · agrees with Thomas D'Andrea, Vice President for Academic Affairs, that ''there is no perfect calendar.\ Morris asserts that \if a change gives the greatest benefit, that is the way we have to .go.\ . Advocates of the CUE plan point to several aspects that they see as advantages. Many faculty members find the single week span between winter and spdng terms as insufficient tiqle to grade final Eptams and papers, compile term grades, adequately prepare for spring courses, and enjoy a few days of relaxation and adjustment to new material. Morris sees this as a '!real and significant\ concern. The proposal would provide two full weeks between terms, which would also enable students to enjoy a longer William J. Daniels, Dean of Undergraduate Studies and Professor of Political Science, says he had noticed a ''decline in student output during the spring term.\ Underwoe>d speculates, \I don't think you have the same enthusiasm. If I were a student I'd find it in- tolerable.\ A- perceived negative aspect of the present calendar that the CUE proposal would eliminate is the long January-to-June stretch. The first three weeks of winter term are held from about December 1 to just before Christmas under the plan, followed by a two or three week break. The calendar from January through the end of the year would not only be broken · Continued on page 5 1- 0! >- ..0 ~ s::. Singer, songwriter Bi.lly Idol in concert at Proctor's last Friday c. night. p.4 Idol Review ·p. 11

.. • CON('ORIJIJ:.'NSJ.\: Jtmuury 26, 1984 > .::L. \' .... 0 .... ro ro c: 0 -, ::;.. .n 0 0 n Director of the ~lqan Foundation Al.cm Taylor of the Mathematics Department Sloan Progra.m ·Meets By LINDA RAFFAELE Staff The ten liberal arts colleges, including Union, chosen by the Sloan Foundation in the fall of '82 to participate in the Sloan New Liberal Arts Program met at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York City on January-5 and 6. The meeting was called by the Sloan Foundation to discuss how each of the colleges was making use of the $250,000 grant issued by the foundation to advance technologialliteracy at each institution. Present at the conference were the presidents of the ten colleges, program directors ' from each school, the officers of the Sloan Foundation, and a small advisory group from the foundation. Union's president John Morris and Professor Alan Taylor of the Math Department were in attendance. · To begln, each college . was invited to explain how its grant had been used. An official in- terim report is due from each college in August, but by getting together to talk about the progress each institution had made, new ideas were shared and the colleges learned from each other. Minor Option Questioned Director of the Sloan Program at Union, Alan Taylor, commented that '!one theme which ran throUghout the conference was the realization by both the colleges and the foundation that the three-year time frame was too optimistic. Seven years. seems to be more realistic.\ He continued, \I ain optimistic, however, that the foundation will continue to assist Union in, its efforts beyond the term. of the origitlal grant.'' course sequence of \Mathematics in the Social .Sciences.'' Professor Bill Stone, also of the mathematics department, will be offering a course in the Spring in problem solving for humanities students. Chairman of the Psychology Department 'Rudy Nyclegger, Professor Sha.nebrook (mechanical engineering) is in the process of designing a course on the nuclear power question for . non~science majors, and Profess.or BUl Martin, of the chemistry departm~nt, •s preparing for a .course ·on nuclear arms, .possibly to be ()ffered together with Political Science Professor Byron Nichols. Professor Andy 'l3urke ·(mechanical .engine.ering) is working on some engineering offerings ·for hwnahists. Possibly the\ most exciting aspect of the Sloan Program at Union is a .pro~ect caUed By DAVE MARIN Staff Many schools offer students the opportunity to \minor'' in a .,-~department other than their major course of study. This allows students the chance to concentrate on more than just one discipline during their four- year college education. If the \minor\ option were available to Union students, it is likely that the specific requirements in any given discipline would be the same as for that depart- ment's inter-departmental major requirements. It should be noted that in no way would the major be changed. The minor becomes merely an added option. Who stands to benefit from the minor system, especially in a school that already has a popular inter-departmental program? One possible ad- vantage of a minor system is · that it might encourage students in so-called profession oriented majors like economics or biology to also concentrate in something more of the liberal arts type like English or sociology, thus helping to round out his or her education. It would also give students in these liberal arts majors a chance to concentrate in something marketable like computer science and gain recognition for it. When asked what he thought of the idea, Professor Dwight Phaup, chairman of the Academic Affairs Council ( AAC). said that he had \no gut feeling against it . . . so long as we advertise clearly to the external community . . . whaf we mean by a minor.\ others expressed this same concern over what a minor would constitute and how it would be viewed by those outside the school. ·Calvin Schmidt, registrar of the college, was wary of how easy it might be for a student to minor in a depart- mEnt. He stated; \I sen:se that · students are looking for another star to put on their 1ecord\ stressing the importance of substantial requirements for a minor to avoid a flood of \gut\ minors. 'There was also a question of whether there was really a need for the minor at all. • Phaup noted that the transcript :speaks clearly and that the .pr()spective employer could easily see concentrations in sec()ndary areas. There is a questio11 as to how many students wollld ac- tually use the system and to wllat end. He suggestedtbat the Student Forum be prompted to take up the issue to ascertain just what student interest was. Schmidt pointed out tltat, in faet, students are essentially minoring now by taking C()urses in a secorid department. They . just .do not have that ()fficial mark on their transcript. (They are also not submittin~ to a prescribed set of re(Juired COill'SeS.) Professor William Zwi.eker (mathematics department) als() of the AAC, while ge!lerally positive about the idea, ex- pressed concern over- the possible loss of flexibllity that would result from taking a major and minor cour:3e of study simultaneously. A rnajor reqllires an average vf 14 colll'ses and a minor -would probably take 6-8 courses. When yo11 add 11 Liberal learning r-equirements (2-4 of which would be covered by the najor) you. see that 27-31 of 36 C()urses ar.e not electives, leavillg 5·9 free electives. An issue that wollld have to be addressed is whether that allows enough tledbUity. When laid out on paper in that way, Zwicker seemed to believe that 5-!J was actually sufficient. N()body was particularly negative about the idea ttJ.ough most were not convinced ()f an absolute need for it. All agreed that it was at least worthy of ,f ~-- :t '-c!'-,:z ~ ~ ..,..),..__,.~ • • ;911 by Alan Ayckbourn January 28- February 19 Comic intrigues abound in the English countryside. Corporate sponsor: Sterling-Winthrop Research Institute/ Sterling Drug Inc. Performances: Tuesday-Saturday 8:00pm; Sunday 2:30pm and Wednesday, Feb. 1. 2:30 Pf'l1 Non Student Tickets $8-$13 Students with I. D. Y2 price Tu'esday-Thursday evenings, and Sunday Matinee. Limited availability 30 minutes before curtain. 111 North Pearl Street.Aibany,NewYork 518·462·4534 Tickets available at The Market Theatre and Community Box Offices. MasterCard and VISAaccepted, (No refunds or Avnh<~n,nAA ~ consideration, but jllSt has not been brought up. In his thirty- five years associated with Union, Schmidt says the issue has never beim formally ad .. dress.ed though people talk about it from timeto time. To go into effect. the plan would have to pass the. AAC' s vote and then that of the faculty. The action does not, however, have to start in the AAC. The Student Forwn could address the issue or individual students could establish enough interest to make it worth the AAC's time. Phaup stated that while not a top .priority, the idea was also not frivolous and indicated that it would be worthy of his committee's consideration at some time. Another committee of im- portance in that area is the CUE (Committee on Union Education). Professor Edward Craig of the electrical engineering department and also a member of the CUE, was sufficiently interested in the idea that he plans to bring it up at the next meeting. He said, \I can't think of anything against it,'' noting that others un- doubtedly would. We will have to wait for the results of the CUE meeting to see what resistance it may meet from the faculty. Plans for upcoming events were ·also discussed. As for tbe pr.ogram at Union, it is now starting to move from the faculty level into the classroom. The cornerstone of the course development phase involves the creation of a quantitative version of the already existing Freshman Preceptorial. The course would include the topics of probability and statistics in ris~ analysis and decision- making situation, but it would be . interdisciplinary in scope. The committee involved in developing the course includes: Professor Dwight Phaup (economics), Professor Andrew B u r k e ( m e c·h a n i c a 1 engineering), Professor John Boyer (biology), and Professor Terry Weiner (sociology). New Developments New developments are also taking place in the math. and science departments. Professor Bill Zwicker (math) and Professor Susan Niefield (math) are in the process of aiming to reconstruct the two- ' ''CHUC'' (computerized · humanities curriculum). This year, about ten courses in phHosophy, classics, history and modern languages will involve - new computer uses: Courses .in technological values and experime.ntal phenomenology will also be developed. Involved in \CHUC\ are: Professor Robert Baker (philosophy), Professor 'Judith Ginsberg (modern languages), Professor Linda Patrik (philosophy), Professor ~teven Sargent (history), Professor Jordan Smith {EngliSh), Professor Mark Toher (classics), and Professor Tom Warger (modem languages). Taylor also commented that \procedural matters as op- posed to matters of substance were discussed at the meeting.\ In response to this, President Morris brought up a proposal which was \well received\ by both the Sloan Foundation and the colleges alike. He suggested that the foundation bring just the presidents together to discuss the substance, of technological literacy in a liberal arts education. . Taylor expects that the foundation will follow up on this. Forum Discusses Issues By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Features Editor The Union Student Forwn met this past Monday, January 23. A variety of issues were discussed. As is the usual format, the conunittee reports were given first. Jamie Danziger, the Academic Affairs Council (AAC) Representative, reported no new committee developments, although numerous issues were still being discussed. Next to be heard from was Jacques Simone, Junior Representative, and one of the three forum members on _the Student Affairs Council (SAC). At its last meeting, the SAC discussed possibly changing its meeting times because of .a conflict with one of its student members. A study on \Behavior that Violates Standards of Community,\ is to be initiated by the SAC. Five areas are to · be examined: Vandalism, Sexual harassment, Violence against a person; Abuse at parties, and Alcoholism. Junior Steve Benson, Independent Student Coalition (ISC) Representative, presented his report on the ISC's activities. Presently, the ISC is preparing to mount a massive lobbying effort in Albany towards the passage .of the new TAP parity bill. Benson then submitted for approval to the , forum, a resolution declaring the foruin' S support for TAP parity and initial organization of lobbying efforts for TAP. The resolution was passed unanimously. Shari Midoneck and Melissa Viglielmo, the two student trustees, presented a report on the recent trustees meeting. Campus construction is soon to begin on the Arts ~uilding which is entering its second phase of renovation. Con- struction is to begin in the late Spring, ending in September. The increase in college tuition was also discussed. Tuition for 1984-85 will be $8,710, an in- crease of $660. Room and board will increase from $1,400 to $1,515. The meal plan will go up from $1,440 to $1.,555. All together, costs should increase from $10,890 to $11,780 for the coming year. Lastly, the student activities fee was raised to $42 per term (versus the present $38). An important note, however, is that the amount available for financial aid has been increased, along with Union professors' salaries. The split winter term .proposal was not discusse(l at the meeting. The meeting's focus then shifted to \old business.\ At the last forum meeti.ng..' the decision to .formally recogmze the Union College Women's ·Support Group was tabled until this week. At this past m!leting, three present members (Teresa Shank, Ravit A v.ni,. and Sheri Weitzen) and one past member of the organization (Kathy Kozera) appeared to speak on behalf of the group. The main concern of the forum was the issue of funding the group- would non-student members have to pay for the facilitator, a woman who attends the meetings and helps direct the group communication? Teresa Shank assured members of the forum that yes, non-students have and will pay for the facilitator. Even so, funding for the group remained in .question. A motion was then made to recognize the group with student activity status (Fun- ding is not an automatic part of recognition). The motion passed tlllanimollSly. As for the issue of funding, a motion was made to table the group funcUng until next week but to provide the group with enough money to hire a facilitator for their next meeting. Female members of the forum will be attending the group's next meeting and will report to the forum at its next meeting. This motion also passed (lOy 2a). Lastly to be discussed were the specifics of the President's Banquet. Andrew George presented a quick summary of the evening's events.

' !\ CQ(VCORJJIEIVSIS, Jan11or.r 26. 1984 Page3 Board ofTrustees Meet By MARCY BURSTINER Staff . Last week the Board .of Trustees held its annual winter term meeting. Among the topics discuased were the develop- m~nts with the College Center and Alumni Gym plans, renovations for the Arts Building, renovations in the Fox and Davidson dormitories, fraternity fire safety im .. provements, and the increased cost of a Union education .for the 1984 .. 85 academic year. Apparently, the controversy over the .split winter term proposal was not brought .up. Projected date for the completion of the new College Center and Alumni Gym has been set .for 1987. Members of the College Center Planning CollUllittee have already visited various student centers at Vassar, Wesleyan, Bucknell, and will be traveling to other colleges from the New York and New J3}ngland area. A search for · architects has already . begun for the joint project. Forty architects have already ex .. pressed interest and it seems that President Morris will make a recommendation for an ar- chitect in the spring. Costs are expected to total anywhere between 10 and 12 million dollars. When asked where the funds will come from, Midoneck replied that it is a \difficult question'' to answer. . She explained however that the president is in charge of the campaign. \They'll find it,\ she remarked. Renovations for the Arts Building has reached its sec()ild phase in the three-phase project, Student trustee Melissa Viglielmo told the student forum Monday night. The $438,000 from the.Kresge G:rant which is funding the project will go towards photo lab im- provements, expanded space for the performing arts, forum space for display of student art work, and lecture halls. No work is presently underway for the third floor. · Renovations in the Fox and Davidson dormitories have been completed. Accordillg to reports presented at the Trustees meeting, the problem of the five-man suite situation has been more · or less alleviated. Fraternity fire safety im- provements were discussed. A 300 percent improvement over last year has been made in the fraternity houses, Midoneck said. Although minor repairs sti:ll need to be completed, all the critical faults. have been taken care of. . The iast and most important issue was that of tuition in- creases. Although voted down by both student trustees, the board voted overall to raise tuition for next year by $660. This will bring it from $8,050 to $8,710. In addition room and board fees will increase to $1;515. 'l'he cost of food service, for the most popUlar meal plan, will be $1,555: or $518 per term, Midoneck said. The total cost for the 198~5 year will rise from $10,~90 to $11,780, . In order tQ help out students now having diffictilty .paying for their education, the trustees voted to increase financial aid by $293,ooO with an additional · $50~000 increase in loans. VVhen as~ed to cornnnent on the rising meal costs, Midoneck remarked that it was ''ridiculous.'' She was most concerned over the tuition in- creases, howeve.r. She felt disturbed. She explained that the main reason for raising tuition was to compete with other independent colleges. The trustees believe it necessary that the Union tuition be ''comparable to other schools of our caliber,'~ she explained. When ranked in order of highest tuition, ''we aren't on the top,\ she added. \We are lower tha11 other schools\ if that is a consolation. The trustees are concerned that if Union does not increase its costs at the same rate as the other in- stitutions, prospective fresh- men might feel as if Union p~ovides only a second-rate education. Midoneck claims that the trustees understand the dismay of the two students present at the meeting. They felt, however, that based on studies done, money is still needed for such things as the computer cen'ter improvement, renovati()ns planned for the future, etc. Viglielrno had suggested to the board that finanCial aid be increased even more. They replied that increased financial aid would .require an increase in the budget allocations and therefore further increases in tuition. Guidelines for Dutchman's Night ReservatioDs Reservations for Dutchman's Night will only be accepted at the P:izza Pub during normal business hours MOnday through Thursday. • When making reservations all persons or meal cards must be present. This is tc insure proper reservation taking. • The party must be booked all at once, this will insure a better dining atmosphere. We cannot accept 11 maybe\ reservations. • cash reservations are welcome. Those who will be paying fordinner,.please pay at the door. • A person must bring his-her IDi meal card and entry ticket at Dutchman's NigJlt. If these are not present, a person cannot be seated .. • Anyone caught using another individual's I D, .. meal card or dinner ticket will be turned over to the· director of food service. Meal card and I D will be taken. • Because of a large dining room turnover, we ask that you be prompt for dinner. ThiS will insure an e.asy turnover, and no waiting for people at iater seatings. . Mana ement-of the Dutch Hollow Pub . Both Midoneck and. Viglielmo were quick to add that the trustees were not trymg to work against the students. ''These people really love the school.\ Midoneck remarked. \Even though they make unpopular. decisions that I don't always agree with ... they have a great pride for Union.\ Viglielmo also stressed that the board is composed of brilliant people who have proven themselves in their respective fields. They donate much of their time and money to· the schOol, she added. The next meeting for the Board of Trustees is scheduled for April. Student Trustees Melissa Viglielmo and Shari Midoneck Polish History OHered By GAYLE ROSENFELD News Editor Recently, the Academic Affairs Council (AAC) ap .. proved a new course proposed by Professor Stephen Berk of the histqry department. The class is History 56 and is en- titled, simply enough, the \Jlistory of Poland/' Berk has slated it to be offered in the spring trimester of 1985. Classic Case When asked why a course on Poland, Berk had much to say. \It (Poland) provides a classic case of the impulse for preservation,\ noted Berk. The Poles suffered deeply under foreign occupation, but they held on to their identity. \Poland under German oc- . cupation, has to be of great interest to the student of the Nazi period and .world War II in general,'~ continued Berk. \It's here in Poland that we see Nazism\reach its zenith.\ In regards to the postwar era, 1945 to the present, one can see \a very great drama being played out,\ saidBerk. With the \forceable establishment of Communism,\ one can view the \attempt of a nation to struggle against Communist domination.\ A country with this heritage should prove qUite interesting to the history major, other students interested in foreign affairs, and even to students interested in mankind's struggle for preservation. \Poland has always,\ noted Berk, ''at- tracted the interest of Eur-opean students of politics and history.\ The course material will cover from the thirteenth century until the present. P()land, although only recently attracting worldwide interest again, ·\was a major European power until the end of the seventeenth century,\ said Professor Stephen Berk Berk. It is a country with a lot to offer any historian. Berk has three major reasons for teaching History 56. First off, the obvious rationale is to offer a new course both for the students and the professor. Boredom can obviously ensue on the part of a professor who teaches the same course year after year. That is inevitable. Secondly, a Polish history Foreign J!olicy Colloquium ••• J course, said Berk, \connects with my interest in Jewish history.\ Thirdly, it also \connects very nicely with my teaching and. studying of Russian history.\ Russian and Jewish history are well known points of Berk's expertise. A ·further knowledge of . Poland should round off both these interests while adding another one. In regards to its seemingly far off commencement date, Berk Wishes to do more reading on the subject. Any new course entails e:g:tensive research. Berk would also like to visit Poland in the near future. Although he has been to Russia, he has yet to travel to its neigh- bor Poland. As to the course's future, \if it works out well, I may modify it and teach a course on East Central Europe,\ said Berk. He is really the only expert on this region in his department. This class will \fill a gap in the history ·department\ for no course is taught involving this region as of yet. Familiar Formats · The class will follow a familiar format to any refugee from one of Berk's ten-week excursions through history. It will be a lecture course in- volving, inevitably, extensive reading. However, if Berk remains true to form, the lec- tures should prove to be well worth the fare. DeCisions Group Visits Next Wednesday evening important foreign policy issues Branch, and the national media. (February 1) in Strauss Lounge facing the United· States. Then, The eight issues for 1984 are: at 7:30 will mark the· beginning FPA's editors publish a concise The U.S.S.R. Under Andi'opov; of a unique intellectual op- and easy-to-read 96,-page Mexico and the U.S.; U.S. portunity for the. Union com- magazine-size paperback which Security and World Peace; munity. That is the date and provides in-depth background South Africa; International location of the first meeting of and current data on each of the Debt Crisis; Saudi Arabia and the· 1984 Gt;eat Decisions eight topics; impartial review Jordan; China and the U.S.; discussion program. Great of the Administration's policies and International Drug Traffic. Decis-ions is a nationwide with pros and cons for alter- Great Decisions at Union is program which, each week, native choices available to U.S. being sponsored by the Jewish discusses a different foreign policymakers; suggested Student Union (JSU), UCAM, policy is~ue facing the United readings; questions for United Campus to Prevent States. • discussion; illustrations; and Nuclear War, and the Campus This year marks th.e thirtieth opinion ballots bound in the Ministry .. The Great Decisions year that Great Decisions is book. books may be purchased for being offered in the United For eight consecutive $6.00 from Barry Tils (374-8583), States by the Foreign Policy Wednesdays, these issues will L. Russell. Pet (370-8788), or Association (FPA). The FPA is be discussed. At the end of each Professor W.B. Martin of the a national, nonpartisan, discussion, opinion ballots will chemistry department (370- nongovernmental association be filled out, which ask several 6336) · If you have any questions which works to help Americans questions on the evening's topic. or problems with funding for increase their understanding of The reSults of these ballots are these books, please contact any significant U.S. foreign policy tabulated by public opinion of these people or stop by the issues, and to stimulate con- experts and are presented by booth in Carnegie this Friday structive citizen participation in the FPA to members of (tomorrow) from 10:30 a.m. - world affairs. Each .year, the Congress, the Executive 1:30 p.m. FPA chooses the eight most There will be an organizational meeting for all persons interested i.n working on the Publicity/ Advertising Committee of the 1988 Freshman Record. All Are Welcome! Monday, January 30th 5:00p.m. Strauss Lounge

CONCOR.IHI;'NSJ.~: Junua;;r 26. 1984 Student Forum Election Statements Ul c • .0 .0 0 IX (iJ > <1.> - If) Damore Joseph Damore One of the main problems that we, as a Freshman class faced when we arrived on campus in September, was our sudden lack of power and prestige. Many of us had been leaders ill our High School years, whether our interests were Athletic, Academic, or Political in nature. Suddenly, we were in an environment where we were on the bottom again, and rules were made for us without our consent or input. As a Freshman, this drop in authority bothered me. As a Senior in High School, I was the President of our Student Government and a member of the National Honor Society. 1, as well as many members of our Freshman class, enjoyed the prestige and authority that we had as Seniors. Like others, it was difficult to adjust to that loss. This is why I am running for the office of Freshman Representative of Student Forum. I feel that we as a Freshman class have a right to be represented in the lawmaking processes of our school. I also feel that with your help, we can reverse our loss of authority. With your votes, and your input, we can make our class powerful once again. 1 would greatly appreciate your support in this endeavor. Michael Garrett This class needs a representative who will voice its concerns in a rational, mature, and well organized manner. As representative I will work diligently to see that the opinions of the class of 1987 are presented accuratelv and Glenn S. Krutoff Mter almost four years here, I can say, without hesitation, that I am still emotionally at- tached to Union. I have no doubt that my decision to come here was a successful one. A small school like ours affords ample opportunity to be involved and I am proud of my involvement on this campus. Last year I was the Arts editor of Concordiensis. Three years ago, I was part of the ~roup of students that worked to restart Mountebanks. Student theatre at Union had died due to apathy and mismanagement, but we strove to re-establish Mountebanks. Last year, as student manager in the Pub, I was responsible for Freshman Representative fairly. This class should have a representative capable of making responsible decisions. I am confident that we will be able to work together in seeing that the freshman class is well spoken for in the student forum. Garrett Stephen N. Lipsky Hi, my name is Steve Lipsky and I'm running for Freshman R~presentative. l could go on and tell you all the activities that I was involved in before c-allege right down to second grade eraser clapping but this isn't high school so it doesn't matter. What does matter is that 1 am a concerned fresh- Lipsky man. My concerns are not only for myself and my friends but also for the Union College student body as a whole. I feel· that Union College has a wealth of things to offer but only if we pursue and take advantage of them. I'm the one to take your ideas and suggestions and help evolve them into the things you want from your next folll' years at Union. As freshmen, now is the time to mold this .campus into a place we will be happy with and proud of. I can only accomplish this with you:r support. With your backing I, Steve Lipsky, can make the freshman opinion count. Moss Steven Moss My name is Steven Moss, and I believe that as freshmen at Union, we deserve to have our views taken into consideration as part of the decision making process. I'm sure that we all think life at Union can' be im- proved in one way or another, but the trick is to get these changes to occur. Some such changes that I would like to see are improvements in the quality of food and more importantly, the quality of residential life in the dorms. Just this year, the lounges in Fox and Davidson have been refurnished with couches. and with -televisions. Now that the lounges in those two dorms have been improved, I would like to see the lounges in the other dorms have some work done to them as well. In addition, it upsets me that there are few things I see the high cost of tuition gojng towards other than room, board and classes. For instance, we have only one racketbaU court on campus and very few other indoor athletic facilities; clearly, they are lacking. For this reason, I plan to see that the proposed renovations of the Alumni Gym and Carnegie Hall are not only carried out, but that they are completed before we graduate. As for my qualifications, I have been the leader of several .organizations throughout the past few years as well as a number of student groups. Lauren Sanders I am Lauren Sanders. I would like to be your Freshman Representative to the Student Forwnthis year. Becausei am a well rounded person, I feel that I can properly represent the diversity .of our class. Having served on various committees in the past, I am well-prepared to accept the re()ponsibilities and demands of being a student representative. I am willing to hear and speak for any ideas that are proposed. U I am elected to this position, the Freshman Class will be heard. ABC .. Sanders Kim Ungar I am tired of expending my energy complaining about things I want changed, so I haye decided to try to direct that energy toward getting them changed. I was very active in my high school goverrunent and was elected Secretary of my class. Here at Union I am · a Political Scjence major and have been involved m many clubs and sports, i.e. tennis, Ungar crew. I would like the chance to begin working now for changes so that they will be im- plemented before we graduate. From talking to friends I have Senior Representative K rutoff getting Dutchmen's Night off the ground. I am proud to see it thrive. I have the determination to achieve the most I can for the students of Union College. This is why I am running for the position of Senior Class Represen ta ti ve. Please remember to vote Glenn Krutoff on Friday. Matt Nankin Only in recent weeks has the Student Forum begun to ad- dress an issue that I believe to be of the utmost importance for any governing body. This issue concerns the relationship between the Forum and its consHtuency--the students. Recent actions taken by the Forum, such as having a President's Banquet-Freshman Chapel and encouraging members to give talks at in-· Nankin gathered that thel,le are a few things ·of major concern I would like to work for, such as establishing a student union building and reducing apathy among st.udents. In addition I have some ideas of my o:wn like working to increase social activities during fall term thus mitigating the depressing ef- fects of a l•o-n•g winter term. Finally I would hope for a lot of iinput from the class of '87. We deserve our say and I want to make sure we get it. Sam White Wow!! I have the opportunity to run for representative -of my freshman class, and I plan to grab at this opportunity in order ta ~erve my fellow classmates. I am fortunate to be a part of one of the greatest freshman classes that Union has ever had. The diversity, the-spirit, and the warmth that comes through from our class is outstanding. Since I believe this class is so great I think it deserves a college that is as. great. Union has a lot to offer, but not everything is lli!ed to its fullest capacity. For example, the pub should be improved enabling students to dance as well as drink. Also, the proposal for a White split winter term could h~v:e serious effects for the limon College community. As your representative, I would try my. best to make sure that your views ar.e represented when vital decisions are made. Bec-ause I believe in the qualities of my class, I want to serve you in the best way possible--as your represen- tative. Allow your voice to be heard through SAM WHITE. He believes in you. *VOTE. dividual dorms, are steps in tlle right direction to strengthening communication between Union's students and their government. If elected Senior Represen- tative, I would encourage and initiate actions being taken by the Forum to put students on the same wave length as their government. After having already attended numerous Forum meetings this year, 01 there is no doubt in my mind ~ that this is one of the most f- important issues facing the a:: Forum at the present time. >- .0 o Your support in tomorrow's 0 election will be rewarded with '§. competent and sincere representation on the Forum. ' Ill c: :c .a 0 a:: Q.l > ~ en >- .0 0 0 s::. Q

CONCORDI'ENSIS, Januory 16. 1984 P(lge 5 ProfessorS React Continued from page 1 up with the extended two week spring break, but would also be.. shortened by three weeks. · The \nonstop'' twenty-three week period, according to D'Andrea, is undesirable to faculty and. students. Morris said both are \fundamentally tired'' by the end of that stretch. SWTC Criticized A. major criticism of the SWTC stems from its effect on the terms abroad program. According to Professor William Thomas, who serves as director of this program, many of the overseas terms Union now offers would be, for all significant purposes, unaf- fected, while . others have the potenti~l to disappear from the curriculum. · Terms in France., Italy, Germany and Austria could continue without major change. The winter term in Spain ·would be affected by a split term here,. but Thomas believes the Spain program can probably be moved to spring term. The winter Israel program would be \no problem,\ as long as students don't mind being away for the holidays. Housing arrangements for students on the Greece· program could present a problem, and Thomas is ''almost 100 percent positive that we cannot move Greece to the spring.\ The SWTC could have a strong negative impact on the two fall English programs. The York Exchange, which does not end until about December 10, could disappear under the proposed calendar, Thomas said, since this date is ten days to two weeks into winter term. This program would not be feasible in the spring, Thomas . contends, due to the ·English vacation 'Schedule. D'Andrea and Underwood .have more .positive thoUghts ou the matter. The vice president suggests. that Union could ac- comodate the five students in the York program by allowing them to start the winter term later. This modification, he said, could be implemented with a little effort on the part of individual professors. Underwood reminds that York is its present form is not ideal. Union students in the program, which is. on the semester system, now must cut the semester five weeks short and' take exams,. while the . English students complete their term. D'Andrea believes students lose the full impact '!)f the curriculum under its. present form. Underwood suggested the program be lengthened to two terms~ The Bath program could continue, Thomas said., but only if teachers can be found. The schedule of the term would change, and the. feature of a course with regular English students would be eliminated. '~'I'o .my mind, the biggest problem with the SWTC is the terms abroad program,\ D'Andrea commented. \This is a unique feature of Union and we should preserve it as much as possible.'' He does believe, however, that with \clever modifications\ and \a little give on our side,\ the issu,e can be worked out. \The assump- tion that terms abroad would be destroyed is ludicrous,\ Underwood said. Some members of the campus community react ap- prehensively to. the thought of a . ''split winter term.\ Dr. Har- Visiting Lamont Professor Geoffrey Ashe man Dtinathan, of Hobart and William Smith University, suggests making the three week period before Christmas a ''unit in itself,\ ending with an exam or an assignment. Hobart and William Smith has used the SWTC f9r some years, and has reportedly been satisfied with it. The school switched to the Union calendar for one year, disliked it, and immediately returned to the SWTC. \There is nothing inherently wrong with a. split,\ believes Daniels. ''I don't think that it would be disruptive to the education process. We would still have two terms as usual with the complete run.\ St~C;lents have expressed concern that the split term would give professors an op- portunity to give large assignments ov:er the holidays, but Daniels doesn't see this break used by instructors \{ls a chance to cram in extra work.\ Underwood, who worked on the first draft of the CUE report, said \We do not want to have a calendar that encourages major assignments over vacations. Individual (professors) may do it, but that is not the intent of the committee.\ D'Andrea \would like to give the SWTC a shot,\ stressing that Union could return to its present system if things don't work out. Thomas cautipns, however, that we cannot make major changes in the terms· abroad program one year, and then reverse them later. \We just can't expect people abroad to make this accomodation,\ he said. At the present time, the four divisions of the .college are split 2~2 op the idea, with each Geoffrey By EMILY LOOSE Staff Last. Thursday night, visiting Lamont Professor Geoffrey Ashe lectured on the burial site of the legendary King Arthur and showed slides of the ex- tensive excavations of alleged Arthurian castles in the Cad- bury and G loustenberry _English countryside. These events remind us of repQrtS lam term of a distinct, mysterious imprint of the Shroud of Turen at St. Clare's. Accounts of the carbon dating of the alleged Ark Phone Committee Formed By SARAH CALDERINI Staff For the past year, Union's administration has been in• vestigating alternatives to our present Centrex telephone system. Although \a number of groups are lobbying for reconsideration of the Centrex ruling by the . FCC,\ (Administrator, December 5, 1983) Union still has a problem to solve. \We have been in contact with other colleges to see' what they are doing,'' said Diane Winkler, · Assistant Affirmative Action Officer and Facilities-Telephone Coordi· natot. Many colleges are in the midst of investigating the same problem; should we or should we not maintain the current telecommunication system? Special Committee The Union administration has unofficially formed a special committee to evaluate the needs of the College and to , determine the best possible solution. Eveh though the committee members have not been spec.ifically named, Winkler says that there will be representatives from the ad- ministration, faclllty, student affairs and staff. \We hope to get a good composite of the college campus and a good mix of expertise,\ she said. Also, student opinions will be taken into consideration. . The College hopes to get the committee formally started in February. It will then meet to perform an in·depth study of the problem. Centrex rates are anticipated to increase for most customers in the near future. Because of this. probability, the Union administration has held many meetings with American Tela- hone and Telegraph (ATT) and New York Telephone. However, this is a complicated problem and it requires . a substantial amount of .planning. In addition to keeping up to date on FCC rulings, the College intends to hire art external telecommunication consulting service. The firm will help the special committee to analyze !the technical and functional needs of the College. It will make a recommendation and help to plan a feasible solution. \We will look very carefully at . possible alternatives and weigh the pros and cons of each,, says Winkler. The College realizes the cost impact on both the students and the administration and is doing its best to ease the situation. It hopes to make a decision within the next two years. Ideally, the Union administration will have made the final deciSion by the summer of 1985. *NEWS* *WRITERS* *NEEDED* Professor William Thomas of the Modern Languages Department division's vote showing a definitive stance. The Engineering and Social Science divisions favor the SWTC, while Humanities and the Sciences remain opposed. The opinions of· ad- ministrators remain varied as well, and some have deferred taking a firm stand until more faculty and student input is obtained. Daniels describes his obje~tive as \making sure tbat aU sectors of the college are aware of the proposal and· its prospective impact on their programs,.'' but added \periodically it's nice to change, as long as you're not doing damage.\ Thomas maintains he is, not opposed to a change with clear benefits, but, in regard to the SWTC, asks \why do something that gives us no advantage?\ President Morris intends to reach a decision on .the proposal during the spring term, by which time he will have received . input from several sources. He expects to make a determination that will provide ''the most benefit for tl:ie IIlost people.\ The student forum and elections committee will con- duct a poll to elicit student opinion next Tuesday, from 8 amuntil5 pm, in Carnegie Ifall. \ Two Opposing Sides Until a final decision is made, the two opposing positions are best noted by Thomas and Underwood. In Thomas' eyes, ~'I've yet to see the pedigogical advantage of a split winter tbat outweighs the costs in the term abroad--particularly the English programs.\ Underwood believes the concern is exaggerated. \'To me the Union calendar as it exists promotes what I would call a frantic approach to education,\ he said. \That element :is eliminated with a semester system. Short of that it seems to me the SWTC makes the three- term system more tolerable.\ Ashe Lectures of the Covenant and the discovery of the Ark of Noah on a mountain top somewhere in Tibet can also be recalled. Such carbon dating and excavation seemed to. contradict the very nature of the legend or the concept of faith in Christianity or religion in general. Should we test the myths and religions of our society or is there meaning or value for our society found in tbeir suspeusion of reality rather than their basis in reality? Is our society perhaps taking itself too seriously, losing a sense of the mystical or superhwnan possibility of life? Or, rather, is this historical pursuit of myth indicative of the very urgency and importance of such myths as the legend of King Arthur to our society? Perhaps we pursue their historical reality not out of disbelief.-but out of a desire to believe. These questions were raised when Ashe detailed the Medieval discovery of a deep tomo propored to be that of the legendary King Arthur, the \once and future king\ of Camelot. As several recent articles point out and as Ashe, the author of eighteen books, eight concerning British legend, confirms, over approximately the past twenty years mythology has oome back into vogue. Ashe, a native to England, though . well acquainted with America ov.er many decades, observes this recent popularity of myth as a largely American phenomena. He noted that the castles which spot tbe English countryside are of relatively little interest to the English. He suggests tllat invented mythologies such as that developed by J .R.R. Tolkein In \The Lord of the Rings\ trilogy can account for much of this popularity. Various other writers suggest, in addition, that the recurrence of mythological stories and figures in American culture, such as the Star Wars saga and Raiders of the Lost Ark, are symptomatic of an increasingly urgent desire for a kind of Camelot life. The popularity of myth in our present society may indicate a sense of stagnation or a frustration of ideals. Certainly this revival of myth in America corresponds with the idealism of the politics during the sixties and the Beatnik generation. Indeed the sixties have been somewhat mythologized in our culture as Kent State has become heroic, Kennedy increasingly im- mortalized, and Woodstock and Selma made modern crusades. In the words of Ashe we feel \there's got to be something better than this.'' The role myth plays in a society has been hypothesized variously. Jung interpreted my.th as a metaphor for the psychology of a society; various societies' myths corresponding then to their various values and senses of frustration. The particular appeal of the K.ing Arthm legend to contemporary American society lies perhaps ·in its promise of preemminent prosperity, the return of the \once and future king.\ If. the image of Camelot, which surrounds this myth can ac- count for its special appeal, then perhaps, as Ashe proposes, the actual historical roots of the legend, however exaggerated or obscme they are; account for the legend's durability. Even while we engage in fantasy, we like our fantasy firmly grounded in fact.

Page 6 CONCORD/t.'NSJ.~: Januan 16, 1984 . FEATURES· Pn•f Thurston, Chairman of Hist-ory Dept., organi.zing a term a brood' to Japan. Sail and Sea at Mystic By DAVID FITZGERALD Features Editqr Among the many op- portunities that Union students have to spend aterm away from .campus, 'The Williams College Mystic Seaport. program in American Maritime Studies is included. This is a full semester program in which students spend 13 weeks taking courses at Mystic Seaport and 2 weeks actually at sea. The two weeks at sea are spent on a schooner in which the students must do laboratory work and act as the crew. Besides being a very good opportunity to experience the sea, the students involved in the program get to know each other very well on the schooner. Terln Abroad to Japan· The program is designed to provide students with an un- derstanding of our relationships with the sea in the past, the present and the future. The courses that are given attempt to provide a focus on our relationships with the sea in · many -aspects.g-hlstorical, literary, artistic, political, econom-ic., and scientific. Mystic Seaport.founded in 1929, provides, a good place to study and is a very valuable ex- perience, Beside_s taking classes and traveling on the sea Collins also had to work on developing a maritime skill. Collins chose to learn how to build a boat. He helped to build a 16 foot all-wood boat. other skills that one can learn are celestial navigation and small- boat handling. Currently Collins is attempting to interest other Union students in the Mystic Seaport program. He hopes tbat his enthusiasm for the program · will interest other Union students in participating. · One student who went on the program in the Spring of '83 says that the program is \Fantastic.\ Anyone that is interested in the program can conta~t Scott Collins or Dean By DIANE DUFFY Staff · A unique and exciting op- portunity exists for students contemplating a term abroad during their stay at Union College. Professor Thurston, of the History Department, and the Terms Abroad Office are in the initial stages of arranging a term abroad to the Kansai University of Foreign Studies in Osaka, Japan for the fall of 1964. In the past, a nwnber of students from Union have at- tended universities in Japan on an independent basis. As a result of the positive response of these students, as well as in- creasing interest from the students here, Union College would like to include Japan among their many programs abroad, which already include such culturally diverse places as Greece, Germany, Italy and England. .. .~ Professor Thurston feels that the program in Japan would be a marvelous experience for all students involved. Kansai University is located near Kyoto and Nara, the cultural and religious centers of traditional Japan, as well as Osaka, which is the industrial heartland of modern Japan. The location is further enhanced by the relatively low cost of living in the area. In the last number of years, Kansai University has expanded their international program in cooperation with several colleges and univer- sities. To date, approximately 1200 students from other lands have participated in the 805 Eastern Ave • 382·1896 Open daily 11·9 p.m. Monday, Tuesdoy closed program and the universit~ currently has arrangements for the exchange of students with forty-two institutions hf higher learning in the United' States. The program itself is fifteen weeks long, beginning in Sep- tember and ending around midQ December. Students attending the university would live with a Japanese family and attend special classes with other foreign students. 1\ study of the Japanese language would be required for five, fifty minute hours a week to further the students' understanding of the culture, as well as acquaint them with the Japanese manner of thinking. In addition to the language, students will be mandated to take three other courses from a selection of fourteen, which included such varied subjects as Japanese Psychology, Buddhism, Modern Japanese History, and Modern Japanese Economy. The courses, which center on both Japan and East Asia\ will be taught in English by either a Japanese professor or a visiting professor from a foreign in- stitution. Several field trips have also been incorporated into the program. These trips are designed to b.roaden the students' understanding and interest in the culture and may indude trips to see ancient tombs in Asuka, mountain temples in Nara, a zen temple, and musemns in Kyoto. Travel is convenient and safe as Japan is known to have the safest cities in the world. Most famous of Polish foods to take out or to eat in. Everyth i n.g made from scratch at \Hanka\: soups, sausage, pierogi, potato pancakes, Pol ish hunter's stew, wonderful desserts, even hot cocoa made like your grandma used to do it. Homemade • Delicious • Different • Inexpensi-ve M.c==)l>iKM==•~II'C'=:::XNN :=1· R~~~!~i!~~.RN n < 1 block north of Nott st. Entrance ~U· to Utnion College) Union College *WINTER SPECIALS* ~ Monday Nites Wednesday n Genny Cream Nites U In addition to their regular courses, students will have the opportunity to partake in several cultural activities. These clubs encourage friend- ships between foreign and Japanese students, and en- compass such diverse activities as judo, karate, kendo (Japanese fencing), flower arran.ging, pottery making, calligraphy, and shakuhachi (Japanese flute). Almost all Japanese students belqng to a club, and devote as much time and energy to it as they would to a regular class. ~ • < • :-'-'' ... ~-- ,. ,, • J ! • . ·. / c 0 :;:;: .!!! u 0 II) \' <1: 'c 0 ... ro ·u :::l '0 w ro ·Q) (/') >- .0 ~ 0 '.C 0. Union College students in- terested in the term abroad at Kansai University in Japan will either be required or strongly encouraged to take Modem Japanese History, taught by Professor Thurston as a prerequisite. As With other programs a broad, all financial aid will apply and at least three full credits would be given for the term. The program is ~ exceptional opportunity for students who are interested in Japan and in broadening their cultural experience. Further· infonnation on the term to Japan may be obtained from Professor Thurston or in the Terms Abroad Office. During the Mystic Seaport semester students spend 12 days aboard the schooner Westward. the sea because it is now the nation's leading maritime museum. At the Mys_tic Museum is the only remaining wooden whaling ship in the , world. Scott Collins, a junior who just completed the fall . '83 Mystic Seaport term, feels that the program is very interesting Haircut I Design Waxing Perms Make-Up Daniels for more information: Because Union College is a participating college irt the program there really is no trouble recieving credit for the work that you do. The deadline for applying is approaching qlli.ckly, so anyone that is in- terested should act soon. Colour Body Wraps Facials Nail Lengt·hening Our designers have been trained by S,ASSOON of London and JINGLES6 N.Y.(:. • ~' j. I ' > _, ... ', • 1.,,. ' pitchers $l.SO Bud & Miller Lite .··. drafts 25¢ ~ our \famous\ Pitchers $2.00 chili 50(: off all n dogs- 50¢ mixed dr·inks U plu: fr::ool..-= p~us fr~e sn:cksJ Gooding .Skln Systems 322 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 1 ... .,.,. ... .... .l • .. c • f a ( c ' i ( + ( .1: c

c:: 0 +; .!!! u 0 ., If) o::r: c:: 0 += 10 u :::l '0 l1J 10 QJ 'J) > 0 e 0 c:: 0. CONCOllDIENSIS, January 26, 1984 Page7 FEATURES Board Tours Far East By PETER MOHR Staff During thls past December, Joseph Board; Robert Porter Patterson, professor of government, participated in a lecture tour of the Far East. His 17 day 'itinerary took him .to Thailand, South Korea, and Japan. , Board had originally been invited by a Japanes·e universitf in Tokyo to give a lecture on . the university's . campas. The university, however, learned of the \American Participants' Program\ from the American embassy in Tokyo. The United States. information Agency, which sponsor~ this program, informed Board that if he would consent to extending his journey to include Thailand and South Korea, the entire tour would be underwritten by the agency. Board agreed · with no hesitation. > ,;,(. If) b ..... 10 [Q c:: 0 ..., > .0 0 ... 0 J:: 0. The professor first flew on a most cases Board was able to speak in English. If most of the members ef the audience were not fluent in E'ngHsh, in- terpreters were llSed. . people of other nations. Board plans to write the book in coQ:junction with a professor from Japan and with another from Ox:ford University in England. Professor Board thoroughly en~oyed his tour of the Orient and looks forward to the day when he Will be able to return. Terry Weiner, Chairman of ~ociolog.y Dept. just back from a tour of the Mideast · Throughout his tour Board: experienced '\extraordinary hospitality\ on the part of both the American personnel in- volved and his Asian hosts. In Korea several of tbe professors whom he had met took him to dinner in order to sample authentic Korean cuisine. Following <:ustom, Board Weiner Reftects Upon Mideast removed his ·shoes and sat on a By BETSY TREITLER bare heated flooi· before a low Staff table. He described the food as Israel's continuing existence \very good.\ ·- reflects the strength within the Whenever Board met with state to withstand the pressures people after the lectures, the of dissent and war in the Middle conversation usually centered East. Israel is a prime target on'American politics; he was for outside forces and suffers asked .few questions on his life from internal· economic and in the United States. The political instabilities. There is Koreans in particular were growing tension between the interested in quality of life more religious and the refer- issues. The rapid growth- of med.Nevertheless, most Israeli many of Korea's industries citiZens retain the .common during the past few year~ has interest of keeping Israel alive; Their success is a most remarkable feat. · In fact, criminals are tried according to Jordanian laws. lsraeli intervention only oc~urs in cases which concern military law; Members-of the Organization for Academicians, who sponsor research of Middle East culture and policy, seek a greater understanding of Middle Eastern peoples and their in· terrelations. Professor Weiner, a!()ng with the group, toured Israel particularly stopping near the Syrian and Lebanese borders, the Golan Heights, and through the West Bank area. They also visited the Tel Aviv University Center for Strategic Studies. They spoke with mayors, specifically of Arab- Israeli areas, leaders of the Israeli Knesset and Labor Party as well as scholars and inhabitants. They, in essence, were on a mission to the Middle East to \fact find\ for, Professor Weiner indicated, the organization is non-partisan and advocates no specific solution for Middle East unrest. as, a homeland. A group of AFabs who are Israeli citizens support a Palestinian homeland but !believe Israel should with- draw to the borders outlined in 1967. They do have some claims against Israel. Weiner noted, however, they refrain from terrorist acts. The third group, Palestinians on the West Bank, accept the concept of the homeland but want the West Bank returned and withdrawal of Israeli occupation in the area. Weiner indicated that advocators of this perspective would sapport the Camp David Accords and the Reagan Initiative. These people are considered to be \more moderate,\ Weiner learned; ''There is a greater willingness to be pragmatic and flexible\ among coexistent Arabs and Israelis. There is, however, a significant \concern for ass!lssination.\ Weiner suggested that perhaps this fear is most influential on Middle Eastern politics. Prof. Board spent our l.ast vacation lecturing in the Far East Professor Weiner, Chairman of the Sociology department, after two weeks in Israel with other members of the American Professors for Peace in the Middle East, suggested that perhaps the ''normalcy of everyday life\ is a most .fascinating facet of the site of controversy. He intimated that he expected to ''walk the streets and constantly be reminded\ of the turmoil. Yet, there is hardly indication of military oc- cupation other than at key roadways, strategic points and at the bomb shelters at the Lebanese border. Even the Syrhtn :l)orcfer appears peaceful, remarked the Professor. Further, Arab- Israeli citizens in areas such as Naqlus exist, lead and enf()rce laws in their customary ways. Three distinct Palestinian perspectives regarding the perpetuation of Israel as a homeland were intimated in lectures delivered to and discussions with Professor Weiner. Weiner recalls the Palest.inian Liberation Organization who denounce any recogpiti\Qn of the state of Israel The current belief of Israeli leaders, Weiner notes, is . that territories on the West Bank of tile Jordan River are strategic bases. Professor Weiner in- t~IIlates that perhaps if Palestinians refrained from viol'Cnce and concentrated with willingness and interest on negotiation there would be ua e:reater flexibility on the part of Israel. He continued to suggest that I:srael is quite concerned with strategy as opposed to 11 desire to control areas such as Syria or Lebanon. 26-hour flight to Bangkok, Thailand. In Bangkok Board spoke before the facu1ty of law . at Thama~sat University. The topic of his lecture was \RUle of Law,\ which concerned the laws by which people govern themselves as well as the \' consistency of the application of such laws. After spending a few days in Bangkok, Board flew to Seoul, South Korea. In that nation he lectured at American Cultural Centers located in Seoul; Taegu, Pusan and Kwang-ju. The subjects covered at these talks included \Social and Philosophical Contexts of Western Conceptions of Law and Politics,\ and \Quality of Life Issues in American Politics.\ Having completed his tour of South Korea, Board traveled to Tokyo. In Japan he presented papers in Tokyo and in Fukuoka, a city located in the southern part of the country. In Tokyo, Board spoke three times at Sophia University. The su\)jects discussed included: \American Foreign Policy,\ ''Swedish Politics,'' and \Liberalism Neo-Conserva- tism and the WeUare State.\ In all three countries Board's audience consisted primarily of \' university students and faculty, · although journalists and civil servants were occasionally present. The assemblies before him contained anywhere from eight to on~hundred people. In Friday .5 Happy Hour 4-8 p.m. SLA,PSHOTS ~25, Drafts . 9 5~ Mixed Dtinks created problems which the country would not have had to consider otherwise. These prqblems include en- vironmental pollution and the \loss of fac&to·face relation- ships.\ Generally, Boanl found Koreato be fascinating because of its recent dynamic growth. He mentioned that sections of downtown Seoul resemble Manhattan. Board was thoroughly im- pressed by Japan and its people. The professor noted, \The most pleasant experience I had was ·in discovering essentially how courteous people were in that part of the world ... especially in Japan.\ Board attributes .this feature to· the Japanese culture itself; courtesy is not a quality which could easily be transferred to another nation. Boar<l also found the high literacy rate of the Japanese amazing. ThiS is especially remarkable when the complexity of the Japanese alphabet is considered. The professor credited the high degree of literacy to the in- tensity of the Japanese educational sy~em. Boatd also spent some time · sightseeing. He found the city of. Kyoto, the old imperial capitol of Japan, to be fascinating. Many of the city's historical buildings and temples have .survived, creating a very \picturesque'; town. Through his tour Board feels that he has gained invaluable knowledge which he can share with his s~lldents. This is npt the type of knowledge which can be had from,tex.tbooks. Board has also become interested in starting a tenn .abroad in Japan. He is currently developing this program with several other professors of the College. 'l'he journey also stimulated his interest in writing a book on the govern- ment of the United States for l,ssue of· the Issue By JUDI PHILIPSON S1aff In what ways do you think that the fraternity system can be improved upon? · Larry Shapiro '84, Zeta Beta Tau: \One of the main problems is that the fraternities are not integrated into the main stream of campus activity. If fraternities lent themselves more to the campus, it would really better Union . . . \ Ken Tallering- '84, Phi Gamma Delta: \I think the social life would be improved upon if the fraternities weren't such a basis. There should be a fee · paid at parties • . . . 'Ibe campus entertaimnent should be more exciting ... I don't think -it is right that people are scorned upon who don't want to join fraternities. It'S just not 'ght. ' . r1 ... John Casale '84, Phi Delta Theta: \ ... as. for the school's policy on rush, I would like to see an earlier rush in the fall term, because that's when the freshman are looking around. At the beginning of the term there is more time for conM sideration of different frater- nities ... \ \.J. Balley '84, Sigma Phi: \. . . students should definitely have to pay for parties, but I think there should be a green card, free slip for all frater- nities and sororities .on campus. . . • Also, the s(!hool shouldn't mandate rush. There should be both a formal and informal system-·if people are liked, they sh(Hlld be invited back, in- formally to the house ... \ Sean Gilligan '84, Phi Sigma Kappa; \ ... I am pleased with the fraternity system. In nature, nothing works per- fectly. The IFC is good in dealing with the fraternities. It creates a liason between the administration and the students--but there is still headway to be made and inroads to be travelled. We shDtdd be treated as equals with the administration. We need theiiJ., and they need us . . . ' Dave Ventura '84, Delta Phi: ''I don't see any need for im- pr()vement in the system.\ Dave Fredericks '84, Sigma Chi: \ •.. I think there should be a tighter bind among all the · fraternities. The social life bas definitely gone down hill since my fres~an year. Each in- dependent fraternity should ilnprove their own- F'or instance, at parties ·drllllken people should be gotten rid of-less violence and more 'invite only' parties ... ~~ A. dam Storke '84, Chi Psi: \ .. some fraternities aren't conducive for parties; some fraternities just have more .space for better parties . . . but, I d<m't think that people should have to pay ... that's no way out. Also, to improve the system, the IFCshould have more equal representation of students-- from different fraternities in the col1IlcU . . .... \ Tile trip to Israel was a first for Professor Weiner and certainly helped him to further his personal interest in the Middle East situation. In retrospect he believes he has learned a great deal about Israel and the attitudes of :Middle Eastern peoples. Consequently, he gained insight into the \dynamics of conflict, peDple and human relations and conflict resolution.\ Professor Weiner realizes how his ex- perience will enhance his sociology courses, particularly discussions dealing with political, social and race relations. \Israel Weiner remarks, \is a complex, pli.iralistic nation\ and to un- derstand it certainly reveals a great deal about sociological dilemmas. 1 '1ssue of the Issue\ is not meant to be a thorough study of the opinions of Union students. Rather it is a random survey and the opinions expressed in it are the opinions of the . students questioned. A consensus of the opinions of Union students is neither sought nor should be extrapolated from the text •.

. . ., . l'u;:e 8 l'ONCORDJt:NSI!..: J«n~ary 26, /98J <1L111tfllrbirnsis FounJ,J al I lmon Collect · 1877 ------------ ------~--- No Rush For A FoUrth At a time when most students don't seem to want to take the time to ''getinvolved,\ it is too bad that those who do are_n()t always given the opportunity. A group of Union women who would like ·to start a fourth sorority on campus have recently had their proposal rejected by the Panhellenic Council. The Panhellenic Council voted against a new sorority at Union, partly because they feel that there is just not enough interest. The Council seems to have arrived at this conclusion due to the fact that only four women did not receive bids during the fall rtish. However, 75 women interested in a new sorority at- tended a meeting last spring. Obvt.ously, there are many women at Union interested IH 1 Joining a sorority. Their interests, however, seem to go beyond the scope of the three sororities presently in existence. Another reason the Panhellenic Council gave for rejecting a new sorority was that the Administration could not guarantee housing. They feel that because of this the new sorority would be at a disadvantage compared with the three sororities now housed on campus. The women interested in a fourth sorority are aware of this problem, yet it has not decreased their enthusiasm nor their efforts. The Panhellenic Council is comprised o£ sisters from Delta Delta Delta, Delta Gamma and Sigma Delta Tau. Perhaps the reasoning behind their rejection of a fourth sorority is due to their interest in protecting the security of their own houses. Possibly they are not fairly considering the needs and interests of all Union women. Traditiopally known as the \Mother of Frater- nities,\ Union offers its men a wide variety of houses to choose from. However, women have a right to just as much diversity as men. Limited to only three houses, this is unfortunately not the situation Union women now face. The opportunity to choose the right house is one which every individual should be offered. More than a decade ago, women were admitted to Union for the first time. We have come a long way since then, but we still have a long way to go. It is ironic that it is women who are preventing a more equal representation of sororities in the Greek system at Union. We encourage the Panhellenic Council to take a second look at the present sorority system and reevaluate the needs of women on this campus. We also hope that the women behind the new sorority will not be discouraged by its recent rejection. Instead, they should keep trying, in hope that Union will one day offer a Greek system which is fair to both men and women. ELECTIONS for Freshman & Senior ~epresentatives to the Student Forum Friday, January 27 8 a.m. - 4 p.m. Carnegie Hall please bring student I.D. *VOTE* LETTERS How To Save $500 To the Editor: Like cleath and taxes, an increase in our tuition bill every year appears inevitable. With its high dependency upon tuition revenues, most of us un- derstand why the college must pass along part of its increased costs to studen~s and their families. We may .not be able to stop next year-'s tuition rise; but we can do something to make sure that the state picks up its fair share of our increased costs. . A bill, now before both houses of the Legislature in Albany, would increase the number of students who will be eligible for grants und·er New York's Tuition Assistance Program (TAP). And the same bill will increase the am(')unt of TAP grants by $500 for most present TAP recipients who return to college next year. The bill, called TAP Parity, passed the State Senate last year. It has the .support of the State Board of Regents and- is being pushed on every . in~ dependent campus in · New York. Ten years ~go the' maximum TAP grant tepres·ented 6(1 percent of the weighted average tuition at private independent colleges. Today it is down to 37 percent. In i974 a family income of $20,000 or less made you eligible for TAP. To have kept pace with inflation, that eligibility level should now be $40,000, not the $25,000 limit of the present law. There is much needed to be done for this campaign. We ate looking for volunteers with ideas and dedication to this cause. If• you can give TAP Parity a little {)f your tinle, please come to the Independent Student Coafition (ISC) organizational meeting. at 3:30 p.Jll. 911 Monday, January 30~ in Strauss Lounge,·Oarnegie Hall. If you.cannottnake the meeting and are interested, contact Steve Benson at 381•9534 or mail your name and phooenumber to box 235. · . With your help we can cut $500 from your next year's college bill. That's a pretty good return on your investment. . Steven Benson '85 . ISC Representative Winthrop Thurlow '84 Student Fornm Presid~nt Working Toward An Improved WR{JC To the Editor: WRUC ... Schenectady, \The Oldest Station in the Nation,\ deserves to be a showcase for all college radio stations. The Executive Board of WRUC has dedicated itself to making our college radio station the very best it can be. We hope to motivate our many DJ's, newscasters and technicians to dedicate themselves to helping · create a new and more dynamic WRUC for Union College, and now with our power increase, for the entire Capital District. The Administration has also joined in on this plan to improve our station as President Morris has appointed a WRUC Advisory Committee, made up of administrators, faculty and students, to work With. the Executive Board with the· hope of making it the showcase it so · deserves to be. The Committee, chaired by Dean Massa, will meet with the station'.s Executive Board weekly and, \engage in a creative e~change of ideas concerning the station's accomplishments and future direction.\ The stations reputation has slipped over the past number of years and this too must be turned around .. A student should be proud of their college station. ·Both the Advisory Committee and the entire Executive B()ard hope \to work with the 'Whole campus community with;_ the final goal of making every stulfent at Union proud of WRUC and its offerings. Exe(!utive. Board meetings. are held each Thur- sday ,night at a. p.m. in the station~s studio J()unge. We invite all interested students to attend arid joih in on . Olll' program for an improved WRUC. . Scott Wykoff General Manager WRUC A Message To The Free World To the Editor: I have many reasons for writing this letter. One being that I believe in the words of William Jones who said: \The greatest discovery of our generation is that human beings, by changing the inner attitudes of theit minds, can change the outer aspects of their lives.\ A person needs fresh thoughts and ldea:s to keep his own mind fresh. And in order to make change, he needs to be exposed to people who can offer him those new ideas. I am a prisoner presently being confined .. to the Great Meadows Correctional Facility in Comstock, New York. I have been a prisoner for seven years. Incarceration can be stagnating for anyone. There are few outlets for anything positive; and few opportunities for change. There is seldom a break in routine. This letter is a request for those an1ong you who have a free moment to write a letter or send a card, fOI' those of you who can impart to me those things in the world that I have been missing for seven years; About myself: I am 28 years of age, 5'7\ tall and I weigh 152 lbs. I enjoy music and books of all kinds; I also sing a little .. I like to take good care of myself so I work out daily. I enjoy track and field, football, baseball and handball. My name is wardell but my friends call me \Dell.\ In closing, I wish to say that all those who answer will only get the sincerest respect from me because whatever you share with me of your life will only give more meaning to mine• The rules concerning correspondence in thiS prJson state that each person an in- mate writes must complete a permission to corre~pond,. visit, and telephone form. Such forms will be sent to each person who responds to this letter. Please sign the form and return it to the address below. I cannot· return your letter until this form has been completed. Thank you! Sincerely, yolll's, Wardell Watson, Jr, No. 17.C519 Box 51 Comstock, NY 12821-0051 ( I l .I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I

PUJ!,I! 8 CONCORD/ENS/~~ Junuurr 26, 198./ <llllltfllrbtrnsis Fo~J .at I ln•on ('oil ret 187'7 ------------ ------~--- No Rush For A Fourth At a time when most students don't seem to want to take the time to \get involved,'' it is too bad that those who do are.not always given the opporbinity. A grotlp of Union women who would like to start a fourth sorority on campus have recently had their proposal rejected by the Panhellenic Council. The Panhellenic Council voted against a new sorority at Union, partly because they feel that there is just not enough interest. The Council seems to have arrived at this conclusion due to the fact that only fo11r women did not receive bids during the fall rush. However, 75 women interested in a new sorority at- tended a meeting last spring. Opvi.ously, there are many women at Union interested iff' joining a sorority. Their interests, however, seem to go beyond the scope of the three sororities presently in existence. Another reason the Panhellenic Council gave for rejecting a new sorority was that the Administration could not guarantee housing. They feel that because of this the new sorority would be at a disadvantage compared with the three sororities now housed on campus. The women interested in a fourth sorority are aware of this problem, yet it has not decreased their enthusiasm nor their efforts. The Panhellenic Council is comprised of sisters from Delta Delta Delta, Delta Gamma and Sigma Delta Tau. Perhaps the reasoning behind their rejection of a fourth sorority is due to their interest in protecting the security of their own houses. Possibly they are not fairly considering the needs and interests of all Union women. Traditionally known as the \Mother of Frater- nities,\ Union offers its men a wide variety of houses to choose from. However, women have a right to just as much diversity as men. Limited to only three houses, this is unfortunately not the sit11ation Union women now face. The opportunity to choose the right house is one which every individual should be offered. More than a decade ago, women were admitted to Union for the first time. We have come a long way since then, but we still have a long way to go. It is ironic that it is women who are preventing a more equal representation of sororities in the Greek system at Union. We encourage the Panhellenic Council to take a second look at the present sorority system and reevaluate the needs of women on this campus. We also hope that the women behind the new sorority will not be discouraged by its recent rejection. Instead, they should keep trying, in hope that Union will one day offer a Greek system which is fair to both men and women. LETTERS How To Save $500, To the Editor: Like death and taxes, an increase in our tuition bill every year appears inevitable. With its high dependency upon tuition revenues, most of us un- derstand why the college must pass along part of its increased costs to students and their families. We may not be able to stop next year's tuition rise, but we can do something to make sure that the state picks up its fair share of our increased costs. A bill, now before both houses of the Legislature in Albany, would increase the number of students who will be eligible for grants under New York's Tuition Assistance Program (TAP). And the same bill will increase the amount of TAP grants by $500 for most present TAP recipients who return to college next year. The bill, called TAP Parity, passed the State Senate last year. It has the support of the State Board of Regents and is being pushed on every in- dependent campus in New York. Ten years ago the max.imwn TAP grant represented 60 percent of the weighted average tuition at private independent colleges. Today it is down to 37 percent. In 1974 a family income of $20,000 or less ~nade you eligrble for TAP. To have kept pace with inflation, that el-igibility level should now be $40,000, not the $25,000 limit of the present law. There is much needed to be done for this campaign. We are lo()krng for volunteers with ideas and dedication to this cause. If you can give TAP Parity a little of your time, please come to the Independent Stadent Coalition ( ISC) organizational meeting at 3: 30 p.m .. on Monday, January 30, in Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall. If you cannot make the meeting and are interested, contact Steve Benson at 381-9534 or mail your name and phone number to box 235. With your help we can cut $500 from your next year's college bin. That's a pretty good return on your investment. Steven Benson '85 ISC Representative Winthrop Thurlow '84 Student Forum President Working Toward An Improved WRUC To the Editor: WRUC ... Schenectady, \The Oldest Station in the Nation,\ deserves to be a showcase for all college radio stations. The Executive Board of WRUC has dedicated itself to making our college radio station the very best it can be. We hope to motivate our many DJ's, newscasters and technicians to dedicate themselves to helping create a new and more dynamic WRUC for Union College, and now with our power increase, for the entire Capital District. The Administration has also joined in on this plan to improve our station as President Morris has appointed a WRUC Advisory Committee, made up of administrators, faculty and students, to work with the Executive Board with the hope of making it the showcase it so deserves to be. The Committee, chaired by Dean Massa, will meet with the station's Executive Board weekly and, \engage in a creative exchange of ideas concerning the station's accomplishr.nents and future direction.\ The stations reputation has slipped over the past number of years and this too must be turned around. A student should be proud of their college station. Both the Advisory Committee and the entire Executive Board hope to work with the whole campus community with the final goal of Inaking every student at Union proud of WRUC and its offerings. Executive Board meetings are held each Thur- sday night at 8 p.m. in the station's studio lounge. We invite all interested students to attend and join in on our program for an improved WRUC. . Scott Wykoff General Manager WRUC A Message To The Free World To the Editor: I have many reasons for writing this letter. One being that I believe in the words of William Jones who said: \The greatest discovery of our generation is that human beings, by changing the inner attitudes of their minds, can change the outer aspects of their lives. •' A person needs fresh thoughts and ideas to keep his own mind fresh. And in order to make change, he needs to be exposed to people who can offer him those new ideas. will be sent to each person who responds to this letter. Please sign the form and return it to the address below. I cannot return your letter until this form has been completed. Thank you! Sincerely,yours, Wardell Watson, Jr, No. 77C519 Box 51 Comstock, NY 12821..()()51 I am a prisoner presently ••••••••••••••••••••111111 1 being confined- to the Great ELECTIONS for Freshman & Senior Representatives to the Student Forum Friday, January 27 8 a.m. - 4 p.m. Carnegie Hall please bring student I.D. *VOTE* Meadows Correctional Facility in Comstock, New York. I have been a prisoner for seven years. Incarceration can be stagnating for anyone. There are few outlets for anything positive; and few opportunities for change. There is seldom a break in routine. This letter is a request for those among you who have a free moment to write a letter or send a card, for those of you who can impart to me those things in the world that I have been missing for seven years. About myself: I am 28 years of age, 5'7\ tall and I weigh 152 lbs. I enjoy music and books of all kinds; I also sing a little. I like to take good care of myself so I work out daily. I enjoy track and field, football, baseball and handball. My name is wardell but my friends call me \Dell.'' In closing, I wish to say that all those who answer will only get the sincerest respect from me because whatever you share with me of your life will only give more meaning to mine. The rules concerning correspondence in this pr.ison state that each person an in- mate writes must complete a permission to correspond, visit, and telephone fonn. Such forms I I ·' I I ~ l ' ~~ II I l ' ' 1 AI ' I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I l ' I l

- CONCORDIENSJS, Januorr 26, 1984 Page9 COMMENTARIES --~~--------------------·~.---------------- - Rape and Castration By RICHARD BlEGEN Last month, in an action wmch is statistically infrequent in our society, three South Carolina men were convicted of · rape. Faced with overwhelming evidence, the three men chose to plead guilty and throw themselves to the mercy of the court. To the chagrin of the defendants, and the amazement of the legal world, the judge handed down a most unusual sentence: the trio could choose between serving a thirty-year prison term or undergo surgical castration. The first reaction of .the defense was to appeal the sentence, on the grolinds that it is \cruel and unusual punish- ment.\ This doesn't seem to be wise, for if the appeal is suc- cessful, the prison sentence will likely remafu and the castration opti<)n eliminated, thus limiting the choices for the guilty par- ties. But if the appeal should fail and the sentence is allowed. to stand, it would set a .dangerous precedent for American jurisprudence; the res1llt of society's inability to address the problems of violence towards women. The sentence . is grossly inappropriate for several reasons: 1. Rape is not a SexUal Crfme it is· a violent criine. The fact that. rapists usually engage in some form of dubious sexual activity_ should. not. cloud ..the issue: rapists intend to dominate and humiliate, not satisfy anyone sexually: If society allows the courts to treat :rape as a sexual crime (as a ca;stration sentence does), it will · greatly set back efforts toward a national un- derstanding of the horrors of rape. As it stands now, most people have a poor notion of what the act of rape means. If .... ~ ..... ~ ... ~----...------1 f Commentaries: I I f represent the • '-views of ·the f author and not I the Editorial: . I B~ard of CON- 1 CORDIENSIS' I . . . • I L -·~- -------- ~~ ___ ._._,. we allow castration to be seen as a valid punishment for rape, then the attempts of con- .scjousness · ratsing .gro.u.ps ;portraying rape as a violent crime will he seriously deflected. z;· Castration is 11' barbar.lc form of retribution. In most. civ:U~ed nations, the concept of retribuUon as a legal doctrine has- long been discredited. Unfortunately, thisccount'ry has been moving in the opposite direction, especially under the Reagan Administration. In re(lent years,. the death -penalty (virtually unheard of in Western Europe) has been used with increasing frequency. The reasoning behind . legal retribution is .that criminals deserve to be subjected to their offenses. This .philosophy has been espoused in Moslem fundamentalist nations such as Iran, Saudi Arabia and The Sudan, where , criminals are castrated and have limbs amputated. It is clearly un- desirable .for tbe United States to endQrse such prehistoric methods of justice. . 3. Castration does not prevent the rapist from raping again. Contrary to popular belief, a c~tratedman is still capable of an erection (forJegal.plirposes, the definition of castration is tne surgical amputation of the testicles). He can still rape, and even without an erection, he can still rape. What tP.e court is considering is to allow a man with a histocy of violence and the ever-increasing frustrations that accompany castration, to walk the streets totally free. This man would be a walking time bomb, ready to explode at any time. By castrating,. the court doesn't prevent futw-e rape, it mcreases the likelihood of future rape and murder .as well. 4.Castration doesn't deal with the problem of rape. After the , rapist is castrated, where does that leave the victim? Besides the physical and ,psychological recovery that the victim must undergo, there is now the added · fear that the castrated rapist W;ill be out for revenge. The judgels decision creates more problems 'for the already overliurdened victim. The sentence tries to correct a nj.ajor problem with a simple answer, but ends up causing more problems, and does nothing for the victim. Furthermore, castrating a rapist will do nothing to prevent future :rapes (just as the death penalty does not deter murder). There will be sitnilar problems to the death. sentence, where a black persoJ;I. who kills a white person is far more likely to be executed than ~ white person who kills a blac.k. The sentence of castr~tlon, aside from its welcome show of moral outrage, ·offers no positive benef~ts at all_~ while creating numer,ous problems. If the legal community wants to co.rrect the problem of violen~e towards women, it shoUld abandon foolish ideas like Ci;tstration, and try instead to change the way society looks at the situation. First of all, rape should be viewed as the violen~ act that it is, and any attempt at sexual association should be abandoned. There should be law11 ,passed that would-give the victim dignity in the ~urtroom, and immunity from · harassment. Convicted rapist~ should not be allowed to leave prison without sufficient counseling, and repeat of- fenders should receive longer sentences. Most of all, the consciousness of society should be raised so that violence toward women is treated as a real problem and not a minor abberation. All CAMPUS POlL By The Student Forum WHY: To determine the students' opinion oB the proposed SPLIT WINTER_~ERM cal~ndar. . WHEN: Tuesday, January 31, 8 u.m.•S p.m. wHERE : Carnegie Hall ... State of Mind: A View From Ohio By NORMAN BIRNBACH Visiting ContrlbutoJ; I ain spending the year at Oberlin College. It's my junior year abroad, even though I'm going only as far as Ohio~ When I began explaining my decision to some friends, ·they stopped me. \Ohio--why are you going to Ohio?\ Well, I told them. It's what you do for an encore after Schenectady. \Norman they said, \you're a city kid. New York City. They don't have subways in Ohio.\ That was just ~nother reason to go. The farthest west I'd travelled to until then was East Orange, New Jersey. _ , Growing up in New York City, I cultivated an attitude that I had seen it all. Lee Marvin, Kurt Vonnegut, Carl Bernstein walking down the streets, una noticed, unobserved, for the most part, undisturbed; \Arthur\ and \Marathon Man\ being filmed; prostitutes hanging out in front of the blue unmarked hotel door that leads to their rooms; drug deals-it's no big d,eal at all. The variety of experiences I'd observed-the languages, the people: Yiddish on 47th Street, Chinese at Confucious Place, Spanish twelve blocks north of my apartment, German seven blocks south. Going to school in Ohio made me realize I haven't seen everything. Living there has changed ~Y <:mtlook in many , ways; ·at the very least, I can · now locate Ohio on the map. But there's more to it than that. I didn't go out there for a geography lesson. I went out there because I wanted to try something new. Oberlin College is very dif- ferent from Union. I am a liberal by ultraconservative Union's standards; at Oberlin, I'm a neo-fascist. By my third day there, I had met a Young Sparticist (a member of a communist youth league), a man from S.O.A.R. (Student Organization Against Racism), a \passive\ radical (I still don't know what that means}, and hundreds of vegetarians. When Timothy Leary spoke here last year, be called our generation ubland and boring,\ liow can a gemeration be bland and boring when it shows such diversity as oW's does? Going to Ohio· has broadened my perspectives. It is so easy to become unaware of one's blinders. I knew, as I was growing up, that there were people who lived outside of New York City, in suburbs. I'd seen \Leave It to Beaver\ and \My Three Sons.\ But it wasn't until I got to Union that I had the opportunity to become friends with people wilo actually had to take out the garbage (we just had to take it to the incinerator chute), mow the lawn (what lawn? } and carpool to school. It's a different lifestyle. Such is the case with Ohio. Going to Ohio has shown me where my blillders are, where my tunnel-vision is. Some things I took for granted, students at Oberlin questioned, ·-as I questioned some of what they took for granted. There are no guys and gil-ls at Oberlin, for instance~ only men and women. That's because the word \girl\ is derogatory t() adult females. I don't disagree with that; it's just I have tro11ble (as do many on campus, actually) calling contemporaries \men\ and \women.\ I don't think we . deserve it,. yet- There's more to Ohio than people at Union realize. In Ohio, there are telephones, elec- tricity, and running water; in fact, every eonvenience of modern life is available there. People don't really go cow- tipping there, cion 't drive pick- up trucks with shot guns slung in the back, and don't chaw tobacco .. Oberlin, Ohio is the residence for one of the few art restoration eenters in the U.S. And, in case anyone has forgotten: there aren't any subways inSchenectady, either. All letters to the editor must be· typed and received by Con- cordiensis ,before 3 p.m. each Tuesday before pubiicatlon. All letters 'must be signed· but names will be withheld upon request. IDOL 'w'HL, lN A FE\./ DAYS I'LL Ofi'!C\ALLY A Wf\10\JNC.E M'( Bill foil. +F ~EE.LEC.Tii:l:>, l'C I!.E Tilt:. OLDt.ST PRESll)ENT nus C.CONTR't' E VE.R. HAD •• , I GUESS 1 SHOUL 0 TR\' TO .. • is now accepting your: . --poetry - short fiction -photographs -drawings -.graphics Submit writing, name, phone number, box and description of art piece to: Box 2526 so we can get in touch with you. Dead I ine: March 4,-1984 il.EUEC.TlON. H M:MM, .• I WONt>E.R W\-IAT M'( C.ffANC:.tS AR.E'?I COME OFF A L 1TT\LE MO~I;. I

- s - J•i, .! l r:. I I I I j I J~~ :t,' A•- ' 1 '!. I I . ' I I (. l i li 11 ·t ! j \ ' I CONCORDIENS/S, January 26, 1984 Page 9 COMMENTARIES ------------------------------------------ Rape and Castration By RICHMD BmGEN Last month, in an action which is statistically infrequent in our society, three South Carolina men were convicted of rape. Faced with overwhelming evidence, the three men chose to plead guilty and throw themselves to the mercy of the court. To the chagrin of the defendants, and the amazement of the legal world, the judge handed down a most unusual sentence: the trio could choose between serving a thirty-year prison term or undergo surgical castration. The first reaction of the defense was to appeal the sentence, on the grounds that it is \cruel and unusual punish- ment.\ This doesn't seem to be wise, for if the appeal is suc- cessful, the prison sentence will likely remain and the castration option eliminated, thus limiting the choices for the guilty par- ties. But if the appeal should fail and the sentence is allowed to stand, it would set a dangerous precedent for American jurisprudence, the result of soCiety's inability to address the problems of violence towards women. The sentence is grossly inappropriate for several reasons: 1. Rape is not ~ sexUal crime it is a violent crime. The fact that rapists usually engage in some form of dubious sexual activity should not cloud the issue: rapists intend to dominate and humiliate, not satisfy anyone sexually. If society allows the courts to treat rape as a sexual crime (as a castration sentence does), it will greatly set back efforts toward a national un- derstanding of the horrors of rape. As it stands now, most people have a poor notion of what the act of rape means. If r---- ------- -- .... 1 Commentaries I I I I I I I represent the the • v1ews author the of and not: Editorial: I Board of CONa : CORDIENSIS. : L- -..------- ~---- _, we allow castration to be seen as a valid punishment for rape, then the attempts of can- sciousness raising groups portray,ing rape as a violent crime will be seriously deflected. 2. Castration is a' barbaric form of retribution. In 01ost civilized nations, the concept of retribuHon as a legal doctrine has long been discredited. Unfortunately, this country has been moving in the opposite direction, especially under the Reagan Administration. In recent years, the death penalty (virtually unheard of in Western Europe) has been used with increasing frequency. The reasoning behind legal retribuUon is that criininals deserve to be subjected to their offenses. This philosophy has been espoused in Moslem fundamentalist nations such as Iran, Saudi Arabia and The Sudan, where criminals are castrated and have limbs amputated. It is clearly un- desirabte for the United States to endorse such prehistoric methods of justice. 3. Castration does not prevent the rapist from raping again. Contrary to popular belief, a castrated man is still capable of an erection (for legal purposes, the definition of castration is the surgical amputation of the testicles). He can still rape, and even without an erection, he can still rape. What the court is considering is to allow a man with a ilistory of violence and the ever-increasing frustrations that accompany castration, to walk the streets totally free. This man would be a walking time bomb, ready to explode at any time. By castrating, the court doesn't prevent future rape, it increases the likelihood of future rape and murder as well. 4. Castration doesn't deal with the problem of rape. After the rapist is castrated, where does that leave the victim? Besides the physical and psychological recovery that the victim must undergo, there is now the added · fear that the castrated rapist will be out for revenge. The judge 1 s decision creates more problems for the already overburdened victim. The sentence tries to correct a rrj.ajor problem with a simple answer, but ends up causing more problems, and does nothing for the victim. Furthermore, castrating a rapist will do nothing to prevent future rapes (just as the death penalty does not deter murder). There will be similar problems to the death sentence, where a black person who kills a white person is far more likely to be executed than ~ white person who kHls a blac_k. The sentence of castration, aside from its welcdme show of n1ora;l outrage, offers no positive benefits at all, while creating numeJ;\ous problems. If the legal community wants to correct the problem of violence towards women, it should abandon foolish ideas like Cl;lstration, and try instead to change the way society looks at the situation. First of all, rape should be viewed as the violent act that it is, and any attempt at sexual association should be abandoned. There should be laws passed that would give the victim dignity in the c~urtroom, and immunity from harassment. Convicted rapist~ should not be allowed to leave prison without sufficient counseling, and repeat of· fender's should receive longer sentences. Most of all, the consciousness of society should be raised so that violence toward women is treated as a real problem and not a minor abberation. ALL CAMPUS POLL By The Student Forum w H Y : To determine the students' opinion on the proposed SPLIT WINTER.~ERM cah~ndar. WHEN: Tuesday, January 31, 8 a.m.-5 p.m. W H ERE : Carnegie Hall State of Mind: A View From Ohio By NORMAN BffiNBACH Visiting Contributor I ain spending the year at Oberlin College. It's my junior year abroad, even though I'm going only as far as Ohio. When I began explaining my decision to some friends, they stopped me. \Ohio-why are you going to Ohio?\ Well, I told them. It's what you do for an encore after Schenectady. \Norman they said, \you're a city kid. New York City. They don't have subways in Ohio.\ That was just another reason to go. The farthest west I'd travelled to until then was East Orange, New Jersey. . Growing up in New York City, I cultivated an attitude that I had seen it all. Lee Marvin, Kurt Vonnegut, Carl Bernstein walking down the streets, un- noticed, unobserved, for the most part, undisturbed; \Arthur\ and \Marathon Manu being filmed; prostitutes hanging out in front of the blue unmarked hotel door that leads to their rooms; drug deals-it's no big deal at all. The variety of experiences I'd observed-the languages, the people: Yiddish on 47th Street, Chinese at Confucious Place, Spanish twelve blocks north of my apartment, German seven blocks south. Going to school in Ohio made me realize I haven't seen everything. Living there has changed my outlook in many ways; at the very least, I can now locate Ohio on the map. But there's more to it than that. I didn't go out there for a geography lesson. I went out there because I wanted to try something new. Oberlin College is very dif- ferent from Union. I am a liberal by ultraconservative Union's standards; at Oberlin, I'm a neo·fascist. By my third day there, I had met a Young Sparticist (a member of a communist youth league), a man from S.O.A.R. (Student Organization Against Racism), a \passive\ radical (I still don't know what that means), and hundreds of vegetarians. When Timothy Leary spoke here last year, he called our generation \bland and boring.\ How can a generation be bland and boring when it shows such diversity as ours does? Going to Ohio has broadened my perspectives. It is so easy to become unaware of one's blinders. I knew, as I was growing up, that there were people who lived outside of New York City, in suburbs. I'd seen \Leave It to Beaver\ and \My Three Sons.\ But it wasn't until I got to Union that I had the opportunity to become friends with people who actually had to take out the garbage (we just had to take it to the incinerator chute), mow the lawn (what lawn? ) and carpool to school. It's a different lifestyle. Such is the case with Ohio. Going to Ohio has shown me where my blinders are, where my tunnel-vision is. Some things I took for granted, students at Oberlin questioned, as I questioned some of what they took for granted. There are no guys and girls at Oberlin, for instance, only men and women. That's because the word \girl\ is derogatory to adult females. I don't disagree with that; it's ju&t I have trouble (as do many on campus, actually) calling contemporaries ''men'' and \women.\ I don't think we deserve it, yet. There's more to Ohio than people at Union realize. In Ohio, there are telephones, elec- tricity, and running water; in fact, every convenience of modern life is available there. People don't really go cow- tipping there, don't drive pick- up trucks with shot guns slung in the back, and don't chaw tobacco. Oberlin, Ohio is the residen'ce for one of the few art restoration centers in the U.S. And, in case anyone has forgotten: there aren't any subways in Schenectady, either. All letters to the editor must be typed and received by Con- cordiensis .before 3 p.m. each Tuesday before pubt ication. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. IDOL \JELL, HJ A FEW DAYS I'LL OFF[CIALL'( AloiNOUNCIO MY Blb foil. !F 1'-EELEC. Tl: !>, !'tl BE THO. OLDE.ST PP.E.SIDENT !HIS COUNTRY EVE!>. HAD, •• I is now accepting your: -poetry - short ficti(Jn -photographs -drawings ---- graphics Submit wr.iting, name, phone number, box and description of art piece to: Box 2526so we can get in touch with you. Dead I ine: March 4, 19B4 RE HECTrOi'J. H MMM ••• 1 \.>JOI'JOER W\>IAT MV C.HANC.£.5 ARE?! Gu<.~S l SHOULD TRV TO (OMEOFF A LlTTLE MORE. YOUTHFUL FOR IH~ SPEEC.~ J

Page /0 CONCORD/ENS/:,~ iunuur.r 16; 198./ FEATUREs· Good Tours, Good Guides \Neither rain nor snow nor gloom of night shall stay these couriers from their appointed rounds,\ is the famous motto of the U.S. Postal Service. Yet on the Union College campus there is another organization for which this motto is very fitting, namely, the Union College Gatesmen. Almost every student at Union, at one time or another, has been given a tour rJf the campus by one of these t!pperclassmen who work in conjunction with the Mlmissions Office. Their primary task is, of course, leading guided tours of the campus for prospective ~.tudents and their families, thus acting as the first student contact for a prospective fresh- man. Gatesmen must be knowledgeable about Union and its surroundings, aFJd must portray an honest, yet positive, view of life at the college; for they are the people that will leave a lasting impression upon a prospective student. Selection to this honorary society will be held this winter term. Although all new Gatesmen are required to go through a series of orientation sessions in the spring in order to familiarize themselves with all aspects of the Union College community, a good general knowledge df the college is required. Prospective Gatesmen should also be en- thusiastic and outgoing, and be able to communicate well in a tour situation. Honesty and respect are also required of a Gatesman. Union is not perfect, yet a Gatesrnan should· be able to forthrightly answer questions about a deficiency at Union while telling how the college positively deals with such problems and at- tetnpts to solve them. Hespoqsibility is another key quality a Gatesman should possess. Each Gatesman is required to give an average of one tour per week, sometimes more, sometimes less. Since tours are given all year round, they must be prepared for any kind of weather and any size group. Since the Gatesmen work closely with the ad- missions staff, it is vital that tours go out on schedule. Potential Gatesmen must be willing to make this responsible commitment. This year the Gatesmen are seeking approximately 25 new members. All persons in· terested in becoming Gatesmen must fill out an application and be interviewed by members of the Gatesmen Selection Committee. There will be an optional informational meeting for all those interested in becoming Gatesmen ·on Feb. 1 at 7 p.m. in the banquet room in Carnegie Ball. AppHcations will be available at the meeting and in the Admissions and Student Activities offices. Applications are due by Feb. 10 in the Admissions Office, and in- terviews will take place Feb. '2().. 23. Applicants may sign up for an interview when handing in their applications. Anyone with questions should contact Charles Marchand in the . Admissions Office. Beware your killer may stillbestalking you. Story next weeK. \ Continue your interest Jn photography with Con~ordiensis First meeting of term today: Thursday, Jan. 26th 4th Floor Carnegie at the Concordy Office Drop a note at Box 1956 if you can't make it Time: 7 p.m. SALT Talks Reviews of articles from Scientific American Journal every Thursday 12:40 pm N303 • Science & Engineering Bldg. *All ate Welcome! * 1 • Departures from NY every 1 Sat. and Sun. I Price includes: I 1 • Roundtrip airfare from N.Y. 1 · (add $40 from Bait.) I • 7 night hotel I I accommodations (quad occupancy). Add $20 I I for triple, $50 for double. 1 I • Col.lege week activities- I beach parties, sports com· 1 petitions w/prlzes, festivals I A ~ · . · 1-:,!;:~e!!~;;~!::.:!- . . . .rree cone~ week& 1ycaJ9 . . I 0 I !)ave checked availability 1 2::5 SECOND PRIZES 50 THJliD 1?.Rl7J'.S . with ;ny campus rep. ~md I A:Een&Je-ry's T -shirt A Ben.&;:ren-y~ 'brownie 5peel.al Gift CertifiCate 1 enclosea$100depos•t. lr~- ---- _ -- _- ----------- ___ ....._ ____ 1 I Name· 11 . . THE Oft'JCIJ\L ElM.\RY.Sl.ANK I Address d I City I ; 11\illWOW' I Liclt Winl:er with t-Jen&\'~erJ y~ .... 6nzswndsor1es~ I I I .·I· I I State_ Zip I I J 1 Schooi_Phone IJ 1 1 Departure date I I Departure city I ~E WDRE.S.S · I . I I PHONJ:, ..... ,_.. I I I fkltl~~~'M. vs INC. Ill ~ie.G ll!USt be. deyoa::: by Feb:ru~ lS t:h. ~ a:ny &:n.&Jert\.fS. A1le7\l:ries .boc.ome•the property of .Ben &Jerry's ,~ I GEf:J~camG~SS 1._ ~i.:::l'~~:_th..:_~:.~.:,!or.!::~ .---.- ---.---- _ _;>~I L.L5Jf£!~;l~2!,j[ m:m UNION sr .• SCHENECT~ ~~-o20l J I t ' < r ~ t t E t I j ' ~ f I (

... - ::I· ro a.. >- .0 0 ..... 0 .c: • ' , . Q. r ate -, I I I I I I I I J ooe ·1 -- _jf CONCORDIENSIS, January 26, 1984 Page 11 Stay Away From Baccala By BRIAN LAU.X From the mornent he took the stage at Proctor's Billy Idol had a tight hold on his audience. There are many adjectives that one could use to describe his band, his music and Idol himself. Electrifying, exciting, wild, powerful, sexual . . . the music of Billy Idol has an identity all its own. He is one of the more unique artists in the world of Rock and Roll and he draws a great deal from his backg,round and life ex- periences. The forces which have dominated his life, past and present, are' very evident 1n his music and his per- formances. \I mostly try to make social comments. Things I see happening around me.Like \Shooting Star\ is about heroin and how shooting up can really hurt you. All r, know is that I've tried all that .stuff and I almost died. I realize now that its kind of good to tell people because then at least they know that the songs are about something.\ the usual crowd who come to see Billy Idol. \It's great to have all different sorts of audiences .. You can tell that the peopie .here, even if they knew the numbers, really wanted to listen, they're ,really interested. It makes it better for us, let alone them.\ Idol was slightly off pace on his rendition of \Dancing with Myself,'' but lead guitarist Steve Stevens picked up the slack on the old Generation X tune. Idol did a few Gen X tunes, among them, \Kiss Me Deadly.\ \We still do 'Kiss Me l)eadly' and it sounds better than ever. Of course the music has changed since Generation · X, the music is a lot more streamlined nowadays. Generation X, sure we had our own vibe but I think that if you saw it today, even in all its glory, you'd probably· be disappointed, because today the times are different. . . ·but I think the intent is 'the same.\ variety of noises with his guitar, some of which had never been heard by human beings. Idol's performance was sexually oriented as is a large part of his music-this is only one dimension of his talents, however. Although he captures many of the provocative aspects of human exi~nce in his music, it does not do him justice to label him as such. Indeed it is hard to put any label at all on him. · Billy Idol has some great hopes for his band and seems both grateful for acceptance and excited by opportunity. ''I'm glad that people in the states really hung in with me to wait and let me get on with it. Now I've done the \Rebel Yell\ album and I feel I've given them somethingtotal.We really have got a band that is here to stay, in terms of the people in it. The future for us is that we can now ex:pand, I want to play more wild, to make it more Wild now.\ · In the final moments of his show, as he had throughout the vening, Idol left the audience with one thought, one single piece of advice that he wanted to convey to them. . . \Stay away from Baccala.\ THE ARTS Billy Idol reachingouttotheaudience. Idol opened with ''Baby Talk'' a fast-paced rocker from the debut \Billy Idol'\ album, and he immediately had the audience on its feet. The pace kept up throughoUt the show except for occasional diversions into the slower; ·more sensual sounds of such tunes as \Eyes Without A Face\ off the new Rebel Yell album. · For the II).ost part, the audience was .mild compared to For the most part, Stevens was excellent, as was the rest of the band, especially drummer Tommy Price.. who kept the crew right on target throughout the evening. other highlights of the performance were when Idol did ''Rebel Yell\ and \White Wedding,\ the audience pounding closed fiSts, in. the air as Idol bounded all over the stage·pointing out at the crowd. The band also went off in its · versio;n of ''Blue Highway\ with Steve Steven~;! creating a A Classical Connoisseur Union Trio By STAFF Thursday, January 19 was an evening of listening pleasure in the Cabaret room. The act was a: trio of singers: Patty Winters, Theresa Shank, and 1982 Union graduate, Joe Uvegas. Along with their beautifuf voices, Joe ·accompanied many of the songs with his gUitar playing and pjano playing. Patty Winters also played the flute in some of the songs. As can be imagined the trio of performers were extremely talented. The MC for the Cabaret was Ken Budka, a freshman here, and this Cabaret was his performing debut. He told a few jokes and sang a few songs as well. For his first time on the stage, he showed a lot of con- fidence. Hopefully more fresh· meh (as well as upper classmen) will put together acts and perform at Cabaret. For the first act, Patty, Joe and Theresa sang a _host of songs by C.S.N., Cat Stevens, Carole King, Simon & Gar- funkel, and many others. Patty and Theresa sang a beautiful duet, \The Rose,\ and the singing continued until the intermission. · Since there was not another act, the singing trio came out again and sang. They decided that they wanted to get the audience involved, and although the Cabaret room was not full, all those that were there received a very fine night of entertainment. It is really a shame that the student body here does not take advantage of Cabaret. The Union College Cabaret, tmless otherwise advertised, occurs every Thurs.day night. It is very enjoyable to go to Cabaret with friends, and enjoy the show and relax. I realiZe these comments are becoming overused, but I think those who do not take advantage are missing out. ByTOD DIMMICK Visiting a new unexplored area is always my first desire when I go out on the road. This · weekend I visited the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, the huge stone edifice in the center of downtown Troy. Considering my vast experience as a Classical Connoisseur (ha! ) , I will also give my impression of the performance of the night. The Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, aside from the cum~ ·.bersome name, is beautiful. Built in the 1870's when the science of acoustics was hardly even known, the hall boasts excellent sound conveyance. From every seat the sound quality is supP.osed to be the same. The hall is different from an ordinary theatre in design and size. Basically it is rec- tangular with high lofty ceilings and the curtained. boxes in the walls that are characteristic of the Italian renaissance style. Although it is not larger than, say Proctor's, it gives that impression. The seating is well planned, with every seat having an unobstructed . view of the . stage. I felt as though I was . entering· another time when I ..----------------------.. walked into this building. The performance was the Coming Soon! . . .]ts 2nd Annual ·Nite Club United States debut of the Gewandhous Bach 0rchestra. From Leipzig in the German Democratic Republic, this orche,stra is the great grandson -FINANCIAL- -AID- -FORMS- are now available in Becker Hall Deadline: March 1st of the group that Bach himself conducted. The orchestra performs weekly cantata concerts with choirs at the St. Thomas Church, the church where Bach also led the or- chestra. The orchestra consists of seventeen strings, fourteen winds and a harpusichord. The concert opened up with two works of Bach, Suite No. 1 in C Major and Brandenburg Concerto No.5 in D major. The rendition of both of these works was superb. For those who enjoy Bach, the performance was a masterpiece. Par- ticularly good was the characteristic harpsichord that is one of the trademarks of Bach. The everpresent in- terweav-ing melodies were masterfully played. Cht Con- certo, a classic Bach work, was perhaps one of the best pieces of the performance. It sounded better than many recordings I have heard, doing credit to the orchestra Bach himself started. The second part consisted of Mozart and Haydn. Both pieces were well done, especially the Mozart with violin solos that were breathtakingly fluid. There was not a large audience, which may be due to the· unknown skill of the BGO. Once people hear about them, there are going to be packed concert halls. Overall, the concert was memorable. The acoustics were unnaturally good and there was a pleasant audience, with many people our age around. After the show, there are cozy cafes across the street and around the corner for a warming Irish Coffee or a glass of wine. Parking is not difficult, but be sure to know exactly how to get there or you might have problems. Try the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall for an en- joyable, relaxing evening. 1_0 FREE WIN~s~~.~ w1th any order of 10 w1ngstj~~ Or More Buffalo Style Not Valid on Specials Chicken Wings 393-0164 \We Specialize'' HOURS: Mon.-Thurs. 11 a. m . -1 a.m. Fri. and Sat. 11 a.m. ·2 a.m. sun.12 p.m.-Midnight ·wiNG-WAGON 827 McClellan St •• Schenectady. New York Delivery $1.00 Every Hours-6 p.m.-Midnight

Page I 2 CONCORI)/f..'NSJ.fi,: Ja11uary 26, 198./ THE ARTS , A Creative ·areak By JANICE C. THOMPSON Most students at Union are here with one primary goal in mind: to do well in classes, and get good grades. Most students also find that achieving this goal can become very difficult. They encounter long hours of studying, trying to understand complex class notes, reading, and working in lab. After this · kind of work they need a break, an outlet for pent-up energy, or just a change of pace. Many find it in going out or being with friends. Michael Steele, a new member of the Arts Depart- ment faculty, believes that an excellent break from schoolwork is provided by physical exercise, particularly ballet. Michael Steele dancing his way to Union Michael Steele is a retired professional ballet dancer. He has studied With Balanchine, Cornm.unity Arts Calendar 'Theatre ~ - Jan. 26- ''Color Me Shakespeare,\ 8 p.m., N ott Memorial (An evening of readings). Jan. 27-\Words Words, Words-All of Them Crossed,\ 3 p.m., Music Room, Schaffer Library. Intro. to the technique of constructing puzzles. Jan. 27 & 28-:'Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat,\ 1-27-8 p.m. & 1-28..,.2 & 9 p.m., Proctor's Theatre. 382-1082. Jan. 28, 19 & 31-\Living Together,\ 1-28-8 p.m., l-29-2:30 p.m., 1-31-8 p.m. Market Theatre,Albany. 462-4534. ·~ f[Fr.J Music Jan. 28-Faculty Showcase Concert, 8 p.m., SUNY A Performing AftS Center, Albany. _ · 457-8606. Feb. 4-SAFAM (Jewish American Music), 8 p.m., in the Campus Center Ballroom, SUNY Albany. 457-7508. Jan. 27-29- \Polyester 3rd St. Theatre, Rensselaer, 7 & 9: 10 p.m. Jan. 31-\Tess same location as \Polyester.\ 7:30p.m. Union's Visiting Scholar By STAFF · On January 26 and 27, Union's Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa will host actor and director Arnold Moss as · its 1983-84 Visiting Scholar. Moss has been starred in a score o£ plays by leading con- temporary playwrights, as well as in King Lear, The Tempest, TweUtb Night, and Measure for Measure, all on Broadway. From 1955 to 1975 at the Library of Congress, Dr. Moss directed and made ann11al appearances in programs of Shakespeare, Ben Jonson, John Donne, and others. He was producer-actor in a 10;000-mile tour of his own ~ft. \, , .. Arnold Moss, Visiting Scholar adaptation of Shaw~s Back to Methuselah starring Tyrone Power in which Dr. Moss played GBS himself. He has performed as narrator-soloist with the Boston, Detroit, and Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra, and in 1979 made his opera debut at the Lyric Opera of Chicago and at La Scala in Milan, followed by a command performance before Pope Johll Paul II. Dr. Moss has made over one hundred guem appearances on television and has played leading roles in twenty-five Hollywood films. He has been a distinguished visiting professor at the University of Con• necticut, the College .of William and Mary, and Purdue University, and has been artist- in-residence at universities throughout the country. He served for almost a year as a specialist. in theater for the U.S. State Department in Latin America, Francophone Africa, and the Far East. Dr. Moss has been awarded the James K. Hackett Medal and the Townsend Harris Medal of the City College of New York. He has published ·iJI Tbeatre Journal, Theatre Arts, and the New York· Times, and has authored nearly fifty hour• long play,s for the CBS Radio Mystery Theater. His professional affiliations include the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the National Board of AFTRA, the American Theatre Association, and the advisory council of the National Society of Arts and Letters. He is listed in Who's Who In America and Who's Who In American Tbeatre. He is the constructor of scores of crossword puzzles in the New York Times Magazine and in puzzle collections. While on campus, Dr. Moss will participate in, Prof. Ruth Stevenson's class \Shakespeare to 1600,\ and will meet with Prof. Barry Smith's acting and directing students, as well as cast members from the production of Hamlet, now in production on campus. •· Van Zwisohn Executive Director of the New York State Coalition for Criminat Justice will be presenting a discussion ~n Capital Punishment in the U.S. · Wednesday, Feb. 1 7:30 55016 Taylor,_ Robbins and Glen Tetley. He has danced with the New York City Ballet at the Cologne Opera House in West Germany and at the Hamburg .State Opera House. Right now he has a dancing school in _ Saratoga SPrings, a city which use'tl to be t:he \summer home of the New York City Ballet\ because of the Sarat(lga Per~ forming Arts Center there. He is a newcomer at Union: he just started teaching ballet classes here this semester. Steele realizes that students are at Union to become engineers, c;>r doctors, or lawyers and that academics are of prime importance. Yet, no one can be at their studies constantly withoUt going crazy. He is amazed that there is no physical education requirement at Union, and stresses the importance of exercise. Ballet, he believes, provides both this important activity 'and an ap- prc;>priate · contrast to classes and homework. He describes ballet in such terms as \a creative, physical outlet, a cleansing of the brain,\ and a lot like meditating. What's more, for some it is more fun than jogging, or calisthenics. Steele offers ballet classes for three levels, for beginning, intermediate, an-d advanced dancers. ,For the beginning class, he starts teaching from scratch; no previous experience is necessary. Onedoes not need to be a serious dancer to get involvedinthese classes; Steele does not even recommend for anyone to want to professiq,nally dance. He merely wants the Union students to enjoy themsel-ves in his classes. Both the Arts Department and Steele wish that there were more people on this campus who would e'!:press the desire to take ballet. If a student is in- terested, it would be helpful if he or she would sign up in the. ArtsDepartment office toward' the end of this semester in order to take the classes in tbe springo The com is $35 for ten weeks', and one may take the classes for credit if one wi·shes. Becoming involved in these ballet classes is ail excellent idea for those who would like t() take the time to g~t away from academics for awhile, and Wh() would enjoy· being creatjve in their physical exercise. Good Listening By ERIC LIPMAN I The single most important characteristic which separate~ those people who know a great deal about music from those who don't is that the-first gro~p is willing to take risks. Experimenting, e~loring, and branching out creatively are the fundamental rules which allow a person to discover new musical worlds; as well as learn what was valuable about the older' more familiar worlds we know. The listener who is riveted to one radio station, and owns only six albums, un- fortunately will never go much beyond Casey Cayson. Falling into a listening ''routine\ - as comfortable as it may be - actually restricts us: The establiShed material will be played over and over again, and very little new music will ever be introduced. Having taken no risks,· we will hear very little other than that which is put in front of us. EXPERIMENTATION: lf you are not the kind of person who by nature swings wildly up · and down the dial from radio station to radio station, sometimes it can be a lot of fun to leave your regular spot to try· something new. I personally have always liked the \spend a song\ approach to music ex- . perimentation. All it requires is that you eliminate your favorite mation from consideration, and then listen to one song at ~ach of DANCE CLUB MEETING the different radio stations yoa can receive on your radio- stereo. Once · you discover yourself listening to more thaa one song on a station you rarely- frequent, you not only have found something ne:w, you are ready for the next step. . EXPLORATION: Intrigued by your discovery, you should begin to ask yourself a number of different q11estions.- Who wrote the selection I liked? - What makes this person's style unique? How is it better or worse? The q:uestion process allows you to clarify in your mind exactly what you have found, as well as gives you the ability to compare the uses of musical techniques in a number of different types of music and . in differ~nt musical sett~gs. BRANCHING OUT CREATIVELY: By far the most abstract of tbe three, branching out is actually a continuous . \growing\ p~ocess much more than it is a strict set of behaviors. Having made some musical discoveries, this is a time of establishing a strong foothold in your newfound areas of interest, as well as a time for experimentation and ex• ploration in others. The experbnentation-expl- oration-branching out formula is little more than a guide; a. formula for taking calculated risks that yield interesting and important results. Good listening to you! *Monday, January 30 7 pm./ Strauss·Lounge· • 4 ...

CONCORDIENSIS, Januarrl6, 1984· Page 13 SCHOLARSHIPS . . Applications for the 1984-85 Pennsylvania State Grants for Pennsylvania· residents are now available in the Financial Aid Office. -- I Phi Chi Theta Foundation is offering $1,000 grants for 1984-85 to women pursuing Bachelor's and Master's programs in business and~or ·economics. The application deadline is May l. Further inforniation can be obtained at the Financial Aid Office. The Jewish Foundation for Education of Women is a non- sectarian organization that offers need·4>ased grants and interest-free loans. Information and applications for 1984-85 can be obtaineq by writing to the Foundation at 120 West 57 . Street, New Y:ork, N.Y. ~0019, by January 31, 1984. The National S9ciety of Professional Engineers offers scholarships to undergraduate engineering students with at least a 3.6 G.P.A: Applications for 1984.;fl5, which are due February 1, are available in the Financial Aid Office. Delta Delta Delta is con- ducting a scholarship com.- peUtion for undergraduate women for 198!l-415. Applicants . are considered on the basis of academic record, ex- tracurricular activities and community service, promise of service to their chQsen field, and financial need. Applications, which must be submitted prior to March 15, are available in the Financial Aid Office, Dean's Office, and .from the Tri Delta Service 'Projects Chairman on this campus. The Delta Gamma Foun- dation oUers loans and scholarships to its un- dergraduate and· graduate stpdent sisters and children .of sisters. For more information, write · to: Delta G-amma Executive Offices; .c-o Grants and Loans Chairman; 3250 · Riverside Dr.; Columbus, Ohio 43221, ' The American Society of Naval Engineers is offering non-need-based awards to r..c:<:~~-.r~~:c~,~~:a:~~,~~~~,.~~r;.o~:r::>»X!f I 'Ro.ck~N-RoU Pizza Pub I S Free Delivery- 370-6060 · ~ ~ Open 7 days a week at 1:30 p.m. ~ ~ I ~ . § . La·rge Pi-zza (8 cut) 4.85 I i Sma II Pi:z::z:a <6 cut> 3. 7 5 ~1' undergraduate students in a program of study related to naval engineering (including Electrical Engineering). Applications, which are due by February 15, are available in the Financial Aid Office. The Albany Area Branch of the English Speaking Union is offering a $1,000 scholarship to nineteen-year-olds .for study or personal development in an English Speaking Country during 1984. Copies of the brochure describing the scholarship may be obtained by calling Edgar Tompkins, President of the Albany Area Branch at the Albany Public Library 449..3380 or any member of tne scholarship committee which is co-chaired by Dr. Raymond Vickers and Jerome Flax. The Business and Professional Women's OICganization uffers grants · to both undergraduate and graduate women. For more information and an application, write to the Organization at 2012 Massachusetts Avenue, NW; Washington, D. C. 20036. The Society of Exploration Geophysicists Education Found_ation is offering scholarships to undergraduate and graduate students in a college course directed toward the study of geophysics. The award is based primarily on academic competence, secondarily on financial need. For an aJ?plication, which is due by March 1, write to the Foundation at P.O. Box 3098; Tulsa, Oklahoma 74101. CAMPUS NEWS mer? Consider applying for a New York City internship. Major busines~es and non .. profit organizations in New York City will be hiring summer interns. Open to Juniors and Seniors. Pick up applications after January 30 in the Career Development Center. FINANCIAL AID Financial Aid applicati·ons are now available for 1984-85. Please pick up yours at financial aid office in Becker Hall. (Remember you must reapply every year.) FAF's: must be mailed by March 1 so that all forms are received by the April 15 deadline. VOLUNTEERS LITERACY VOLUNTEERS of Schenectady will begin a new tutor training program for those who are interested in teaching reading to adults. The workshops will be held on March 8th, 13th, 15th, 27th and 29th from 7 to 10 PM at the Zion Lutheran Church, 153 Nott Terrace. There will be a registration fee of $10 to $15 for materials. Those interested in the program may obtain additional -information or register for the workshop by calling the LITERACY VOLUNTEER office at 372-9819. SPEAKERS speaker is Dr. Steven Berk; his topic will be Soviet Jewry at the Crossroads. Services are at 5:30, dinner is at 6:00, and the talk will be at approx. 7:00. Dinner costs $4.50 and reser~ vations are recommended (can Dave at x6477 or Mike at 374~ 8583}. The talk and services are free. Van Zwisohn, Executive Director of the New York State Coalition. for Criminal Justice in Albany will be presenting a discussion on Capital Punish- ment in the U.S. ori Wednesday, February 1, at7:30in SS016. Mr. Zwisohn is a graduate of Albany Law School and has appeared on many local T.V. and radio broadcasts. The talk will in- clude a short slide show and refreshments will be served. Administrative and Engineering System Colloquium presents Steven Anderman, Deputy Director, Division of Health Care Financing, State of New York on January 26, 1984-3:45 P.M. He will be speaking on Pricing Policies for Health Care Facilities in the 1980s in Room 312, Bailey Hall, Union College. CAREER INFO The Foreign & Domestic Teachers Organization needs teacher applicants in all fields from Kindergarten through College to fill over six hundred teaching vacancies both at home and abroad. ~ I ~-. , ··~ · ... , ··· · · ·,\~66 · ,, 6 -cu~ ~ :INTERNSHIPS Q Pepperoni· l.OO .75 ~ ==· ========= The Jewish Student Union in conjunction with the Kosher Kitchen present another in our series of Friday night dinner- speakers. This week's guest Should you wish additional information about our organization, you may write the Portland Oregon Better- Business Bureau or the National Teachers' Placement Agency, UNIVERSAL TEACHERS, Box 5231, Por- tland, Oregon 97208. I Sausage . 75 li ~~ X-Cheese l.OO .75 a It st d · · · g a ~ Mushroom-· 075 1 n ere e m gamm c .reer • . . . ·50 ~~ related experience this swn- lil. Peppe·rs .75 50 ~ g:. Onions .75 :so § q. Also, our full line of sub sandwiches ~ I 2.25-2.50 ~ I This week's special: 1126- 212 R m Get one bag of popcorn I ~ or 2 ~ --· one small soda ~ X g S FRE. E f~ ·~, . . . I - . WITH ANY LARGE PIZZA ORDERED j~ A:ll,.. ......... ,,.,,,.~'!<:'.!·'>· ........ :.t:·'\·•\' .... \\~-~ ........... .,.,;,-:-~· .. _,,.,~ ............. ,~ ................ ~ ..... ~~:~,-+ .......... .t!::S'\\\ .... ~,'!>·., • ......... ~'\\\;. ........ ~)o'.,;.:,. ... , ...... :~- ....... ~~·~~ ....... & ............ ~ ...... =~··\·\\'~·''-':..r- .... ~.~:,. .. ~..;·~-',.....,. ... \' .. :,2' ........ ..,.;'t\•~\' ..... d Freezin'? Warm Up At PHI DELT'S Taco-N-Tequila Beer • Punch ·• Shots • Soda Tacos: 50~ ea. or 3 for $1! Hot Sauce & Hot Tunes Fri .. , Jan. 27. 9:30 .. ? U.S. NAVY MEDICINE MEDICAL SCHOOL SCHOlARSHIP PROGRAM Are you seekin.g a way to help finance your medical school education? The NAVV has a perfect opportunity In Its Medical School Scholarship program. BENEFITS • FuU tuition and educational fees • $479.00 per month stipend • Commission as a United States Naval Officer • Internship & Residency training available upon graduation • Practice at one of 23 hospitals nationwide or nine overseas locations OBLIGATION • A minimum of 3 years after graduation. • 45 days of required annual active duty that can be spent in Navy clerksbips, (required, elective, clinical or research) or at Officer Indoctrination Schoo,. BASIC QUALI·FICATIONS • U.S. citizen • Excellent professional references • Accepted to an AMA approved mecilcaJ.school APPLICATION DEADLINE: MARCH 1, 1984 For further Information. write or call: LT. John Romac Medical Officer Program Leo W. O'Brien Federal Bldg -,NV 12207 472-4424 '.'

CONCO/l/JI El\'.W.S~ .January 26,. 198./ CAMPUS NEWS HELP ·wANTED Student Wanted-Commission Sales-Imprinted sportswear to clubs, fr-ats, etc. Please contact- -Paul Silverstein at 462-3838. Make your own hours. live-in or sleep in or show up by 3:45 a.m. to sit for 2 children 3 yrs. and 21 months old. May leave at 7:45·a.m. or stay until 1:30 p.m. Negotiable-Room & · board. Please contact 371-2162 Clifton Park area. Babysitter for 8 year old boy. Five days a week-afternoons. Pick him up from St. John the Evangelist School (across from Union) at2:30 p.m. until4:30or 5:00 p.m. Please contact Mary Ellen Mangold after 5 p.m. or weekends at 374-6130. CLUB NEWS Dance Club meeting Monday, January 30 at 7 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Come discuss plans for winter and spring per- formances and a Paul Taylor · master class! Organizational meeting for Independent Student Coalition :It Union College. Meeting is to rleal with TAP parity lobbying campaign and will be held on Monday, January 30th at 3:30 in Strauss I ounge. Political Forum Meeting-- 4:00p.m. Tuesday, January 31st in Strauss .. Lounge. Please at- tend if interested. Newman Club Me~ting Monday, January 30, 8:00p.m. Carnegie 4th floor Lounge. Bible Study on Gospel of Matthew, Thursday, February 2, 4:00 p.m. Campus Ministry Office. Folk Group will meet Friday, January 27, between 4 and 5 in the Library of St. .John Evangelist School. Use gym doors to enter. New members welcome. · Campus Ministry presents- Wednesday Evening Lecture Series, This will be on February 1st. Rev. Jim Donlon, Canon Lawyer for the Diocese -of Albany will speak on \The New Code of Cqnon Law\ and its implications for our daily lives. 8:00P.M. Fourth Floor Lounge, Carnegie Hall. The Film Committee presents-The Year of Living Dangerously on Friday, Saturday and Sunday 1-27 thru l-29. Times are 7, 9, 11 and will be shown in SS016. $1 Admission. Dirty Harry, on Tuesday 1-31 at 7, 9 ~nd 11. SS016. $1 ad- mission. CLASSJFJEDS Typing done for students or professors. Please contact 377- 4215. Scotia area. • FOR SALE:- Great car-1974 Buick Apollo, 70,000 miles. $800 negotiable, Blaupunkt arn·fm cassette. Call Roberta 37~769. ROOMMATE WANTED- Female only. Young college employee is looking for another college employee OR student to share 2-bedroom apartment . near campus. This apartment is approximately 1-2 miles from Union. Approximately $150• month--ALL UTILITIES in- cluded. For infonnation, call 370-6293 (8:00am-5:00pm} .. Ask for Tracy. The Jewish Student Union has a couple of tickets available for Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat. The show is at 8:00, Saturday, January 28, and the tickets are $10 each. For tickets or more information contact Mike at 37HI583. l's it true you can bay jeeps for $44 through the U.S. Gover-n- ment? Get the {acts today! Call (312) 742-11'42-Ext. 4269. PERSONALS Barrie Stahl, Tharrks for Saturday night. I'm glad you saw through my \get to the girl I want by seeing her best friend., routine. But, let's make a deal: at the PEAK of the moment, next time don;t c:all me Tommy and I won't call you my girlfriend's name! O.K.? Next time I'll let you smoke. D. -------·----~ K.€.G.-I love you. No tears, but hope and time. See yoa 4 DUTC~u~!?~~!?! PUB Kitchen Saturday B kf St 7 30 11 00 Dutchman's Night · Resenations on)~ rea a . . . . . . : a.m.- : a.m .. Lunch ........ 11:30a.m.·1:30p.m. Seatings5p.m.,6p.m.,7p.rn. Dinner . . . . . . . . 5:00 p.m.-7:00p.m. Bar Mond~y and Wednesday .... 4: 30·7 :00 Tuesday. . . . . . . .......... , . 4: 30-? Thursday._ ................. 4.:30-? Friday ..................... 4:30·? Saturday ............. · ....... 9:00-? Watch next week for the return of the Thursday Night D.J.! 11 The Only REA.L Videotech\ •••••••••••••••••• ~ .. ·. :If A\~lr A\~ lilts·: ••••••••••••••••• lnconiunction with Onion Social Committee PRESEN·TS A VALENTINESPARTY -FREE BUSES (staggered rides) . -50¢ DR'AFTS & 75¢ VALENTINES SCREWDRIVERS -FREE DRINK WITH INVITATION ·~ -DOOR PRIZES AND UN ION ON 'flO EO $3.00 admission Feb. 7th • 9:00-close Rte. 155 south of State St. tonight. J.S.C. Dear SRP, Happy Secon<U! Thanks for the last two years. Looking towards the rest together. A.M.L. Y ;T. T.R.L.S. GLR ------------......!-~-~-- To MS-Watch those fragrant thighs, you sex .goddess! ! And remember, never ·On a football field. I know from ex- perience!!!! WB K.B.-1 didn't know Hickok had strobe lights!?! Danadadad·ada da-da•da, danadadadada DA DA DA!!! -Wackie- ---.,..---_..;.-~-~---- Doug,..,I still can't believe what I saw you doing Monday. My image of you is shattered. From the non-existent Sunday newscaster \who cares about every breath you take.\ __,_ _________ __.;,. ______ ...,......_....;:. Hey Cha-Cha! Get your feet ready to go ice-skating! Ha ha! No, I don't want any raisinettes, thanks anyway, \Garfield.\ TERMS ABROAD Opportunities eXist for study In Japan during the fall term of 1984-85. The program includes living with a Japanese family, studying Japanese, and taking at least three additional courses related to East Asia. If you are interested in learning more about the program, please see Professor Thurston, SS213b. Junior year at a German University-Applications will be received until January 31 for Union's German University Exchange Prograzp .sponsored by the Federation of German- - ·- .Arnerican clubs. Candidate:; should ·be sophomores well on · their way to :a good . working knowledge of Germail. One, or possibly two students will be chosen to participate m the exchange program. For'-more information and application forms, contact Professor Warde in Ht:J 211. Modern Isr~el will be the focus of a special academic summer program sponsored by the State University of New York. Only · a limited n11I11ber of students can be accepted, and early application is .recom- mended. For specific detaUs about the 1984 Academic Program in Israel, write Department of International Education, SUNY Summer Program in. .Israel, State University College, Oneonta, New York 13820, or telephone Office of International Education, 607-431-3369~ Union C:ollege Film Co.m ntittee presents .HUIY (410111,1~ I. COP Pl.IYift(; OlltLY 0~ ffl( tfiAfl (jJ ol '>NIFUWH!lltll(~Bf IH£ 'SIUS• • AltO~UrrHII{F~IHlCl BAS[DOIU. ~CA((HPl.Ar 8t H!RRY'JULI4N fiNK& R. M•HnK· A~D O(.Att ~I(Siitlt CII_NT [A~OOD IS DIRil HA~~t A 1.1UP~OC(I'-ItA~·; \P_If.)ll'JC fl!ltt 01~U;Il08l00fl Sl(~ll fO\'wARflUB~OS 'i!E:ASl Tues Jan. 3l 7, 9, 11-55016 $1 __ _j Governor Cuomo has_ just released his budget for the new fi-scal year, so the Cl RCLE OF CONTROVERSY this week will take a look at how the state proposes to spend its money; Our guest is Ar1hur Kremer,· c;hairman of the Assembly'~ Ways and Means Committee~ So tune in this Thursday night at 8:00 p.m. on WRUC 89.7. Union is now in the initial stages-oi attempting to set up a Term Abroad in Japan. If all goes well·, it woull:l begin in the Fall <>I 19B5. The program would consist of the following major components: 1. A fifteen-week term from September 1 to December 15 at Kansai University of Foreign Studies near Osaka. 2. Living with a Japanese family throughout the term. 3. A course in beginning Japanese. (Meets five 50-minute hOurs/week) 4. Two courses related to East Asia taught in English by Kansai professors. (Each meets two SO-minute hours per week.) 5. One course related to East Asia taught by the 'accompanying Union professor. (Meets two 80 minute~hours per week.) 6. Field trips. Students would receive three Union credits for the term and It is envisioned thatthe cost, exclusing the a'irfare, would be comparable to that of tuition, room and bOard at Un.ion. · I would like to have some indication of the number of students who would be interested in participating in such a Term Abroad in Japan. With the understanding that you are not making a commitment but that you are interested in the.possibilit.y of studying .in Japan,. would you please fill out the square below and leave it in the mailboxof the Editor of Concordiensis. Thank you very much··Professor Donald Thurston ~-- ... ~ ~-- -,. .... ~·..-.- ...... - ... --·~ ... - --·----- .... ---~ Name ........•................ - ........ • .... · · · · · · · · · · Year.and Major ............. , . _ .... , ................•.. Check one of the fo.llowing: ~strong interes1 in the Term Abre>ad in Japan -Mild interest (would like to learnmoreabout.it) ·Please tear off and leave inConcordiensis Box 2577

CONCORDJENSJS, JanuarJ' 26, 1984 PagelS ••olympic Hotkey Hopes.\ Sports Talk With SCOTT WYKOFF , Spotts Staff Th.e preparation began way back in June at the National Sports Festival in Colorado Springs. Sixty~seven games and seven months later the OliYffipic Hockey Team fmd$ itself only two weeks aw:ay from their long .awaited curtain call in . Sarajevo, YugoslaVia. An ·entire nation remembers 1980 and \the miracle on ice\ at Lake Placid. Bead Coach Lou Vairo and his twenty young American skaters hope to repeat history but tbey also realize the odds are against it: Due to the great £eats of the 1980 gold medal winnera, a great deal of attention has been paid to the young American players and their coach. Many so-called hockey experts were surprised two years ago when Lou Vairo was named by the U.S. Olympic Committee to coach Team USA. They .doubted the ability of a Brooklyn native, who ·never played the game. Most expected to see a college coach selected to lead Team USA but the. choice of Vairo has prQven to be a true blessing .for Red, White and Blue hopes. Vairo's hockey background is rich but not the most con- ventional in terms of how he's gotten to where he is now. As an energetic· young Brooklyn youth Vairo and his friends found that by putting on roller skates they could play games of hockey ifi th\e streets with sticks' and an old tennis ball. He was 21 before he ever laced up his first pair of ice' skates. Vairo slowly began to follow hockey on ice and read all the books he could about the game while coaching and ref.fing on the youth level. After moving up through the ranks of suburban New York youth hockey circles Vairo came up with an idea that would change · his career. After saving the needed funds, the Brooklyn native travelled to Russia to study the complicated in.: ternational style of play. He quickly learned that tq win on the international level US teams would have ~o lear-n the puck control-weaving system so effective on the large rinks used in world competitions. Vairo left the Northeast. to travel west to Minnesota to coach the Junior A Mavericks of the United· States Hockey League. His next move up the coaching ladder was as· head coach of the Junior Team USA squad. Over th~se years of preparation Vairo developed a hockey theory that he has ef- fectively integrated into a strategy to go for gold in Sarajevo. The 3.8 year old father of two has stressed conditioning for his squad. He believes that the team in tfle best condition will .be able to achieve the most in the winter showcase. Team USA · also emphasizes puck possession and a total team. oriented attitude hoped to avoid any tendency to rely on a few individuals for Olympic suc- cess. Vairo's lineup is made up of twenty college age players who aU sat in their respective living rooms back in 1980 to watch Team USA win the gold at Lake Placid. There are only two holdovers from the gold medal squad in John Harrington and Phil Verchota. The rest of Vairo\s lineup is made up of recent college graduates, un .. dergraduates .and even two high school · players. The biggest name on the squad is 19 year old scoring sensation Pat LaFontaine. LaFontaine passed up signing with the New York Islanders for the honor of wearing the · colors of Team USA. Pat's the type of player that can break a game open and has been the most prolific scorer for the squad in its grueling ·pre-Olympic schedule of games with a combination of professional, international and collegiate competition. Many observers have com- mented that the 1984 squad has mor~ talent than the gold'1Iledal group of Lake Pla.eid. Even with the better talent the road to gold will be a tough one for Team USA and Vairo'screw has made its goal for Sarajevo to reach the medal round and once there anything can happen. It all starts · against Canada on February seventh and who knows how this chapter in US Olympic hockey will be writ- ten? · .. ..look to rebound at Hobart Fri, Gamet Fiye Struggling at 7-6 ByB.I. .Sports Staff Consistency-something that distinguishes the good. teams from the mediocre ones--is also something that tile Union ba,sketball team has been lacking all season long. As a result, a talented Union .squad has recently slipped into medi\ocrity posting a disapo pointing 7 •6 record at the midway point in the season . InJuries and illness have contributed to this . season~ s woes, but last week, after pourrding Middlebury 81-58 with a less than healthy squad, the Dutchmen traveled. to Platt- sburgh relatively injury free and were handed a 71-63 loss anyway. Even when healthy the Dutchmen have had difficulty defeating less talented teams. At Middlebury, the Dutchmen figured to be fu a struggle due to a ·lack of healthy bodies. Starting forward Kevin Bartlett was out with a knee injury, Briar) Laux saw limited time due to a broken nose suffered in the previous game, and fresh- man Bruce Witherspoon was coming off the flu. Add Jim Doherty (out the entire season with a knee injury) to this list and the Dutchmen's frontcourt was pretty thin. However, center Ken D'Orazio had perhaps the best game of his career (27 points, 12 rebounds) to key a 81-59 blowout. D'Orazio and senior guarcJ, Joe Wood (19. points, 6 assists) shot holes thi:ough a porous Middlebury zone defense as the Dutchmen grabbed an early lead and never looked back. The bench pressed ·into action, was relied upon heavily throughout the entire game, and responded with a fine effort which was certainly vital to the victory. Union could not put two victories together as they were dropped at Plattsburgh 71-63 on Saturday. The loss was the third in the last four games for the Dutclunen. It was typical of the earlier losses suffered by Union as they stayed within striking distance until second half of· fensive ' and defensive lapses sealed their fate. The inability to make the big plays in crucial situations has plagued the Garnet all year. Union was within three, 41-38 with 10:34 remaining, but allowed Platt~ sburgh to stretch the advantage to 50-40 with 7:28left and could never climb back. Jim Hogan, a former Union player, had 14 points .for Plattsburgh. in helping defeat his old mates, while Joe Wood led Union with 18. The Dutchmen will travel to Hobart and Rochester this weekend searching for the winning .formula again as they will take on two squads that they have already defeated. But away frorri home and struggling, Union knows vic- tories are no longer assured. Wood . o.rorazio · Bartlett Top Scorers fg% ftoA. 51.3 74.5 51.0 79.6 44.4 75.4 avg 20.2 14.5 12.9 Athlete of the Week WRuc· Sports Schedule F=ri., Jan. 27- 7:45 Basketball at Hobart Fri., Jan. 27- 10:00 Hockey vs. Hamilton Sat.,Jan.-28-7:45 Basketball at Rochest.er· Mon., Jan. 30-6:45 · Hockey at Norwich Tues., Jan. 31 -7:45 Basketball vs. Binghamton · The Best In Sports On WRUC!! By DREW HURLEY \ Sports Staff Congratulations to Rebecca Clemente,. the Dutchwomen's high scoring guard, wbo .receives Athlete of the Week honors for her performance in Union's three g~e win streak. Rebecca currently leads the Dutchwomen basketball team with a 12.2 average, 73 points scored, and eight assists. In Union's 56-43 victory over Skidmore, Clemente led all scorers with 14 points. In the upset win over rival Albany St. she again was the team's high scorer with 18 points and handed out four assists. Again$ Williams, a. game Union led .from start to finish, Ms. Clemente chipped in with 11 points. Rebecca, a sister at Delta Gamma, is a graduate of Baldwin (NY) H.S. where she · was All-C~mference in soccer and basketball. She was a co- captain on this year's soccer team as a sophomore, and was named Union's outstanding .fresqman female athlete at PrU;e Day 1983. ,, ~· Women's-Hoop5tands4-2 l(est~tJral11 ani ~C\r .${)1 lii\TTI£ 5T. 3q3-C),sqq By LISA FOLEY Sports Staff Rebecca Clemente, sophomore tri•captafu -of the - Dutchwomen mundballers, maintains her position as most consistent high scorer of the team. Clemente led her team in scoring in two of the team's three wins last week over Skidmore, Albany State, and Williams. The Dutchwomen record iS now 4-2. On Tuesday, Jan. 17, Union defeated Skidmore on their court with a score of 56-43. Clemente added 1t points to the high score of the game. Closely folloWing her performance were fellow tri-captains Julie Miller with 10 .points and Cay Lynch with 12 points. Defensively, freslnnan Barbara Weisinger helped out at center by pulling down nine rebounds and blocking three shots. She also aided the team by scoring seven points. The Dutchwomen narrowly defeated Albany State when Union played home on Satur- day, Jan.19. At half-ti.Ine, Union shadowed Albany State 25-24. Clemente again led the roWld- ballers scoring 18 points assisted by Miller who added 10 points herself to give Union a win, 48-47. With high sco:ring by Miller, and sophomores Patty Richards, and Clemente, lJnion clinched their third consecutive win of last week. Miller shot 46 percent from the floor and Richards 55 percent each ad- ding 12 points to the score. Clemeate proved. herself a consistent scorer with 11 points. At half-time, Union led Williams by four, with a score of 29-25. The Dutchwomen came onto the court in the second · · strongly, improving their to nine points in the first minutes. Williams - College succeeded in closing the gbp with a full court press to only traiLby four points. But, Union pulled away to win 52-44. . Top Scorers . fg% ft% avg Clemente 51.3 74.5 12.2 Lynch 43.3 62.5 10.3 Mill'er 36.5 50.0 9.7 Mann at Millrose Games Sophomore Jim Mann will be competing in the prestigious Milrose Games at Madison Square Garden this Friday night. This is nothing new for Jim,' who is among the top eight one mile race walkers in the country. He recQrded I:J.is, per- sonal best time of 6; 17.1 at these last year. After the Garnes this weekend, will head down to Louisville, Ky. to compete in the Mason-Dixon Games on February third. Bloody Mary Brunch Sunday 12 : 00 t i I 3 : 00 Serving Pancakes, Scrambled Eggs, Bacon, Ham, Home Fries, Coffee Cake, ~lueberry Muffins, Bagels, Coffee, Tea All for $2.50 plus tax BLOODY MARY'S $1.00 ..

r .•. Page /6 CONCORDIENSIS. Janu111:r 46. 198./ SPORTS .- •. playoff bound? Skating Dutchn1en Check Ephs By A.W. Sports Staff The Union College hockey team has accomplished twl> things they had yet to ac- complish under a Charlie Morrison coached team. First, they beat Williams at Williamstown, 6~2, in perhaps their most solid performance of the year. They had never beaten Williams on their home ice before. This win, coupled with a eventually tipping it in for the· winning goal. Union started off on the wrong bot in the first .period of this game as Salem State jumped out to a 2-o lead. The Dutchmen t()ok advantage of two power play opportunities to tie it up. All year they have had a strong power play, and a Knight deflection of a Gavin Morton slapshot before the end of the first period, along with Mike Rozzi's .goal in the second ·~ .• ! . . High scoring Joe Caruso checks a Salem defender. Union is 5·3·1 in Div. II play and looking toward a playoff berth for the first time in head coach Charlie Morrison's six yr. tenure. come from behind victory over Salem State three days earlier,. put Union at 7-6-1, the first time a Morrison team has ever been over .500 after Christmas break. It also places the Dutchmen in a good position to make the ECAC Division. II playoffs. Tommy·Hodgins sparked the Dutchmen in the Salem game, as his two third period goals overcame a 3~2 Salem lead. His first goal was a screen shot; the goalie never really seeing the puck. His second goal was scored as he and Jamie Knight scrambled for the rebound of a Joe Caruso shot, Hodgins period helped to improve the Dutchmen power play per- centage. Salem's third goal came after Bart Brooks was caught out of · position after making an initial save. A Salem player capitalized on a gift rebound to put it into the open goal. But in the end it turned out to be a tough loss for Salem, and when Salem left Williamstown the next night, again losers by a one go~l margin, it seemed as though the Union-Williams game would be a close, hard fought contest. Swimmers Shallow lt was just that in the first period. John Mackenzie scored the first goal for the Dutchmen. Williams tied it up, but the first period did not end before Mike Roz.zi scored his second goal in two consecutive games. In the second period, Brooks shined in the nets as the Dut- chmen pulled away from their purple counterparts. Goals bY Gill Egan, Curt Cole and Duane Joyce gave Union a 5-1 lead after two periods, and Brooks saved all eleven shots that came at him. The Dutchmen .seemed to have the game put away, but in the third period they tried hard·. to let the Ephmen back in the ' game.. This final period was more like a penalty-calling exhibition for the referees -a dozen total, and eight com- mitted by Union. Williams scored their second goal on one of their many power play op- portunities, and if there was any concern on the part of the Dutchmen, it vanished as soon as the red light signaling Joe Caruso's goal lit up, Union's sixth and final goal of the night. BLUE LINES: Union rest's comfortablY in fifth place in the ECAC's Division II Western Conference, which would qualify them for the playoffs. Hamilton is ninth, but several games off the pace ... Tommy Hodgins' two goals were his first goals in seven games but his line (along with Knight and Caruso) is peaking for the stretch run ... Gill Egan was profiled in the Eastern College Hockey Newsletter, and along with a couple of Union hockey photos and an article on the Prep School Tourney written by SID George Cuttita. Egan Caruso Leading Scorers (through l/24) G A 15 7 11 n Hodgins 6 12 Cole 8 7 Knight 5 8 p 22 22 18 15 13 Sports Happe11ings J.an. 26-Feb. 2 var:sityHec~ey Jan. 27 Hami.l·ton Jan. 30 N<!rWich Men's Basketball Jan, 27 Hobart Jqn. 28 Roc'hester ,Jan. 31 Bingi'IC!mton Feb. 2 Hamilton J.V. Hockey Jan. 26Avon Jan. 27 Berkshire Feb. 1 trin. pawling J.V. Basketball ·J:an. 30J.C.A. Feb. 1 oneonta Women's Basketb-all' Jan. 27·28 Bingh<:~mton Tol1rnament Jan. 31 Middlebury Feb. 2 R'PI Men's Swimming Jan. 28 Norwich Feb. 1 New Paltz, Vassar Women's Swimming Jan. 28 Norwich, Feb. l Skidmore Men's Indoor Track Jan. 28 Plattsbl1rg!'llnvy Women's Indoor Track Jan. 28 Plattsburgh ·lnvy Scoreboard HOCKEY (5·3·1 l (7·6·1 overall) Union 4 Union 6 MEN'S BASKETBALL (H) 7:30(h) 7:00(A) R:·OO(AJ B:OQ(.A) B.:QO(A) 8:00(H) .J:lS(H) 3:30(H) 3:30(H) 7:00.(.A) 6:30(A) (AJ 6:00(.HJ . 6:00(H} 1 :OOtH> 4:30(A) 1 :OO(H) 4,00(A) (A). (A.) Salem St. 3 Williams 3 Union 81 Middlebury 5.9 Plattsburgh 71 Union 63 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (4,2) Vhion 46 Albany St. 47 Union 52 Williams44 MEN'S SWIMMING (0·2) Trin.ity 53 Union41 VVOMEN'S SWIMMING (2·0) Union Russell Sage xx WOMEN'S TRACK (1-3) vermont 101 Union 4 Plattsburgh 22 MEN'S TRACK (1·3·) Colgate7.5 Union 59 Union 59 Plattsburgh 29 Scott Remillard takes second in shot put. Remillard set school record in the 35 pound weight throw. Cl L. •C]) .c c: QJ ~ ~ C]) 'E ·C: 0 lXI :>. .c s .c: a. By MIKE FOX Sports Staff 200breast,Kylecotugnomthe·Great Performances, Second· Place 400 IM relay and 200 fly, and · · With the final race of the day deciding who won or lost, Union's men's swim team suffered defeat last Monday, this time to Trinity College, 53- 41. The team. led by coach McGee, is again poorly un· dermanned this season as it has been for the last several seasons. Despite this, the swimmers gave their all and many showed fine per- formances this week. First place finishes were turned in by Andy Crossley in the 400 IM relay, 200 free, and 200 back. Other winners include Brian Chabot in the 400 IM relay and Steve Jacobs in the 400 IM - relay. By DIU . this season, came within one The women placed last behind Hard-fought second places Sports Staff second of McRoberts' time of both UVM and Plattsburgh ·were scored by Kyle Cotugno, 9:12.6. Once again the mile plagued by injuries of Julie Mike Millet, and the relay team The men's track team boasts relay team makes the .story for Halpern, Andrea · Grief and of Ron Newbold, Leon Hodes,. many achievements from ~this its first place finish in 3:31.6. Carol Levy. . Millet and Mike Fox. The men's weekend's home meet versus The runners were Pete Also this weekend Jim Mann record is now 0-2, ·having lost a Colgate and. Plattsburgh. Scott Granger, Dave Stanland (also walked to· a first place finish at close meet to Hobart earlier this Remillard established a new fourth in the 500 meter), Brit- Boston College in the New year. school record in the 35 lb. ton,. and Phil Gist (who took England TAC Championships. A big congratulations to the weight throw at 14.68 meters. second in the 500m in 1:08.9). He competed in the 2 rirlle walk women's team in their recent (48'2\) takirigfirst in that event The final score was Colgate 75, and 'timed a 14:.28. Tomorrow victory over Sage. The women's and second in the shot put Union 59, Plattsburgh 29. The night he competes at Madison squadisnewthisyearanddoing (13.3lm). Mark Dunn followed men'srecordisnow1-3'asisthe Square Garden in the Millrose well, with a 2-{) record. Leading closely in both with third in the Women's record. Games. scorers include Lisa Freed, weight throw (12.57m) and Betsy Boutwell, Karen second in the shot (13.32m). Califano; Sharon Pearl, Sally Winston Britton set a new Carey and Robin King. school record for the indoor 400 . ' ~ . meter run With a time of 50:2 seconds and a first place. finish followed by Todd Allen's 53o 7 ' ... • ~ j ' • ' • • I > ' ' ' General students meeting interested for in trying out for the varsity baseba II team. Tues., Feb. 7 8 p.m. Alumni Gym Block U Room second thir.d place effort. George Capozzi set the third school record of the day with a 5.7 second 50 meter dash which gained him second place followed again by Todd Allen who placed third. During that race Allen fell after the finish and broke his foot in two places, ensuring his absence for the rest of the season. A command.performance was also made by Hill McRoberts and Bob Stenard who placed first and· second in the 3000 meter. Stenard, in his best race Winston Britton hands ofH>aton to Phil Gist in winning mile relaY. Britton also set schOol record in 400 meter dash. :>. .c 1,/) ro 01 :c u Q.l c: ..c: a. ro 0 :>. ..0 0 +- 0 .c: a.

