.e 0 ..c: 0. Cl) f1l -~ ..c u (!) c ..c 0. ~ ~ 0 15 .r:::. a. ,_; ci >.. ..Q 0 .... 0 ..c Q. c (].J LL \' \' ::l 0:: >- .0 0 +- ' 0 .c: (l <I' ro 01 .c u llJ c .c a. ro 0 >- .0 0 ... 0 .c a. CXlV, No. 2 York October 4, 1984 Schenectady Ordinance Effects Party Policy By .PETER MOHR staff take place Gfl a night preceding a class day must conclude by 12 Midnight.\ On weekends, campus social events \must cpnclude by 2 :00 A.M. The latter provision was actually in effect last year but was rarely enforced by the administration. enough to disturb Schenectady residents, Union College security will be expected to do one of the following: 1. Enter the party, request that the music be turned down, and begin to ruove people out as smoothly as possible. 2. Close down the party im- mediately. Assistant Dean of Students, Robert Massa, disct~sses Union's revised party policy. On September 26, Assistant Dean of .Students Robert Massa presented Union's revised policy concerning social events to the Interfraternity Council (IFC) for discussion. The primary difference from last year's policy is the establish· ment of \closing times\ for parties and social events on campus. The policy states that \All social events on the campus which are scheduled to The new policy arose from i'l Schenectady city ordinance, which was effected on January 1, 1984. The ordinance states that no noise sheuld be heard_ from any building between the hours of U :00 P.M. and noon on the next day. If the rule is not followed, fines of up to $1,000 may be levied by the city. In the case of Union, the campus organization which sponsored the social event would he liable for payment. The latter measure, however, would be used only as a last resort. The administration would _prefer to have a party close gradually. Massa has stated, however, that if campus organizations cannot control crowds or music, then they will find that the flexibility on the part of the College will be ''reduced. considerably.'' Food Employees Resign By JANICE GROSSMAN and LAURIE SILBERG Staff There is no scandal to be foWld among the simultaneous resignations of the Pub, Skeller, and West Dining Hall managers; rather, it is just a co incidental turnover in management due to personal reasons of three individual men. The new managers have made a smooth transition and continue to build upon the foundations laid by their predecessors. Although Jan Grey, Director of Food Services,. was in the position of having to fill three Director of Food Service, Jan Gray important positions at relatively the same time, she could not condemn her old managers for resigning. In fact she was quick to praise the jobs all the men had done as well as to express her hopes that they would be able to reach higher levels than would have been available to them at Union. Her concern with the opportunity for advancement for workers, at least the option for change, is evident in her new hires, for they all have bachelors and business backgrounds so that they can be of value in other areas of the college. Satish Ku:mar, the new manager of the Dutchhollow Pub, came from Bombay twelve years ago. He's had extensive experience in chain restaurants and is working hard at menu planning a.s well as helping oiit as ·chef until more workers are hired. His student WQrkers describe him as a quiet, very qualified man who would rather keep the Pub running smoothly as it presently is, than incorporating a lot of new policies right now. The previous pub manager Gary Salerno, has a wife and three young children at home. When a job came along with many benefits, including better hours, so he could spend more time with his family, he would have been unwise to pass it up. Salerno was on a very good rapport with his student workers -and had a hand in last year's \facelift\ of the pub. It was his innovative idea to add the T.V. screen which has enhanced the pub atmosphere. Frank Masterson, the former West College Dining Hall's Manager, served in the United States Navy for twenty years. Frank was not looking for a career. He was unaccustomed to working in a college situation. The many hours required at West took away . time he wanted to spend with his family. We now have two managers could grow and learn with. These are my reasons for leaving.\ The new management at the Skeller was nothired until one week before its· opening. 1'here are no majgr changes planned for the Skeller although new bands and entertainment are in the process of being scheduled. Tom Humphrey, the assistant manager, along with Spencer Wohlers, feels there will be less confusion as to closing time this year. A standard 1:00 A.M. last call ~ being established on weekends with a midnight last call on weekdays. Humphrey also mentioned that management is trying to lessen the emphasis on beer by providing a more varied menu of snacks. Although the old faces will be missed, the new management is working as a team to con- tinually upgrade the dining establishment at Union. at West instead of a manager and an assistant manager . \This lessens the gap in management,\ says Gray. Joe DiCarlo and John Rainey are in constant communication in order to ope1·ate West ef- ficiently. Di Carlo and Rainey both enjoy working with the student workers and receiving >- input from those eating at West. ~ Many changes have occurred.~ at West. The serving lines are E · According to Massa, ''the college does not want to prohibit students from having a good time. •:_ He stated at the IFC meeting that \We are not concerned abo~t parties going on after midnight as long as noise cannot be heard outside of the building.\ The ad- ministration will allow campus organizations a half-hour grace period after the official closing times; during this half-hour, the organization must make an attempt to reduce the noise from the party or social event. In addition to the establish- ment of these closing times, the social event registration form contains a new requirement. The names and signatures of the officers of the fraternity, . sor1>rity, or campus organi~ti<m who will supervise the distribution of alcohol must be provided. The ad- ministration feels that this rule will minimize the chance that any problems may occm at a party. If a problem should arise, concerning a drunk guest, then the people who signed the registration form will be liable. \The College does not want to prollibit students from having a good time.'' As long as a party is not ex- tremely noisy, it can continue after midnight or 2 A.M. If a party continues beyond the grace period and is loud Dean Massa DiscWlsi<m regarding the new policy was moderate at the IFC meeting; however, Roger Harris, president of the IFC, C()ntinued on page 4 being routed for less congestion. ·~ A new floor has been_ installed ~ and a new production chef ~ hired. West College is func- ....J tioning more efficiently with ~ each change made. E Jan Gray returned from her .[ . . ···-· ... -.--~~···\w;; vacation to find a letter of , _ , , resignation on her desk from Students kick off the newscho<ll yearatthe Rathskellar Brian Cotterell. Cotterell worked closely with his student co-workers at the Skellar. He left a letter clarifying his reasons for resignation, demonstrating his usual con- cern. \I was feeUng stagnant and in need of a change. I felt.that my personal growth had been slowed and I needed a job that I Serious Moonlight Tour -Page 14- Crew Wins Gmrnet ---Page 19-

Pagel CONCORDIENSJS, Thur.sdar. O<.•to1Jer4. 1984 ., tC :r:!! .c:: u CIJ c:: .c: c. 10 0 >- .0 E 0 .c a.. Student Forom met on Monday, October 1, for the second _time this year. Arts Revived :By EMILY LOOSE Staff From 5-6 p.m. on Saturday, October 13, in the Memorial Chapel, the Union College Art Club will perform a .series of musical and dance presen- tations .as an assertion of the vitality of the arts on campus. A resurgence of that vitality should be felt throughout the term and into the year with the re-emergence of an active Art Club and the completion of extensive renovation and reconstruction of the Arts Building. Hoping to attract new members and inspire more general involvement with the arts on campus, a newly organized Art Club under the direction of junior Mary Carroll plans several events designed for campus appreciation and participation. These events include possible trips to New York City to visit specific exhibits at the Museum of Modern Art, Metropolitan Museum of Art, or several small galleries, or to the Capital Rep Performing Arts Center in Albany, a highly acclaimed, federally funded regional theater which features several weekly exhibits as well as musicals and serious drama such as David Marnet and Tennesee Williams. The viewing of master works of film such as Federico Fellini's \La Dolce Vita,\ Orson Welles' \The Third Man,\ and Bergman's ''Fanny and Alexander\ as well as documentary art films may also be sponsored by the club. During the course of the year the club will sponsor two professionally conducted art workshops, one on the ap- preciation of pottery, with a visiting pottery instructor and the other a session in jazz conducted by Jeff Presslaff, a jazz pianist who teaches at Union. In the Winter term, the club will hold an art show to exhibit student works and will repeat its successful per- formance of this past· Spring with a second annual Spring Arts Festival. Though the club has not yet any set s~hedule of meetings, a directory of people on campus involved in the performing and visual arts is being compiled and should make these services readily available. T·he club wishes to stress, however, that members need not be artistic. The purpose of the dub ,is not to create art so much as to make the arts more accessible and enjoyable to the campus as a whole. With the completion of the renovation of the Arts Building, the campus will have a home for its arts both elegantly un- derstated and inviting. The first phase of the planned three phase renovation has been completed and the second phase will be complete by tile end of October or the beginning of November. This completed first phase consists of the con- struction of new stairwells in accordance with building code requirements for vertical circulation and access routes, the creation of a print.shop, and the relocation of the offices of the Arts Department Secretary and the Department Head, Prof. Daniel Robbins, from the second to the first floor at the newly situated main entrance. Two new doors were created for the facade in keeping with the original symmetry of the building, but only that to the left extreme of the facade will be used. The completi()n of the second phase now in con- struction will increase the space for dance by one-third and double the space available for photography, located on the second floor. The final renovation will also include a central enclosed courtyard rising all three stories to a skyligllt for the exhibition of student works such as those of the Art Club. The Union Arts Professors coordinated to plan the scheme of renovations to address their specific needs and then called upon architect John Mesick, a specialist in historic preser- vation now working on the renovation of the Blair House across from the White H()use in Washington, to create the renovation designs. The final result should be a rein- forcement of the original simple elegance of the Arts Building and the establishment of a motivated, inspiring, artistic environment on campus. An ad hoc committee has been formed to assess the tenurability of Bradley Lewis, Assistant Professor bf Economics. Persons wislling to contribute testimony con- cerning Prof. Lewis's teaching, scholarship, and/or collegiality may do so either orally or in writing. Please address statements or requests to testify to Prof. Charles Tidmarch, Department of Political Science, Social Scier1ces 215, (Ext. 6063). Other members of the committee are Profs. Janet Anderson (Chemistry), James Kenney (Economics), and Brenda Wineapple (English). An Ad Hoc ·committee consisting of Professors F.rancis Lam bert (Biological Sciences), Jan Ludwig (Philosophy), Ennis Pilcher (Physics), and Francis Federighi (EE/Computer Science), Chairperson, ~a.s been for~ed to evaluate the candidacy for tenurab1hty of Ass1s1ant Professor Gary R. Reich, Physics Department. An:s'one wishing to submit testimony in regard to Professor Re1ch's qualifications may reply in writing to any member of t~e Committee, or contact the chairperson to arrange an In- terview. Forum Starts Year New Proiects Begun By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Staff \At the last IFC meeting the issue of the Party Policy was raised. Though the IFC felt the policy was unfair, it could do nothing since we, and the college, are required to obey all Schenectady City ordinances,\ stated IFC President Roger Harris. \''However if there are n() complaints from neighboring residents about the noise problem, then there should be no problem with the policy.\ The recently announced change of party policy and other per- tinent issues were discussed at the last two Student Forum meetings. Bylaws The first Stuclent Forum meeting was held on September 24. After an initial half-'hour- of dosed session, the meeting was opened up to the general student audience. The writing of Forwn bylaws was the first issue brought up by President Steve Benson. He subdivided the byl~ws into five areas: Elec- tion-selection of forum mem- bers, Procedures of the forum, Specific functions of forllnl committees, CoC bylaws, and Finance Committee bylaws. The latter two of these sections was completed last year. The remaining areas will be handled by Doug Landon, Steve Bens()n, and Sue Brand, respectively. Benson next brought up the idea of the creation of a Student Forum Office. \It would provide a place where students could specifically come and bring their problems to the Forum.'' Benson then suggested making the use of tile SEA Club office on fourth floor Carnegie. A motion was made by Sue Brand stating the Forum's intent. The motion was voted on and passed unanimously. Dorm meetings Benson then brought up the proposal of having Forum members speak at dormitory fl()or meetings. \These meetings would serve to make the students more aware of the Forum and its activities,\ stated Trustee Shari Midoneck. It was also announced that a Public Rel-ations Committee was formed for this purpose. The committee is to be headed by Midoneck and Brand. Next to be discussed was Benson's proposal for a pep rally during Homecoming Weekend. As part of the affair, the Nott Memorial is to be lit up. The specifics of the event were to be announced at the following meeting. ''Take a Professor to Lunch,\' was the next area of Forum. discussion. Benson suggested that students individually take faculty members to lunch in the dining halls as a method to impro·ve faculty-student relations. Senior Represen- tative Mary Philips was assigned to work on a formal presentation of the idea. Last year's suggested idea of a class officer system was discussed. Andy George then announced that he would come up with a formal proposal for the next meeting. The issue was then tabled for the following week. Energy Conservation Trustee Shari Midoneck announced the formation of an Energy Conservation Com- mittee which would ''look into the various ways .students could reduce their electricity usage.'' A slogan for the campaign was announced: \Brighten the future for U, turn out the lights.\ More information will be provided at the next Forum meeting. Benson then announced that Forum meetings are scheduled for Monday evenings at 9:30 p.m. A motion was then made to adjourn. The most recent Forum meeting was held on October 1. First to be discussed was the IFC committee report. Roger Harris, IFC President, reported that the administration and IFC discussed the new Party Policy (See lead quote and Party Policy article). Presently there has been liberal enforcement due to the lack of area com- plaints. \Hopefully added Harris, \that situation will not change.\ Student Trustee Shari Midoneck then reported upon the progress made by the Energy Conservation Com- mittee. The official slogan (which was announced last week)· has been printed up on flyers which will be distributed to RA's, fraternity houses, and department chairmen. Midoneck also reported that after meeting with Jack Hill, Director of Campus Operations, possible plans rriay be made to reduce excess lighting and heat on campus. More information is due next week. Steve ·Benson then reported on the progress being made on the pep rally Homecoming 501 Hattie St. • 393 .. 0594 41/ A1 'Yew Weekend. The lighting of the Nott that evening most likely w1U occur, although a minimum cost of $600-$700 may be in- curred. However, Benson an- nounced that he was going totry to solicit funds from various on- campus sources. Senior Representative Lynn O'Brien enhanced Benson's report, stating that several speakers are schedUled for the event including President Morris, and quarterback Dan Stewart. An official .schedule is due next week. Tut(tring discussed The possibility of a tutoring system was then discussed. Sophomore Representative Julie Mountain was going to look into the possibility of starting a system by which Union students would tutor local high and junior-high school kids in various .subjects. Academic Affairs Representative Torn Megairan annoooced that the proposed system may interfere with the present tutoring ser- vice run through the AOP office. Mountain was going to check that possibility and report back next week. Class Officers Last year's proposal for class officers was formally written up and proposed by Trustee Andrew George. One section of the Union College Constitution would need to be changed. The amended section was then voted on by the Forum. George's proposal passed. Since · this proposal is a constitutional change, it cannot be formally adopted until approval by two- thirds of the voting Union populace. The proposal will be on the May ballot, during the Spring elections. Next to be discussed were the committee reports. The Finance Committee and Committee on Committees both held their first meetings this past week. Both of these initial meetings were for the purpose of orientation of the new members and the explanation of procedures. The Student Affairs Council (SAC) and Academic Affairs Council (AAC) have not met yet. Lastly, Independent Student Coalition • (ISC) Representative Adam Rossman went over upcoming ISC events including their voter registration drive to be held this October4, from 9:30 a.rn.-4 p.m. in Carnegie Hall. With no \New business\ to discuss, a motion to adjourn w~s made and passed. J::oo~ss .,_ 4 efitt, RESTAURANT AND BAR OUR NIGHTLY SPECIALS Molson $1.00 Rolling Rocks 2 for $1.00 Bud & Bud Lite $1.00 Sea Breeze $1.00 Chicken Wings 2 for 1 Sat. s p.m.-Close Sun.9 p.m.·l a.m. Mon. 9 p.m.-1 a.m. Tues. 8 p.m.-2 a.m. Wed. 7p.m.-1 a.m. Thurs. 8 p.m.-2 a.m. Fri. Reg. Happy Hour Iced Teas $1.90 2 for l Bar Liquor, Draft Beer , Happy Hour 4-7 p.m. Mon.-Fri. 2 for 1 Bar Liquor, Draft Beer Buckets of Wings, 50 pieces, 100, 500, 1000 .•• NO ORDER TOO LARGE G By~ BLA: Allian~ origina cultura awarer studen1 gone fl and we ther. 1 run in some o to spc politica maybe the Fi club's · The cannot based c the Stw Forum BLAS' the st awaren because tually may bE Financ1 .because Studen statemc politic a Acc01 chairpe Forum' promise out the the For if it ha: BethE Finance be the: Based e black : Union,: also organiz He respons not re studen1 would Minerv: Depart1 setting minorit women Bethe represe that the do mor1 Brian l FinancE that thE shoulde respon: would l make mitmen Dean not agrE provide take on u son ben T LaL on ' Hal foll1 c plec i u n mir diti gro Pri coli 1 dis of : The op~ wil: spa 'II spc vot Silt

.in- ~xt ~. to of ~r- ~k e e s s y ~ CONCOROJEN.~'J,f.,~ Thu;·.wiay, Octoht!rJ, 1984 Page3 Group Requests Funds ~-- • 4 !, 1 -%: ~ By .JUDIE STEINHARDT News Editor BLAS, the Black and Latin Alliance of Students, was originally formed to promote cultural, social, and political awareness of black and Latin students at Union. The club has g 0 ne far in achieving its goals and would like ta go even far- ther. The group however, ·has run into a problem because some of the events it would like to sponsor are somewhat political in nature and funding may be difficult to extract from the Finance Committee, the club's major source of funds. The Finance Committee cannot fund political events based on the guidelines set by the Student Forum. The Student Forum, however, accepted BLAS' constitution, including the statement· on political awareness. There is a conflict because when it comes .to ac- tHally funding events which may be pplitical in nature, the Finance Committee is hesitant because of the by-laws of the Student Forum and the statement that it is a non- political entity. According to Ira Bethea, co- chairperson of BLAS, it is the Forum's job to find a com- promise; it is ''supposed to iron out the difference.\ He believes the Fortun can make exceptions if it has to. Bethea also believes that the Finance Committee should not be the sole supporter of BIAS. Based on the unique nature of black and Latin students at Union, he believes funds should also come from other organizations within the school. He continues that the responsibility -of the club should not rest entirely with the student population. Bethea would like to petition the Minerva Committee, the Arts Department, or maybe look into setting up a special fund for minorities, like the one for women on campus. Bethea's view, presumably representing that of BLAS, is that the administration needs to do more for minority students. Brian Lame, Vi.ce President for Finance, agrees with Bethea that the administration Should shoulder some of the financial responsibility. He says, \I would like to see the school make some sort of com- mitment.\ Dean Massa, however, does not agree that the school should provide more funding, or even take on some of the funding that is already provided by the Finance Committee. He says that BLAS is a student activity and must be funded through the Student Forum. He adds, ''BLAS cannot necessarily speak for the rpinority com- munity at Union because there are minority students who do not belong to BLAS, who have no interest in BLAS.'' Massa believes BLAS has \admirable goals\ and administration will help them in ariy way it can, but specific funding 'for the club would be unfair to other student activities. BLAS is not going entirely unrewarded. It was granted its usual budget for traditional events. The group was allocated $2400, while the median of all organizations is $1750. Bethea is concerned not only about ''BLAS cannot necessarily speak for the minority community at Union because there are minority students who do not belong to BLAS, who have no interest in BLAS. '' funding the usual events, but he was hoping BLAS could par. ticipate in some new ones. He believes the funding will not be enough. Bethea was looking forward to new events such as attending a conference about South Africa, The Finance Committee said it could not fund these events because they involve a political stand. Bethea says that the members of BLAS did not take a stand, it was to be for their own political awareness. It states specifically in the BLAS constitution that political awareness is a goal of the group. Because the Forum has accepted the constitution, Bethea believes these events should be funded by the Finance Committee. BLAS realizes one way of alleviating the problem-trying to go through other committees to sponsor or co-sponsor the events it wot4d like. A gospel concert, for example, could partially or entirely be spon- sored by the Concert Committee rather than BLAS itself. The problem is that some of\'these events may not be appealing to the entire campus because they are geared toward minorities. Dean Massa believes it is a Sororities to Help Boys' Club Unions' Panhellenic Council, comprised of campus sororities, will be sponsoring a Jump Rope·A-Thon to benefit the Mont Pleasant Boys' Club. This community service fund raiser, headed by Laurie Silberg, will take place from 4:00 to 5:00p.m. on Wednesday, October 10, 1984, in front of Carnegie Hall. Refreshments win be provided immediately following the eventfor all participants. Club and Campus participants will be obtaining pledges at so much per jump or so much total for jumping. Individual students, faculty, ad- m i.nistrators 1 and staff are urged to pledge. In ad- dition each sorority, fraternity, or other campus group as a whole are invited to contribute collectively. Prizes will be awarded to the group and individual collecting ttie most in contributions. The Mont Pleasant Boys' Club serves three hundred disadvantaged youth of both sexes between the ages of six and sixteen. Coming to jump in the Jump-A· Thon will afford many of the members their first opportunity to visit a college campus .. The proceeds wil:l go towards the purchase of badly needed club sports and recreation equipment. Volunteers are still needed to jump, help get sponsors, and act as jump counters. To make pledges, volunteer, or for further irtformation contact Laurie Silberg at 370-6484 or 382·8768. very good idea for BLAS to work with other' committees. He sees BLAS taking up too much responsibility .. The group tries to do the job of the Concert Committee~ the Speakers' Forum, and several other organizations. He realizes the impossibility ·of this task, and believes it can be achieved muchmoreeff.iciently if worked in conjl:lllction with the com- mittees responsible for events affecting the college com- munity in general. Bethea believes he is being given a fair chance, yet he wishes some sort of a com- promise could be reached by the Student Forum. Also, he still would lik:e administration to \take a closer look .and see that they should: bring more events for minorities to campus.\ Bethea does believe the needs of his clul> are .special, however. He says that BLAS has been given its limitation, like any other committee, ''But the effect is more devastating for minorities in general\ on this campus. There is no prejudice \in terms of organizations,\ he says, but,\ \People don't realize .the effects the poor numbers have,\ He says minorities have a \very small support group living in a place that's predominantly white. The campus community takes a lot of things for granted when it comes to minorities.'' Laux is aware of the special needs BLAS demands. He says the Finance · Committee has considered \funding for social events we don't ordinarily fund for\ to meet these needs. The Committee cannot fund these events generally, but a com- promise can be reached. A decision is difficult, however, because Finance is \.not seeing acti()n by the college itself. We'd pick up some of the money if the college a!) proved it.\ The solution to this problem is · a compromise worked out between BLAS, the Finance Committee, and the Student Forum. All involved parties are aware of the situation, so a resolution should be reached in time for BLAS to ·act on it. '~ { f . '} ' ,. ' < \ -~ {· Vice President for F ina nee, Bri·an G .A Laux, discusses fL•nding for BLAS. Grounds Revived By DAVE MARIN Staff This stunmer, as in every summer, Union College's Physical Plant undertook a number of buildings and ground projects. The community may not be aware of just how much has been done. Over thirty major projects were completed or are near completion. This is in addition to the considerable routine sl.iinnrer maintenance WOf'k. Among the most visible projects were the Fox Lounge renovation (soon to be com- pleted) and the patio in front of West College. As part of the patio project, campus operations upgraded the in- ferior drainage system that had allowed leakage into the West basement. In response to complaints of safety hazards, Physical Plant removed the dangerous exit from the Fox-Davidson parking ,lot and added two new ones. It also closed off the passage frnmthat parking lot to the West lot. Also in response to student input the maintenance depart- ment upgraded the West bathrooms by installing new single faucet sinks, improving lighting, mirrors, stalls, and flool'ing. In its .final stages, the Arts building wilf soon have a dance studio and a large forum with a glass .roof. The work on that building is being done by a private contractor. The other major project being undertaken is the culverting of the brook near Achilles rink to facilitate the construction of a new paf'king lot and a road that will connect Caf'negie Hall and the corner of VanVranken and Nott streets. Both of those should be open to use in at least primitive status by the end of November. At that time, con- struction of the new college center that will be taking over Carnegie Hall can begin. The fruits of last year's lighting campaign can now be seen. l'wenty lights were in- stalled around the campus due to concerns about student safety at night. In the next few weeks, maintenance also plans to in- creasethe lighting capability of some already existing lamps on campus. Other projects were primarily safety oriented (reconstruction of. the sidewalk and stairs by Webster and in- stallation of fire detection devices) and appearance oriented (painting of North, South, and West dorms and sandblasting of Davidson). New Lighting Installed Campus Safety Improved ByEILEENO'CONNELL Staff It is brighter at night this fall as a resu:lt of work by the maintenance and security dep~rtments. Ifyou have an eye for detail, you will notice that additional lighting fixtures and standard light poles have been installed at various places tbroughollt ~ainpus. The illumination of less traveled wa1kways, parking lots, and especially Library Plaza, hopefully will improve the overall campus security system. Included on a list of priorities, trees formerly blocking light near Alexander Lane (that is, the road behindS & E have been cut back, improving visibility. As a test unit, a haliphane head has been installed on a pole near the west side of the Science and Enginee'ring complex. The halipbane fixture, replacing a traditional light standard, throws greater light down a path nearby. The department of maintenance is quite pleased with the mercury vapor luminizer, and has purchased twenty such heads. They will be mounted at strategic locations to optimize their usage. A flood light has also been recently mounted on an exterior w~ll of Acllilles Rink because of increased usage of the walkway connecting lower to upper campus. Library Plaza, a place of particular concern because of heavy traffic at all hours, is now well lit by ground units placed directly . in front of the Humanities and Social Sciences buildings. The ground units are very effective since they reflect light onto the common grounds giving wider and brighter' illumination. The impetus for the additional lighting came as a resqtt of several incidents which oc- curred in the past academic year. In response to concern expressed by the college ad- ministration as well as students, options were explored as to how safety might most effectively be improved. Students were encouraged to utilize the escort service provided at night if they were to be walking alone, and were alSo reminded that it is safer to walk with others. To supplement these and other measures, a lighting survey was conducted on March 27, 1984. The walk around campus was fruitful in generating suggestions as to places which required at- tention. Student input combined with the experience of security personnel to produce a list of viable steps to be completed expeditiously. With the installation of the new haliphane standards, all requirements will have been fulfilled. Security foot patrols will keep their eyes on the lookout for damaged or blown bulbs. Students may also contact the Security depart- ment if they notice any problems. As a cure-all, however, lights do not translate into absolute security. nor does the patrolling of campus by security officers forestall incidents completely. For student safety, recognizing hazards may be the best preventative measure that we can take. Avoid walking on the east side of the library between the tennis courts and the building itself, on the path around the football field, and generally in areas close and therefore accessible to main entrances. A more complete picture of areas to avoid is available on the walking map that has been drawn up by Security. The map points out places which are regularly patrolled by campus security cars, areas of student foot patrols, and most importantly, the hazardous areas. Students may wish to acquire a map and become familiar with it. </) 10 Ol .c u Q; t: .c: a. 10 0 > .0 0 - 0 .c a. f

Pt~ge4 S·Ki SAL-E CONCORDI!EN'Slf?. Thur.\·day, October 4, 1984 October 5th to 8th 1;'184 Alcohol Awareness Week Planned By SARAH CALDERINI; News .Editor the zip. On Thursday, October 11, the Rathskeller will take its turn and will not be serving alcohol. There will be entertainment both nights; however, the performing acts have not yet been announced. Also,. there will be giveaways and the Pub will be showing videos. 20to50% The National Association of Student Personnel Administration (NASPA) has declared the week of October 8- 14 National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week. This special week is designed to call at- tention to the need for continued joint industry and campus- based alcohol education programming. Also, NASPA hopes that students will con~ sider their own personal use -of alcohol. According to Assitant Dean of Students Robert Massa, \It's an eJij)erirnent on. our part-if it works, we might consider doing this a. couple of_ times per month,\ Faculty, staff, and students are all encouraged to par- ticipate in these special evenings. \The non-alcoholic dance during Orientation was a success,\ says Massa, \it will be interesting to see how this goes over with the entire school.\ Union College Food Service, -in conjunction with the Dean of Students Office, will be spon- soring -two non-alcoholic nights during this week. Tuesday, October 9, will find the Dut- chhollow Pub serving non- alcoholic specials such as dai uiris and sea-breezes minus HORiZON SKi Shop Rt. 5 iust west of Mohawk Mall An ad hoe committee has bee11 formed to consider the fenurability of Prof. Helen McDermott of the Modern Languages Department. Anyone wishing to submit .information relating to this review is encouraged to do so by contacting any of the following members ·Of the Committee: Dwight Phaup (chairman), Economics; John Boyer, Biology; Linda P11trik, Philosophy; or Anton Warde, Modern Languages Schenectady, New York, 377 .. 2676 Get to the answers faster. With theTI-55 .. 11. What you need to tackle the higher mathematics of a science or engineering cur, riculum are more functions - more functions than a simple slide,rule calculator has. Enter the TI-55-II, with 112 powerful functions. You can work faster and more accurately with the TJ,55~II, because it's preprogrammed !!:> 1983 Texas Instruments to perform complex calcula- the TI-55~U even simpler, tions - like definite integrals, and shows y()u how to use all linear regr~ssion and hyper- the power of the calculator. bolics - at the touch of a Get to the answers faster. button. And it can alsobe · Let a TI-55,II ..J; 2 programmed to do repetitive show you how. ........, problems without re-entering T.Ev·. A. 0 the entire formula. II ~ Included is the Calculator INSTRUMENTS Decision-Making Sourcebook. Creating useful products It makes the process of using and services for you. An ad hoc committee • has been formed to consider the tenureability of E Iizabeth C. Duncan, ·Asst. Prof. in the Library. Anyone who wishes to submit in- formation to the com- mittee may do so either by arranging for an interview or sending :the information in the form of a letter to Prof. L.A. Hull, Department of Chemistry. Need A Job? Hale House still has plenty of shifts open to .fill your needs. You need not be on work-study to apply. Anyone may work! We Need You! Policy Affected Continued from page 1 has stated that he does not like the new rules. The· policy \leaves too much leeway in the hands of the administration,\ he states. Harris feels that the administration may change the new rules at any time, \Granted they don't feel they have a lot of choice due to the city ordinance.\ Last year,· Union's party policy was designed by mem- bers of Union's fraternities and sororities and was found to be acceptable by the ad- ministration. Harris feels that even if members of these houses, as well as independents, had been consulted when the new policy was developed, the result would not have been much different. This is due to the fact that any committee would have to work around the 11:00 P.M. provision in the city ordinance. . Regarding the enforcement of the new rules, Harris ~eels that a \strong effor,t could be made\ on the part of Union's frater- nities and sororities to adhere to them. Similar to Massa, he notes that the extent of such enforcement wlll depend on the number of complaints received from citizens of Schenectady. - I Thr cours Unioll of a Natio Hum~ The \The Spani Undc: Centt desigJ philo: artist Amer cultm MartE chair ment, event illumi thew Gra Profe ( Hist1 (Eng! (Soch (Polit Krebs and :M the De par and s' the in year, Lipto1 Depar valual sessio of ab year. The fa cult: includ anddi Marte will th coursE under topicf fa cult: each pleme and irJ as we schola Uni1 projec funds, availa \An M 10 Jo 12: 2 ~ ~ 7:1 Ti 9:: 12: 2:~ Pr 4:( 6. ·. Me w 12: Me 3:~ Ch 4:3 Lo 7:~ .Tt 12: 1 :3 Ch 2:3 Pa 3:3 Fr 10: ShE

its the yet of an it per par- a will this is to he of an, in- an rm .A. of of )Ur .ike icy the rt,\ the the 1e, tey ;he 'ty m- nd be d- if 3.S m ~y Ld t. lY ·k •ll ·- 0 e 1 CONCORDIENSJS, Thursday. o,:toher 4, 1984 Page 5 Humanities Endorsed for Latin Studies By DOUG LANDON Three new interdisciplinary courses will become part of Union's curriculwn as a resUlt of a $90,000 grant frqm the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH). The trio of courses, titled \The United States and the Spanish Speaking World: Understanding Twentieth Century Connections,\ is designed to ex:amine historical, philosophical, literary, and artistlc relations between the American and Latin American cultures. According to Harry Marten, associate professor and chair of the English Depart- ment, it will ' 'focus on issues, events and · persons which illuminate interdependencies of the world.\ Grantees named Grantees for the program are Professors Manfred Jonas (History), James McCord (English), Martha Huggins (Sociology), Byron Nichols (Political Science), Catherine Krebs (Modern Languages), and Marten. Judith Ginsberg of the Modern Languages Department was an \organizer and source of energy\ during the initial planning stages last year, Marten adds, and Jack Lipton of the Psychology Department was \useful and valuable\ at early planning sessions. Ginsberg is on a leave of absence from Union this year. The NEH grant supports faculty time to prepare courses, including reviews of the tex:ts and discussions with each other. Marten expects the grantees will themselves teach the three courses, with each having an understanding o.f all three topics. Assignments of two faculty members to instruct each · course will be sup- plemented by frequent visits and input from the other four, as well as outside writers and scholars. Union is cost-sharing the project with $40,000 of its OWn funds, making a total of $130,000 available to the grantees. \Anglo-America and Spain: The Spanish Civil War,\ \The United States and Spanish Speaking America: Sharing a Hemisphere,\ and \The United States and the Hispanic Population Within Its Borders: Cultural Identity and the American Dream\ are scheduled to be taught fall, winter, and spring terms, respectively, beginning next year. Courses develop awareness The grant also ;provides for two consultants of international merit to meet with the faculty for a two-day workshop before the start of each co11rse. All three Humanities courses are open to both majors and non-majors, and will carry \A'' or \D'' liberal learning credits. Their objective is to develop new awareness for Union students, by broadening per- spectives and revealing similarities within the two cultures. \Latin America is the future,\ Marten said, \and the third course is essentially one in Chicano and Puerto Rican cultures in America and how they relate to cultures already in place.\ The courses should \allow Students to test strengths and weaknesses and draw conclusions, \he added. Marten suggests that the NEH accepted Union's .proposal because of the college's \history demonstrating a capacity for innovative education. We will do what we say we can do.'' Union was the first college to offer modern languages to undergraduates; it developed the Freshmen Preceptorial, and it boasts an extensive and unique terms abroad program. College's support The grantees' proposal was submitted to the NEH under the heading \Innovative Teaching for the Hwnanities,\ and a letter from Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea confhmed Union's commitment to the idea. This is important, ·Marten explains, since \the first few years are crucial because they take more SCHEDULE Michael N. Papadopoulos Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow Union College • October 8-12, 1984 Monday, October 8 10:30--American Enterprise Abroad (History 118, Prof. Joseph Finkelstein, 55110)' 12:00--Lunch: Prof. Dean Katahira, Dept. of Chemistry 2:20--E.thics (Philosophy 42, Prof. Robert Baker, HU116) 7:00--Dinner: Home of President and Mrs. Morris Tuesday, October 9 9:30--Coffee: Prof. Leatrice Mendelsohn, Dept. of Arts 12:00--Lunch: Chemistry Students (Dutch Hollow Pub} 2:30--Economic Growth and Development (Economics 43, Prof. Harold Fried, SS117J 4: 00--Career Development Center 6: 30--Advance(J Decision Ana lysis (Administration and Management 282, Prof. Donald Holmes, BH207} Wednesday, October 10 12:00--Lunch: Professor Dorothy Sherling, Dept. of Mathematics 3:30--Public Lecture \High Technology and Environmental Change\ (Milano Lounge} 4:3.0--Reception: Student Environmental Alliance (Milano Lounge} 7:00--Dinner: Residence of Professor and Mrs. Harold Fried Thursday, October 11 12:00--Lunch: lnterRational Relations Club 1 :30-~Mass Media and Politics (Pol.itical Science 169, Prof. Charles'Tidmarch, SS110) 2: 30·- Experiences of .Technology (Philosophy 77, Prof. Linda Patrik, H U112) 3:30--Field Hockey: Union v. Williams . Friday, October 12 10:30--Linear Algebra (Mathematics 411 Prof. Dorothy Sherling, BH 205) time away from the faculty members.\ The NEH is \very wary of giving money to one- shot, fly,by-night deals,\ and needs to have a pledge that the college is firmly behind the project. \These courses really will have a place in the general curriculum at Union,\ Marten said. Professor Harry Marten, Chairman of the English Department, talksabouttheNEH Grant. Dr.ink Alternatives Found (CPS)-For the first time in memory, University of South Carolina students who are under 19 can't drink this fall. The result, as USC officials concoct a way to enforce the new 19-year-old drinking age the state just adopted, seems to be a sort of chaotic uneasiness. Officials can't even decide how student groups should pay for alcohol consumed at social events, since using activity fee money would be \unfair\ to under-19 students, says Mike Shaver of the Campus Alcohol Project. .Even the campus bar is changed. The Golden Spur is replacing beer with pizza just to avoid the hassles the new drinking policy creates. Wild rumors, closed-down campus haunts, job losses and even complete overhauls of college social activities have been marking the first weeks of school as scores of colleges open up for the first time under new legal minimum drinking age laws or tougher on-campus drinking policies. Many experts worry the new regulations are confusing, ill- planned and virtually unen-· forceable. Alcohol, moreover, is so closely associated with college life that many students simply don't know how to spend their leisure time without drinking, says Charles Tucker, a University of South Florida sociologist. The rising drinking ages and tougher campus drinking rules nationwide are ''sure to cause concern and turmoil on many campuses,'' adds Gerardo Gonzales, a University of Florida counselor and director of BACCHUS, a national group aimed ·at controlling student drinking. It's \a situation that ad- ministrators realistically cannot enforce,\ he asserts. If schools are going to make the new rules work, they need to provide alternative social ac- tivities, says Tucker. Without help, students are left to entertain rumors of un· dercover campus police in· filtrating dorm and rush parties to catch undetaged drinkers. That rumor was so widespread at Arizona State that ASU police two weeks ago had to issue a public denial to reassure students. And University of California· Berkeley administrators last week chastised the student newspaper, the Daily Californian, for running an article that told students how to get fake i.d.s to obtain liquor despite the university's newly adopted restrictions. _ On some campuses, new drinking rules are costing students their part-time jobs. At the University of Illinois- Champaign, local bar owners recently predicted as many as 150 students could lose their part-time waiting and bar- tending jobs if the town government decides to require · all liquor servers to be 21. Some observers even fear the new crackdown on student drinking could boomerang, forcing younger students to become ''underground'' drinkers. Left with no place to legally drink on campus, they warn under-aged students will do more off-campus drinking, more drinking and driving, and be less inclined to drink responsibly. \Most of the campus drinking programs are community-wide . programs that deal generally with all students,\ notes Howard Blane, professor of education and psychology at the University of Pittsburgh. \There's been precious little research done on such programs, and of the little that has been done the results aren't very encouraging,\ he says. The nationwide trend to raise all drinking ages to 21 has \shifted the focus from alc:ohol education to policy en- forcement,\ Gonzales com- plains. \We encourage alcohol education and responsible drinking, rather than blanket prohibitions,\ he says. But blanket prohibitions seem to be the trend these days. While 23 states had minimum drinking ages of 21 a year ago, this fall the total has climbed to 27, with a number of states still debating-or planning to debate- . -raising their drinking ages to 21. And with a new federal law which will withhold federal highway funds from states that haven't raised their drinking ages to 21 by 1986, college students can expect further clampdowns as the remaining 23 states with under-21 drinking ages rush to meet the deadline. \I imagine we'll see some pretty hot legislative battles in the coming year,\ says Bob Bingaman, director of the State Student Association ( SSA) in Washington, D.C., which has helped student governments nationwide lobby against drinking age hikes in their states. \I personally think (raising the drinking ages to 21) is un- fortunate,\ says Pitt's Blane. \If 18-year-olds are allowed to vote, fight in the military, and sign contracts, they should be allowed to drink. We're simply driving student drinkers un- dercover.\ Boosting the drinking age, in fact, may not deter student drinking at all, according to a University of Cincinnati study. \~y..-<. \THE ~\..MEDIA ADVANTAGE Of THE INCUMBENT\

Page6 CONCORDlENSIS, Thur.\·dar, 0£'1fJber 4, 1984 . . To: AU'Meinbers of the College Community ·. FOUR SEASONS CHINESE REST4URANTi ·~ s ~ . . ~ ~ OfJI' Phone: 393-5440/393-5441 . .Ji ..$ Seclso 11 s . • From: The Search Committee for the Director of Schaffer Library Re: Campus Visit of Candidate Ms. RJ~th A. Fraley, one of the candidates forthe pGsition of Direotor of Schaffer Library, will be on campus Thursday, October 4. In order that as many members of the college community as possible have an opportunity to meet her, she will be in tbe Faculty Lounge in the Humanities Building from 1:30 p.m. to 2:30p.m. and in Room N116, Science and Engineering Center, from2:45 p.m. to3:45 p.m. Specialize in Cantonese, Szechuan& llunan Hours: Sun-Thu. -11:30-10:00 Fri.-Sat. 11:30-11: oo i. NoH rrrace ·c: :;:) Take Out of or Eat in We're in Walking Distance We prepare our foods with Just a Little Bit of Luck •• 0 and a Whole Lot of experience Challengin·g Engineer.ing Positions With Professional Growth Ms. Fraley is presently Head of the Graduate Library for Public Affairs and Policy·at the State University of New York at Albany. Her previous experience includes several years as head of. the Technical Services section of the Schenectady County Community College Library. She received her MBA from Unionin1981 and her MSLS from SUNY Albany in 1966, Her detailed curricwnm vitae is available at the Circulation Desk in Schaffer Library. 'The Search Committee urges students and faculty members to come to meet Ms Fraley at either (or both) of the scheduled times. Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, Portsmouth, New Ha;mp- An ad hoc commit.tee has been convened to consider the tenurability of Martha Huggins, Assistant Professor of Sociology. Committee members are Joseph . Board., Department of Political Science; Charles Scaife, Department of · Chem·istry; Eugene Schneller, Department of Sociology and Institute of shire has openings for: Electrical Engineers • Mechanical Engineers The Shipyard's assigned mission is to modernize, refuel, convert and repair Nuclear Submarines. Work involves design, development, and _. testing of submarine systems and equipment. Career advancement to iourneyman level paying over $26,000 within 2112 years if-hired at GS-5 and 1112 years i·f hired at GS-7 leveL BS Engineering degree and U.S. Citizenship required. Benefits include 13-26 working days paid vacation, 9 paid holidays, 13 working days paid sick leave, outstanding retirement prog.ra rn, choice of health & life insurance programs. Portsmouth Naval Shipyard was established in 1800 and employs over 9,000 employees. The Shipyard is a leader in the lifeacycle maintenance and modernization of nuclear submarines and offers unparalleled challenge and opportunity. Portsm.outh Naval Shi.pyard is located in the_ heart of vacationland. All season sports and other activities are ava-ilable within minutes. The Shipyard Recruiter will be on campus on October 11, 1984. If you cannot make this interview and are interested in employment, submit your resume to: Industrial Relations Office, Code 170.5, Port- smouth Naval Shipyard, Portsmouth, NH 03801. Portsmouth Naval Shipyard is an Equal Opportunity Employer. EE, CS or Comp. E. Candidates (all levels) HARRIS/RF has the good jobs Administration and • Management; and Ruth S t e v e n son { c.h air ) , Department of English. · All who wish to offer their views about Huggins' teaching, research, and college service may write to any member of the commit'tee or contact Stevenson, ext. 6206, to arr-.nge an interview. · IU :.1: I ..I fa Harris Corporation is a Fortune 200 with annual sales of $2 billion and a world- wide reputation for superior communication, information systems and microelectronic products. Harris/RF Communications Group is the technology leader in the design, manufacture and installation of sophisticated HF and VHF/UHF radio communication systems. Continued expansion and several new product developments have created a career envirc>nment where you can apply your learning ... and where your skills will be challenged, recognized, rewarded. Typical openings involve: Digital & Analog Circuit Design; Product Development; Software Design; Systems Design, Test & Integration. VCR RENTALS* r.l > IU :.1: ROCH.ESTER has the good life You'll find the living hard to beat-a truly successful blend of high-tech industrial might with a low-key modern lifestyle. Freedom from urban pressures and pollution, plentiful housing at reasonable rates, year-round cultural and 4-season recreational attractions, excellent restaurants_ No wonder that in a study prepared for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency that Rochester ranked 6th in the nation- the only community East of the Mississippi- for outstanding quality of life in economic, e.nvironmental, health, education and social factors. Our Representatives will be on campus: Thursday (October 11) Contact your Placement Office for further details or to sign up. HARRIS CORPORATION, 1680 University Ave., Rochester, NY 14610 We are an equal opportunity employer, M/F/HN U.S. Citizenship may be required HARRIS IFIT'S HAPPENING IN ELECTRONICS, IT'S HAPPENING AT HARRIS. 5.95/day Weekdays 8.95/day-Weekends WEEKEND SPECIALS 14.95 Sat.-Mon. includes 2 movies with this ad & I D 24.95 Fri.-Mon. includes 4 movies with this as & I D 1\1 *Deposit and positive ID required ::r: n1 * Reservations suggested < M-F 10~9 t; Sat. 10-5 8 S! n1 Now accepting part-time applicati.ons ..._. \:lr -=--=~ < M i:f.ic Vii>io conncCi:iOn \t\lways One Step Ahead\ \ 123 Canal Square, Schenectady I ..I a I ..I u IU c c 8 0 IU Q > IU :.c . ., a I ..I ~ c c 8 2 Q > IU ~ I ..I 8 3 ~ ,., 382-3896 'Cl n.. ·ViilCO <onnscti011 .. c 0 ttic Vio~ conniect\~ - - - - Ill Ill Q) I- ll. +- +- 0 u (/) >- .0 0 +- 0 r:. c. Direc ]] The place Union probl~ the Accor (!irec Cente cente1 orWOI despit that consi< just educa Ace proxii the ( wee)r ~ - • .. c l. of J:;e· fudge Doot ~ep a: ICEC ~ --

g d r s y \ to of ee ph. of of of of th ), 1 te to , \) u IU c c 8 ·ra 0 > IU :.1: . ., ~ (3 > IU :.1: I .I ~ .... u IU c c 8 0 IU Q > IU :.1: .... ~ .I &I CONCORDIENSJ!<.J: Thur.<idllJ~ 0ftober 4. I 984 Pagel If) If) OJ \1 ll. +- +- 0 u Vi > .D 0 +- 0 ~ 0. Director of Counseling Center, Donald Spring FEATURES ••willi:am Ke:nnedy's Albany'' By BETSY TREITLER Features Editor The people of Albany hailed their own William Kennedy in a four-day celebration designed to reveal some of his creative secrets which culminated in overnight success. Ironweed won the hearts of city neighbors and critics who bestowed upon Kennedy the MacArthur Foundation Award. Later, Ironweed received the Winner Circle Award and ultimately the Pulitzer Prize. Kathryn Gibson of SUNY Albany's . Capital District Humanities Program read a few of Kennedy's novels and sought insight into Ken- nedy's intermingling of fiction and reality. Recreation, The Albany Institute of History and Art, Albany Public Library and Capitol Hill Improvement Corporation. Discussing Problems Gibson approached Kennedy hoping he would agree to participate in the program. A sm.He and a gleam in his eye reflected delight. He spoke about his creative processes and presented slides of Albany at the turn of the century. Kennedy's approach to writing, as Gibson noted, has been to 'look at the .past and write it as the future.' His novels are populated with people of his past whose personalities have been tampered with by the author to emphasize distinctive qualities. Consequently, his novels are a mixture of reality and speculation of what might have been. Doris Grumbach, a well known literary critic and novelist, initiated the honorary celebration by 'exploring the relationship between Kennedy's novels and their locale.' Grumbach resided in Albany during the 1960's and knew Kennedy through community and social functions. She previously reviewed his novels and therefore was able to discuss his works and his position among other authors in Albany. Gibson, coordinator of the program, started arranging the celebration after Ironweed won the MacArthur Foundation Award. She sensed Kennedy's \need to treat people fairly and kindly\ throughout her meetings with him and per- ceived the \vitality and vigor\ of his personality which she noted had been conveyed in his novels Legs, Billy Phelan's Greatest Game and Ironweed. Kennedy clearly \loves to write\ said Gibson with respect and admiration for the man Wh(' defied critics, who were not impressed with his early work, and transformed his personal interest into a prestigious career. ByDAVEFITZGERAW Features Editor The Counseling Center is a place where any student at Union can discuss any type of problem with professionals in the field of counseling. According to Donald Spring, the director .of the Counseling Center, the·students that use the center can discuss any problem or worry that they have. Spring, despite some of the myste:r:ies that surround counseling considers counseling to be \ ... just another part of the educational process.\ According to Spring ap- proximately 65 students go to the Counseling Center each week and over the acad~mic () 0 oo year approximately a couple hundred students use the center. Spring feels that the Counseling Center is \a nice place to · do counseling with students and a nice place for students to go.\ Spring wants.to stress that the students that use the Counseling Center are just like any other students on campus. \People that come here are non-different. There are no differences of ap- pearance, grade point averages, or anything else that can distinguish a student that seeks counseling .at the center from students that do not.\ Four people work at the Counseling Center, two full- time male professionals, one full-time female professional, A VJhoJe ripe banana with2 b~ scoops of 5en &cJerry:S Ice Cream: homemade ~t , fudge . .M&M~, fre::h :Jtrawberries, and walnuts. Doi!t you think the banana~ts cold? Th heep you and ihe banana covered we'll throw ina spiffy J::en&tJerry5 hat ffJr $15° when you buy a ba:mma split. Good a.t participating, &en &J\erry_ 6tore.s -whlle ~p1iesla&t. and a receptionist. When a student seeks counseling he-she can ask to see any ·Of the three professionals. Request .for certain counselors are taken because like anything else a student may prefer one of the counselors over the others or a student may just not feel comfortable with a particular person. Usually on the first few visits to the center there is ner- vousness. \Most people are nervous but that is usually overcome.'' In fact '' ... not everyone comes out feeling great after a visit.\ When serious topics are being discussed or values are being weighed much thinking and personal evaluation takes place. Counseling is something that the student must elect to do, \. . . it certainly cannot be forced.\ The Counseling Center is a place where students can \learn about their lives\ and discuss things on all topics that concern them. If a student is worried about something or. feels that he-she is having aproblem with alcohol or drug abuse, there is a place where help can be found on campus without any stigma attached. That place is in the Counseling Center. The program, which lasted ·from September 6-9, featured activ·ities such as a panel discussion about Albany's past and future. Prominent people of Albany, such as Mayor Thomas Whalen III, assembly man Richard Conners and John McEneny, author of Albany, Capitol City on Hudson, offered their insights in the discussion. Other activities ranged from a tour of Albany highlighted by exhibits depicting historic and contemporary Albany to \An Old Fashioned Sunday in the Park\ giant lawn party reminiscent of the 1930's gala festival with ethnic foods, live bands and dancing. The celebration was welcomed by Albany residents and was co- sponsored by the Capital District Humanities Program, the Times Union and The Knickerbocker News. It was supported by a variety of organizations including the -Albany City Arts Office and Department of Parks and Kennedy's ultimate com- mitment to writing is perhaps best demonstrated by his founding and directing The Writers lnstitute. The Institute is subsidized partially by the MacArthur Foundation grant of $15,000 per year for five years to an institution of Kennedy's choice. His purpose for the Institute: to enrich amateur writers on the undergraduate and graduate levels by bringing some of the renowned writers to the Institute to conduct seminars about writing and read smples of their own works. The sudden recognition of Kennedy's novel roused the City of Albany by inspiring intellect as well as interest in historic and contemporary culture. This demonstrates the value and excitement of literature. Kennedy's Ironweed, in par- ticular, appeals to so many people because it deals with ordinary people. These people are especially attractive because the author added . a touch of creativity thereby reshaping each personality to convey different impressions. The result: a conglomerate rich in the beauty of innocence and satisfaction in addition to the bitterness of reality. Ultimately, the reader is left with a partial appreciation for life and the author's indelible question mark a:{ter WHY? TheRA Clan's Experience The R.A. experience is a rewarding and exciting one. After only a few weeks the R. A.'s have already learned some of the basic fundamentals that go with the job, such as: -Don't say \Please don't let there be a fire drill tonight\ because of course then there will be. -If someQDe on your floor gets sick-don't worry, you'll know about it. They'll be sure to do it within the vicinity of your door, or at least within hearing range. -ALWAYS knock on doors, but especially on Fri. nights, before checking during a fire alarm. On the serious side, if you are a dorm resident and need someone to talk to for any reason, feel free to approach your R.A. Sometimes they may seem busy but that is because they are students too. You will be surprised though to find how willing most of them are to put down what they are doing to help you out. Just remember that their rooms do not serve as hotels or all-night lounges to be dropped in on at 4 a.m. for the fun of it. The R.A. sometimes has to play the role of rule- enforcer which can be a c!ifficult before the floor residents task. It is not easy to fine a arrive. The R.A. clan spent friend on the floor, but it is the three showerless days in the R.A. 's responsibility and must woods reviewing their be done. responsibilities and practicing This year there are three up on their skills. (Rumor has it resident directors-area coor- that one R. A. still hasn't dinators to supervise the R.A. 's. showered!) Then the R.A. 's In charge of West, North, and sped back to Schenectady, Richmond is Marguerite eager to share their abilities Sharkey; J. Bebbs supervises with their floors (and only one the R.A.'s in Fox, South and got a speeding ticket!). They Hickock, and Kent Avery takes are still eager to help as they care of Davidson and Webster will be all year round. If an R.A. House~ The \big cheese\ is the can't help you, he-she will refer Head of Residence Dave Wood- you to someone who can, and it is he and the coordinators that keep everything confidential if train the R.A.'s and keep Union necessary. housing running smoothly. So go to an R.A. today-they R.A. training begins even are ready to helP you. An ad hoc committee has been formed to evaluate the tenurability of Douglas Klein, Assistant Professor of Economics. Committee members are Professors Prosper (Economics), A. Taylor (Mathematics •• Un- derw~od (Political Science) and Marten {English). Committee Chair. Those who wish to offer their views regarding Professor Klein's teaching, research, or college service are invited to write to any member of the committee. or to contact Professor Marten (ext. 6231) to arrange an interview.

til Ill ()! .c u <I! c: .c: 0. ro 0 >- .0 0 .... 0 .c: 0. Page8 CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, October 4, 1984 FEATURES English Professor Alan Nelson is Director of the newly established Wiriting CE~Rter. A Day. In The· Life By TONY PALLONE Another brisk, gray, rainy Wednesday morning from my window here at Hickok House. My rootrunate still asleep, I have just twnbled out of bed at 7:50 a.m. I have an 8:30 class. Resigning myself that someday I want to make lots of money, I find my towel and duffel bag, and go down the hall to the shower. It looks as if no one ,else has an 8: 30 class on this brisk, gray, rainy Wednesday mor- ning. When I get back, I find the door to my room locked. Unfortunately, my underwear doesn't have a pocket for my key, and I must wake up my sleeping roommate. He, suffice to say, is upset with my per- formance. Nobody told me' there'd be days like these. After getting dressed, which seemed like the thing to do, I opened the dorm door to start on the incredible trek to class at Social Sciences. It .is no longer rain, but a small hurricane that has suddenly come up which is the obstacle. So my wnbrella is no longer any good, if I opened it now I might very well he jetted to the top of the Nott. we do. Another- thing bothers me about this place·: You would think that the symbol of this ancient 200-year-old institution, the monumentous Nott memorial, could be something besides \the bookstore.\ I mean, when people come from around the _world (or at least frorn New England and the Tri- City area) to see this magnificent haven from Schenectady, they are first and foremost impressed with the Nott. Then, when they ask the Gatesman what goes on there, heorshe says \Ahem ... er, well, uh, that's the bookstore.\ Great. Improve Your Writing At the end of class, I decide maybe it'stime to visit old West dining hall, a place I haven't gone to since last year when I lived one floor above it. I figure breakfast should still be going on, but of course I find neither eggs, sausage (or what they're calling sausage), or anything else substantial still available because it's now \continental\ breakfast time. That's great. 9:30 a.m. and they close up shop. There's hardly anyone here. And where did all these strange pictures come .from? I guess theytre more interesting than old, dingy, disgusting gray walls, but not by much. Here's one of a see-through heart, complete with veins and all, under which is the caption ''LOVE.\ That's sick. I just lost my appetite. I'm leaving. Anyway, my next class is at 11:30, so I have time to go to the Library. Upon entering, my first thought is, Who are these people that work behind the Circulation desk? Of course, that's all my thoughts, since there's nobody here. Everybody always says how the Library is such a great social place. I'd strike up a conversation with a librarian, if I could find one. I had more fun at the bookstore. By DIANE DUFFY Writing is often a difficult and painful process for many un- dergraduates. In order to get students and their other members of the college com- munity with their writing, Union ·college has recently instituted The Writing Center as service on campus. Located on the second floor of Stoller Hall (Old Chapel), the Writing Center will officially open Wednesday, Oct. 3. The Center is directed by Professor Alan Nelson of the English Depart- ment who devoted much time and effort into its establish- ment. The intention of the Center, Nelson explained, is to assist students and others in the writing process. As such, he views the Center as \a congenial and supportive place where writers can talk to other writers about the process of composition.\ Nelson stresses the fact that the center is for 'Writers of varying abilities, strong or weak and assists students in all types of writing endeavors, including term papers, lab reports, resumes and theses. It is hoped that students will not view the Writing Center as a last resort in crisis moments. \Changes in writing means changes in deep habits and ways of thinking,\ Professor Nelson explains. Quick grammatical \fix-ups:\ will not help. students in the long-run and is not what the center in- tended. Thus students who visit the Writing Center on a regular · basis are more likely to develop new attitudes toward and greater understanding of the writing process. The idea of a writing center on campus was first suggested by Vice President Thomas D'Andrea. To gain further in- sight into the workings of such a service, Professor Nelson visited the writing Center of several colleges in the United States. -The center at these schools, which included Carlton, Lake Forest, Bucknell, Franklin and Marshall, Skid- more, and Michigan Technical Institute, were treated with much enthusiasm. Professor Nelson felt the centers were \very welcome and very well supported by the ad- ministration.'' He was especially impressed with the writing service at Bucknell College which in- stitutes a program known as \Writing Across the Curriculum.\ According to this program, writing is a required routine activity in almost all courses. \This is important,\ Nelson stated, \because it raises both faculty and student con- sciousness about the ways in which writing can be used as a means of learning thesubject matter. We must get over the notion that all writing is just term papers and theses. Writing is an experience for all sub- jects.\ The Writing Center is ex- pected to be in full operation by the first week in October. The staff of tutors consists of Professor nelson, eight students, and Ms. Sandra Longley, assistant director. The staff is anxious for the opening of the center, which they hope will be seen as \an agency for the encouragement of growth in thinking and writing.\ The Writing Center will be opened Monday thru Friday from 2-4:00 and Sunday thru Thursday from 7-9:00 or by appointment (x6084). One thing I've always won- dered is if there is a factory of some sort where some of this campus' girls get their hair done. If there is; it must have people working night and day at making one side of their hair shorter than the other. The clothes ·fashions are interesting too: the idea seems to be to obtain as much junk as your closet, and one or two of your friends' closets, can possibly hold, and then to ask for more, I don't know, but if the guys start· doing it, I think we'll be in trouble. (.' Big Brothers/Big Sisters After that, I begin to wander aimlessly about this aimless campus. The dogs are still here, in full force, as well as the cats that come out of nowhere in the middle of the night. A group of freshmen are convening outside the entrance to the bookstore. In this world of rapid technological innovations and increased higher consciousness, it seems· to me that we coUld come up with something more sophisticated than the following three. questions: ''What classes are you taking this tenn?\ the one says to another. \What's your major? Do you like your professors?\ Such is life, I guess. The freshmen are here again, and they sound just _like Anyhow, I guess it's time to leave the Library and take off for class. I'm sure I'll have a good time. I have another great professor with an accent, which is great so I'll be able to do imitations of him. After calss, I'll head for Hale House-we privileged sopho:rnores are finally finding ·out the joys of split-level dining and of pictures of people whose identity no one knows-that was denied us last year. It's gonna be a great day . An ad hoc tenure committee has been formed to report on the tenuability of Assistant Professor Michael Dellaria. The members of this commiHee are: Professors Manfred Jonas (History), Frank Milillo {Mechanical Engineering), Barry Smith (Arts), and Robert Baker (Philosophy), Chair. Anyone wishing to submit written testimony or to give oral testimony for the committee should contact the Committee Chair. Welcome back Big Brothers- Big Sisters. We hope you had an enjoyable summer. The Big Brothers.;Big Sisters Executive Committee this year include: Rebecca Clemente, Jackie Jones, Jennifer Sconyers, John McCormick, Dave Ebbitt, Sandy Nagler, Dave Hanifin, Patti Richards and Jay Baruch. These volunteers will be planning activities and making sure our program runs well on campus. Any assistance you can give them will be ap- preciated. This fall, the Sunday Group Program will run as follows: October 7, October 14, October 21, October 28, November 4, November 11, and November 18. The time for the Sunday Group Program will be 1 :30- 3:30 p.m. All Group volunteers are asked to arrive at 1:15 p.m. on Sundays to greet the children as they arrive. If you have not had your Group interview, you must schedule it with our office. If you know of other students who are interested in our program, please ask them to call our office fer more in- formation (374-4523). HAYRIDE-Friday, October 26 at George Van Etten's Christmas Tree Farm. There will be a campfire, hot dogs, and lots of fun! All Bigs and their Littles are invited. For more details, call our office, 374-4523. Please contact your Little Brothers-Little Sisters as soon International Relations Club -First Fall Meeting- Tuesday, October 9th 7:30p.m. • 112 Social Science Planned Activities For The Year Model United Nations Simulations and War Games Speakers Program New & Returning Members Welcome For more info contact Prof. Clifford Brown (X6070) or Prof. Brian Klunk (x6225). as possible. It has been a long summer and they are looking forward to seeing you. Please call our office if you cannot reach your Little Brother-Little Sister for any reason. NEW PHONE NUMBER OR ADDRESS? Make sure you let us know, call374-4523 as soon as possible. Thanks. The Writing Center • 1s now open Located in the second floor of Stoller Hall (Old Chapel) HOURS Mon.-Fri. 2-4 Sun.-Thurs. 7-9 or by appointment ext. 5084 The First Yearbook Meeting TODAY: Thursday, Oct. 4th 7:30p.m. in Yearbook Office (4th floor Carnegie) WE NEED YOUR HELP - - 1 1 Fo th< dis del Thi Oc1 Ch; I ca1 rei pri fis~ rigl uni pas is e for me ref in sirn nee eco ent1 lr ,.. .. p res) res) his bini ann \Tl Jok will gen all< nuc: Sci Rea Whe offe1 punt blac the)' pre~ Den Ami Seri ever all Pre! be a advi fron nam tom Veg; WI

hers this ~ott \ I rom east Tri- this ~om and the the ere, at the my the ody is I'd a I of ing to bly I in to off a ~at do ss, of ~es CUNCORD/ENSIS. thursday. 0l'tobt'r·.J, 198;1 Page 9 FEATURES ·Health: The Common Cold John Anderson, 1980Presidential candidate, speaks at Union By SHERRY WEITZEN Staff Almost everyone knows those annoying symptoms that ac- company the comrrwn cold. First the nose stuffs up, the threat begins to feel scratchy and sore; before too long, you just feel awful all over. Mom may have some secret remedy; for tJole most part, nothing seems to cure a cold better than Third Parties Discuss.ed The Union College ~peakers Forum is pleased to announce that John B. Anderson, distinguished politician and debater, will be speaking on Third Party Politics on Friday, October 12, 1984 in Memorial Chapel at 8:00p.m. During his congressional career, Anderson bo>ldly represented the ideas and principles of social .reform, fiscal responsibility, human rights, and national unity. This unique blend of social com- passion and fiscal responsibility is exhibited through his support for the Equal Rights Amend- ment, campaign financfng reform, and Open Housing incentives, while simultaneously recognizing the need for strengthening the economy and the American free enterprise system. In 1980, John Anderson decided te seek the Republican nomination for Presidency. A strong performance in the debates and in primary voting in Massachusetts and Vermont brought him to national prominence. Despite a growing and enthusiastic constituency, Anderson determined that he could not attain the Republican nomination. He then decided to pursue an independent course. As he stat'ed in his an- nouncement address, the in- dependent campaign offered Americans a much needed alternative and made it possible \to conduct a positive effort to articulate positions and policies capable of leading our country into an era of growth and achievement.'' Since the 1980 campaign, Mr. Anderson's activities have centered on a common theme: the ·need fot a new · political entity that would challenge the two old parties dominance of American politics and en- courage the introduction of policies based on the needs of individuals rather than those of special interest groups. To that end, John Anderson joined with other concerned Americans to form the National Unity Party, and has pledged himself to the restructuring of the American political system in a quest for long term reform rather than short term personal gain. Tickets are on sale at the Student Box Office in Carnegie HaU-$2.00 for students and faculty, $4.00 for the public. There will be a reception in Milano Lounge immediately following the speaker for the first twenty-five people who sign up ort a list in Mrs. Marra's office. So sign up and meet John Anderson! The News In Brief By BOB VAN VORIS Staff Reagan Rmmdup President Ronald Reagan, in response to the overwhehning response this past summer to his · joke concerning the bom- bing of the Soviet Union, has announced that his new book, \The President's Favorite Jokes,\ has been published and will soon be available to the general public. \Of course not all of the jokes are centered on nuclear holocaust,\ said Mr. choice of RepresentaHve Geraldine Ferraro originally won him a great deal of acclaim from leading feminists, it seems that even among this group there have been significant defections recently. When asked to comment on this trend, the candidate responded, \i' d like to make a clean breast of this thing . . . well, I mean, we have a ticket with broad appeal, er ... what I'm trying to say ... Gerry and I are intimate at all times, and while it's important for me to be on top of things where she's concerned .•. \ Ms. Scientists test invention .at Union's Sexual Prosthetics Lab. Reagan. Indeed they are not. When asked if some might be offended by jokes with such punch-lines as ''. . . send the blacks back to Africa where they prompter into a tree,\ the president replied, \Well some Democrats, maybe, but no real Americans. Ha, ha, ha . . . Seriously, though folks. I think everyone understands that it's all in good fun.\ While the President's book is expected to be a very hot item, presidential advisors have dissuaded him from his plans to change his Ferraro's only public statement on this issue was, \Oh shut up Walter.\ Watson Competition Competition for the prestigious Watson Fellowship, a $10,000 stipend, allowing winners to spend one year abroad, will begin this week With the preliminary evaluation of applications, according to Professor Doug Petit of the Economics Department. name to \Shecky Reagan\ and· The Watson offers one of the to move the White House to Las most valuable learning ex- Vegas. . periences available to the Mondale's Troubles , college graduate, at least in the While' Walter Moridale's .. r opinion·ofone·past\Winner from Union. \Yeah its really great,\ says 1982 Watson Fellow Randy Guccione. In addition, Guccione offers some advice to this years applicants. \Choose some place real remote. You know like New Guinea or Madgascar or something. Someplace where they've never seen a white person I mean, remember all those lines that never worked in the Pub or the Metro? Try this one out: \Would you like to be impregnated with the seed of the Sun\God?\. Sure, its kind of gross when they make human sacrafic-es to you, but what the hell. The sex is well worth the inconvenience.'' Special Offer Want to make a million, but too stupid to think of anything original? Not to worry-our staff of professional resear~ chers has compiled an exhaustive list of concepts, ideas, and visionary plans in hundreds of fields which YOU can use to become FABULOUSLY WEALTHY. How about these? Gandhi 3-D Scratch and Sniff Pornographic Centerfolds, Turntables For Your Car Stereo, Becoming Pope in Ten Easy Steps, Weight Loss Through Eating Less and THOUSANDS more. Some of our more successful ideas in- clude-\The Inevitable Victory of Socialism Over Capitalism\ (a Mr. K. Marx), \E- MC '2 (A. Einstein), and \Invade A Small Caribbean Island Claim a Major Military Victory But for God's Don't Mention Lebanon\ (R. Reagan). Write for your catalog TODAY. IDEAS UNLIMITED, c-o Leroy \Junior\ Burdell, Iowa Men's Correctional Facility, Tier 3, Cell 5, Grenelle, Iowa 06491. time. The common cold affects more than one billion Americans per year, at least once. Colds are caused by one or more of a variety of viruses. These viruses invade the body and conquer the cells of the mucous membrane in the nose and throat. The infected ceHs cease to function normally, and start producing more vims cells rRichard Williams, Smithsonian) . It has been found that there are two classes of viruses that are most com- monly the cause of a cold: the rhinoviruses, which are more prevalent from the last spring to the early fall; and the corona viruses, that occur in the winter time, and generally do not last as long. (Good Housekeeping) The symptoms of the common cold which are mentioned above are the body's reaction to the chemical changes as the virus takes over the cells and the body tries to fight the takeover .(Michael Skoler, Glamour). The virus triggers an infected cell to produce histamine. Histamine dilates the blood vessels in the nose which consequently cause a runny nose and eyes to water. It also affects the tissue in the nose, making it swell and become stuffy. One of the most common medications recommended for a cold sufferer is an an- tihistamine which will coun- teract these symptoms, although it does not kill the actual cold virus .. (Current Health 2) There are many many stories of how one can catch a cold, but the truth is that the only way to get a cold is to be infected by a cold virus. This does not happen by a sudden change in the weather, or by going outside with wet hair. It has been found that kissing cannot likely be a transmitting action of the virus. The cold virus can survive on the skin and nonporous surfaces and is therefore transferred by the hands of an inflicted in- dividual to the hands of someone else, either directly, or by touching the same surface. If the virus is on the hands, an individual can easily rub his eyes or nose, and the virus has found its way into the body. The reason why colds tend to occur more in the winter is because people tend to stay inside more, . increasing the opportunity to catch a cold. (Michael Skoler, Glamour) There never has been a miracle cure for the common cold, although scientists have found that inferon, a chemical made naturally by the body, can stop the virus from reproducing itself and not have any effect on the normal healthy cells. I Skoler, Glamour) It is questionable whether i 1terferon can be used to prevent a cold from happening. (''Interferon Blocks Cold Virus,\ Science News) Zinc compounds also have an antiviril effect and. possibly a way to beat a cold. Good Housekeeping) The more common remedies for the common cold do not really cute the body of the virus but rather treat the symptoms. Because the body naturally produced interferon that combats thse viruses, time will eventually cure you. (Skoler, Glamour) There are may drugs that can relieve some of the annoyan<;es of having a cold. As mentioned before, an- tihistamines counteract the histamine made by the body. drying up a runny nose, but they may cause drowsiness. Also, there are many types of an- tihistamines, that can have other ingredients in them which may cause other side effects. Alcohol is commonly found in antihistamines, and increase the drowsiness effect. Some have caffeine to reduce the sleepy feeling. Phenylprop- nolamine, which helps shrink the nasal membranes is also found in diet pills and causes nervousness, possibly in- somnia, dizziness and headaches. It is recommended not to drink alcohol or take depressants when using an- tihistamines, or drive. (\Stop that Drip,\ Current Health) Other remedies are aspirin for aches; hot liquids, which can speed up the flow of mucous, thus clearing the nose more quickly; plenty of liquids for dry mouths due to not being able to breathe through the nose; and eating spicy foods, clears the nose of sniffles. Against popular belief, vitamin C does not prevent one from getting a cold. (Skoler, Glamour) Cold season cannot really be avoided but the symptoms can easily be relieved. Effective June 1, 1984 The Security & Safety Phone No .. was changed from 370-6178 to 370-6911 New York University Visits Your Campus to Answer Questions on the M.B.A. Program \ Located in the heart of the Wall Street area, New York University'~ Graduate School of Business Administration has trained student~ for executive positions for over 60 years. A recent survey by Standard & Poor's ranked New York University number 2 nationwide as the source of graduate education for chief executive~ in major companies. On Thursday, October II, an admissions officer will be on campus to discuss the quality and flexibiltty of the graduate business program. Check with the Office of Career Develop- ment for sign-up schedule and furt.her information. New York llmversttyts an afftrmati ve action/equal opponuntty mstttullon.

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, Thursday, October4, 1984 <lllltlfllrbtrnsis FoUI'tlln/ at Un1011 Col/~ 1877 ------------ --------~- Picnic Questioned On Tuesday, Sept. 18, the College, in conjunction with Orientation Conunittee, held an all-campus picnic for faculty, staff, administrators and students alike. In theory, this gesture was quite commendable. A bringing together of the new freshman class and the rest of the college community is a great way to in- doctrinate the Class of '88 into the College. This bringing together of freshmen and upperclassmen during Orientation was also a wonderful idea,for in the past the College has insisted on keeping up- perclassmen away from the freshman class until the day before classes were to begin. This has always seemed a ridiculous idea since upperclassmen can be of assistance to freshmen who are learning their way around. Granted, freshmen should be given a few days to themselves on campus, but Orientation should mean orientation to the entire College ... and that means to all students as well as to the College itself. Again, this year's Orientation Committee did attempt to correct thfs situation with its all-campus picnic, however, something went wrong. The distribution was done in a haphazard manner. Unless someone was at least 5'10\ tall, acquiring . a hamburger was almost out of the question. Of course, there were exceptions to this rule, like if a shorter person knew someone 5'10\ tall, but not many. The person with the longest arm and biggest shove got the most food while others were left . with nothing but potato salad. Apparently, the whole operation was mishandled. There were no lines, just pandemonium. What was conceived as a good idea, was sabotaged by poor planning. Concordiensis hopes that the College will not blame the idea, but rather the planning behind it. It is hoped that the Orientation Committee will keep the all- campus picnic on its schedule in future years, but that it will consider more viable ways of maintaining the crowd and distributing food equitably. Party Problems The administration does not want to \prohibit students from having a good time,\ according to Dean Massa. The issue, of course, the new party policy that has been written, signed and sealed. The administration is a bit mistaken, however, if it feels the need to defend itself on the issue of whether or not the students will be stopped from \having a good time.\ They won't. What must be realized is that, despite rules, laws, ordinances, and pressures, students will drink and have a good time. In a college as pressurized as Union, students are bound to go out and drink. The problem is not when they will be allowed to party but where they will choose to do s9. A drunk and in- toxicated student on campus grounds is far safer than an intoxicated student off campus grounds. There is far less chance of attacks upon students or cases of drunk driving when the student needs only to walk {rom the doml to a party than from a dorm to Slap- shots or Rupsies. There is, of course, the other side to the story. We realize the administration faces a serious dilemma. A $1,000 fine is nothing to ignore nor shotild the com- plaints from our neighbors and the Schenectady police be shrugged off. The administration does appear to be handling the situation well. There is an official policy on paper and an unofficial policy that will be practiced. The IFC and Panhellenic Councils appear to understand the school's stand. Problems remain, however. As Roger Harris, president of the IFC, stated, \There is a lot of uncertainty that we are dealing with.'' Should the administration choose to enforce its policy to the letter sometime in the future, there is little if anything the students can do. We can only hope that- the ad- ministration realizes the serious consequences of such action. We also hope that students on campus realize the tightrope that the school is walking. Parties can continue late into the night if the noise level is kept down. Parties, believe it or not, can be fun without being excessively loud. So, please, at parties, renaenlber: Ssssss~! LETTERS M . c ... d anners ntictze ·· · To the EtUtor, On 18 September I attended the faculty meeting and the campus picnic opening the new College year. At the meeting Professor Byron Nichols argued eloquently that Union, despite its academic excellence, has lost manners and spirit. I agree with Professor Nichols. I wish he had added manner to manners, for I believe that spirit derives in substantial extent from both manners and style. A short time later at the campus picnic when I ap- proached a table to get a hamburger I was pushed, elbowed and my feet were trodden up.on as soon as a tray of hamburgers arrived. I was not singled out for this treat- ment; this wasthe way in which students treated each other. The result was that larger students (mostly men) emptied the tray and smaller students (mostly women) go( nothing. I abandoned the attempt to feed rnyseJf, noting, however, that most of those who thrust themselves ahead were taking second helpings. Their ap- pearance indicated they had been adequately nourished before arriving at the College~ So much for manners. The picnic had been going on for about an hour before I arrived. Not only was the ground near the Nott Memorial heavily covered with paper plates, cups and food, but waste had also been discarded onto tables where food was laid out. So much for manner or style. I must here confess that my older teenage son says he does not understand why I am distUrbed by such behavior. But I believe Professor Nichols's remarks must be taken most seriously by the whole College co:tnmwtity. I will not attend another campus picnic. Sincerely, Francis L. Lambert Professor of Physiology Summertime Blues To the Editor, During this past summer the Union College Maintenance Department went to some college-owned fraternity houses and threw away furniture, rugs, and refrigerators owned by individual fraternity brothers. The items that were removed were kept in the rooms that the . brothers live in, no different than in past years. In past years this same furniture was left intact. The lack of any type of warning to the fraternities combined with a past history void of furniture removal over swnmers left the fraternities that suffered losses completely unsuspecting and Wlaware. Had these houses been warned that furniture would be thrown out surely they would have taken proper action to store this furniture elsewhere in their houses and would have it for this fall term. When asked why the furniture was taken, George Paige of Maintenance said because it was in poor condition. Whether the furniture was in poor con- dition or not, it must be realized that the furniture was not College property and therefore Science and Engineering Sophomores Are you interested in a year of studies in Switzerland? Now is the time to apply! If you are Dean's list and have enough German or if you are willing to take German for the Winter and Spring Terms and then to take an intensive Goethe Institute course in Germany, you are eligible to apply for the one · nominated Union student for 1983·84 year at the 11 MIT\ of Europe. This honor is recorded on your file at Union College. Please inquire of Prof. Martin in Chemistry at the Science and Engineering Center soon! the College had no right. to take it. Then Paige said that the furniture was· removed so that the rooms could be cleaned. It Is fine to remove furniture · to clean a room. Why, however, was only non-College owned furniture removed to clean rooms? More importantly, why is it necessary to take the furniture out of the rooms, down the stairs, and into the dump- ster to clean rooms? It would have been less of an effort to take the furniture into halls, clean the rooms, and put the furniture back. · It is our opinion that in the matter of furniture removal in College owned fraternity houses that the College acted unfairly and therefore improperly. We return to these buildings year after year and when we replace our furniture, carpets, and refrigerators we will replace with the same quality. The College could not have hoped to solve any problem by removing our things. We do not believe that the College acted responsibly in respect to its tuition-paying students. On confronting Dean Massa, Robert Burke of Delta Chi was Editors-in-Chief News Editors Features Editors Commentary Page Editor Arts Editors Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Associate Sports Editor Advertising Editor Photo Editors Sports Photo Editor Subscription Editors told that there was no way the school would replace 'missing' furniture. When Dean Massa was told why we feel that this is unfair, he said that legally the College was within its limits and thal we are powerless. He said the world isn't always fair. Because ~the world isn't always fair is not justification to violate student's rights to property. Dean Massa was right . Legally the fraternities are close to powerless in this matter. It is our firmest con- viction that the College should do .more than what they have determined as legal limits. We have written this letter because it is the last possible course of action left to . us. We hope someone who cares about how the College handles situations such as this one will make an effort to correct this immediate problem. More importantly, we hope appropriate measures are · taken so that nothing of this sort happens in the future. Signed, The Brothers of Delta Chi The Sisters of Delta Gamma The Brothers of Delta Upsilon The Brothers of Sigma Chi The Brothers of Beta Theta Pi bttnst~ Marcy Burstiner, Gayle Rosenfeld Sarah Calderini, Judy Steinhardt David Fitzgerald, Betsy Treitler David Frantz Brian Laux, Linda Raffaele Jill Kaufman, Karen Ruga PaulKurker, Lynn O'Brien Doug Baumgarten Heidi Rosen Daphne Chigas, Larry Kaminsky Pat Merritt Mitch Bernstein, Jim Campbell Staff: Mickey Bradley, Ted Cannon, James Delaney, Colleen Dundon, Alex Gardner, Bob Greaves, Janice Grossman, Andy Hodgkin, Dave Marin, Peter Mohr, Eileen O'Connell, Jim Ot- tley, Jennifer Paston, Tony Pellone, Steve Piraino, Karen Roth, Lauren SaWlders, Bob Sharpe, Laurie Silberg, Chris Siler, Mickey Soley, Janice Thomson, Aaron Toffler, Bob Van Voris, Sherry Weitzen, Scott Wykoff. CONCORDIENSJS Is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box: 388, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-3526. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as first class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per copy, $18 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. · CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS) and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). Office telephone· 376-6155 - - - - - - Tot w stud mun appr theJ redu rela1 Unio cam soci< the trad colle dese we fE colle 1 A~ coul< oute~ Co for l the : reas< rigor To th1 In 1 cordit altern on U This v term ment8 timet the cl campi are a Jacks1 by Ga lot bet Wells was tc In the discov chang (about an al gained facult3 suppo Forurr repres studer therm< which Union only8l signed the 8 To the I an hopeful proble upperc: Davids course of mas: Fox-Da lot. Th: judgme two thi large i years i men wi of a ne out fivE In m univers

CONCQRDiENSIS, Thursday, October 4, 1984 Page II Early Last Call? To the Editor, COMMENTARIES Campus Changes The members of the Student Environmental Alliance are very concerned about the proposed changes. to the Union College Campus. Upon con~' fronting the administration, we We believe respQnsible students of the college com- munity share the concern and appreciate the genuine effort on the part of the administration to reduce or eliminate the alcohol related vandalism and injury at Union. The effort to unify the campus and promote freshman social involvement by reducing the role that alcahol has traditionally played In . the collegiate social circle .is also deserving of praise. However, we feel the legislation passed by college officials concerning the 1 AM closing of college bars could result in a detrimental outcome. most tend to fulfill their class requirements from early evening to late night. After academic obligations are met, most students seek social in- teraction amongst their peers. The college bars have ac- comodate-d these students until 2 AM in the past. By reducing the availability of these establishments by one hour, people are forced to reschedule their social education. Many may rush through the academics in order to maintain their social involvement. Others will continue to come out later, and when they are forced to leave at an early hour, may seek their entertainment elsewhere. This means that people will venture outside the college community to local bars, and other non-college supported establishments. Since driving will be the. primary means of tran- sportation, many will come under the jurisdiction of . the Schenectady Police; rather than Union College. Still others will risk catastrophe on their journeys to, and from their destinations. The College name may then not only appear on the sports page, but also in police files and possibly in the obituary columns. . have uncovered many details · concerning some 9f the changes that will damage the aesthetic beauty of the campus. These proposed changes consist of the following: 1) a toad that would extend frorn the intersection of VanVranken Ave. and Nott St. through part of Jackson's of the 106 spaces now existing adjacent to physical plant, and 27 spaces lost behind Carnegie Han when the new campus centeris built. Because of the parking space loss, the ad- ministration has proposed the two new parking lots. However, the administration seems to have forgotten the enormous parking lot behind Richmond dorm. This spacious, yet seldomly used, lot can presently accomodate 130 spaces. With some work, we estimate that it could accomodate 190 spaces. Based on our observations of a typical day at Union, about 40 spaces of this would be left. This can easily make up for the spaces which will be lost due to the proposed additions to the college. We recognize the fact that some grass will be lost by expanding the Richmond lot. However, it is not nearly as aesthetically pleasing as either of the two proposed areas. Also, it is a fraction of the space occupied by the two areas presently proposed as parking spaces. College students are notorious for keeping late hours during the school year. Perhaps the reason for this is that given the rigorous academic schedule, To the Editor, In this edition of the Con- cordiensis is a copy of \An alternate proposal to cpanges on Union College Campus.\ This was issued late last spring term by the Student Environ- mental Alliance. It was at this time that we became aware of the changes planned for the campus. Among these changes are a road through part of Jackson's Garden, a parking lot by Garis Field, and a par.king lot between .McKean House and Wells House. The construction was to begin over the summer. In the brief time between our discovery of these proposed changes and spring finals (about 2 weeks), we developed an alternate proposal which gained widespread student and faculty support. Our proposal is supported by the Student Forwn, the elected body which represents the undergraduate students at Union. Fur- thermore, we drew up petitions which were exposed to the Union College copnnunity for only 8 hours and over 500 people signed. them. We don't expect the administration to in- SEA Proposal dlscriminantly discard their plans. We merely want them to consider the alternatives seriously and address them fairly. Despite our overwhelming support, the Union College administration has gone ahead with some of their plans, they have started to build a road through the Gardens and are beginning to construct a parking lot by Garis field. Why are these changes being made? The administrators don't live nere, and certainly don't use the Garden as much as the students. Why alter the physical appearance of a place, when the inhabitants are clearly against it. This brings to light important · questions which must be ad- dressed by the student body. Do we really have any input into major decisions affecting our campus? Does the ad- ministration really consider the wishes of the students? Are we anything more than products to be churned out of their 'factory' social and financial profit for the college? Social education. has traditionally been a part of the , Union experience and should be accomodated. Mark Twain may very well have been visiting Union when he wrote, \I never let my schooling get in the way of my education.\ John Moretti Curtis ~ohnson The administration is not wholly to blame. The students aren 1 t questioning things as much as they used to, they're just accepting things. An at- titude of \well it won't matter in a few years I'll ·be gone\ is widespread. We believe its time the students of Union began to get active again, to really open up a better communication with the admministration. If we consider that they built this road against our wishes, what else can they do, dig further into the Gardens? Close the Skellar? Basically, they can do whatever they want. So what can we do? To begin with we'd like to see the students letting the ad- ministrators know how they feel about things. How about picking your favorite administrator, whether its Dean Mammola. President Morris, John Hauser; etc., let them know how you feel about this issue, whether you are agafnst the road, partial to the road, or want them to build a superhighway. We feel it's time the students spoke up. Sincerely, The Student Environmental Alliance (SEAClub) Parking Dilemma To the Editor, I am writing this letter to hopefully bring to light a dire problem confronting many upperclassmen living in Fox- Davidson dormitory. I am of course referring to the problem of massive overcrowding in the Fox-Davidson student parking lot. This overcrowding, in my judgment, is a direct result of two things in particular: 1) a large increase over previous years in the number of fresh· men with cars. 2) The building of a new driveway which cuts out five spots from last year. In most other colleges and universities that I am familiar with freshman are not allowed to bring cars to school. These institutions, unlike Union, have the parking facilities to ac- comodate the extra vehicles but they choose not to do so. Why? You may ask. The reason that these schools do not allow fresh- man to have cars is because they want these students to adjust to college life and in- teract with each other as much as possible. Cars on campus provide a tool for freshman to avoid this process. In addition to this, having a car keeps the student's mind off school work. It seems that the ad- ministration of this college has neglected this point. Since Stephen Ades, a member of the Class of 1986, died as a result of an unfortunate accident during a visit to a national park in Utah late this sum mer. A resident of Great Neck, New York, Mr. Ades was majoring in English at Union. He is survived ·by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Ades, and four· brothers, Joseph, Michael, David, and William,. and in the many memories shared by his friends on the Union campus. Union is a relatively small institution it would seem logical that the administration would want to promote freshman interaction to the rnaximwn. ·There are those that will say that the College does a pretty good job at making freshman interact as evidenced by the mandatory 19 meal plan; however, if the school wants to allow freshman to bring their vehicles to school then they should enlarge the parking facility behind the Fox- Davidson dormitory complex in order to accomodate more vehicles. If this proves to be impossible, then freshman should not he allowed to have cars on campus. For those who say that this is just upperclass snobbery, I say to them that it should work like the lottery principle. Seniors on down through freslunan get priority. When it comes down to it, upperclassmen should have the right to park cars on campus before freshman. I sincerely hope something is done about this problem soon because it will only escalate to greater proportions by the Spring. A Concerned Sophomore Garden to the new campus center. . 2) a parking lot between McKean House (KA and Wells H9use 3) a parking lot by Garris Field To many of the people here at Union, the school is a haven from the city life of Sclienec.,. tady. The spacious lawns and beautiful gardens offer an escape from city streets and the hustle of city life. Yet, the ad- ministration is planning to dig up some of these areas and fill them in with unappealing pavement. We would like to keep Union as aesthetically pleasing as possible, and we believe that the proposed changes are unnecessary. First of all, the ad- ministrations' proposed access road will definitely take away from the beauty of Jackson's Garden. The noise and air pollution created by trucks constantly going to and from the new college center will be damaging to the vegetation and detrimental to the beauty of that area of the Garden. There are already two major roads which give access to Carnegie Hall. One that goes along Alumni Gym and the other which goes between the fieldhouse and the hockey rink. Granted these may have to be altered for the increased use, but this seems to be a small sacrifice consiQ.ering the potential damage to Jackson's Garden. Secondly there is the issue of the parking lots. From our estimates, the school will be losing approximately 140 parking spaces with the existing plans. This includes 60 parking spaces lost by the extension of Alunmi Gym, approximately 53 Interestingly enough, the administrations' main reason for building these parking lots is one of convenience. However, if the women who live in Rich- mond, who pay thousands of. dollars to come to school at Union, can walk from that area to anywhere they have to go, there is no reason why school empleyees, visitors, and other students cannot walk from there as well. Recently, the administration removed a dumpster near Psi Upsilon because it was an eyesore, yet now they are willing to pave over grass fields to make parking lots. The grounds of Union College, the gem of Schenectady, should not be paved over out of con- venience only. For almost two- hundred years this college has existed, designed at its in- ception to have a classically pleasing aesthetic design, and soon almost none of the original intent will be left. We urge the administration, students, . and faculty of Union College to stop these proposals from being carried out. Sincerely, The Student Environmental Alliance Is there an MBA in your future? LEARN MORE ABOUT AtnosTuck ·school at Dartn1outh College College Seniors are invited to experience a day at Tuck this Fall • Sit in on first and second year classes • Talk with students • Discuss admissions, curriculum, place- ment, financial aid • Tour Tuck's excep- tional facilities • Meet with an Admissions Officer • Be Tuck's guest for breakfast and lunch For more details, check with your campus Placement Office or call Tuck Admissions Office (603) 646-3162

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, ThursdaJ, 0£\tober 4, 1984 THE ARTS Renowned Opera Soprano Leontyne Price performed at Proctor's Theatre last Saturday, Sept. 29 at 8 p.m. Music in the air • . . l. Price Plays Proctor's: The Price is Still Right By JENNIFER B. P ASTON Staff Metropelitan Opera soprano Leontyne Price, universally regarded as one of the .greatest artists of our time, enchanted an audience of opera buffs and laymen alike on Saturday night at Proctor's Theater. The Mississippi born Julliard graduate does not believe that there should be limits on what classicallytraihed vocalists can do; she certainly proved this in her recital. The program began with a selection of Mozart pieces, followed with songs by Strauss. She continued to thrUl the already spellbound audience with a rendition of \Un bel tli\ from Puceini'.s Madame Butterfly. Versatility Demonstrated model. Each phrase is delivered with expression. Every note is perfectly placed and on pitch. Committee Gets Underway Miss Price demonstrated the full extent of her versatility in the second half of the program with her performance of Liszt's French art songs, songs from a variety of American composers and Negro spirituals. It never seemed to matter if she sang in Italian, French, German or English; the message was always the same. From her first glorious note until the last resonant tone of her third en• core, (\Summertime\_ from Gershwin's Porgy and Bess) Leontyne Price astounded the audience with her rare and unique talent. One can never see her breathe, and, most importantly, she makes it all look easy. Leontyne Price, however, is more than a singer. Though she has received 17 Grammy awards, two Emrny's, the Presidential Medal of Freedom, and numerou.s international awards, she is also a great humanitarian. She sang at the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty signing ceremony and at the welcome for Pope John Paul II. The lifetime member of the NAACP holds honorary degrees from Harvard, Yale, Dart- mouth, and Columbia. She has held benefit concerts to fund the Leontyne Price Library at Rust College in Mississippi. Miss Price has thrilled audiences from the Met to La Scala. It was wonderful that she decided to stop off in Schenectady. By MICKEY BRADLEY Statf With the 1984-85 academic year now well underway, all of Union's extracurricular clubs are back in swing, and the Concert Committee is no ex- ception. Co-chairman Ken D'Orazio (partner Pete Hut- chinson is spending this tetm in London) and his committee are currently hard at work looking for bands for the upcoming year. The process of scheduling a concert is a constant barrage of back-and-forth between the committee and concert promoters. Since Union holds most of its major concerts at Proctor's Theater in Schenectady, a third entity becomes involved-and Proctor's has a heavy schedule of its own this year, leaving few dates open for the Concert Committee to work with. Therefore, anything is likely to happen when planning a concert to prevent it all from coming together. Thus, though D'Orazio admits that he is currently working on an act for Homecoming, he is quick to note that it is not too early for anything to happen. A concert like that would probably cost around five to six thousand dollars, but bigger- name acts can easily cost twice that. Funding, however, is not a major problem for the com- mittee. It is budgeted by Student Activities and is ex- pected to lose money on most of its events. But the Concert · Committee has faced many problems in the past, some of which are unavoidable. D'Orazio says that preeminent among these are competition from neighboring RPI and SUNY at Albany (both schools have enormous budgets and large on-campus facilities to hold the concerts), and the simple fact that few bands are touring in the fall. Of course, conditions are further ham- pered by Union's late start, which gives 'other schools the chance to book acts before Union is back in session. But probably the biggest hurdle the committee faces is the formidable task of drum- ming up student support. Though, as mentioned, the committee is budgeted to operate at a financial loss, last year's turnouts were major disappointments. The season's biggest draw-The Thompson Twins-only filled Proctors to 70 percent of its capacity. Probable reasons for this are that though both of the two biggest acts booked last year- Billy Idol and The Thompson Twins-had banner years in 1984 (each scored platinum albums), they were only moderately known at the time they played here. Union has somewhat of a history for booking acts right before they break big on the national scene-Billy Joel in 1976, the Go-Gos in 1980, etc. So students need to be more open-minded about seeing concerts by lesser- known groups. . Of course, artistically last year was a big success, covering musical styles ranging from solid back-beat rock (The band, Eddie Money) to reggae (Eddy Grant) to synth-pop (The Thompson Twins) to new-wave punk(Billy Idol). D'Oraziosays that although the Concert Committee is concerned basically with keeping a rock 'n' roll heart, it has always been willing to experiment with progressive and- new-wave rock. That is a trend he expects will continue in the future. As for the upcoming season, D'Orazio says it is much too early to quote names. Everything depends on who is available and when. But he is hoping to book someone for Homecoming, and then four College students are reminded to take ad- vantage of Proctor's \Student Rush\ ticket policy. Valid identification entitles each student to purchase tickets for Proctor's performances at half price one hour before curtain time. Offer is limited to two admissions per I.D. Card and is contingent upon availability. October's offerings include Gabe Kaplan in- Groucho, Judy Collins in concert, the Pilobolus Dance Company, Duke Ellington's Sophisticated Ladies with Freda Payne and Romeo and Juliet. For a complete I isting of Proctor's presentations write Proctor's Theatre, Box 279, Schenectady, N.Y. 12301. For information by phone call (518) 382-1083 during regular business hours. major concerts in the winter and spring terms, plus Camp Union. All of which means th&t students can expect another year of quality music and hot new groups. To the student of voice Miss Price is the quintessential Photos Shown By LAUREN SANDERS Staff , Next year the New York State Forest Preserve, in Adirondack Park, will celebrate its lOoth birthday. The Wild Wings Foundation, .in order to begin this birthday celebration, has organized a traveling photo exhibit called, \The Adiron- dacks: A Wilderness Preser- ved.\ The exhibition offers a complete view of the beauty, spirit, and tranquility of the Adirondack region. \Vibrant Sepia Prints\ The exhibit contains thirty- five sepia and color prints. Seneca Ray Stoddard, foremost n i n e t e e n t h · c e n t u ry photographer of the Adirondack region, was responsible for the vibrant sepia prints. The other prints were done in color by Harold Davis, a contemporary wilderness photographer. The . work of both photographers shows some of the twenty-eight hundred lakes and ponds, as . well as thirty thousand miles of rivers and streams. Also pic- tured are many of the forests, valleys, and villages in the Adirondacks. Some of the sepia prints also portray actual scenes from nineteenth century life in the Adirondacks. These prints help capture the history fir addition tb the be·auty of the Adirondacks. Union's Adirondack Research Center, located on the fourth floor of the Schaffer Library, has brought this exhibit to the College. The exhibit itself is located in the Music Room of the Schaffer Library and will be there through October 19th. There will also be a reception for the exhibit on Friday, October 5th ( 4:30 to 6:00 p.m.) in the Music Room. Photographer Harold Davis will be there to discuss his work. Comdeian-Writer-Producer·Director David Brenner will be appearing at the Latham Coliseum Theatre on October 13, at a p.m. Tickets are still available .through Ticketron and the Coliseum Box Office. Join the versatile Brenner for an entertaining evening of fun and laughter. - ill c .I B A entt of u cha see is Soc erg: sue: and enj< Der opp Col] live diff, hav will spe1 Tl cia~ and onf mr< is t for 1 plat sits cha: neet mai visa orr floo pre- Eve mrn beir. aud witt are cont aud kee1 clar the PJ Art~ thes has rea~ 10, spor Mw:

Page 12 CONCORIJIENSI.S: Thunday, October .J, !9lJ.I THE ARTS Renowned Opera Soprano Leontyne Price performed at Proctor's Theatre last Saturday, Sept. 29 at 8 p.m. Music in the air e •• l. Price Plays Proctor's: The Price is Still Right By JENNIFER B. P ASTON Staff Metropofitan Opera soprano Leontyne Price, universally regarded as one of the greatest artists of our time, enchanted an audience of opera buffs and laymen alike on Saturday night at Proctor's Theater. The Mississippi born Jutliard graduate does not believe that there should be limits on what classically trained vocalists can do; she certainly proved this in her recital. The program began with a selection of Mozart pieces, followed with songs by Strauss. She continued to thrill the already spellbound aHdience with a rendition of \Un bel di\ from Puccini's Madame Butterfly. Versatility Demonstrated model. Each phrase is delivered with expression. Every note is perfectly placed and on pitch. Committee Gets Underway Miss Price demonstrated the full extent of her versatility in the second half of the program with her performance .of Liszt's French art songs, songs from a variety of American composers and Negro spirituals. It never seemed to matter if she sang in Italian, French, German or English; the message was always the same. From her first glorious note until the last resonant tone of her third en- core, (\Summertime\ from Gershwin's Porgy and ·Bess) Leontyne Price astounded the audience with her rare and unique talent. One can never see her breathe, and, most importantly, she makes it all look easy. Leontyne Price, however, is more than a singer. Though she has received 17 Grammy awards, two Emmy's, the Presidential Medal of Freedom, and numerous internatioual a wards, she is also a great humanitarian. She sang at the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty signtng ceremony and at the welcome for Pope John Paul II. The lifetime member of the NAACP holds honorary degrees from Harvard, Yale. Dart- mouth, and Columbia. She has held benefit concerts to fund the Leontyne Price Library at Rust Coltlege in Mississippi. Miss Price has thrilled audiences from the Met to La Scala. It was wonderful that she decided to stop off in Schenectady. By MICKEY BRADLEY Staff With the 1984-85 academic year now well underway, all of Union's extracurricular clubs are back in swing, and the Concert Committee is no ex- ception. Co-chairman Ken D'Orazio (partner Pete Hut- chinson is spending this tetrn in London) and his committee are currently hard at work looking for bands for the upcoming year. The process of scheduling a concert is a constant barrage of back-and-forth between the committee and concert promoters. Since Union holds most of its major concerts at Proctor's Theater in Schenectady, a third entity becomes involved-and Proctor's has a heavy schedule of its own this year, leaving few dates open for the Concert Committee to work with. Therefore, anything is likely to happen when planning a concert to prevent it all from coming together. Thus, though D'Orazio admits that he is currently working on an act for Homecoming, he is quick to note that it is not too early for anything to happen. A concert like that would probably cost around five to six thousand dollars, but bigger- name acts can easily cost twice that. Funding, however, is not a major problem for the com- mittee. It is budgeted by Student Activities and is ex- pected to lose money on most of its events. But the Concert Committee has faced many problems in the past, some of which are unavoidable. D'Orazio says that preeminent among these are competition from neighboring RPI and SUNY at Albany (both schools have enormous budgets and large on-campus facilities to hold the concerts), and the simple fact that few bands are touring in the fall. Of course, conditions are further ham- pered by Union's late start, which gives other schools the chance to book acts before Union is back in session. But probably the biggest hurdle the committee faces is the formidable task of drum- ming up student support. Though, as mentioned, the committee is budgeted to operate at a financial loss, last year's turnouts were major disappointments. The season's biggest draw-The Thompson Twins-only filled Proctors to 70 percent of its capacity. Probable reasons for this are that though both of the two biggest acts booked last year- Billy Idol and The Thompson Twins-had banner years in 1984 (each scored platinum albums), they were only moderately known at the time they played here. Union has somewhat of a history for booking acts right before they break big on the national scene-Billy Joel in 1976, the Go-Gos in 1980, etc. So students need to be more open-minded about seeing concerts by lesser- known groups. Of course, artistically last year was a big success, covering musical styles ranging from solid back-beat rock (The band, Eddie Money) to reggae (Eddy Grant) to synth-pop (The Thompson Twins) to new-wave punk (Billy Idol). D'Orazio says that although the Concert Committee is concerned basically with keeping a rock 'n' roll heart, it has always been willing to experiment with progressive and new-wave rock. That is a trend he expects will continue in the future. As for the upcoming season, D'Orazio says it is much too early to quote names. Everything depends on who is available and when. But he is hoping to book someone for Homecoming, and then four College students are reminded to take ad- vantage of Proctor's \Student Rush\ ticket policy. Valid identification entitles each student to purchase tickets for Proctor's performances at half price one hour before curtain time. Offer is limited to two admissions per I. D. Card and is contingent upon availability. October's offerings include Gabe Kaplan in- Groucho, Judy Collins in concert, the Pilobolus Dance Company, Duke Ellington's Sophisticated Ladies with Freda Payne and Romeo and Juliet. For a complete listing of Proctor's presentations write Proctor's Theatre, Box 279, Schenectady, N.Y. 12301. For information by phone call (518) 382-1083 during regular business hours. major concerts in the winter and spring terms, plus Camp Union. All of which means that students can expect another year of quality music and hot new groups. To the student of voice Miss Price is the quintessential Photos Shown By LAUREN SANDERS Staff Next year the New York State Forest Preserve, in Adirondack Park, will celebrate its lOoth birthday. The Wild Wings Foundation, in order to begin this birthday celebration, has organized a traveling photo exhibit called, \The Adiron- dacks: A Wilderness Preser- ved.'' The exhibition offers a complete view of the beauty, spirit, and tranquility of the Adirondack region. ''Vibrant Sepia Prints\ The exhibit contains thirty- five sepia and color prints. Seneca Ray Stoddard, foremost nineteenth century photographer of the Adirondack region, was responsible for the vibrant sepia prints. The other prints were done in color by Harold Davis, a contemporary wilderness photographer. The work of both photographers shows some of the twenty-eight hundred lakes and ponds, as well as thirty thousand miles of rivers and streams. Also pic- tured are many of the forests, valleys, and villages in the Adirondacks. Some of the sepia prints also portray actual scenes from nineteenth century life in the Adirondacks. These prints help capture the history in addition to the beauty of the Adirondacks. Union's Adirondack Research Center, located on the fourth floor of the Schaffer Library, has brought this exhibit to the College. The exhibit itself is located in the Music Room of the Schaffer Library and will be there through October 19th. There will also be a reception for the exhibit on Friday, October 5th ( 4:30 to 6:00 p.m. ) in the Music Room. Photographer Harold Davis will be there to discuss his work. Comdeian·Writer·Producer·Director David Brenner will be appearing at the Latham Coliseum Theatre on October 13, at 8 p.m. Tickets are still available through Ticketron and the Coliseum Box Office. Join the versatile Brenner for an entertaining evening of fun and laughter. I i I I I I / i• ' I; I ; I i I . I !i' I . j· I I f . I . I ' I . i' ~ ' i ~ I l J l l l '/ ! ' ' '1 I . I ! I ' - ~ I E A ent of 1 cha see is Soc org sue anc enj Dei OPJ Col liw diff hm will spe T cla: and on I mrt is I for pla1 sits cha nee rna vis1 or I floo pre EvE mu: beii aud witl are con aud kee cla1 the p Art: the! has rea: 10, spo1 Mm

ered is she a ived two and nal reat the the II. the art- has at La she in the is of be 9th. :-.::---~ CONCORD/ENS/!,~ Thur.\'day, lktoher 4, 1984 Concerts Planned By JANICE C. THOMPSON Staff Khan, and the student .response to ~h!s concert was extremely positive. Prof. Tann would like to get Union students involved in classical music concerts. ~any student~ would probably hsten to thts type of im- provisation, than to Mozart or Beethoven. Prof. Tann also believes that it is very im- portant for Union to develop a core of people who are in- terested in music and the arts in general. T. Ranganathan and T. Page 13 THE ARTS Attending ·conce.rts is an entertaining pastime for most of us, and we try to take every chance that Union gives us to see different bands perform. It is common practice for the Social Committee and other organizations to sponsor bands such as The Thompson Twins and Billy Idol for student to enjoy. In like manner, the Arts Department is offering another opportunity for the Union College community to listen to live music. It will probably be different from a!lything you have evet heard hefore, and it will definitely be a good way to spend an evening. Viswanathan are brothers and come from a very well-known family of musicians and dan- cers in Madras, India. T. Rang ana than has toured in both India and the United States. He has - taught at California Institute of the Arts, U.C.L.A., the American Society for Eastern Arts Summer Program and is now teaching at Wesleyan University. He appears on several recordings in this country with Ramnad Krishnan, Nageswara Pao, and his brother. T. Viswanathan has taught in the same places as T. Ranganathan and is also . currently at Wesleyan. He was chosen the Musician (Instrumental) of the Year in 1978 by the government of Madras, and awarded the American Institute of Indian Studies Senior Research Fellowship in 1982. Actors Tom Hewitt and Louis Jourdan performed in \Gigi\ at Proctor's Sept. 18. 23. A Touch of Fra.nce . . . The concert will consist of classical mu~ic of South India, and will feature T. Viswanathan on flute and T. Ranganathan on mrdangam (a type of drum). It is traditional in Indian music for the musicians to be on a low platform, while the audience sits on the floor. There will be chairs available for those who need them, but in order to maintain· tradition, it is ad- visable to bring along a cushion or mat with which to sit on the floor. There is no printed or pre-rehearsed music involved. Everything is improvised, the music is being created as it is being played. Musicians and audience alike are involved with the creation process; all are intent on listening and concentrating on the music. The audience often shows this by keeping the beat, or \tala by clapping their hands or tapping the flow. \Gigi'' Opens Season Professor Hilary. Tann of the Arts Department has ·invited these musicians to Union and has done so for a variety of reasons. Last spring, on April 10, the Arts -Department sponsored a North Indian Sarod Music concert, by Amjad Ali The South mdian concert will be held in the Old Chapel at 7:: 30 p.m. on Friday, October 5. Admission is free. This concert is the first in a series of concerts called \Traditions of Improvisation.'' More concerts, including the Quadrangle Jazz Ensemble, and An Introduction to the Music of West Africa with Master Drummer Abraham Kobina Adzinyah, will be held at various dates this school year. For more information, call the Arts Department at 370-6201. By GAYLE ROSENFELD Editor~ in-Chief \Gigi!\ The very name conjurs up thoughts of French champagne, wine and song. Already 26 years have passed since Alan Jay· Lerner's lyrics and Fritz Loew's music swept the Academy Awards ceremony. Now, their musical has made a triumphant return to the stage on a tour that in- cluded Proctor's from Sept. 18 to Sept. 23. This eight per- formance run opened the 1984-85 Proctor's season with a bang, \Sharp and Flawless\ The dialogue was sharp and flawless .. Cast members moved from scene to scene with grace and ease. Lowe's upbeat score further facilitated this pace. Dean Brown's 1890's period costumes gave an added flavor to the French atmosphere as well.' For the occasion, Proctor's was looking its very best. Its Navy OtriCer From College Scholarship To Med School Scholarship From Busin~ss Man~gement To Nuclear Engineering CAREERS AVAilABLE IN Personnel Management Accounting Petroleum Management Aviation Ocean Engineering System Engineering Logistics Management Systems Analysis Financial Management Medicine Law Nursing Communications Operations Research Distribution Management Subsistence Technology Computer Systems Contract Management TRAVEL RESPONSIBILITY RAPID PROMOTION Navy Officer Programs Leo W. O'Brien Federal Building Albany, NY 12207 Call collect Mon-Thur, 7:30-1:00 (S 18) 462-6119 NAVY. IT'S NOT JUST A JOB, IT'S AN ADVENTURE. marble columns stretching upward in splendor added elegance to the whole production. The richness of the crimson satin stage curtains blended spectacularly with the theatre's gilded balconies and crystal chandeliers. The entire audience complemented this scene with a crisp eagerness and wonder on their faces; everyone anticipated a first glimpse of the .show's star, Louis Jourdan. In the original Vincent Minnelli film version of \Gigi\, Jourdan played the young playboy Gaston, but now he fits more comfortably in the role of Gastop's lovable uncle, Honore (played in the film by Maurice Chevalier). Newcomers Tom Hewitt and Lisa Howard shined as Gaston and Gigi, respec- tively. - \Gigi\ is an anecdote about a young French girl who is groomed by her grandmother and aunt to be a Parisian courtesan. Betsy Palmer, a veteran of \The Golden Age of Television\ played Gigi's ec- centric Aunt Alicia while for- mer ballerina Taina Elg sparkled as Gigi's grandmother and Honore's former love, Mamita. \Stole the Show\ Each actor played his or her role to perfection, but Jourdan stole the show. His entrances were greeted with applause by the audience and he kept everyone on the edge ofhis seat. With a gleem in his eye and a smile on his face, Jourdan spoke every line and sang every tune with that charming voice that has made him a star. From \Thank Heaven for Little Girls\ to \I Remember it Well,\ Jourdan lifted \Gigi\ with his debonair flair. If \Gigi\ is any indication of what Proctor's has in store for its audience this season, then Schenectady is in for a rare treat. New G.Recon1mended

te is she a ~ived two and the II. the rees has y at La in the the f is of be om. will k. i I i ' ( l ' ' ' ' ' ' ! : I: I . ' I I I I; I ' I :· I : I I r , '; \ I I j I t I I • I . I ' I ' I . I I . I ' ) CONCONDIEN.\'/S, Thursdar. October .J, 198.J THE ARTS we !TW?' .. , g;g :;:34 t 4AAPM¥ !! 4 =m::wt:;& es: : :; g Concerts Planned By JANICE C. THOMPSON Staff Khan,. and the student response to ~h.ts concert was extremely postttve. Prof. Tann wouid like to get Union students involved in classical music concerts. 11:'1any students would probably listen to this type of im- provisation, than tu Mozart or Beethoven. Prof. Tann also believes that it is very im- portant for Union to develop a core of people who are in- terested in music and the arts in general. T. Ranganathan and T. Attending concerts is an entertaining pastime for most of us, and we try to take every chance that Union gives us to see different band-, perform. It is common practice for the Social Committee and other organizations to sponsor bands such as The Thompson Twins and Billy Idol for student to enjoy. In like manner, the Arts Department is offering another opportunity for the Union College community to listen to live music. It will probably be different from anything you have ever heard before, and it wtH definitely be a good way to spend an evening. Viswanathan are brothers and come from a very well-known family of musicians and dan- cers in Madras, India. T. Ranganathan has toured in both India and the United States. He has taught at California Institute of the Arts, U.C.L.A., the American Society for Eastern Arts Summer Program and is now teaching at Wesleyan University. He appears on several recordings in this country with Ramnad Krishnan, Nageswara Pao, and his brother. T. Viswanathan has taught in the same places as T. Ranganathan and is also currently at Wesleyan. He was chosen the Musician (Instrumental) of the Year in 1978 by the government of Madras, and awarded the American Institute of Indian Studies Senior Research Fellowship in 1982. Actors Tom Hewitt and Louis Jourdan performed in \Gigi\ at Proctor's Sept 18 23 A Touch of France ... The concert will consist of classical music of South India, and will feature T. Viswanathan on flute and T. Ranganathan on mrdangam (a type of drum). It is traditional in Indian music for the musicians to be on a low platform, while the audience sits on the floor. There will be chairs available for those who need them, but in order to maintain tradition, it is ad- visable to bring along a cushion or mat with which to sit on the floor. There is no printed or pre-rehearsed music involved. Everything is improvised, the music is being created as it is being played. Musicians and audience alike are involved with the creation process; all are intent on listening and concentrating on the music. The audience often shows this by keeping the beat, or \tala by clapping their hands or tapping the flow. \Gigi II Opens Season Professor Hilary Tann of the Arts Department has invited these musicians to Union and has done so for a variety of reasons. Last spring, on April 10, the Arts Department sponsored a North Indian Sarod Music concert, by Amjad Ali The South Indian concert will be held in the Old Chapel at 7:30 p.m. on Friday, October 5. Admission is free. This concert is the first in a series of concerts called \Traditions of Improvisation.\ More concerts, including the Quadrangle Jazz Ensemble, and An Introduction to the Music of West Africa with Master Drummer Abraham Kobina Adzinyah, will be held at various dates this school year. For more information, call the Arts Department at 370..Q201. By GAYLE ROSENFELD Editor-in-Chief \Gigi!\ The very name conjurs up thoughts of French champagne, wine and song. Already 26 years have passed since Alan Jay Lerner's lyrics and Fritz Loew's music swept the Academy Awards ceremony. Now, their musical has made a triumphant return to the stage on a tour that in- cluded Proctor's from Sept. 18 to Sept. 23. This eight per- formance run opened the 1984-85 Proctor's season with a bang. \Sharp and Flawless\ The dialogue was sharp and flawless. Cast members moved from scene to scene with grace and ease. Lowe's upbeat score further facilitated this pace. Dean Brown's 1890's period costumes gave an added flavor to the French atmosphere as well., For the occasion, Proctor's was looking its very best. Its Navy OtriCer From College Scholarship To Med School Scholarship From Business Management To Nuclear Engineering CAREERS AVAILABLE IN Personnel Management Accounting Petroleum Management Aviation Ocean Engineering System Engineering Logistics Management Systems Analysis Financial Management Medicine Law Nursing Communications Operations Research Distribution Management Subsistence Technology Computer Systems Contract Management TRAVEL RESPONSIBILITY RAPID PROMOTION Navy Officer Programs Leo W. O'Brien Federal Building Albany, NY 12207 Call collect Mon- Thur, 7:30-1 :00 (518) 462-6119 NAVY. IT'S NOT JUST A JOB, IT'S AN ADVENTURE. marble columns stretching upward in splendor added elegance to the whole production. The richness of the crimson satin stage curtains blended spectacularly with the theatre's gilded balconies and crystal chandeliers. The entire audience complemented this scene with a crisp eagerness and wonder on their faces; everyone anticipated a first glimpse of the show's star, Louis Jourdan. In the original Vincent Minnelli film version of \Gigi\, Jourdan played the young playboy Gaston, but now he fits more comfortably in the role of Gasto.n's lovable uncle, Honore (played in the film by Maurice Chevalier). Newcomers Tom Hewitt and Lisa Howard shined as Gaston and Gigi, respec- tively. \Gigi\ is an anecdote about a young French girl who is groomed by her grandmother and aunt to be a Parisian courtesan. Betsy Palmer, a veteran of \The Golden Age of Television\ played Gigi's ec- e:entric Aunt Alicia while for- mer ballerina Taina Elg sparkled as Gigi's grandmother and Honore's former love, Mamita. \Stole the Show\ Each actor played his or her role to perfection, but Jourdan stole the show. His entrances were greeted with applause by the audience and he kept everyone on the edge of his seat. With a gleem in his eye and a smile on his face, Jour dan spoke every line and sang every tune with that charming voice that has made him a star. From \Thank Heaven for Little Girls\ to \I Remember it Well,\ Jourdan lifted \Gigi\ with his debonair flair. If \Gigi\ is any indication of what Proctor's has in store for its audience this season, then Schenectady is in for a rare treat. . Campus Paperback Bestseners 1. inSearcboiExcetlet1<:o, byT. J. Peb;!rs&.R.H. WatermariJr. {Warner, $.8..95.} A look at !lie secrets of successful business. 2. The Name o1 the Flose, by Umberto Eco. (Warner, $<t95.} Murder in an Italian mona$tety. _ 3. A-ug\Jlll, by Judl1h RQssner. (Warner, $4.&0.) Five ~ars if'l the lives of two women, 4. The One Mlnut&.M~ager, by K Blanchard & S. Johnson. {Berkley. $6.95.) How to increase your productivity. s. Hotlywood Wives, by Jackie Collins. (Pocket, $3.95.} . . . Glamourous liw*;,cf thewomenoohirn:Hhe men in Tinsaltown. 6. Bl~ Highway-. by William Least Heat Moon. . {Fawcett. $S.95.} A look at life at the back roads of Ameri-Ca. 7. Megatrends, by John Nai:sbilt. (Warner, $3.95.) Forec;asting AmeriC!l's future. &. Wlnter't Tale: b;Mark Helpr~n. -{Pocket:-s4:so.) -. ------ .Mythic~! taleabou~Manhattan's past an~_f_tJI~r~.:._ __ _ 9. The Color Purple, by Alice Walker. {Washmgton Square Press, $5.$5.) Winner of the 1983 American Book Award. -----·-----·------· --· ----~ --- 10. Thurston House, by Daniella Steel. (Dell, $3.95.) San Francisco _F.al_l1!1_Y _saga. While Rugan Slept, by Art Buchwald. (Fawcett, $3.95 } A hard~hitting look at our fortieth presioont by one of tooay·s master satirists. \\ __ .............. ___ . --------- .. -· ----· ~ ~-. - ~-- The NeverendlnQ SIO!f• by Michael Ende (Pengum,. $6.95) I akes the reader on an ench.anted voyage to a mag1ca1 kin~?o~, Fa~~~.a.: _ _ ·- __ tJnion StrMt. by Pat Barlw. (Snllantme, $3 50) A novel about h&artbreal<.and unemployment and the temolewounds of . famn~ ~~£_n the P?~~----- ·-·-- .... --·-· ___ . --·

Page 14 CONCORDIENS/S, Thursd(ly, October4, 1984 TH.E ARTS ''Flick'' Reviewed \\ By GAYLE ROSENFELD Editor-in-Chief Shelley Long, Ryan O'Neal an'd Drew Barrymore· star· in\ I rreconci I able Differences,\ a Warner \I don't want to turn into these people\ is a prophetic lirie uttered by Shelley Long as she catches her first glimpse of the Hollywood jet set in this fall's Warner Brother~ release \Irreconcilable Differences.'' Opening last Friday, Sept. 28, this film boasts such stars as LoQg, Ryan O'Neal and child star Drew Barrymore (fresh from Stephen King's latest horror film entry, \Firestar- ter\). Nancy Meyers and Charles Shyer wrote this pic- ture along with an earlier cont.emporar.y comedy, \Private Benjamin.\ Shyer directed \Irreconcilable Dif- ferences\ while Meyers served as executive producer. Arlene Sellers and Alex Winitsky produced the film. Brothers release. Bowie's Back- ' 11 Serious Moonlight\ Tour By STEVE PIRAINO Staff Recently, marmnoth rock and roll tours have become quite common. The Jacksons, Bruce Springsteen, The Police, The Who and the Rolling Stones have all hit the road in the last few years. Granted, all of these performers put on spectacular shows, but none of these tours can compare with David Bowie's 1983 Serious Moonlight Tour. This unique tour, lasting seven months, covering four million miles over four con- tinents, and playing before two and one half million people, might have been the best rock tour of all time. The electricity of the tour has now been documented by writer Chet Flippo and photographer Denis O'Regan in David Bowie's Serious Moonlight. It is the story of Bowie's triumphant tour from beginning to end, from the first show in Belgium to the last in 'Tokyo. prime concern was to present myself as just a performer this time around. And to take away some of the confusion about my identity: What I do, where I come from. And just leave all the (past) . characters out and Duke, a charismatic cabaret singer, or any of his other bizarre characters, Bowie put on a mask and acted his way through the show. His music was a reflection of his character, often moody and the sound came out wth a new tone of optimism. According to Bowie;-\1 really made a bjg effort to kind of come down to earth, so to speak, for this tour. It's-! mean, I am a good actor. And the charac- ters I've presented in the past onstage,. they worked. They worked a bit too bloody well. I was getting angry (about) being regarded as just a freak. (Now) you won't see Mr. Iceman Cometh or weird Ziggy or whatever. And it's working. It's giving people who, before would have said, oh, he's that red- haired faggot, you know, we > don't want that, we can't see that creep. Now it's changing. Now, they like it. That was my premise for this tour: To re- - represent myself.\ Bowie took a great risk by doing a world tour. He had not toured in five years (which is an eon for a rock and roll star). His album, \Let's Dance,\ had just been released, and he was fioping for its success. But as the tour progressed, the sellout shows kept getting rave reviews, and the album sales went up. Bowie overcame the stigma which had been attached to him. At the climax of the tour, Bowie was at the top. The outstanding feature of the book has to be the many stun- ning full color photographs. In these pictures, O'Regan did a superb job of capturing Bowie onstage rocking in his flashy, designed costumes, as well as catching him candidly when not perfonning. Bowie's show was choreographed and light syn~ chronized which led to many exciting shots. David Bowie during his 1983 Serious Moonlightworld tour. Serious Moonlight is a great representation of Bowie's tour. It's a nice piece of history for those who missed the tour, (yours truly opted to see The Police instead of Bowie) or only got to see his Serious Moonlight special on HBO. For those who were lucky enough to see Bowie, 'I'm sure the book would bring back fond memories. I highly recommend it to rock and roll fans. It's worth a long look. Based upon a diary kept by Bowie and notes by Flippo, Serious Moonlight is a day by day factual account of the tour. Also included is some dialoge between the two. When asked, why a Serious Moonlight Tour, Bowie replied, ''I think my just put on a damn good show that had a nice feeling to it. A happy show.\ This was a drastic change for Bowie as an artist. In the past as Ziggy Stardust, a space age rock clone, or The Thin White depressing. On past tours, he included up to three syn- thesizers in his band. But with The Serious Moonlight Tour, Bowie opted for a more upoeat horn secton. He was performing much of the same material, but Union College Film CommiHee FALL SCHEDULE 9/19--The Muppet Movie (7, 9, 11) 9/21-9/23--Footloose (7,9, 11) 9/26--AII That Jazz (7 :30 & 10) 9/28-9/30--Greystoke (7: 30 & 10) 10/3--Casino Royale (7,9, 11) 10/5-10/7--Splash (7,9,11) 10/10--Grateful Dead {7:30 & 10) l0/12-10/14 Moscow on the Hudson (7, 9, 11) 10/17--Return of the Pink Panther (7:30 & 10) 10/19-10/21--Spinal Tap (7,9, 11) 10/24--King of Hearts (7, 9, 11) 10/26-10/28 Romancing the Stone (7, 9, ll) 10/31--The Shining (7: 30 & 10) 11/2-ll/4--Broadway Danny Rose (7,9, 11) 11/7-- The Candidate (7, 9, 1-1) 11/9-11/11--S.Ukwood (7:30& 10) 11/14--Notorious (7, 9, 11) 11/16-ll/18--Stripes (7, 9, ll). This pict11re deals with a so- called Emancipation of Minors 1\.ct in California. Under this law, explains a reporter in the film, a child may divorce himself, or herself in Barrymore's case, from his parents if it is in his best in- terest.- Barrymore decides to use this case to her own benefit. She brings both her parents to court. tn the trial of Brodsky vs. Brodsky and Brodsky, Casey Brodsky (Barrymore) proclaims, ''If I'm not going te be totally nuts when I grow up, I'd better get out of this family while I stm have a chance.\ ''IrreconcHable Differences\ occurs in ·the present (the courtroom) and the past. As O'Neal, Long and Barrymore give their testimonies in court, the story of O'Neal and Long's courtship, marriage and divorce is recalled. The audience is introduced to a scatterbrained Lucy Van Patten (Long) who is driving from her home town in Pitt- sburgh, PA. to California in order to marry her fiance, a 240 poW1d navy man. Along the way, she· meets up with Albert Brodsky (O'Neal), a motion picture professor with a new job offer a:t .. UCLA. Brodsky had thought that hitchhiking across the country might be a romantic way of biding time before his job was to begin; ·he is soon disillusioned. He convinces a reluctant Long to give him a lift; four days later they are married. Their short courtship includes such background music as Nat King Cole's \I Wi13h You Love\ • and James Taylor's \You've Got a Friend.\ Richard Cladyerman's piano solos and Frank Sinatra singing ''You and Me, We Wanted It All\ add to the music: A year after their marriage, they find themselves with Barrymore. O'Neal is later offered, and then accepts, a job by fihn producer David Kessler, · played by veteran actor Sam Wanamaker. However, O'Neal finds that he cannot write a ~creenplay without his wife's help. They crank out a very successful film together, but only O'Neal receives notoriety for it. As O'Neal gets caught up in his own fame 1 not to mention with another beautiful woman; Long is left behind with Casey. As both B:rodskys experience the ups and downs of the Hollywood film industry treadmill, Barrymore is caught in a tug~of-war between both parents. The result is Brodsky vs. Brodsky and Brodsky .. The film has its comic ~p.oments (mostly involving Long) and poignant ones (mostly involving Barrymore) as well. Although the story is uneven at times, the per- formances of its stars make the picture enjoyable. Of aaded note is that O'Neal throws in lots of old film references. At one point he tells Long, \I see in you exactly what Jimmy Stewart saw in Jean Arthur in 'Mr. Smith Goes to Washington'.\ \Irreconcilable Differences\ is now playing at Crossgates Mall Cinema 10, Clifton Country Mall Cinema 1-6, UA Center 1 and 2 and Cinema National Mohawk Mall. - CONCORDIENSIS is seeking any creative writing material or photographs to publish each week. Please bring your work to our office, 4th .floor, Carnegie, by 4 p.m. each Tuesday. ~ u T c 11

in to to ~y ) p, ~e 's a n ~ n b d c CONCORDIENS/S, Thursday, Ocwher 4, 1984 Page 15 We're proud. to have been serving . Union since 1912aHhe.cornerof State St. and Erie Blvd. In the \Old\ State Arcade- 377-1515 ,4 Barber /Stylis.ts High in .qua.lity, low in price (Same as last yur) We appreciate your business /\ Alcohol Is Out! 0 L_4~ Non-Alcoholic Night ·~ Tuesday, October 9, 1984 ~~ Come and see what th'er PUB cou'ld c.._~ offer without alcohol, such as · Alcohol-less Champagne, Frozen Fresh Fruit Drinks, Alcohol-Free· Beer. Plus . . . mouthwatering mun-' chies: Potato Skins, Mozzarella. Sticks, Nachos, etc, All This And Free Hors D'Oeuvres UNION COLLEGE Office of Computer Servic,es is pleased to announce on-campus support -for the DEC Rainbow 100 Microcomputer. Rainbow 100B System LA50 Personal Printer 10M 8 Hard Otsk . $1995. 396. 1554. AddtiiOnal costs incll!lde 6.5% sales tax. a $95 annual If you are interested in .purchasing a Rainbow 100 you should act matntenance fee, and the cost of whatever spec 1 al soon, since special prices are in effect for limited quantities software you choos-e to purchase. while supplies las.t. Further information is available in the Rainbow Guide which may be obtained from the Computer Services 'Consulting Office 1n Steinmetz Hall. MfiNHf\ fiN - iE~~IH4f.._.i;.~ ·605 Union Street 11 The Most Exciting 'New Bar in Downtown Schenecdady\ OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK LUNCH-DINNER-FINGER FOODS Serving 11:30 am-1 :00 am Join Us For Sunday Brunch 11:00 am-3 pm Longest Walking-On-Hands In 190Q Johann Hurlinger of Austria walked on his hands from Vienna to Paris in 55 daily · 10-hour stints. covering a distance of 871 miles. AT&T long distance wins hands down when it comes to immediate credit for incomplete calls and wrong numbers. Seniors Don't forget to_: TAKE YOUR SENIOR PORTRAIT Oct. 8-17 Sign up in Student Activities Office Longest Bicycle Race The longest one-day \massed start\ race is the 551-620 km (342-385 miles) Bordeaux-Paris event In 1981. Herman van Springe/ averaged 47.186 kmlhr (29.32 mph) covering 584.5 km (362.4 miles) in 13 hr. 35 min 18 sec. • AT&T long distance lets the good times roll for you, too -. with discounts of up to 60% every day. Nobody can match AT&T for savings and service: • 40% discounts evenings, 60% discounts nights and weekends. • Immediate credit for incomplete calls and wrong numbers. • Calls from anywhere to anywhere, anytime. • 24-hour operator assistance. • Quality that sounds as close as next door. It's a winning combination. Why seHie for less? Visit the display in the Campus Store. The more you hear the better we sound . .., A TaT __ L __ Zip woolloned TRENCH COATS Cotton/Polyester, water repellent for year around weather portec· tion. Belted waist and sleeves. Regulars, shorts and longs. regular price 165. Sale $1 29 90 includes alterations rJ(QUI'l(E;Jflf9J' (.~-)I. ,\'I.Ql I' IR./' .. ,.\till/- \1- 01· I I 1 } ]11!1 0'Jotl.~lt'l1 ,.~//Itt /Q.IQ ~~­ c;:-: 420 State Street • Schenectady Free Parking on Broadway Adioining Our Rear Entrance Mastercard • Visa • Am. Express Squire Shop Charge Open doily til 9 • Saturday til 5

Page 16 SCHOLARSHIPS High School and College students who have not received the necessary state or federal funds for continued education are urged to apply to The Scholarship Bank for private educational fooding. The Scholarship Bank has approximately 25,000 sources of private financial aid and will send students a list of 20 to 50 names and addresses upon receipt from the student of a questionnaire. The question- naire can be ordered from The Scholarship Bank in Los Angeles by sending a stamped, self-addressed envelope to 10100 Santa Monica Boulevard, No. 2600, Los Angeles, CA 90067. Application forms are now on campus for swruner research in the humanities. The program will award up to 100 grants nationally to students Wlder 21 years of age to conduct their own research and writing projects in such fields as history, philosophy, and the study of literature. The ap- plication deadline is October 15, 1984. If guidlines are not available at the Placement Office, please write for Guidelines to: Younger Scholars Guidelines, Division of General Programs, Room 420, National Endowment for the Humanities, 1100 Penn- sylvania Avenue, Washington, D.C. 20506. The CIC Minorities Fellowships Program will award about 50 fellowships to me01bers of underrepresented minority groups seeking Ph.D. degrees in a wide variety of fields. Each CIC Minorities Fellowship is for four years. For 1985-1986, each award will pay full tuition plus a stipend of at least $6,000. Fellowships can be used at any CIC university. Application deadline is January 18, 1985. Apply as early as possible. For complete information about who may apply, exactly what disciplines are covered, and how to apply, call toll free at 800-457-4420. In Indiana, call 812-335.0822. Or write to: CIC ( Wacky, Witty Wonderful Rubber Stamps The Open Door 128 Jay Street .• ~ Downtown Schenecta..w; ·-. ··-.../~) ' . .. . ' A_·?'~ ,. .• Hale House Will Be Open On Weekends Brunch 11:30-1:30 Dinner 5:00-6:30 (With the exception of brunch Saturday, October 6th due to a catering function. Sorry.) CONCORDIENSJS, ThursdaJ', October 4, 1984 Minorities Fellowships Program, Kirkwood Hall 111, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN 47405. The Scholarship Research Institute of Washington, D.C., an organization specializing in aiding students and their parents in their efforts to locate funds for college, is itself of- fering three (3) $1,000 scholarships. This represents their second annual offering and applicants must meet the criteria outlines below: +undergraduate + full-time student + G.P.A. of 2.0 or above For application and in- formation, students should write to: Scholarship Research Institute, P. 0. Box 50157, Washington, D.C. 20004. The dealine for applications is December 10, 1984. Awardees will be notified by January 15, 1985. Recipients will be selected based upon their academic performance, leadership abilities, college and com- munity activities. These awards are for the Spring semester of the 1984-85 school year and may be used for any expenses related directly or indirectly to the pursuance of any academic major at the undergraduate level. The National Wildlife Federation is now accepting applications for the Environ- mental Conservation Fellowship and Publication Award programs, 1985-86 academic year. Grants are for up to $4,000 for the Conservation Fellowships and cash awards are for up to $2,500 for the Publication Awards. Applications are available by writing: Executive Vice President, Conservation FellowshitrPublication Award programs, National Wildlife Federation, 1412 16th St., N.W., Washington, DC 20036. National Science Fooodation graduate fellowship stipend has been raised to $11,100 for 1985- 1986. NSF Graduate Fellowships are intended for students at or near the begin- ning of their graduate study, and will be awarded for study or work leading to master's or doctoral degrees in the rna the mat ical, physical, biological, engineering, and social sciences, and in the history and philosophy of science. The deadline date for the submission of applications for NSF Graduate Fellowships will be November 21, 1984. Further information and ap- plication materials may be obtained from the Fellowship Office, National Research Council, 2101 Constitution Avenue, Washington, D.C. 20418. Deadline: January 15, 1985 The Saul Horowitz, Jr. Memorial Graduate Award is offered to Civil engineering majors pursuing a Master's in construction or civil engineering. The Associated General Contractors of America offers these $5,000 renewable awards. Applications and information are available in the Financial Aid Office. Deadline: ACROSS 33 Things to be 3 Leave out 29 Golf mound 4 Improve 30 Organ of 5 Welcomes hearing 6 Swiss river 34 Wanted 7 Marine: colloq. 35 Noise 8 Irritates by healing 8 Swimming 36 .Painter scolding 41 High card 9 Landed 37 Frustrated 12 Citrus fruit 42 Lately created 10 Blood 38 Frozen water done 1 Untidy person 37 Harsh to taste 5 Choke 40 Goddess of 13 Beam 45 Smaller 11 Prophet 39 Tried 14 Century plant 49 Enthusiastic 19 Unit of Latvian 42 Rodents 15 Send forth 50 Kind currency 43 Cry of 16 Sin 52 Ripped 21 Spanish plural BaccHanals 17 Weary 53 Carry article 44 Quote 18 Flexible rod 54 Bishopric 24 Health resort 46 Painful 20 Click beetle 55 Emerald isle 25 Ugly, old 47 Great Lake 22 Dine 56 sow woman 48 Tear 23 Negative prefix 57 Youngster 26 Anger 51 Meadow 24 Blouses 5 a Act 28 Suitable A I 27 Landed nSWtrS n property oowN Next WeekJs 31 Equality 1 Killed I 32 Edible seed 2 Kind of bean . SSUe November 15, 1984. Empire State Mathematics and Science Teacher ' Fellowships will be offered to 400 New York State graduate students studying to teach math or science. Mote information can be obtained at the Financial Aid Office. Deadline: March 1, 1985. UNDERGRADUATE OPPORTUNM'IES The Ward A. and Janice R. Bohner Scholarship Fund offers up to $1;000 per student for individuals pursuing a degree in fire science or a related field. Inquire to The New York State Association of Fire Chiefs, P.O. Box 445, Kinderhook, NY 12106. Deadline: May 1, 1985. The Associated General Contractors of America's Education and Research Foundation. offers renewable $1,500 grants to students in.Civil Engineering. Selection is based on academic performance, extracurricular activities, employment experience, financial need, and a demon- strated interest in a con- struction industry career. More information and applications are available in the Financial Aid Office. Deadline: November 15. International Computer Programs, Inc. offers a $5,000 scholarship to a third- or fourth- year Computer Science student. A 3.0 GPA and some financial need must be proven. More information and applications · are available in the Financial Aid Office. Deadline: November 15. The Empire Stat\e Mathematics and Science Teacher Scholarship and Fellowship Program offers 312 undergraduate awards to students .preparing to teach mathematics or science in a New York State school. Awards of up to $3;000 per year will be given in exchange for an agreement to teach for one academic year per two years of awards .received. Phone 474- 6394 for an application. Deadline for 1984-85: October 31, 1984. Deadline for 1985-86: March 1, 1985. GRADUATE OPPORTUNI• TIES ZONT A Amelia Earhart Fellowship Awards: Thirty-two women will win $6,000 grants for graduate study in aerospace- related science or engineering. Applications, which must be filed by January 1, 1985, can be obtained by writing ZONTA International, 35 East Wacker Dr., Chicago, lll. 60601. Garden State Graduate Fellowships are $6,000 renewable awards for New Jersey residents attending New Jersey graduate schools in non- professional degree programs. Applications are available in the Financial Aid Office. Deadline: March 1, 1985. The McKnight Black Doctoral Fellowship Program in the Arts and Sciences, Mathematics and Engineering is self-explanatory in its eligibility requirements. Recipients must attend any one of eleven Florida Universities, and are awarded full tuition plus a $10,000 stipend annually. More information is available at the Financi;:~l Aid Office. Deadline: Janua~y 15, 1985. Applications are being sought for senior and postdoctoral research associateships. The programs provide Ph.D. scientists and engineers of unusual promise and ability · Join Us For A·n Alcohol-Free Alterna1ive Style Chicken 'Wings, Apple Cider and Fried' Cakes. We will also offer our regular menu of shakes, burgers, fries and sandwiches. ~\ ·~tf.t; ('.O.~ of. ~t \'f.\~ 0 ~ ·~ 1 Dread nought the question, 'o\ '\ ~te\ ~ '\'tt\)t' q\&. \what to do,\ stop in tl-'\. t'f.•' \,\ for exhilaration · q 0 ~ 0 'oet \ without stupefaction ANTED: PART-TIME position available for college ..-•stuld1'!111t to represent travel company on campus. Earn -commission, free travel and work experience. Contact: Beachcomber Tours, .Inc., 1325 Millersport Hgwy., Williamsville, N.Y. 14221 (716) 632-3723. w rE th p~ te la pl In re fe ar ot Pt an 60 Cc A~ D. ' Ch Co Fe thE pe Fe r pr, nir pr1 m< fir: pr< ant vol the ) ditl obt Cm Fel N., (20 mu tha - c N Sun met

a be an ~of ber for ce- be be :~:er ~te ew ew in ble ~ht D. of CONCORDIENSIS. Thursdar. October 4. /984 SCHOLARSHIPS with opportunities to perform research on problems largely of their own choosing yet com- patible with the research in- terests of the supporUng laboratory. Deadline for ap- plications is January 15, 1985. Information on specific research opportunities. and federal laboratories; as well as application matetiais, may be obtained from Associate Programs, Office of Scientific and Engineering Personnel, JH 608-D3, National Research Council, 2101 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20418, (202) 334-2760. Admiral James B. Stockdale, Chairman of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships today announced the opening of the application period for the 1985-86 Fellowship year. The White House Fellowship program, beginning its nineteenth year, is designed to provide gifted and highly motivated Americans with firsthand experience in the process of governing the Nation and a sense of personal in- volvement in the leadership of the society. Application forms ·and ad- ditional information can be obtained from the President's Commission on White House Fellowships, 712 Jackson Place, N.W., Washington D.C. 20505; (202) 395-4522. Applications must be postmarked no later than December 1, 1984. CLUB NEWS Newman Folk Group-- Sunday, October 7, 6 : 30 p;m. meets with Friar Paul in St. ~ John's Church to prepare for 7:30 Mass. All welcome to join Newman Club Meeting & Social-Monday, October 8, 8 p.m., 4th floor Lounge, Car~ negie. NewmanSocial & Ziti Dinner- Sundt~y, October 14 for all Catholic faculty, staff, their families and Union students. Admission free. Please call the Religious Programs ')ffice 370-6087 if yo11 can come. Social at 3 p.m. and dinner at 4 p.m. at St. John the Evangelist School. HUNGER CONCERNS-All those interested in planning the 11th Annual Fast for a World Harvest that will take place on November 15 please meet in 4th Floor Lounge, Carnegie, Tuesday, October 2, at 4: 30 p.m. \The college division of The National Unity Party, chaired by the Honorable John B. Anderson, is seeking students interested in establishing chapters of Students for National Unity . on campuses throughout the United States. For details, please write: NU Party, SNU, 2433 18th Street, NW, Washington, DC 20009.\ INTERNSHIPS The Empire State Institute for the Performing Arts at the Egg in Albany is now accepting applications for internships for the spring semester, January to May, 1985. Applications and further information may be obtained by calling 474-1199 or by writing to Intern Program Administrator Empire State Institute for th~ Performing Arts, Empire State Plaza, Albany, New York 12223. Applications for the spring semester will be accepted no later than November 9, 1984. HAIR DESIGN Located on Corner of Broadway & Harnilt.on St. 382-7956 • Student Discounts Graduating college seniors, new graduates, and graduate students are invited to apply for the \live-in\ Preprofessional Resident Advisor Counselor Traineeships offered at The Devereux Foundation in · suburban Philadelphia, a group of multidisciplinary residential and day care treatment and rehabilitation centers. The· Devereux PA Branch is ap- prov,ed by the American Psychological Association for Predoctoral Internships in Clinical and Counseling Psychology. The E. L. French Vocational Rehabilitation Center is approved by the Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities. For information and applications write: Dr. Henry Platt, Director, Institute of Clinical ;Training and Research, 19 S. Waterloo Road, Box 400, Devon, PA 19333. Tel: ( 21'5) 296-6906. HELP WANTED The Cerebral Palsy Center for the Disabled is in need of volunteers for its Feeding Program to assist school age and adult clients during lun- chtime, from 11:30-1:30 Monday . tbrougA. . Friday. Contact the Center at 489-8336, extension 533 for information. Electronic Sales- Part-time position selling audio, video and car stereo at discount prices. Over 50 name brands with full warranty and service facilities. Contact: Mr. Philips Hi-Fi Sales Col, 1001 Sussex Blvd., Broomall, PA 19008. 215-544- 1465. travel a must. Excellent business-marketing majors. Call Bruce at 1-800-431-3124 or 1- 914-434-6000 (N.Y. State only). CLASSIFJEDS The MEM Company has announced the national campus search for a man to represent its English Leather Musk men's toiletries in 1985. The lucky winners get cash and prizes. To enter send one photograph (black and white or color) to Concordiensis, Box 2577. The photos must have been taken within the last six months and must be no larger than 8\ x 10\ and no smaller than 3\ x 5\. Deadline is Oct. 22. FOUND: 2 pairs of pants outside by the WRUC table during the day of the all-campus picnic. Contact Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office if they are yours. Typing: term papers, theses, etc. done by executive secretary. $1 per page. Call Judy at 399-3383. Expert typing, $1 per page. Call Marge at 377-8345. Help Wanted: Furniture store needs strong help to do work pertaining to furniture store delivery, window hanging, moving, and so forth. Also need someone who can drive van. Call 374-7785. FOR SALE: Men's 10 speed Schwinn Continental Bicycle, 27\ with light. Excellent cond'n. Asking $85. Call Sue, tele. 6293 until 5 p.m. Mon.-Fri. or 374- 8605 any evening. Meeting for waiters- waitresses interested in Loolting to earn extra cash this semester? Become the Pines Hotel college travel representative. Enthusiasm to working at Dutchrnans: Mon., Visit the Internationally Acclaimed Alternate Dining Experience on Campus THE AMAZING (the stupendous) ROCK-N-ROLL PIZZA PUB Featuring: damn awesome pizza scrumptious subs famous cookies popcorn etc .... This Week's Special 2 FREE MEDIUM SODAS W/ANY PIZZA Hours: 1:30-11:30 everyday! Free Delivery 370-6060 WRUC 89.7 FM NCAA Football 1 p.m. Union vs. W.P.I. Catch all the excitement as the nation's number 2 ranked Dutchmen battle the number 13 ranked WPI Engineers. Coverage begins at 1 p.m. Page 17 Oct. 8 -at 5:00 in Pub. If you cannot attend please contact Betsy at 377-1045, Suzanne at 6517 or Dave at the pub. JVC 1984 video competition for video professionals as well as those aspiring to careers in television who want an op- portunity for national recognition. Competition features four categories-- Communications, Training, Promotion-Merchandising and Local Cable Production; requires no entry fee. The competition closes November 30, 1984 and winners will be announced in March 1985. Official rules and entry forms are available by writing: 1984 Professional Video Com- petition, c-o Shaw & Todd, Inc., 6101 Empire State Building, New York, NY 10118. Or call the Professional Video Competition hotline (212) 244-5225. Attention: Incarcerated college student looking for people to correspong with. Majoring in business. W-M, 27, 5' 10\ 185lbs., solid, brown eyes and hair. I consider myself intelligent, strong, sensitive and caring, not bad looking. I am into bodybuilding, martial arts, yoga, skiing, poetry, the sun and good times with good people, love music. So if you can find the time drop this guy a line. You will not he sorry. Write to Larry Kapp, 77-b-602, Box 149, Attica, NY, 14011. $15,000 to be granted.to young composers as 1984-85 BMI Awards to student composers competition opens. Official rules and entry blanks for the 1984-85 competition are available from James G. Roy Jr., Director, BMI Awards to Student Composers, 320 West 57th St., New York, NY 10019. If you write science fiction stories and can do one in less than 7,500 words, send it to: NESF A Story Contest, Box G, MIT Branch Post Office, Cambridge, MA 02139 by November 1, 1984. Need a typist? Contact Kathy Shecky, 399-4656 in the late afternoon. The Film Committee Presents: Oct. 5-0ct. 7-\Splash\ at 7, 9, 11 p.m. in SS 016. Oct. 10-\The Grateful Dead: Live at Radio City Music Hall\ at 7:30, 10 p.m. in SS 016. Tickets are $1 at Student Box Office. Worldwide Communion Servic._e ,• Sunday, October 7 7:30p.m. Hale House Lower Lounge

Page 18 ORT ByPAULKURKER Sports Staff Congratulations to senior tailback John Johnson for capturing Athlete of the Week honors for his outstanding ef- forts in the Dutchmen's first' three games of the 1984 season. The 5'8\-182. pound Johnson rambled for over 100 yards in each of Union's first three games, the first time in his career that he has ac- complished this feat. So far this season, John has picked up 344 yards on 61 carries (5.6 per carry) with four touchdowns and a 114.7 yards per .game average. For his four year career, Johnson has dashed for 1 ,929 yards with 20 rushing touchdowns. He is aiming to become only the fourth running X-Men ••• Continued ·from page 20 sophomore Neil Ricks in sixth. Tenth and twelfth finishes by Pat DiCerbo and Mike Reed respectively proved that the Dutchmen will have the depth to compete with tougher squads as the season progresses. With a 1-o record, Union travels to LeMoyne on Saturday fm· the LeMoyne Invitational. Their next home meet is a tri- meet against RPI and Colgate on October 13. 1984 Women's Varsity Soccer Roster Jill August *Rebecca Clemente Colleen Dundon Lisa Foley Caroline Gegan Jean Hailer Debbie Hodin Celie Mann Clarissa McFarlan Astrid Morsch Peggy Petro Lisa Rathbun Patty Richards Patty Roach Lynn Sakata Sarah Shaw Mary Soley Carol Urfer Leona Wetherell Beth Wright *indicates Captain CABARET WANTS YOU! '88 '86 '86 '86 '88 '87 '88 '88 '88 '86 '85 '86 '86 '88 '86 '88 '86 '87 '88 '88 Q: What's an exciting way to start off your Thursday night? A: Cabaret! We're recruiting new talent to perform, new MC's and new waiters and waitresses! Working tor Cabaret is really a blast--lots of beer & wine aside from great student entertainment. If you're interested in becoming a part of the fun come to our: Organizational Meeting Monday, October 8 7:00p.m. Cabaret Room Carnegie Hall If interested but unable to attend meeting, contact Debbie or Diane 6475. Athlete of the Week back in Union history to gain over 2000 career yards. The Baltimore native has started in the backfield since his arrival at Union and led the team in rushing in his freshman and sophomore years. John is a Managerial Economics major and a brother of the Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity. Volleyball • • • Continueil from page 20 Vassar College. (note; in a tri- match, winner is best 2 of 3 games, in .a single m~tch ~es~ 3 of 5}. Sage was the f1rst vtctun and Union beat them in two games 15-1, 15-10. New Paltz was next and proved to be the most exciting and nerv·e- racking match of the young season. New Paltz took the first t game 13-15, and the Union -& squad was far from stunning. In o the second gme, the Out- Vi chwomen got their rhythmback and defeated the seemingly over-confident New Paltz team 15-5. The third game, and:by far the most exciting of the evening, was plagued with problems. Officials miscaUed, boun~ary interpretation problems and a lot .of missed serves on both sides, along with exceptional defensive and offensive play biY both teams made the intensity level near the end of the game almost unbearable. Finally, Union came out on top 16-14 at. the price of a few more grey hairs on Coach Lynne Barta's head. Vassar then fell to Union 15-11, 15-IO, giving the Women a record of 5-0 for the season which is a vast improvement over last season in which the team failed to reach the 5 mark in the win column all season. The team's outlook for the rest of the season is optimistic, they are a well rounded club with a lot .of potential. The team has been helped by freshmen, Sue-ann Piekarski and Shelley Paino who are among the starting six. Senior Cheri-Ann Wong is setting and provides the experience the Dutchwomen need. Junior Kim Magino is new to the team and is also a setter. Three talented setters are an asset in which Union is not used to and it makes .for a more · versatile offensive game. .. ·-······ ~~ .. -.- .. .:::;-;;., -~:-··· Suezette Collier (Jr.), Mary Forbes (Jr.), Louisa Rooney (Sr.), and Cathi Riley (Fr.) all give the team versatility, height and power in the Middle Hitters position which is le~ by Collier's complete domination of above the net play. Newcomer Judy Price, and returning players Barbara Brady (So.), Sarah Levin (Jr.) and lefty Janet Keyes are strong and depen- dable outside hitters, aad the whole team has been con- centrating and working hard on their defensive play. Tbe potential is there this year for a full and exciting season and Coach Barta has arranged a challenging schedule for the team which will continue on Thursday October 4, at Williams College. The next home match for the team is on Tuesday against LeMoyne, at 6:00 p.m. in the field house. Please come and support the - team and learn more about bne of the mo.st exciting Varsity sports played at Union. . .;>.:(.<··· ;-:--~- .. ~ -:·:: .... ~ .-; ~:::.·:-l=:-:-:. - -- - B TI firS1 Rug peti: Ups leag The Eas of I Wee Stat the awa atS· of ti w fron Unic seaf divi1 Dou: capt way theil Harr thre1 late toth Scru ball the f fora O.A putti the~ The beca man

all ight ters the ~on­ has ext on at the bne .... Ill a. >- .0 0 .... 0 .t: a. ('(JNCORDIENSI.~: Thursday, Octoher4, 1984 Page 19 SPORTS ScottWykoH Ruggers In ypstate Rugby Union On Sports ·. By ROB SHARP Sports Staff The 1984 fall season marks the first time that the Un.ion College Rugby Football Club is com- peting in an official league, the Upstate Rugby Union. The new league is split into two divisions. The Union ruggers are in the Eastern New York Conference of Division II. With a win on Wednesday against Albany State, Union will be 3-0, leaving the team only two victories away from a past season berth at Syracuse against the winners of the Western Division. With eight starters returning from last spring's 9-4 team, Union was picked as the pre- season favorite to win its division. With serum captain Doug Baumgarten and line captain Scott Collins leading the way, 'the Union Ruggers played their first game against a tough Hamilton . team. Having only three days of practice due to the late start of school, Union rose to the challenge by scoring first. Serum half Jeff Wilson took the ball weak side out of a ruck at the five meter line and ran it in for a try, putting Union ahead 4- 0. A Hamilton kick made it 4-3, putting the pressure on Union in the second half. Andy Klwnph, the savior for Union throughout the game, grubbed the ball at . ~he ten meter line and sprinted m for the try. A two point conversion by Matt Chambers made the score 10-3. Hamilton managed a try to make the score 10-7, butthat'sas close as they came, with Union dominating the rest of the game. The B-side lost a· tough opening game by a score of 9-0. The team was relatively inexperienced due to a lack of practice, but they still managed to hold an edge in time of possession al'l game. Unfor- tunately, Hamilton's kicker eonverted three penalty kicks that were beyond the 40 meter line. Despite dominating bet- ween the lines, the B's were brought down by the kicker's precision,· Following a hard week of practice, last Saturday's game against St. Lawrence was a different story. The Union A side, playing as if possessed, crunched the Larries from start to finish. St. Lawrence con- verted an early penalty kick for a 3-0 lead, but that was all they managed. Chambers converted a penalty kick into three points and the Ruggers were on their way. Rob 'Israel broke through three Hamilton tackles to bang through for a try. Chambers again convertedthe kick for a 9- 3 Union lead .. Then Doug Baumgarten took a pass from Klumph and rambled through for another Union try. Cham- bers converted the ~!>Oint after for a t5-3 Union lead. Union carried on the massacre .following half time. A£ter a slow start, Un.ion pushed a five yard serum three yards, and eighth man Baumgarten took the ball in for his second try of the game for a 19-3 lead. With five minutes remaining, Seott Collins took an inside pass from Kl urn ph into the try zone for a 25-3 final. The Killer B 's carried on the tradition with a 6-0 victory. Standing out was Steve Konlian who scored the winning try Unfortunately, he missed on two other golden opportunities. The B's totally outplayed the St. Lawrence opponents and are looking to improve their 1-1 record. The A and B sides face crosstown rivals RPI this Sunday on Library Field. Come out and support the Ruggers in their quest for the cham- pionship. If college football schedules were made in heaven, Union College and WP'l would be lined up to play one another this coming Saturday afternoon. But we all know that schedules are set many years in advance, but wouldn't it seem that the scenario for this weekend's contest was a result of some sort of divine intervention. The script just looks too good to be true. The week's game is the fourth of the season for both the Dutch- men and the Engineers but the evolution of the rivalry goes back to last season, a year in which Union and WP'l never met on the gridiron. Way back in November of '83, the NCAA Playoff Selection Committee sat down to decide what teams would get the nod for post season play. When the powers made their decision public, two schools only two and a half hours apart on the Thruway sat on two opposite emotional poles. Simply, the once-beaten school from Schenectady got a bid while the undefeated institution in Worcester had to put football on ice for another year. Cre~ Wins Go~rnet By ALEX GARDNER Sports Staff In 1877 Union crew competed in the famous \race for the Garnet\ against Harvard. Union, emerging victorious won the right to wear the Garnet. But after this memorable race, competitive rowing at Union was dropped. Until last year, both men's and women's crew after a 100 year dormancy was rejuvinated by sophomore John Crovacca. \I guess I asked too many questions and before I knew it I had 70 people telling me they wer~ interested.\ The Men's Varsity Soccer team has compir\ed a 3-0·l record partly because of their aggressive style as displayed here by Dan Brot· man. ifhe Bqoters battle the Alumni on Saturday. The program last year took off fast and achieved great success not only in par- ticipation, but, also in actual TENNIS -HEAD- -Prince- -Rossignol~ 1!2-price stringing with racket purchase We want to be your ski shop. ~- FOOTWARE -A VIA-Puma- -New Balance-Reebok- -Adidas-Converse- -Etonic- Special Av.ia Aerobic-Shoes Reg. 42.95 NOW 34.50 A via Leather Hi Tops reg. 69.95 NOW 49.95 Ski Tune-up Special *Patch Work *Edge Sharpening *Flat File *Hot wax * Release Check *B-inding Lube All For $9.99 with this ad OliN \SKIS :»~­ .. ,: ~JfoRDJCA ®oldstock's Sporting Goods 121 North Broadway, Schenectady Mon. thru Fri. till 9 p.m. competition. Despite limited funding and -inferior equipment, the team reached the semi- finals in their final race at the Dad Vail in Philadelphia. This year the . program has started just as fast, with 80 students, half of them fresh- men, looking to contribute. When asked what attributes to the unusual popularity, Crovacco replied, \It's an unusual sport that people have heard a lot about. I guess they are just generally curious and want to see what it is like.'' Well, everyone has their reasons, but Crovacco and the rest of the rowers are working out hard in preparation for their first meet at Mohawk Lake, Oct. 13, Homecoming Weekend. The following Student Forum Committees have vacancies: • Research & Grant Sub· Council (1) • Athletic Liaison ~1) • Traffi.c and Pet (1 Cha·ir, 1 Regular) • Social Committee (6) Applications for these positions will be available starting Thursday, October 4th and will be due on Friday, October 20th by 4:30p.m. For more information: please contact Mrs. Marra at Student Ac- tivities Office. All parties agree that last November is in the past, but believe me, a squad of Engineers to our east have not been quick to forget. Though last year's decision will not be affected by the outcome of this game, WPI looks to this week as a chance to cash in on a good bit of that commodity known in the sport's world as sweet revenge. Worcester Poly comes into the game an the crest of a twelve game winning streak. By the way,they were among only two unbeaten teams in the country last year, the other being that little school from Illinois called Augustana. But to continue on with the present, WPI is currently 3-0 for '84 and ranked as New England's top team by the New England Football Newsletter. The similarities between the Dutchmen and the Engineers are almost uncanny. On offense, Union is averaging 369.7 yards per game compared to WPI who average 378.7 yards of offense a contest. The Dutchmen offense is directed by senior signal caller Dan Stewart. With . Stewart taking the snaps over the past four years Union has won 25 games. For one not to know of Danny's quest to overtake Steve Young for consecutive games with a TD pass would be cause for ex- pulsion from school. WPI's senior quarterback John Scacciotti has had quite an impressive career of his own. Beside throwing the ball well, Scacciotti is the Engineers' second leading rusher. The Engineers have won 22 games over the past four years with Scacciotti running the offense. Both squads also boast talented running attacks led by seniors. Union's John Johnson has rushed for over 100 yards in each of the Dutchmen's games this year while WPI's veteran tailback Mike Carbone averages 4.6 yards a carry with 466 yards on the ground through three games. On the other side of the pigskin both schools have run up some good numbers against opposing offenses. The Dut- chmen defense has allowed 217.7 yards per game while shutting out two of their three opponents. The Engineers have been just as stingy on the D having given up only 229.3 yards an afternoon. The WPI defense has also forced 11 turnovers on the year. Hobart Head Coach Jack Daniels put it best when he was in town two weeks ago as he commented that most everybody realized' Union was picked over WPI because of its weak schedule. WPI went un- defeated playing not one team that ended last year with even a .500 record. The combined record of Union's first three opponents is 3·5 while the combined record of WPI's first three challengers in 1984 is 1-8 . We all know that next week's World Series has been termed the fall classic but it might just have a tough time living up to that billing when the crowd (predictions say 8,000) walks out through the turnstiles and tell their respective friends about what they saw when Union and WPI got a chance to meet head to head and finally settled the speculation that's been hanging around since that November Sunday afternoon.

+- Ill a. >- .0 -2 0 .c: a. Page20 CONCORDIENSIS, Thursdar. October 4, 1984 SPORTS . . . Stewart ties record Gridders By TED CANNON Sports Staff The Union College Dutchmen got the season started on the right note with a resounding 31-o clubbing of Rochester at Rochester. The defending Div. III Eastern Ch.ampions, behind a solid defensive performance, simply shutdown a potent Rochester attack. On the day, the defense was anchored by senior Bill Nowak, junior Marty Glaze, and sophomore. Dale Bajcer. Nowak intercepted a pass on his oWn 48, and raced 52 yards for a score. Bajcer took two passes away from the op- position, and Glaze played well enough in all phases of the game to earn \Defensive Player of the Week\ honors. Offensively, senior quar- terback, Dan Stewart kept his string of 20 consecutive games with a touchdown pass intact by throwing a 12 yard touchdown pass to sophomore tailback Todd Walker. Senior tailback John Johnson had a fine game moving the ball on the ground for the Dutchmen, while it was senior tightend Frank Kraft who earned \Offensive Player of the Week\ honors for Union. If}) Dutchmen crush Hobart In their second game, and first test of the season, Union passed with flying colors, as they dumped a highly touted Hobart team 24-0. Doinina te ·Foes Quarterback Dan Stewart waisted no time in getting Union on the hoard, and in increasing his consecutive games with a T.D. pass, by hitting senior fullback Steve Olsen with a nifty seven yard scoring pass, Stewart's 21 consecutive game with a scoring pass. Olsen was the answer again in the first quarter, when he hulled in from the one. Junior placekicker Greg Sticker'S second of three P.A.T.'s on the day made the score 14-0. The touchdown was set up by two outstanding plays. Senior safety Lenny Butner made a fine interception at midfield. Then on Union's first play of the series, Stewart found speedster Winston Britton along the left sideline, which gave Union the ball first and goal inside the Hobart ten. Junior distance placekicker, Pete Cohan finished Union's first half scoring with a booming 45 yard fieldgoal. In the second half, -the Union defense completely disarmed the Hobart attack. The defensive charge was led by senior defensive ends Mark Tavitian and Brian Cox. Cox gave the crowd the shudders with a bone-crushing sack that forced a third quarter fwnble. Tavitian made the surprise play of the game, by dropping into pass coverage from a flex position and taking a pass away from a Hobart receiver. Tavitian was awarded \Defensive Player of the Game'' for his performance. Although most of the second half highlights belonged to the defense, tailback Todd Walker electrified the crowd in the foUrth quarter with a brilliant 71 yard dash for Union's final score. Stewart ties pass mark Senior quarterback Dan Stewart tied the NCAA's all- time, all-division record for consecutive games with a touchdown pass when he con- nected with senior split end Winston Britton for a 39 yard T.D. pass in the first quarter of last Saturdays 30-14 win over a stubborn Colby squad. Union did get out ..of the gate fast with 23 first quarter points, but slowed some in the second half as the reserve units saw much action. Tailback John Johnson had an outstanding day with 107 yards on 18 carries and three T.D. 's, one good for 43 yards. While one record was tied on Saturday, another one goes into the books. Union's defense, after week after week of not allowing a T.D. ·on the ground, and building a seemingly im- possible record, finally allowed a rushing score. Union's record goes into the books at 61 con- secutive quarters without allowing a T .D. on the ground. This coming Saturday the Dutchmen will square off in Worcester, MA against the WPI Engineers in the game of the year in Div. III college football. Both teams will be undefeated going into the game. WPI will be especially hungry, because Union was granted a bid to the NCAA playoffs last year over WIP, despite WPI's unbeaten season. A bus will be going to the game, you won't want to miss it! Dutchmen Sportsweek Oct. 4-10 Thursday 10/4 Women's Soccer at Hamilton J. V. Men's Soccer vs. Siena Volleyball atWilliamsvs. N. Adams Friday 10/5 J.V. Men's Soccer vs. HV CC Field Hockey vs. Skidmore A & B Women's Tennis vs. Skidmore Saturday 10/6 Football at WP I Men's Soccer vs. Alumni Women's & Men's X-Country at LeMoyne LeMoyne I nvy. Monday 1<0/8 JV Football vs. Hamilton Women's Soccer at Siena . Tuesday 10/9 JV Men's Soccer at RPI Field Hockey at Hartwick A & B Volleyball vs. LeMoyne Women's Tennis at Hartwick Wednesday H)/10 Men's Soccer at Brandeis Women's Soccer vs. Vassar 3:3!Jp.m. 3:30p.m. ?p.m. 11 a.m. 6:30p.m. 3:30p.m. 1:30 p.m. 2p.m. 1p.m. 7:30p.m. 4:00p.m. 3:30p.m. 3:30p.m. 6p.m. 3:30p.m. 3p.m. 3.:30p.m. GI;\RNETSCOREBOARD 9/15- 9/30 FOOTBALL (3·.0) Union 31 Rocliesfer 0 Union 24 Hobart 0 Union 30 Co~by 14 J.V. FOOTBALL (1-0) Union 13 Albany St. 0 MEN'S SOCCER (3-0-1) Union 2 Cortland 1 Union 3 Kings Point 2 Union 5 Hamilton 0 Union 0 Binghamton 0 WOMEN'S SOCCER (H-1) Union 1 RPl 1 Union 3 Siena 0 Plattsburgh' 6 ·Union 0 VO)-LEYBALL (5-0J Union3 Russell Sage 2 Union 3 St. Rose 1 Union 2 Russell Sage 0 Union New Paltz 1 Union Vassar 0 WOMEN'S TENNIS (2-2) Union 7 Russell Sage 2 Union 4 Colgate3 Hamilton 6 Union 3 Vassar 7 Union 2 FIELD HOCKEY (2-3) Union 2 Russell Sage 1 Union 3 Vassar 2 Hamilton 4 Union 0 Rochester4 Union 1 William Smith 4 Union 0 MEN'S X-COUNTRY (1-0J Union 17 Middlebury 39 Women's Soccer l-l-1 Dutchmen defenders (! to r.) Pat Wright, Mark Tavitian, and Lenny Hutner converge on a Hobart runner. The Dutchmen travel to Worct:1ster, MA. this weekend to fa.ce the undefeated W.P.I. ~am. · Volleyball's Hot By KAREN ROTH Sports Staff victorious over the College of St. Rose, this time holding the match to four games. The scores were 15-1, 8-15, 15-11, 15- 1. September 26 the Dut- chwomen traveled to New Paltz to play in a tri-match which pitted them against Russell Sage, SUNY-New Paltz, and Continued on page 18 By FRITZ and GERHARD Sports staff The Women's Varsity Soccer Team, with already three games under their belt, find themselves with a 1-1-1 record. With ten solid freshmen rounding out the squad, the Dutchwomen have a positive outlook for the '84 season. After tying their home opener against RPI and handily defeating Siena, the Union squad did not fare as well against their highly skilled Plattsburgh opponents. The season began with the RPI match. Union dominated play throughout the game and outshot RPI 44 shots to their 6. Unfortunately, Union could not get on the scoreboard until nine minutes and 48 seconds into the second half when Mary Soley knocked in the only Union goal. She was assisted by Leona Wetherell. Despite overtime play, the dual ended in a 1-1 tie. What were you doing the week before classes began? If you played a fall sport at Union you would have been working out hard, and the Women's Varsity Volleyball team was no ex- ception. From September 10-18 the team ran double sessions every day and their pre-season efforts have really paid off as seen in the team's matches so far this season. X-Men Down Panthers On September 19, the team opened the 1984 season at home with a victory over Russell Sage. The Women took the first game of the match 15-8, but the second and third games were won by Sage with an extremely tough defense. Union carne back with determination and won the final two games 15-8, 15- 6. In their second outing. Two days later, the team was again By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff The Union men's cross country team started the 1984 season with a bang defeating Middlebury College 17 to 39 in their season opener at Central Park last Saturday morning. Paced by a strong 1-2 finishing time of 26:14 turned in by juniors Chris O'Donnell and Bill McRoberts, the Dutchmen were able to place five runners in the top six. Coached by Russ Ebbetts, Union took control very early in the race and dominated throughout, keeping a fine Middlebury squad off balance. Last fall in Vermont, Middlebury defeated the Dutch- men by a score of 15 to 49. Rounding out the scoring for Union was sophomore Bob Stenard with a close third, junior Tim Orcutt was fifth, and Continued on page 18 The individual play by Union was well executed but the team did not seerii' to have the necessary experience of playing as a unit to secure the win. In their 3-0 victory over visiting Siena, Union was able to put it together. The freshmen clearly showed their talent in this game as forward Wetherall booted in the first goal at 38:04, assisted by teammate Patty Roach. In second half action strong halfback Debbie Bodin scored Union's second goal. Wetherell combined her speed and finesse to maneuver around the Siena Defense and score the final goal for Union with 20 minutes and 23 seconds remaining in the game. Colleen Dundon had some fine defensive plays to compliment the strong fullback line led by junior Patty Richards. The tandem goalkeeping of Sarah Shaw and Jill August yielded the shutout. - The Dutchwomen fell ~-0 to Plattsburgh on the road last Saturday. Despite the score, an outstanding display of talent in the goal was shown by Sarah Shaw. The freshman netminder saved 90 percent of shots taken. The team will be away for their next two games and will face Vassar at home next Wednesday, October loth. -:-Benchtalk: Unfortunately just . minutes into the Siena game, key player Lisa Rathbun suffered a reinjury to her knee. Her expected return to play is unknown. The Women's Varsity Soccer team drives toward the Siena net en route to a 3-0 victory. The Dutcliwomen play at Hamilton today. - ·- - CXl - A Editm Oct. 8 had n matte greatt Cone By The IAAC two is to tht soluU ROTC curre recog taken The some ROTC taugt curre1 area cours stude1 also ROTC given The an iss IS a C( surro nedi anoth trans! recog1 the pa some bee au regulc are th RPI i much studer ROTC Bee Union its pc least , minor front 1 accep

14 .0 j. 1 0 2 1 0 1 0 2 3 3 2 1 2 0 1 tty to an in ~n. ~xt ~ly ~e. is CXlV, No.3 Dan Wojcik of the Saratoga Associates, campus planners and landscape architects, discusses new ideas for parking and traffic facilities at Union. Schenectady, New York OJI/ege Center • • . Bulk Rate U.S. Postage :faid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 October 11, 1984 Plans ·set • m Motion By DAVE MARIN Staff Last Wednesday, October 3, an open-campus meeting was held to discuss the plans for the new College <Center and the plans for related work (roads, parking lots, new machine shop).· Presenting the College Center plans to the ap- proxiiilately eighty students, faculty, and staff, was Jeff Freeman of the Boston firm Shepley-Bullfinch-Richardson and Abbot Architects (SBRA) and his colleague Paul Sun. Dan Wojcik of The Saratoga Associates described the related site-work to be done. The College Center plans presented at the meeting on Wednesday are not final and are subject to approval by the See map on p. 2 He pointed out early on that the building would extend through the parking lot behind Carnegie and only as far as halfway through the existing Mechanical lfl b machine shop. l A new building to house these functions is to be constructed across from Butterfield.) AAC Faces Dilemma Board of Trustees at . their meeting to be held tomorrow morning. Mr. Freeman's presentation centered on three basic con- cerns if the College Center is to be located at Carnegie. They are: efficient use of space, the relation of the new building to Jackson's Gardens, and focusing general activity around the central open area of the structure. The plans call for scaling the building down from the existing Carnegie to the level of Jackson's Gardens through a series of pavillions and a large central skylight roof that step down toward the north, even- tually to a terrace, about three feet above the Gardens. On each side of the existing Carnegie structure, a new tower will be erected with pavillion- shaped peaks to complement the present roof of Carnegie. One of these will include an elevator which will make the entire building accessible to the. handicapped. Editor's Note: As of Monday, Oct. 8, 1984 the following issues had not yet been resolved. The matter will be examined in greater detail in future issues of Concordiensis. By .WDIE STEINHARDT News Editor The Academic Affairs Council r AAC) is currently discussmg two issues of major importance to the College. The first is a solution to the conflict between ROTC and the the school's current policy of non- recognition of ROTC courses taken outside of Union. The school is currently under some sort of pressure from ROTC to accept ROTC courses taught at RPI. Union is currently the only college in the· area not accepting these courses for credit. Some :>tudents and faculty at Union also believe sttldents taking ROTC courses at RPI should be given credit of some sort .. The reason this has become an issue for ROTC is that there is a consortium of scheols in the surrounding area in which credit from one school to another is normally easily transferrable. Union has not recognized the ROTC courses in the past becaus.e of the nature of some of the cours.es, and because they are not part of the regular RPI curriculum, nor are they taught by RPI faculty. RPI itself, however, grants as much as 5 1 '2 course credits to its students participating in the ROTC program. Because of the pressures, pnion has considered changing Its policy and recognizing at least some of the courses in a minor capacity. The proposal in front of the AAC right now is to accept only the \academic courses\- that excludes drill, marching, · and leadership courses, and only those taken in the Junior and Senior years. The reason for this further stipulation is that the academic courses are only taken in the last two years of college. Exactly which courses would be considered \academic\ will be determined by the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies, William Daniels. Two facts must be carefully considered in evaluating this renewed policy. First, it is only a proposal. The AAC has not ,brought it to a vote yet and there is a large amount of ~ontroversy surrounding the issue. Second, it is highly probable that Union is simply going to agree to recognize the courses, but not accept them as credit toward graduation. This means the accepted courses will appear on the transcript irt some manner if the proposal is accepted. The second issue in front of the AAC right now is the proposed \gel plan\ a revamping of class schedules to utilize time better. Although there are several proposals, one is considered best by the Committee on the Union Education (CUE). The proposal is that classes will normally start at 9:00, but the classes that currently meet five days a week (Calculus for example) will start at 8:40. Classes meeting at 9:00 (or 8:40) on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, will end at 10:05. Those meeting on Tuesdays and Thursdays will end at 10:40 to make up for meeting one less day a week. Classes meeting Monday, Wednesday, and Friday willl meet as follows: 9:00 (8:40)- 10:40, 12:50-2:30, and 2:4().i4:20. No classes will be scheduled from 10:40-12:50 on Tuesdays and Thursdays to make more tiiile for meetings and lectures. Classes will be meeting either Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, or Tuesday and Thursday. The amount of tiiile spent in class is going to be the same as it is now-200 minutes per week, 250 for classes that currently meet five days a week. One advantage to this schedule is that classes will never meet on consecutive days, allowing time for in- formation to \gel\ or be ab- sorbed by the student. There will be no more break in the middle of the week-students will have classes every day. Continued on page 4 Alleviating fears for the Gardens at the meeting's start, Freeman discussed how the building would relate to the Gardens and the overall ap- pearance of the new structure. He explained that the original \program\ called for thirty-six thousand square feet of floor space. Through clever space allocation and maximizing usage of all parts of the Center, SBRA's plan has toned that down to thirty to thirty-two thousand square feet, in order to stay within the allocated budget. The design shows a large interior space in which one can get a sense of the entire College Center from the inside. One will be able to stand in the center of the ground floor and look up to each of the other levels and hear activity at different points within the building. The area will be showered with natural light from the glass roof, and considerable greenery, in- cluding a large live tree, will add to the comfortable at- mosphere. Continued on page 4 \' ro 0> .r= u (1,1 c: .s:: a. ltJ '·~ D Various student organizarions participated in the Student Expo on· Thursday,October 4. Homecoming See Insert Dutchmen Victory Page 16 >- ..0 0 0 .s:: a.

Page 2 OONOORDIENSIS, October 11, 1984 Ill IU -~ ..c: u Cl.l c: ..c: Q. ~ >- .0 0 ..... ·o -a Traffic Changes Planned Senior Trustee Shari Midoneck helped form the new Student Forum Commis-sion on .Energy Conservation. By DAVE MARIN Staff In the next few years, campus traffic and parking patterns will undergo considerable change to account for new demandS made by construction of the College Center and Alumni Gym ex- pansion and also to keep up with the ffort to make Union a walking campus. Dan Wojcik of The Saratoga Associates presented plans for the new roads and lots. The area of significant con- struction is that near the Physical Plant building. A new road is being constructed from COmmission Fights Waste By EILEEN O'CONNELL Staff A new Student Forum Commission on Energy Con- servation has been formed in order to save money. Senior trustee, Shari Midoneck, has taken up the challenge to decrease Union's energy costs and thereby enlarge the college's endowment fund. The Commission, a brainchild of Midoneck, is currently in the planning stages and will include student, faculty, and ad- ministration members. The Conservation Com- mission will explore energy use reduction plans and programs under the direction of Jack Hill, director of Campus Operations (maintenance). As A poll will soon be taken, asking the opinions of residents of South College on reducing hall lighting after 12:00 p.m. If favorable responses are received, lighting will decrease by two-thirds for a trial period. North, South, Richmond, Raymond, Potter and Edward Dormitories already have the requisite equipment to produce the \night light\ effect. Fox and Davidson, which are not so The mou~y saved through conservation is earmarked for addition into Union's endowment fund. equipped, may be if substantial economies are gained. The money saved through conservation is earmarked for addition into Union's en- dowment fund. The endowment is comparable to a capital in- vestment. In other words, the savings will generate more income for the college. Part of the income currently received Huma~ Rights in El Salvador .. . • from the endowment must go toward everyday operatiag expenses. Union has a relatively high tuition depen- dency. Approximately 70 percent of all expenses are met by tuition revenues. However, the other 30 percent are satisfied by diverting revenue from other sources ,of income, such as the endowment. Con- servation will thus make dollars for Union projects and services to the college community. Student attitude toward energy use has been poor in the past. Since the term's bill has already been paid, the student wastes all the energy he wants. Rooms are left unoccupied while lights, TV, and stereo all remain on, wasting energy unnecessarily. Conser:vation efforts may, in the long run, forestall increases in bills paid. Reduction of operating costs will release money for the endowment, slowing rises in tuition. Ramos Expresses Views By BEm LEVINE Staff On Tuesday, October 2, \Pedro\ Ramos spoke of the turmoil in El Salvador and his involvement in the non- government Human Rights Commission. Four founding members of the Human Rights Commission and three others were found murdered. After photographing the bodies, Ramos was next on the hit list, forcing him to seek refuge in the United States. The talk was sponsored by the Campus Ministry Office and Clergy . and Laity Concerned. Louis Diaz Perez, a senior, was the interpreter for twenty-nine year old Ramos. Ramos first outlined the history of El Salvador and the United States involvement. He described his participation and then an- swered questions. The following · discussion of the vents leading up to the present state of El Salvador is that of \Pedro\ Ramos. In 1976, El Salvador held democratic elections voting in a new military president. Con- cerned with the issues of the rich and interests of the United States' government, the new El Salvadorian rule made it easy for the invasion of transnational corp'Jrations. The corporations, especially Johnson & Johnson, Coca Cola and Kimberly Clark, among other companies, oppressed the people, reaping their cheap labor. Workers for the tran- snational company received $3 for eight hours of work, one dollar less than standard labor wages, but they did not receive benefits and were fired if sick or pregnant. Children of workers died of hunger. Because the military government was put in by the United States, the exploitation was tolerated. In order to· defend their rights, people organized themselves and turned to pacifist means, such as unions. The government responded with guns and assassins. The people asked the Catholic Church to intercede. Priests and nuns, including four North American nuns, were killed. 300,000 people brought their protests into the street, asking for food and better wages. The government sent soldiers. Photographs of the repressive situation un- dermined the credibility of the military government indicating to the United States a need for a change. In 1979, a coup de'etat brought in a new junta, which proclaimed democracy and ensured maximum rights of the people. The Salvadoran people belived in the propoganda and sent representatives. These leaders were either killed or exiled. The people, who tired of trying pacifist means to bring about change, were killed by armed soldiers. People were killed weekly. Photographs of soldiers killing civilians were shown inter~ationally, injuring the United States' image. In order to contain the movement of the people and save their image, the United States created the idea that they were helping the fight between the oligarchy and left wing. The United States helped the military government form death squads. These death · squads, equivalent to national guards, were dressed in civilian clothes, projecting the image that they were apart from· the government. The killing of innocent civilians continued under the pretense that the United States was helping El Salvador fight against organized death squads. In this way, the United States Continued on page 4 the corner of Nott and Van- vranken Streets to Carnegie (soon to be the College Center). In the short term it witl provide acess to the building con- struction site for the heavy machinery that will be used. Later it will serve as a service road for deliveries .(mail; food service, etc.) Since the Mechanical Engineering Lab-Machine Shop behind Carnegie is to be torn down for construction of the new College Center, a new building to house these operations will be constructed in the parking lot that exists between Achilles and the Physical Plant. The replacement for the parking will come from a new lot that will sweep in an arc from the location of the present lot to the new road. Along the eastern edge of :the lot, a road will bring cars to a turnaroudn near Butterfield to be established between that building and the new Machiae Shop. It has long been part of the campus plans to establish roads that will \penetrate into the perimeter\ and end in. tur• narounds of the type by the Skeller. The new road from VanVranken will end in a large turnaround by Carnegie and Social Sciences. This may require the removal of two large trees in that area, Students and faculty expressed concern over the matter at Wednesday's meeting. Vice President Hauser, while not able to say with confidence that this will not happen, has made it clear that everything possible is being done to avoid any such action. Two other turnarounds are also to be created, one near Alumni Gym and the other near North. The one by the gym will restrict traffic in front of Hale, South and on South Lane, and prevent traffic fram flowing between the gym. and the Butterfield areas. The tur- naround installed' by North will keep vehicles off the road that passes in front of Carnegie and the Arts BuHding. One student and one professor at Wednesday's meeting ex- pressed distress over lost parking spaces. Although the new lot will accommodate more cars than the old one, it does not account for the lost spaces behind Carnegie. They felt that ,~pace being used for foliage to shield the road from unsightly phisical plant buildings could be sued for additional parking since the -rol;ld was only a ser- vice road anyway. Dan Wojcik acknowledged the concern but said that it had been decided that for those who do come down that road (not always service vehicles) it would be appropriate to have a sightly appearance. He also noted that while not as con- venient, there are other parking areas on campus (such as the Nott-8eward lot). SENIORS: LI!IAARY Ffi:LD Have you taken your senior picture. yet?? There's still tiine. Sign up today in the Student Activities Office. ... .,:.• {{-\:\Fe \~.' ..... / Co The Centei transi1 term, depart Coordi Servic at Uni decide compl: out to resign' beg.an Acade Compt and lat positio The systen has d workin compu itself disci pi hlllillill notable foundi put e1 Curric1 \comp potenti Mr. greatl) day currict will be repres By FJ \I fe the SP states· basis, v the pia future Affair Me gar Forwn AffairE mid-wi other i the Oc Appr last we the firs some minute Steve results Deans and thE ways t relatioJ and fa( which. aftern(] Fa cult discuss someth defund Senio O'Brie1 develoi be held group ( being PresidE Dan St coache: Dutch l Will fol close \1 Nott :M Meml Bran( Laux Midot Georc Land~ O'Brl Phi IIi Berne Marir Siler Lipsk Moss Moun Mega Harrl Total

not ce that it is such are ~ near ~r near Hale, and the ~ tur- d that ie and fessor ex- lost h the ~more esnot that to be ser- had ~who (not s) it a also con- the OONOORDIJJJNSIS, October 11, 1tllt) Page 3 Computer Center ·Changes By ALESIA HENRY Staff The Union College Computer center will see a number of transitions take place this fall term, one of which will be the departure .of Mark Wysoski, Coordinator for Administrative Services. After a two year stay at Union College, Mr. Wysoski decided that he had ac- complished all that he had set out to do and handed in his , resignation in June, 1984. He began as Coordinator of Academic Services in the Computer Center in June,. 1982, and later changed to his present position. The advancing computer system that Union employes has drastically changed the workings of the school. \The computer has started to find itself in a lot of different disciplines, particularly in the humanities,\ he notes. The most notable change has been the founding of CHUC (Com- puterized- Humanities Curriculum). He believes that a \computer-based education has potential for great growth.\ Mr. Wysoski says that he is greatly looking forward to the day when the 'general curricular computer system' will be fully installed. It will represent a new computer system for academic use. The old Burroughs B6805 computer system should be completely phased out by November 19, 1984. On the academic side; the Vax computer will be used; in administration, the Hewlett\ Packard computer will be in service .. The administrative work will now be \on line\ instead Clf \batch.\ Simply stated, this means that the data control will lie in the offices instead of the Computer Center, as it has in the past. All of these renovations should be com- pleted before winter term, just in time for Mr. Wysoski's departure on December 31. He says that this will be the cuhnination of two years of hard work and will be his happiest day at Union College. As for the future, Mr. Wysoski has ''no definite plans but a number of opportunities.\ He would like to continue working in an academic environment as he has learned to appreciate the workings of both the ad- ministrative and academic sides of his job. Replacing Mark Wysoski will be Louis Tremante. Former coordinator for software development at Union College, Tremente attended New York University, Northeastern University as well as Union. .:. ' \ Director of Campus Operations, Jack Hili qnd Interfraternity Council President Roger Harris talk about the misunderstanding surrounding campus owned fraternities. Greek Confltct Arises . . College Funrishes Reason By DOUG LANDON Staff Several Greek organizations housed in college-owned buildings have expressed dissatisfaction and anger over the treatment their residences received from Union's main- tenance personnel during the summer. Furnishings belonging to the brothers and sisters of these organizations were removed from the houses and thrown out in the process of cleaning the rooms. Roger Harris, .president of both Delta Upsilon (DU) and the Interfrater!1ity Council (IFC}, reports that similar items were removed from his house, including a working refrigerator, a few couches, a working stereo and several rugs, \most of high quality and brand new last year.\ Forum Discusses Break In late May, the Office of Residence Life sent a notice to all residents of campus housing informing them that any per- sonal property left in rooms over the summer recess would be threwn away. Some Greek groups did not heed the war- ning, however, because, despite the fact that similar notices had been sent in past years, the furnishings had always been left intact. DU brothers did not follow the Residence Life not i ~e either, because past precedent in- dicated that their belongings would be left alone. \For years and years, fraternities have left their possessions in the houses,\ Harris says, noting the \definite differences between the College's treatment of residence halls and fraternity buildings.'' He says three- fourths of fraternity residents return the next year, and \it would be a hassle to carry everything back and forth.\ By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Staff \I feel that we should clarify the SAC's proposal so that it states this is only for a two year basis, with a decision to continue the plan to be determined in the future,\ stated Academic Affairs Representative tom Megarian at the last Student Forwn meeting. The Student Affairs Council proposal for a mid-winter \term vacation and other issues were discussed at the October 8 meeting. Approval of the minutes of last week's Forum meeting was the first order of business. After some miner changes, the minutes were approved. Steve Benson discussed the results of his meeting with the Deans of the College. Benson and the deans were working on ways to improve the working relationships between students and faculty. One such proposal which resulted was the idea of afternoon intellectual colloquia. Faculty members woUld discuss_ specific current issues; something similar to the now defunct Intellectual Cabaret. Pep Rally Senior Representative Lynn O'Brien reported the latest developments in the pep rally to be held during Homecoming. A group of speakers is presently being compiled, including President Morris, quarterback Dan Stewart, and the football coaches. Performances by the Dutch Pipers and cheerleaders will follow. The evening will close with the lighting of the Nott Memorial. The event is sche<;luled to begin at 10:30 p.m. the Friday of Homecoming. President Steve Benson added to O'Brien's report by telling of the status of the lighting of the Nott Memorial. A permanent electrical system is being installed by maintenance, with the project being financed jo~ntly by the Forum, President Morris, and Dean Mammola. Benson then suggested that the Forum should redirect any of these remaining funds into rental of a P.A. system for the evening. A motion was made and passed by the Forum on the aforementioned action. Student Trustee Shari Midoneck reported that the Forum's Public Relations Committee was scheduled to meet on Wednesday, October 17, at 1:00 p.m. in the Pub. Steve Benson announced the holding of a symposium on collegiate student governments to be held at Russell Sage College. At the conference, representatives of several college13 will come to discuss the arrangements-workings of their respective student govern- ments. Benson asked for in- terested volunteers who would be willing to attend the con- ference. Andrew George and Chris Siler both agreed to participate in the Nobember 17 symposium. Mary Phillips gave a progress report on the \Take a Professor to Lunch\ idea. After meeting with Jan Gray, a tentative maximum of fifty sueh lunches was set, although the par- ticulars of how to go about getting students involved was left open. Several Forum members made suggestions including distributing the tickets on a first come-first served basis, and selecting one specific day a week to hold the program. Next to be presented were the committee reports. V.P. of Administration, Sue Brand, presented the CoC report. At its last meeting, the CoC decided to rewrite the section of their by- laws on recognition of clubs. Previously, the results of a campus-wide poll were to be presented to the CoC as an in- dication of sufficient need for the proposed new organization. The revision now changes the recognition criteria to the provision of sufficient evidence for such a club, which is deemed to be legitimate by the CoC. \The need for the club must be demonstrated,\ added Brand. Brand then proposed the amendment, which was then tabled until next week (stan- dard procedure requires the tabling of all proposed changes in by-laws for one week). It was also announced that the CoC is reviewing the constitution of the Union Cfillege Dance Ense.mble. V.P. for Finance, Brian Laux, presented the Finance Com- mittee report. WRUC requested additional funds for repairs and the purchase of an Optimod (a signal enhancing ·device which is required by the station to comply with FCC regulations). The total amount of requested funds was $4659. The total amount was approved by the Finance Committee. Laux then made a motion requesting Forum approval of th.e allocation. This motion passed unanimously. Continued on page 5 student Forum Voting Record for Meeting of Oct. 8, 1984: Member WRUC$ Men's Glee \Call the Question\ Table Motion on Table Amended Club Funds of AAC discussion AAC proposal AACMotion Brand y y y 'N y Laux y y y N y Midoneck y y y N y George y y y N y Landon y y y y y O'Brien y y y N - y Phillips y y N N y Berne II y y N N y Marin y y y y y Siler y y y N A Lipsky y y y y y Moss y y y N y Mountain y y N N y Megarian y y y N y Harris Absent from this week's Meeting. . . Total 14Y 14Y 11Y-3N 11N-3Y 13Y-1A .. . '\ Jack Hill, Director of Campus Operations, claims only \very dilapidated\ articles were thrown in the dumpsters. He explains that students returning in September often find excess, broken-down furniture in their rooms, move it into the corridors, and maintenance has to remove it. We were trying to \get a jump on this situation,\ Hill says, and \felt the brothers didn't want the bother of removing it.\ \We were trying to clean the buildings better than we have in the past,\ he continues. \If it was dilapidated furniture, then it went out.\ Robert Burke, president of Delta Chi (DC), disagrees. \They're lying when they say they removed the stuff because it was junk, because some wasn't junk.\ DC, Burke reports, lost four working refrigerators, eleven carpets, eleven sofas, and about twenty armchairs. The only results of the workers' · actions are in- convenience and financial loss for the fraternities, and a waste of time for the employees, according to Burke. \We're not going to sit on the floor,\ he says, indicating that DC will replace its loss with similar items. He terms the move \an im- proper use of funds. Money was spent for some things that was unnecessary. They paid their workers to take our things.\ Harris also pointed out that a recent IFC meeting showed that fraternities all. around campus, and not just on Lenox Road, lost property in this manner over the <>ummer. Ott rector of Cleaning Services George Paige maintains, \All the stuff that was thrown out was broken down with the stuffing coming out. I'm not stupid enough to throw out good furniture,\ he adds. Paige also claims he threw out only two refrigerators at DU, and that both were broken and of illegal size for residence rooms. DC brother Warren Tucker, a maintenance employee over the summer break, recalls noticing that three Oriental type rugs he had stored in his room were missing. He was reportedly told that Paige had taken them to have them cleaned. \I went to Paige's office,\ Tucker recalls. \He had them (the rugs) in the office and he said he caught these in time and that he was going to give them to President Morris.\ Paige assures that his comment was more like, \These rugs are good enough to put in the president's house.\ He explains that he recognized Continued on page 5 Since 1877 Serving the Union Community for 1 07 years ~to'DtO IN I) ~~d~ ((oncor t;~ 1 t btenst~ o~·o ~\~tl L i:. ~ t...,ICT#.D~ You've been reading it in Concordy ell Ill Ol :c u Cll c .c a. Ill Cl >- .J:J ell 0 0 .c a.

Page 4 OONOORDIENSIS, Oct·ober 11, 1984 Profile on Frank Coppay Ill IU 01 :c u Q) c: ..r:: a. ~ ~ 0 ..... 0 ..r:: a. AA C Convenes •.• Term Discussed ByJIMMYO. Staff There's a new face in the Modern Languages Department at Union this year. Frank Coppay, Assistant Professor of French, is teaching both in- termediate French and Introduction to the study of French Literature. A professional teacher for the past seven years, Coppay has taught at the University of Kentucky at Lexington, The University of Wisconsin at Madison and most recently, Wabash College, a small liberal arts college for men in Indiana. Professor Coppay grew up in Spokane, Washington. He graduated from Lewis and Clark High School and went on to receive his B.A. in 1969 from Eastern Washington Univer· sity. He then received both his M.A. and Ph.D. in French at the University of Wisconsin at Madison. After spending most of his life west of the Mississippi, moving to Schenectady has been a welcome change for Coppay. He feels that Union is \right in the thick of the academic en- vironment\ and feels lucky to be in a new part of the country. Coppay appreciates Union's close proximity to Quebec where he hopes to take French students before the year is through. After teaching primarily ·at large universities Coppay .feels that small colleges are beneficial to both the student and the professor. Regarding Union's treatment of its faculty members, Coppay feels that \The school is behind us 100 percent. It wants and demands that we succeed.\ He is also pleased that he will be able to spend a term in France with Union students sometime during the next three years. Although Coppay is a professor of French first, his research interests are also very important to him. His major interest is studying the mind's relatienship to language using psychology, linguistics, and math. He is also taking part in a series of conferences in Schenectady and will be speaking on the language of modern science~fiction.. In his free time, Coppay enjoys cycling, white water kayaking and canoeing, and body building at the Holiday Health Spa. Continued from page 1 (Whether this is truly ad- vantageous or not is yet to be seen, but CUE believes it to he more efficient.) Starting classes at 9:00 instead of 8:30 will probably result in more courses being taught at that time. Only twelve percent of all. courses are taught at 8:30 because of the inconvenience of the hour for many faculty. Hopefully, moving the schedule up a half-hour will help alleviate this problem, especially for faculty with school-age children. arts courses. Lab scheduling is made easier by the length of the periods on Tuesdays and Thursdays. The meeting time on Tuesdays and Thursdays will be invaluable to those who find it nearly impossible to schedule meetings. College Center Detailed Tuesday-Thursday classes offer greater flexibility and are ideal for seminars and studio This schedule is just one proposal among many; although it is favored by CUE. The issue needs to be discussed by the AAC, as well as many other organizations on campus, before it can be decided upon. The college community needs to be aware that ROTC and the \gel plan\ are current issues,· although final decisions have not yet been made. Continued from page 1 This design is part of SERA's attempt to focus activity on the center of the building so that from both the inside and the outside, the Center will project an image of activity. This is further enhanced by the plans for the main entrance· which call .for removal of the existing front steps. The new entrance will be surrounded by a large glass front, allowing a view of both Refugee Expresses Views Continued from page 2 was implicated in the death of up to 50,000 in order to contain the movement of the Salvadoran people. One ofthe worst lies staged by the United States, according to \Pedro\ was the recent, so- called democratic elections. The U.S. proposed Duarte as the best candidate for President of El Salvador. Eight days before the elections, President Reagan said he would invite Duarte to the United States, indicating who would win. Money that was approved by the Congress for the elections never arrived in El Salvador, but went to the CIA instead. Not only was· propaganda used to sway the outcome, but the Armed Forces were used as well. The people were given a document that was stamped after voting. The Armed Forces requested to see the documents, killing those who had not voted. People were told they had five minutes to vote, but that the process took eight hours, so they panicked. Long lines developed, creating the illusion that the people were excited about their freedom of choice. Ramos fears that if President Reagan is reelected, it will be a matter of hours before thousands of United States Marines invade El Salvador, fighting against the people. \Pedro\ Ramos was a member of the non- governmental Hwnan Rights Commission. Since 1978, he has had various responsibilities working within this independent organization. The commission has no affiliation to a political group or to the church. Its primary objective is the human rights of the Salvadoran people. There are three departments within the organization: 1) legal aide to captured persons, 2) statistics of the dead and captured, and 3) newspaper editorials. Ramos has worked in all the areas of the commission. For three years he took pictures of the murdered. The government therefore classified him as a communist and kept track of him. Twice they went to his home. Ramos was not there, but two family members were captured. His ten-year-old cousin is missing. His seventeen year old female cousin was captured, tortured, raped and left pregnant. During a sub- sequent torture, she lost het son and is now in prison on the charge of killing a communist. • For his welfare, Ramos had to flee the country. Friends got him as far as Guatemala. He ·then went to Mexico and through the sanctuary project, came to the United State~. Through his appearance, he would like to explain what's happening. He states that we must vote against Reagan. To ease the situation in El Salvador, the sanctuary Ramos fears · that if President Reagan is re- elected, it will be a matter of hours before thousands of United States marines invade El Salvador, fighting against the people. movement should be supported, and information about what's going on should be publicized. The tragedy in El Salvador is similar to that of the Vietnam War, and we should know the truth. President Reagan seems to be worried about the communist influence. Ramos argues that there are no Russians or Cubans in ElSalvador. The only groups benefitting the United States' policies are the Salvadoran oligarchy and the transnational corporations. The legal system is corrupt, reports Ramos. People are secretly taken away by the police. If a civilian is killed, then the police say they did not capture him. If he .goes to prison, then the police that captured him are his witnesses. For an example, Ramos spoke of the four people who killed the four North American nuns. Since they were considered first class political prisoners, they were provided with special food, cells, television, and visiting .privileges. The United States called for action when they found out that justice was not being processed. The Salvadoran · political system responded by bringing 3,000 people in as suspects, feigning democracy. Though the four who did actually conarrrit the crime received 30 years in prison, they may be freed within a month, and they each will receive $2,000. Since they will not be considered as regular citizens, the request to continue service will almost certainly be granted. According to Mr. Ramos, El Salvador was the number one producer of coffee in the world before the transnational companies arrived and stopped the Salvadorans' own production companies. The country also produced the best cotton ·and competed in sugar production. El Salvador is not communist, but 99 percent Christian and peace-loving. The people want a true democracy where they can exercise rights and are recognized as human beings. Today, October 11th at 4:30 p.m., in the Pub, the United States Out of Central America (USOCA) will hold a meeting. Anyone interested or concerned in the need for sanctuary is invited to attend. An Ad Hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of James Lambrinos, Assistant Profess~r I.A.M.·Health Studies Center. Anyone wishing to submit information relating to this review is encouraged to do ~o b~ contacting any of the following members of the co.mm1ttee. Ray Eisenstadt (Chair), Mechanic~ I Engi~eenng; _Don Arnold, I.A.M.-Health Studies; Damel Robbms, Arts, or Shelton Schmidt, Economics. the ground and first floors. Anyone entering wifl walk into a large open lobby and .step down three .or four steps to what is now the Pub level. From there, one will be able to look up to the first floor and also look toward the center lobby. It will also be possible to see all the way back to Jackson's Gardens. The idea is ta direct attention, whether one is inside or outside, toward the center of the building. What follows is a schematic design for the building and is not a final blueprint. Upon entrance to the College Center a student will find himself oriented toward a large central lobby. On his right, there will be a bank of mailboxes, facing out on the open area, rather than in a separate room. Central Mailing will be located behind this area, previously being located behind the Arts and Psychology buildings. On the left, some form of stores will be in operation, though the exact nature of these is not yet decided. They will . probably extend 'to the second floor as well. Off the lobby will be a theater 'seating about 230 and rooms to support its needs. The large area between the center of the building and the Gardens will serve multiple functions, in- cluding a restaurant to serve during lunch, lectures, talks, and possibly some per- formances. At most times, the area will be used as a student gathering place, though it may be sectioned off for its other functions when necessary. Off the main lobby, wiii be a kitchen (for the restaurant) and some form of a pub-lounge. This area will be very large in floor space and in height, looking high above to a glass roof. This is one area the ar- chitects were hopiNg to make much use of, so as to avoid wasting area by dedicating different areas to specific uses. The first floor (not the ground floor) will house a dining facility accomodating ap- proximately three hundred. Large windows will afford a view of the Gardens and there may be a terrace from the dining hall overlooking the Gardens. The kitchen and Food Service offices will also be located on this floor. In ad- dition, some conference and student activity rooms may be located there. The second floor will house many of the student activity rooms with an accompanying lounge for meetings, storage: space, the Concordiensis office, and the Dean's office. WRUC will be located on the third floor as well as other rooms with quiet activity in mind. If all goes smoothly, a final schematic plan will be decided on by the end of the year. Blueprints then will be created some time in January or February. Contract bidding will be completed probably by Apr~, and construction could begm right after commencement, with some ground excavation possibly occurring before then. MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL SPECIALS WILL BE OPEN DURING THE GAME. We will have a Monday Night Football Special: Purchase $3.75 worth of tickets for $3.00 from 8:30p.m. to game's end and you can get: 1 ticket 1 ticket - - 3 tickets == 3 tickets = 1 slice of pizza 1 draft beer 1 pitcher of soft drinks 1 mixed drink Specials Available Only During Game - s B Th~ As so meet ' on • meet mitte ~f th rnittl modi so nnE TIH modi non-a Proc addn assig dispu Als ''inst da r1 Appr non-f addit discl divid supe comr form basis belie' a cor and 1 Thl propc Ua 1 Advi: Pro 01 end1 tern as f peri ·dele Tl Was resL I abc wee Tl the 1985 J.: J.: F1 1986 J.: J.: F1 AI tenc the tt rr (I s w b - A con Ass SUbi eith the L.A AI Fra Lud and Cha cane Gar wist Pro: writ cont Ar con~ Assi

that us 100 is also able to with is a ~st., his very major mind's ~ using and in a in be of In his en some glass ar- make avoid ap- dred. a there the ~ the Food be ad- and be age: ~ffice, the other in final ted or ~will ~ent, ~hen. OONOORDIENSIS, October 1,1, 1984 Page 5 Staff Group Recognized By SARAH CALDERINI News Editor The Union College Staff Association held its first meeting of the academic year on September 12. At the meeting, the Concerns Com- mittee, made up of six members ef the Staff Association, sub- rnitted proposals for modifications . to existing per- sonnel practices. would be composed of two administrators, three staff members, two faculty members and two students. All the above proposals were approved by the Staff Association at the past meeting. With the backing of the St(lff Association, President Yvonne Huxhold, who is secretary of the Modern Languages Depart- ment, sent a copy of these proposals to Director of Per- sonnel, George Richards. Communication Improved Relations Committee would be appointed annually to serve as links between the Administration and the Staff. Two members each from the Academic Departments, Administration, Campus Operations, Food Service and Library will serve on the Committee. \This Human Relations Committee is very similar te the committee which the Staff Association proposed,,; said Huxhold. \We are very pleased that the administration has finallY-taken a step to recognize our organization and to improve communication.\ President of the Staff Associ a lion, Yvonr:1e Huxhold, speaks of the group's progress. The proposals included a modification of ''the existing non-affirmative action Review Procedure.\ The a,reas addressed were the type of assigned work and employee disputes. Also included was a plea to ''institute (an) Annual Stan- dardized performance Appraisal Procedures for all non-faculty personnel.\ This addition calls for a mandatory discussion between · the in- dividual employee and his-her supervisor along with the completion of a job evaluation form. If done on an annual basis, the Concerns Committee believesthis procedure could be a constant check of the status and salaries of staff members. Carbon copies of the ac- companying September 17th letter requesting the opening of communication lines between the Staff Association and the Administration were sent to President John Morris, Vice President Thomas D'Andrea and Vice President John Hauser. Forum Allocates Money Committee Proposed The Concerns Committee also- proposed the establishment of \a College-wide Personnel Advisory Committee'' which Proposal fo~Winter Recess: Since then, neither Huxhold nor any other Staff Association me)Jlber has received a direct response to the letter. However, a letter dated September 27th came to Huxhold from Hauser. Although be did not explicitly recognize Huxhold's letter, Hauser ex- plained that a Hmnan Relations Committee had been organized. He also requested that she serve. on the Committee. · Members of the Human On October 4, 1984, the Student Affairs Council unanimously endorsed a proposal to alter the academi.c calendar for the winter terms of 1985 and 1986. (The Student Forum amended this proposal as follows: The years 1985 and 1986 will be designated as a trial period. Thereafter the Student Forum and the administration will determine the permanence of the Winter Recess.) This alteration entails the inclusion of a two-day vacation prior to Washington's Birthday. The two days will be compensated for by resuming Classes two days earlier than scheduled. Due to laboratory scheduling problems it was necessary that these two weekdays be chosen. The proposed calendar for the winter terms of 1985 and 1986 are the following: 1985 Continued from ,page 3 The Men's Glee Club alsc came to the Finance CommitteE to request additional funds (total $258). This amount was also approved by the Fipance Committee. Laux made another motion, requesting Forum approval of the allocation. This motion also passed unanimously. Mary Phillips gave the Student Affairs Council report. At its last meeting, the SAC came up with a proposal for a mid-winter term vacation (see special Box). Phillips stated the SAC would like the Forum's response to the proposal by the end of the month, so they could then gauge faculty reaction to the proposaL The final decision on the calendar change · is ultimately left up to V. P. D'Andrea and President Morris, though. Much discussion on the issue then ensued. Junior representative Chris Siler made a motion for the Forum's ap- proval of the proposal. This was followed by Tom Megarian's calling for a clarification of the duration of the proposal (see lead quote). Megarian felt the SAC should explain that the proposal was only one that was tentatively scheduled for the next two years, with further approval to be decided later. Some Forum members felt that discussion of the issue should be tabled UHtil next week, thereby providing time for the Forum to get some student feedback on the issue. Other Forum members such as ISC Rep Adam Rosman disagreed, stating, \We are elected representatives of the Formn and should be able to represent the opinions of the students.\ After much further discussion, Shari Midoneck called the question (a motion to stop discussion). This motion, to end discussion was then voted upon, and passed. A vote was then taken on whether or not to table the issue until next week. This motion did not pass. A third and final motion , was made to table the ammended motion, (the proposal was ammended to include the provision suggested by Megarian). A vote was taken on this last issue, with the Fonun passing it, and delaying discussion until next week. Tom Megarian presented the Academic Affairs report. Presently the AAC is negotiating on the giving of academic recognition-credit for ROTC \courses\ taken by students in ROTC (see ac- companying article). So far, the AAC has come up with a proposal that will list the ROTC courses on the transcript, but will not assign any Union academic credit to the courses themselves (they will not count toward graduation). Further discussion is required by the AAC on the issue. Adam Rosman, the Independent Student Coalition Representative reported on the results of the ISC's voter registration drive. Over 130 students registered for the upcoming election. \Overall we feel it was a success,\ stated Rosman. With no Inter-Fraternity Council report to be given due to Roger Harris' absence, a motion was made and passed ·to p.djourn the meeting. Jan. 2--Residence ha lis open at .noon Jan. 3--Winter classes begin Feb. 14-17--Winter Recess 1986 Greek ·Houses Complain Continued from page 3 Jan. 1--Residence Halls open at 5:00 p.m. Jan. 2--Winter classes begin Feb. 13-16--Winter Recess All members of the Union College community are invited to at- tend the Student Forum meeting on Monday, October 15, to discuss the above pr.oposal. the rugs as having value, and, as a practice, stores such items near his office. The rugs could just as easily have been thrown out, according to Paige, but he chose to save them instead. \We didn't have to do it, but we did.\ Paige gave the rugs back An Ad Hoc Committee has been formed to evaluate the tenurability of Douglas Klein, Assistant Professor of Economics. Committee members are Professors Prosper (Economics), A. Taylor (Mathematics), Underwood (Political Science), and Marten (English). Committee Chair. Those who wish to offer their views regarding Professor Klein's teaching, research or college service are invited to write to any member of the Committee, or to contact Professor Marten (ext. 6231) to arrange an interview. to Tucker on request. Hill compliments Paige for his discretion in this matter. ''It shows there was some thought given to what was worth retaining,\ he says. . Burke contends that he never even received the mailing from Residence Life, . though Paige claims Burke admitted to him that he got it, but didn't believe maintenance would follow it. An Ad Hoc Tenure Committee has been formed to report on thetenurability of Assistant Professor Michael Dellaria. The members of this committee are Professors Manfred Jonas (History), Frank Milillo (Mechanical Engineering), Barry Smith (Arts), and Robert Baker (Philosophy), Chair. Anyone wishing to submit written testimony or to give oral testimony before the Committee should contact the Committee Chair. The DC president also asserts that the furniture could have been moved temporarily while the rooms were being cleaned. An Ad Hoc committee has been formed te consider the tenurability of Elizabeth C. Duncart, Asst. Prof. in the Library. Anyone who wishes to submit information to the committee may do so either by arranging for an interview or sending the information in the form of a letter to Prof. L.A. Hull, Department of Chemistry. An Ad Hoc Committee consisting of Professors Francis Lambert (Biological Sciences), Jan Ludwig (Philosophy), Ennis Pilcher (Physics), and Francis Federighi ( E E-Computer Science), Chairperson, has been formed to evaluate the candidacy for tenurability of Assistant Professor Gary R. Reich, Physics Department. Anyone Wishing to submit testimony in regard to Professor Reich's qualifications may reply in writing to any member of the Committee, or contact the chairperson toarrangean interview. An Ad l:loc committee has been convened to consider the tenurability of Martha Huggins, Assistant Professor of Sociol(;lgy. Committee members are Joseph Board, Department OT Political Science; Charles Scaife, Department of Chemistry; Eugene Schneller, Department of Sociology and Institute of Administration and Management; and Ruth Stevenson (chair), Department of English. All who wish te offer their views about Prof. Huggins' teaching, research and college service may write to any member of the committee or contact Prof. Stevenson, ext. 6206, to arrange an interview. An Ad Hoc committee has been formed to assess the tenurability of Bradley Lewis, Assistant Professor of Economics. Persons wishing to contribute testimony concerning Prof. Lewis's teaching, scholarship, and-or collegiality may do so either orally or in writing. Please address statements or requests to testigy to Prof. Charles Tidmarch, Department of Political Science, Social Sciences 215, (ext. 6063). Other members of the committee are Profs. Janet Anderson (Chemistry), James Kenney ( Econo~ics), and Brenda Wineapple (English). \They exercised poor judgment when they say they removed the furniture to clean the rooms, because obviously one can clean a room without throwing the furniture in the dumpster.\ \If they had led us to believe the stuff was being threatened, we would have moved it our- selves,\ he continued. \We're not stupid people.\ Hill, maintaining that the removed articles were in poor condition, argues, \I would agree 100 percent if we were talking about one room, one floor, even one building. Then, each piece could have been removed, the room cleaned, and the furniture returned. We have to put this in perspective of the quantity of rooms involved.\ He says most independents, freshmen and new students living in campus housing want their rooms clean and free of worn out furniture. Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa accepts the physical plant's actions as proper, but wishes students had known to take last year's Residence Life notice seriously. \The physical plant staff, in my opinion, did the right thing with respect to removing old fur- niture which was beyond repairs. All campus residents, including those in fraternities and sororities were notified in late May by the Office of Residence Life to remove all personal property (including furniture) from their rooms,\ Massa says. Hill believes the letter from- Residence Life, although ex- plicit on the policy of removing items from rooms, \needs to be reworded or brought up to date.\ The warning regarding personal items and debris left in rooms has been included in this year's housing contracts and student handbooks. This has not been the practice in past years, but the caveat has instead been sent to all campus dwellers. Massa sees a lack of com- munication as contributing to this summer's misun- derstanding, and stresses Residence Life notices must always be taken literally and seriously, in order to avoid problems·. \I understand that, in the case of fraternities, the College had perhaps not followed the Residence Life dictum to the letter in past · years. My only regret in this case is that I Wf.iS unable to inform the students before they left in June that the College planned a thorough cleaning of all rooms in fraternities and sororities,\ Massa explained. One suggestion Massa offers for those who must leave per- sonal property in their rooms is to tag the items with signs in- dicating the pieces are to be saved. Each Thursday at noon Concordiensis is dropped off at Carnegie. Please Help carry a staclc or two into Carnegie on your way in if possible. Thanlc you. Ill 10 .~ .I: u <II c .c c. 10 0 >- .0 0 0 .c c.

Page 6 OONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1984 - FEATURES G.O.P. Opens·Headquarters By ERIC LIPMAN Staff Someone once said a national Presidential campaign was a wild nine-month hurricane which rips across the nation every four years. The ar:~alogy is a good one; and last week the Reagan-Bush whirl wind touched down on the Union campus, blazing a trail towards the city of Schenectady. The report I write is a diary of sorts; thoughts on the size and force of the local campaign front, taken- -as it were....;from inside the eye of this hurricane. Professor Daniels, Associate Professor of Undergraduate !:>tuclles The first campaign stop was Monday's Reagan-Bush committee meeting. That night, about twenty-five of us assembled in a classroom in Social Sciences, listening in- tently as Brian Kelly, one of the Reagan-Bush coordinators, Academics . .. A Scandal At Union By EMILY LOOSE Staff Several incidents of academic dishonesty this past Spring may have raised questions in the college community as to the procedure of resolving and disciplining these incidents. The man through whose office these incidents are resolved is Professor William J. Daniels, Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies. A Political Science professor and member of the Union faculty since September, 1966, Daniels was appointed to the Deanship effective September 1, 1083. In response to approximately twenty allegations of dishonesty last Spring term, roughly one quarter of which were resolved as not guilty or in which the charges were dropped, . the Dean expresses his dissatisfaction with the prevalence of cases and his determination to pursue means more effective in the deterrence of dishonesty. Definition of dishonesty Should the allegations be unresolved after this initial meeting, the student must meet with the complete Committee on Standing of Students, a sub- committee of the Academic Affairs Council (AAC) con- sisting of four faculty members, one from each area of studies, three full-time undergraduates appointed by the Committee on Committees, the Associate The penalty most frequently incurred in allegations found justified is the failure of the course in concern · .. Dean of Undergraduate Studies, Dean Daniels, Dean of Students, Joseph Mammola, and the Registrar, Dwight Wolfe. Guidelines concerning this formal meeting require that the Committee in scheduling the meeting allow the student adequate time to pr~pare. The student is also allowed to invite a member of the college community as an advisor during the proceedings, and . to review the membership of the committee and express any desired change in that mem- bership. The evidence leading to the charges brought is heard, following which the student may present any explanatory or contradictory evidence, not in the manner of a trial, but as an open exchange of perceptions of those involved. The penalty most frequently incurred in allegations found justified is the failure of the course in concern, but penalties range from the reduction of the ceurse grade to suspension from the college. Hoping to increase effective deterrence of dishonesty, Dean Daniels expects this year to prepare periodic reports to the Academic Affairs Council of specific incidents and the details of the procedures followed in dealing with them and the disciplines directed against them. These reports may involve the requesting of stiffer penalty guidelines. The Dean hopes also to com- municate these incidents to the college community in the form of periodic dispositions of cases brought before the Committee, preserving the confidentiality of . these cases, that is, withholding the names of those involved and the specific details of each case, but providing an overview of their rrccurrences and the steps taken against them each term. Lisa Birnbach's College Book spoke on the goals of the organization. Brian has had extensive experience with the operation of national cam- paigns, returning most recently from an internship in the Washington-based Reagan- Bush campaign headquarters. Yet as he noted, the extent of training is not the most im- portant factor in a campaign such as this, rather it is whether or not the entire group is working on concert towards the common goal. It was a lesson in teamwork, and almost im- mediately you could sense the center core take shape. I was given a brief moment to address the group, detailing where the committee might hope to move next. Without question, those assembled were anxious to participate in the Fan campaign, and the perfect place to start would he the Grand Opening of Schenec- tady's Reagan-Bush Headquarters, scheduled for Thursday. As a final not, I made an appeal for people who would be interested in helping prepare the headquarters beforehand or attending the celel1ration: I left The school's definition of academic dishonesty might best · be derived from its definition of academic dishonesty, \the responsibility to do one's own work\ with \open and direct acknowledgement of all materials and ideas that are derived from other writers,'' which alludes to problems with both in-class examinations and take-home assignments. This past Spring incidents were divided • equally between the plagiarism of material in papers and lab reports and irregularities in examinations. More Fiction Than Fact Rather than implementing new disciplinary procedures the Dean. has maintained traditional practices but has organized these practices into a set of specific '' Procedureal Guidelines for Adjudicating Charges of Academic Dishonesty.\ According to these guidelines, after an initial alleg?tion is made by a faculty or student body member, an informal review of the case including the student charged, the person making the charge, and the Dean will present the student charged with a written coph of allegations and offer ths student the chance to dispose of those charges whether by ad- mitting to them or sufficiently arl;(uing his or bier innocence. By ANNAMALAI MUTHIAH Staff Lisa Birnbach, the author of the Official Preppy. Handbook, has written another book recently, known as the Lisa Birnbach's College Book. Unfortunately she delved into a subject that requir~s more than two years to research. During thetime that she was promoting her first book, she visited 186 schools throughout the country and spent a day at each of them. She claims that her book is an inside scoop, the kind that you can only learn by visiting the campuses. \It's the real thing.\ Well, I'm afraid this is not the \real thing\. This book gives a biased view of what college life is all about. A college ex- perience is so:::nething one has to experience for oneself. We all have different tastes. Also,. one simply can't visit a college for one day and claim that they know every aspect. of it. Sure, one would learn a few things like, how late pizza deliveries are made and what are some of the events that go around the college. The Barrons Book on colleges doesn't tell you such things, but they believe that emphasis should be on college education and atmosphere. A college experience is something that you cannot capture on paper. What Ms. Birnbach discusses in her book is not the college experience, it is a cheap, flashy imitation written by a person ti·ying to make a quick buck after her first successful book. Now, if you are still interested in the book and care to know what she has to say about Union, don't waste the ten dollars. She begins by sahing that you will like Union if your name is either Michael or Susan and come from Long Island and are thinking of majoring in science or engineering. She believes that Union was a last choice school for some of us who did not get into Tufts or Brown. Also, did you know that boys at Union wear velour shirts and girls have short hair. Gee, I don't remember ever buying a velour shirt. Finally, she ends by cracking a few inane jokes about Fitzhugh Ludlow Day. These are the kinds of facts that she gathered in the time that she spent at these colleges. Her conclusions are very opinionated and this is a book that simply should not have been written in the first place. with a list of twenty names. On ·wednesday, the com- mittee convened again for a marathon poster-making session. There weren't any aspiring artists among us, but spirits were high as we looked forward to tomorrow's headquarter debut. On the big day, armed with our posters and a Reagan-Bush cheer written for ~the occasion~ Union'S students were the star attraction of the debut. \Until I saw you guys,\ . remarked a prominent local politician, \I thought this was a senior citizen meeting.'' W orkiAg on stomachs full with free beer and pizza, we won both the praise .of the local county chairman, Clark Wemple, and the at- tention of the news cameras. The evening was a success. As we move further down th~ campaign trail, no doubt we will see both the rewards, and our reputation grow. Union's Reagan-Bush committee will then not only be a route into the world of campaign politics, it will be the Schenectady Republican' most valuable resource. The following Student Forum Committees have vacancies: • Research & Grant Sub- Council ( 1) • Athletic Liaison (1) • Traffic and Pet (1 Chair; 1 Regular) • Social Committee (6) Applications for these positions will be available starting Thursday, October 4th and will be due on Friday, October ?Oth by 4:30p.m. For more information: · please contact Mrs. Marra at Student Ac- tivities Office. - \W€ would stated Many exact! patron As a resea: uncov1 behinc The forma to me1 else c: name part o one co Feat unique muncl tertai1 distinc and p tracte< stu den pers01 E: By \Ca charm cultur goodm is ho~ Schem ways i are n teresti to s Schem numbe A si town < comm1 the lc climat terpie \renai Squar(

com- for a a king any but looked with star I a \I on of ~man, at- ss. th~ will will to the it ent r, 1 ~se ber ay, ~c- OONOORDIENSIS, October 11, 1984 Page 7 FEATURES Watching the ales \These people would have no reason to live without the Skellar.\ Rathskellar: Need a good excuse to spend a weekend on Cape Cod? Why not try whale watching. On Sep- tember 29, l984 approximately 40 Union students and professors did just that. The two-day trip to Provincetown was sponsored jointly by the Biology Department and the Biology Club. Professor George Butterstein of the Biology Department planned and organized the trip during the summer months. The trip was opeA to all Union students. Those taking Biology 32 - Comparative Vertabrate Anatom~ were especially en- couraged to attend. The cost of the trip was only $25.00. This included a round trip bus ticket one night in a Provinceto~ hotel and, of course, the whale watch. The group left from the parking lot behind Richmond at The Reason To Live By LARRY KAMINSKY Photo Editor & FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER \Were the Skellar to close, I would have no reason to live,\ stated one die-hard Skellar Rat. Many people might wonder exactly what attracts people to patronize this establishment? As a result of extensive research, Concordiensis has uncovered the \~told story\ behind the Skeilar's success. The Skellar provides an in- formal atmosphere for students to meet and socialize. \Where else can one go, inscribe their name in a table, and become part of Union's history?\ told one concerned Rat. Featured at the Skellar are a unique blend of classic music, munchies and video en- tertainment. The Skellar's distinctive selection of video and pinball games have at- tracted a devoted following of students determined to achieve personal distinction and satisfaction. Evidence for this is provided by the dent in \Lucky Hand\ .. More competition is furnished by the football table, situated in the far corner of the Skellar. Many a Friday or Saturday night students can witness a heated match between intense competitors who have been playing the game for a majority of their college careers. \Withoutthattable (the football table), there would be no reason to live.\ In addition to the wild night life that is present at the Skellar, it also serves another necessary campus function. ·For those students who tire of the cafeteria style food served at West and Hale, the Skellar presents a unique alternative: Good old American junk food. Upperclassmen throng to the Skellar to sample its fine cuisine. \If I had to eat at West and Hale every night, there would be no reason to live,\ proclaimed one upperclass meal card user. With the recent raising of the drinking age, many freshmen feel that they are no longer welcome to partake of the Skellar's attractive offerings. Fear not patrons, each person is designated as a drinker or non- drinker; and then is served accordingly, free to partake of the establishment's fine social opportunities. Said one con- cerned freshman, \If I c·ould not get my week~y sampling of Skellar atmosphere, even though I cannot drink, there would be no reason to live.\ The Rathskellar has become a Union College Institution ranking along with Chester Arthur, the Nott Memorial, and the movie \The Way We Were\. There is nowhere else where students can relax from the rigors of academic life and dance on the tables. If the Skellar were to close, many a hand would raise to wipe away tears shed mourning the loss of such a long-standing tradition. Essence of a Small City By DAVE FITZGERALD Features Editor \Capture the magic, the charm of a time gone by, the culture, and the natural ~oodness of Schenectady.'.' This Is how a brochure describing Schenectady begins. In many ways it is correct because there are many cultural and in- teresting things to do and places to see in Schenectday. Schenectady really does have a number of things to .offer. A simple look at the down- town area will show that the community is trying to improve the looks and the business climate of the area. The cen- terpieces of · the downtown \renaissance\ .are tfie Canal Square Shopping District and the Center City Arena. There are many small shops and boutiques, you can rent a paddle boat, and you can go ice skating in the downtown shopping district. Every Friday, the Canal Square Businesses hold a \Happy Hour\. Drinks, snacks, music, and good times are of- fered to all. Not only can you shop downtown now, but you can also have ~ good time. Only a few minutes from campus the Schenectady Stockade can be found. \A world of narrow lanes, secluded flower gardens, old Dutch stoeps and gambrel roods.\ The Steckade is a very old and beautiful section of Schenec- tady. Many of the houses there were built before the Revolutionary War. ALL ARE INVITED To the first meeting of the term of the For people that like to go to museums, the Schenectady Museum is just the place for you. In the rnusewn there are exhibits of natural and historic heritage of the Schenectady area and a large planetarium with lasar shows. Proctor's Theatre is a 2,723- seat performing arts center. In Proctor's, many talented and famous performers have performed since its beginning in 1926. Each year, international ·dance troupes, musical per- formances, and movie classics are seen by thousands of people in Proctor's. · There are many things to do right in Schenectady so the next time that you are bored, just look around-you are certain to find something. UNION COLLEGE INVESTMENT ALLIANCE Tonight, Thurs., Oct. 11 at7 p.m. in Stage Two, Carnegie. If you are unable to attend, please contact either: Russ: 6895 or Marc: 6727 or drop a note in box 2589. 12:30 p.m., Friday, September 28 and arrived in Provincetown at about 7: 15 p.m. After settling into the hotel, most of the group sampled seafood at the \Lob- ster Pot\ and then enjoyed the Cape's nightlife. Saturday morning at 8:30, the group met on the Provincetown pier and boarded the Ranger IV for the day's excursion. Despite chilly temperatures and a brisk wind, the group was enthHsed about the trip. The first group of whales was sighted about an hour offshore. It was a group of approximately fifteen to twenty Pilot Whales. A group fo whales traveling together is called a pod. Pilot Whales are mediwn sized and are deep bakk in color. They lack distinguishing markings or colorations and this makes it difficult for researchers to identify and track them. The body structure of the Pilot Whale closely resembles that of a large dolphin. Shortly after these whales were spotted, a second pod of Pilot Whales came into view. The two pods converged and traveled together for some time. The whales dove in groups of three to six making a spectacular sight. _ _ After the two pods separated and moved off, the Ranger IV headed farther out in search of other species. Soon thereafter, two humpback were spotted and trailed. Humpback Whales are considerably larger than Pilot Whales and do have distinct white markings. Thus, they can be identified easily and followed by researchers. These two particular whales had been traveling in the area for about two weeks and had frequently been spotted together by the Ranger IV. The researchers aboard were most intrigued by this as the Humpba~k Whale is generally a loner. Both of the whales were quite active. They dove frequently displaying their tails and fins for the ap- preciative crowd on board. The largest species of whale which frequents the coastal waters of the Cape is the Finback Whale. Unfortunately, this spectacular mammal was spotted only briefly as it swam rapidly past the Ranger IV. Even the brief glimpse was enough to provoke many comments about the magnificent size of the whale. The Ranger IV returned to shore at about 1:30 p.m. The entire group seemed thrilled by the experience and considered the trip well worth their time. \I really loved it.\ \What a neat experience.\ \I'm so glad I carne.\ These were some of the reactions of the whale wat- chers. Following the trip, the group visited the streets of Provin- cetown before departing at about 3:00p.m. Professor Butterstein said he considered the trip a success and would like to see it become an annual fall term event. An Ad Hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurabil-ity of Prof. Helen McDermott of the Modern Languages Department. Anyone wishing to submit· in- formation relating to this review is encouraged to do so by con:acting any of the following members of the committee: D:Wtght ~haup (c~airm.an}, Economics; John Boyer, Bt!llogy; Lmda Patnk, Philosophy; or Anton Warde, Modern Languages. ELP WANTED: PART- TIME position available for college to represent travel company on campus. Earn -commission, free travel and work experience. contact: Beachcomber Tours, Inc., 1325 Millersport Hgwy., Williamsville, N.Y. 14221 (716) 632-3723.

Ill Ill QJ .... a.. :g u rJ) >- .0 Page 8 CONOOBJ)llDNSIS, October 11, 1984 Students Defy New Law (CPS )-Students at the University of Wisconsin- Madison-joined by disgruntled students from across the state- staged a mass ''drink-in\ on .the steps of the state capitol last week to protest efforts to raise the drinking age there to 21. be return.ed \till the students have their beer.\ Problems and complications with alcohol policies also are plaguing such schools as For. Hays State University, Arizona State, St. Bonaventure, and New Mexico, to name just a few. now raising their drinking ages to 21, creating displaced drinkers who have no place to drink except on campus,'' he says. Finally, Kel:ler notes, \alcohol abuse has replaced drug abuse as the number one student behavior problem. And all these problems combined are really making alcohol an issue at many colleges and universities.'' 0 i :; .. ·~/ -~ >t~. \-~: ', / ,',.<'it \We , as students, understand that we and our peers will not stop drinking because the law dictates that we do,\ proclaimed Dan Katz, legislative affairs director for the Wisconsin Student Association, wtl:ich represents student g1>vernments from campuses around the state. Alcohol-related problems are \obviously taking up mote time of campus law enforcement agencies these days, and alcohol abuse is a greater problem, or at least recognized more,\ says Dan Keller, director of Campus Crime Prevention Programs and chief of public safety at the University of Louisville. The whole \get to1;1gh'' at- titude toward student drinking, some believe,, is only making the matter worse at many schools. ll. new addition to Union's campus, the Geological Pyramid stands behind Achilles Rink. Pyramid Appears By JED DELANEY Staff There is a special new ad- dition to Union's campus this year: a Pyramid. Instead of housing the bodies of past Pharoahs, this Pyramid marks the area's twelve great eras of geological time starting with the Pre-Cambrian Era (the oldest) at the base, with the Mohawk Era. Also, included with the Pyramid is a Time Capsule buried near the '>tructure. Union College would have been without the Pyramid if it had not caught the attention of Frank Griggs, professor of Civil Engineering here at Union. The Pyramid was sitting uncared for and deteriorating in Schenectady's Central Park. A member of the faculty noticed it and alerted Griggs. He im- mediate~y took interest in the fifty-year-old structure which was designed originally as a Boy Scout Memorial by E.C.S. Smith, professor of Geology at Union in the thirties. Professor Griggs undertook the renovation ·of the Pyramid, however he lacked capitaL As if guided by an unseen hand, a civil eng·ineering student asked Professor Griggs if he knew of a project that PSI Upsilon could fund on occasion of its !5oth anniversary. Griggs thus found the capital he needed, and with the blessing of The Schenectady City Council, work began on the Pyramid last Fall. The Pyramid stands near Whipple Bridge in back of Achilles Rink. The new addition to the campus is, as G :r.iggs puts it, \a very graphic simulation of New York State's geology.\ Women Meet By ANITA McMAHON Staff The President's Commission on the Status of Women at Union College held their second meeting of the year last Thursday, October 4, headed by Joan Krejci. In honor of the centennial of Eleanor Roosevelt's birth, Mrs. Imogene Sherman Papadopoulos has been invited to speak on \Women Men and Volunteerism in America\ at a luncheon today. Mrs. Papadopoulos, an enthusiastic proponent of volunteerism and a woman who, at age fifty-five, is completing her law degree, promises to be an appropriate and interesting guest. The next item on the agenda was a proposal for a party I ) '@ II, featuring fall harvest desserts. It was decided that the party, with a tentative title of \Just Desserts,\ will take place on October 31 between 12:30 and 1:30 in the lower Hale House lounge. The Commission is expecting a large turnout. Also discussed were plans for the upcoming winter colloquia and visits from special guest lecturers. Professor Ruth Stevenson, of the English Department, suggested that, this year, the colloquium speakers should be of both sexes in an attempt to interest campus men, as well as women, in women's issues. As for special lectures, a committee was formed to try to bring in dynamic women such as Gloria Steinam, Germaine Greer, and other famous women. The defiance of new drinking policies expressed by Katz and other students at the Wisconsin drink-in--where the day's motto was ''F-k 'em if we can't take a drink\-has been echoed by students around the nation over the last month. While some experts predicted tough new campus drinking regulations nationwide would cause some students unease as they learned new ways to socialize, it appears that many students are flaunting the regulations openly and at times even outwardly rebelling against them. Violators arrested At North Carolina State University, for instance, state alcohol control agents recently busted '36 students in one night for alcohol policy violations at a campus frat party. The next night agents arrested 53 more NCSU students on similar charges. Police arrested 56 students for liquor violations at Illinois State University during the first weekend in September, and I arrested 47 more violators the following weekend. Indiana makes ·random checks in a desperate attempt to enforce the new alcohol policy on that campus, where freshmen supposedly believe \that you come to IU to get drunk,'' says Dean of Students Michael Gordon. \Some very important people, including some students, staff, anp faculty, are willing to say, 'Ha, (the campus alcohol policy) is all a very funny joke,'\ Gordon com- plains. That's evidently the feeling of some Notre Dame students, who last sununer \kidnapped\ a bust of famed football coach Knute Rockne to protest the school's drinking policy. Along with a: color picture of the bust comfortably tanning at a nearby beach, the Notre Dame student paper has received a ransom note warning that the Rockne sculpture won't \' ;~' .. :~ :. \\rn~ ~~'l t &a~\\~ ~\\.0, 'Na GoT ~Re.a N\O~TKS \0 rlGi@.R ~WAY TO \~ROW RaA~ OU\ \\1\'t~OU\ \.aTTU\li MOt-lbM.a lh\,P \We have two or three major things· happening at the same time that are making the alcohol problem greater, or at least more visible on a lot of campuses,\ he explains. For one thing, \students who rnay have been drinkil.1g legally off campus are now tran- sferring their drinking habits to campus · where new policies make drinking illegal.\ In addition, \many states are \Any time you trim back people's rights and opportunity, there will be some reactions,\ ' says Jonathan Burton, executive director of the National Interfraternity Con- ference. Just as many students and fraternities were endorsing new drinking policies and campus alcohol awareness programs, he says, administrators and politicians started cramming new rules down students' throats. Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow, Michdt=l r>apadopoulus has been at Union all week. He will be speaking today at 1:30 in SSllO and in HU112 at 1: 30.Tomorrow, he will be speaking in BH205at 10:30. Alummni Come Home ••• Weekend Planned Homecoming '84 begins Friday, Oct. 12, at Union College featuring three days of activities including a football game against RPI, a lecture by politician John Anderson, the annual homecoming parade, academic presentations, a Glee Club Concert, and fireworks. This year's weekend will commemorate the significance of Jackson's Garden, a Union landmark for over 150 years. Highlighting the weekend will be a lecture and walking tour of the garden with Prof. H. Gilbert Harlow Saturday morning at 11;30 a.m. Later in the day will be the traditional President's Reception, also held in the Garden. Chairpersons this year are Robert L. Bruhn, Class of 1969; Kathryn L. Mullaney, Class of 1974; and Peter D. Mohr and Sandra M. Nagler, Class of 1985. Hundreds of alumni and their families are expected to join members of the College com- munity for the weekend, and the public is invited to ·attend. The weekend's schedule in- cludes: - A lecture by John Anderson on \Third Party Politics,\ Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m. Ti~kets may be purchased at the Student Activities Box Office, Carnegie Hall. The talk is sponsored by Student Speakers Forum. - Academic presentations and receptions, beginning at 11 a.m. Saturday in various departments, including a discussion of \Election '84\: A Social Science Perspective,\ to be held in Strauss Longe, Carnegie Hall. - The annual homecoming parade, 12:15 p.m. Saturday. Formation begins in Seward- Nott parking lot, then travels past Carnegie Hall, down Alexander Lane and out 1884 gate, down Union Avenue to Union Street, in the Blue Gate, past the President's HouSe to Alexander Field. -Union's Dutchmen take on RPI, Astroturf Field, 1:30 p.m. Saturday. The game marks the 82nd reneral for the Dutchman Shoes Trophy. At half time, College President John S. Morris will present the Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy and Float Awards. -President's Reception, Jackson's Garden, 4 to 5 p.m. Saturday. - Men's and Women's Glee Clubs' Annual Homecoming. Concert, Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m. Saturday. -Gala Fireworks Display, Library Field, 9:15 p.m. ,Saturday. Homecoming weekend programs are available at the Alwnni Office, Lamont House, Union College. Further in- formation is available by calling the Aluni Office, 370- 61.65.

h OONOORDIENSIS, October 11, 1984 Page 9 LETTERS • To the Editor; While walking through the dormitories at Union, one will n<>tice that many .of the rooms have paneling on the walls. To many, it is an attractive alternative to posters, and enhancesthe aesthetic value of the room. With this in mind, we proceeded to parte! one wall of the main room of our suite. It is important to know, that prior to hanging the paneling, the R.A. was clearly aware of our in- tentions. On the following day, much to our surprise, we were approached by the R.A. and later by the 11-esident Coor- dinator, stating that the paneling must be removed from the room; failure to do so would result in a fine. They noted that the paneling was a fire hazard. We gladly agreed to fire retard the paneling. This was declared as impermissible and we were directed .to the Residence Director. His office directed us back to the Resident Coor- dinator, who in turn sent us back to Residence Life. After traveling a most irritating and circuitous route, we spoke to Mr. Wood, Director of Paneling Blues Residence Life. He insisted that the hanging of paneling 'broke · the following reguLation: ''HO'USing policy prohibits aH construction in residence hall rooms .. \ We, in our in- terpretation of this most am- bigiou,s statement did not see that the rranging of paneling broke such a code. Mr. Wood then insisted that the paneling was a fire hazard, and damages the walls. We restated our willingness to fire retard the paneling, which is permissible by N.Y.S. fire laws. Concerning the damage to the walls, the damage had already occurred with the prior hanging 0f the paneling. We agreed, however, to bear all financial costs for damages incurred, if the paneling was allowed to remain throughout the academic year. Mr. Wood quickly dismissed the issue by saying simply that the paneling had to be removed. We would like to note one of the many inconsistencies in Mr. Wood's argument, and that is that the Resident Coordinator's dorm room in Davidson is paneled, as well as many other dorm rooms. We would ap- preciate if Mr. Wood could explain to us, and the rest of the student body, why this ex- ception is permissible. Obviously dissatisfied, we called President Morris's office for an appointment to further discuss the matter. After going through three secretaries to obtain an appointment, we were told that President Morris was out of town through Friday. On Friday morning, a secretary called notifying us that we would be unable to meet with President Morris to discuss the issue, stating that the issue was not reason enough to speak with President Morris. Wefeelthat it is important that President Morris remain accessible te aU students of the college. It would seem that at a school that is small and \p.ersonal'' the President should be readily available, not just when you enter as a freshman, and then as he hands you a diploma as a senior. Given a valid reason, we are willing to accept any decision made by the college pertaining to this most inequitable matter. Respectfully, Davidson 151 Changes Not So- Bad To the Editor: In last week's Concordiensis, we criticized . the Administration for not listening to the concerns of the students, specifically with regard to the changes planned for Jackson's Gardens and elsewhere on campus. However, last week it became apparent that the College has in fact altered its original plans. The road has been moved and will not disturb 'WORK WITH THE BEST ••• FEED THE REST' SGT. '84 West College Needs YOU! Anyone interested .in working at West College Dining HaH, contact Pete, Jared, or Robin at West. as much of the Gardens, and it looks as though not as many parking lots will be built. Naturally, we would rather have The Gardens preserved from any interference what- soever. Isaac W. Jackson ·would probably disapprove of having automobiles cruising through the marigolds and the petunias, and Fitzhugh Ludlow would undoubtedly find it disap- pointing to see our \Delphic waters\ streaming through a tube instead of in the old- fashioned form of a brook that bounds. But Isaac and Fitzhugh have left Union for good, and soon most of us will leave Union, too, albeit only tem- porarily (we hope). So in this spirit of Homecoming, then let's keep Union a beautiful place to keep coming back to. Sincerely, The Student Environmental Alliance 2nd Annual Fall Student PHONATHON Wed. Nov. 7 & Thurs. Nov. 8 5:30-9:30 pm Carnegie Banquet Room Dinner 5:30 Calling Be9ins 6:30 Sign up sheets posted in residence halls RSVP Annual Fund Office By Nov. 5 with your team- x6174 PRIZES, FUN, FOOD 4 to a team- HURRY! 1st come, 1st serve basis ~Jltlfllrbirnsis Fouflfkrl at ( lmon Co/leg~ 181? ------------- ------------ Aesthetic Improvements? The summer of '84 saw many changes on Union's campus, some good and some bad. Upon returning to school this fall, students were confronted with the following: A new courtyard in front of West College, a road still under construction cutting behind Physicai Plant, freshly painted buildings, black signs labeling various dormitories and academic buildings along with the loss of the Greek letters on the Fox and Davidson fraternity facades, and amongst many other alterations, a series of black posts drilled into various walkways and roads on campus. Although many of the changes may be perceived as positive or negative, depending upon one's point of view, the latter altEn·ation noted presents questions aboqt necessity vs. aesthetics. Physical Plant spent a portion of this past summer drilling holes into the ground and filling said holes with black posts. Apparently the purpose of the_se posts placed at the ends of various campus thoroughfares is to relegate the automobile traffic to only certain parts of the campus. Physical Plant has committed a noble gesture in trying to keep Union as much of a walking campus as possible but it has sacrificed not only convenience, but ~esthetics as well in the process. Granted, there is little necessity for campus driving beyond that of security and delivery, but the addition of these posts to keep traffic off certain areas is one way in which Physical Plant nas gained one aesthetically pleasing attribute while losing another. Union may have less campus traffic now, thus contributing to a more desirable environment, but the College has acquired a series of ugly black posts in the process. Could Physical Plant have thought of a more attractive way of limiting access to these routes? Another consideration is moving in and out of the dormitories. Although it is less than desirable to have cars drive up on the lawn to the back of Fox and Davidson for instance, expecting students to walk back and forth from the parking lots with heavy boxes twice a year is not a reasonable request. Possibly Physical Plant did not consider this inconvenience or perhaps it is insensitive to this problem. Maybe Physical Plant, or whoever gave the actual order for Physical Plant to install those posts, should consider its actions in this matter or at least find a more aesthetically pleasing mode of implementing a limited access policy to these pathways. It seems that the money used to buy and implant these poles could have been used in a more productive manner. So Watt? Watts this all about? Well, it seems that the Student Forum has begun to see the light. Too much light as a matter of fact! It seems that heating and utility costs at Union have always been quite steep, though they have been written into the college budget each year with little question. An ingenious caJD.paign has been started to turn down the lights a bit and tum down the heat as well. Have no fear, the lights will be strategically chosen so as not to interfere with living comfort or safety. Students have been complaining about the heat each year: classes are too hot, dorm rooms often feel like saunas, and the library in many places is more conducive to a warm nap than for staying awake studying. For those students who do need the heat and feel they are not getting enough, now the College will provide space heaters for those cold wintry days. Students are encouraged to help out. The money saved through energy conservation can help lower tuition costs, provide greater funds for financial aid, or ease any of a number of financial problems. Over one million dollars was spent last year on energy costs alone. The college saved an estimated three hundred thousand dollars through insulation and other conservation measures undertaken this past summer. Now it is our tum to help out. Tum out lights not needed in the dorms. Alert the physical plant to any cases of energy waste on campus. A little less light now can mean a brighter Union future. Save a watt.

h OR I '· i l' I I i· '. ! I CONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1984 Page 9 LETTERS Paneling BJu,es To the Editor: While walking through the dormitories at Union, one will notice that many of the rooms have paneling on the walls. To many, it is an attractive alternative to posters, and enhances the aesthetic value of the room. With this in mind, we proceeded to panel one wall of the main room of our suite. It is important to know, that prior to hanging the paneling, the H.A. was clearly aware of our in- tentions. On the following day, much to our surprise, we were approached by the R.A. and later by the Resident Coor- dinator, stating that the paneling must be removed from the room; failure to do so would result in a fine. They noted that the paneling was a fire hazard. We gladly agreed to fire retard the paneling. This was declared as impermissible and we were directed to the Residence Director. His office directed us back to the Resident Coor- dinator, who in turn sent us back to Residence Life. After traveling a most irritating and circuitous route, we spoke to Mr. Wood, Director of Residence Life. He insisted that the hanging of paneling broke the following regulation: \Housing policy prohibits all construction in residence hall rooms.\ We, in our in- terpretation of this most am- bigious statement did not see that the hanging of paneling broke such a code. Mr. Wood then insisted that the paneling was a fire hazard, and damages the walls. We restated our willingness to fire retard the paneling, which is permissible by N. Y.S. fire laws. Concerning the damage to the walls, the damage had already occurred with the prior hanging of the paneling. We agreed, however. to bear all financial costs for damages incurred, if the paneling was allowed to remain throughout the academic year. Mr. Wood quickly dismissed the issue by saying simply that the paneling had to be removed. We would like to note one of the many inconsistencies in Mr. Wood's argument, and that is that the Resident Coordinator's dorm room in Davidson is paneled, as well as many other dorm rooms. We would ap- preciate if Mr. Wood could explain to us, and the rest of the student body, why this ex- ception is permissible. Obviously dissatisfied, we called President Morris's office for an appointment to further discus\ the matter. After going through three secretaries to obtain an appointment, we were told that President Morris was out of town through Friday. On Friday morning, a secretary called notifying us that we would be unable to meet with President Morris to discuss the issue, stating that the issue was not reason enough to speak with President Morris. We feel that it is important that President Morris remain accessible to all students of the college. It would seem that at a school that is small and \personal\ the President should be readily available, not just when you enter as a freshman, and then as he hands you a diploma as a senior. Given a valid reason, we are willing to accept any decisioh made by the college pertaining to this most inequitable matter. Respectfully, Davidson 151 Changes Not So Bad To the Editor: In last week's Concordiensis, we criticized the Administration for not listening to the concerns of the students, specifically with regard to the changes planned for Jackson's Gardens and elsewhere on campus. However, last week it became apparent that the College has in fact altered its original plans. The road has been moved and will not disturb 'WORK WITH THE BEST ••• FEED THE REST' SGT. '84 West College Needs YOU! Anyone interested in working at West College Dining Hall, contact Pete, Jared, or Robin at West. Photo.Elditors Sports Pnot<l l!lditor SUbscripti()n Emtors .:, Staff: Mickey Bradley, Tedatnnon~ Leela Choudhury, James. t)elaney, C<llleen Dundon,. AltlX Gatttnerj &eh G~e ·lo · · . . t . {1:~-[~,J-y, .. ·. in1 r Mohrt ~etm o~c()nne , .. Pasoon:t T()tlY . PellOfiE;, .. Stev.e r ~~o~ l($'e~ Saund~tlf' Trislia SchU$tei\t ~b SharpeJ Laur~e suer, Uckty Soley, Jattice Tli~triSOn) Aar<1n TO Voris~ Sherry Weitzen, Scott Wykoff. . Photo Staff: Dave. Croasdale~ .Scott. Pr~s. as much of the Gardens, and it looks as though not as many parking lots will be built. Naturally, we would rather have The Gardens preserved from any interference what- soever. IsaacW. Jackson would probably disapprove of having automobiles cruising through the marigolds and the petunias, and Fitzhugh Ludlow would undoubtedly find it disap- pointing to see our \Delphic waters\ streaming through a tube instead of in the old- fashioned form of a brook that bounds. But Isaac and Fitzhugh have left Union for good, and soon most of us will leave Union, too, albeit only tem- porarily r we hope). So in this spirit of Homecoming, then let's keep Union a beautiful place to keep coming back to. Sincerely, The Student Environmental Alliance 2nd Annual Full Student PHONATHON Weds Nov. 7 & Thurs. Nov. 8 5:30-9:30 pm Carnegie Banquet Room Dinner 5:30 Calling Begins 6:30 Sign up sheets posted in residence ha lis RSVP Annual Fund Office By Nov. 5 with your team- x6174 PRIZES, FUN, FOOD 4 to a team - HURRY! 1st come, 1st serve basis arnltfllrbirnst.s FounJ,d al ( imon Col/~~ /8.~.~ ------------- --------- Aesthetic Improvements? The summer of '84 saw many changes on Union's campus, some good and some bad. Upon returning tn school this fall, students were confronted with till' following: A new courtyard in front of West College, u road still under construction cutting behind Physica: Plant, freshly painted buildings, black signs labeling various dormitories and academic buildings along with the loss of the Greek letters on the Fox and Davidson fraternity facades, and amongst many other alterations, a series of black posts drilled into various walkways and roads on campus. Although many of the changes may be perceived as positive or negative, depending upon one's point of view, the latter alteration noted presents questions ab01.1t necessity vs. aesthetics. Physical Plant spent a portion of this past summer drilling holes into the ground and filling said holes with black posts. Apparently the purpose of these posts placed at the ends of various campus thoroughfares is to relegate the automobile traffic to only certain parts of the campus. Physical Plant has committed a noble gesture in trying to keep Union as much of a walking campus as possible but it has sacrificed not only convenience, but aesthetics as well in the process. Granted, there is little necessity for campus driving beyond that of security and delivery, but the addition of these posts to keep traffic off certain areas is one way in which Physical Plant has gained one aesthetically pleasing attribute while losing another. Union may have less campus traffic now, thus contributing to a more desirable environment, but the College has acquired a series of ugly black posts in the process. Could Physical Plant have thought of a more attractive way of limiting access to these routes? Another consideration is moving in and out of the dormitories. Although it is less than desirable to have cars drive up on the lawn to the back of Fox and Davidson for instance, expecting students to walk back and forth from the parking lots with heavy boxes twice a year is not a reasonable request. Possibly Physical Plant did not consider this inconvenience or perhaps it is insensitive to this problem. Maybe Physical Plant, or whoever gave the actual order for Physical Plant to install those posts, should consider its actions in this matter or at least find a more aesthetically pleasing mode of implementing a limited access policy to these pathways. It seems that the money used to buy and implant these poles could have been used in a more productive manner. So Watt? Watts this all about? Well, it seems that the Student Forum has begun to see the light. Too much light as a matter of fact! It seems that heating and utility costs at Union have always been quite steep, though they have been written into the college budget each year with little question. An ingenious campaign has been started to turn down the lights a bit and turn down the heat as well. Have no fear, the lights will be strategically chosen so as not to interfere with living comfort or safety. Students have been complaining about the heat each year: classes are too hot, dorm rooms often feel like saunas, and the library in many places is more conducive to a warm nap than for staying awake studying. For those students who do need the heat and feel they are not getting enough, now the College will provide space heaters for those cold wintry days. Students are encouraged to help out. The money saved through energy conservation can help lower tuition costs, provide greater funds for financial aid, or ease any of a number of financial problems. Over one million dollars was spent last year on energy costs alone. The college saved an estimated three hundred thousand dollars through insulation and other conservation measures undertaken this past summer. Now it is our turn to help out. Turn out lights not needed in the dorms. Alert the physical plant to any cases of energy waste on campus. A little less light now can mean a brighter Union future. Save a watt.

Page 10 CONOORDIENSIS, October 11, 1984 TH.EARTS 11 Country\: A Review Series Opens • . . By DAPHNE CHIGAS and GAYLE ROSENFELD Fighting to keep their farm from going bankrupt, Gil and Jewell Ivy take on the Farmers' Home Administration (FHA) in this gripping film called · ''Country\. The Ivys took ad· vantage of loans from the FHA to improve their Iowa farm. But now the FHA wants its maney back. With farm prices down and costs 1:1p, the Ivys can hardly make ends meet, much less pay back this substantial lean. \Country\ is the story of this family's fight to keep itself 1:1nited and to prevent the loss of its farm that has been in its family for three generations. J·ewell Ivy, portrayed by Jessica Lange, demonstrates the inner strength that binds this family together. Sam Shepard, who plays Gil Ivy, Flute Concert Wins Praise By MICKEY BRADLEY Staff Union College's Traditions of Improvisation series got off to a strong start last Friday with A Concert of South Indian Flute Music,. the first of the six con- cert series. The relatively large crowd, which fairly filled Old Chapel, was treated to two hours of extremely well-crafted music that demonstrated as much about Eastern-cultured music as it did im- pro:v:dsationalism as an art form The ensemble consisted of three performers. JoSllpha Viswanathan plucked the tambura-a kind of electric sitar which is used as a backdrop for the main music (the same four notes were played in succession throughout the performance). David Nelson played the mr- dangam, which is a South Indian drum similar to the bongo but played on both ends. T. Viswanathan played his wooden flute as though he were born with it at his lips; indeed he is as adept at using the in- strument to communicate his feelings as most people are with words. (T. Ranganathan, originally scheduled to per- form, recently underwent surgery and is unfit to travel.) The program was structured around five pieces, each ending with a svara kalpana, a rythmic improvisation. Several of the songs also began with a raga alapana (a non-metrical im- provisation played without the the mdrangam). T. Viswanathan told me after the show that the use of the mr- dangam is one of the major differences between the music of South India and that of other :', 'Jarts of India. In other forms, •he mrdangam is used to keep the beat for the players, while in South India it is an ac- companying instrwnent, just as important as the flute. Both types of music use similar in- struments, thotigh, and almost aH Indian music revolves around religious themes and. beliefs. The concert had many highlights. For two of the nmnbers, T. Viswanathan was joined on stage by his student, Jeff Presslaff (a jazz pianist and Professor of Music at Bard Callege) and their playful back- and-forth improvisation on \Enta Nercina\ was extremely creative and imaginative. Presslaff has certainly learned well in his two years of study with T. Viswanathan, though Viswanathan's unrestrained and seemingly limitless flute runs made it clear who was the mentor and who was the student Another high point in the performance was the final piece, a religious chant in which Viswanathan sang the words in improvised tones, using his voice in the exact same manner as his flute, with continuous range and fluctuation in the upper ranges. But clearly the showpiece of the evening was \Sundari\, a long number which began with T. Viswamithan uncannily improvising a brilliant theme on his flute, evoking a variety of moods that reflected his un- bridled free spirit, and the atmosphere generated by both the musicians and the audience. This is the essence of im- provisationalism: to capture instantaneously the raw (and often spiritual) energy of the moment. The spontaneity was disarmingly fresh, and to try to inhibit such emotion to a printed page for later reproduction could never work so suc- cessfully. The same piece then turned into a showcase for both players, until Nelson began his solo that ended the tune. Nelson ~ has been a student of T. Ranganathan for twelve years, and he shows it. He exhibited amazing dexterity of both melody and emotion. (and manual ability) as he built up the rythmic intensity with a simplicity that belies the expert skill that that instrument requires. The tune was a perfect embodiment of the ideals that form the foundation of South Indian music, and im- provisation itself, of any form. The ensemble played a sch~duled five pieces and politely encored with a brief, uptempo, celebratory piece that closed the show on an optiniistic note. Professor Hilary Tann, who almost single-handedly brought the show together, was pleased with the evening and wishes to thank all those who attended or helped in its execution. She is especially grateful to the Rathskellar for turning off their jukebox during the performance. The evening's only disap- pointment was that the show, which was originally set to inaugurate the new Concert Hall in the Arts Building, had to be held in Old Chapel while construction is being finished. The next concert in the series (jazz improvisation on November2) will also be held in Old Chapel, but the new hall should be ready in time for the third concert in January. But that was not a major concern· of those in attendance last Friday (a combination of community residents, students, and faculty--including President Morris). They were too busy enjoying the wildly inventive music of South India, expertly crafted by three highly talented musicians. TRADITIONS OF IMPROVISATION All concerts at 7:30, Arts Department Recital Hall, Union College, Schenectady, NY Friday, October 5, 1984 Classical Music of South India T. Viswanathan, Flute; T. Ranganathan, Mrdangam Friday, Novembn 2, 1984 Quadrangle Jazz Ensemble Tom Ross, Bob Kolb, Jeff Fuller, Ignacio Berroa Friday,. January 25, 1985 Glass Harmonica, Voice, Piano Julie Kabat, Marilyn Crispell Friday, February 22, 1985 Introduction to the Music of West Africa with Master Drummer Abraham Kobina Adzinyah Friday, April 19, 1985 With Piano and Drums Jeff Presslaff, David Nelson Friday,. May 17, 1985 Music with Microprocessor Ron Kuivila Jewell's husband, when faced with the prospect of losing his farm, also loses his selif-respect. Nominated for Academy Awards Both Shepard and Lange starred in the motion picture \Frances\ last year and were both nominated for Academy Awards (Lange for \Tootsie\ and \Frances\, Shepard for ''The Right Stuff''), Lange winning the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in \Tootsie\. \Country\ could hardly miss with such talented actors as Shepard and Lange. However, it does come a bit short of its mark. Lange is not quite believable as the matriarch of a struggling midwestern farming family; there are ne callouses on her hands. Also, Lange's transition from a silent, dutiful wife to a strong willed muckraker who rises against the establishment (FHA) is far from convincing. She spends most of the film watching as her way of life is drastically altered, but does not come out of her shell until her husband has turned to the bottle and left their home. Shepard's character also has a similar problem; he goes from being a loving and com- petent husband and father to a desp\mdent alcoholic. The problem here is in the story line. Neither Shepard or Lange is given time, after a long in- troduction of the characters and their situation, to mature. There is no crescendo, no build up to the film's climax. Also, not only was there no logical emotional progression, but there was ·even less of an ending. It is as if the film's director, Richard Pearce, realized that \Country\ would have been too long a picture if he were to continue. ''Country\ was filmed on lacation in Waterloo, Iowa under rather inclimate con- ditions, as seen in the picture. Many of the scenes occur out of doors which contributes to the· film's lack of believability at times. The Ivy's farm house, connected to a seemingly en- dless line of telephone poles, demonstrates that feeling of loneliness inherent in much of the midwest. The sky really does seem to go on forever above the acres and acres of corn and Wheat fields. Amidst ' this American heartland is found a family trying to hold on to its heritage. Although the story has its problems as does some of Lange's performance, there is a chemistry between Lange and Shepard. The audience feels that these two characters really care about each other.lf only to see this relationship, \Country\ is definitely worth a look. \Country\ is a Far West Productions and Pangaea Corporation Production released by Tou£hstone Films. It will open October 19 at the Cine 1-8 at the Northway Mall. Ro~k-pop superstar~ Daryl H~ll and John Oates will be per- formmg at .the Olymprc Theater rn Lake Placid, NY, on Sunday, October 28 at a p.m. The concert will be the second stop on an MTV Na!ional :our. Tickets are available at the Olympic Center Box Offrce, Trcketron, and all regular Olympic Center outlets. Reserved seat admission is $14.50. The Social Committee Presents: HAIR Outside in front of the Nott Thursday, October 11th, a p.m. Followed by the group THE USHERS Join us in the Pub for drink specials and Free Munchies - c l J t; n ti il 1 s F 1 r e F p a rr a: v.

e. 's if a ~. e ' OONOORDIENSIS, October 11. 1984 Page 11 IJP e m ; jtl :- :: = :- :\ \'- .; ': ~~= ; ; THE ARTS e e::: es:-:&f55;t: +9t \ti P tt:e;! : :., .., T, - Gift Received By JANICE C. THOMPSON Staff Dr. Hans M. Rozendaal, a researclo! associate in the biological sciences at Union, has donated thirty-nine books by William Blake to Schaffer Library. The Blake collection is valuable and will be a welcome addition to the library. William Blake was both a poet and an artist. He often con- m~cted these professions by illustrating his own works. He engraved the poem ang the illustration on copper, used the copper print on paper, and then hand-colored the design. Sir Jeffrey Keynes, an editor for the Trianon Press borrowed a number of Blake originals from individual collectors ap.d published reproductions of these originals. The results are finely detailed and they resemble the originals very closely. The books that Dr. Rozendaal has donated to the l·ibrary include many of these publications. Ann Seeman, acting director of Schaffer Library, is grateful for Dr. Rozendaai'·s gift. She stated that she realizes that most of Union's money goes toward curriculum so that donations such as Dr. Rozendaal's are extremely welcome. Dr. Rozendaal has been a research associate in the biologic~! sciences at Union since 1965. He received an honorary degree from Union in 1978. His donation of the Blake collection will be on display in the library's main lobby for the remainder of the term. ,I The Schenectady Symphony Orchestra 19 84-8 5 Season Unique Dance Troupe To Peiform ... I st Concert-Fri., Sept. 28, 1984 Overture \The Magic Flute\ - Concerto for V !olin, Op. 4' -- Symphony No. 7- Mozart Sihelius Beethoven Pilobolus Dance Theatre 2nd Conuert-Sat., Oct. 2 7, 1984 'work for Chorus & Orchestra George Moross-Cond. Symphony No. 9- 0ctavo Singers . SUN'f A University Chorale 3rdConcert-Sat., Feb. 16, 1985 Prelude to Afternoon of a Faun- Concerto for Violin. Op 64- Linda Chang-Soloist Svmphony No. S- 4tb Concert-Aprll13, 1985 Overture \Louisa Miller\- Piano Concerto No. S (Emperor)- juana Zayas-Soloist Symphony No. 2- Beethoven Debussv Mendelssohn Shostakovitch Verdi Beethoven Kurt Weill All Performances are at Proctor's Theatre, 8 P.M. For information write: Schen,ectady Symphony Orchestra, 108 Union St., Sc.h'dy., NY 1230S Procter's will present PILOBOLUS DANCE THEATRE on Friday, October 12 at 8 p.m. Known for their originality in combining dance with acrobatics, beauty with absurdity, Pilobolus specializes brilliantly in physical and psychic ambiguity. Founded in 1971 by Moses Pendleton and Jonathan Wolken who met in a dance class at Dartmouth College, the dance troupe is· best known for their experiments with joined movement, linking bodies in unconventional ways creating bizarre con figurations. Choreographed collectively, their unique works merge acrobatics with artistry. The group takes its name from a genus of phototropic fungi. For thier opening dance selection, \Molly's Not Dead,\ one of the original composers, Walt Michael, will accompany the piece with his newly formed trio, Walt Michael & Company. Based on an Appalactiian tune (\Molly's not dead, she's only sleepin', patiently waitin' for Jesus to come\) it follows a small town community through its human paces--courtship, mating, combat, death and ressurrection. In addition to \Molly's Not Dead,\ their program at Proctor'& will include \Bon- sai,\ \Day Two,\ and a duet and solo to be announced. Accompanied by the Japanese flute on a tape score by Hisao Tanabe and Oeamu Kitajima, \Bonsai\ mirrors the slow, sensual rhythms in the exquisitely controlled, smooth flexings of the dancers. Like a movie set in slow motion, they mimic the flight of a bird and the unfolding of a flower. The Union Arts Montage· \Day Two\ is a typical -demonstration of the Pilobolus style with its sweeping joyous movement, explosive energy and irrespressible humor. The dancers, clad . only in flesh- colored dance belts, fold, balance and swing in gym- nastic-like configurations. The men's sculptured muscles and the women's tilting, carved-out torsos shine in warm ochre light as figures in a prehistoric cave painting coming to life. ULYSSES AT SCHAFFER When first published, James Joyce's Ulysses was considered to be an obscene and por- nographic novel. However, over the years, it has · become an important book in Modern Literature and is now con- sidered a classic. Through money funded by the Friends of the Union College Library, Schaffer Library recently purchased a first edition of Ulysses. \The Friends\ are alumni and other people who are interested in acquiring books that the library might not otherwise be able to afford. Members pay dues at various levels throughout the year which enable the library to make purchases such as Ulysses. Currently, the grouv is searching for an original copy of T.S. Eliot's The Wasteland. Anne Seeman, acting director of the library, says the library \would like to acquire some early feminist books also.\ Ulysses was purchased in its original printed blue wrapper from Glenn Horowitz, a book dealer in New York. Ulysses is now in Special Collections and a custom designed box is being madeto protect it. It will be put on display later this year but because of its value, the book will most likely be displayed only during the day. MtlNHf\ THE COURT GESTURES I know all of you have seen signs saying \Court Gestures\ and have heard everyone talking about us, but just in case you were on vacation, or bogged down in the Orgo books, I am here to explain. We Court Gestures are just normal (?) everyday, somewhat sane individuals who perform in the Cabaret Room at Carnegie. Now all of you know that we do improvisational comedy, but this year we are doing much, much more. This is where you, the student population, come in. Our numbers are somewhat - ~~~IH~~~~ 605 Union Street JOIN US FOR SUNDAY BRUNCH 11 A.M. - 3 P. M. OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK LUNCH-DINNER-FINGER FOODS Serving 11 :30 am~·l :00 am depleted and we are looking for a few good men, women, or what-evers. Come and try your hand at comedy, or sing, dance, or recite poetry on your head for us. We need your support, and what do you have to lose besides your dignity? Tryouts are a 8 o'clock Sunday Oct. 15 in the Cabaret Room. Hope to see you there. P .S. It also looks good on a resume ... (Knew that would get you!) If you cannot attend call Jon at 372-0368 or drop a line at Box 2192. Tickets are priced at $14, $12 and $8.50. Excellent seats are still available and can be purchased at Proctor's Box Offi<!e, CBO outlets, all Carl Co. branches, Drome Sound, Belvedere Travel in Johnstown and Canajoharie, and the Pala<!e Theatre box office, Albany. Comedian-Writer-Producer-Director David Brenner will be appearing at the Latham Coliseum Theatre on October 13 at 8 p.m. Tickets are sfill available through Ticketron ar:ld the Coliseum Box Office. Join the versatile Brenner for an entertaining evening of fun and lau hter. ·,

Page 12 OONOORDIENSIS. October 11. 1984 INTERNSHIPS (Information is available in the Career Development Center) WMHT TY and FM: Interns are needed in marketing, public relations, promotion and to help with the WMHT Auction. Call the WMHT Volunteer Office r 356-1700) for information. TeenAge Magazine: Paid, full-time editorial internships available for Winter term. Devereux Foundation: Full- time 12 month preprofessional mental health traineeships at the Devereux Foundation treatment centers which serve mentally and emotionally handicapped children and young adults. Northwestern Mutual Life Internship: For Juniors and Seniors seeking good paying part-time jobs with potential for a full-time career after graduation. Training sessions starting immediately. Infor- mation available at CDC or call Paul Steffan at 785-4141. New York Urban League: 1985 summer positions in business, finance, accounting, computer science, engineering, retailing, communications and human resources. Home Insurance Company: Full-time paid intern training program for recent graduates Due to circumstances beyond our control the Arts & Dance Club performance Homecoming Weelcend has been cancelled. We apologize and hope to reschedule the performance . later this year~~ with degree in finance, ac- counting, economics or maNagement. Minimwn GPA 3.0. New York State Senate Internships: Open to juniors or seniors of any major who have a strong interest in state government and the legislative process. Full-time January- May. Application deadline: October 12. New York State Assembly Intern Program: 1) Session Intern Program is open to juniors or seniors of any major' who have a strong interest ill state government and the legislative process. 30 hrs. 8 wk., January-May, academic credit given. Application deadline: October 26. 2) Graduate Scholars Program is open to students who are matriculated in or who have completed a graduate degree. Deadline: November 1. Arts Appren.ticeships: New York City Department of Cultural Affairs offers in- ternships with individual artists and with service organizations. Available during summer or school year. Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Bowl for Breath Coordinator: Intern will assist Program ACROSS junction 1 Fish eggs 4 Greek 4 Paid notice marketplacE Director in overseeing the total organization and im- plementation of the 1984 fllll- draising program. Interns will work with volunteers and committees, recruit par- ticipants, prepare .- news releases and newsletter mailings, assist in public education programs. October and November. Includes mileage reimbursement and meal allowance. Training and Development Intern: Infosearch, an Albany based firm, is seeking a student intern to develop training materials for their staff in several departments. Writing skills are essential, creativity desirable. Suitable for students interested in business or per- sonnel. Central Intelligence Agency: Summer studies program for graduate students in numerous science, social science and technical disciplines. Deadline: October 15. White House Fellowship: · One-year program in which Fellows serve as special assistants to Cabin·et Secretaries or senior members of the White House staff. Fellows also participate in extensive education program. 6 Take unlaw- 5 Railroad ~1---+-+=- fully station 11 Current 6 Scoffed breakdown 7 Symbol for 13 Wanted tellurium 15 Pronoun 8 Lampreys 16 Thicket 9 Farewell! 18 Dwell 10 Unit of 19 Greek letter Bulgarian 21 Repetition currency 22 Compass 12 Alternating point current: 23 Second-rate abbr. horses 14 Prefix: down 26 Employ 17 Stalk L.::...J~.=.L::... 29 Tardy 20 Likely 31 Encounter 24 Conduct 33 Note of scale 25 Diocese 34 Hebrew 27 Slide month 28 Comfort 35 Three-toed 29 Tibetan sloths priest 38 River in 30 Son of Adam Scotland 32 Care for · 39 Exists 36 Electrified 40 Pronoun particle 41 Lavish fond- ness on 43 Back of neck 45 Everyone 47 Sea nymphs 50 Printer's measure 52 Need 53 Pronoun 56 Verso, e.g. 58 Showy flower 60 Morning 61 Click beetle 63 Come on the scene 65 Mixture 66 Rupees: abbr. 67 Nod DOWN 1 Debauchee 2 Expel 37 Airplane attendant 42 Periods of time 44 Hard-wood tree 46 Lawful 48 Go in 49 Newspaper paragraphs 51 Apportion 54 Character in \Othello\ 55 Merganser 56 Hebrew letter 57 Priest's vestment 59 Note of scale 62 Printer's measure 64 Symbol for rubidium 3 Latin con- Answers in Next Week's Issue There are still some openings in the winter 1985 Term in Israel program. This program is o.pen to anyone at the College who has the equivalent of Hebrew 10 as a prerequisite, and would like to spend the winter term working and studying at a kibbutz. Students learn about this unique kind of living experience, and study Hebrew language. There is ample time for travel around the country on weekends. Please contact Joan Freeman in the Terms Abroad Office if you are interested in this program. Highly competitive. Applications availaole from President's Commission White House Fellowships, 712 Jackson Place, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20503. Deadline: December 1. CLUB NEWS_ HUNGER CONCERNS-All those interested in planning the 11th Annual Oxfam Fast for a World Harvest that will take place on November 15 please meet in Conference Room A of Carnegie, Thursday, October 11, at 3:30 p.m. Newman Mass-As part of Homecoming ,there will .be a 10 a.m. Mass on campus in Memorial Chapel Sunday, October 14. Celebrant, Fr. John Moyna of St. John the Evangelist and homilist, Sister Joan Vlaun, Catholic Chaplain. Newman Social & Ziti Din· ner-Sunday, October 14 for all Catholic facu1ty, staff, their families and Union students. Admiss1on free. Call the Religious Programs Office, ext. 6087, if you plan to attend. Social at 3 p.m. and dinner at 4 p.m. Newman Folk Group- Sunday, October 14, 6:30 p.m. meets with Friar Paul in St. John's Church to prepare .for 7:30 Mass. New members welcome at any time. Newman Club Meeting & Social-Monday, October 15, 8 p.m., 4th floer Lounge, Car- negie. Newman Bible Study- Wednesday, October 17 at 1 p.m. with Sr. Joan in 4th Floor Lounge, Carnegie. Newman Theatre Party- Anyone interested in. attending Duke Ellington's Sophisticated Ladies, Frid1;1y, October 19, at Proctor's Theatre meet in front of Carnegie. at 7:15 p.m. H~lf­ price tickets are available with a student lD half-hour before the performance. Regular orices are $22.00, $18.50, $13.00. TERMS ABROAD The Terms Abroad office would like to announce that the site of the spring, 1985 program in Germany has been changed from Schwaebisch-Hall to Freiburg. All students at the College who are at least in the sophomore year, and who plan to have completed German 11 as a minimum prerequisite are invited to apply for the UNION LOVES GOSSIP!!! You can't even turn a corner without running into some of it. Well, now's your chance to tell us ALL about the \interesting\ news you've heard (or seen)! Tell us about your roommate's strange habits; an achievement you and your friends have made; something you overheard (while \trapped\ in that nearby closet! );some perfectly embarrassing moments. Although a II names must be withheld, descriptive references are welcome! So, c'mon and tell us and we'll put it in our column: \Can We Talk?\ beginning in next week's issue of the Concordiensis. Submit all information in a sealed envelope to Box 2577, c-o CN Editors. Deadline for Thursday issues is every Tuesday at 5 p.m. Come Cheer on the f UNION FOOTBALL TEAM at the first 11 Pep Rally and Lighting of the Nott\ in front of the Nott on Friday, Oct. 12 at 10:30 p.m. ~~~~-- ). .. } J 1 I g t 7 ~ ~ r • ( t ( f ~ c ( v ( ( E 1 tl F

for ers & 8 y- 1 oor ted at D the to the lan 11 OONCORDIENSJS, October 11, 1984 ------------------------------------~~------~ INTERNSHIPS program. There will also be a four day excursion to East Germany included in the cost of the program. The term will cost about the same as a term spent on campus. 'The only additional expense is the round trip air fate between the United States and German·y. Professors Warde and _Kellenter will be the facu1ty members in residence. Interested students should contact the Terms Abroad of- fice for applications and further information. The Film Committee Presents: ''Moscow on the Hudson\ on Oct 12-0ct. 14, at 7, 9, and 11 p.m.; \The Return of the Pink Panther\ on Oct. 17, at 7:30, 10 p.m. Admission is $1.00. Tickets are sold at Student Box Office. Movies are held in SS016. HELP WANTED The Cerebral Palsy Center for the DisalllE~d is- ill need of volunteers for its Feeding Program to assist school ag'e and adult clients during lun- chtime, from 11:30-1:30 Monday through Friday. Contact the Center at 489-3336, extension 533 for information. Electronic Sales-Part-time position selling audio, video and car stereo at discount prices. Over 50 name brands with full warranty and service facilities. Contact: Mr. PhilipsHi-Fi Sales Col, 1001. Sussex Blvd., Broomall, PA 19008. 215-544- 1465. Looking to earn extra cash this semester? Become the Pines Hotel college travel representative. Enthusiasm to travel a must. Excellent business-marketing majors. Call Bruce at 1-800-431-3124 or 1- 914-434-6000 (N.Y. State only). Student interested in babysitting-·regular basis Thursday night, 7-10· for ane 3 yr. old. Location-Upper Union area. Please contact 374-9754 after 6 p.m. or weekends. Student interested in housecleaning, several hours 1 or 2 ,days a week. Ten minutes from campus. Own tran- sportation. Possible cooking. Please contact 372~3095. Need student to do proofreading and some clerical. 10-20' hours a week-flexible. $4.00 per hr. Location off Central Ave. Need own tran- sportatian. Please contact Metroland Magazine at 459- 5371. PART-TIME position available for college student to represent travel company on campus. Earn commission, free travel and work experience. Contact: Beachcomber Tours, Inc., 1325 Millersport Hgwy., Williamsville, N.Y. 14221. 716- 632-3723. STUDENTS EARN extra money. Call FANTASIES at 456- 6007. Dishwashers needed for the Dutch Hollow Pub. Contact Merserve Platt at 377-9229. CLASSIHEDS The MEM Company has announced the national campus search for a man to represent its English Leather Musk men's to!J.etr.ies in 1985. The . lucky wmners get cash and prizes. To enter send one photograph (black and white or color) to Concordiensis, Box 2577. The photos must have been taken within the last six months and must be no larger than 8\ x 10\ and no smaller than 3\ x 5\. Deadline is Oct. 22. Typing: term papers,. theses, etc. done by executive secretary. $1 ,per page. Call Judy at 399-3383. ' Expert typing, $1 per page. Call Marge at 377-8345. . Need a typist? 'Contact Kathy Shecky, 399-4656 in the late afternoon. HOMECOMING WEEKEND UNION COLLEGE SPEAKERS FORUM presents JOHN B. ANDERSON . on \Third Party Polltlcs\ *lllinois·Congroumon·from 1960 • 1980 *'nd-dent candidote lor Presidlnt, 1980 tltc1ion *Foundor and Cholrmon. Notlonol Unity Porty F=riday, October 12, 1984 B:OO p.m. MEMORIAL CHAPEL TICKETS: CARNEGIE HALL BOX OFFICE· $2.00 Studona ond F1011lty $4.00 ,.,.. d>t Public \ Interior painting; lew rates. For .free estimate can 346-2495 after 6. Math tutor available. CaH Dave at 346-2495. Trivial Pursuit players needed to take part in the day- long Trivial Pursuit Challenge to raise money far the local Easter Seals Chapter. The event is scheduled for Nov. 18 and is part of a nationwide event occurring in 80 cities throughout the country. Teams of 4 members are needed. The registration fee is $1~0 per team, which entitles each member to exclusive Trivial Pursuit first-edition books. Prizes awarded for the most money raised. The event will be held Nov.18 at the Ramada Inn, Western Ave., Albany, begin- ning at 10 a.m. Far further information, call Ginny Olsen at Easter Seals at (518) 434-4103. The New York State Lum- berjack Championshtp com- petition starts this year's Family Fun-addicts series rolling at the New York State Museum on Saturday, October 13 from 1-5 p.m. Admission to the events is free. Other programs in the Family Fun~addicts series in October include \Fire! Fire at the Museum!\ on October 20 with lectures, demonstrations, films, a dance performance by EBA and more on fire fighting and fire safety; and \Witch is Magic\ on October 27 with magic, ghost stories and scarey films for Halloween. For more information on the Family Fun-addicts series call 518-474-5877 or 518-474-5842. On Friday, October 12, at 3 p.m., an · , informative playwriting workshop will be held at the Skidmore Theater Lodge studio. It will be led by Nina Shengold, winner of last y,ear's ABC playwrights award, and Laura Harrington, member of New Dramatists in New York and author of CHEAT. For futher information concerning the Playwriting Workshop please call584-5000 x 2347. Architects and interior designers are invited to submit entries for \The Creative Ceiling Awards,\ two design competiHons sponsored by Conwed Corporation. Entry kits can be obtained by calling Conwed tol:l free at 1-800-328- 9497. A separate category for students has been incorporated into this contest, whiCh runs from October 11, i984 through February 15, 1985. For further information, contact Conwed' s Public Relations Department, P.O. Box 64237, S~. Pau, MN 55164, 612-221-1102. TYPING SERVICE: Theses, term papers, manuscripts, resumes, business typing, etc. Top quality work. Reasonable rates. 399-0165. PERSONALS Dan Stewart, I love you and Union College football. Good luck! March Gastineau was framed! DU's be nice to DG's! Foley, Holy Cross is doing great. 3 cheers for Paul Lewis & BU football! BU over Maine 27· 10. Love; a DG taking time off. See you at Homecoming. Jenski & Margski, Hi ya! How was the Jersey shore? Sherry, I bet you make one hell of a pre. Love to L.G., E.O., L.B. r.s., alex, Dave, Lo, Rich, and all the DG's! (Am having a Xmas party. Want to come?) To all: Am working with handicapped children-it's great! L.A.T. P.S. Elizabeth, write! Fresh- men girls. go thru rush! DRE-NA-NA-NA!!! Debbie, You're doing a great job as house manager! Love, the couple you never thought would make it as roommates. To the tune of Beethoven's Fifth Movement, disco version: Dre-na-na-na! To the old 3rd Floor Rich- mond-When's the Party?!? To Mo and Wittie- You're gorgeous and we love you! When do we get to try out your loft? Love, the Row Hania-lt's nice having you in our house. Page 13 Megan, Joyce, Jannette-A personal just for you guys. You don't think I do all this for' nothing do you? Dinner tonight on me guys! · -Marce Scott Wolf swallows! Let's play Global Ther- monuclear War, you FAG! You have incredibly LEAN LEGS! ! ' Love, your faggy roommate. Dear De spina: We hope you get well soon. We miss you very much! Love, your sisters Dear Amy, I am glad that yoL like my car but I'm not Louie. Signed A Price Chopper Shopper P.S. Who are you? Skyd, A lot of help you'll be in our next game--get better quickly! Love, 700 Smith Dear Mr. J-Ug and Thor are alive and well and seek revenge! Beware of small creatures that disappear into thin air ... -Your Neglected Admirer Rockin' Roh-I never know what to say in these things but I like sending them to you anyway. Happy birthday Rob! -Love, Marce 700South-Great party! Hope you have another one soon. A happy guest Sher-Ali I want is EVERYTHING!!! Don't you?- Brute Snuffles: The fun has yet to begin. -Snuff Snuffles: Words cannot ex- press ... Snuff Roger Rippel's idea of a good lubricant is transmission fluid! Mike York has a fantasy to be Richard Gere. Wes Harris is attracted to male Yuppies! To the Boss: By now the at- tack on Italy has been ac- complished ... You're a stud ... report for winner's choice. ... G.l .a ;:) ... ·(.!) 3:! > ro Cl ;:.. .a 0 +- 0 ..r::. a.

Page 14 EHec:tive June 1, 1984 The Security & Safety Phone No. was changed from 370-6178 to 370-6911 AN INTERNSHIP IN EUROPE COULD HELP YOUR CAREER PROSPECTS Semester, Quarter and Summer programs in LONDON, EDINBURGH, PARIS, ·MADRID & BONN If you have a positive attitude, nght GPA, good command of the language concerned you could intern in House of Commons, French National Assembly, Spanish Cortes, German Bundestag. Other place ava1lable m Law. Soc1al Sc1ence. Research Labs .. Bus1ness Museums. Town Plann1ng, The Arts and European Pol1t1cs 1985 Semester costs from $2.975, Quarter & Summer costs from $1,690. EPA FULL DETAilS FROM EPA, MARYNOUNT COLLEGE, TARRYTOWN, N.Y. 10591 Pllone(914) 631-3200 Campaign Committee Members Named Leadership for Union College's 15th Annual Business Campaign has been announced by College President John S. Morris. This year's chair will be Robert A. McCormick, president of Schenectady Trust Company. Vice chair is Jack Moran, director of affirmative action and special programs at The Golub Corporation. Returning members of the Executive Committee are: John A. Braidwood, trust representative, Key Trust company; Wallace M. Camp- bell, vice chairman, Northeast Savings; Kenneth A. Dagostino, secretary-treasurer, Dagostino Building Blocks; Gordon L. Decker, director of develop- ment, Union; Bernard J. Fay, assistant cashier, Norstar Bank of Upstate NY; Michael Johnson, assistant vice president, Northeast Savings; Kenneth C. Peterson, president, Schenectady Chemicals, Inc.; Lloyd J. Piccin, manager of occupational safety and en- vironmental control, General Electric; Patricia Rush, director of grants programs, Union; Anthony M. Salerno, president, Glenn Davis Co.; Paul A. Schwarz, vice president, Schenectady Trust Co.; and Harry E. Whittingham Jr. of Schenectady. New members are Joseph Giaquinto, vice president of Schenectady Federal Savings & Loan; Barbara Reynolds, vice president, The Schenectady Trust Co.; Kathy Selfridge of Scotia; and Richard A. Willig, president, Willig & Gallet Realty, Inc. Yearbook Layout Meeting Today, Thurs., Oct. 11 at 7:30 in the Yearbo.ok Office The- Layout staff needs your help! OONOORDIENSIS, October 11, 1984 UNION COUEGE Office of Computer Services is pleased to announce on-campus support for the DEC Rainbow 100 Microcomputer. Rainbow 1009 System LA50 Personal Printer 10MB Hard Disk $1995. 396. 1554. Additional costs include 6.5% sales tax, a $95 annual If you are interested in purchasing a Rainbow 100 you should act maintenance tee, and the cost of whatever special soon, since special prices are in effect for limited quantities software you choose to purchase. while· supplies last. Further information is available in the Rainbow Guide which may 'be obtained Jrom the Computer Services Consulting Office in Steinmetz Hall. . FOUR SEASONS CHINESE RESTAURANT. 'fl' ~ - ....: I:. . . o'b ~ o,,. Phone: 393m5440/393-5441 . #~ ~ Seas 011 s Specialize in Cantonese, Szec'huan & Hunan Hours: Sun- Thu.- 11:30-10:00 Fri.-Sat.11:30-11:00 Take Out of or Eat in i NoH rraco ·c: :::::> We're in Walking Distance We prepare our foods with o Just a Little Bit of Luck e • and a Whole Lot of experience

, e ' OONOORJJIENSIS, October 11, 1984 Page 15 Athlete of t:he Week By PAUL KURKER Sports Staff Congratulations to Dan Stewart of the football team and Pete Stegemann of the soccer team whose outstanding per- formanceS' this past week earned them Athlete of the Week honors. Union's senior quarterback Dan Stewart established an , NCAA record by throwing a touchdown pass in his 23rd Dan Stewart consecutive regular season game at Worcester Polytechnic Institute last Saturday. His eight yard touchdown pass to senior tight end Frank Kraft ended Stewart's quest ,for the record which was previously held by former Brigham Yol:lllg standout Steve Young. The two time AU~American from Nor- win, PA had his best day of the year by completing 16 of 32 passes for 225 yards and two touchdowns. Stewart was also on the receiving end of a Roger Harris pass for a gain of 17 yards. For his efforts, the ECAC named Stewart their \Offensive Player of the Week.'' Dan is an Industrial Economics major and a brother of the Delta Upsilon fraternity. Pete Stegemann, the Dut- chmen's outstanding senior striker, had an exceptional game against the Great Danes of Albany State last Wednesday. Stegemann led Union to a 4-3 victory by netting three goals on the day. He gave the Dutchmen leads of 1-0, 2-1, and scor.ed the game winner at 29:59 of the second half to make the score 4- 2. For his career, Stegemann shows 20 goals and six assi~ts for 46 points. He is jUst one pomt away from tying George Gativoltis for fourth place on the Union all-time scoring list. Stegemann is the field captain for the NCAA's eighth ranked Dutchmen and is currently their leading scorer. The Roches~er, NY native is a Mechamcal Engineering major and a brother of the Sigma Chi fraternity. 0 0 .c Q 0'0 U'l ' ~ ., . Pete Stegemann It's World Series Time! By STEVE PIRAINO Sports Staff \Now on to Detroit.\ Those were the words uttered by relief ace Rich Gossage after his San Diego Padres stunned the Chicago Cubs with a come from behind victory. The Padres took the National League Cham- pionship Series three games to two. It was the first time a National League champion had gone on to win the series after losing the first two games. The Padres now face the tenacious Detroit Tigers in the World Series this week. The Tigers made a clean sweep of the overmatched Kansas City Royals three games to zero and are heavily favored to win the World Series. They are better in both hitting and pitching and also have a much stronger bench than San Diego. But the Padres should not be counted out. Their un- forgettable series with the Cubs has left them with an emotional high. Championship Series MVP Steve Garvey, whose clutch home run in game four set up the deciding game, hopes to keep the Padres rolling. San Diego accomplished the im- possible by beating Cubs' ace Rick Sutcliffe who was 16-1 on the season. Meanwhile, the Tigers were resting after taking only three games with the Royals. Led by solid starting pitching (Jack Morris 19-11, Dan Petry 18-8 and Milt Wilcox 17-8), the Tigers baffled K. C. hitters. \The Big Three\ plan on duplicating their per- formances. Two key players in this series are the Tigers' Willie Her- nandez and . the Padres' Gossage. These relievers could decide the series. The edge goes to Hernandez. He has a chance to win both the Cy Young and MVP awards this year. He has been awesome after being called upon time after time in tough situations, while Gossage, though pieing up a save in game five, has been erratic of late. The Padres have tw(} glaring weaknesses. Their solid cen- terfielder, Kevin McReynolds, (20 HR, 75 RBI) will have to sit out the series with a fractured wrist. His replacement, Luis Salazar, is questionable because of an injury to his ankle. This leaves the Padres with a depleted bench. Also, because this is an odd year, the designated hitter will be used. This should benefit Detroit because: 1) They are used to playing with a DH and 2) San Diego will have to choose 'between two weak hitting pinch hitters as a DH due to the in- juries. Both teams will be looking for instant offense. The Tigers tandem of Lou Whitaker and Alan Trammell will provide excitement on the basepaths. For the Padres, Alan Wiggins could be a vital weapon if he can get on base. San Diego, with an injury to McReynolds, has a significant lack of home run power, though Garvey and Craig Nettles have been known to put the ball out of the park. Detroit, however, has a number of home run hitters led by Kirk Gibson, Lance Parrish and Chet Lemon. The Padres should be loose during the series. The pressure is off; they know they are the underdogs and are happy just to be playing in the series. The Tigers, on the other hand, are confident of victory. They have everything going for them and want to end their fantastic season on a happy note. All in all it should be an exciting series (as are most World Series). Watch it! SPORTS Scott Wykoff On Sports Four weeks into yet another fall campaign and all indicators point toward a banner season for Garnet athletes. Two weeks into the school year Union athletic teams had won or tied every contest played. This weekend promises to be the busiest of the fall for Union athletics with seven of the school's ten interscholastic teams playing on Saturday alone. Here are just a few notes off the cuff to give one some small talk' tidbits for the ' eventful Homecoming weekenn. In the wings: The football team's number two national ranking is the talk of campus but let's not forget about Union's nation a .ly ranked soccer team. At press time the Dutchm~'l hooters sat as the state's top rated squad and the nation's eighth ranked club. Coaches Magee and McNamara have taken a squad with a different pr•rsonality than last year's pl<n' ff team and put the gears in motion for yet another top season. This has all been done minus the senlices of captain Dave Philbrick who was put on the injured list during pre-season. Class Act: A lot was said in the media last week in relation to the Union-WPI football matchup. The tone of the op- position was set early in the week prior to the contest. The opposition seemed to revert to mud slinging while the Dut- chmen just sat back and got ready for what they knew would be a hard fought game. Little to anyone's amazement the post game accolades, or lack thereof, to come out of the two locker rooms revealed the same tone set the week prior to the game. The opposition's head coach when asked to comment on Union's football team remarked, \What's Union to me? All I'm saying is that we're a different operation. More important than keeping our kids out for two extra weeks to play one extra game is our kids having time for their studies.\ When a Union athlete was approached after the contest in the locker room he was quick to comment on the opposition, \They're as good as we all heard about, they're as tough as any team we've faced and that almost includes Augustana.\ AI Bagnoli deserves a great deal of recognition for the job he has done in developing a team of both good players and class individuals. Bagnoli has set a fine example during his short reign as Dutchman head coach both on and off the field. Fanfare: Even when the Dugchmen go on the road they get that feeling of being the home team. Why? How about the incredible contingent oi Union football fans that venture across all parts of the northeast to see their garnet play. It was this reporter's opinion .last Saturday at WPI that the Union backers outnumbered the Worcester Poly faithful. The faithful Dutchmen following is comprised of backers from the alumni to parents and students. Be it a pre-game tailgate get together around a garnet and grey van to a \turn out the lights\ display of the famous Dutchman flag; all those in- volv.ed make Union games much more than your everyday football game. Wedding bells: A \union\ of ex-Union athletes of sorts took place this past weekend. Recent graduates George Oberstadt and Kim Biggs tied the proverbial knot in a wedding that attracted all sorts of familiar names back to Schenectady. Basketball greats Joe Clinton and Joe Wood along with hockey greats Tod Fobare and Don Beall were among the many friends of the couple who attended the ceremony. George graduated two years ago and was a standout football and baseball player. Kim, who's mother is Union College's athletic department business manager, received her diploma last spring. @ill=•='-\=. Alumni Gym Mon.-Thurs. 8:30 a.m.-11 p.m. Fri. 8:30 a.m.\9 p.m. Sat. & Sun. 12 noon-9 p.m. Pool Mon .• Fri.ll a.m.-3 p.m. Mon., Th. & Sun 7-9 -p.m. Sat. & Sun. 1-4 p.m. Field House Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-9 p.m. Sun. 12 p.m.-9 p.m. ... Place Seventh at LeMoyne Inv. Sophomore halfback Bob Crandall breaks up the play in the Alumni game as fullback Guy Claveloux looks on. The Dutchmen are 4·0-1. X-Country Hosts Tri- Meet by ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff Taking a 1-0 record to Syracuse last Saturday, the Union cross country team turned in a fine performance at the LeMoyne Invitational placing seventh out of the 22 teams present. Winning the race run on the grassy LeMoyne course, was a strong St. Lawrence squad from Canton, New York. The Dutchmen scored a total of 210 points paced by a 19th place finish by junior Chris O'Donnell. Rounding out the scoring for the Dutchmen were junior Billy McRoberts (36th), sophomores Neil Ricks (40th), Bob Stenard (49th), and junior Tim Orcutt (66th). . Although the Union squad did not run as close as a team as the week before, Coach Ebbets is readying his squad for a key match-up this weekend at home against Colgate and RPI. In last weekend's meet Colgate finished just ahead of the Dutchmen in sixth and RP~ finished eighth, so this weekend's meet should prove exciting as Union tries to sweep both teams. • In last weekend's junior varsity race the Dutchmen finished fifth out of 11 teams with 135 points behind a strong second place finish by sophomore Mike Reed. Helping the Dutchmen cause were freshmen Jim LeBrou and Pat DiCerbo finishing 14th and 15th respectively. In the women's race, Union was unable to field a full team, but there were some individual performances highlighted by a 39th finish by freshman Michele Vuolo. Receiving awards for in- dividual performances were Chris O'Donnell and Bill McRoberts for varsity and Mike Reed for J.V.

Page 16 OONOORDIENSIS, October 11, 1984 Dutchmen Blast WPI By TED CANNON Sports Staff Last Saturday in Worcester, Union and WPI collided in \The Game\ in Div. III football this year. A suitable setting for quarterback Dan Stewart to rewrite the NCAA record books. By hitting tight end Frank Kraft for an eight-yard scoring pass, Stewart became the only player in NCAA history to throw at least one touchdown pass in 23 Union mentor AI Bagnoli will lead the Dutchmen this Saturday when they biittle RPI in New York State's oldest football rivalry. Also pictured are coach Fran Meagher and senior flanker Roger Harris. W. Soccer Splits By FRITZ and GERHARD Sports Staff consecutive games. Stewart's record pass and his per- formance throughout the game earned him ECAC Offensive Player of the Week honors. After hitting Kraft for the historic touct.ldown, Stewart led another drive, capped by a 39- yard dart to flanker Rich Kellaher to give the Dutclunen a 14-0 lead at the half. In the second half fine of· fensive line play by Chris Bowler, Tim Ramundo, Tim Devlin, Gerry Campanelli, and Steve Cirillo enabled Union to control the bi:lll and wear down the Engineers. While the offense controlled the ball, the Union defense did not budge. The vaunted WPI attack entered the game boasting ·such numbers as: a 33.3 points-game average, 378.7 yards~game, and a rushing attack that averaged 294 yards- game. However, to say that Union's defense outplayed the WPI offense would be inac• curate; to say they hammered them into submission would be closer to the point. On the day the defense would yield only 261 yards, only 143 of those on the ground. Key defensive players for Union were linebacker Pat Wright, defensive end .Mark Tavitian, strong safety Bill Nowak, safety Lenny Huttner, and defensive back Alex Rita. The Dutchmen are now 4 and -o, an·d are beginning to eye another berth i,n post-season play. Union's opponent this week for homecoming is traditional rival RPI. Dutchmen Sports.week Oct. 11-17 Thursday, 10-11 Field Hockey vs. Williams (A & B) · Women's Tennis vs. Williams J.V. Men's Soccer vs. RPI Volleyball vs. RPI Football vs. R PI Men's Soccer vs. R PI Friday, 10-12 Saturday 10-13 Women's Soccer vs. Middlebury Field Hockey vs .. RPI Men'sX-Country vs. RPI, Colgate Women's X-Country vs. Siena, R.PI Al:bany State Volleyball vs. Alumni Women's Tennis vs. ·RPI Monday 10-15 JV Foetball at RPI Tuesday, 10·16 Men's Soccer vs. Siena Field Hockey at Siena Women's Tennis at Siena Wedneuday 10-11 JV Men's Soccer at WiHiams Women's Seccer vs. Williams Union 20 Union 14 Union 4 Union 2 Siena 3 Williams 2 Union 2 Skidmore 7 Middlebury 2 Oneonta 5 Skidmore 2 GARNcET SCOREBOAR:o Sept. 31. Oct. 7 FOOTBALL (4-0) JV FOOTBALL (2-0) MEN'S SOCCER (4-0-1) WOMEN'S SOCCER {3-1) VOLLEYBALL {7-ll WOMEN'S TENNIS {2-3) FIELD HOC KEY {2-6)' MEN'S X-COUNTRY (l.Q) 3:30p.m. 3:30p.m. · 4p.m. ?p.m. 1:30p.m. lla.m. 4p.m. 9:30a.m. · 12p.m. lla.m. • 11 a.m. 9:30a.m. 3:30p.m. 3:30p.m. 4p.m .. 4p.m. · 4.p.m. 4p.m. · WPIO. Middlebury 0 Albany State 3 Hamilton 1 Union 2 Union 0 North Adams 0 Union 0 Union o Union 0 Union 0 Union placed seventh out of 22 teams at LeMoyne lnvy. WOMEN'S X-COUNTRY {1-0) Union Middlebury {by forfeit) Union did not have a full team at LeMoyne lnvy. During play this week, the Women's Varsity Soccer Team split their two games. Against Hamilton last Thursday the Dutchwomen had a grueling first half facing the winds on the open Hamilton field. Finding themselves down 1-0 at the half, the team came back with a very strong and impressive second period. Mary Soley scored early in the second half (12:06) to tie the game. Less than two minutes later, right wing Astrid Morsch scored the go-ahead and final goal on an unassisted blast into the upper lefthand corner to put the Lady booters ahead 2-1. Following the Hamilton victory, captain Rebecca Clemente felt that \the team's biggest asset was the fact that even though we were trailing at the half we kept our composure and pulled together with aggressive determination and good team cooperation. We've lost to Hamilton the past two years but this time we dominated and played one helluva game.\ Host Potsdam Saturday . • • Coming off the weekend the team traveled to Siena to face their nearby opponents for the second time this season. A tough Siena squad, fighting to avenge their earlier 3-0 defeat, succeeded as Union came up short 1-0. Thus the women's record stands at 2-2-1. They will play again on homecoming weekend at 4:00 vs Middlebury on Garis Field. Ruggers Chase Div. Title ByCPSIS Sports Staff The Union College Rugby Football Club continued its quest for the division title by accumulating two impressive wins over rivals Albany State and RPI this week. These Skidmore Downs Stickwomen By CATHY PUFFY Sports Staff Last Friday, the Dutchwomen field hockey team played a hard fought game against Skidmore. entirely on Union's offensive end. Union's offense, led by center Nancy Schulz, worked well together bringing the ball upfield, creating an unbeatable attack. Freshman Helen Golightly put Union on the scoreboard in the first half with a blinding shot past the goalie. In the second half, Union maintained their strong attack. Freshmen Karen Lavarnway and Susan Chang finessed the In the.first half, despite Union's valiant efforts, Skidmore managed to muster two unanswered goals. In the second half the fired-up Stick- women continually penetrated Skidmore's defense. Cheryl Washburn led the Union powerhouse attack, displaying her fine stickwork. Sweeper Fran Czajka played an out- standing defensive game, repeatedly clearing the ball from Union's end. Sophomore Wendy Milas initiated Union's attack with her consistent hits upfield. Freshman superstar goalie Jean Monaco played another outstanding game for the Dutchwomen. Monaco, the clearing machine, made numerous saves, tallying 30 in ::: all. Despite the loss, Union is I: optimistic for the remainder of ~ the season. .... ~ ball past Skidmore's goalie to bring the score to 3-0. Sophomore Jen Glick and F'reshman Michele Van Patten both held the defense together with their fine performances. The J.V. team with a 1-1 record will qe looking for thier next victories againstHartwick and Williams this week. The two teams will be playing Williams at 3:30 today on the turf. Come support the team Union's J.V. team trounced >- . . . . . . .. ··. . . . . ~~\:~~~~~ t~~zcl~~~::· :; i l . · .... ~ ·< ; , .< ·.· ;. . ;: ' , . : . from the openmg whistle, only 'li · · · .·· ·. · · ·· allowing Skidmore nine shots on Defensive standout Fran Czajka clears the ball from the Union goal. The game was played zone against Skidmore. victories hiked their record to 4- 0, and the ruggers are in an excellent position coming into this Saturday's game against visiting Potsdam to take the division championship with a win. Against Albany State, . the ruggers faced a team with good size and strength. For the first 15 minutes, the Union ruggers had their backs against the wall. They suddenly came alive, ignited by some hard hits, and dominated play during the last 25 minutes of the half. Union pushed the ball towards the Albany zone, where they were awarded a five meter serum. Serum captain Doug Baumgarten took the ball in for Union's first and only try of the game. With a missed kick, the score was 4-0. After the half, Union con- trolled play and a Union penalty kick pushed the score to 7-0. With 20 minutes left, Albany intercepted a Union pass and took it in to make the score 7-6. Union had control until the final minute, when Albany was presented with a penalty kick.' They missed by barely a foot, and Union held on to win 7-6. In the B-game, Union con- trolled play most of the game. Eighth man Jody Perkins scored out of a five meter serum to put Union up 4-0. Unable to convert the points after, Albany kicked off to Union only trailing by 'four. Taking advantage of an errant pass, Albany kicked the · ball into the try zone and dived on it for the score. A successful kick after made it 6-4 in favor of Albany. _Union second row Kurt Elmgren unfortunately separated his shoulder during the game, and the entire team wishes him well. Union cQntinued its winning ways the following Sunday against RPI. Because of the blazing sun and the extremely wide field, it was unusually tiring conditions to play under. That didnot deter lineman Rob Israel, who broke through RPI tacklers early in the game to streak 60 yards for Union's first try. A missed kick made the score 4-0. Union continued to enforce its will over a .hapless RPI squad. Dominant serum play and exceptional line tackling led to another garnet score when Dave Biel passed to Rob Israel on the wing, who once again plowed in for the try, making the score 3-0 at the half. Early in the second half, poor tackling by Union led to an RPI try. A missed kick made it 8-4. Union then took control of the play once again, driving for- cefully to the 22 meter line, where Andy Klurnph kicked the ball into the try zone. Racing two RPI defenders, he dove on the loose ball, extending Union's lead to 12-4. Following the ensuing kick, Union once again pushed the ball upfield, led by strong tackles and powerful running. Deep in RPI territory, hooker Gene Gass pulled the ball out of a maul and passed to Doug Baumgarten, who banged into the try zone to make the final score 18-4. Come and cheer the ruggers on as they face a strong Pot- sdam team for the division title this Saturday on Library Field. A victory against Potsdam would send the ruggers to Buffalo State and the New York State division two cham· pionship game. - c; - \' Ill 01 ..c: u Ql r::: ..c: c. Ill 0 >- ..c 0 .... 0 ~ ..c: c. A Cl ' J 19~ ch< Na Fr M{ Ho ph sp! Fo j An fee pe1 ar1 uni me he1 no1 tor An h<:r poi kir we sai tel, pr« ' nal th{ COl lor An po SOl un go1 di! pr« th< ult ra1 iss COl ter is stil ter clu '] ca1 exJ sel \T OUi

ages placed place to pus,'' he notes, replaced one And an and at- making many back Burton, of the Con- nts and new campus and udents' been and in ~d ~at 11 a A to onge, down 1884 to se to on p.m. the s. ~ph en p.m. Glee ~·. 8 end the in- by 376- ! ELCO NI! Ill Ill Ol :c \.) CIJ c ..c; a. 8 :::.. .Q 0 .... 0 -a

U) Ill -~ ..r:: u Ql c: ..r:: a. Ill 0 >- .0 0 - 0 ..r:: c. PageB CONOORDIENSIS, October 11, 1984 Homecoming---Oct.12, 13, & 14 The Garden at Union College Taken from Unjon Alumni Monthly \The brook that bounds,\ rambles through Jackson's Garden on a typical autumn day. The campus and old buildings at Union were laid out by a distinguished French landscape gardener, Jacques Ramee, who spent a few years in America at the beginning of the nineteenth century. His plan called for a garden in its present site, but nothing was done about it until Isaac W .. Jackson, an alumnus in the class of 1826 and a member of the faculty from 182~-1877, began its develop- ment in 1830. Dr. Jackson came from English Quaker parentage and a love of gardens was bred in him, a love that he passed on to his daughter, Mrs. Samuel T. Benedict, who until her death in 1925 continued her father's work in caring for this beauty spot of ours. Jackson'sGarden in early days attracted a surprised praise from European visitors who found few gardens in this Greetings ·to Alum nil :By PETER MOHR Co-Chairperson, Homecoming Committee Welcome alumni, parents, and friends of Union College! Since last spring, the Homecoming Committee has been working bard to develop this 62nd Homecoming Weekend. The thre·e days spanning October 12-14 will be filled with S.ports events, receptions and speeches. The theme. of this year's weekend is \Climb High, Climb Far, Your Aim the Sky, Your Goal the Star.\ This theme was taken from a plaque on the gate leading into Jackson's Garden. This year, we have also chosen to commemorate Captain Issac Jackson; the Union professor who created our garden about 150 years ago (no definite records were ever kept). At 11:30 on Saturday morning, Professor H. Gilbert Harlow will give a brief lecture on the garden followed by a tour. This year, all the sports events except crew, will feature Union against RPI. The weekend schedule includes football, rugby, field hockey, mens' and womens' cross country, and crew. All of the contests will be on Union's campus, except crew which will Freshman Scholarship Recipients For all those who missed the required small group financial aid seminars due to scheduling difficulties, there will be two large group sessions held: Tuesday, Oct. 16 4:30p.m.- 55016 Thurs., Nov. 1 4:30p.m •• 55016 Plan to attend either session at your convenience have its first meet this year on the Mohawk River on Sattirday. There will also be a volleyball game against alumni Saturday morning. Consult a schedule for details on thse events. Many of our teams are doing well this year. The undefeated football team faces RPI in the 82nd \Dutch Shoes\ Trophy game at 1:30 on Saturday. Prior to the game, there will be a float parade which will finish near the astroturf. At the time of this writing, both mens' soccer and rugby are undefeated. There will be many other events as well. On Friday evening at 8: 00 p.m., politician . John Anderson will speak on \Third Party Politics\ in Memorial Chapel. The 1983 movie, \Moscow on the Hud- son,\ will be shown at 7:00, 9:00 and 11:00 p.m. on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday in 88016. Academic reception will take place between 11:00 a.m. and 12:30 p.m. on Saturday. Bet- ween 4:00 and 5:00, the President's reception will be held ln Jackson's Garden. On Saturday e¥ening, there will be two Cabaret shows, one at 9:00 and one at 11:00. From 10:00 until1: 00, there will be a dance at Alumni Gym, featuring SEP, a campus band. While you are here, you might want to take a last look at Carnegie Hall and Alumni Gym. Next year at this time, renovations to both buildings should be well underway. The new College Center, which will replace Carnegie, will feature a bookstore, dining hall, restaurant, and rooms for various student activities. The new gym will contain a new pool as well as several squash and racquetball courts, among other facilities. The Arts Building is currently undergoing the second phase of its three phase restoration program as well. The new facilities should be completed by the beginning of November and will include a new student gallery, a performance rootn for dance, and increased space for photography. So, enjoy your weekend, and remember our theme: \Climb -High, Climb Far, Your Aim the Sky, Your Goal the Star! \ Welcome Home VISIT The Internationally Acclaimed Alternate Dining Experience on Campus T~E AMAZING (STUPENDOUS) RO_CK-N-ROLL PIZZA PUB Featuring: Damn Awesome Pizza Scrumptious Subs Famous Cookies Popcorn Etc ..• THIS WEEK'S SPECIAL Free Medium Soda with Sma II Pie Free Large Soda with Large Pie **FRIDAY ONLY** Large Pie & Pitcher of Soda $6.00 large Pie & Pitcher of Beer $6.50 · •• I ~ '• ·' country to admire; and even as late as the present century drew from the · famous landscape gardener, Samuel ~arsons, the following comment: \Since my visit with you to Union CoUege, enjoyable as it was, the one memory that persistently stays with me ·is the quaint old gar- den; it had so much of the character of a natural, secluded, but charming nook in the woods. It was human, too, and very American. No pretense; just a few old· fashioned shrubs with wild flowers at their feet, little stretcl:les of turf and an un- pretending brook running · through it out into lhe little valley lying like an am- phitheatre with grand old elms over-arching. How fine a combination. I confess I like it better tl:lan the old garden at New College, Oxford.\ The garden at the present time -is in the process of re- planting, made necessary by the great age of many of the shrubs, which Mrs. Benedict never had the heart to remove because of their association with her father. Hence it · is somewhat bare in comparison with past years, but it is in the hands of another lover of flowers, Mr. John C. Van Voast, an alumnus in the class of 1837. Among the most interesting · featttres . of the garden is the great variety of trees, some forty different kinds being found in the Woods surrounding the flower beds. A number of them are not native to this section or even to this country, as for example the fine specimen of the Japanese ginko. The most interesting tree of all is the ancient elm which stands in a glade by itself north of the brook. This tree was badly damaged by an ice storm in 1922, which carried :away one of its three great prongs. Mr. Merkle, the expert of the Bronx Botamiical Garden, tells us that it was a vigorou.s stripling when Columbus discovered America. It is called the Nott Elm in memory of our famous president, Eliphalet Nott (1804- 1866), but of course was not planted by him as is often stated. Its branches have shaded the seniors during their Class Day exercises at Union for at least three-quarters of a century. The garden is reached through the Kappa Alpha gateway, a memorial to the oldest college fr:aternity in America, of which Dr. Jackson was one of the founders. The garden itself is popularly known as Captain Jack's garden,. for our old professor was a great lover of military science in spite of his pacific ancestry, and for many years drilled a company of students. Union boys have sung the praises of the garden and its founder ever since fitzqugh Ludlow, an alwnnus of the class of 1856, wrote \his Terrace Song, which closes with this verse: When Captain Jack shall see his plants In bloom a few times more,. Some boys who sport· our altered pants Will knock at Union's door; And when the_ tutes have let them in, Old Terrace, thou shalt see· Them sitting ·where their Dads have sat And singing over thee. HAIR DESIGN Located Qn Corner of Broadway & Hamilton St. . 382·7956 • Student Dilcounts - ] 8:3 Un 6 .~ .. p.r 7J 7 I 7,! Ti1 Sp 8 M• Ca 9: 9: 9: 10 10 av 11 th in Bt 1: 1: s 1 1: 1:

this fine tree north was one . Mr. ~ronx that when not often have their a ched the y in The ,. for ~reat spite for pany us of \his with CONOORDlENSIS, Octaber 11~ 1984 PageC . • A . . . omecomtng cttv1t1es Friday, October 12 8:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Open Classes. Alumni, parents and friends are ·invited to join Union's students. 6:30p.m. Annual Fund Class Agents Awards Dinners. Ramada Inn. Cocktails 6:30 p.m.-7:30 .p.m. · 7 p.m. J. V. Men's Soccer vs. R.P .1. Astroturf Field. 7 p.m. Volleyball vs. R.P .• I. Memorial Fieldhouse. 7,, 9, & 11 p.m.. Movie \Moscow on the Hudson.\ Room 016, Social Sciences Building. Tickets may be purchased at the Student Activities Box Office Carnegie Hall Sponsored by the Student Film Committee. · ' · s. p.m •. An Evenin~ with John Anderson disc~sing \Third Party folitics.u Memor~al Chapel. Tickets may be purchased at the Student Activities Box Office, Carnegie Hall. Sponsored by the Student Speakers Forum. Brook in Captain Jack's Garden Saturday, October 13 8 a.m.-10 a.m. Class Agents Breakfast-Workshop. Hale House Dining Room. 9 a.m.-10 a.m. ReUnion '85 Class Committee Meeting. Lower Lounge, Hale House. 9 a.m.-10 a.m. Parents' Committee Meeting. Milano Lounge, Hale House. 9:30 a.m. Breakfast with the· Dutchman Football Team. West College Dining Room. Join head football coach, A1 Bagnoli, and the 1984 squad \Dutch Treat.\ 9:30 a.m. Field Hockey vs. R.P.I. Astroturf Field. 9:30 a.m. Women's Tennis vs. R.P .1. 10 a.m. AdPlissions Workshop, Conference Room A, Carnegie Hall. 10:30 a.m. \A Union of People.\ RQom 016, Social Sciences Building. Union's award-winningfilm portraying academic and social life on campus. 11 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Academic Presenta~ons•Receptions. Everyone is invited to join ~he following faculties to learn what's new in your major and other areas of mterest. I. Walter C. Baker, Faculty of the Humanities. Faculty Lounge (2nd Floor), Humanities Building. II. Faculty of the Social Sciences. \Election '84: A Social Science Perspective.\ Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall. III. Faculty of the Sciences Biological Sciences, Room 8301 (Genetics Lab)., Science and Engineer- ing Center. Chemistry, Room Nl16, Science and Engineering Center Mathematics, Room 200 1 Bailey Hall Physics, Room N114, Science and Engineering Center Psychology, Room 204, Psychology Building IV. Faculty. of Engineering and AppUed ScieDCi! CivU Engineering, Room 109, Butterfield Hall Electrical Engineering, Room 100, Steinmetz Hall Computer Science, Room 101, Steinmetz Hall B . . Mechanical Engjneering, Room N205 (Lab), Science and Engineering Widing. . 11 a.m. Baney CUp Ceremony. Carnegie Hall. 11 a.m·. Higbllghts. of the 1983 Dutchman Footb811 Season. Room 016, Social Sciences Building. · . . 11 a.m. Varstty Men's Soccer vi. R.P .1. Garis Field. 11 a.m. Volleyball vs. AIUIDDi. Memorial Fieldhouse. 11 a.m. Women's Cross-country vs. R.P.I., Siena, Albany State. Campus COurse. Saturday, October 13 cont. 11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. LUilch. Look for the Refreshment Tent on Alexander F,ield. Beverages, hotdogs and. hamburgers. Sponsored by Union's Lacrosse Team. 11:30 a.m. Music by Union's Dutch Pipers. Lamont House Porch. 11:45 a.m. Terrace ConneD Luncheon. 11:30 a.m. Lecture by p.rofessor H. Gilbert Harlow. \Jackson's GaJ,'den.\ Chet Arthur Statue, between Carnegie Hall and Arts Building. 11:45 a.m. Tour of Jackson's Garden with Professor Harlow. Meet at Chet Arthur Statue. · Noon. Men's Cross Country vs. R.P .I., Colgate. Campus COurse. Noon. Music by Uiuon Dutch Pipers. Carnegie Hall steps. 12:15 p.m. Annual Homecoming Parade. Forms in Seward-Nott parking lot, past Carnegie Hall, down Alexander Lane and out 1884 gate, down Union Avenue to Union Street, in.the Blue Gate, past the President's House to Alexander ·Field. 12:30 p.m. Highlights of the 1983 Dutchman Football Season. Room 016, Social Sciences Building. 1-3 p.m. Ice Skating. Achilles Rink. 1:30 p.m. Football vs. R.P .I. Astroturf Field. 82nd renewal for the Dutchman Shoes Trophy. Half Time-President JohnS. Morris will present the .Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy an? Float Awards. 4-5 .p.m. President's Reception. Everyone is invited to join President and Mrs. Morris in Jackson's Garden (or Old Chapel if the weather is inclement). Featuring the Garnet Brass Quartet. 4 p.m. Women's Soccer vs. Middlebury College. Garis Field. 5,. ~:30 ~ 8 p.m. Dutchman's Dinner. Dutch Hollow Pub. Menu includes steaks, prune r1bs and seafood. $9.00 per person. Limited seating; early reservations are required in advance. Please call the Alumni Office at {518) 370-6168 . 7, $, & 11 p.m. Movie \Moscow on the Hudson.\ Room 016, Social SCiences Building. Sponsored by the Student Film Committee. 8 p.m. Men's and Women's Glee Clubs. Annual Homecoming Concert. Memorial Chapel. 9, 11 p.m. Cabaret. Carnegie Hall. Reserved seats. Tickets are $1.50 and may be purchased at the Stud.ent Activities Box Office. Sponsored by Student Cabaret. 9:15p.m. Gala Fireworks Display. Library Field. to-1 p.m. Homecoming Dance. Alumni Gym; Featuring music by Union students. Sunday, October 14 9 a.m. Noon Homegoing Brunch. Dutch Hollow Pub. Adults $5.00, Under 12, $3.00. 10 a.m. Catholic Mass. Memorial ChapeL 11 a.m.·l p.m. Hillel Homecoming Brunch. Kosher Kitchen, West College. $1.00 members, $2.00 non-members. Sponsored by J.S.O. Hillel. 11 a.m. Ecumenical Church Service. Speaker-Reverend Dr. James A. Farrell '54. ~Ji~g~l p.m. Movie \Moscow on the Hudson.\ Room 016, Social Sciences Jackson's Garden, 1902

' ~\I PageD r ... i -~~ ''\ ' s OONOORDIENSIS~ October 11~ 1984 RPI UPAC Concert Board presents: Friday, November 9th 8 p.m. at RPI Field House Tickets: $12 reserveseating tickets on sale at all Ticketron Outlets Friday, October 12 For a 20 • :?8 full-color ooster of th•s art o;end $6 00 c·hec~ or monP'W ordpr oavatliE> to Anhf>tJCi.P' But.rt'l Inc O~pf 11 0 One Busch Place St LOUIS MO 63118 Allow d-6 weeks OHe-r e~~;o,res December 31 1984 Votd wnerp proh,b•IPd li• · ·w• ',f u\ . • .... . • , .. , \ • . •·· ll· ' ., .... •. t.'-IHF , ,..,,,. th•'•t·•· ''-'' • \' ,. ,, ... .. r I Wacky, Witty, wonderful IWBBER STAMPS The Open Door Zip wool lined TRENCH COATS Cotton/Polyester, water repellant for year around weather porfec· tion. Belted waist and sleeves. Regulars, shorts and longs. regular price 165. $129 90 Sale • · includes alterations ~(2UI'Rg ~!-k0~T (- I.\ 11 ,\'(')! '•I 1\J ,.\( J/1 \11 1 / \Jrl '-....< tr '. rm .. c:tnf/Jtrt•i . . l \.__ , . \inu /II IQ ({ - ~. 470 State Street • Schenectady f.ree Parking on Broadway Adioining Our Rear Entrance Mastercard • Visa • Am. Express Squire Shop Charge Open doily til 9 e Saturday til S all remaining SUMMER SUITS Pierre Cardin- Sasson- etc. Reg.to $8990 295. alterations not included at this price , ~(QU l'l(f; J!li9\T c- I \ II .\'(')/ '· l h'J ,.\(,;II \I (J/ II 1 \ '---'< iy 1 fll~t {:.;tu!IJDf'i ' )'-. ' \_ , . \mu /Q /() ((:.:--- 470 State Street • Schenectady Free Parking .,n Broadway Adjoining Our Rear Entrance Mastercard • Visa • Am. Express Squire Shop Charge Open doily til 9 ., Saturday til S WELCOME HOME :f: . . - (!) c: ro .., >. ..0 0 0 .r: c. I I

'j CONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1984 IE = RPI UPAC Concert Board presents: Friday, November 9th 8 psmo at RPI Field House Tickets: $12 reserve seating tickets on sale at all Ticketron Outlets Friday, October 12 t ' j , I >' 1 , I ' 0 f•O I \ f 0 t ' 1 ~~ ~ 0 I I< ' ' > • ' !r•' ~ I o +' • t f\ • > I ··.' .. , •. H , ~ t• .-t ., • I The Open Door \,_; .. ()() (:'1 C)(.)(_')(~)() ~1(:_) Q ( _J • • 4'. J ,. TRENCH COATS ( ottnn P0ly•· t•·r .,., Jt··• rt·p•·h~ult fur yP(]t (J I (>t_•nd Af'CJtht>r pr,th•t t1on Belted w01st and sleeves regular price 165. e~(')lllRJ:-'e~IIN_T ' . I .. II . \' 'I : /, I \ I I/ . I I ' ' ' ' - ~\ '\~ •. r , • . ~ J . ( ;. .. ': 420 State Street • Schenectoliy Free Parking on Broadway Adjoining Our Rear Entrance Mastercard • Visa • Am. Express Squire Shop Charge Open doily til9\ Saturday til 5 all remarnong SUMMER SUITS Prerre Cardrn Smson elt. R~~t' $8990 e~(~Jl 'I'RJ<e~l-k\}'r . ~ ;:,.' . ~_) 4 20 State Street o Schenectady Free Parking on Broodwoy Adjoining Our Rear Entrance Mastercard • Viso \ Am. Express. Squire Shop Charge Open daily til 9 • Saturday til 5 WELCOME HOME ' \ .... ~ \\'\ '0 E: J \ c;; ~ :tl ... !!? &: )... .0. 2 0 £; Q.

't'Y- :')!;:1~ .;..:: 'b'': J •• • •r' ~:f,i •' '1' larit ves. \ltl \ /I l ss c: Ill E -\' c: ~ Ill ... ~ ~ ::... .0 0 0 .c: Q. OONOORDIENSIS, October 11J 1984 Page E WGS GONE BY ~\ s::: ttl E .::.'. s::: ttl iii ... 2 ~ >- .0 0 - 0 .r: a. ~~ ' s::: 10 E X. s::: ~ CD ... Ill - If ~ 0 0 .s::: a. _., }~

~ Q ,._ r '>'-' ~· q ,., '''' s 'U E: J \ c; ·. ~ :1) .... ~ ~ :.. .t:l ~ 0 .s::; Q. CONCORDIENSIS, October 11} 1984 Page E WGSGONEBY .~ ,. .. .. _. ,f J +,..~ '\\ \ . . \ <& i ,· . c rc , ' E .. ..X c rc CD >- 0 0 0 .c < ~ f .... c rc E .¥ c ttl co ._ ~ a.. (l_ > .0 0 L ~ c rc E .:.: c rc iii

Page F OQNOORDIENSIS, October 11, 1984 Griggs. Receives Grant Francis K Griggs, professor of civil engineering, has been selected to receive the 1984 Western Electric Fund Award from the St. Lawrence Section of the American Society for Engineering Education, given for excellence in the instruction of engineering students. The award consists of $1,50() and a certificate, and will be presented at the fall section meeting hosted by Alfed University and STJNY Alfred Oct. 19~20. Griggs is a.graduate of RPI, where he received a master of science in management, a master of civil engineering and a doctorate of engineering. He previously worked as field superintendent for Raymond Ihternational, the New York State Department of Public Works, Western Electric, MSI Incorporated, and taught at Hudson Valley Community College and Merrimack College in North Andover, Mass. The Western Electric Fund Award• has been given since 1964-65 to outstanding teachers of engineering students to honor the recipient and to serve as an incentive to make· further significant contributions to teaching. In order to qualify, the professor must possess broad knowledge in: the &ubject area, ha.ve good rapport with students, and demonstrate intense interest and enthusiasm fortne subjft.ctmatter. Selection f01: the· a:ward also- is. based on sucfi areas as publication, participation in course development,. contribution to tlle improv.ement of laboratories or other· facilities. Is your calculator in the same class you are? Move up to the Tl-66. The easy512 step programmable. You're into higher math and your old calculator helped get you there. But now it's time for something more. ming. And the sleek, streamlined design makes for easy use. guidebook so you shouldn't get confused. And -last, but certainly not least, at a suggested retail of $69.95, there's a price that's .easy on your pocketbook. All in all, if we made the TI-66 pro- grammable calculator any easier to use, VOTE! The TI-66 from Texas Instruments. The TI-66 offers full programming power and flexibility so you can solve complex and repetitive math problems quickly, easily and with fewer keystrokes than you thought possible. Its 512 merged pro- gram steps and over 170 built-in scientific, engineering and statistical functions make for powerful program- l ts Algebraic Operating System makes it easy on your brain by allowing you to key in problems as they .are written, left to right. And a 10-digit angled Liquid Crystal Display not only makes it easy on your eyes but provides alphanumeric notation of your program steps so you can make easy modifications as you go along. There are large, readable keys for your fingers, and an easy-to-follow it-hll~ee. ~ INSTRUMENTS Creating usefu~ products and services for you. COIIUNI,CATI,ON & ·ELECTRONIC SYSTEM ENGINEERING - SECURJlY - DATA SlSTEMS - NARROWBAND · WIDEBAND' · COMPUTER . · ElECTRONICS DEFENSE - NAVIGAHONAL AIDS - AIR TRAfFIC CONTROl · SWITCHING - TRANSMISSION · DISTRIBUTION - RADAR RECROUERS WILL BE ON CAMPUS TUES, OCTOBER 30th INTERVI£WIN& FOR CIVILIAN POSITIONS AS ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS 485th Engineering Installation Group GRIFFJSS AFB, NEW YORK SOl Hattie St. • 393-0594 RESTAURANT AND BAR OUR NIGHTLY SPECIALS Sat. 8 p.m.-Close Molson $1.00 Rolling Rocks 2 for $1.00 Bud & Bud Lite $1.00 Sea Breeze $1.00 Chicken Wings 2 for 1 Iced Teas $1.00 2 for 1 Bar Liquor, Draft Beer Sun. 9 p.m.·l a.m. Mon. 9 p.m.·l a.m. Tues. B p.m.·2 a.m. Wed. 7 p.m.-1 a.m. Thurs. 8 p.m.-2 a.m. Fri. Reg, Happy Hour Happy Hour 4-7 p.m. Mon.-Fri. 2 for 1 Bar Liquor, O.raft Beer Buckets of Wings, so pieces, 100, 500, 1000 ... NO ORDER TOO LARGE WELCOME ALUMNI! II) ttl .~ .t: u Ill c: .t: a. 8 >- .Q 0 .... 0 [ ,, d c c h g d .t: 0.' I . I

II) ro .~ ..c: 1.) Ql c ..c: Q. ~ :... ..Q 0 .... 0 ..c: Q. OONOORDIENSI$~ October 11~ 1984 Page G Issac W. Jackson and His Garden For more than 50 years Isaac W. Jackson devoted his life to this College. Jackson was born in Cornwall, Pennsylvania on August 28, 1804. Early in his childhood he exhibited many talents, in particular, a strong aptitude for mathematics and mechanics. At the age of 17, he was sent to the Albany Academy. Upon completing his studies at the Academy. he entered Union College, where .he attained.high standing in the classics. Jackson graduated from Union with first honors in both mathematics and chemistry in the year 1826. Shortly after graduation he was appointed a Tutor by the College. While he was still attending Union he becamt! actively in- terested in military drill. \Captain Jack\ as.Jac~sonwas often called received his commission from President Eliphalet Nott in the smnrner of 1828 after he was unanimously elected to the post by \Com- pany A\ of the Union College Cadets. \Captain Jack\ was eventually promoted to major; however the nickname \Cap- tain\ always stayed with him. In the year 1831 Captain Jack was promoted to the Professorship of Mathematics. As Professor he wrote numerous books on subjects such as Trigonometry,Qptics, Conic Sections, and Mechanics. His books were adopted and put to use in some American colleges and British in- stitutions. But Professor Jackson simply wrote them for the benefit of his own .classes. He had no desire for publicity, but simply wanted to help his students. · - · Professor Jackson had the degree of Doctor of Laws conferred upon him by Hobart College, but his modesty led him to hesitate before finally giving in and accepting the degree. Now that most of the truly ' important dates in Isaac Jackson'slife have been alluded to we can turn to the real man, the man that has given so much to this College. Unfortunately, most people only seem to remember Jackson for his magnificent garden. However, there is much more to J acksoH than his garden. He was deeply involved with the workings of the College; he wanted to see ]Jnion be a success. His whole life centered in and was bounded by _ his College. He spent all of his time in his family circle, his study, the classroom or with members of the faculty. He was not interestedc in big public occasions because he had no desire for personal recognition. Professor Jackson turned into an a.ffa ble teacher, a truly remarkable professor. who made learning easier for his pupils. Jackson, being of Quaker heritage, entered Union with a strict code of discipline but the late President Nott, whom he loved and assisted most faithfully, modified Isaac's conception of discipline. In time, the impetuousity of his nature was mellowed through experience, inborn kindliness and Christian charity. His dispositioR became such that students would always think favorably of Professor Jackson after being in one of his classes. Jackson affected the College commun1ty in other ways also. When fraternities were in their early yeats at Union Professor Jackson was an avid supporter. undergraduates. Professor Jackson would always step in when he saw that the College needed help. For instance, right after the con~ cl usion of the Civil War, Union College was in critical con- dition. It had been declining steadily during the years in prestige, influence and num- College back in the right direction. Even though the Professor spent many hours in the classroom he still found plenty of time to devote to \his\ garden. When Jackson first arrived at Union he found only a few beds of poor flowers and vegetables. When he departed '._,\ Isaac W. Jackson, class of 1826, Founder of Jackson's Garden Professor Jackson believed that bers. Doctor Jackson was he left a garden which was well the students were in a stage of among one of the first to really ordered, widely extended, filled life where they most needed the comprehend this problem. with select plants, shrubs, and cordial intimacy of elder . Jackson sent our personalized flowers. His garden became one friends, ·arid that they might· requests to the graduates to of the most attractive receive the right advise and start organizing local Alumni possessions of the College. counseling through the con- Associations. It was hoped that fidences of friendship that these Associations would get the Professor Jackson cultivated develop~ in the fraternities. College back up on' its feet so well over 300 varieties of roses. Professor Jackson also thought that its prestige could once He corresponded with the best that the Alumni from these again begin to prosper. It was horticulturists in both England fraternities would also be of Professor Jackson's in- and America. He also con- to the maintenance of his garden at a time when salaries of · collegiate professors were often declared to be too small to permit their enjoyment of the pleasures of the world. Professor Jackson stated privately just a short time before his death that he had put around $10;000 into the garden. The garden used to be used by Professor Jackson and President Nott to extend the reputation and influence of the College. President Nott used to invite the inquiring visitor, usually a potential donor, to call on Professor Jackson for a walk through the garden. This walk would not only produce a pleasaNt general impression of the College, but it would em- phasize the beauties and the capabilities of the school. Professor Jackson's cordial hospitality was also very beneficial in these situations. Professor Jackson learned with much pleasure in the last year of his life that a fund had been projected for continuing his work in the garden. The culmination of Doctor Jackson's career finally came in 1876, at the semi-centennial annivers::1ry of his connection with thf:' C >liege. All his friends and as~ ociates gathered to congratulate him on this momentous occasion and to pay tribute. Displaying his modesty in front of public crowds once again he had Governor Hoff- man, an old student, read the speech he had prepared. Just as Professor Jackson became conscious of failing powers, he ebbed tranquilly away in his sleep. Selected material extracted from Discourses Com- memorative of Professor Tayler Lewis, LL.D, L.H.D., and of Professor Isaac W. Jackson, LL.D. and from Semi- Centennial-Anniversary of the Connection of Professor Isaac W. Jackson with the Faculty of Union College 1876. great service in helping .the volvement that turned the tributed vast amounts of money .----------------------------------------~------------------~ Taken from Union papers after his death with this military\ is an allusion to \Captain Jack's\ student company which paraded on commencement day. \Max\ was in old parlance what \ten spot\ is in the current dialect. The \taste refined for hor- ticultural pleasures\ has descended to Professor Jackson's daughter who has given his garden such loving care for many years. Alumni Monthly, 1909 (?) note, unsigned: \By keeping this within your own knowledge Captain Jack (for obvious reasons) you will The verses \To Isaac W. Jackson,\ printed elsewhere in our pages, will revive pleasant memories in the minds of those who were his students and will perhaps make him something more than an allusion to others of a later day. They were found among Professor Jackson's TO ISAAC W. JACKSON I When poets sang, in days of yore, We often see it stated, To some illustrious conqueror, The1r odes were dedicated. II I ha \<e a right then, .in these times, When Progress reigns, God biess her, To sing, in ragged {eckl~ss rhymes, To a beloved Professor. III You're not the largest man on earth, Nor d0 I love by weight, sir; I like your noble 'soul, your worth, Your mind and talent great, sir. IV I like your skillful reasoning powers, And fine imagination ; For these, with judgment such as vours Would grace the highest stati~n. ' v I like you for your language pure, Your diagrams explicit,- You make your ineaning too so sure The veriest fool can't miss it. VI I like your manly gentleness, Your witticisms merry, Your energetic earne5tness, Your tinge of military. again oblige one whom you have already many times obliged.\ It would be interesting to know who the unknown author was. He had a pretty knack at ver- sifying and well expressed the tender affection that students felt for Professor Jackson beyond all others of a well beloved faculty. The \tinge of VII xrv Nor qualities alone I see,- I like your sunny smile. sir, \Vhen, spite of class formality, You act yourself, the while, sir. And a:ll who've your \Optics\ say \\'ith beauty they are fraught, sir; Full of light and clear as day, VIII I like you for yout heart so true, Your glance and lip expressive, Your well-arranged \Mechanics\ too,- But that would be digressive. IX I like you, that bold impudence You dare' to Jay the lash on, And, like a man of sterling sense, Look down on foolish fashion. X I like you for the charity . You never fail to show, sir, When students, from anxiety Blunder in what they know, sir. XI I like you, that to you 'tis given, P~rhaps by inspiration, To hear the harmony of heaven, Attuned at the creation, XII When morning stars together sang To see earth roll along, And heaven's high.' vaults with echoes As angels caught the song. rang, XIII And then again I like in you, Those very speaking eyes, sir, Grown, \deeply beautifully blue,\ From thinking of the skies, sir . And eloquent with thought, sir. XV You breathe life through the ghastly pile Of mouldy mathematics, You kindle interest by your style In \Statics\ and \Dynamics.\ XVI Y au take the student by the hand, And .spite of predelect ions, He feel> he treads a cha.rmed land, \Vhile conning \Conic Sections.\ XVII I like in you that taste refined For horticultural pleasures, For it bespeaks a healthy mind And body, priceless treasures. XVIII I like you, that when asked for aid, You do not pause and waver, And seem suspiciously afraid To do a friend a favor. XIX But day departs,-the red light flows Aslant the sheet I'm writing, And round yow: natne mor¢ radiance throws Than the poor soul inditing. XX All virtues shine transcendently In you, Professor Jackson, And each of them I finally Must beg to put the \max.\ on.

OONOORD\IENSIS October 11, 1984 . J A. SCOOP. OF YOUR FAVOR ~ FLAVOR ---!---±-- ·ICECREAM HOI CHOCOLATE.. I Welcome Home I '\ Vii>CO COOOi:Ci:iOO Vii>CO conncCi:iOfl ~ •o~ Hundreds of Movies to Choose ,., ::r. nt < ei ~ 8 ::::2 :3 n1 n § ,.. ::r: n1 < ~· 8 :::1 ::'J n1 1'\ ,.. g VCR RENTALS* 5.95/day Weekdays 8.95/day Weekends WEEKEND SPECIALS 14.95 Sat.-Mon. includes 2 movies with this ad & I D 24.95 Fri.-Mon. includes 4 movies with this as & I D 1\1 *Deposit and positive I D required i{i * Reservations suggested uo.~J v BU c c: e ~ > IU :.a: l.li ~ ... v IU e 8 0 ILl t'l > IU :.1: ... S M-F 10-9 ~ Sat. 10-5 Now accepting part-time appl.ications ~ ... v ILl 2 e m e - <. .... ..- - _,__, - 0 2 i:J;i: ViDeO connsct:ion \' ~ \t\lways One Step Ahead\ \\ ~ H 123 Canal Square, Schenectady !I ~ 382-3896 . ~ '\· .() 'On .. ·Vii)ia connection.. tl-ic Vii>i:O connact' Pianist to Perform Pianist Emile Naoumoff will : perform at Union College • Monday,. Oct. 15, at 8 p.m. in , · Memorial Chapel The concert, the first of the year's Schenectady Museum-Union College Concert Series, will · feature Schubert's Sonata in B- flat, Op. Posth, D. 960; Bach's Italian Concerto; Naoumoff's Impasse; and Stravinsky's . · Suite from the Firebird, arranged by Naoumoff. Tickets for the concert are available at the Schenectady ·. Musewn, all Community Box Offices, and at 7 ·p.m. concert · nights. Series tickets are still available by calling the museum at 382-7890 (days) or 372-3651 ( ev.en~ngs and , weekends). Is there an MBA in your future? LEARN MORE ABOUT An1osTuck School at Dartn1outh College College Seniors are invited to experience a day at Tuck this Fall • Sit in on first and • Tour Tuck's excep- second year classes tional facilities • Talk with students • Meet with an • Discuss admissions, Admissions Officer curriculum, place- • Be Tuck's guest for ment, financial aid breakfast and lunch For more details, check with your campus Placemen~t Office or call Tuck Admissions Office (603.)646·3162 ELECTRONIC RESEA.RCH & DEVELOPMENT RECRUITERS WILL BE UN CAMPUS TUES, OCTOBER 30th l!lrll'c•\t laboratory in the - _ nouses some of the development -----\L.--. country. Rome Air Development Center GRIFFIS$ AF.B, NEW YORK INTERVIEWING FOR CIVILIAN .POSITIONS AS ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS MECHANICAL ENGINEERS, CHEMICAL ENGINEERS, PHYSICISTS Our recruiter will be visiting your campus on October 1:8 Contact the job placement office for interview times and appointments . Judge the patentability of scientific and engineering discover.ies made by R & D engineers. inventors and scientists world-wide as a PATENT EXAMINER in Washir)gton. D.C. The Patent and Trademark Office has unique career opportunities offering • Challenge and responsibility • Career growth • Outstanding career Federal Government service benefits For more information about your career as a Patent Examiner contact: Manager, College Relations Office of Personnel Patent and Trademark Office Washington, D.C. 20231 Call toll-free 800-368-3064 (703) 557-3631 (Collect in VA) * An Equal Opportunity Employer mlf • u.s. Citizenship Required *

Page H CONOORDIENSIS, October 11, 1984 SHAVED._ CHOCOLATE. WHIPPED CREAM- A SCOOP OF YOUR FAVORJT FL.ANOR ICE. CREAM HOT CHOCOLATE.. \A CHANGfA&LE. DRINK FORA CHANGEABLE.. SEASON n r-iUYoN£-- --<iTK -~ I c&~:f. ~())J£l I TLiJAT... WITJ>l \THI~ COVPON I I (x,oa o\ll\ly at Offer e.Y-.pire.s I e pl!t\hClpar~~~ C>c.tobe:r30tn,1984. --------- ------- 5A,Q.ea'OGA .Al-~A..lo..JY scm:..\'•J!!::IADY Phlla 5t C~ Mall; 579 New &otl:uldAve Vpper lJrllon 0t I Welcome Home I ,. ViilCO connr:ci:iOO ViL>CO connr:ce::iOO :i' 1 J Hundreds of Movies to Choose ,., :.T. ftl < ti ~ 8 ' '-Hjl 'l J .I 1 ,rl :::J ::J n1 f'\ ,.. g r'l :r. 11'11 < ~ a :J ::::J n1 t\\ r'l ~ VCR RENTALS* 5.95/day Weekdays 8.95/day Weekends WEEKEND SPECIALS 14.95 Sat.-Mon. includes 2 movies with this ad & I D 24.95 Fri.-Mon. includes 4 movies with this as & I D t\l *Deposit and positive I D required ru * Reservations suggested II ff ~ .... v ILl r: c 8 0 IU c > IU ::.1: I ..I < M·F 10-9 6 Sat. 10-5 ~ Now accepting part-time applications ~ I ..I v 9. ftl < ~ - ·-- ~- tHiE ViilcO conniECt:ion ILl c: c e fa '-' > 8 IU ;; 123 Canal Square/ Schenectady iS ~ 382-3896 c r. .0 'On_ Viii>CO connEctiOn. v:a;;: Vii>CO connect.~ Pianist Is there an MBA in your future? to Perform LEARN MORE ABOUT Pianist Emile Naoumoff will perform at Union College Monday, Oct. 15, at 8 p.m. in Memorial ChapeL The concert, the first of the year's Schenectady Museum-Union College Concert Series, will feature Schubert's Sonata in B- flat, Op. Posth, D. 960; Bach's Italian Concerto; Naoumoff's Impasse; and Stravinsky's Suite from the Firebird, arranged by Naoumoff. Antos Tuck School at Dartlllouth College Tickets for the concert are available at the Schenectady Museum, aU Community Box Offices, and at 7 p.m. concert nights. Series tickets are still available by calling the musewn at 382-7890 (days J or 372-3651 (evenings and weekends). College Seniors are invited to experience a day at Tuck this Fall o Sit in on first and second year classes • Talk with students • Discuss admissions, curriculum, place· ment, financial aid • Tour Tuck's excep- tional facilihes o Meet with an Admissions Officer • Be Tuck's guest for breakfast and lunch For more details, check with your campus Placement Office or call Tuck Admissions Office (603) 646·3162 ElECTRONIC RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT largest laboratory in the Force houses some of the t research & development in the country. Rome Air Development Center GRIFFIS$ AFB, NEW YORK RECRUITERS WIU BE ON CAMPUS TUES, OCTOBER 3Oth INTERVIEWING FOR CIVILIAN POSITIONS AS ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS MECHANICAL ENGINEERS, CHEMICAL ENGINEERS, PHYSICISTS Our recru1ter will be visiting your campus on October 18 Contact the JOb placement off1ce for 1nterv1ew times and appo1ntments . .,Jt,r~r.:p t11e r 'ii!PIItaOIIIty nf scrent1f1c and enqmP.ermg d1scovenes made t•~.- Fi f.. [) P'1CllflPPr~ ~nventors ;-jnd SC1ent1c;ts v'Jnrld-w1cJe nS a PATENT EXAMINER 1n Washiii~JlOrl 0 C Tne PCJtent ar1d Tri1demark Offrce has unrque career opportunitres lf.c·'!r,~; • C'lillienge~ CJnd respons1lJ1Irty • Career growth o Outstandrng :,_,J!(T' tl,·(jerd: Gc\ernrner1t serv1ce llenef1ts For more information about your career as a Patent Examiner contact: t~klllnr;Jer College Re!a tron s nfhc~=> nf P0rsonnel Pntent and Trnderni1rk Off1ce Wfl~~hlflQton. [) C 20231 Call toll-free 800·368-3064 r70J! 557-3631 (Collect rn VA) f\,, E (/Lid I l 11'1'' 'r/ur)lfy Employer m 'f • US Crttzensh1p RPqwrPd . . ·.\ . ' .. ' ; . . . : . ' . . . . ' . ' . : . \ . ! . ·: I i I I I i ! ' ! I I I I '. : i I I'

.. ~.m. · • .. · .. 3 0 0 0 t) ay lly ~ob to to ~ss to ho ~y, :~g ss to le ~k <J) Ill 01 .J: u w c: .J: 0. Ill D >- ..c 0 .... 0 .J: c. CXIV, No . .4 Assistant Dean of Students, Robert J. Massa talks about the suc- cess of Alcohol Awareness Week at Union. Scheneclody, New York Alcohol Awareness Reviewed .. \ . School Discusses By JEFF BERKOWITZ Staff Union students may have been surprised on recent trips to the Pub and Skellar this past week. On Tuesday, October 9, the Pub was free of alcohol. Those going to the Skellar on Thursday, October 12, found it to also be alcohol 'free. The reason for the non-alcohol nights was Alcohol Awareness week which ran from October 8 to the 12th. Many colleges acress the nation sponsored programs to educate the students on the problems of alcohol and, more importantly, on drinking responsibly. The Dean of Students' Office and Food Services were in charge of Union's program. They set the dates for the. alcohol free nights, hired a band for the Pub, and advertised through posters and the Con- cordiensis. Unfortunately, Alcohol Bulk Rate U.S. Postage J;Jaid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 October 18, 1984 Loss least tried the alcohol free drinks, which Dean Massa thought were \Fabulous.\ Massa, however, does not think that the poor attendance is a reflection on the Union student as a drinker. The dean stated, \Most students are responsible in their drinking. They do not drink to get drunk.\ This is basically the message that Dean Massa wants alcohol awareness to bring forth. He said, \Students think that we're preaching temperance, when we're really teaching respon- sible drinking.\ Anderson Promotes NUP Awareness Week was not as successful as it could have been. Dean Massa believed that the lack of success of the program was due to Union's \late start.\ The dean stated that, \If there was more time to organize we could h:;.ve done a better job on observing the week. It The dean, while supporting alcohol awareness, also believes that the program tends to attract believers, people already responsible, who attend out of interest rather than anything else. Dean Massa believes that the few problem students there are should be By GAYLE ROSENFELD Editor-in-Chief John B. Anderson, former 1980 presidential candidate and chairman of the newly formed Nation;~l Party, spoke last Friday, Oct. 12 at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel during Homecoming Weekend to a 200 plus crowd. The lecture was sponsored by Union's Speakers' Forur:p. At this his third visit to Union, Anderson €Xpressed an ease he feels at the college: \In a very personal way I feel that there are very few colleges or universities that I would feel more at home at than I am here.'' After this introductory note, Anderson discussed the topic at hand: \The Future of American Politics.\ \Our elections increasingly have been personalized to the point where they represent a kind of ordeal by combat bet- ween those who enter the field,\ said Anderson with the recent televised presidential and vice presidential debates in mind. \Elections have become a national sport,\ he added. \In the new macro-politics of mass communications, issues are no longer important,\ said Anderson quoting another political writer. \It was somehow that image--almost undefinable image- that you got of one or the other can- didates contending for the presidency. It was on that basis that the electorate · would ultimately base its decision rather than on the basis of the issues themselves.\ Anderson continued that if this, as he termed, \widely held opinion\ is true then ''the party as in- stitutions are really no longer terribly significant,\ he ·con· eluded.· The current presidential campaign system· is just too expensive and inefficient in selecting a capable candidate. \The time has come when we ought to ·be looking at the system itself,\ safd the forxner U.S. Congressman fr<>m Illinois. \Maybe somehow the system itself is not producing the kind of leadership that this country requires and that we are not moving on important issues as we should, but not because the individuals themselves are unqualified,\ Anderson added. Quoting Theodore Sorenson's new book A Different Kind of Presidency Anderson said, \We are not making the kind of progress that we should on the most important issues of our time,'' such as the nuclear arms race. \We seem to be im- mobilized,\ said Anderson, \on the great question of what do we do to get out from the awful nuclear cloud that hangs over the world because the arms race rolls on and we cannot find some alternate way of setting our differences and \resolving our disputes among nations other than resorting to force in a nuclear age.\ Anderson added that this situation persists even while the nation is faced with huge federal deficits. \We ought to break the monopoly of the two parties,\ added Anderson because this system is ineffective in dealing with today's problems. A third party should be formed for \that in itself would be a great stimulus to the kind of basic political reform that we need,'' Anderson said. A political party must be \a vehicle for change. It is a progressive means of accomplishing the changes in a dynamic society like ours that will bring us forward and we will move on problems that otherwise will stand in our way. What are parties if they are not that?'' questioned Anderson. He then added that parties \have become literally nothing but a kind of refuge which in turn provides the vehicle or the means of getting an the ballot.\ Political parties once mediated issues for the public, but that is no longer the ·case, claimed Anderson; In an era of special interest groups, public officials find themselves spending a great deal of their time balancing these interests. Special interests are necessary and can be good, but they bring with them inherent problems, said Anderson. Anderson is a proponent of campaign financing distributed prior to most major campaign expenditures instead of after all funds have been spent, because he sees it as a viable means for third parties to compete in the present day two-party political system. \Minor parties 'historically have been a source of important policy innovations,\ noted Continued on page 2 The dry nights at the Pub and Skellar were by no means \Students think that we're preaching temperance when we're really teaching responsible drinking.\ successfu I. The Pub had an overall attendance of about thirty people, w:hereas the Skellar drew a scant ten. In retrospect, Dean Massa believed that alcoholic drinks should have been served at the Pub and Skellat on their dry nights to draw students in. Once in, the students may have at QDeanMassa sought out and worked with individually. Dean Massa had mixed feelings on the subject of beer representatives on campus. \Brewing companies in a brilliant move for their marketing strategies have employed students across the Continued on page 2 Davidson Dormitory won first prize In the \Best Overall\ category of the Homecoming float contest, this past Saturday. Reagan Humor Book Reviewed Page seven Football Team Drills RPI Page twenty >- ..0 0 .... 0 .s:: Q.

Page~ OONOORDIENSIS, Uctober 18, 1981, 'iii ra N :I IXl ra Ql ... \CC .i ~ ~ 0 - 0 -a Visit·ing Assistant Professor of Chemistry, Dr. Dean Katahira is a new face at ·un·ion this fall. ... College Greets Katahira by DAVID GULLIVER Staff If the sports clippings on his wall are any indication, Dean Katahira is not as cheerful as usual. The Chicago native and longtime Cubs fan recently saw his team win the division, only to fall in the :playoffs agaiast .San Diego. Dr. Dean Katahira, visiting assistant professor of chemistry, is teaching fresh- ma·n lab and recitation. He graduated from Lake Forest College in i975 with a B.A: and received his Ph.D. in chemistry from Yale University in 1979. He has also previously taught as. a graduate assistant at Yale. campus is beautiful in both landscaping and design. He enjoys skating at Achilles Rink, swimming and playing tennis. Chemistry began as a childhood hobby for Katahira and has since. developed into a career. He believes in the im- Alcohol Loss· Faced Professor Katahira came to Union College for its educational advantages. ''I was looking for a position with emphasis on teaching,'' he explained. \I had been doing research and felt that I .knew what it was about, so I wanted to try something else.'' When considering his opportunities, he decided that Union offered productive acadE)mic and research environments. Both areas are importaRt to him. \Research is good experience for a student's future, either ill graduate school or in the professional field.\ The science department has what Katahira considers to be \extensive and well utilized'' equipment and he is currently cenducting research in organa- metal compounds. In his spare time,hawever,he is making use of Union's other facilities. Although \the parking is dif- ficult,\ he believes that the . portance ·Of his subject but also realizes the value of the liberal arts edueatien. \Chemistry gives a sense ·Of appreciation of the technelogical society. Like other disciplines, it offers a certain distinct perspective.\ He adds, \An undergraduate education should give you a broad view and develop your analytical skills as well as your expression. Students come out of Union with exposure to various areas that are avialable and should do well.\ Continued from page 1 country to sell their products on college campuses.\ This practice is definitely good for the student, who may make money off the venture. One may even think that it is good for the college campus because the companies sponsor college events such as Camp Union.· Dean Massa, however, believes that \this practice combined with what I would call relentless marketing and ad- vertising practices of brewing companies tend to make dif- ficult efforts to educate responsible drinkers.\ As an example the dean cited statistics, that from 1970 to 1980 the per capita consumption ·Of alcohol rose 31 percent while in the same decade advertising budgets of alcohol companies increased 203 percent. Some brewiRg companies do provide programs that help the cause of alcohol awareness, such as Budweiser's DWI programs, yet success is dif- Anderson Comes to Union Continued from page 1 Anderson. \We de need a party that once again is capable of taking the calculated risk of advancing some of the ideas and some of the issues that nobody is any longer even willing to discuss,\ Anderson said. A third party would, he concluded, \give us the vision and the wisdom to adopt new methods and new measures that the two parties have simply ignored.\ On a side note, Anderson has spent the last six weeks cam- paigning for the Mondale- Ferraro presidential ticket. Cartoon of National Unity Party Chairman John Anderson CoC Speaks to Clubs By DAVE MARIN Staff Last spring, the Committee on Committees (CoC) in- corporated into its by-laws a provision for requiring club heads to submit a review of the club's activities in the seventh week of each term. The review, called \The Seventh Week Report\ is designed for several purposes. It is the hope of the CoC that the reports will give them an idea of whether or not a club is conducting the activities it was formulated to co.nduct. Student Forum Vice President fot Administratibn Sue Brand stressed that the requirement was not meant as a \.political action.\ Rather it is the intention of the CoC to help inactive clubs re-establish themselves or, in the event of a total lack of participation, to dissolve clubs that do not provide a service to the student community due to inactivity. Over the next two weeks, the CoC members will be con- tacting club heads to inform them of the purpose of the forms and to encourage them to complete the forms on time. Clubs found to be inactive will not be dissolved. Instead, they are put unqer scrutiny and possibly given \conditional status.\ After two terms on \con- ditional status,\ a club may be dissolved by a vote of the CoC and then the Student Forum. Clearly the likelihood of such action is slim, Brand reiterated, in an attempt to alleviate fears by the clubs. \The reports are important for us, though, and we should enforce their coming in on time.\ • Medieval Faire The Cathedral of All Saints Elk and Swan Streets Albany . Friday, October 2610 am-9 pm Saturday, October 2710 am-5 pm ficult because of aggressive advertising on the part of the brewing companies. One last note to chemistry students: \From my ex- perience at Yale and Union,\ Katahira said, \Union students are of about the same caliber. My students would fit right in with my classes at Yale.\ The dean concluded that \drinking has gone on for years, and will .continue to go on for years.\ However, he stressed that students should help to demonstrate that good times can be had without alcohol, and stated that what he wants is \that no one gets hurt, that people pay attention to the main reason they are here, and that everyone has a good time.\ TRI-DELTA 24,0 Days Till CORDIALLY INVITES YOU TO AN Graduati.on ALL CAMPUS PARTY ON SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20th AT JO:OO PNI College Plans Shown Student and faculty response was also happy with the plans to the College Center plans was and was \relieved to see that consistently positive, while the architecture will be mat- reaction to th~ road and parking ched with the present ar- plans remained reserved, and chitecture of Carnegie,\ noting in some cases, concerned. that the architects seemed very Coordinator of Student cognizant of the architectural Activities Lorraine Marra said, balance on campus. Phil Bean, \It's been long overdue (the presently a junior expressed College Center) .•. we're really some concern over the question .excited. People walk in and ask of whether or not additional where our college center is and parking should be created by we say this (Carnegie) is it.\ the road to Carnegie. He felt Junior representative to the . that issue had not been properly Board of Trustees Andy George resolved at Wednesday's meeting. Dean of Students Joseph Marnmola was \'very pleased wjth the plans . \ . . in part because of the reaction from other people who have attended the two meetings.\ He praised the architects highly, par- ticularly th,eir \enthusiasm and willingness to listen and respond to members of Union College's Community.\ He feels that this will be reflected in the structure that is erected. B Ir terJ frat terr. one org ser wa~ nun It Fri, wei twE WOI ·.J sei hou tur1 con esc nig fra dUI bro we1 1:31 in t to jac 'I not fra c ~ c 4:5 sec rna the Scl an< ym ch• ag• for as f inc ala SpE dr1 Stt sci

Page 2 CONOORDIENSIS, Uctober 18, 1981, >.. .:l 0 - 0 ..c Q. .. . College Greets Katahira by DAVID GULLIVER Staff If the sports clippings on his wall are any indication, Dean Katahira is not as cheerful as usuaL The Chicago native and longtime Cubs faR recently saw his team win the division, only to fall in the playoffs agaiNst .San Diego. from Yale University in 1979. He has also previously taught as a graduate assistant at Yale. campus is beautiful in both landscaping a!ld design. He enjoys skating at Achilles Rink, swimming and playing tennis. Dr. Dean Katahira, visiting assistant professor of chemistry. is teaching fresh- man lab and recitation. He graduated from Lake Forest CoHege in 1975 with a B.A. and Visiting Assistant Professor of Chemistry, Dr. Dean Katahira is a received his Ph.D. in chemistry new face at Union this faN. Professor Katahira came to Union Cellege for its educational advantages. \I was looking fer a position with emphasis on teachiHg,\ he explained. \I had been doing research and felt that I knew what it was about, so I wanted to try something else.\ When considering his opportunities, he decided that Union offered productive academic and research environments. Both areas are important to him. \Research is good experience for a student's future, either in graduate school or in the professional field.\ Chemistry began as a childhood hobby for Katahira and has since develeped into a career. He believes in the im- portance of his subject but also realizes the value of the Hberal arts education. ''Chemistry gives a sense of appreciation of the technological society. Like other disciplines, it offers a certain distinct perspective.\ He adds, \An undergraduate education should give you a broad view and develop your analytical skills as well as your expressiolil. Students come out of Union with exposure to various areas that are avialable and should do well.'' Alcohol Loss Faced The science department has what Katahira considers to be \extensive and well utilized\ equipment and he is currently conducting research in organa- metal compounds. In his spare time, however, he is making use of Union's other fadlities. Although \the parking is dif- ficult,\ he believes that the Continued from page 1 country to sell their products on college campuses.\ This practice is definitely good for the student, who may make money off the venture. One may even think that it is good for the college campus becaase the companies sponsor college events such as Camp Union. Dean Massa, however, believes that \this practice combined with what I would call relentless marketing and ad- vertising practices of brewing companies tend to make dif- ficult efforts to educate responsible drinkers.\ As an example the dean cited statistics, that from 1970 to 1980 the per capita consumption of alcohol rose 31 percent while in the same decade advertising budgets of alcohol companies increased 203 percent. Some brewiNg companies do provide programs that help the cause of alcohol awareness, such as Budweiser's DWI programs, yet success is dif- Anderson Comes to Union Continued from page 1 Anderson. \We do need a party that once again is capable of taking the calculated risk of advancing some of the ideas and some of the issues that nobody is any longer even willing to discuss,\ Anderson said. A third party would, he concluded, \give us the vision and the wisdom to adopt new methods and new measures that the two parties have simply ignored.\ On a side note, Anderson has spent the last six weeks cam- paigning for the Mondale- Ferraro presidential ticket. Cartoon of National Unity Party Chairman John Anderson CoC Speaks to Clubs By DAVE MARIN Staff Last spring, the Committee on Committees ( CoC) in- corporated into its by-laws a provision for requiring club heads to submit a review of the club's activities in the seventh week of each term. The review, called \The Seventh Week Report\ is designed for several purposes. It is the hope of the CoC that the reports will give them an idea of whether or not a club is conducting the activities it was formulated to conduct. Student Forum Vice President for Administration Sue Brand stressed that the requirement was not meant as a \political action.\ Rather it is the intention of the CoC to help inactive clubs re-establish themselves or, in the event of a total lack of participation, to dissolve clubs that do not provide a service to the student community due to inactivity. Over the next two weeks, the CoC members will be con- tacting club heads to inform them of the purpose of the forms and to encourage them to complete the forms on time. Clubs found to be inactive will not be dissolved. Instead, they are put un~er scrutiny and possibly given \conditional status.\ After two terms on \con- ditional status,\ a club may be dissolved by a vote of the CoC and then the Student Forwn. Clearly the likelihood of such action is slim, Brand reiterated, in an attempt to alleviate fears by the clubs. \The reports are important for us, though, and we should enforce their coming in on time.\ · Medieval Faire The Cathedral of AJI Saints Elk and Swan Streets Albany . Friday, October 26 10 am-9 pm Saturday, October 2710 am-5 pm ficult because of aggressive advertising on the part of the brewing companies. The dean concluded that \drinking has gone on for years, and will continue to go on for years.\ However, he stressed that students should help to demonstrate that good times can be had without alcohol, and stated that what he wants is ''that no one gets hurt, that people pay attention to the main reason they are here, and that everyone has a good time.\ 240 Days Till Graduation One last note to chemistry students: \From my ex- perience at Yale and Union,\ Katahira said, \Union students are of about the same caliber. My students would fit right in with my classes at Yale.\ TRI-DELTA CORDIALLY INVITES YOU TOAN ALL CAMPUS PARTY ON SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20th AT 10:00 PM College Plans Shown - Student and faculty response to the College Center plans was consistently positive, while reaction to the road and parking plans remained reserved, and in some cases, concerned. Coordinator of Student Activities Lorraine Marra said, \It's been long overdue (the College Center) ... we're really .excited. People walk in and ask where our college center is and we say this (Carnegie) is it.\ Junior representative to the Board of Trustees Andy George , ~. . I I L ~ !' ' ' ! I '' . r ~-P! was also happy with the plans and was \relieved to see that the architecture will be mat- ched with the present ar- chitecture of Carnegie,\ noting that the architects seemed very cognizant of the architectural balance on campus. Phil Bean, presently a junior expressed some concern over the question of whether or not additional parking should be created by the road to Carnegie. He felt that issue had not been properly resolved at Wednesday's meeting. \ , . . · Dean of Students Joseph Mammola was \very pleased with the plans . . . . in part because of the reaction from other people who have attended the two meetings.\ He praised the architects highly, par- ticularly their \enthusiasm and willingness to listen and respond to members of Union College's Community.\ He feels that this will be reflected in the structure that is erected. i ~ i .i 'i ' r~ .l 1 ' l tel frE ter on Ofi se1 v,·~ nu It Fr WE tw we sel ho tUJ co es' ni. fr: du br in to ja no fr: 4: se m th Sc ar yc d a~: fo m in a! s~ dJ St SC

He ink, a a im- of ~ike a a out to ex- in Ul Ill .9 .c. u Q) c .c. Q. ~ ~ 0 0 .c. c. m OONOORDIENSIS, October 18, ·1984 Page 3 IFC Escorts Fold By JOANNE McANDREWS .Staff In the beginning of spring term last year, the Inter- fraternity Council,· in an at- tempt to respond to a concern . on campus forsafety after dark., organized a campus escort service. A statistical analysis was done concerning the number of requests for escorts. It was fotmd that Tuesday, Friday, and· Saturday nights were peak nights with ten to twenty calls, mostly from women students. ·.Jamie Dees of Kappa Sigrna sei'.np a schedule, and called houses to remind them of their turn. Training sessions were conducted by Security. . The escort service operateuthree nights a weekr with each fraternity taking one night during spring term. Two brothers from the fraternity f l!il> were on call rom 8:30 p.m. to 1:30 a.m. They had office space in the security building, walked to calls, and wore orange jackets to identify themselves. The demand for escorts was not as high as the Inter- fraternity Council (IFC) had expected. Robert J. Massa, Assistant Dean of Students, stated, ''My speculation is that the low demand was due to the fact that this was a foot escort as · opposed to a car escort provided by Security.\ The · administration explored the possibility of making_ a car available to the IFC for this purpose, but the. liability risks on the part of the college for non-employees driving college The demand .for escorts was not as high as ;the Interfraternity Council ·( IFC) -bad expected. vehicles was high. A decision was made and the program was dropped. Massa commented on the decision, \It was not due to the lack of in- terest on the part. of fraternities, it was due tolack.of demand·by the students. This project was a great effort on the part of the IFC.'' Pierce J: Fitzgerald; Assistant Director of SecurUy and Safety, stated, \Prior to the IFC's proJect, we had a student security patrol for escorts. At this time, we used the student patrol that works nights for escorts. Also, officers can escort if they are in the vicinity of the call.\ The student security patr0l goes off duty at midnight, but an escort from Security can be ca1led any night, all night long. However, Fitzgerald made it dear that this service was not to be used as a free ·ride from party to party. He explained, \We don't want to become a taxi service~we are providing a security service.\ Fitzgerald gave his en- couragement for legitimate requests for escorts, and stressed that people need not be shy or embarrassed about calling. He declared, :'We are more than happy to provide an escort service. If it's good for someone's peace ·of mind, ,then it's worth it. I hope that there aren't many peopfe holding out. I hope that they make use of it. I would also like to say that what the IFC has done so far was a good show of campus com- munity involvement, and I congratulate them on that.\ Schenectady Youth· Arrested on Campus drugs. By JANICE GROSSMAN and LAURIE SILBERG Staff On Tuesday, October 9, at 4:53 p.m., Union College security was alerted that marijuana was being sold by the stairs leading to Fox. The Schenectady Police were called and arrested a Schenectady youth for trespassing. No drug charges could be brought against the intruder, however, for he was trying to sell oregano According to Dean Massa, if such a problem were to be brought to the administration's attention, the following procedure would be followed: evident, security would be notified. It would be security's job to call the Schenectady PoLice. If an addiction problem were to be discovered, ad- ministration would make every effort to get the student help.- \If a student was to abuse drugs he would be unable to survive academically at Union.\ Drug problems do not arise often on Union's campus. The Assistant Director of Security, Pierce Fit2:gerald, attributes this to the high caliber of Union students and the pressure of the workload. \If a student was to abuse drugs he would be unable to survive academically at Union,\ says Fitzgerald. Because of this, drug problems and policies are one of the least frequently talked about issues on campus. as pot. · . Although this drug-related incident turned out to be a false alarm, Union College does have spec~fic methods for handling drug pro;blems on campus. Students should be aware of the school's policy concerning Th.e head of the student's residence hall would be notified or the student would be con- tacted by the dean. The student would have one hour to get rid of the drugs. If after this allotted time the drugs remained The attached weekly class schedule is submitted by CUE for faculty discussion. This schedule is, in .CUE's op.inion, the best of several that it has considered. A detailed summary of all the we!!kly schedules discussed by CUE has been sent to depart- ment heads. Interested faculty are invited to peruse this summary. CUE believes that the attached schedule has several distinct advantages over our present we_ekly schedule. These advantages are listed below. A. Introduction of \Gel Time\ into Weekly Schedule: A frequent concern of both faculty and students with the 10-week term is the rapid pace of course work. Many believe that this problem can be partially alleviated by avoiding class meetings on consecutive days . The proposed schedule contains this !'gel time'! advantage while maintaining a minimum of 195 minutes of class time per week.- Periods la, sa, an.cf 7a. provide 255 minutes of weekly instruction wllich. is roughly equivalent to ·present 5 hour-week courses such as those i~ mathematics. B. Gr-eater Efficiency and Flexibility of Course Scheduling: The proposed ·schedule' eliminates the troublesome mid-week \weekend\ that currently plagues Union's weekly schedule. Moreover, courses can be spread over a true 5-day week tather that the more typical 4-day week at present. - The later starting time for the first p~riod will result in better utilization of this time slot. Currently, only 12 percent of all courses are offered in the 8:30a.m. slot. While some faculty reasons for avoiding this period are questionable,. it is clear that this slot does present problems for those with school-age children. A 9:00 a.m. starting time would eliminate this problem. The longer periods in the Tuesday- Thursday sequ.ence add considerable flexibil.ity to the weekly schedule. These periods are ideal for seminar and studio arts .courses. Moreover, it is possible for a faculty member to combine periods 4 and 6 and thereby teach a course that meets once a week. Greater flexibility in lab scheduling is also a benefit of the proposed schedule. Labs car:~ be offered in the Tuesday-Thursday sequence as well as during all give afternoons. In- cidently, afternoon labs would begin at 1:30 p.m. and end at 4:20 p.m. so that late af. ternoon activities would not be adversely affected by the change. C. Creation of \Bui.lt-in\ Meeting Times: One of the serious complaints about our current weekly schedule is the lack of designated meeting times for visiNng lec- turers, college-wide colloquia and com- mittees. As a result, we have difficulty scheduling events when many can attend. The period from 10:40 a.m. to 12:50 p.m. on Tuesday and Thursday provides such a time with minimum conflict. Only those who have a -Tuesday or Thursday lab would have a conflict, and even these individuals would be free after 11:30 a.m. Moreover, it is unlikely tha.t a given individual would have. labs on both mornings, so that at least one of these periods should be free. The proposed weeRly. class schedule~ Note that periods la, Sa, and 7a are five hours/week. Laboratories could start at 1:30 P.M. or at 9:00. A.M. on Tues. & Thurs. Evening classes would start at 4:30 P.M. Career fest at Union- Jobs Explored By LIZA LEIDNER Staff \Is there life after Union?\ is a common question voiced by students as they approach their graduation. Pam Hartman, coordinator of the Sixth Annual Career Festifal, set out to prove that there is, in actuality, life after Union. The Union College Career Development Center in conjunction with the Hudson Mohawk Association of Colleges and Universities sponsored a career festival on Wednesday, October 10 in the Alumni Gym. This career festival gave students a chance to investigate career options and op- portunities. Sixty-eight representatives _ were present from thirty dif- ferent companies, representing approximately eight career fields. \Every major at Union was represented p~us some others,\ indicated Pam Hart- man. Companies represented include: Proctor and Gamble, which gave out samples of their new chewy cookies, New Y()rk TelephOne, and the US Navy, among many others. Most of the representatioA seemed to be from technical fields, but, as Pam Hartman suggested, the reason for this is due to the fact that there is more of a turnover in technical jobs and, therefore, more recruitment is necessary. \I think it was succ~ssful (the career festival) because a number of students came up to me saying 'I think I .found a direction,' and that makes it all worthwhile,\ exclaimed Pam Hartman when asked about the success of the career festival. So what is the career picture for 1985 graduates? \That's a good question,\ Pam Hartman replied. In general, the job market is progressing fairly steadily on the same path as in recent years. All in all, the Sixth Annual Career Festival was informative and educational for each of the 380 people who at- tended. Rat Reviewed By DAVE MARIN Staff Students outraged over the one o'clock Rathskeller closing time may have reason to let the foam settle, if indications are accurate. President of the Student Forum, Steve Benson, spoke on behalf of that organization to Dean of Students Joseph Mammola two weeks ago about the con- troversial issue. At that time, according to Benson, Marrunola said he would look . into the matter. This past Tuesday, October 16, the two niet again and Mammola was \open\ to the idea of extending the hours of the Skeller until two a.m. on weekend nights as suggested by Benson. \There were no commitments of any kind,'' said the Forum President, ''but there seemed to be a positive response by Dean Mammola.\ Speculation on why the ad- ministration chose to close the Skeller early is varied. Student views include fear of liability, faculty objection to the College serving as a supplier of alcohol and just general contempt for the Skeller by the ad- ministration. Unfortunately, Dean Mam- mola was not available for comment at the present time. Thursday, October 18 4:30p.m. • Strauss Lounge TOWN MEETING for all interested, to discuss: Gel- Time Schedule Monday 8:30 a.m.-4:30p.m. ~ Carnegie Hall Referendum on Gel- Time Schedule Monday Wedneeday Friday .- - - - -- - -,B:4o IJ:dtl. . id.- . 1 10: t) s'\'---------1 /0 ; ,.s,._ ____ __, 3 11:~'--------1 1/:3()] s- I !-<.: - I $'a, I '----- --.!IJ:s.J r - - J<t.- - - rl.'4tJ .;<: oo 1---.-.:.;;;=-----1 7 ?:ot...__ ____ ......, :s :,r;;.__ ..... ______ _, 8 1-l<l'------....l Tuesday Thursday 2 to: t/o '----: 1 ,.------1 A0 ci1s.Je) sdedule/ a :(d ,__ _ _,~.__ __ ....., 4 :<:30'---------J 2:1o ..--.----...., 6 4-'M'------....1

both He a a irn- also stry of Like ~s a a ~ out ~ to ex- on,\ in ~ph els ,j .( l \t ( I J l . \ CONOORDIENSIS, October 18, 1984 Page 3 IFC Escorts Fold By JOANNE McANDREWS Staf.f In the beginning of spring term last year, the Inter- fraternity Council, in an at- tempt to respond to a concern on campus for safety after datk, organized a campus escort service. A statistical analysis was done cor~cerning the number of requests for escorts. It was found that Tuesday, Friday, and Saturday nights were peak nights with ten to twenty calls, mostly from women students. . Jamie Dees of Kappa Sigma sef..up a schedule, and called houses to remind them of their turn. Training sessions were conducted by Security. The escort service operated- three nights a week, with each fraternity taking one night during spring term. Two brothers from the fraternity . were an call from 8:30p.m. to'·\ 1:30 a.m. They had office space in the security building, walked to calls, and wore orange jackets to identify themselves. The demand for escorts was not as high as the Inter- fraternity Council (IFC) had expected. Robert J. Massa, Assistant Dean of Students, stated, \My speculation is that the low demand was due to the fact that this was a foot escort as opposed to a car escort provided by Security.\ The administration explored the possibility of making a car available to the IFC £or this purpose, but the liability risks on the part of the college for ngn-employees driving college The demand for escorts was not as high as the Interfraternity Council ( IFC) ·had expected .. vehicles was high. A decision was made and the program was dropped. Massa commented on the decision, \It was not due to the lack of in- terest on the part of fraternities, it was due to lack of demand by the students. This project was a great effort on the part of the IFC.\ Pierce J. Fitzgerald, Assistant Director of Security and Safety, stated, \Prior to the IFC's project, we had a student security patrol for escorts. At this time, we used the student patrol that works nights £or escorts. Also, officers can escort if they are in the vicinity of the call.\ The student security patrol goes off duty at midnight, but an escort from Security can be called any night, all night long. However, Fitzgerald made it clear that this service was not to be used as a free ride from party to party. He explained, ''We don't want to become a taxi service-we are providing a s-ecurity service.\ Fitzgerald gave his en- couragement for legitimate requests for escorts, and stressed that people need not be shy or embarrassed about calling. He declared, .\We are more than happy te provide an escort service. If it's good for someone's peace of mind, then it's worth it. I hope that there aren't many people holding out. I hope that they make use of it. I would also like to say that what the IFC has done so far was a good show of campus com- munity involvement, and I congratulate them on that.\ Schenectady Youth Arrested on Campus drugs. By JANICE GROSSMAN and LAURIE SILBERG Staff On Tuesday, October 9, at 4:53 p.m., Union College security was alerted that marijuana was being sold by the stairs leading to Fox. The Schenectady Police were called and arrested a Schenectady youth for trespassing. No drug charges could be brought against the intruder, however, for he was trying to sell oregano as pot. According to Dean Massa,. if such a problem were to be brought to the administration's attention, the following procedure would be followed: evident, security would be notified. It would be security's job to call the Schenectady Pol.ice. If an addiction problem were to be discovered, ad- ministration would make every effort to get the student help. · \If a student was to abuse drugs he would be unable to survive academically at Union.\ Drug problems do not arise often on Union's campus. The Assistant Director of Security, Pierce Fitzgerald, attributes this to the high caliber of Union students and the pressure of the workload. \If a student was to abuse drugs he would be unable to survive academically at Union,\ says Fitzgerald. Because of this, drug problems and policies are one of the least frequently talked about issues on campus . Although this drug-related incident turned out to be a false alarm, Union College does have specific methods for handling drug problems on campus. Students should be aware of the school's policy concerning The head of the student's residence hall would be notified or the student would be con- tacted by the dean. The student would have one hour to get rid of the drugs. If after this allotted time the drugs remained The attached weekly class schedule is submitted by CUE for faculty discussion. This schedule is, in .CUE's opinion, the best of several that it has considered. A detailed summary of all the weekly schedules discussed by CUE has been sent to depart- ment heads. Interested faculty are invited to peruse this summary. CUE believes that the attached schedule has several distinct advantages over our present w~kly schedule. These advantages are listed below. A. Introduction of \Gel Time\ into Weekly Schedule: A frequent concern of both faculty and students with the 10-week term is the rapid pace of course work. Many believe that this problem can be partially alleviated by avoiding class meetings on consecutive days. The proposed schedule contains this !'gel time\ advantage while maintaining a minimum of 195 minutes of class time per week. Periods la, Sa, and 7a provide 255 minutes of weekly instruction wflich. is roughly equivalent to 'present 5 hour-week courses such as those in mathematics. B. Greater Efficiency and Flexibility of Course Scheduling: The proposed schedule el.lminates the troublesome mid-week \weekend\ that currently plagues Union's weekly schedule. Moreover, courses can be spread over a true 5-day week tat her that the more typica I 4-day week at present. - The later starting time for the first period will result in better utilization of this time slot. Currently, only 12 percent of all courses are offered in the 8:30a.m. slot. While some faculty reasons for avoiding this period are questionable, it Is clear that this slot does present problems for those with school-age children. A 9:00 a.m. starting time would eliminate this problem. The longer periods in the Tuesday- Thursday sequence add considerable flexibility to the weekly schedule. These periods are ideal for seminar and studio arts courses. Moreover, it is possible for a faculty member to combine periods 4 and 6 and thereby teach a course that meets once a week. Greater flexibility in lab scheduling is also a benefit of the proposed schedule. Labs can be offered in the Tuesday-Thursday sequence as well as during all give afternoons. In- cidently, afternoon labs would begin at 1:30 p.m. and end at 4:20 p.m. so that late af- ternoon activities would not be adversely affected by the change. C. Creation of \Built-in\ Meeting Times: One of the serious complaints about our current weekly schedule is the lack of designated meeting times for visiting lec- l'urers, college-wide colloquia and com- mittees. As a result, we have difficulty scheduling events when many can attend. The period from 10:40 a.m. to 12:50 p.m. on Tuesday and Thursday provides such a time with minimum conflict. Only those who have a Tuesday or Thursday lab would have a conflict, and even these individuals would be free after 11:30 a.m. Moreover, it is unlikely that a given individual would have. labs on both mornings, so that at least one of these periods should be free. The proposed weekly class schedule: Note that periods la, 5a, and 7a are five hours/week. Laboratories could start at 1 :30 P.M. or at 9:00. A.M. on Tues. & Thurs. Evening classes would start at 4:30 P.M. Career Fest at Union- Jobs Explored By LIZA LEIDNER Staff ·'Is there life after Union?\ is a conunon question voiced by students as they approach their graduation. Pam Hartman, coordinator of the Sixth Annual Career Festifal, set out to prove that there is, in actuality, life after Union. The Union College Career Development Center in coRjunction with the Hudson M0hawk Association of Colleges and Universities sponsored a career festival on Wednesday, October 10 in the Alumni Gym. Th:is career festival gave students a chance to investigate career options and op- portunities. Sixty-eight representatives were present from thirty dif- ferent companies, representing approximately eight career fields. \Every major at Union was represented plus some others,\ indicated Pam Hart- man. Companies represented include: Proctor and Gamble, v:hich gave out samples of their new chewy cookies, New York Telephone, and the US Navy, among many others. Most of the representation seemed to be from technical fields, but, as Pam Hartman suggested, the reason for this is due to the fact that there is more of a turnover in technical jobs and, therefore, more recruitment is necessary. ''I think it was successflil t the career festival) because a number of students came up to me saying 'I thiHk I found a di,rection,' and that makes it all worthwhile,\ exclaimed Pam Hartman when asked about the sl!lccess of the career festival. So what is the career picture for 1985 graduates? \That's a good question,\ Pam Hartman replied. In general, the job market is progressing fairly steadily on the same path as in recent years. All in all, the Sixth Annual Career Festival was informative and educational for each of the 380 people who at- tended. Rat Reviewed By DAVE MARIN Staff Students outraged over the one o'clock Rathskeller closing time may have reason to let the foam settle, if indications are accurate. President of the Student Forum, Steve Benson, spoke on behalf of that organization to Dean of Students Joseph Mammola two weeks ago about the con- troversial issue. At that time, according to Benson, Mammola said he would look into the matter. This past Tuesday, October 16, the two met again and Mammola was \open\ to the idea of extending the hours of the Skeller until two a.m. on weekend nights as suggested by Benson. \There were no commitments of any kind,\ said the Forum President, \but there seemed to be a positive response by Dean Mammola.\ Speculation on why the ad- ministration chose to close the Skeller early is varied. Student views include fear of liability, faculty objection to the College serving as a supplier of alcohol and just general contempt for the Skeller by the ad- ministration. Unfortunately, Dean Mam- mola was not available for comment at the present time. Thursday, October 18 4:30p.m. • Strauss Lounge TOWN MEETING for a II interested, to discuss: Gel- Time Schedule Monday 8:30 a.m.-4:30p.m. '!) Carnegie Hall Referendum on Gel- Time Schedule L'£mdBy Wednesdey Jo'ridey I - - - - - -- 18.·4(J 9:~·tJ it<- . 1 /0: /) r''--------J 10 ; ,.~, _____ ___, 3 I /:1.JJ '--·-------1 //.'30] s- I /.Z: - I s-a I ,_ - - - - - -~ 12: .(j r - - - - - - - /'4:A 71{. I \ ;;? : ~0 1----=-=-----1 7 .?:or'------___. s :,r,;,__ _ _,_ __ __ 8 Tuesday Tbursday 2 1 o: 1/o L---,t ___ _. A0 cks.re) sc-4~?/v/et! a: b<J .------' 1 L---_, 4 2:30'---------1 2.\'/v ..------- 4:J.tJ ,___ ____ ...J

Page 4 00-NOORDIENSIS, October 18, 1984 CaDlpus,News Briefs Bus to Williams Game The Union Alumni Office is sponsoring a bus trip to the Union-Williams football game on Oct. 27. The bus will leave from Alumni Gym on Union's campus at 10 a.m. and arrive at WUliams town about 11:30 a.m. for a tailgate party. Game time is 1:30 p.m. The cost is $12 which includes the round trip bus fare and a ticket to the game. Reservations are limited and wiH be handled on a first-come, first-served basis. Checks, payable to Union -college, must be received in the Alumni Office, Lamont House, by noon Thursday, Oct. 25. Professor Authors Article Bruce Reynolds., associate professor of economics, is one of the contributors to the for- thcoming book China's Foreign Relations in the 1980s. In the book, to be published this fall by Yale University Press, six respected scholars analyze the major fa,ctors that shape the foreign policies of China today. Reynolds' essay focuses on the role China plays in today's international economy. Reynolds is a graduate of Yale University and received his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from University of Michigan. He is a specialist in Chinese economic, political and social systems. He has been at Union since 1974. \Students for Mondale\ Calling on students to register and vote in record numbers, Democratic presidential nominee Walter F. Mondale today urged that students not allow Ronald Reagan to get away with trivializing both their vo.tes and issues of concern to them. Speaking on National Student Voter Registration Day (October 1) Mondale said 'More than any other group, this is your election. Your generation will decide this race. You will live with its consequences, and you will shape the American landscape for the rest of this century. · \Despite what the polls say, it should be because of these very issues~and certainly others- that students will vote in significant number·s to put an end to Reagan's un- derestimation of your generation,\ he added. Launching an intensive last- week voter registration drive on hundreds of campuses nationwide, Gary Brickman, the Mondale-Ferraro National Youth Coordinator, noted since passage af the 26th Amendment guaranteeing 18 year-olds the right to vote, student par- ticipation has declined from a high of 48 percent in 1972, to just under 36 percent of the eligible, registered 18-20 year-olds in 1980. Youth far Mondale-Ferraro, College Young Democrats of America, The United States Student Association, along with the National Student Campaign for Voter Registration and Student Governments Associations are conducting , voter registration drives on hundreds of campuses across the nation during this, the last official week of voter registration. If you are interested in working for the Mondale Campaign, please contact Nancy Grundman at 370-6635 or Jenny Lea at 370-6552. The Writing Center Many students, from fresh- men to seniors, sometimes need the sort .of help that writers can give to each other-help in getting started, in writing drafts, in final editing. The Writing Aides are here to guide you through the process, when you need us. It's your writing, of course, so no one can do it for you. But there's no need for lonely, private panic at paper time. If you've never tried it, you may find how helpful it can be to work through the process with someone else beside you. The Writing Aides can be -a receptive ear for your ideas, -a sympathetic eye .for your first drafts, -a steadying hand along the way. They can answer questions. They can work with you on single assignments or on your writing in general. The earlier yau come to them, the more tney can help. You'll find THE WRITING CENTER on the second floor of Old Chapel, open for your assistance in afternoon and evening hours (to be an- nounced) or by appointment at other times. Come in and get acquainted! Phaup Publishes Monograph Dwight Phaup, professor of economics and chairman of the department at Union has authored a monograph published by The Heritage Foundation, a Washington, D~C., think tank. The essay, titled \The World Bank: How It Can Serve U.S. Interests,\ appeared in the foundation's \Critical Issues\ series. In his article, Phaup suggests that World Bank lending policies should be changed to give the United States and other member countries the right to withdraw their financial sup- port from projects they feel are not in their national •interest. Current and previous ad- ministrations have argued that · membership in the World Bank group consistently serves U.S. foreign policy interests. The primary reason for being skeptical about this is that the U.S. cannot control how the funds it contributes directly or indirectly to the Bank will be used. The Bank has, on scores of occasions, Phaup said, ma9-e loans over U.S. objections based on the recipient nation, the expected economic benefit of the loan and-or human rights concerns. To make the Bank an ef- fective vehicle for advancing U.S. and other nations' policy interests, some changes are required, Phaup states. One such change would be to induce the Bank to raise additional funds for future lending, primarily through sales of loans from its portfolio to both the private capital markets and to governments. In this way, all Bank loans would have to meet one of two tests: (1) the loan would have to be economically sound and pass NYU Programs Business The international business program at the New York University Graduate School of Business Administration has been ranked No. 1 in the nation by The Academy of Inter- national Business. Members of the academy were asked their opinions of the relative quality of international business programs at United States schools and to rank the top 10. The results of the poll were published in the Spring- Summer 1984 issue of the ''Journal of International Business Studies.\ The study was conducted by Donald A: Ball, dean of the School of Business at California State University at Stanislaus, and Wendell H. McCulloch Jr., professor of International Finance and law at California State University at Long Beach. The ten criteria used to rank the schools were faculty quality, number and range of international business courses, faculty research, reputation, publications, competence of graduates, graduate placement, student quality, number of students and foreign- study internships. \International business is one I of the critical areas of study at the Graduate School of Business,\ Dean Richard R. West said. \Our graduates must be educated to serve as in- novative leaders in the face of growing world complexity. Increasing numbers of U.S. and foreign firms are expanding their international operations, and banking ties among nations are increasing world-wide at an unprecedented rate. Location Important \Our international business program is particularly strong because of our strategic location in. the heart of Wall Street and in New York City, the home of many internationally involved business firms, financial institutions and government agencies. Our location has allowed us to recruit and keep top flight students and faculty. An energetic interchange between the school and the business community has helped us to strengthen and expand our international business program.\ The Graduate School of Business enrolls about 800 full- time MBA students, of which about 100 are in the in- ternational business program. Of about 2,500 part-time students, 300 are specializing in international business. Richard M. Levich, associate professor of finance and in- ternational business. heads the international business program. \Our faculty is highly skilled in a wide variety of major academic di_sciplines, including accounting, finance, economics and mar~eting, and choose to specialize in the area of international business,'' Levich said. \This gives our program its special strength and an edge over stand-alone international business depart- ments.\ In a 1978 survey, the in- ternational business programs at New York University and Harvard University tied for first place in a survey con- ducted by Richard D. Robinson, professor of international management at the Alfred P. Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The survey asked past presidents of the Academy of International Business to r8Jlk the nation's top 12 schools. · a market test if it were to be sold in the private capital markets or (2) the loan would have to receive explicit spon- sorship from a donor nation or bloc of nations. The Bank would ~thus take on more of the character of an investment banker, bringing together private or government lenders and borrowers. Women's Support Group Women's Support Group is a student activities group which provides the women of Union College with a forum for discussion. During weekly meetings members relate personal concerns and issues in a confidential setting. Students. staff' faculty and faculty wives are welcome to facilitated discuss•ions. Support group highlights various women's concerns; in the past it has sponsored parent-child and relationship workshops. Women's Support' Group meets Thursday evenings from 5-7 in the Women's Network Room, third floor Carnegie. All women are welcome. Grants Received Susan B. Niefield and Kimmo I. Rosenthal, assistant professors of mathematics at Union have received a $19,100 grant from the National Science Foundation for a project titled \HUI: Mathematical Sciences: Closed Posets in Algebra, Topos Theory and Analysis.\ The award was effective July 1 of this year and expires Dec. 31, 1985. Niefield is a graduate ef Douglass College and received a Ph.D. in mathematics from Rutgers University. Her research interests include categorical algebra and topology, and topos theory. Rosenthal is a graduate of the State University at Buffalo, where he received B.S., M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in mathematics. His areas of expertise include category theory. Raymond J. Rappaport, professor of developmental biology at Union College, has received a $52,193 grant from the National Science Foun- dation for a project titled \Experimental Analysis of Animal Cell Division.\ The award is effective Oct. 1, 1984, through March 31, 1986. Rappaport is a graduate of Bethany College, and received his M.S. frorn the University of . Michigan and a Ph·.D. from Yale University. Robert M. Olberg, assistant professor of biology, has received an $80,000 grant from the National Science Foun- dation to fund a project titled ''Metamorphosis and Evolution of Identified Interneurons Which Steer Flight .in the Dragonfly.\ , The award is effective Sept. 1, 1984, and expires Feb. 29; 1988. Olberg i~ a graduate of Rice University and received his doctorate in 1978 from the University of Washington. From 1978to 1980, he was a post- doctoral fellow at thee Max- Planck Institut fur Verhaltens- physiologie in Seewiesen, West Germany. He formerly taught at the University of Washington, and was an instructor of mathematics and science courses in the Western Caroline Islands as a member of the Peace Corps. Fonun Office Union's Student Forum will be opening a permanent office based on the fourth floor of Carnegie Hall sometime within the next two weeks. The office will function to provide a consistent place where students can present problems and ideas instead of relying on haphazard rendezvous with Forum representatives as has been customary in the past. The Forum office will provide an organizational advantage because the space can safely hold records and constitutions without the risk of being lost in the transition of . officers throughout the years. Office hours will also be designated so that students can effortlessly contact their representatives. Although the organization has been slow to specify these hours, Forum president, Steve Benson, says that \the hours will be constructed so that the office will be easily accessible to all students.\ · Concordiens.is is seeking writers, photographers and artists. Send name, box no., phone no. to box 2517. • IN THE DUTCH HOLLOW PUB ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 19~4 Dutch Hollow Ho\r 5:00 p.m.-7:p.m. All the Taco's yo-. can eat for $1.00 Free Potato Chips and Cheese and C~ckers Special Drink for the week of October 22- 26, 1984 STRAWBERRY DAIQUIRI'S Reg. $2.00 Now $·1.50

of ~Oct. 1, 1986. of rsity of . from has from Foun- titled the 1, 1988. Rice his the ngton. a post- ~· Max- West at the and of of the will office of within office ide a ideas ~or urn been rovide safely lost in ficers Office so has these Steve hours the ~ssible OONCORDIENSISJ October 18, 1984 Page 5 FEATURES ~-~~~~~~~~. .. . . , 1 Wf!!~v~A!.s~~!~!.ALS 1 W~1t1ng the R1ght Resume I · .pitchers _of beer I ByDARLENE~ARD disagreement, according to information, he will order a News BureauD1rector Tom Will, a senior electrical transcript.\ Other specifics TUESDAY $ 1 ·.00 Co. c· kfal\l·s . Union College engineering major at Union and such as grade point average and ·1 I one of the students involved in hi'gh school act1 ·v 1 ·t 1 ·es should • & WEDNSDAY- .50 10 OZ. Drafts You've the project. only be listed if they are out· only got a minute. According to Among topics covered by, the standing. No one wanted to see I TH •URS.DAY _ I a survey at Union College, most . survey was. Whether to write a personal data on the resume $1.00 liced Teas employers spend one minute or general or specific job ob- itself, Will said. less reviewing each resume. jective. Will said smaller I FRIDAY I That doesn't give the eager job companies wanted more 10- CLOSING $1.00 ·Shots . hunter much time to convince sph~chific~ hanhd larger ~irtmsf, I I the employer he or she is the w IC m1g t · ave a vane y o best applicant for the job.. openings, preferred more SUPER WEEKLY SPECIAL .25. Shots of a That's why students general information. I . . · . . · . I preparing to enter the job Resumes can be arranged . TUESDAY- Specla I .Liquor market need to carefully either functionally, listing skills research how to prepare their _and their applications, or I I . resumes-what to put in, what to chronologically, listing jobs in leave out, and how to arrange the order they were held. T .. '}J .. · .. ·li·6· .lt~3- information. With that need in Employers responding to the I ' ·1.· · mind, career assistants· at survey were about equally Union's Career Development divided, Will said, as to which Center sent questionnaires to they recommended. I I executives involved in hiring at Required courses and elec- Just 3blocks from Union 30 New York State businesses, tives are not needed on a primarily engineering, resume, Will discovered. technical and scientific firms. \Employers feel they take up The results showed some space, just pad the resume,\ he consensus and some said. '~If an employer needs that L . 10N.JaySt.-374a4835 ·..I ........ - ....... .•;:;-:--· ~~ f·' ~ .· ·.;. ,.,. / ~- .. :.,l . -~ ·) -~- . Employers surveyed were asked to rank a variety of items on a resume in the order of importance. Will said summer internships, special . skills and projects and relevant job ex- perience ranked high, with personal interests and ex- tracurricular activities ranking low. Regarding references, Wil 1 said 'some of the employer. surveyed did not put mucl weight on good references. stressing the interview instead. Others, however, did check references and used the in formation to make a jot decision. All felt it didn't matter whether the references were confidential or not, and most preferred to see only \References Upon Request\ on the resume rather than names or attached letters. According to literature distributed by Union's Career Development Center, 60 percent of employers form an opinion on a resume based on its ap- pearance alone. Neatness is critical, as is proper spelling and .grammar. Plain white paper is preferred, but off-white or beige paper also meets with approval and can help your resume stand out. Resumes on brightly colored paper or ones with other \gimmicks\ can elcit a . negative response, however. Both resumes and cover letters should be limited to one page if possible. The literature states, \The primary function of a resume is to provide the reader with a concise and accurate description of your experiences and background, and to highlight that portion of your background which you feel has particular importance in your pursuit of a position. Your resume should interest an employer by telling 1) who you are, 2) what you would like to do, 3) what you know, and 4) what you have done. Above all, point out why you are the person for the job rather than someone else.\ HUMAN RIGHTS TABLE October 23rd 11:30-2:30 Carnegie Hall Various groups will be represented, including: BLAS, Women's Network, UCAM, Oxfam, Campus Ministry, and US Out of Central America.

Ul .a 0 u IU ., <II ,:,(. ~ >- .a 0 ..._ 0 .r: c. Page 6 OONOORDIFJNBIS, October 18, 1984 FEATURES. Analyzing Union College By DAVID FITZGERALD Features Editor Joaquin J.inenez fellow from Hispanic Leadership Fellow Joaquin Jinenez, a fellow from the Hispanic Leadership Fellows Program, has been studying Union College for the past two weeks. His study wtll not only be of help to Union but it will also help Mr. Jinenez and other Hispanic leaders in education. Thirty people were chosen to participate in the Hispanic Leadership Fellows Program and the main goal of it is to help Hispanics le~rn more about the administration of higher education so that they are ableto \ ... rise through the Fighting The Acne War!! By SHERRY WEITZEN Staff Acne is a common skin condition that plagues so many teenagers throughout the adolescent years. ·Yet many adults ccntend with acne long after puberty. (Sharon Johnson, Working Woman). It has been said that basic acne is un- preventable. It is caused by a rise in pituitary and reproductive hormones, primarily androgen, which trigger the increased produc- tion and enlargement of the oil glands, also known as. sebaceous glands. These glands are located on the face, chest, . neck, and back, all areas where acne tends to erupt. The areas with the most concentration of these glands tend to develop the most acne. (\Facing Facts About Acne,\ Current Health 2). other factors that aggravate acne are stress, oil based makeup, sweat, menstrual cycle, and heredity. (\When Adults Have Acne,\ Good Housekeeping). Poor diet can also contribute to a breakout, although research has proven that the consumption of chocolate and greasy foods plays no role in pimple development. (\Facing Facts About Acne,\ Current Health 2). The mechanism from which acne forms begins with the rise in androgen levels in the body. Women who discontinue daily use of the Pill may be afflicted with acne due to the decrease in extra estrogen that the Pill provides. (Johnson, Working Woman). Estrogen counteracts the androgen's effects on in- creased oil ( sebUin) production of the 'sebaceous glands. (\When Adults Have Acne,\ Good Housekeeping). The oil is tranferred to the follicular ducts which contain a hair follicle. If the oil, mixed with dead skin cells, and possibly bacteria, clog the pore, oil builds up and a pimple develops. (\Facing Facts About Acne,\ Current Health 2). Acne surfaces in a few different forms: The comedo, which can either be a blackhead or whitehead, cysts, pustules or lumps. (\Acne Health Tip Sheet). A blackhead is named for its color, which comes from the dark pigment of the dead cells. Whiteheads are flesh colored. They are both non in- flammatory, yet the whitehead becomes inflamed while developing. If a whitehead ruptures, .sebum, dead cells, and bacteria are released and are able to seep into the surrounding skin, which could lead to development of cysts and nodules. ''Clear Facts About Acne Cures,\ Changing Times). Squeezing and deliberate rupturing of the comedons can lead to infection and scarring. (\Facing Facts About Acne,\ Current Health 2). Cysts, which are a more serious form of acne, are im- bedded in the skin. (Johnson, Working Woman). Cystic Acne is characterized by deep red carbuncles which lead to pits and scars. (\Now A Real Cure for Acne,\ Newsweek). In women, severe acne could be a sign of ovarian, adrenal, or pituitary tumors, but this is hightly unlikely. Yet it is recommended that if a woman is very suddenly afflicted with a severe case of acne, that she see a doctor just in case. (Johnson, Working Woman). There are so many products on the market that claim to cure acne, but the most recom- mended antedote-preventative is water, to drink at least 6 glasses a day. (Health). The safest and most effective over- the-counter remedies are those that contain Benzoyl Peroxide, in 2.5 percent-10 percent strength; sulfur in 3 percent -10 percent strength; and sulfur- resorcinol in 8 percent sulfur, 2 percent resorcinol con- centrations. (\Clear. Facts About Acne,\ Changing Times). Also, recently, salicylic acid has been found relatively ef- fective. (\A Medical Guide to Skin Problem,\ Good Housekeeping). All of these drugs cause a drying . and peeling condition which clears the skin of clogged oil glaflds and dead skin, and keeps the follicle ducts open, but the products must be applied to the whole area, nbt just to the blemishes alone. A doctor may prescribe antiobiotics, in particular tetracycline, which only works to kill bacteria, and tends to create other side ef- fects, such as yeast infections, and in pregnant women, the unborn baby may develop stained teeth due to the drug. (Johnson, Working Woman). Another cure may be retinoids, in the form of Retin- A, which are a form of Vitamin A. If this is used, prolonged exposure to the SUIJ. must be avoided. (Johnson, Working Woman). Fer more severe cases of acne, steroid injections into the cysts or inflamed area will reduce the swellin·g, 'but these injections are very painful. For severe acne that cannot be treated by antibiotics, a new drug, accutane, has been extremely successful, yet is far from completely safe. It is taken internally by the acne victim, daily, for 15 to 20 days, but there are numerous side effects, including dryness of skin, some hair loss, muscle pain, inflammation around the eyes, and is not recommended for pregnant women, or those that ever want to be pregnant. Acne seems to be unavoidable . These side effects disappear after usage is stopped, and there have been wonderful results in terms of clearing up serious acne. (\Now a Real Cure For Acne,\ Newsweek). In more recent studies, accutane has been found to be associated with pseudotumori cerebri, a brain condition of intracranial pressure without a le~ion being present. The symptoms are headaches, nausea, and visual problems. Accutane is really not used in acne treatment except in extreme cir- cumstances. (' 'Accutane Labeling Updated,\ Health Facts). Acne seems to be unavoidable, yet it is clear that the best way to take care of basic acne is to keep those areas clean by washing -with mild soap 2 to 3 times a day, avoiding pressure to- sensitive areas, using water base makeup, and drinking plenty of water. (Johnson, Working Woman). If suffering from more severe acne than a few zits now and then, or maybe an occasional breakout, then a dermatologist may prescribe .something else, but otherwise, these are the best suggestions to combat the ef- fects of acne. BUY YOUR 1985 GARNET TODAY The Yearbook will be sold for $21.00 in the Student Activities Office until Oct. 31st. After that date, the book will cost $23.00 .. ranks of higher education ad- ministration.\ Mr. Jinenez is currently the director of financial aid for veterans at Orange County Cornmlllity College. He has also worked at the University of Buffalo. Both institutions that he had worked at previously were public, but Mr. Jinenez had no real experience with private institutions. ''I had no real idea of what the private institution was all about.\ When the opportunity for him to study a private institution arose, he took it. Seven hundred in- stitutions were canvassed to see · if they were interested in participating in the program. Union was one of the institutions canvassed. Jinenez had \. . . heard · good things about Union,\ so he decided to come here. \Almost everyone likes it here and is proud to be here.\ For the past two weeks Jinenez has been working very closely with members of the administration including President Morris. During his time here he feels that he has learned a great deal about Union and the operating of a private institution like Union. One of the observations that he made is that Union is a very strong institution. He feels that at this time ''. higher , education is in a period of tumult-population is declining, prices are rising. Union though is able to analyze.and plan.\ He feels that Union's strength is seen in ;the attitude of the students, faculty, and ad· ministration. \Almost everyone likes it here and is proud to be here. From President Morris to Ann the lady that served me coffee in the Pub, there is a strong sense of pride and belief in Union College.\ At Orange County Com- munity College it is important for the · administrators to be aware of the current political situation more than at a private institution like Union. The public colleges have to deal constantly with legislators and other public officials in order to receive money and have programs appr.oved. Public institutions are unable to un- dertake long range plans because they do not know who they will be dealing with from election to election. A private college like Union on the other hand is very able to undertake the type of long range planning that can make it great. Jinenez found the ad- ministration at Union asking fundamental questions about Un~on College and education in general. \What is higher education? What is the .mission of the college? From President Morris down I found that the administration had a warm sense ·Of what the college is and a strong commitment to what it should be.'' On the whole Jinenez found the college to be in very geod ·shape but he did find some problems that he will be discussing with the ad- ministration. The problems he found are smaH but they still should be addressed by the whole college community. One thing that he fot:md was that he feels that the faculty \ ... looks over its shoulder at other in- stitutions too much.\ The faculty at Union is very good and in general it is proud of itself but Jinenez feels it should be very happy with \ . . . high quality for quality's sake and not worry what other in- stitutions are doing.\ Com- petition is nice according to Jinenez but the faculty here should be very proud and happy with what it has, Another problem that needs to be addressed is the com- pacency of the students at Union. It is very fine that the students are proud of their school ·and work hard at their studies but they have to get involved more. Jinenez feels that there are many issues both on and off campus that the students could become involved in. The student J>ody .f!t Union is \fairly homogeneous\ and J·inenez feels that it would be better for this to be improved in the future. The more diversity in student body the better as a whole Union will be. The Hispanic Leadership Fellows Program has been created to give both tile in- stitution being studied and the person undertaking the study an opportunity to learn something. In the future Jinenez may be able to take charge of an in- stitution and use some of the information that he gained at Union and Union may be able to use some of the information that Jinenez gained while he was here. To conclude, Jinenez feels that Union is a very strong institution with a fine ad- ministration, a great faculty, and committed students. He feels that Union has a bright future and that people here should be very proud of what they have. \It is really great for everyone to be going in the same direction.\ Harlem Globetrotters at Olympic Center Friday, Oct. 26, 7:30p.m. Tickets $9 at Olympic Center BoxOHice and Ticketron Is it true you can buy jeeps for $44 !. through the u.s~ government? Get the facts todayl Call J-3J2-742- J J42 Ext. 4269 • i: n u e d a a ]I c s \ l v s r v 0 g i1 a g a p r a p v b v t t! li e t! e iJ b e e a v f, v i: s p A S< .W w

OONOORDIENSIS, October 18, 1984 Page 7 ·V WOMEN I c E. By KARLA HANSON Staff Rape is violence against women. Last Saturday night hundreds of womeR rallied on the steps .of the capitol building to speak out about this in- tolerable crime, and ~o march to ''Take Back the Night\ which is rightfully ours. Although the night march was symbolic of unsafe streets at night, the evening's proceedings ad- dressed the reality of all sexual assault in all surroundings. The rally increased public awarness about rape. Numerous speakers from rape crisis centers, the New York State Commission on Domestic Violence, and the State University spoke about violence, fear,. help, and hope. Some startling statistics reminded us of 'our vulnerability simply because of our sex. Rape is the fastest growing crime in America and it can hcwpen to women of all ages, races, and socio economic groups. Even more frightening are the facts that ap- proximately 50 percent of all rape victims know their assailants, and that over 50 percent of all rapes occur in the victims' or the assailants' homes. Therefore; riot only are women not safe on the streets, they are often not safe with their aquaintences, friends and lovers: Women are iii danger even in their homes! The women who gathered at the capitol are not goint to endure this appalling situation · in silence. Their efforts to fight back were met with words of encouragement. Rape crisis centers throughout the county are helping rape victims deal with their trauma. Law en- forcement agencies are con- victing some rapists. But, there is still a need to improve the situation, and no progress is possible if there is silen~e. . The women who ralhed m Albany each hold the hope of a safer future. United or alone, we are the voice of justice for women. Saturday night. there was marching, yelling and chanting to symbolically regain our safety at night and in the day, in the streets and in our homes. This march signified our dissatisfaction with women's present victimization, but symbolism is not enough. Each woman is urged to ex- press her intolerance by writing, speaking out and especially by voting. No one is safe from the possibility of attack, and therefore no <me should remain silent. One speaker at the rally he'ld a special m~ssage .for college women. Amy Morgan is the Chairperson of the Student Association o'f the State University Women's Caucus. She· described the campus setting as an especially vulnerable one because of the large number of women living in a concentrated area. It is estimated that, with the prev::\lence of acquaintance or \date\ rape, one out of every four of us will be raped before we graduate. Accepting this violence silently is giving our lives and the lives of those we love, to be the victims of physically, emotionally, and psychologically damaging sexual assault. This violence is an unnecessary aspect of our society that enters· the lives of our mothers, our friends, our sisters, and our children. The \Take Back the Night\ rally and march spoke out for: justice, for conviction of the offender, and help for the victims-which could be you. There is rape and sexual assault, and there is fear and danger, but there is also help and hope. Accept this hope of a safer tomorrow, cast away your fear, and help make rape a terror of the past. Schenectady Rape Crisis . Center 346-2266. \Women Voice\· is, by its design, a column to reflect the women of the college and community. Anyone wishing to contribute to the column and its calendar, please contact Karla Hanson, Box 1024. WOMEN VOICE Oct. 18--11:30a.m.: \The Rape Pr.oblem: Rape on Campus.\ 3:00p.m .. : \Rape: The Impact, The Aftermath.\ Van Curler Room, Elston Hall, SCCC. Oct. 18--8:30 p.m.: EVERY THURSDAY! Women's Network Meeting, Women's Network Room, Carnegie. Oct. 19--6:30 p.m.: Union Women's Field _Hoc~ey vs. Manhattanville Oct. 21-27--National Business Women's Week Oct. 23--3:30 p.m.: Union Women's Soccer ys. Skidmore Oct. 24--\Balancing Pe~sonal and Career Needs in the Work- place.\ SUNY at Albany, 457-4263. Oct. 25--\Women in the Political Process,\ Maude Easter-- lobbyist for NOW. First Unitarian Church, 370-3902. WRUC Presents OLDIES RECORD SALE LP'S & 45'S • Over 3000 CHEAP! 2·4 pm Carnegie Hall 1st Sale Date Fri. J0/19 FEATURES . ·~. . fl,.,~ !~n;;Kf;Jt, \ VJ~V .. LJ\t)j~ 1;11¢7 College .Press Serv1ce r- --· -....'::.-\ .Review: Reagan's Administration? By DAPHNE CHI GAS Photo Editor In this election year there is an abundance of parodies on the presidential administration. The Reagan Report is no ex- ception to the rule. The Off the Wall Street Journal takes a crack at the past four years under Reagan in this witty report on the state of the union in the form of a company's annual report send out to stockholders. The end of the fiscal year is upon us and USCO (United States co.) has put out their annual report, The Reagan Report. Published by Doubleday and written by the Off the Wall Street Journal, this report takes a satirical look at the Reagan administration. The report's first chapter looks at domestic affairs, the most important being hunger programs. The new food program that the president proposes is one of fortified cheap wine for the various drunks on welfare, ketchup soup for the hungry school children and a cheese program where all the surplus cheese is sued for school lunch programs. Other domestic · affairs discussed are unions (we must keep them from being so s.elf- centered), Immigration (a pagent will be held for new immigrants), air traffic con- trollers (fire the new· batch before they get a chance to go on strike) and other pertinl:lnt domestic affairs. On the subject of justice we learn of the case where scientists are trying to save the life of· a brassica oleracea italica (italian green broccoli) who was saved by FBI agents just before a Long Island couple could steam it to death. other plans inelude replacing the Supreme Court Judges with such notables as Anita Bryant, Billy Martin, Oral Roberts and the highly respected Judge Joseph Wapner from the People's Court. The report on our Foreign Policy clearly Shows that \the world is our Osterizer. America is on top again.\ Grenada is ours and Nicaragua will be too, says the report. This report goes on to discuss all aspects of the Reagan ad- ministration. But the question still remains, did it work? The report certainly does take a satirical look at some of the more subttle issues of the Reagan administration. If you are politically aware and like a good parody, then this book is \' certainly for you. Targeting Votes (CPS )-Heartened by what supporters term \exceptional\ and \very receptive\ student audiences at several recent campus appearances, the Mondale campaign is trying to woo the elusive student vote with a renewed vigor, campaign organizers report. The new strategy, however, aims at a sector of the population that rarely votes, and that seems to be swinging toward President Ronald Reagan, observers· point out. Moreover, the head of the nationwide College Democrats group thinks much of the part of an organized effort to interrupt the speech, Brickman adds. Although an October 5th New York Times Poll shows President Reagan heavily favored among college-aged voters, Mondale supporters say the USC speech gave new life to his campus campaign. \. . . hecklers provoked Mondale into making one of his best speeches '' . campaign's new student focus is The following week Mondale \hogwash adding the Mon- got another unexpected lift dale troops in reality are not during a well-received speech doing anything different from at George Washington what they've been doing for University in Washington, D.C. months. \When he went to George Nevertheless, \Mondale is Washington and got such an tlefinitely interested in getting outstanding reception,\ Brick- our message to (college man says, \it really helped pick students),\ says Gary Brick~ up\ Mondale's interest in the man, national youth coor- student vote. dinator for the Mondale- As a result of the USC and Ferraro campaign. George Washington speeches, \Mondale has been speaking \Mondale's campus campaign on quite a few college cam- is a little more visible now, and puses, and he's really been we're picking up (the campus getting a lot better response campaign) as we get closer to than earlier on in the cam- the election.\ paign,\ Brickman claims. Among other things, Mondale As a result, he says, \we're will squeeze more campus starting to focus on the campus appearances into his schedule vote and get-out-the-vote ,_,in the weeks before the election, programs.\ and send other Democratic The strategy change, Brick- leaders to campaign for him. man says, came after Mon- Mondale headquarters dale~ September speech at the recentlyreleasedpress releases University of Southern for National Student Voter California, which was punc- Registratiou Day, asserting tuated by repeated heckles and \students will vote in jeers from Reagan supporters. significant numbers to put an But the ~ecklers only end to Reagan's underestimate provoked Mondale into making of your generation.\ one of his best speeches, Brick- \Your generation will decide man says, injecting. some ex- this race,\ one of Mondale's citement and controversy into prepared statements said. \For the appeatance. Ronald Reagan to think that you National press coverage of don't care about your own the event also helped boost futures-care about cuts in Mondale's campus image, loans for education and most of particularly after several of the all about nuclear war-is sheer hecklers admitted they were arrogance.\

Page 8 ~ OONOORDIENSIS, October 18, 1984 <llllllf1lfbirttsis Foii/'KkJ at Umon Co/leg~ !817 ------------- --------- Trashy Subject Litter. A trashy subject agreed, but one that plagues Union's campus. Although this rarely appears to be a problem thanks to the usually rapid clean-up process undertaken by the Colleg.e's Maintenance Department, the fact remains that Union students show little respect fo·r the College grounds in this respect. All one has to do is walk by the side door of Carnegie on a weekend night to find a barrage of paper plates and styrofoam cups, remnants of a student pizza pub outing. Another annual event occurs the morning after a campus fra temity party; plastic cups are almost always found strewn across the lawn in the general vicinity of the party. An occasional bottle or two can often be discovered on the West wall to help add to the general decor. The question here is why this must occur. There are trash cans all over the campus yet many students do not always, if ever, use them. Granted, Physical Plant might consider placing some of these trash cans in more convenient areas, such as by the side door to Carnegie, but that is not the only answer. Students seem to take pride in Union, such as in the football team, yet this pride does not flow into different college areas. This lack of consistency is incomprehensible. So next time you are about to dump that paper cup on the ground, please think about what you are doing and do not litter. Schedule Change Gel-time. Hmmmm. It seems an intriguing idea; restructure the class schedule in ~way which would insure that all students have a break between their classes. No, nota Wednesday break, as many do now. Rather, students would have a period between their classes in which the material they have learned can \gel\ in their heads. The issue is complex, to say the least.. The AAC has drawn up a plan to alleviate the fast pace of the ten· week term, end the \troublesome\ Wednesday weekend, add flexibility to the weekly schedule, provide flexibillty in lab scheduling, and permit time for all students to be able to attend committees, colloquia, and visiting lecturers. Sounds too good to be true, you say? Well, it might be. The trouble is that most of the people who should have a say in the subject do not fully understand all the details. Each student would, ideally, have three classes three days a week, and then two classes two days a week the following week. Confused? The situation becomes more difficult to understand. What if a student chose his classes in such a way as to have five days of class one week and then no days of class the next? Is this possible? According to the CUE proposal handed out, it is difficult to tell. - The administration must give the student body enough time to let this concept \gel\ before definite action is taken. Students want to have a say in the matter. Allow us the opportunity to do so. All/etters to the editor must be typed and submitted by 5 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed, but names will be withheld upon request. LETTERS ROTC Credits To the Editor: At a meeting on October 11, the Academic Affairs Council voted to recommend to the Faculty a change in the way records are kept for ROTC students: in the future their ROTC courses taken at RPI, at least those of an \academic\ variety. would be listed in a special box on the student's transcript If the College does not agree to make this change, then the Navy has threatened to withdraw its s·cholarship support from- ROTC students at Union-that is,. forty or fifty students without tuition, and some half a million dollars lost to the College_ This matter seems petty, petty of the Navy to ask, petty of the College to deny. But important matters, both of principle and con- sequence, are involved which all members of the community should consider before agreeing to the change. First the matter of con- sequence: if it is agreed that the Navy, because of its financial investment ia the school, has the right to ask for more To the Editor: \Uniform signs\ with white lettering on black plastic seem to be taking over our campus. I'm almost afraid to ask who is behind this project, for fear I might be too intimidated to write this letter. These signs just don't blend with the nearly 200 year-eld Ramee design of this college and its buildings. They are incompatible with classic old brick and stucco ivy-covered structures, and, in short, look cheap. We had a nice looking gold- lettered wooden sign reading \Andrew Carnegie Hall.\ We painted over it and tacked up one of these small plastic slabs that says \Carnegie.\ The old sign complemented the style of the building and gave its complete name. What's more, there was nothing wrong with it. The new sign over the east side door of the Arts Building Each Thursday- at noon Concordiensis is dropped off at Carnegie. PLEASE help carry a stack or two into Carnegie on • your way 1n if possible. -Thank You recognition, why should that recognition stop with a com- promised change in the tran- script? It could reasenably ask why its students should have to go to RPI for classes in drill, leadership. and military science. They should it might be argued, have a classroom at Union. If not, no half a million doLlars. If a classroom then, why not military faculty, and if faculty and classreom, why not a building? To give up a portion of control over a transcript is to begin to lose control over all the college's functions. Second, the matter of prin- ciple- The transcript belongs to the college, not to the student, certainly not to the Navy. It is a record of academic courses taken for credit The transcript does .not register training programs students go through at newspapers, businesses, or factories. It mentions no ex- tracurricular activities at all. The courses the Navy gives ROTC students are not such as regular students- c.an or would take; they are not taught by Union faculty or any college faculty. They are, from the New .Signs says \Art.\ Art who? Seems like a letter is missing. A free standing sign has been erected in the courtyard bet- ween Fox and Davidson, atop the stairs from the student parking lot. It reads \Fox & Davidson Dormitory,\ and has one arrow pointing toward Fox. This indicates that Fox and Davidson are both to the left of those stairs, which is clearly not the case. Also, Fox and Davidson are dormitoriES (plural), not one building. I'd like to know how much we paid for this sign, who at Union accepted it, and what the ad- ministration intends to do with it. Money was spent to make an existing situation (no sign) Laurie t.>UIIJ~i~ltt. Nesca, Janice T·: Mn~oitl• point of view of the college, extracurricular activities and non-transferrable credits- If the coHege puts them on the transcript, it wUI do so because it has been coerced, UI'lder threat of financial penl;!Hy to it, .and more importantly, to the students. If the change is made, everyone should understand that the Navy is not being weleomed; it is being received beca'Use entry could not be denied without great loss. What is at stake is the autonomy of the coHege; its policies and procedures should be determined in the light of inte-rests intri!lsic to its - academic. mission, not by ·the coercive financial power of outside agencies. We have a policy about non-transferrable credits_ Why exactly are we making this exception? - Felmon Davis Adrian Frazier Peter Heinegg · Anne Higgins Stanley Kaminsky Jan Ludwig Linda Patrik MarkToher naore confusillg. Uniform signs might not be a bad idea, but these just won't do. We've got a beautiful, unique edifice, the Nott Memorial, crumbling in the center of our campus and we're worrying about uniform signs. It just doesn't strike me as a priority matter. If, indeed, the college feels the uniform signs are necessary, one such sign is conspicuously missing. Over the stairs leading to the basement of old Stoller Hall we must hang one that reads \The Rathskeller.\ ' Sincerely, Douglas E. Landon, '85 Weitzen, Soott Wykoff. . . Photo Staff: Andrea Buz-asi, David Croasdale, P~terGranunasr David Gruber, Alyssa Horowitz, Mike JacobS, Scott Press, Liza . Voris. CONCOltD~SJS is .Published, ev~ry Thursday by the student body ofUruon College; Carnegie Hall, Seheneetady, New York 12308; .Publications Office:. ehanna PubJications 1 Inc., Box 388, Stcmey t New York 1 (607) 563·352&. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as first class matter. Subscription rate: 35 cents per.copy, $18 per year) delivered anyWhere in the United States. · , CONOORD~SIS subscribes to the College .PresS Service (CPS) and utilizes the College New$ But~au (CNB). · , OfficetelePbone-370-61'55. · SH CH W1 c~ AS YOL FU ICE HOl CHC r-· I 1 ICI I fGoo.:l I!:! SJ Pll

CONOORDIENSIS, October 18, 1984 Page 9 SEBASTIAN INTRODUCES THE CUTS THAT MAKE IT HAPPEN. HA'R .DES\GN I Located on corner of Broadway & Hamilton St. 382-7956- Student Discounts 1983-84 SAT. Scores By State VEOOA.l f MATH AL 467 503 AK 443 471 AZ 469 509 AR 482 521 CA 421 476 co 468 514 CT 436 468 DE 433 469 · FL 423 467 GA 392 430 VERBAL I MATH VERBAl./ P¥Y.TH HI 395 474 MA 429 467 10 480 512 Ml ,461 515 IL 463 518 MN 481 439 IN 410 454 MS 480 512; lA 519 570 MO 469 512 KS 502 549 MT 490 544 KY 479 518 NE 493 548 LA 472 508 NV 442 489 ME 429 463 NH 448 483 MD 429 468 NJ 418 458 -'\\11< NM 487 52i' NY 424 470 NC 395 432 ND 500 554 OH 460 508 OK 484 525 OR 435 472 PA 425 462 Rl 424 461 sc 384 419 -/MAIM SD 520 566 TN 486 523 TX 413 453 LIT 503 542 VT 437 470 VA 428 466 ~ WA 463 505 ~ wv 466 510 . WI 475 532 I WY 489 ·545 I LETTERS Homecoming a Success To the Editor: • We would like to express our enormous thanks to all the students and student 0rganizations who supported Homecoming Weekepd '84. In parti'cular, special thanks to the Homecoming Committee who planned and staffed the entire weekend, and the organizations who sponsored the various weekend events. The spirit and cooperation ·Of the weekend were felt by all. Thanks to all of you, the schedule of events were not only extensive and impressive, but was executed perfectly as well. We appreciate your time and To the Editor: Realizing full well t•hat professors have more to think about than the social lives of their stuclents, I think there should be some exceptions. Specifically, I am upset that so many professors scheduled tests on the Monday and Tuesday following Homecoming. Homecoming is a special time at Union. We are a.school proud of our long heritage and strong efforts to make this a spec- tacular weekend and hope that you enjoyed yourselves as much as we did . .,., Congratulations to all of you who participated in our 5th Annual Homecoming Parade. The floats were w0rks of art and certainly reflected the time and ingenuity put into constructing them. Special congratulations to the winners: Best Overall Float--Davidson; Most Original--Richmond-Webster; Funniest--West; Best Inter- pretation of Theme--North- South-Hickok and Fox. Alsp a special note of thanks to the Concordiensis staff for their full cooperation and Busy Weekend belief in tradition. Homecoming can be considered to be the peak of this spirit, as alumni of the distant and recent past return to campus. Most pe0ple I have discussed this with had at least one major test or paper due immediately following the weekend. Clearly, part of this prablem stems from the fact that Homecoming happened to fall almost directly in the middle of the term, the time usually occuped by mid- terms. assistance in promoting this big fall weekend. We know that a great amount of time and energy went into the special Homecoming insert. The entire Alumni Office Staff has enjoyed working with this year's Student H0mecoming Committee and all of our student volunteers. We are already looking forward to our Homecoming Weekend 85! Sineerely. Edith Eerkowitz Harry Df m.gen '47 Mary Slusarz Bob Bruhn Kathy Mullaney '74 Peter M11hr ·~5 Gail Mund '84 Also, it might be argued that Homecoming is really for alumni. This is probably true, but it is our job to make the alumni welcome. Many people here at Union have parents and siblings who are former Union students, and this is often made into a family weekend. Perhaps all these tJ:iings will be kept in mind next year as Homecoming is fit into the College calendar. Name withheld by request Thanks to Staff Association To the Editor: In the fall of 1983 it became apparent that there were many with them. ,... __ ....... _________ ._ ... __ ...., _______ ,.... important issues which were of concern to staff members on campus and that there seemed to be no way· of dealing with these issues. At that time the Staff Association formed a committee to identify the problems that seemed to be occurring and to come up with some suggestions for dealing I wisb to take this opportunity to thank all of those who served on this committee. ·Members gave up lunch hours, stayed for long hours after their working days were over and worked enthusiastically together doing research, analyzing data and trying to formulate the best possible soluti0ns for the whole Union College Community.· t0 the Director of Personnel with copies to President Morris and Vice-Presidents Hauser and D'Andrea. Whatever the results of this effort, I believe the College should be aware of the real dedication of the staff people to the College and their determination that it will be a great place for all of 'Us to be! SHAVED~ CHOCOLATE WHIPPED CREAM A SCOOP OF YOUR FAVOR\T FLAVOR -~-±----' ICE CREAM Hor CHOCOLATE. I ··r.·· .. ·.· ... ·· : . · .. _ ... · . Fall arrives at Union .. / On September 17, the Staff Association's proposal was sent Sincerely, Yvonne Huxhold, President Union College Staff association

Page 10 OONCORDIENSIS~ October 18, 1981, INTERNSHIPS New York State Assembly Intern Program: 1) Session Intern Program is open to juniors or seniors of any major' who have a strong iHterest in state government and the legislative process. 30 hrs.-wk., January-May, academic credit given. Application deadline: October 26. 2) Graduate Scholars Pre gram· is open to students who are matriculated in or who have completed a graduate degree. Deadline: November 1. White House Fellowship: One-year program in which Fellows serve as special assi•stants to Cabinet Secretaries or senior members of the White House staff. Fellows also participate in extensive education program. Highly competitive. Applications available from President's Commission White House Fellowships, 712 Jackson Place, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20503. Deadline: December 1. Would you like to work in Scandinavia Summer-Fall 1985? The American- Scandinavian Foundation is seeking qualified students for its training program in the five Scandinavian countries: Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. There are over 100 positions for students majoring in Agriculture, Business, Chemistry, Computer Science, Engineering, Food Technology, Forestry, Geothermal Science, Hor- ticulture, Physics. Application fee: $35 at time of application. Applicant should be a full-time student. For more information and application form, specify the exact field you are in- terested in and write to: Exchange Divis,ion of The American-Sea nd ina via n Foundation, 127 East 73rd Street, New York, NY 10021. The Dow Jones Newspaper fund is offering a Newspaper Editing Intern Program for College Juniors. The foundation encourages careers in jour- nalism. If you are interested, contact Tom Engleman, P.O. Box 300, Princeton, NJ 08540 or call (609) 452-2820. SCHOLARSHIPS The National Research Council plans to award ap- proximately 35 Postdoctoral Fellowships for Minorities in a program designed to provide opportunities for continued education and experience in research for American Indians and Alaskan Natives (Eskimo or Aleut), Black Americans, Mexican Americans-Chicanos, and Puerto Ricans. Fellows will be selected from among scientists, engineers, and scholars in the humanities who show greatest promise of future achievement in academic research and scholarship in higher education. The deadline for submission of applications is January 16, 1985. All inquiries concerning application materials and program ad- ministration should be ad- dressed to the Fellowship Office, National R,esearch Council, 2101 Constitution Avenue, Washington, D.C. 20418. CAREER NEWS Special Career Programs for fall 1984, information sessions and career panels are as follows: · Oct. 18 at 7 p.m.- Manufacturers Hanover-NYC bank training program with alumnus Paul Antony in Banquet Room. Oct. 19, 1 p.m.-Careers in Business for Psych majors with Paul Antony in Psych 204. Oct. 23, 7 p.m.-Careers in Communications--speakers include President of McCaffrey Get Clocked at the SDT-Beta Daylight Savings Party Saturday, October 20 Attention Females There will be an informational meeting concerning FORMAL RUSH Sunday, October 21 7:00pm Milano Lounge All Women interested please attend ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE GRADUATE STUDIES PROGRAM Tlze Albany Medical Coll~ge Graduate Studies Program is designed for qualified students motivated toward teaching and investigative careers in the basic sciences. The Program provides the student with a solid back- ground in all aspects of modem scientific study with advanced instntc- tion in the student's area of specialization leading to a degree of Doctor of Philosophy or Master of Science. Requirements Applicants must have a Bachelor's Degree from an accredited college or university and should have taken courses in general and organic chemis- try, general biology and physics. Students applying for admission in the Graduate Studies Program are required to take the Graduate Record Examination prepared and administered by the Educational Testing Service; Box 592, Princeton, New Jersey 08540. Fields Of Study. _________ ...-,:---:::---:--:,---- Anatomy, Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology, Pathology, Pharmacology and Toxicology, Physiology. - Financial Aid A limited number of full tuition scholarships and stipends based on teaching assistantships and research assistantships are available. Other financial assistance can be arranged through the department to which the student applies and through the Medical College Office of Financial Aid. Located in Albany, New York, The Albany Medical College was founded in 1839. In 1873, Albany Medical College united with Union College, the Albany Law School, the Albany College of Phannacy. anti the Dudley Obseroatory, to fonn Union University. Since 1971, the Albany Medical College has also been affiliated with the Hudson-Mohawk Consorlium of Colleges and Universities. For additional infonnation contact: Office of Graduate Studies and Research, Albany Medical College of Union University, 47 New Scotland Avenue, Albany, New York 12208, (518) 445-5253 & McCall (NYC ad agency), Executive Editor at Mademoiselle, Film Production Coordinator for Jalbert P.roductions (NYC), and others in Banquet Room. Oct. 26, 3 p.m.-Public Relations-- Vice President of Computer Vision Jim Baar in CDC, 2nd Floor. CLUB NEWS Newman Theatre Party- Anyone interested in attending Duke Ellington's Sophisticated Ladies, Friday, October 19, at Proctor's Theatre meet in .front of Carnegie at 7: 15 p.m. Half- price tickets are available with a student ID half-'hour before performance. Regular prices are $22, $18.50 and $13. Eucharistic Ministers Workshop--Saturday, October 20, 1-5 at St. John's with Sr. Joan for anyone who wlshes to become a Eucllaristic Minister. See Sr. Joan or call 370-6087. Newma.n Folk Group- Sunday, October 21, 6:30 p.m. meets with Friar Paul in St. John's Church to prepare for 7:30 Mass. New members welcome. E u c h a r i s ti c M.i n i s t e r s Commissioning-Sunday, October21 atthe7:30 p.m. Mass at St. John's for aU former Ministers as well as those who attended the workshop the day before. · Newman Bible Study- Monday, October 22 at 4 p.m. with Sr. Joan in Religious Programs Office, 4th Fl. Carnegie. Newman Club Meeting & Social-Monday, October 22, 8 p.m., 4th Floor Lounge, Car- negie. Tutorial Program-Anyone interested in tutoring Reading one hour a week to primarily second graders of St. John the Evangelist School please contact Peter Fischer 374-3243. SPEAKERS Wednesday, October 24, 4:30 p.m., Strauss Lounge-Bonnie Nasr of the Contact and Resource Center, Beirut, Lebanon, speaking on work with Lebanese youth scarred bv war Due to lack of GOSSIP, \Can We Talk\ will not be published this week. Your gossip is needed!! Please submit any information in a sealed envelope to Box 2577, c/o· CN Editors ACROSS 1 The self 4 G.!. e.g 6 Denude 11 Previously 13 Marine sna•l 15 Prefix: twice 16 Haggle 18 Agave plant 19 Compass point 21 Part of window frame 22 Haul with effort 24 Conjunction 26 Story 28 French for \summer\ 29 Home-run king 31 Amount owed 33 Owner's risk: abbr. 34 Want 36 Below 38 Before noon 40 Stalk 42 Female relative 45 By way. of 47 Mark lefl by wound 49 Ripped 50 Old-time slave 52 Mental image 54 Symbol for sodium 55 Rupees: abbr. 56 Buys back 59 Symbol for tellurium 6t Sarcasm 63 Repast 65 Clayey earth 66 Senior: abbr. 67.Poem · DOWN 1 Recede 2 Japanese dancing girl 3 Preposition 4' Periods of lime 5 Earn 6 Bogged down 7 Prefix: three 8 Skin of fruit 9 Kind of type: abbr. 10 Vegetable 12 River In Siberia 14 River In Africa 17 Merry - Last Week's Answers 20Meril 23 Again: prefix •2-4 Symbol for tantalum 25 Pedal digits 27 Black 30 Seines 32 Ridicule 35 Determines 37Gaseous element 38 Declares 39 Prayer book 41 Manufactured 43 Boxed • 44 Printer's • measure 46 Unknown: abbr. 48 Musical Instruments 51 Great lake 53. Mohammedan noble 57 Blt1er vetch 58 Symbol for tin 60 Before 62 As far as 64 Negative Answers in Next Week 1 s Issue I I ] ~ 1 1 r ( ( ( E I I f I t 3 t v f c I I 3

y, 1. 8 g y e e d OONOORDIENSIS, October 18, 1984 Page 11 and violence. Sponsored by Newman and Protestant Ministries. Thursday, October 25, 3:30 p.m. in Conference Room A- Oxfam Fast Planning Meeting. The Administrative and Engineering Systems Colloquium presents: Dr. Stephen Brenner, Albert Ein- stein College and Montefiore Hospital, University Hospital of the 1980's-...'fhe Changing Milieu, October 18, 1984 at 3:45 p.m. in Room· 312, Bailey Hall, Union College. HELP WANTED NEED MONEY? Come work at the Dutch Hollow Pub! Call either Meserve Platt at 377-9229 or Dave at the Pub X6051. Student off-campus jobs? Student interested in babysitting--regular basis Thursday night, 7-10 for one 3 yr. old. Location-Upper Union area. Please contact 374-9754 after 6 p.m. or weekends. Student interested in housecleaning, several hours 1 or 2 days a week. Ten minutes from campus. Own tran- sportation. Possible cooking. Please contact 372-3095. Need student to do proofreading and some clerical. 10-20 hours a week:-flexible. $4.00-hr. Location off Central Ave. Need own transportation. Please contact Metroland Magazine at 459-5371. Students or Professors, typing done--Scotia area. Please contact 377-4215. Student interested in doing odd jobs, mowing, running errands, etc. plea~e contact Kazyaka Funeral Home, Eastern Ave. at 374-1990 .. Room for rent with kitchen faciiities. Male preferred. · Mt. Pleasant area, Third Ave. (on bus line). Please contact 381- 3995. Need responsible student to babysit for 10-month-old child weekends. Off Nott St. (across from soccer field). Please contact 393-9670; COUNTER PERSONS FOR DUTCHMANS NIGHT. PLEASE CONTACT BETSY AT 377-1045 OR CALL mE DUTCH HOLLOW MANAGER AT 376- 6051. Campus rep to run spring br~ak vacation trip to Daytona Beach. Earn free trip and money. Send resume to College Travel Unlimited, P.O. Box 6063, Station A, Daytona Beach, Florida 32022, or call ( 904) 672- 6955 or-6959. CLASSJFJEDS WRUC oldies record sale Friday from 2\4 p.m. at Car- negie Hall. 45's & LP's at cheap prices. Schenectady Museum-Union College Concert Series presents on Sunday, Oct. 21, New York Chamber soloists performing Bach's Six Brandenberg Concert. If you live in Albany- Columbia-Greene- Rensselaer- Schenectady or Schoharie County, won't you join us for an informational meeting to find out how you can become a Special Olympics Volunteer? Wednesday, October 24, 1984, 7:00 p.m. at the Maywood School, 1979 Central Avenue, in Colonie. For more information plE>ase call 374-1570 or 370-4816. Honeywell is launching its third annual Futurist Awards Competition. The contest asks college students to look into the future and write essays about technological advancements they foresee by the year 2009. This year the number of winning entries . has been in- creased from ten to 30. The ten first-place essays will earn each winner $2;000 and an op- portunity to work for Honeywell next summer. The contest is open to all full- time undergraduate and graduate students at any ac- credited college in the United States. Students are asked to look ahead 25 years and predict developments in two of the following technological areas: electronic commuqications, energy, aerospace, marine systems, biorn.edical technology or computers. A third essay must address the social impact of technological progress. Each essay is limited to 500 words. Completed essays must . be Shooting a commercial at Jackson's Garden early In the fall. Shown here are two photographers filming a woman dressed in fur jacket coming through Kappa Alpha Gate. postmarked no later than Dec. 31,1984. Winners will be notified by Feb. 1, 1985 and will be flown to Minneapolis later that month for the awards ceremonies. The e-ssays will be judged on the basis of feasibility, clarity, creativity and legibility. For more detailed registration information write: Futurist Rules, P.O. Box 2009, 600 South County Road 18, Minneapolis, MN 55426 or call toll free 1-800-328-5111, ex- tension 15?3. Do you need practical marketing experience? Enter the Philip JYiorris Marketing- Communications Competition. For the 16th year, Philip Morris invites students to research any of its non-tobacco products- operations and submit a marketing-communications proposal that could succeed in today's competitive busin!')ss world. Entries due on January 11, 1985. Students interested in entering should write to the Competition Coordinator: Deirdre Waitt, Philip Morris Incorporated, 120 Park A venue, New York, New York, 10017 or call 212-880-4121. The Film Committee presents \Spinal Tap\ on Oct. 19-0ct. 21 at 7, 9, and 11; and \The King of Hearts'' on Oct. 24 at 7 9 and 11. Tickets are avail~bie at Student Box Office for $1. Films are shown in SS016. PERSONALS All personals must be typed and submitted by 4 p.m. every Tuesday to the Concordy office. Forms are available at the Student Box Office. HI ASTRID Just to be MEAN! JB: NICE NOSE, HI!!! FLO-Mama! What can I say? You finally got it ... Now its my turn! Love you, Sue B. WHERE'S THE 409? I have to do my laundry. Nance, What I really want to know is ... how did he get that cold? Sue B- You wanna piece of candy little girl'? R-Good luck this weekend. I'll be thinking of y·ou. It was really nice to hant out and be mellow with you! Feeling ticklish lately? Come by and visit -A- MCI-I miss you even more than I thought I would. The library just isn't the same without you, and I miss Friday lunches. One month down and 8 months to go. I can't wait. ILY- 3d Dear. Paul, I want you, too. Love, Diana Dear John, I want your body! Hugs and Kisses, Rod (The ugly half). Aim, you bitch, (SLAM) I ha·t · · you (SLAP), but we are doll!, a great job of fooling them! And we even have fun sometimes. Love, A Dear Flo-Congrats Doc! ! We love you! ! -The ladies of 700 South Risa-Can we get it together? Your plane or mine? -J To my fellow housemates: You're the best roommates around! But what happens when we all fail out?? Party!! Love always, Afghan Bland HUBS: Don't get all choked up about it. We love you!!!! Hymanl: Let's hear it for biorhythms and H20. Hi! Skyd (Klutzy), Dancing, partying, shopping ... ! don't knQw, maybe you will play in the next game! You are still, and always will be, MFP. Take care and do the Skyd shuffle ... ! love you YFR. P.S. And don't let me buy anything else! Wass: Thanks for the diet soda. Cheer up, it could be worse! ! Love, Deb HiLS: The cause still exists! It's quantity, not quality. Love, Jen and Deb Charlie, we miss you and Jonas so much! We looked for you the next day but couldn't find you. We even brought you water and pita. Next time we're in the desert we'll give you a call. Love, Andy Lor-My house is your house. Thanks for a great summer. I miss living next to you! Love, Aim Pierre Toomay: Sorry for the abortive spelling. You'n· huge!!! Hi!!! SDT! Let's have a good time Saturday night. ARRWW! Let's go for three years? I love you. Meow Nina, Turn the lights out when you're done.-A CONCERNED ROOMMATE DES, We miss you and hope that you're out soon! Love, SDT Is there a doctor in the dorm? YEAH!! Congrats Flo-Your Richmond RA's To all invited Man-Haters: GET PSYCHED FOR TONIGHT!! The women of the West Wing DUAP DUAP DUAP DUAP Sarah; THBM-IWTWR-HPA-PRSM- TSA-NT-GT+HSMSCQAMT- DWA. IJGHTS.! (and socks) TWINKIE-Go home! 310 Fox-I hate to tell you this, but there is no Santa Claus Tridda--Nice h-airdo Safurday night. -Ror Inhabitants of the Zoo-- i ,a!'t; year's third floor Rtchmond The time to party is her· Impromptu in 210 FOX. Tomorrow night at 9:00. B.Y.O.B.-An occasional dacquiri may be found. P.S. No microscopic,' ... r· .led animals, who multiply by fission allowed! COME ONE, COME ALL TO ARE:T On Friday, October 26th The Women of the Glee Club wi II be struttin' their stuff in a variety of acts ranging from comedy to popular music Come see what theJL can do. And you thought they just sang in Latini

Page 12 CONOORDIENSIS, October 18, 1984 Upstate Amtrak Fares The Rise. Fall & Rise of SA.T. Scores >~..JUitf.t ,, 14•'\\ ••• 525 525 500 502 '·500 475 472 467 468 471 476 . 475· Have Now Decreased 466 450 450 425 431 424 426 425 426 425 400 Math Verbal .400 Starting October 1, Amtrak ~ith t~ree daily trains in each 1962-63 1975-76 1980.-81 1981-82 1982-83 1983-84 1962-63 1975-76 1980-81 1981-82 1982-63 1983-84 passengers travelmg between Albany-Rensselaer, Niagara Falls, N.Y. and intermediate stops were able to travel round trip for $5 more than the one- way fare. The past one-way rail fare between Albany-Rensselaer and Niagara Falls was $52.00 and the round-trip excursion fare, $77.00. Under the new fare plan, the round-trip cost will be $57.00, or only $5 more than the one-way fare--a savings of nearly 26 percent. Also affected by the special round-trip fare plan are the seven intermediate stations between Albany-Renssalaer and Niagara Falls: Schenec- tady, Amsterdam, Utiea, Rome, Syracuse, Rochester and Buffalo (both Depew and Exchange Street stations). Where regular round-trip ex- cursion fares are less than the special fare, as between many of these city pairs, the lower fare prevails. Amtrak serves the Niagara Falls-Albany-Rensselaer route dtrecbon. Between Buffalo and Albany-Rensselaer, there is a fourth frequency. Several of the daily trains serving upstate New York feature Amtrak's futuristic Turboliners, while others have comfortable, popular Amfleet coaches. All trains offer light meal and beverage service, while the New York-Chicago Lake Shore Limited offers a full-service dining car in ad- dition to lounge car and sleeping car service. Tickets under the special fare plan are available for sale through May 31, 1985. All trips under the plan must be com- pleted within 30 days of coin- mencement of travel. The special fares are not valid on some holidays. For information on Amtrak's upstate New York service and Amtrak intercity passenger train service nationwide, call Amtrak toll free at 1-800-USA- RAIL, or contact an Amtrak authorized tr~vel agent. Mf1NHf\t~'\fiN . - ~)t(~IH4~~rE 605 UniQD Street · JOIN US FOR SUNDAY BRU'NCH 11 A.M.- 3 P •. M. OPEN 1 DAYS A WEEK LUNCH-DINNER-FINGER fOODS Serving 11 :30 am-1 :00 am ·YEARBOOK. LAY-OUT MEETING TODAY- Thurs. Oct. 18th 7:30 · Yearbook Office (4th floor Carnegie) Come and learn how to do lay-out. 2nd Annual Fall Student PHONATHON Is your calculator in the same class you are? Wed. Nov. 7 & Thurs. Nov. 8 5:30-9:30 pm Carnegie Banquet Room • Move up to the Tl-66. The easy 512 step programmable. You're into higher math and your old calculator helped get you there. But now its time for something more. The TI-66 from Texas Instruments. The TI-66 offers full programming power and flexibility so you can solve complex and repetitive math problems quickly, easily and with fewer keystrokes than you thought possible. Its 512 merged pro- gram steps and over 170 built-in scientific, engineering and statistical functions make for powerful program- ming. And the sleek, streamlined design makes for easy use. Its Algebraic Operating System makes it easy on your brain by allowing you to key in problems as they are written, left to right. And a 10-digit angled Liquid Crystal Display not on:ly makes it easy on your eyes but provides alphanumeric notation of your program steps so you can make easy modifications as you go along. There are large, readable keys for your fingers, and an easy-to-follow guidebook so you shouldn't get confused. And last, but certainly not least, at a suggested retail of $69.95, there's a price that's easy on your pocketbook. All in all, if we made the TI-66 pro- grammable calculator any easier to use, it,.,Wddl~., INSTRUMENTS Creating useful products and §~rvices {or_ypu~ _ Di,nner 5:30 Calling Begins 6:30 Sign up sheets posted in residence halls RSVP Annual Fund Office By Nov. 5 with your team- x6174 PRIZES, FUN, FOOD . <Ho a team- HURRY! 1st come, 1st serve basis - - - Br 31 w chin Hon nigh also Coli Carr sper duri perf moe Nat only get t e I l\m (\Y1 and bloo Br scio tellil soci1 capi Wall thro sacr His anec depe crov mat1 own the < He stor) find SOml This N In SilVI the Tue nigt: S.E. of 1 tot a eve1 som s.: one folio Else prot hare Dav Roll Roll gooc at c1 drur voca Bin a Jag~ Ar was

GONOORDIENSIS, October 18, 1984 Page 19 Brenner at Colonie . • • Comedy Flies By DAPHNE CHIGAS and GAYLE ROSENFELD While Union was busy wat- ching the fireworks display for Hornecoming last Saturday night, similar fireworks were also going off at the Colonie Coliseum tn the form of Comedian David Brenner. He spent the good part ·Of an hour during this one night or:~ly performance making a mockery of such institutions as National Geographic (\The only dirty magazine he could get his har:~ds on as a kid\) television reporters 1 \momos\), and motherhood (''You talk to them on the phone and they hear your eyes are bloodshot\). No subject sacred formance · kept the crowd forever waiting for the next word, the next punchline. One could .not dose off even if he wanted to for he would then find himself lost the next second. Brenner is quick crisp, and · flawless at his craft. He strolled about the circular Colisetim stage with an unrestrained energy. Firmly attached to the microphone (not to mention the microphone stand he took a lilting to) his pent Up actions proved consistant with his energetic story telling. The man is truly a feisty perforqler and propels this trait to the audience. , THE. ARTS Brenner's \stream of con- sciousness\ style of story telling . covered the garnet of society. From weathermen to capital punishment, from Walter Cronkite to an- thropology no subject was sacred in this ~an's joke book. His mind. was filled with anecdotes for any occasion depending on not only the crowd's reaction to his material, but also on where his own tho'ughts wandered during the course of the evening. The near' sell-out crowd, although composed of mostly young couples, also had its share of other age groups. Apparently, Brenner appeals to all ages. His appeal transcends that of only The Tonight Show crowd. The Pilobolus Dance Theatre performed at Proctor's last Friday, October 12. An added treat for the · evening was the music of s.inger Karen Saunders. Her raspy and often childlike voice is reminiscent of the so-called typical Broadway musical songstress; She is a capable performer who threw out a joke or t:wo of her own during her 40 . . Dancers Played Proctor's He would no sooner begin _one story before the audience would find him talking about something entirely unrelated. This ad lib manner of per- , minute performance. Her repertoire included The Pointer Sisters' \It's Raining Men,\ Barbara Streisand's classic \Pe~P.le and . a toe tapping rendition of Gershwin's \The Man I Love.\ She truly com- plemented Brenner's per- formance. New Wave Band Rcx:ks Pub By ERIC LITMAN Staff In every dark cloud there is a silver lining. Without question the silver lining in last Tuesday's ''non-alcoholic\ night at the pub was the band S.E.P. For the twenty-five or so of us who didn't mind tee- totaling it for a Tuesday evening, we were all treated to some very good music. S.E.P.-which according to one of the band's most loyal followers stands for Someone Else's Problem-present~d no probfem at all as they played hard driving cover versions of David Bowie, INXS, and the Rolling Stones. In fact, the Rolling Stones present a very good example, as SEP is best at combining the solid boom of drums and bass guitar with the vocals of lead singer Dave Binacci-sEP's aspiring Mick Jagger. Not Standard Fare Among the pleasant surprises was that they have not sue- cumbed to the temptation to play pop junk; the songs they chose were definitely not your standard 92-FL Y fare. Stylistically, they strike a balance by playing the kind of new wave stuff that will have a broad appeal as evidenced most clearly by their very convincing renditions of the Psychedelic Furs and Pink Floyd. My only bit of criticism would be that SEP does have to im- prove 'their transition between songs. They lost both valuable momentum and the crowd's enthusiasm during the long intervals between songs. Overall however, there is nothing about SEP that a few more practice sessions and performances wouldn't iron out. In fact, I can only hope that Union students will be treated to just that: more SEP concerts. SEP is Steve· Kling, bass guitar; Mike Mahoney, electric guitar; Nick Moran, electric guitar; Dav:e Binacci, lead vocals; Mark Steingessner, keyboards and synthesizer; and Doug Wadsworth, drums. BY JODI L. ISRAEL and ALYSSA HOROWITZ ' Staff On October 12 Proctor's Theatre presented the Pilobolus Dance Theatre. They are a most unusual dance company, and even their name sets them apart: Philobolus is a genus of phototropic fungi. Now in their 13th year, they are known for their energy, creativity, and humor. Indeed, all three of these aspects were obvious, even to such laymen as our- selves. Their performance was in three acts with the first and last act being old vavorites, and the second act a mix of in- novative teamwork, a solo,and a duet. The duet was a first performance for the company. The first selection, entitled, \Molly's Not Dead,\ was danced by the six primary dancers of the company. One of the original composers of the music for this piece, Walt Michael, accompanied the dancers with his newly formed trio. Not knowing what to ex- pect, the bright costumes and lively music came as a pleasant surprise. The flexibility of the dancers, and the elegant shapes they proceeded to form came as a shock. They worked in three pairs of two, two pairs were male-female, and the third pair was male-male. The latter pair served to mimic the actions of their qual sex counterparts. Tfie male-feamale pair seemed to be - of one body almost like the continuous flow of an electric current or an ocean wave. The music served to punctuate any breaks in the movement esP,ecially those breaks within the male-male pair. Because Capital Repertory Company, the area's only fully professional resident Equity theatre, will be offering half price, \student rush\ tickets on an availability basis at a-u performances during the 6-play, 1985-85 season. These tickets are offered half an hour prior to curtain to all full time students with valid i.d.'s. Although no reservations are accepted, students may ca II the Capital Rep box office at 462-4534 to check on ticket availability. Half price tickets are only available at Capital Rep's home, the Market Theatre, 111 North Pearl Street in downtown Albany. that pair was mimicking the actions of their colinterparts, their movements were made to be fu11py and provoking to the audience. The act was 25 minutes in duration and served as a perfect opening for the troupe. The second act was the longest of the three due to the fact that it was danced in three pieces. The first dance was entitled \Bonsai\ and was first performed in 1979. In this act there were two sets of two, one male and one female per pair. The lighting was very dim during this act and their costumes were flesh colored so occasionally it was difficult to distinguish their actions. Another problem with this dance .was that much of the action took place on the floor with the dancers in prone positions. Unless one was above the stage, seeing their movements was impossible. The music for this act was very pleasant with a Japanese flute and something that sounded like an African drum lulling the audience to appreciate the slowness of the movements. The second part of this act was a solo performed by Moses Pendleton, one of the original founders of Pilobolus. The title of the solo was \Momix\ which is also the name of his new, offshoot dance company. Mr. Pendleton is amazingly flexible and several times looked as if he was made of rubber. He also incorporated mime into this act. In previous years \Momix\ was improvised each night but apparently what we saw is what the solo has become. The final piece in the act was a duet entitled, \Tartan's Resurrection.\ The two men who danced this duet are also involved in atther offshoot of the group entitled \Crowsnest.\ This was a very slapstick dance reminiscent of \The 3 Stooges.\ It was this act, due to the slapstick nature of it, as well as their humorous costumes, that was so popular with the numerous children in the audience. For most of the act, the dancers acted as magnets with both attracting and .repelling forces. This was en- joyable to watch, but as this was the longest part of act two, it became tedious. Act three was another old favorite entitled \Day Two.\ Much of the music was writ- ten by The Talking Heads and David Byrne. In keeping with the unconventionality of the music, the costumes were equally unconventional. All six dancers, four male and two female, wore flesh colored dance belts around the lower part of their bodies. At first the dancers acted separately, but then joined together in twos, threes and sixes. They in- tegrated wild gymnastic movements with explosive energy. The only trouble with this act was that it followed the very long second act and a 15 minute intermission. As amazing as the act was, it became long rather quickly. In keeping with their reputation, their final curtain call was unlike anything else. They slicked the stage with water and the dancers proceeded to slide across in crazy positions. Their energy, ingenuity, and genuine lov;~ of movement made them more than worthwhile to watch. If you ever have a cnance to see them, indulge! There -are still openings for the Winter, 1985 term in Israel. This program· is a unique ·blend of study and work on a Kibbutz. The cost is similar to a term spent on campus. Anyone interested in the program should contact Joan Freeman in the Terms Abroad Office, HU211.

Page 14 OONOORDIENSIS, Octo~er 18, 1981,. . ' THE ARTS Pipers 'Perform By KIMBERLY HANCOCK Staff Homecoming is a time when our alumni gather for a glimpse of which traditions have been upheld at Union, and what . changes have been made. This year our homecoming crowd was greeted by the traditional sounds .of the Dutch Pipers performing, among other selections, our alma :mater, \Song to Old Union.\ , Piper performances included last year's \bathroom tour\ -where the Pipers toured the campus bathrooms during Camp Union, and the im- promptu singing of slightly risque songs during Saturday's fireworks . ''I joined the Pipers because I enjoy singing and they are very serious about their music,\ admits freshman Piper Mark Hutchins, \but we also have a lot of fun.\ Unior~'s Men's and Women's Glee Clubs performed during Homecoming Weekend last Saturday night During Homecoming the Dutch Pipers, a twelve-man singing group, performed three concerts, the first of which was at the pep rally. On Saturday, the Pipers gave the alumni yet another chance to reminisce as they performed selections in- cluding \Loch Lomond\ and \Home Sweet Home\ on the stairs of both Lamont House and Carnegie Hall. The Piper's publicity is mainly handled· through the Alumni council, although the news of the group's ta1ent has become widespread throughout surrounding colleges. Recent invitations for the Pipers in- chide singing at Smith . and Wells colleges as well as at numerous other functions. Future goals for the Pipers include singing the Star. Spangled Banner at an up- coming football game and possibly recording a sequel album of Piper music. Glee Clubs Sing Together ••• Concert Given at Chapel B' MICKEY BRADLEY Staff The Union College Men's and Women's Glee Clubs added their share to the Homecoming festivities Saturday night, with their first concert of the year. However this \first concert\ wasn't really a concert at all, as director Hugh Wilson was quick to point out at the outset of the performance. He called it more of a \preview of things to come\ a disclaimer based on the fact that the groups have had a relatively short time to rehearse (about three weeks), and are still expanding their repetoire. Despite this, the Glee Clubs provided forty-five minutes of fine, on-target singing and impressive range and expression. The performance began with Handel's '\Music Spread Thy Voice Around\ which featured soloist Ann Gould. The tune was a fine blend of both sections (male and female) and the distinct seven-part harmony was well-timed and well- conducted. Wilson, who has been conducting the Glee Club for twenty-three years now, maintained smooth control throughout the evening, leading his group with just the right ptmctuation and taking them through a wide variety of emotional inflections. That was particularly evident on this piece. Though· the program con- tained a healthy number of joint performances by both the Men's and Women's Glee Clubs, each were allowed several tunes on its own. The women's rendition of Zoltan Kodaly's \Ave Maria\ was an aural delight, with the sopranos gently highlighting their alto counterparts without overwhelming them. So too was their trilogy of \Faires 1 Song- The Four Sweet Months- Summer Aga'in\ by Ernst Krenek, which spanned a range of moods, from its syncopated opening to its courtly con- clusion. The men, too, had their shining moments, none more bright than \Vive L' Amour\ a traditional American song. The piece began with Ken Budka's lively baritone abruptly soloing the first verse, before the rest of the group kicked in with hale and hearty four-part harmony on the chorus, full of swaggering male camaraderie. The song was irrestibly catchy and it gave each member a real workout, including Wilson who kept the fast pace adrenalized, without pushing it too far over the top. Traditionally, the Homecoming Concert ended with the a capella \Union College Medley\ in which Glee Club Alumni were invited to join the group onstage. Many past members did (some of whom graduated as early as 1947) and despite their large number and years of absence from singing with the club, the medley was ''H . '' t N tt air a. · o By CHRISTINE TELESCA Staff The Social Committee presented the movie \Hair\ on Thursday, O<;tober 11, outside in front of the Nott Memorial. Originally scheduled to begin at 8:00 p.m. the presentation ran into some production dif- ficulties. Due to unexpected winds the movie screen stan- ding in the middle of the soccer field became unsteady and fell down. The organizers con- sequently phoned security who were forced to actually nail the screen into the ground. By this time the crowd grew to about 65 people. Utilizing the extra time some ran over to Carnegie Hall and brought some popcorn from the Pizza Pub while others sent their roommates home to grabsome warm sweatshirts, as it was becoming quite chilly. There were some who had anticipated the weather and came prepared with their blankets, while others were quite comfortable with their Molsons. When the Movie finally began, at approximately 8:30 p.m., everyone took their places on the hill. It was evident some had already seen this movie as half the audience sang along with the characters. Taking place in the late sixties during the Vietnam War \Hair's\ basic themes were peace, love and freedom. The movie portrayed the story of a young country man's first few days in Manhattan where he had come to join the armed forces. After befriending a group of hipp·ie!S who introduced him to the life of freedom and ·taught him to .go for what he wants the man enlists. The poignant ending was ironic and sad as one of the hippies' sacrifices his life fighting for a cause in which he did not believe all for friend- ship. In spite of the technical difficulties \Hair\ provided an enjoyable night for all. .. very successful. It started a bit disjointed, but soon all parts fell into place and ·wnson steadily built them up into a crescendo of thundering harmony. As the notes filled Memorial Chapel with resounding intensity, Wilson turned to the audience, inviting them to stand and join in with the Alma Mater. The entire evening was an informal one, with Wilson talking to the audience between each piece, introducing the song, the soloists, and the ac- companist (Elinore.Farnum on ·organ aHd piano) with a good- humored friendliness that relaxed both the group and the audience. Though he considers the performance to have been a success, he hopes to be more ·prepared for the Men's Glee Club upcoming concert on October 27 at Wells, College. Following that, both groups will be at WPI to perform there with its Glee Clubs on November 2. The groups will, no doubt, be in top form by then, but Satur- day's treat was so entertaining itself, that one could only leave impressed by what can be accomplished in three short weeks. When originally founded in 1955, the Pipers acted in con- junction with the Glee Club, but was granted independant status in 1962. In the early 1970's, just after the release of their only album entitled \The Sons of Union Sing\ students lost in- terest' in the group and the Pipers died. In 1982, interest in the group and the type of music they performed was once again aroused and the Pipers were revived. The Pipers perform from a diverse repertoire which ranges from Barbershop and traditional music to popular tunes such as Billy Joel's \Longest Time\ which was one of last year's selections. The Pipers are an entirely student run organization which performs mainly at alumni functions and at other schools and tmiversities. Along with the seriousness of practicing two times a week to prepare for their concerts; the Pipers find time to have a lot of fun. \We're out to have a good time,\ stated Ken Budka, this year's Piper manager; \We're all a bunch of hams! \ Among tbe more amusing Coming to Proctor's . Musical' arrangements, as well as the actual songs they sing, are chosen by the mem- bers of the Pipers. The students, which include five freshman, five sophomores and two juniors, are aided in their selection by faculty advisor Dean Massa, who sung for the Yellowjackets of the University of Rochester, a group very much like the Pipers. The musical direction for the group is done by sophomore Ken Budka, who has no real ex- perience with directing other than his violin and piano playing years through grade school. 'The Pipers are planning a busy year, so if you. missed them at Homecoming, look for them in the upcoming months. And remember, if one morning you struggle to the bathroom after a long night of partying only to find twelve · guys in tuxedos singing a_way in your shower-you are witnessing the Dutch Pipers: in concert. • • -Duke Ellington's Sophisticated ladies: Friday, October 19, 2 and 8 p.m.i Saturday, October 20,8 p.m. Tickets are $22,$18.50,$13. -. Gabe Kaplan in Groucho: Sunday, October 28, 7 p.m. Tickets are $18, $15.50, $11. -Judy Collins in Concert: Thursday, October 25, 8 p.m. Tickets are $13 and $10 .. -. 'Night Mother: Friday, Odgber 26, 8 p.m. Tickets are $16, $13.50, $9.50. -Romeo and Juliet: Tuesday, October 30, 8 p.m. Tickets are $12.50, $10.50, and $7.50. The Ushers played at the P'ub last Thursday night. The concert was sponsored by the Social Committee after the showing of \Hair.\ r

ry ' rk a is as at ~ir ry de a ed in \Deepening U.S. support for authoritarian rule .in Central America can only speed this country along the path to catastrophe.\ So writes the noted political scientist Louis Rene Beres in his newest study of U.S. foreign policy, Reason and Realpolitik: U.S. Foreign Policy and World Order. Arguing that this wrong-headed commitment to certain Central Amer'i:can regimes, coupled with an apparent dedication to an apocalyptic nuclear arms race, demonstrates the need for a dear assessment of what has gone wrong--an assessment that identifies what now must be done to insure survival. Reason ·and Realpolitik meets this need. Described by Elie Wiesel as a ''brilliant, provocative, important volume,\ Professor Beres's analyses of this nation's self-defeating approach to world affairs is must reading for all wno would seek to understand the bases of a durable and just peace. Featured in Publishers Weekly (May 1 L 1984} it explains. the futility of current American pol·icies with compelling elegance and points the way to a more secure and dignified fl:Jture. CONCORDIENSIS. October 18, 1984 Page 15 The UNION COLLEGE GAMI'NG Is there an MBA in your future? LEARN MORE ABOUT • ASSOCI A liON . will be holding its third annua I ' Fall AD&D Tournament on Friday and Satu~day, October 26 and 27. Preregistration is requested. For more i·n- formation or to register contact Larry Wilder (x6677). Amos Tuck School at Dartmouth College College Seniors are invited to experience a day at Tuck this Fall • Sit in on first and o Tour Tuck's excep· second year classes tiona! facilities \ Talk with studeflts • Meet with an. • Discuss admissions, Admissions Officer cwrriculum, place· • Be Tuck's guest for men!, financial acid breakfast and lunch For more details, check with your campus Placement Office or call Tuck Admissions Office (6031646·3162 VISIT The Internationally Acclaimed Alternate Dining Experience on Campus THE AMAZING (STUPENDOUS) 'ROCK-N-ROLL PIZZA PUB Featuring.: Damn Awesome Pizza Scrumptious Subs Famous Cookies Popcorn Etc ... . . ~ THIS WEEK'S SPECIAL Buy one topping, get one free! Prerequisite for · C~adJaJI. Majors. I· VOTE ON NOV. 6 ' ' ,, : .. ' r /' Molson Golden.'l~hat~~··M .IICUI. --- ae&X~ AVAILA,BLE AT THE DUTCH HqLLOW PUB. The finest ale brewed and bottled in Canada, Imported by Martlet Importing Co., Inc., Great Neck, N11Y. © 1982. ' f } :f Mountebanks Presents ,... r,-. ,.. ~- Q_Jr r,.. 2J QJ Jacques Brei Is Alive and Well and living in Paris Nov. 8, 9, 10 Nov. 13-17 at 8 pm in the Nott Tickets $3--Students $4--Faculty $5--General Public Students Interested In RELAXATION Exercises Call Counseling Center )( 6161

(/) ·;: 0 > Ill .~ ..J >- .c 2 0 .c: a. Page 16 CONOORDIENSIS, October 18~ 1984 THE ARTS On Friday, October 12, Jodi Cohen (84) ac- companied by Phil Spoor on piano, performed at the first Coffeehouse of the term. Jodi, a veteran of Cabaret, sang a mixture of classic, pop, and show tunes. The audience was an enthusiastic combination of students, faculty and returning alwmni. Ph.il Spoor also per- formed a few pieces on guitar. Be sure to catch the next Coffeehouse on November 9 at 8:30p.m. wl:len Mark Rabin will perf.orm his upbeat original music. Anyone interested in being a part of this unique, rewarding ac- tivity, please contact Lisa Coppola at Box 467 or see Mrs. Marra at Student Activities. N aoumo:ff Gives Recital By LINDA RAFFAELE Arts Editor Renowned pianist Emile Nauomoff opened the Schenectady Musewn-Union College Concert Series on Monday night at Memorial Chapel with a thoroughly en- chanting recital featuring Schubert's Sonata in B-Flat Major, Op. Posth. D. 960, Naoumoff's own Impasse, Bach's Italian Concerto in F- Major, and Suite from L'Oiseau de feu (The Firebird) by Stravinsky, arranged by Naoumoff. From first note to last, Naoumoff held the filled chapel in awe of his capabilities. At the tender age of 22, Naoumoff has performed throughout Europe making concerto appearances with the Bulgarian Philharmonic in Sofia, the East Berlin Sym- phony Orchestra, the Orchestra of the Bolshoi Opera in Moscow, the Lamoreux Orchestra in Paris, and the Halle Orchestra in Magdeburg. Schubert. Naoumoff's execution was not at all mechanical; the piece was played most romantically. The artist's love of music was evidenced throughout the sonata and in- deed throughout the recital. The audience was mesmerized as he seemingly watched the music dance in front of him. He became fierce when the music was fierce; he smiled when it turned playful. It was· most interesting to watch his faci~ll expressions reflect the changing attitudes of the notes. Naoumoff's. second piece was his own Impasse, which he composed in 1982. It was a very clever piece in which he took advantage of the enchanting quality of the upper half of the keyboard. The piece started out slow andrythmic and built up to a frenzied climax. It was as if something trapped inside the piece was finally let loose to run free. It then slowed back down to its original pace before the exciting finish which brought instantaneous applause and cheers from the crowd. give works like the first movement of this Bach concerto his own interpretation. Finally, for his last piece, Naoumoff played the Suite from L'Oiseau de feu .(The Firebird) by Stravinsky, arranged by Naoumoff. The first word that comes to mind to describe Naoumoff's version of this piece is electric. Naoumoff himself described the piece as \a musical inferno\ and it cer- tainly was. The opening section began with an incredible timber of notes that made the piano and seemingly the whole chapel vibrate. In contrast, the second section was soft and sweetly melodic. From where I was sitting, I could not see his hands striking the notes, and with the way he closed his eyes and swayedslowly back and forth to the music in'the second section he seemed to just be sitting there enjoying it instead of creating it, too. The last section resumed the resilliance of the first section for a dynamic finish. Overall, the recital was very memorable. It is hard to believe that Naoumoff is only twenty- two. His accomplishments far exceed his years. Those who took advantage of this distinguished pianist's ap- pearance at Union could not have been disappointed. 3 3 Concert Reviewed By JENNIFER B. PASTON Staff Mozart's Divertimento in D ·major, K does not even have _one. On the stage at Proctor's Instead it consists of three Theatre last Tuesday night wa.s movements and is, in fact, a an ensemble of true musical symphony for strings alone. genius. This was a given, the This was a perfect selection for Academy of St. Martin in the the . Academy as the first Fields being what it is. The movement is a virtuoso piece sixteen player string orchestra for violins. The last movement performed pieces by Mozart, though not a rondo, is in a Shostakovich, and concluded particularly light style and the program with Vivaldi's The again, beautifully interpreted Four Seasons. Iona Brown, by the orchestra. The director of the orchestra and - Shostakovich symphony is a soloist, performed the violin poignanj, bitter, and driven solos which brought her world piece. The musicians had no renown when she recorded difficulty in making the tran- them in 1974. sition and were equally as Some of London's leading impressive. orchestra players founded the Even the neophyte listener Academy in 1959 as a small, could appreciate the Academy's conductorless string group in interpretation of The Four the forefront of the 1950's Seasons. One did not need baroque revivat The Academy, musical knowledge to hear the which previously played all its' birds,. fountains, winds, and concerts at the Church of Saint storms. Each concerto was Martin in the Fields in more inspiring than the one that Trafalgar Square, has toured preceded it. The piece proceded extensively throughout the from the pastoral spring to a world. They ar.e indeed a unique winter quivering with trills. group; these 'refugees from the Iona Brown's intensity in conductor' prefer a string- performing the solos quartet style of interpretation significantly enhanced the and are directed from the front performance. Overall it was desk of violins. exactly what one would expect; A Divertimento unusually brilliant works performed. by contains two minuets, yet skilled artists. Most enjoyable. . Ton SO ~I.Albums 2-2 BIIUCI:SPRINGSTml IJ Bomb. doc U.S.A. -cw.~u•• J·< HUEYL£WISANDTIIE 4l NEWS Spono-<lv)U'' •• , nMA11lRH£R l'lrMio Don=- C'.piu>l\ 5·5 111ECIJIS H...-.Cit)o-l'l<Ja..i luyiorn\ 13 23 6•6 CYIIDfUIIl'm 31 Sloo'oSoU.....J-PonnwalS\ 7•9 IUIJOiti.ESa.S 2 1100BdA#Pio=-Coi.Nia 17 10\& IDIIHWAI!t No&akcs-EMI-Aanaicl• n•:n 111ETIM£ I\' Clamc..J.-WB 12•1711ll.YIOOI. Rd>d YcU-o.,..JA- lNI liiEflXIC -.MCA II 2 14·1611ATT 15 OucoflheCdla-Azlmc'• 1l·7 IJOHII.IIICIIIE 44 C..\SJowJ:Jow.,_. 16·uTAUQ!jQiftAII5 S..,Mald,as..w-s.. 17•20 EDIIII:AHD111E atUISII!S ~-Sccoi~ 18•!'5 lliUYSQUI!R Si&noofLiFc-Copml 6 19·30 CfiiC.\00 15 OUcogo 17 -Full Mooo/WB\ lO•JJ GIIOS11IUSTERS 11 Sou:nd:tra& ... Atut~'' 21·18 SCANDAL 8 Th Warrior-Columbia' 12'1~ lll£1lCKSONS II Viaocy-••• 23•4JB.INAIW!AAIA 2 &nananm.- Loodoo 24•24 'IWlmDSlS!ER 8 Scay\'--~ 2Y<>lll1lNMA!DEN p..,..slaYc-Copml :16•10 ll.lllHlOI!!I 8 BrooJdnrHcooo-Gd!ao• 2:>-JHTI.'IIEIIAYVAUGIIAH II Couldn\S<ond !hoW .C...- F;.i: :ZS•'QIJWUU!OSS SwqcA\'Y-RCA :1!1-:llliiODSIIWMT 11 c...o..!!qe- \XIB\ .!D•...,TIIEWOMAHIHRf.D Soundlmdo-\\\\\' l1'32SIIEIIA L ThcGJ.mon,. Ufe- WB 6 J:I\ODOitMASIBIIII:II C...WilhoocO...-Go«u. Jl•261110 Thet..cfnl.lne- WB• 8 ,. • .., MIGIIIRAH!lER 19 . Midni,sbcMxlnen-MCA•• Thf ROUJNG STONE Aib•M Chari 11 hsmd 111 i1 tt11ti11a~a1 triiiiOfiWIJl pbo~tt l11f'tll1 of ..Jb,., s.ks \' r«it·Mntltd JIIWts Ntw mrr~rJ Mft ;;,JittmJ lty -Q Rumlnrp mtrfml pt.muJtJ {r•rlu•J••8. rtdts fiVff l a.JJratr} b] tht Rt~Jt,g·llltiiJIIf'J AJs«t.tiiVtt of A\'tf\tra ,, rJt•tifitJ Wflh • Jo•h/r iiJitf'tlit (••) Rrmttl1 rmifirti piJ ( 1.ks \\\ )011,000} Clff'• ? \U~ttk 11Jttm6 (• }. ~5·27 YAH 1WD1 33 1934-WB•• 36·46 KRO«US 2 TheBUu-AMo J7•ll Q(JI!TRIOT ~J Metdli<o.hh· Pah.JCBS'• ~·25 PEIERWOU' 6 Li&faOut- e.!!.....,. ~n NEII.IlWIOND ~-CIS 40-ll'IIOIIIW!.EY Allll1111: 2 WAJI.ElltS l.qcnd- Llood 4N!>IIICKLIMES a.&criooo- Moroooo 2 G•I9ZZ'IOP 72 ~-wa-. <tNJ IJ.VISCilSld.lo ·n G>oclbyeCmdWodd- ~ 44'41 UJitiS£TIIUCIOHGIIAM 2 Go'-ne-Eldon 1 Mbn 45'47 CORt\' HART n..orr--e.n-Am<~ 46·36llfOMPSO!ITWI!<S 2l lmod..Gap-luu~· 4N!>LOOIIHD ·~ow--RCA 48\0BIUYOCUN Sudd..u,- JM!Aiu\ 4!1- R.E.M. 19 ~-LR.S. 50·34 UURABRJ.NIGAH Sdlc..-J-!ubnoc\ \ Nauomoff began studying piano at the age of five. At six, he was composing. He had his first piano concerto published when he was ten. In 1981, his compositions were accepted by the publisher Schott in Mainz, Germany, making him the youngest composer ever ac- cepted by this distinguished firm. He studied for eight years with the late Nadia Boulanger of the American Conservatory of Music in Paris. He also studied conducting with Pierre Dervaux for two years. He has received numerous awards for his compositions. After a twenty minute in- termission, Naoumoff began the second half of the recital with Bach's Italian Concerto in F- Major in celebration of the Bach Tercentenary. He seemed to have lost some of his original concentration in the beginning of the piece, but he regained composure in the second movement. The third movement was especially good. Compared to the interpretations of other pianists the first movement was played very fast. However, it should be noted that Bach did not designate a specific tempo for the first movement; it is to be left to the discretion of the pianist. In discussing this matter with Naoumoff after the recital, I found that he does not like to listen to the renditions of others too . often. He prefers to \The Idol\ Explained Naoumoff opened the per- formance with the Sonata in B- Flat Major by Schubert. Melodic and easily flowing, it served as a very nice opening piece. The first movement was especially well-done. It reminded one of Arthur Schnabel's rendition · of Festival of Nations The 13th annual Festival of Nations will be held Sunday, November 11, 1984 at the Empire State Plaza. This popular indoor festival, featuring the cultural and ethnic heritages of the many nations represented in the area, is highlighted by craft booths and continuous performances on the stage of the Empire State Plaza Convention Center. The nations represented are: Argentina, Armenia, China, French Canada, Germany, Great Britain, Greece., Hungary, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Lithuania, Poland, Russia, Scandinavia, Syria, Ukraine and the United States. Admission prices for this event remain the same as they haveformany years: $2foradults, $1 for children and free to children under 5, and the parking is free. Hours, 12 noon to 6 p.m. By CARRIE CERRONE Staff The Idol, Union's literary magazine was founded in 1910, and ranks among the five oldest continuing college or university publications along with North American Review ( 1815) of University of Northern Iowa; Sequoia ( 1891) of Stanford University; Harvard Magazine (1898) of Harvard University; and South Atlantic Quarterly (1902) of Duke University, according to Ulrich's biter· national Periodicals Directory. The Idol will be published once each term during the 1984- 1985 academic year. The first issue will be an evolutionary poetry anthology taken from bound archive Idols of past years. The following two editions will feature current student material including poetry, short stories, drawings, and sketches. At the time of its publication, the Idol will be distributed, completely free of charge~ to Union Colle~e students and faculty. - The Idol is considered to be \an artistic community of creative people\ by its editor, Lance Humphrey, and en- thusiastic staff. The magazine provides a relax:ed forum for the discussion of personal works and criticisms, thereby, serving as \an outlet for creativity\ and \artistic consciousness group,\ as suggested by member Franklin Schneider. \The periodical is part of the American Poets AssoCiation. Although the Idol is \seeking additional funding,'' it has managed to sponsor, and will continue to be involved in facilitating, a number of literature-related activities. Educating Rita was shown earlier in th~ term compliments of the literary magazine. The Idol received Frederick Buechner, a Well published and reviewed novelist for an in· formal luncheon discussion, concerning his works, on Wednesday October 17, at Slapshots. The staff also plans to work, in conjunction with the English department, on the reception for David Matlin, who will provide a poetry reading and lecture on Wednesday November 14. Anyone interested in sub- mitting material for publication consideration should contact either Lance Humphrey . or the English department. All sub- missions should be typed and placed in a 9 x 11 inch manila envelope with the author's name, box, phone, and a randomly chosen iden- tification number on the front. The identification nwnber must also appear on the presented work to guarantee an· objective review. Idol receives mail in box No. 2526. , 'Irregular' weekly meetings of the Idol will be held. New members are \welcome\ because the people involved are \what it's all a bout.\ '·, :

D ~t. a for a and The a no as ener the and was that to a in the was by on at the who day tion the and the and are OONOORDIENSIS, October 18, 1984 Page 17 Undergraduate .Journal of Social· Sciences Created A new publication within the social studies written and published by undergraduates, will make its debut in the spring of 1985. The Undergraduate Journal of the Social Studies will contain essays from un- dergraduates from colleges and universities across the country on topics within the fields .of Economics, Government, History or Philosophy. There will be a $1000 cash prize awarded to the author of the best essay. The Journal, founded by Jonathan Axelrad and Daniel Schlein, both 1984 graduates of Wesleyan University, will be published by the College· of Social Studies at Wesleyan University Middletwon, Con- necticut. The intention of the Journal according to Axelrad is to provide undergraduate students of the ~ocial studies with the opportunity to do research on the level pursued .by undergraduates in the hard sciences. \It is going to be a nation-wide forum for out- standing underg'raduate writing,\ says Axelrad who has based the concept of the Journal on the \economics journal model.\ . The idea for the Journal . originated approximately one year ago. Axelrad and Schlein presented the idea to the College of Social Studies and an initial grant was allocatep to cover the costs of a mailing informing social science departments across the country about this . innovative -publication.· The President's Discretionary Fund, from President Colin G.· Campbell's office, also made a substantial contribution to get the Journal off and running. The editors of the J·ournal, chosen through an application and interview process, will be earning credit for their work on a tutorial advised by AssoCiate Professor RichardP. Adelstein. The four member editorial board and the ten associate editors will spend the fall engaged in intensive editorial training in preparation for the spring semester when they will work closely with the authors polishing- the essays for publication. . The $1000 cash prize will be awardeE! on the basis of the clarity, depth, scholarly iN- tegrity and the presence of an understanding of the truly in- terdisciplinacy n~ture of the social studies. Terrn papers and· condensed versions of senior theses are acceptable, and any I:nun:ber of essays may be submitted. All work must in- clude footnotes and a complete bibliography. Graduates in the class of 1984 are invited to submit work doae while an undergraduate. The deadline for essays is October 15. If there are any questions concerning any aspect of the Journal · please contact Amanita Duga, Editor in Chief, College of Social Studies at Wesleyan University, Middletown, CT. Student Activities Board of Schenectady County Community College Presents Barbara Moynihan Coordinator, Victimology Program Yale-New Haven Hospital, New Haven, Conn. Speaking On RAP.E The Problem: Rape on Campus ll :30a.m. Rape: The Impact, The Aftermath 3:00p.m. Thursday, October 18, 1984 Van Curler Room Elston Hall Schenectady County Community College The public is invited to attend. For further .information, contact Barbara V. Murphy, Director of Student Activities, at 346-6211, ext. 135. LIBRARY CANDIDATES VISIT Two candida'tes for the position of the Director of Schaffer Library will be visiting the college during the week of October 22nd. The Search Committee urges faculty and students to avail themselves of the op- lportunities, as outlined bel.ow, to meet and talk with -the candidates. Mr .. John D .. Haskell, Jr., presently Associate Librarian of the Earl Gregg Swem Library at the College of William and Mary, will be on campus Monday, October 22nd. He is· scheduled to meet with the Vice- President.for Academic Affairs and with the Library staff in the morning. He will be in the Humanities Lounge from 1:30 p.m. to 2:30p.m. and in Science and Engineering Room ll6N from 2:45 p .. m. to 3:45p.m. Ms. Flora Regnier will be visiting Union on Friday, October 26th. She is Technical Services Department Head of the Flosom Library at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. She is presently scheduled to meet with faculty and students that afternoon, first in the Humanities lounge from 1:30 to): 30 p.m. and then in Science and Engineering Room l16N from 2:45 to 3:45 p.m. Complete curricula vitae for these candidates are available at the Circulation Desk in Schaffer tibrary. Do youbave the right stuff? Get your-career off to a flying start. Become a Marine aviator. If you're a college freshman, sophomore or junior, you could qualify for our undergraduate Officer Commissioning Pro- gram and be guaranteed flight school after grad- uation. All training is conducted during the sum- mer. There are no on-campus drills. Plus, you receive $100 a month during the school year. yourself amongst the best and start off making from $17,000 to $23;000 a year. See if you measure up. Seniors can qualify for the graduate Officer Commissioning Program and attend training after graduation. This is an excellent opportunity to prove Check out the Marine Corps 1'4~~ti Officer Commissioning ~ Programs.

Page 18 OON.CORDIENSIS, October 18} 1981, SPORTS Wor.ld Series Continued from page 20 regular season, he was thrust into the spotlight when manager Dick Williams chose him as his DH. It was a smart move. Other Padre batting leaders were Wiggins ( .364) and Gary Templeton ( .316). Templeton aloo made a number of out- standing plays at shortstop. Detroit's hitting was paced by Trammel, Gibson, Larry Herndon ( .333) and Chet Lemon (.294). Lemon also .made the defensive play of the series, an over the shoulder, run saving catch in center field. Catcher Lance Parrish alsa played strong defense, throwing out three Padre base stealers in one game. Marty Castillo, Johnny Grubb and Rusty Kuntz all deliverd in clutch situations. · Also delivering was Tigers' owner Tom Monaghan. Monaghan, owner of Union's favorite Domino's Pizza, flew in two helicopter loads of his pizza for the news me_dia when the series ended. . With the series' victory, Detroit's Sparky Anderson became the first manager to win a World Series in each league. His regular players performed well, 'PUt Anderson got good use from his bench. Both teams hope to repeat their performances again nem year. The Tigers will have their work cut out for them. the Blue Jays, Red Sox and Yankees are much improved, and the Orioles are always tough. It should be easier for the Padres,. however. They will again battle the Dodgers and Braves for the top and. should repeat as division champtions. But this year the best team won the World Series. Hats off to the Tigers. And remember, spring training is just around the corner. This past weekend the undefeated Union rugby team defeated Potsdam 24·0 to capture the Upstate Rugby Union division ll east championship. The ruggers will travel to Buffalo on .Saturday to play division II west champion Binghamton for the state cham- pionship. N EFNL Coaches' and Sl Ds' Polls {1st place votes in parenthesis) Upstate, NY Union ( 10) Ithaca ( 1) Hofstra Hobart U. Buffalo Northeast Union ( 11) Trinity Ithaca ( 1) Plymouth St. . Amherst NCAA 1.Augustana, iL(4) 2. Union 4. Hofstra 10. Plymouth St. 13. WPI • I Tot. 53 36 20 16 15 Tot. 58 25 24 21 19 Tot. 60 56 49 16 12 Lady' Booters Continued from page 20 The Lady Booters will be on the road this Friday trying to grab a victory against RPI. Next Tuesday the Women's Soccer team will play its last home game of the '84 season against Skidmm·e. The game will be played ori Garis Field at 3:30 p.m. · FREE Pizza, Beer&Soda sponsored by Michael Anthony's On Friday, October 15 6-lOp.m, You Are Cordially Invited to Attend a Wine and Cheese Reception Celebrating the Publication of the Latest Edition of Union Review Milano Lounge, Tuesday, October 23 4:00pm This .unique college ca·mpus. is limited to only 500 studentsu. you!JI be one! Study around the world, visiting Japan, Korea; Taiwa.F,. Hong Kong, Sri Lanka, India, Egypt, Turkey, Greece and Spain. Choose from 60 voyage-related courses to earn 12-15 transferable hours of credit from the University of Pittsburgh. De\'elop an awareness of our relationship with other countrjes and a first-hand understanding of world issues. Semester at Sea admits students without regard to color, race or creed. SEMESTER AT SEA fqr details, write or calh · (800) 854•01,5 tollmfree Institute for Shipbo_!ltd Education University of Pittsburgh 2E Forbes Quadrangle • Pittsburgh, PA 15260 . +- rei Q.. >- .0 0 0 . .t:: c. \' !fJ E E 10 .... (!) N ... ·~ 0 .. 0 I Ill 1/) 1/) >- <{ >- .0 • .. Cl dt M tt S{ b! CI th th fil d R Sl T h rE oJ 01 7- tt 0 .t .... 0 . -& d.: I '\ wl at Sl s~ at Ct h< St or T1 hE a1 in bl st l\1 al pj Sl p: a

11'1 10 E E ltl ..... l.!> OONCORDIENSIS, October 18, 1984 Page 19 Booters Suffer First Loss ByADAMFALK Sports Staff The men's varsity soccer team experienced a week of both prosperity and despair. Last Wednesday the Dutchmen traveled to Waltham, MA and defeated the nation's second ranked. team-Brandeis. With two quick goals scored by fresh- man striker Dave Towksbury and sophomore standout Doug Wilk, the Dutchmen jumped on top 2-0. Then,. after Brandeis scored ona penalty kick, senior field captain Pete Stegemann scored his fifth goal of the season to put ''the icil'lg on the cake\ for the Dutchmen. Strong defensive play by senior goalie :::: Mike Harris (11 saves) helped t the Dutchmen hold on in the ~ second half. < On Saturday October 13, ~ before a large homecoming crowd, ·the Dutchmen suffered E their first loss of the season to ~ the H.P~I. Engineers. Wilk's _g first half goal gave the Dut- a. chmen a 1-0 lead at halftime. R.P.I fought back in the second half scoring fou'r .goals, in- cluding one with less than two minutes to go in the game. This was the first time in four years that the Dutchmen lost to RP.I. and the first time Union gave up four goals in a single game this season. Other goal scorers for Union were Towksbury anq Jim Monks. This week the Dut- chillen battled nearby Siena on Tuesday and they face Platt- sburgh on Saturday. Sophomore Mid-fielder Adar:n Falk clashes with RPI defender. The soccer team was defeated by the. Engineers 4-3. SPORTS Scott Wykoff On Sports Throughout the years Miami University in Oxford, Ohio has bern known as the \Cradle of Coaches\ for college football. Ara, Bo and Woody are a few of the greats to get their respec- tive coaching careers off the ground at the midwe~iern in- stitution. These days it looks as if a small upstate New York school has evolved into our nations' eastern equivalent of Miami of Oh'io. Put that map away, you can find that cradle in your own back yard. creating a new position in their coaching staff aad I happened tG be in the right place at the right time,\ said Lovett. \I was the first to get my foot in the deor.\ Lovett played his collegiate football in the New York area at C. W Post and received sorne important recommendations from his alma mater. The first year professional coach's respon- sibilities are many. After each game, Lovett helps break down films and inserts information found into the J.ets newly acquired computer system. During practice John runs tbe scout offense against the Jets first team defense. The scout team offense runs the offense of that weeks opponent. His responsibilities also include work with the defensive staff. Women's Tennis Stands at 3-5 That's right old Union College's football program has, over the last few years, acted as a stepping stone for a numb~r of coaches looking to advance their careers. The first to start the ball rolling was the man most talked about in turning the Dutchmen's football fortunes around, Joe Wirth. Wirth stepped down as head man back in the fall of 1981 to take to the Ivies as an Associate Head Coach at Brown University. One year later both Mark Whipple and John Lovett fOllowed suit following Wirth to Brown. Though Wirth is presently out of coaching, Whipple and Lovett remained in Rhode Island just long enough to pick up a cup of coffee. Whipple moved on to the Arizona Wranglers of the USFL while Lovett made the move to the NFL and the New York Jets. \Pro football is a different type of game as everybody uses the drop back pass,\ said Lovett, \each week you've got to prepare to stop the pass, unlike college, everybody throws the ball well.\ He went on to comment, \Pro football is alot more personnel oriented,\ than the college game, with a great deal of emphasis placed on handling personnel. When asked about the differences between the professional athlete and the collegiate player Lovett remarked, \Football is their profession, they want to play well because they like to play the game and the financial opportunities involved with the game are tremendous.\ Players like Greg Buttle can make a nice buck playing the game and cash in on the financial benefits found off the field. John used the success enjoyed by Buttle's Long Island restaurants as an example of a player cashing in on his name outside of the game. When you're a pro you do things in a professional way and John was quick to comment, \It's all football, I mean it's all top shelf, everything is top shelf.\ The first year pro coach enjoys the style that goes along with an NFL organization; the nicest hotels and when you need something, no need to worry about budget limitations. N .,_ ·~ 0 ... 0 I ro \' \' >.. <i: >.. .0 0 .... 0 .c Q. By LINDA ESPOSITO Sports Staff 1984 has proved to be a tough season for the Women's Varsity Tennis Team. To date, the team holds a record of 3-5 with three remaining matches. They were off to a 2-0 start with victories over Russell Sage and Colgate, 7-2 and 4-3 respectively, but three tough opponents set the Dutchw0men back to a 2-3 record with losses to Hamilton, Vassar, and Skidmore. A 7-2 victory over Hartwick allowed them to break.even but losses to the talented Williams team and an unfortunate loss to RPI set them to their current state. Leading the team are senior captain Linda Esposito, playing number two and sophomore Meredith McCarty at number Chris Movech prepares a forehand in recent tennis action. New Trainer By JAY GROSSMAN Sports Staff Union's new athletic trainer, who is taking care of our injured athletes, is Ms. Louann Kuntz. She comes to Union after spending three years as trainer at Burlington County Junior College in New Jersey- Kuntz was a division I field hockey standout at Lockhaven State University and then went on to do her graduate work at Trenton State University. It was her athletic background and her awareness and concern for injuries that made her want to become an athletic trainer. She still plays field hockey for the Mohawk Field Hockey club and also plays on a state cham- pionship softball team in the sUIIliiler. Union's athletic program has pleased Kuntz. She feels she has a good working relationship with head trainer Tom Fashouer because they each spend the same amount of time in all sports here. She is also very happy to be involved with the football team and is looking forward to the hockey season because it is a new sport for her. Kuntz says, \Union's athletes are intelligent and very cordial. This has made working here a very pleasant experience so far.\ ..Kuntz likes the fact that she spends a lot of her time working. She finds the students are also dedicated and spend a lot of time playing and watching sports at Union. Presently, Kuntz is working towards her degree in physical therapy and would like to be involved with the U.S. Olympic teams in Colorado Springs this summer. The Concordiensis wishes-Kuntz the best of luck in her new position as athletic trainer. ~portswriters Needed: x 615 5 I three, with 4-4 individu~l records. SoJ')h0more Gail Tankel, at the number four spot, is 3-5. Liz Melamed, the teams dynamic freshman, leads the team playing the number one position. The doubles teams of Julie Kortick, Peggy Belanoff and Sue Lindenberg, Carolyn Feinstein are also playing extremely well. The team concludes its season on the road meeting Siena, Oneonta and Albany State, this week. · Earlier this week I had a chance to talk to new Jet assistant John Lovett about his move to the bigs. \To make a long story short, the Jets were Athlete of the Week By PAUL KURKER Sports Staff Congratulations to freshman Sue Anne Piekarski of the Women's Varsity Volleyball team for being selected as this weeks Athlete of the Week. Sue is an outstanding middle hitter and middle blocker for the 7-3 Dutchwomen and has picked up coach Lynne Barta's system very well. According to coach Barta, \Sue is an excellent all- around player. She plays as well defensively as she does of- fensively. Sue is going to con- tribute to the continued growth of the program for· years to come and has contributed an awful lot to the success of the team so .far this year.\ Sue is a ~ Managerial Economics major .c and a graduate of Somers High a. School in Shenrock, New York. 0 In high school, she was all- (/) league in volleyball as a junior and senior and' all-league and all-county in softball as a senior. Sue was also awarded the Most Outstanding Athlete Award as a senior. Sue Anne Piekarski AHention Union Community Anyone with a valid Union identification card will be admitted to the 10/27 Varsity Football game at Williams free of charge. limited one admiHance per ID. When asked about the turn around in Union's football fortunes he attributes the recent success to a change in the players attitude. \When players believe they can win they will win\ and work very hard to win each week,\ said Lovett, with that winning attitude he sees players, \finding a way to win and even when they are lucky ,the reason for the luck can be found in that winning attitude.\ Known to his colleagues as Levi, the ex-Dutchman assistant keeps an eye on the Sunday morning college foot- ball scores to see how the garnet faired on the previous Saturday afternoon.~ A host of Dutchmen coaches and players remain from his days in Schenectady and he wishes them the best in '84. John's not sure what the future will hold for him but one thing is for sure, when football season rolls around, one coach nicknamed Levi, will be down on those sidelines doing what he loves the most. SUPPORT UNION SPORTS

\' .Q 0 u Ill .., Ill -\ ~ ,.. .Q 0 .... 0 ..r:: a Page IJO OONC'OBDIENSIS~ October 18, 1981, ... host Coast Guard Saturday Dutchmen Dump RPI By TED CANNON Sports Staff Senior quarterback Dan Stewart completed 16 of 27 passes for 224 yards and one_ touchdown. Stewart also had an impressive 23 yard scamper to lead the Dutch:tpen over traditional rival RPI 38-0. The offense seemed a little sluggish at the start. Senior flanker Rich Kellaher observed, \We started out a little flat, but then the line really started pushing people around, and then we began to roll.\ Senior tailback Jahn Johnson got Union on the board early by hulling in from two yards out to give Union a 7-0 lead, and himself an astounding 21 career rushing touchdowns. All this came only moments after the versatile back had picked up a three yard gain to become one of only a handful of Union rushers to surpass 2,000 career yards. In the second quarter, steady kicker Greg Sticka drilled a 22 yard field goal, and freshman Cecil Bright scooted in from two yards out to put Union up 17~. Stewart completedUnion's first half scoring by taking Union down the field, hitting a variety of receivers. , Converted quarterback Roger Harris was a frequent target, while tightend Frank Kraft always seemed to be there if Stewart found himself in trouble. Stewart capped the drive by hitting Kellaher with a pin\point four yard timing pass to put Union up 24-0. As in previous games, the defense simply took control of the game in the second half. On the day, the defense aU owed only 182 yards of total offense by RPI, and only nine of those on the ground. This Union defense is a unit in the true sense of the wotd. It is a masterful combination of talented people at different positions to form an extremely talented defensive team that has collected four shutouts in five games. In the defensive backfield, senior Lenny Huttner played a solid game (one interception). Senior Bob Bertagna was his usual steady self (one fumble recovery), and linebacker Marty Glaze was all over the field (one interception). On the defensive front, defensive ends Brian Cox and Mark Tavitian played good, hard-hitting football, while tackles Sherman Parrott (one fumble recovery), and Sean Duffy could not be moved away from the RPI backfield. Union completed the scoring with John Johnson plowing in from one yard out in the third quarter, and freshman Jim LaFrance (three receptions for 90 yards) hauled in a ten yard bullet from freshman quar- terback Mike Garguilo, in the fourth quarter to give Union its 38-0 final. This Saturday, the Dutchmen play host to a much-improved Coast Guard team. Union 38 RP14 Siena~ Union 3 Middlebury 3 Williams 3 L-eMoyneJ Union 3 Union 34 Union?, Williams 9 RPJS . Hartwick 7 Williams 1 Union3 Union 25 Uni.on 22 GARNET SCOREBOARD Oct. 8-0ct. 14 FOOTBALL (5-0) MEN'SSOCCER (5-1-1} WOMEN'S SOCCER {3-1-4) VOLLEYBALL ( 7 -3) J. V. FOOTBALL ( 3-0) WOMEN'S TENNIS (3-5) FIELD HOCKEY (3-8) WOMEN'S X-COUNTRY (3-0) - Dukhmen Sportsweek Oct. 18.-24 Thursday, Oct. 18 Volleyball at Siena, vs·. Siena & St. Rose Friday, Oct. 19 Women's Soccer at RP I Field Hockey vs. Manh.:HtanvHie Saturday, Oct. 20 Football vs. Coast Guard Men's Soccer at Plattsburgh . J. V. Men's Soccer vs .. Berkshire Field Hockey vs. Potsdam X-Country at RPI, CD Meet Volleyball at Vassar Monday, Oct. 22 J.V. Football at Williams Tuesday, Oct. 23 Women's Soccer vs. Skidmore Volleyball at Albany State vs . .Albany State, Oswego, Russell Sage Wednesday, Oct. 24 Men's Soccer a·t Skidmore RPIO Union 3 Union 0 Vassar l Union 0 Uni.on o Uniono RPIO Hamilton6 Hartwick2 Uniono Union 1 Union 1 Union 0 RPIO Colgate32 RPI j4 7p.m. 4p .. m. 6:30p.m. 1:30 p.m. 2p.m. 10a.m. 5p.m. 9a.m. 3p.m. 3:30p.m. 6p.m. 3p.ln. Senior Defensive End Mark Tavitian (28) rejects an RP I pass attempt as Sherman Parrott (94) grabs the RPI quarterback from behind. Lady Hooters Under .500 Tigers Win It ! By FRITZ and GERHARD Sports Staff The women's varsity soccer team faced the tough teams of Vassar, Middlebury, and Williams for their past three games, all at home. Only finishing with a victory over Vassar, the team now holds a 3- 4-1 record, falling below a .500 average for the first time this season. BySTEVE PIRAINO Sports Staff With an awesome com- bination of power and pitching, the Detroit Tigers rallied past the bewildered San Diego Padres four games to one in the 1984 World Series. The Tigers were led by series MVP Alan Trammel, who hit .450 and belted two clutch home rllns in game four. Also critical in the Tigers' . triumph were right fielder Kirk Gibson (2 HR and 5 RBI in game 5), starter Jack Morris (2 complete game victories) and relief ace Willie Hernandez (2 saves). Gitison will be forever remembered as the \Goose Buster\ after his three run eighth inning homer rocked reliever Rich \Goose\ Gossage in the final game. Gossage \' cannot be singled out as a scapego<Jt~, however. Many of his teammates were also at fault. Throughout the series the Padres lacked the con- centration and heads-up play necessary to win it. They gave the Tigers many breaks, and Detroit capitalized on them. The Padres' biggest problem was ineffectiveness from their <~~ starting pitchers. No San Diego ~ startermade it past the fifth :a inning, and their combined ~ ERA was 13.94. In one game u Padre pitchers yielded 11 free -~ passes; Detroit's total for the ~ entire series. ,.. On the other, hand, with the .o exception of starter Dan Petry, .E the Tigers' pitching was ..£. flawless. They received three good starting performances between Morris and Milt Wilcox. 'Their bullpen was even more impressive. Hernandez and Aurelio Lopez mowed down hitter after hitter, insuring Detroit's first World Cham- pionship in 16 years. Many Padres had .poor showings. Left fielder Carmelo Martinez set a five game series record by striking out nine times. Second baseman Alan Wiggins and right fielder Tony Gwynn looked terrible in the field, and utility pla¥ers Luis Salazar and Kurt Bevecqua made costly base running mistakes. Also disappointing at the bat were Bobby Brown ( .067) as a replacement for the injured Kevin McReynolds, NL Batting Champion Gwynn ( .263) and Championship Series MVP Steve Garvey ( .200). Bevacqua, however, was the surprise of the series: He made up for his mistake by belting two home runs and hitting a solid .412 for the series. After being used sparingly during the Continued on page 18 Last Wednesday anyone fortunate enough to venture over the \brook that no longer bounds'-' to Garis Field wit- nessed a truly exciting comeback victory over Vassar. After scoring at 11 minutes and 7 seconds into the game, Vassar took a 1-0 lead, and managed to contain the Union squad for a major portion of the game, despite the many attempts to get on the scoreboard. The Union players never gave up, and with a little added hustle they were able to turn the game around. With only 16 minutes and 59 seconds-left in the game, Clarissa McFarlan triggered the Union rally be heading in the tying goal off of a loose ball set up by teammate, Patti The 3-8 women's field hockey team push the ball upfield aga.inst the Ephwomen of Williams. Roach. Just five minutes later Roach booted in the go-ahead goal after hustling to beat the Vassar defense to get to fullback Patty Richard's assisting pass. For an insurance goal, Celia Mann scored a third time for Union with six minutes remaining; Mary Siley had an assist on the play. On Saturday afternoon of Homecoming weekend, Union took on Middlebury, coming up short, 3-0. The scene was repeated on Monday against Williams as the Dutchwomen fell short again with a score of 3- 0. Shortly· into each game, both Middlebury and Williams realized they would have a tough game in front of them. Despite Union's hard aggressive play, the Union Booters could not get on the scoreboard. If outcomes of games did not depend solely on goals sr.ored, but also included determination, hustle and domination of play, then Union would surely have a few more wins. Continued on page 1 8 X-Men Win Two By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff A wrong turn by Colgate's top runner clinched a double win for the men's cross country team up at Central Park last Saturday as the Dutchmen defeated Division I Colgate 25- 32 and RPI 22-34. Before a Homecoming crowd of parents and teammates, Union ace Chris O'Donnell pulled off a dramatic come-from-behind victory as he passed. four runners in the last half mile. What secured a team win for the Dutchmen was a wrong turn in the last half mile by Colgate's number one man, O'Connor as he turned too soon for the finish. After realizing this mistake he was only able to recover enough to finish ninth over-all and fourth for his team. Also running a very strong race for the Dutchmen was sophomore Bob Stenard who placed second for Union by finishing fourth and was passed only by O'Donnell in that last chaotic half mile. Junior Billy McRoberts finished third for the Dutchmen while sophom.ore Mike Reed, coming off a strong second place finish in the J.V. race at the LeMoyne Invy last week, continued to run well as he captured the fourth· position on varsity Saturday. Occupying the fifth position for the Dut- chmen was sophomore Meil Ricks. Experimental in displacing Colgate and RPI' s fifth runner was junior Tim Orcutt and freshman Pat DiCerbo. In the J.V race Union con- tinued its winning ways by decisively defeating RPI 18-44. Led by Marc Craw, Union placed five runners in the top six. In the women's Capital District Meet also held Saturday at Cental Park, Albany State took first place honors by defeating Siena, RPI, AND Skidmore by a score o£20- 55-55-103 respectively. The Union women were again unable to field a full team but got a fine sixth place finish out of sophomore Amy Walsh. With a 3-0 record in dual meet C@mpetition, the men's team goes to RPI this Saturday for the Capital District Meet. <J) c .0 .0 0 a:: (]) > (]) ..... Vl >- .0 0 +- 0 .c: 0. ex - Th At ] IV cor VOil the (Ai sch 1 for pro not rna fac Tht rec to am 1 as Stu stu cor SOl I the ll)E 4:3 ve: de' ref to opJ ~ reJ of tht wb co Ac sci ye.

3- a of 18 v. as in ~. O- Ill c .0 .0 0 ~ C]) > C]) .... <f) >- .0 0 +- 0 .c Q. CXIV! No.5 • f?o11ege 1877 \\ ~- Schenectady, New York~ Bulk Rate U.S. Postage :_faid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 October 25, 1984 ROTC Issue Clarified Thomas Warger, Assistant to the Vice President of AcademiC Affairs, discusses the Administration's position on the ROTC issue. '1!1' By JUDIE STEINHARDT News Editor In the October 11 issue of Concordiensis, an article ap- peared which .presented the · main topics being di~cussed by the Academic Affairs Cotmcil ( AAC), including that of recognition of ROTC courses. The following issue contained a _ letter .expressing the con- solidated opinion of various faculty members on how to handle th~situation. In order to bring the various aspects of this controversial subjed to light, the following is an account of the various facts· involved, as ''G I T. . '' P · · 1- e nne · roposa Rejected by Students By SARAH CALDERINI News Editor Many people in the college community have recently voiced their opinions regarding the Academic Affairs Council's (AAC's) proposal for a new schedule called \Gel Tfme.\ The AAC met last week and formally approved the proposal, although the vote was not tmanimous. The AAC has made a recommendation to the faculty to approve the proposal. The faculty will, in turn; make a recommendation to pass, or not to pass, the proposal to the administration. The proposal is progressing as planned, although the Student Forum believes that student . opinion is not being considered as an important source of. input. Last Thursday, October 18, the Forum sponsored a town meeting in Strauss Lounge at 4:30 p.IJl. Many ideas were verbalized and the Forum decided that an all-student referendum would be beneficial to finding out pverall student opinion. · because of complaints that the present one is too high pressured.\ Under the·· proposed \Gel Plan,\ students would take classes which are scheduled to meet on a Monday-Wednesday- Friday basis or a Tuesday- Thursday basis. The. idea is largely being considered because faculty members have voiced com- \The school has been trying for three years to change .the schedule, becaus.e of complaints that the pr~sent one is too high pressured.\ plaints that students do not have sufficient time to prepare between class periods. Under the Plan, students would have time for new material to \gel · thus increasing the productivity of time .spent in class. More concern was voiced over the fact that, if the college is indeed trying to eliminate the \mid-week weekend,\ it now seems as though there will be more temptation to go out during the week. Under the \Gel Plan,\ a typical Tuesday would consist of the following: one-half of the campus will have classes scheduled and one-half will not. On the preceding night, . a Monday, some people can \party\ on a night not normally considered a \party night\ under the present schedule. The situation in the dorms could possibly be alternating rooms of quiet studying and loud music. \Conflicts could even arise within a particular room,'' stated junior Andrew George. Many students thought that one advantage ofthe proposal is that 8:30 classes would be eliminated. Under the \Gel Plan\ the first class meeting vv:ould be 9:00 a.m. One student attending the meeting also made the point that most other schools in the country have schedules similar or identical to the proposed Continued on page 3 Union's ~~Plot\ well as the differing opinions of s_eyeral faculty and ROTC students. The underlying causes which exposed this issue are very unclear, According to Dr. Thomas Warger, Assistant to the Vice President, \The request from ROTC to grant academic credit has been something they have been asking for for a number of years.\ Liesel Golden, Senior Air Fotce ROTC student. on cam- pus, clilims she has been trying to get course credit since she has been enrolled in ROTC. \I've written twenty page proposals on this ... we've gotten the feeling that they've never really looked at it and con- sidered both sides.\ It is quite clear that the question of. granting ROTC course credit is not a new one. It is not clear, however, why it is suddenly a major topic of consid'eration by the ad- ministration and faculty of this school. , One possible reason is that ROTC has formally asked the school to give recognition of some of the courses. At present there is \no formal agreement\ with ROTC, according to Warger. The ROTC students .at Union go to RPI and Siena, so the school is hardly involved in the program at all. This year, W arger says, the \Air Force and Navy have asked us to formalize a Crosstown Agreement--a written formal · agreement between campuses tliat do not have an ROTC detachment, between those campuses containing the ROTC. It amounts to. a contract-one of the points is that the schools will give academic creidt for ROTC courses.'' It is not known what will happen if this agreement is refused QY Union. Warger and Vice President D'Andrea have talked with ROTC officials, and Warger was left with the im- pression that a compromise could be reached. \They've expressed some willingness to be flexible,\ says Warger. He does not believe the school is being blackmailed into granting credit or even recognition of ROTC courses. He says about ROTC's stipulation of granting credit within th~> Crosstown Agreement, \It has never been pr-esented as an ultimatum. This just happens to be one of the clauses in the agreement.\ Furthermore, Union has so far bent to the pressure only slightly, and does not necessarily have to bend any further. Warger says, \We've yielded to the pressure as far as we have put it on our agenda. The administration would like to keep ROTC and would like to come up with an agreement that will be acceptable to students and the college as well.\ The final say on the matter, however, is up to the faculty in conjunction with ad- ministration, so it can go anywhere from granting full credit to not granting recognition at all. · There are several reasons, however, why Union would want to cooperate with ROTC. The money the school gets from the students in ROTC is one obvious reason to oblige the ROTC requests, but W arger does not view this as the overriding concern. He says that in the long run it does not save Union that much money. Warger says that if there were to be no ROTC, and the spots held by ROTC students were held by the \same mix of students who make up the student body now, the college would have to pay somewhere in the neighborhood of $75,000 in financial aid.\ Another advantage in com- plying with the requests is that, according to W arger, ROTC \improves the diversity of the student body. Academically ROTC students are strong. There is an interest on our part to get the program regularized ... we•re talking about the college career of some students. If we regularize the status of ROTC at Union, we remove the possibility of having the program stopped abruptly.\ Lately, this issue has become the subject of great debate on campus. In order to clarify all the aspects of the subject, several of the arguments are Continued on page 5 NFL Action Previewed Senior Tom Megarian, representative to the AAC, said of the plan that \it knocks out the 'Wednesday Weekend' which i&· one reason why we're consb;lering the · · plan.\ According to Megarian, \The school has been trying for three years to change the schedule Nonetheless, because classes woUld only be meeting two or _ three ti:rries a week, class periods would be prolonged. Students would still be in class for 2oo minutes per week, but according to . senior Doug Landon, ''One hour and forty minutes of consecutive class sotmds scary to many people., Sophomore Adam Rosman's \only major criticism is the length of Class time.\ *-Page Nine-* * --Page twenty-two-*

Pllge2 CONCORDIENSIS, October 25, 1984 Bue·ch·ner Comes to Union '%~ ~ .. } ~: -~ .,. ~ik.·' !~t :·~ ·W ,. ~f·\' ~{'' ~ :~· ~·· '~7~~~ ~, .. , ,_ ·'P President of Sigma Phi, John Ford talks about the recent house fi.re. Fire at Sigma Phi- Fuses Spark By CHRISTINE WOOD Staf.f On October 8, Sigma Phi avoided a potential fire. The problem occurred when the electrical circuit was overloaded due to the replacement of a fifteen amp fuse by a thirty amp fuse. Although no flames appeared, a lot of smoke resulted as the insulation of the wires melted. The fuse was removed within a few seconds and no other damage resulted. The Schenectady fire department was called to the scene by Mark Jaffe, vice president of Sigma Phi, when the smoke was seen on the second floor. Head of Security, Cliff Wood, said that the problem was caused by an attempt to increase the electrical power to the circuit: \It is an ill-advised act at any time to try to increase the electrical power and not use the proper fuse.\ Although few damages resulted, many fire safety improvements have been made. Due to -the poor condition of the electrical system of the house, further problems have since been discovered and im- provements are underway. John Ford, president of Sigma Phi, together with Barry Watkins, fire marshall, went through the house looking for possible fire hazards. Many improvements are now being made, including the removal of electric heaters and extension cords, with the hope of making Sigma Phi a safer place to live. ByTONYDUNlAF Staff · Last Tuesday October 16 through Titursday October 18, the Minister Fredrick Buechner, a well known poetic, fictional, and non-fictional writer was visiting Union. During this time Buechner participated in a nwnber of gatherings. Last Tuesday evening ·in Hale House Buechner read exerpts from a variety of his works. The reading was followed by an informal reception in Milano Lounge. On Wednesday, Buechner met with members of Union's literary magazine, The Idol, for a luncheon during which he discussed his life as a writer. According to Buechner, \Writing is an incredibly solitary profession, but the personal rewards can be great.\ His advice for anyone aspiring to be a writer is simply to practice as often as possible. Buechner, a warm and sensitive person, started writing at the age of six, but it was in prep school at Lawrenceville where he reaUy was \sparked\ to write by one of his English teachers. After Lawrenceville, he attended VOTE ON NOV. 6 Union Trustees~Meet:~·­ Group Reports Given By AARON TOFFLER Staff Amidst Homecoming 1984 weekend's festivities, the Board of Trustees held a meeting. Reports were given by the Student Mfairs Committee, the Academic Mfairs Committee, the Buildings, Grounds and Equipment Committee and the College Resources Committee among others. The Student Affairs Com- mittee presented a report of the status of fraternities and sororities at Union. \Recognizing that fraternies and sororities are here to stay, the administration wants to make them as good as possibl~,\ said Shari Midoneck, senior trustee. There was a workshop for alumni and present Greek members. The tone was one of involving the alumni more as a report, \Greek Life at Union: Developing an Alumni Management Network\ was presented. Also given was a report by the Academic Affairs Committee on the Graduate and Continuing Studies program. Union has such programs all over the country including Florida and Massachusetts. Also reported on by the Committee was the positive feeling and reception of the programs for high school students. Many of the students irfvolved in such programs later become interested in Union. Classes in languages and computers were also offered during the summer for children in grades 4-10. Finally, the administration statistics for the class of 1988 are as follows: 2972 applicants, 1241 ac- cepted, 532 enrolled, 40 percent male, 5 percent minority. Average verbal SAT score 560; average mathematics SAT score 630. This translates to a ·12.9 percent yield (people whu were accepted that enrolled). Next to give a report was the Buildings, Grounds and Equipment Committee. Included in Lheir report was a slide show given by the .ar· chitects who will work on the college center plan. \The trustees were pleased and excited. We are waiting for an estimate and hoping it's not over budget. If it is over budget, decisions and compromises will have to be made whether to cut building or spend more money.\ The college center is scheduled for 1987. The College Resources Committee presented a report also. They pointed out that 58 percent of the alumni donated money to the college. This puts Union in the top one percent of all colleges in terms of alumQi donations. This statistic suggests that people who graduate from Union still feel that they are a part of the ·school. Also mentioned at the meeting was the Campaign for Union. The goal of this program is to raise $50 million for the endo~Jment. Forty five million has already been raised. The meeting was brought Lo a close with praise for the Con- rordirnsis' coverage of Homecoming. All trustees felt that the event was well ad- vertised and was a complete success. Talk on Lebanese Youth to be Held at Union College Bonnie Nasr of the Contact and Resource Center in Bei.rut, Lebanon, will speak on her work with Lebanese youth scarred by war and violence, Wed- nesday, Oct. 24, at 4:30p.m. at Union College. Sponsored by the Newman and Protestant Campus Ministries, the talk is free and open to the public and will be held in Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall. Nasr, an American who has lived in Beirut for 23 years, joined the staff of the Contact and Resource Center in April of 1983 to direct public relations both in Lebanon and the U.S. The Contact and Resource Center was founded in 1978 and is largely staffed by volunteers. Its objective is to promote Christian wholism, especially among youth, through cooperative action with Lebanese organizations and in- dividuals and through setting up models. Among established programs are handicapped sensitivity, drug awareness, emergency relief, career guidance, and reconciliation. Princeton University where, in his senior year,. he petitioned the English department to let him write a novel instead of a mandatory thesis. The English department discussed his proposal, but their decision was a negative one. Buechner, however, had already started his book and in the swnmer after his graduation he finished his .first novel entitled A Long Days Dying. The novel, published in 1950, was an ex- traordinary critical success which thrusted Buechner into the public eye. Subsequent works of fiction include: The Seasons' Dif- ference, The Return of Ansel Gibbs; The Final Beast, Entrance to Porlock, The Book of Bebb, and Godtic (a Pulitzer Prize nominee tn 198l). Buechner has also authored a variety of non-fictional works: The Magnificent Defeat; The Hungering Dark, The Alphabet of Grace to name only a few. He has won a vast amount of honors which include The Irene Glascock Memorial Inter-· collegiate Poetry Award, 1947; The O'Henry Prize for the story \The Tiger,\ 1955; The Richard and Hinda Rosenthal Award for \The Return of Ansel Gibbs,\ 1958; and the American Academy and Institute of Arts Letters Awards, 1982. Buechner completed his foundational' work in theology at Union Theological Seminary fNew York City). He is an or- dained minister of the Presbyterian Church . .From 1958 through 1967 he taught at Phillips Exeter Academy. Since 1968 he has lived in Rupert, Vermont. Buechner presently has a formula for a new novel, though he was hesitant to speak much about it. Interestingly enough, Buechner considers· the best part about composing a novel the stage before he writes anything down, ''There is nothing wrong with it-it's just a wonderful thought in your head.\ Buechner still preaches and he also incorporates his books into his ministry. His character Leo Bebb, for example, is a rascally bigot, but simultaneously a saint con- ve.ying the word of God. Buechner extrapolated by explaining, \If iNdeed there is a God, he works in exceedingly mysterious ways.\ Mr. Buechner's visit was sponsored by the Religious Programs Office along with President John Morris. Lecture Series on the Adirondacks Oflered At Union College -Adirondack ·Forum, a series of three Wed~e~·day ·lei:t~res designep_ to foster a better under.:?tand!ng and appreciation of the natural' and cultural heritag~ of the· Adirondack Park' region, begins at Union College Nov. 7. · Lectures are: \The Adi·rondack Loon Preservation . Project,\ Nov. 7, by George D. Davis, executive director of the Adirondack Council; \The History of Crown Point,\ Nov. 14, by Gregory Furness, director of the Crowr:~ .Point State • Historic Site; and \Snowshoeing ir:~ the Adirondack Forest Preserve,\ Nov. 28, by Lawrence· King, experienced snowshoer, hiker, and photographer. Lectur.es meet from 7:30 to 9 p.m. in Social Sci~nce Building, Room 115. Course organizer is Thomas L. Cobb, Adirondack Research Center. To register or obtain more information, contact the Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies, Wells House, Union College, 370-6288. Students examine Halloween attire at a nearby costume shop. Ill ttl Ol .!: u Q) c: J:: c. ttl 0 >- ..0 0 .... 0 .!: c. \\ 10 Ol .!: u <U c .!: c ltl 0 > .0 0 ... c J: c

n at ry he at a ~st es is er a d. a ly \' ct1 ,gy J:: u <V c: .c 0. ct1 0 > ..Q ~ 0 .c c. CONCORD.IENS/S, (Jt:Wher 25, 1984 Forum Proposes Extending Hours ByDAVEMARIN Staff in favor of it.\ When asked if he believed, he said that he had \' been told that was the case. He .g stressed that ~·It is nat the g drinking that bothers me, it is ~ the consequences.\ ~ Page3 This past Tuesday, October 23, President of the Student Forwn Steve Benson met with Dean of Students Joseph Marnmola to discuss the one o'clock Skeller closing time. At that meeting, Benson called attention to a Student Forum proposal which ca1led for ex- tending the hours of the Skeller and Pub. Dean Mammola said he was receptive to the proposal from the Student Forwn and indicated his willingness to find a positive solution to the request. Director of Food Service Jan ~ Gray had her own concerns .E! over the later clo.sing time. For ~ starters, she pomted out that _g '' FoodService is here to provide c. food~not to provide alcoholic ileverages.\ She added that for a campus of Union's size to have. two drinking establishments is extremely rare, and in fact, most campuses of this size have none at all. It was not until a few years ago, she stated, that the Skeller ever stayed open past one o'clock. She now wants to return to the original hours. She also maintained that she had received no complaints from students about the new closing time and that her managers at the Skeller had reported no problems with irate students. Professor William Zwicker, Chairman of the AAC, and senior Tom Megarian discuss the proposed \Gel Plan.\ \Gel-Time\ - Last week's issue of Con- cordiensis reported that the Dean was \open\ to the idea, but now Steve Benson states it has gone beyond that, saying, \My feeling is that it's very likely that the Rathskeller hours will be extended, if not this week, then next.\ It should be noted that this refers to the Pros and Cons Weighed When asked whether she \I think people will travel regardless of our hours. I don't think we should take responsibility for what peopl~ do.\ weekend closing hours and possibly Tuesday hours. There was also no suggestion of what hours would be recommended, though two o'clock seems likely based on the Forum's proposal. Mammola said the college's concern is to balance two -Dan Gray thought students go off CaxJlpUs and travel in cars after the Skeller closes, Gray replied, \I think people will travel regardless of our hours. I don't think we should take respon- sibility for what people do.'' She also indicated that she had no way of knowing what people do when the Skeller closes at 'One as opposed to two. President of the Interfrater- nity Council (IFC), Roger Harris, who also spoke to Dean Mammola on Tuesday, ex- Continued from page 1 plan. Senior Shari Midoneck commented, however, that \Union students will most likely be against it (the installation of the Plan), whether .they un- derstand it fully or not, because most people like to avoid change.\ Students' Understanding Whether the student body fully understands the proposal · or not is, at the moment, irrelevant. Last Monday, the Forum conducted a poll of student opinion. Seven hundred and six students participated in the poll. Of these students, 5.89 voted \Against\ (83 percent), 109 vote!l \For\ (15 percent) and thirteen voted \Undecided\ (2 percent).' Student opinion is now realign·~d. but many Student Forum men)bers, along with other students believe that student opinion is being ignored. Professor William Zwicker, Chairman of the AAC, disagrees, saying that ''students and their opinions will be taken into consideration as much as possible in making the final decision.\ As of Tuesday, October 23, ne formal decision had been made either by the faculty or the administration. · If the \Gel Plan\ proposal is approved overall, then the Office of the Registrar will do a \dry schedule run\ on the computer to see if the new scheduling can work. If this scheduling of a \mock\ term is a success, then this new schedule could go into effect as soon as spring of 1985. · Results of Student Forum ''Gel-Time'' Referendum \Are you in favor of the proposed \Gel· Time'? schedule?\ Yes 109 (15%) No 589 (83%) Undecided 13 (2%) . elements: the need of students to have a rich social life, and for the college to keep in mind its primary function af providing an education. He stated that \the college has a responsibility to provide as many Social outlets as possible'' but maintains that the Pub and Skeller are different from Geppetto's and the R~fters. His objective is to find a \balanced and reasonable closing time.\ pressed optimism. He went to 1 \\\'\·~--\\'!\\------------.-------~~----------------- . represent the IFC view to the j ' I s c PI y \' ct1 Ol .c u <V c .c c. ro Q > .0 .e 0 .c c. Dean. Harris said that Mam- fl mola was apparently not aware 1,, . ans ear that more than a small minority . of students were upset and that students in general were angry. There were, of course, reservations about closing later by both Mammola and Director of Food Service Jan Gray. For Mammola, these stemmed largely from the concerns over responsible use of alcohol. He indicated, however, \if the outcome of this were to be that the students stay on campus and fewer people are driving~if I really felt that I'd be entirely Dean Mammola now says that he is aware of the significant student concern. He summarized the issue saying, \I see the solution to this issue as one that can be handled within the colle~ community and I am pleased that students have used the Student Forum as a means for bringing this request to me.\ By DAVID GULLIVER Staff In 1983, Congressman Theodore S. Weiss said, \The Independent Student Coalition has been extremely effective in its efforts to fight the Reagan Administration's attack on student financial aid pmgrams.\ At the level of state government, the efforts of the The Union College Student Forum has donated, in cooperation with Union College and Wedekind Motors, a new 1985 Pontiac station wagon to the Big Brothers/Big Sisters Campus Program. This past year, Union student volunteers have contributed over 9,000 hours to work with Little Brothers/Little Sisters in the community. Roy Cavoy, representative for Wedekind Motors; Sue Brand, Vice-President of the Student Forum; \LittiG Sister\ Sherry Cummines; \Big Sister\ Rebecca Clemente; and President John Morris are pictured above in front of the new car. I.S.C. in 1984 resulted in in- creased Tuition Aid Program (TAP) awards for New York State students. The Independent Student Coalition (ISC) is an organization of students from more than 60 private colleges in New York State and represents over 300,000 students. On O~tober 13, the I.S.C. held its first meeHng of the school year in Albany to determine policy and objectives and to elect the Board of Directors. Union College senior Steven Benson was chosen Board Chairman and junior Adam Rosman is Union's student representative to the Coalition. ''The purpose of the I.S.C. is twofold,\ said Benson. \It acts as a liaison between student governments of independent colleges. Together we make student concerns known at the state level.\ The I.S.C.'s highest priority is the TAP parity bill which seeks to restore award and eligibility levels to their 1973 status. Last year's bill increased the maximum award from $2200 to $2700. The requirement for maximum award is determined through New York State net taxable income. The income level was raised from $4000 to $5000 under the 1984 bill, thereby allowing more··students to qualify for maximum award. TAP parity aids out-of-state students as well as New York residents. Since it creates a larger total amount of financial aid resources, funding such as scholarships and grants can be ' • ' • • • 4 ,. .., .... !\o-' ..... c ' ••••••• ~ ••• • • redistributed among students ineligible for TAP. The bill, however, was passed for only the 1984-85 school year instead of the proposed four years. The I.S.C. will work for the continuation of this revision. Their efforts will probably include a petition from Union students and a letter drive similiar to those of last year's successful campaigh. !.S.C. focuses on financial issues because they are among the most threatened and most legitimate student concerns. Undergraduates are not the only beneficiaries of these e£- forts. One of the nine standing committees of the I.S.C. is the Graduate-Professional advi· sory body. That group identifies the problems of graduate students and in the coming year the I.S.C will add graduate ~inancial aid programs to their goals. The Board of Directors is making long range plans as well. In November of 1985, the federal gov.ernment will evaluate its education policies and must reauthorize existing programs if they <m' to con- tinur. Organizations with student interests, including the I.S.C., will emphasize the im- portance of federal assistance and fight for continued research and aid projects. The !.S.C.'s strength is founded in the co-ordination of ideas of students across the state. Such a combination of the best student thoughts should lead to further success for I. S.C. and its constituency. u :::::r 0 -+ 0 c;; '< 0 a. u :::::r :J t!) n :::::r <C a. <Jt

c/) ro .'!! .c v OJ c: .c 0. ro 0 >. jJ 0 .... 0 .c 0. CONCORDJENS/S, O<:tober 25, ]984 Forum Meets ••• Campus Issues Discussed The Student Forum met .last Monday to discuss current issues of student concern. By MARCY BURSTIN·ER The Student Forum met Monday night to discuss and vote on several issues con- cerning the campus com· munity. Among the matters brought up were the \Gel-time\ proposal, the Winter term vacation proposal, the IFC Escort Service,. Pub and Skeller closing hours, and insurance policies for fraternities. -Gel-time- Last week the proposed ···Gel- Professor Flemming Presents New Ideas By JEFF BERKOWITZ Staff Professor Flemming is a visiting English professor. This term she is teaching Arthurian Romance, although she believes the title should be Arthurian Legend, because romance is a · misleading term. Professor Flemming explained that romance in the middle ages dealt with tales of adventure about knights and knighthood, often with an element of magic, while English Arthurian romances were preoccupied with kingship. Flemming also teaches Expository Writing this term. Professor Flemming received her Ph.D. from Boston University with a specialty in the literature .of the Middle Ages in England: that period roughly between 1066 (the Norman Conquest) and 1540, which includes Chaucer, author of the Canterbury Tales. However, Flemming does not limit herself to any one time period. She is also interested in the literature of other places and ---periods, particularly in modern drama and in modern poetry. Flemming is currently finishing an article on The Prioress' Tale (Chaucer) to present at a conference later this fall. Professor Flemming's long term research involves editing a series of popular prophecies of the fourteenth century, political and religious prophecies which to some degree resulted from disputes between the kings in Europe and the pope over authority. To complete this work the professor must work with thirteenth and fourteenth century manuscripts, mostly in latin. Travels to Europe To see the manuscripts, Professor Flemming has traveled to libraries in this country, in England, and throughout Europe. When the book is finished, it will trace the history of these prophecies. why they were written, who read them, and what they meant to readers of the fourteenth. and fifteenth centuries. Professor Flemming finds the work in- terest~g and fun, describingit as a kmd of \detective work~' taking her into other disciplines of history. Flemming believes that students are interested in what went on in the Middle Ages, and supports medieval fairs, like the one to be held next weekend ~t the Cathedral of All Saints in Albany. Flemming has come to Union from the State University at Albany: She likes the campus and believes the small size to be a !!-ice change. Flemming also enjoys the students, finding the~ agreeable and quite in· ~elhgent. S~e also enjoys the Idea of havmg a mix of english and non-english majors in her classes. Professor Flemming exude concern, excitement, and a great deal of knowledge and Union students should tak~ advantage of her presence on campus this year. New Prohibition Disputed (CPS )-In one of the most violent episodes yet this fall of nationwide student resistance to strict new drinking policies, as many as 1000 illinois State University students took to the streets in a seven-hour riot last week. The young people, mostly ISU students, flocked from campus to city hall on October 4th, pelting police with rocks and breaking store and office windows, officials report. Other protestors staged a sit- in at a' downtown theater and threw rocks at police at- tempting to remove them. Traffic on a nearby highway also was disrupted by partying protestors equipped with a keg of beer, observers say. Local and state police broke up the seven-hour disturbance with tear gas about 2:30 a.m. following three arrests and a plea to students from rsu President Lloyd Wallace to stop demonstrating. Officials report no serious injuries. Officials note new city 'laws governing the use of alcohol and making students get permits for parties are being enforced for the first time this fall. \There have been reports of a number of spontaneous parties with 2000 or 3000 people who take over whole neigh- borhoods,\ explains Steve Mahrt, the city lawyer. \And there are thousands of students out at night, roaming neigh- borhoods, drinking beer. Occasionally, a few get drunk and vandalize property.\ Similiar crackdowns are occurring on other campuses this fall as civil authorities move to curb off-campus partying, and enforce new drinking regulations and laws. At the University of Texas at El Paso, disorderly conduct charges were filed against Phi Kappa Tau fraternity President Dan Sosa when the frat's neigh- bors complained about a noisy party. The fraternity, which is ap- pealing a prior disorderly conduct conviction as well as the current charge, phins to relocate. Regulations Enforced More frequent Southwest Missouri State University police patrols are enforcing drinking regulations with a new law allowing them to arrest students on suspicion of a misdemeanor. Thanks to recent hikes in the minimum drinking age and new regulations designed to minimize campuses's legal liability for student behavior, milder protests have erupted at Wisconsin, North Carolina State, Indiana, St. Bonaventure and Florida, among dozens of schools, in recent weeks. The ISU crackdown netted over 300 violators in August and September, says Normal City Hall spokesman Mahrt. There were only 17 in May and June. But all the violatiops stem- med from the city's public posession of alcohol ordinance, not the new mass gathering law which requires permits for public gatherings of 300 or more, Mahrt reports. \We haven't had a single party disturbance this fall,\ agrees Richard Godfrey, ISU director of institutional ad- vancement and Normal mayor. ''And the frats have had no problem wi~h the ordinance. It's ve~y easy to comply with.\ Some students questioned the ordinance's summer passage claiming few students were o~ campus then, but Godfrey recalls ISU student leaders joined discussions of the measure last spring. And the demonstration, ad- vertised through leaflets and the campus newspaper, was not endorsed by the student government, lie adds. Most protestors had no idea why they were there, he maintains. \I went into the crowd to talk to the protestors,',, he says. ''An extremely small percentage of people were there to be destructive. Lots were around because it was something to do on a warm October night.\ Officials are prepared for more demonstrations; but \we don't anticipate any,\ Godfrey says. \Some students have even suggested taking up a collection to pay for damages.\ Time\ schedule was formerly approved by the Academic Affairs Council ( AAC) ac- cording to AAC representative Tom Megerian. The vote was made contingent upon the results of the campus poll taken Monday. Megerian explained that although the poll would not act as a veto to the AAC vote, student opinion would be taken into account. It was also suggested that a dry run on the computer would be conducted to make certain that the schedule would werk in practice. A campus-Wide student FJOll was conducted by the Student Forum on Monday in Carnegie Hall. After all the votes were counted, 109 students were in favor of the schedule change, 589· were opposed to it, and 13 remained undecided. Many comments were sub- mitted on the ballots, according to Forum President Steve Benson. He explained that the comments would be cempiled and the results of the poll would be presented to the faculty and administration at the faculty conference on Wednesday of this week. Other issues on the AAC agenda for this year include academic honesty, faculty course load reduction, and the formation of a committee compose_d of faculty, students, and administrators to develop a college computer policy. -Winter vacation proposal· Last week the Student Forum voted down a Student Mfairs Council (SAC) proposal·to in- clude a short vacation period during winter term. The proposal was reintroduced for discussion by the SAC representatives on Monday night. Most students were not against the concept of a winter vacation break, but were op- posed to having the term begin four days earlier this January, one Forum member explained. The SAC . asked th~t the Forum reconsider their vote, one SAC representative com- mented. If the Forum wished to reconsider a vacation in the winter schedule in future years, such a change would be more difficult in light of the negative vote last week. Students were mainly opJ!losed to a change affecting the current school year, Senior Trustee Shari Midoneck remarked, and might be more willing to consider the matter if it would take effect next year. Midoneck also suggested a campus poll similar to the one conducted for the Gel~ Time proposal. . -Early Closings- The Interfraternity Council ( IFC) took up the issue of early Pub and Skellar closings at their meeting last week, ac- cording to IFC representative Roger Harris. Apparently, the reason for the early closings stems from the belief that 1: 00 a.m. was a reasonable hour for students to return home. Unfortunately, it has been discovered that students do not go home at that hour, rather they go to ·off campus bars or travel north to Saratoga, 6Harris explained. The IFC · is lobbying for ex- tended hours in the Pub and Skeller and has sppoken to Dean Mammola on the matter. Student Forui:n members agreed that the Forum should also take a stance.. They noted that many complaints on the early closings had peen made by students in recent weeks. Benson explained Tuesday that he had also spoken to Mammola and that a compromise might soon be reached. Harris then brought up the issue of the IFC Escort Service. He explained that the service had been discontinued because it was underU:tilized by the campus ami not from lack of enthusiasm or effort on the part of the IFC. The council is considering the possibility of starting the ser- vice again sometime in the future. During winter term, an escort service might be more beneficial to students because of the shorter daylight hours. The third matter brought up by the IFC was insurance policies for fraternities. It was decided last year that all fraternities must have their own policies and the deadline has been set for winter term, according to Harris. A t the University of Rochester's Graduate School of Management you can manage your career with a highly respected M.B.A. With our wide variety of financial aid and loan programs, you can manage your finances, too. So, take charge, and manage your way to a top quality management ~ducation. SEE OUR REPRESENTATIVE Our representative will be at your placement office Nov. 5, 9:00 am-12:00 noon FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CALL TOLL FREE: From anywhere in the u.s. 1·800 -621 ·QOg 5 outstde N.Y. State call: · • From within N.Y. State call: 1·800·_462-0073 Call toll free during these hours: Monday- Friday. . .. .. . . 8:30a.m.- 5:00p.m. Tuesday . . . . . . . . . . . . • . 5:00 p.tn.- 10:00 p.m. Saturday ........ : . ..•. 10:00 a.m.- 2:00p.m. THE UNIVI:RSITY OF ROCHESTER GRADIJATE SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT Rochester, NV 14627 Any.undergraduate major can qualify you as an M.B.A. candidate.

at or he he of ~r­ an re se ·s. llp ce as lll !ir 1e n, CONCORDIENSIS, OctfJba 25. 1984 PageS ROTC Opinions Explored Continued from page 1 presented here. They are the result of a series of interviews conducted with faculty and ROTC students. Professor Sorum, chairman of the classics department, does not believe the ROTC courses should be given recognition. She believes that the courses taught by HOTC are necessarily diametrically opposed to the type of courses taught at Union in its capacity as a liberal arts college. She says,. \The goals of a liberal education are an- tithetical to tbe goals of a military education in every way:\ Goals Opposed Sorum clarifies her views of the goals of a liberal arts college: -\I look at the purpose of a liberal education to teach people how to examine various ways in which the world. is structured--ethical systems, moral systems, judgments about the validity of experience, to teach people and to en- courage each person to ac- cumulate the necessary in- formation to create their own personal system. I also think the purpose of an education is to teach individuals how to question authority, all types of authority, and if necessary to reform or resist that authority.\ Sorum also believes that \the goals of the military seem to necessarily do the opposite. There is an inevitable conflict in any jux- taposition in these two systems.\ Sorum understands the purpose of ROTC and says ~hat she \fully understands the need for an army.\ Sorwn does not believe ROTC as a whole is a bad program . which . shouid be elintlinated altogether. She just believes it has no place as a major component of a liberal arts college such as Union and there is no reason to encourage its existence by granting recognition of ROTC courses. Professor Weiner, Chairman of the Sociology and Anthropology Department, shares some of Professor Sorum's views, but he believes ROTC - courses should be evaluated as any other transfer credit. He sees the con- tradiction between the-military and liberal arts styles of education, but he believes an ROTC course should not be disregarded simply because it involves the military. Weiner's Views Weiner reiterates some of Sorum's thoughts when he states, \In general, the pur- poses of ROTC are con- tradictory to those of higher education.\ Referring to the era of the late 1960's, he continues, \I thought the purposes of ROTC and the university were' mutually contradictory. Not all that much has happened in the last twenty years to change my mind.\ On the other hand, Weiner believes that if the ROTC courses are academic, they should be given credit. He says, \If one takes a course with academic content in it, they sh_ould get credit for it! If the course deserves credit in a university setting, it shoUld be given credit. ROTC courses should not be discriminated against if they have academic content.\ Weiner continues, \The lit- mus test is if a non-ROTC student took the course -would they be given credit for it. If the course is a university level course that would conceivably even be part of our curriculum, then we should certainly give academic credit.\ He believes that an ROTC course that is academic in nature ought to be accepted for credit by Union because it would be if it was not ROTC. Professor Phaup, Chairman of the Economics Department, believes ROTC courses should be recognized on the traQscript. He believes the compromise proposed by the AAC-to grant recognition, but not credit-is a fair and reasonable resolution. Phaup states, \The proposal bdore the AAC regarding ROTC seems reasonable to me in that it meets the needs of students who would like to go to Union College. It does not represent any sacrifice of Union's standards with respect to admission or academic performance and in that it seems to clearly limit our commitment to ROTC.\ Phaup believes granting recognition of ROTC courses does npt compromise the school in any way. He believes it is very little to ask of the school, and it can go a long way in helping ROTC students continue at Union. He says about the proposal, \It will keep the NROTC (Navy} happy and keep them off our students' backs.\ ROTC member Liesel Golden believes ROTC students should be granted cours~;J credit because of the nature of the courses. She does not think the AAC proposal goes far enough- \ Putting it on the Union tran- script is nothing.\ Students Overloaded Golden elaborates, ~<Every freshman, sophomore, junior, and senior takes an overload of at least two courses a trintlester.''.During the last two years of undergraduate study they take courses such as Business Management and Defense Policy, to name two in particular. Golden says, \We feel they are comparable to courses here at Union.\ Golden believes ROTC students' needs are being disregarded because of the political nature of the situation. She describes her view of the attitudes of the decision-makers at Union, \They're not listening to what we have to say, they just want to decide among them- selves. Emotionally they don't want us to have credit, but they should really be basing it on what we take, not on their feelings toward the military.\ Golden proposes a system in which Air Force ROTC students, who are all engineers, can get two credits toward their six free electives. They will take the place of two of the e~ective courses, but not count toward liberal learning, like an X course, such as independent study. She says this is a fair compromise, RPI currently gets about six credits for ROTC courses. · John Donnelly, who is \second class petty officer'' for Navy ROTC, is in charge of organizing Navy ROTC students on campus. He believes that ROTC .students should get credit because the courses take a lot of time and they are academic in nature. Donnelly evaluates his participation in ROTC, \It's not an extracurricular activity; I'm giving a lot of years of my life. It's not for everyone and the people it is for shouldn't be classified in an extracurricular activity. There's a lot more merit in it than that..it's a serious business.\ Donnelly personally believes the ROTC courses he takes are academic and that he should be given credit for them. Fairness Re.quested At this point all he asks is a fair evaluation performed by the administrators of the college. He states, \If nothing else, the college should look into it. I'm part of Union College and they should know what we're doing.\ Eric Cook, Se:nior Navy ROTC student on campus, holds a very different view. He believes the courses he takes are not comparable to those at Union, and that he should not be granted credit for them. Cook actually states, \I don't think we should get credit for navy courses because they're not really academic.\ In response to the proposal of having the courses listed on the transcript, Cook states, \I don't really care that it's on the transcript.\' He rationalizes that he would still have to get a copy of his transcript from RPI if he wanted to try to get some credit value out of the courses. All non-army ROTC students are cross-enrolled at RPI, and they already are granted credit, but the credit does not count at Union. Cook states that he received three credits for a navigation course, as well as three for naval operatioQS. What these credits can be used for remains unclear. In conclusion, it can be stated that the AAC proposal to recognize ROTC courses on the transcr~pt has stirred up a lot of controversy. All the different aspects of the situation must be taken into account before a final resqlution can be reached. The Schenectady City Hal'l will soon get a new tower. Repairs Planned For City Hall By BETH LEVINE Staff The City Hall of Schenectady remains topless because of last year's fire which destroyed the clock tower. Despite plans to construct an exact duplicate of the original tower, it is only now that blueprints are being given to the city for a first review on the reconstruction. Th~re was no copy of the original blueprints and making a replication is a difficult ar-. chitectural project. John G. Waite, from Mendel, Mesick,. Cohen and Waite, an A:lbany architectural firm, has con- tracted to undertake the task of copying the previous tower. A few fragments remained after the hour long blaze on October 4, 1983. These remnants and old photographs and drawings were used to put together an outward picture. \Because we had to duplicate not only the external ap- pearance but also the con- struction, the structural system that supported the tower,\ explained Waite. The inner support system cannot he reconstructed with old pictures. The New York HistoricalSociety, in New York City, help.ed Waite when the drawings.which were made by the original architects were found in the society's archives. Evidently, the original designers of the firm, McKim, Meade and White created an architecturally significant building for its period. \They took into account the per- spective of a passer-by,\ said Waite. A tower that is actually 70 feet high does not seem disproportionate from the street. Only by looking at the blueprints does the scale of the tower, two times the height of City Hall, become apparent. The tower must be rebuilt according to the early 1930's original blueprint because it is on the historic register. Two minor changes will occur in updating the code and putting in more fire res:stant trails. The bulk of the original material was wood and sheet metal. The eagles and garlands which decorated the tower were composed of plaster and cement. The fire most likely started because workmen were cleaning the copper sheeting on the tower with torches. Authorities believe that the heated copper probably set the wood on fire. Area residents can soon expect to see a new top on the \topless\ Schenectady City Hall. All students are invited to participate in 11 TASTE'' (Take A Student To. Eat) Sponsored by the Schenectady Alumni Club Union alumni and their families will host Union students for dinner on JY\onday, November 12 • Tuesday, November 13 Wednesday, November 14 Sign-ups will be on a first-come, first-served basis, and all students wishing to participate should register at the Alumni Office, Lam.o'nt House by October 31. Ill ro Ol .s: v (!) !: .s: 0. ro a >- _Q 0 0 .s: 0.

Page6 Human Rights Discussion Table First meeting November 1st Every Thursday in the Pub 12:30-1 :00 Th~is week's discussion: Are Mondale & Reagan Different? Led by Prof. Terry Weiner All are welcqme to attend PROGRAM IN AMERICAN MARITIME STUDIES . . F.\l.l. Sl-.:\11- \i l ER m Sl'Rl:\\(. \>1-.:\ll s II R CONCORDIENSIS, o,·rober 25, 1984 Union Cdl~fi'/m~mHee Pre~: ,Oct. Jb)d1~ d'8 \\'ll.l.IA:\IS COLLE(;!·. <<>Ill,<·~ J.tuglll ;11 :'I!Y'> I!(. '>I· \!'(_)R I ,\!l\'-.J l':\I 1) q l J) . . LUNCH MEET! NG FOR INTEREST·ED STUDENTS WITH PROGRAM REPRESENTATIVE: THURSDA~ 8 NOVEMBER 12:30 PM 2ARNEGIE HALL: CONFERENCE ROOM A Interdisciplinary Program Grant Union has received a two-year, $90,407 grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities to design and im- plement a new interdisciplinary program in the humanities. The program consists of three courses collectively titled \The United States and the Spanish- speaking World: Understanding 2oth Century Connections.\ By exploring the historical, literary, philosophical, artistic and cultural connections among the U.S., Spain and Latin America, it aims to provide ·a coherent and rigorous in- troduction to the study of humanities which emphasizes the shared aspects of cultures as well as the areas in which they clash. The three courses, one of which will be offered each term next year, will be team-taught by faculty from five depart- ments. Their work will be supplemented by guest speakers, films, writers, artists and tours as appropriate. The six faculty are: Associate Professor of English Harry Marten; Assistant Professor of English James McCord; Assistant Professor of Sociology Martha Huggins; Washington Irving Professor in Modern Literary and Historical Studies Manfred Jon as; Associate Professor of Political Science Byron Nichols; and Associate Professor' of Spanish Judith Ginsberg. Adjunct Assistant Professor Catherine Krebs is assisting with the planning while Ginsberg is on sabbatical. \The concept is as exciting for the faculty as we hope it will be for the students,\ said Marten, also program director. \Planning the program is forcing us out of our com- fortable areas of specialization into areas in which we have to learn a great deal. In addition to our own group and the faculty from other departments, we plan to invite outside specialists to explore the issues raised by the courses with us. \The students, on their part, will be challenged to consider issues they will confront in the real world, outside Union's boundaries,\ Marten continued. \We hope they will come to recognize that art, literature, history and culture are rarely insular; instead, that issues like cultural identity and even prejudice are common to most artists at most times.\ FOR FURTHER INFORMATION sgE DgAN WILLIAM DAN.fgLs APPLICATION ogADLINE: FEB, 8 tiCl\GtS-. $1 I I I I I I

v WOMEN I, C' E By AMYOPP·ENHEIMER Staff Last spring term my new roommate ran up to me, ob- viously very psyched about something. \Hey. I am the new co-chairman of the film com- mittee!\ I thought that ·was great, but I became very puzzled. How could someone with such a highbiology GPA be so confused? I knew my roommate could not possibly be a chairman: She is a woman not a man. I knew the problem could not be due to any inadequacy in the biolo-gy department (I hope). The problem rests, . very uneasily, with words. Our language is not expressing what we mean. I can hear you already, you are saying·-\but the term chairman is generic, I don't mean to imply she is a man!\ Good point, why change all those great form letters from ''Congratulations new chair- man ... \ t.o \Congratulations new chair, or chairwoman or chairperson ... \ Why then have several all women's colleges changed their alum group titles from alumnae (for women) to alumni (for men) immediately upon admitting men? In this TBE J:t...SCOOPOF YOUR FAVOR\T ·-·~ .. FLAVOR ----'__:;,.:...-'--- ~- ICECREAM Hor CHOCOLATE. ('ONCORD!ENSIS. October 25. 1984 Page 7 case alumni is assumed to be generic, it refers to both women and men. Why did these alumnae groups feel the need to change? And I have more questions: How can you tell the difference between a woman aFJd a .girl? I hear you say, \same dif- ference,\ or \what difference does it make\? It makes a difference. The way in which we identify something reflects and guides our conception of it. If I think men have higher status I will perceive higher status in an alumni association. If the definition of a woman is \better\ than that of a girl, I will value a woman more highly. What do youthrnk of when you hear the word woman? What images rise in your mind? Now what do you think when you hear the word girl? C. Miller and K. Swift (The Handbook of Non-Sexist Writing) say ''woman\ connotes \in- dependence, competence and . seriousness of purpose as well as sexual maturity. Because these qualities in women are often seen as threatening, some people shy away from the very word, as though it were taboo, and use alternatives like lady, girl, and gal as euphemisms .... \ Woman, according to Miller and Swift, has become a \strong positive term, like man con- noting responsible adulthood.\ (p. 77). Lakoff (1973) argues that the term woman in definition represents a strong well developed individual, a definition which is degraded with the substitution of the term lady. Girl typically has a less favorable definition. Miller and Swift say that girl has \ ... psychic overtones of im- maturity and dependence .... \ Lakoff contrasts woman and girl. The use of girl stresses \the ideal of iirunaturity, it removes the sexual con- notations lurking in woman ... ( girl is preswnably) flattering to women because of its stress on youth. But there are pitfalls in recalling _youth frivolity and immaturity, girl brings to mind irresp~R­ sibHity ... The users of English have assigned women to a very unflattering place in their minds, a woman is a person who is both too immature and too far from real life to be entrusted with responsibilities and decisions of any serious nature.\ You might be saying now, \yes but when Isay girl I don't mean aU these things-it's just the word I use.\ I think that what you are unconsCiously saymg and what is up- consciously being interpreted is the above definition. Lakoff wonders what our actions will be like if, even unconsciously, this is the place girls have in our minds and we refer to our- selves, and are referred to as girls: I also wonder. Professor Jack Lipton gives some insight into the above question. Lipton (1984) con- ducted a study to investigate the effects of sexist labeling. Men and Women were asked to judge and evaluate an artist and a series of paintings. The artist was identified as female or male at different levels. \Low status\ labels-guy-girl, \High status\ labels-woman-man, and neutral labels-person-person were used. Lipton found in- teraction between the labels and the artist's sex but not as expected. The work of the female artist was devalued except when she was called a person. In comparison, the work of the male artist was upgraded except when he was called a person. Lipton offers one explanation for this. He has noted that there is a tendency to label successful males as chairmen, an- chormen, etc., while successful women are labeled chairperson, anchorperson, and so on. Thus, women as persons are valued more hightly than as women or girls. Lipton attributes the drop in valuing males as persons to an \emasculting'' effect. Person is associated as a female label so when a male is Continued on page 8 The world is waiting. Bean exchange student. International Youth Exchange, a Presidential Initiative for peace, sends teenagers like you to live abroad with host families. Go to new schools. Make new friends. . If you're between 15 and 19 and want to help bring our world together, send for information. Write: YOUTH EXCHANGE Pueblo, Colorado 81009 !!The Intf'mational Youth Exchange. . Professor Robert Sharlet, Politica·l Science department, authority ·on Soviet and Eastern Europe affairs. Views ·Of ·By BETSY TREITLER Features Editor He travelled to the Soviet Union and Europe and can communicate in Russian, Czech, Slovak, French and of course English. His written repertoire ranges from chap- ters in books to essays and journal articles to complete books. He has attended con- ferences and participated in panel discussions. He is an authority on comparative politics in Russia and East European governments specifically in the sphere of jurisprudence. Professor Robert .Sharlet's studies are perpetual and his enthusiasm for learning is imparted to his students of political science at Union. Sharlet started in college with ambitions of being a writer and actually started to compose his first novel. This interest did not last, however, and eventually he enlisted in the ''Army Security Agency\-a branch of army intelligence. He took advantage of the program which offered one year of language training so as to continue academic study. He chose to study the Czechoslovak language. Simultaneously, he worked on classified research. And it was at this point that his interest in problems within the Soviet bloc was confirmed. It was when he returned to college at Brandeis that he decided to plan to combine his interest in the Soviet block with a career as a professor. His pursuit clearly was toward enrichment of the ''life of the mind.\ Years were spent studying; some on fellowship at Indiana University where he earned his Ph.D. in Soviet Legal Theory, and on the post-graduate level at Moscow University Law School where he studied jurisprudence and legal philosophy. He lived in Russia in a private room in one of several dorms built under Stalin for the \elites.\ He studied in Russia under the guidance of a Soviet advisor. Sharlet sup- plemented rigorous study with cultural expeditions to per- formances and programs of Russian arts. Cultural enrich- ment provided Sharlet with insight into the nature of Russian society. Knowledge through study and life experience in Russian society continues to be a source drawn upon by Sharlet. He also continues to learn about the Russian bloc through meeti.Ilgs with USSR Law Professors who often travel to the US and on occasion appear on the SUNY Russia Albany campus. \They don't want to make a mistake especially during transitional phases of govern- ment,\ explained Sharlet. He continues to assert that the Professors are Often 'cir- cumspect' and clearly prefer to discuss their discipline and Russian sodety in terms of their own families. They discuss eollege-study and employment and Russian life to an extent and in so doing emphasize the specialization, an integral part of the Russian community. The Professors in turn seek answers to their own questions about the American political system and way of life. Sharlet's most recent theory, the \contra-system\ (a term coined by Sharlet), which will be the subject of an upcoming conference in Switzerland, is essentially a response to Russian dissidents. The theory proposes an \alternative to the official system.\ It includes such ideas as a second economy which resembles, in part, the black market. Sharlet focuses in on the \Contra-elite\ and views dissent as \a form of non- conformist behavior.\ \Russians are like Americans as people--but they are xenophobic\ explained Sharlet. He pointed out that the dissidents present a danger to the Russians because essen- tially they profess foreign ideas about living which are precisely the ideas which the Communist Party wants to ignore. Sharlet considered Gromyko' s visit to America as a final thought about Russian actions and attitudes. He noted that the current Russian policy is essentially isolationist. This is, in part, because the US \deployed a new generation of missiles in Europe and they want us to withdraw.\ These cruise missiles essentially fly low and thus are often not detected by radar. This presents a threat to the Russians, and consequently they are not negotiating. Sharlet pointed out that Gomyko really was here \to probe\ and that the Russians eventually will \come back to the table to negotiate, despite US weapons in Europe, when they've achieved whatever they believe they can get out of the stalemate.\ The Russians are essentially looking for respect as peer in honor of thier military parity with the US. Right now, noted Sharlet, they need a new stable leadership and then they will think more about US-USSR policy. After all, Sharlet asserts, \not talking to us is not a policy.\ II) .c 0 u ro -. <lJ ~ ~ > .c 0 - 0 .r; Q.

FEATURES 1984: Social Darwinism? l By DAVID FITZGERALD Features Editor On Wednesday October 16 former Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm gave a very powerful speech on the role of women and minorities in the 1984 presidential campaign. Shirley Chisolm was able to bring her own experiences into her speech because in 1972 she was the first black woman to make a serieus attempt to run for the office of president. the nation and the court that will last into the next century. Ronald Reagan has changed not only the government but also the flow of wealth. Chisholm believes that he is taking wealth away from the poor and the middle class and giving it to the HAVES. The gains that both women and minorities have \Social Darwinism is now in action in the Orwellian year of 1984.\ made in the .past years have been erroded. The single reason why it is so important to mobilize and set people involved is that the source of political power is V -0- T-E-8. Chisholm believes that it is important for people that are or could be affected by the polical system should vote. It is important for .people to be in- volved in politics because it does have an effect and it is not really all that difficult to set involved. \Politics in Amevica is like a television that you cannot turn off.\ Chisholm concluded her speech with a recap of the harm .that the Reagan administration has done. \He is fighting a war in Central America . . . destroyed the environment . . . and made half of the children in the United States live in poverty.\ \I am interested in the politics of the here and now and people are in trouble. Social Darwinism is now in action in the Orwellian year of 1984.\ Happy -~-lowe en! Big Brothers Big Sisters FALL HAYRIDE-Friday, October 26 at Van Etten's Christmas tree farm. Meet at the Big-Brothers-Big Sisters office at 6:00 p~m. Cost is $1.50 per person. All Bigs & Littles are invited. There will be a campfire, you bring the cider and hot dogs will be provided. Please call our office by October 22 if you plan to come. HALLOWEEN .PARTY All Big Brothers and Big Sisters. Group Volunteers, and Little Brothers and Little Sisters are invited to the Annual Halloween Party sponsored by Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity. It will be held on Sunday, October 28 from 1:30-3:30 p.m. There will be prizes for best costumes, apple dunking, games and lots of candy. Please call our office and let us know if you are planning to attend. SUNDAY GROUP LEADERS This year the Group Counselors are Citra Stokes, Jennifer Sconyers, Fred Rothberg, and Ira Levy. They have organized a fun-filled term for the more than 35 local children who at- tend the Group Program. Thanks for your dedication and hard work. Senior, La;urie Segal, is working with the Sunday Group Program this year as a prac- ticwn placement with Professor Girdner of the Psychology Department. She will work with the children and volunteers on a weekly basis. SUNDAY ·GROUP VOLUNTEERS If you have not filled out your application .form yet, you must do so as soon as possible. We have a large number of volunteers this year, and we need to begin to process your application. Please give them to the Sunday Group leaders when you arrive. Oct. 21-27--National Businesswomen's Week The speech began with Chisholm taking her audience down \memory lane.\ She told of the history of some of the previous races for president and the personalities in them. When Chisolm reached the present election \. . . this Orwellian year of 1984 ... \ she told of the plight that many people in this country are facing. She said that the Reagan administration had made a \ ... mockery of arms control, . . . created unemployment lines around the block, ... and for the first time millions of familie~ and millions of children are experier.cing poverty.'' Incumbents are always optimistic ... Women and Independence ... Oct. 25--\Wom.en in the Politi.cal Process,'' Maude ,Easter, lobby-ist for NOW. First Unitarian Church, 370· 3902. \Incumbents are always optimistic . . . \ Chisholm said when speaking about the good feeling that Ronald Reagan is trying to sell in his election campaign. Reagan is telling everyone that things are better and making light of his \swiss cheese safety net\ because incumbents always behave this way when they are running for reelection. Just because the president is saying thaLthings are good it does not mean that he is telling the truth. This election Chisholm believes is a true idealogical contest. In this contest the regional differences that have plagued the country are disappearing. Members of the \New Right\ have learned from the Civil Rights and other movements in the methods used to register voters and they are working hard. \I have traveled all over this country and I have seen them out there registering voters.\Chishohn sees the signs of the country becoming more polarized. Not only has the right mobilized but the people that call themselves liberals have become more moderate. ''The face of liberals has changed.\ No longer do we hear liberals discussing the possibilities of a national health insurance program or a guaranteed in- come to the poor. Liberals today want better government rather than more government. One of the major outcomes of the 1984 election is that the next president will have the op- portunity to nominate a large number of Supreme Court judges. According to Chisholm this will have an impact upon Continued from page 7 connected with a female label he is seen as ~'less male\ and is valued lower or as low as girl. I will add my own hypothesis to this. The labels woman and girl were both far below those of guy and man. If woman has a more fully developed and mature definition then shouldn't woman be valued more highly than girl? The study did indicate a trend in this direction but not of a significant level: Why? Miller and Swift talked about threat and competition causing people to shy away from using the term woman. If the label woman has strength and connotes responsible adulthood, then both men and women may fear competition qom the label and devalue it as they did girl. Who were these subjects? Older people, right? People who do not know about things like equal rights for women. No! They were 60 male and 60 female college students, just like you and me. And, there was no difference between male and female responses. What im- plications does this have for us on campus (and in the rest of the . world)? Ate we unknowingly devaluing women in our speech? How does this make you feel? And, now what are we going to do about it? I prefer the definition of woman especially over that of girl; so does my roommate, now. So, if you mention a woman to my roommate and say girl, please note her reaction, no one likes to be· called ''immature, ELECTION '84 JEWISH ISSUES Everyone is cordially invited to come hear representatives from the Reagan/Bush and Mondale/Ferraro campaigns explain their candidates' positions on Jewish Issues. Tues., Oct. 30 • 8:30p.m. Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Sponsored by JSU ·Monday Night Football Special at the Pub {during game only) Draft Beer--.50 Speed Drink--$1 .. 25 (Bar drink) Football Pool - Prizes at the end () of each quarter U Also: T Dinner Special in the Dutch Hollow Monday-Friday from 5·7 p.m. .-... Steak, Baked Potato .,...., and Salad--$2.95 ti()LL()W irresponsible, and dependent.\ Words have non-lingual side effects. The problem is far reaching, and in Lipton's words, may encompass \such areas as education, employment, in- terpersonal relations, and child development.\ Our words, the labels we give, have a great impact upon our actions. Once again I can hear some of you saying, \but I don't say or mean these things, and I don't devalue women.\ I hope not. \Women Voice is, by its design, a colwnn to reflect the women of the college and community. Anyone wishing to contribute to the column and its calendar, please contact Karla Hanson, Box 1024. Oct. 25 and EVERY THUR- SDAY--\Women's Support Group,\ Women's Network Room, Carnegie, 5-7 p.m. Oct. 25 and EVERY THUR- SDAY--Women's Network Meeting, Women's Network Room, Carnegie, 8 p.m. Oct. 30--Women's Volleyball vs. Hamilton, Plattsburgh, 6:30p.m. Oct. 31--\Women in Horror Fiction,\ Judith Johnson- Sherwin, SUNY at Albany, HU 354, 12:15p.m. N.ov. 3 & 10·-\ Assertiveness Training Workshop,\ registration before Oct. 28, 270·2306, Cost $50. Nov. 4-- Teresa Trull and Barbara Higbie at the Iron Horse Cafe, Northampton, MA, (413) 584·3177. Semi-Formal Cocktail Party on Friday, October 26 TOMORROW lO:oo p.m. at DELTA CHI· On corner of Nott St. and Lenox Rd. See us at the Northway Mall/Off Price Center: Nov. 14th thru Dec. 23rd \THE JEWELRY GALLERIES OF ALBANY\ I(Where gold & silver are always half-price\ We feature 14K solid gold & sterling Silver <Sold by weight) • Chains • Bracelets • Charms • Rings • Earrings Thousands of pieces to choose from year round! Diamonds and Precious Stones • Austria A Crystal • Turquoise • Fashion Jewelry November 7 &8· Wed. & Thurs.· 9a.m.-4p.m. Union College in Carnegie Center Hall Cash, Check, VISA, Mastercard & Lay-a-way Plan Stop by and see us for 50% Savings & save ad for free gift with purchase of $20 or more

d d e . ' . 1 ~ ~ . - ... ~ - \' ~ ..... ,. .. ' ~ - . ~ ...... ,. ..... ,_ ..... ~ ~ ~ ... - .. ·- .. - ....._ ., . <. -~ . ., ..... -- ... -- _ .......... -~ ... -- ,._ . CONCORDIENSJS, October 25, !984 Page 9 --------------------------------~~~~~~~----~-------------------------------- HALLOWEEN Skell,er Massacre By CHRIS SILER Staff As I wander about the campus on my first Halloween at Union, the words of my cousin seem to echo in my head. The chill in the air 'is much like the chill that ran down. my spine when I realized that tonight marks the loth anniversary of the Skeller Massacre. Few, even today, will speak of the terror that reigned when a Dean of Students went crazy. My cousin was a member of the class of '85 and once told me in a hushed whisper of the terrible night. For some twisted reason I decided to walk by where this Skellar used to be. I left the safety of the stairs of the Student Center and headed out across library field. It was beginning to drizzle and I wished I was driving, but Union . had become a walking campus a few years back. I glanced up at the sky in hopes of catching sight ·Of the full moon, but in- stead saw the Nott. I thought of how nice the Nott was looking with the new renovations beginning, but how my cousin refused to come see it. Terrible memories. kept her away. Rounding the Old Chapel building, I stopped dead in my tracks. There I saw a narrow stairway leading down to a doorway that was boarded up and marked \Condemned\. Here is where it all happened. According to my cousin, it was 1 :00 a.m. at this Skeller on a Halloween night. A good time was being had by all, and at such an early hour everyone refused to leave. No one thought anything of the horribly- masked man who entered until .he pulled out a knife and began rambling about rules and authority. Was this a joke? I remember my cousin shud- dering when she recalled the sight of two rugby players losing their heads in one sweep, as \American Pie\ blared on the juke box. People were screaming as this man went on a rampage-bludgeoning Skell:er rats left and right. Finally a navy ROTC cadet dressed in camouflage for Halloween was able to ap- prehend the man and unmasked hiril-revealing him to be Dean Mammola. Needless to say, the dean was carted away and the campus community was left stunned with a blood-spattered Skellar and twenty ·dead students. Now the Skeller is a legend. Rumor has it that every year on Halloween night at .1:00 a.m., the juke box starts, the walls· bleed, and the spirits rise up for a friendly game of quarters and a toast to our ahna mater. Get Your Treat come to DELTA UPSILON'S 69th ANNUAL Halloween Party on Sat., Oct. 27th 10 p.m.·? Prizes awarded for best costumes leather and steel recommended .....-wELCOME........._.. to 4\JTLU.Ler 'I ill1e FEATUR·ES The entra nee to the Union College plot in Vale Cemetary Where the Ghosts Hover • • • By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Staff Union College has always been proud of its landmarks: the Nott Memorial, the Whipple Bridge, and Jackson's Gardens. In addition to these more popular landmarks, there exists another locale of Union History: the Union plot at Vale Cemetary. Over one h people have been three and a half acre is located in the cernet:ar; northwest section. Of those buried, three have been past Union presidents; Eliphalet Nott, Harrison Webster, and Carter Davidson. Some forty- four faculty members are also buried there, including Issac W. Jackson, Edward Everett Hale, and Charles Garris. · Discussion on the creation of the . burial ground began as early as 1850. The grounds were originally designed as an honorarium to \The men who had a chance to speak out ... to young men at the most im- pressionable period of life.\ 8Happy8 Halloween .. .'':-~ •• ,i<= . :;.·~ .. (From the Alumni magazine of Feb. 1926). When originally proposed, much support existed for the idea. However, there remained much discussion on the location of the burial site. Two .choices existed, between a plot one half mile north of North College, and the Vale Cemetary Plot. The three acre plot at Vale cemetary wa..s finally sel.ect:ed, the or the staff member. The ghost of Jackson's Gardens Hiding in an apparent guise of anonimity has been the rwnoured \ghost of Jackson's Gardens.\ Numerous incidents have been reported of footsteps in the Gardens and of doors opening and closing in North Collee:e with the absence of wind. In 1972, a piece appeared in the Idol which explained the origins of oc:- ghost, Miss Alice Van der Veer. Miss Van der Veer and her father originally settled in the area in the 1600's in nearby Scotia. Purportedly, the young Van der Veer lass was quite attractive, with many men wanting to court her. the father strongly !iatenect all. night, Alice was caught the Mohawk River with suitors. The enraged killed the lover with a gun, and fled into the of Schenectady. A mob scoured the area, cap- the father, and burning at the stake. confused Alice headed the Union grounds in and her lover's ~h\'\tely, young Alice stumbled in the Hans Groot Kill, where she was caught. She was then burned at the stake, in one of the garden plots located nearby a pine tree. When nights are warm a young woman (Alice) repor- tedly appears before a pine tree in the gardens. Fear not, garden travelers, no one has been reported hurt by the spectre. She is merely looking for the body of her lover, lost some 300 years a~o. ...

Page 10 CONCORDJENSIS, October 25, 1984 ·FEATURES On the Airwaves UyDOUGL~NDQN Publicity WRUC WRUC got off· to a rather slow start this year, but we're now back in full swing with a solid schedule of programming at 100 watts. Jazz highlights every week- day afternoon from 1-4 p.m. A new and upcoming album is featured during the jazz spotlight from 1-2 p.m. each day. Progressive rock,. the station's most popular style of music, can be heard weekday evenings from 4 p.m. until midnight. Often the DJ's on these shows are open to requests and offer promotional contests. opinions about all current! sports topics. Come <me, come all to the WRUC oldies sale this Friday ·afternoon at Carnegie Hall. the station is in the process of selling several thousand 45's and LP's from the 1930's right up through 1980 at dirt cheap prices. The 45's are 25 cents each, 5 for $1 and the LP' s cost $1 apiece, or 6 for just $5. Any questions about the records should be directed to Doug Landon at 370-6687. News director Scott Elkind reminds everyone that news broadcasts can be heard daily at 10 a.m., 12, 3, 6 and 9 p.m., and midnight. Tune in on Thursdays at 6 p.m. for an in- novative news feature. Eric and Doug will Bring you a sort of \week in review\ including news and conunentaries in this new half-hour segment. The Rewards of a Degree Late night jazz follows the progressive shows, from midnight to 2 a.m. and classical is played from 1-6 p.m. on Sundays. Eric Hornick and Scott Wykoff have been doing a great job broadcasting Dutchmen football games every Saturday afternoon. WRUC is the only source of Union football coverage, and should be popular especially during the away games. Eric and Scott's pre-game discussions begin at 1:05 p.m. for the 1:30 games. Sportsline, heard Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays at 7:30 p.m. continues this discussion, as well as facts and Attention ALL WRUC members! A general meeting has been scheduled for Thur- sday, November 8 at 7 p.m. in Stage II, Carnegie Hall. Everyone presently affiliated with the st~tion is urged to attend this meeting, at which two executive board positions will be filled and important policy will be discussed. (CPS)- A college education continues to be a big help in getting a job, according to a newly-released report by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). As of March, 1984, the unemployment rate among college graduates averaged 2. 7 percent, compared to 7.2 .per- cent for high school graduates and 11.6 percent for workers with an eight grade education or less, the report shows. The unemployment rate for college grads this year, moreover, represents a significant drop from the 3.5 percent in 1983, and 3.0 percent in 1982, notes BI..S spokesman Rick Dedens. College graduates make up a majority of the workers in most managerial and professional fields, as well as the bulk of workers in technical and sales occupations. Among professional oc- cupations-health and medical services, Ia w, teaching, engineering, math, and com- puter services-college graduates comprise 78 percenC of the work force, the report reveals. In addition, college graduates make up 43.5 percent of all executive, administrative, and managerial jobs, 36 percent of sales positions, and 33 percent of all technical occupations. For the third consecutive year, the number of college graduates in the labor force rose by more than a million, the report also shows, 600,000 of whom were women. Women graduates, in fact, now comprise 38 percent of all workers with 4 or more years of college, compared to 32 percent in 1970. Over the same period, the report notes, the number of women graduates who work rose from 61 percent to 78 percent. Black female graduates show an even higher employment rate, according to the study, which shows that 88 percent of all black women grads hold jobs. Among white female grads, 77 Biology Club Meeting Thursday, October 25th • 4:30 p.m. Conference Room A, Carnegie We will discuss upcoming trip to Howe Caverns GRADUATE SCHOOL RECRUITMENT The following Graduate Schools will be recruiting and/or having information sessions at Union College. Please sign up at the Career Development Center for an appointment. • Friday, November 2-- Yale School of Organization and Management, University of Chicago Graduate School • Monday, November 5--New England School of Law, University of Rochester Graduate School of Management • Thursday, November 8--Suffolk University Law School, University of Chicago Committee on Public Policy Studies, Pace University o Wednesday, November 14--Rochester Institute of Technology Any student who misses a scheduled interview will be required to write an apology letter to the recruiter. A copy of this letter must be sent to the Career Development Center before he/she would be allowed to participate in further interviews. percent are now employed.· And among male graduates, both white and black, 95 percent are active in tlie labor force. Since, \We don't really ask people their motivations or reasons for being employed,'' the BLS's Dedens says, the report doesn't explain the in- creases in labor force par- ticipation among women and blacks. Until next time, remember to keep the FM dial tuned to 89.7, the oldest college radion station in the country, and, more im- portantly, YOUR station. WRUC. The brothers and pledges of Kappa Sigma pose with the 1983-1984 Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy, shortly after its presentation by President Morris during half time of the Homecoming football game. The cup is awarded annually to the fraternity with the best record in scholarship, intramural athletics, extracurricular activities, and community service. Kappa Sigma won the Brown Cup by placing first among the 16 I FC member fraternities in each of three qualifying categories, a.nd by placing strongly in the fourth. Last Day To Withdraw From a Course-- Tuesday; OctOber 30, 1984 Withdrawal from Courses: With proper notice to the Office of the Registrar, a student may drop a course without penalty (i.e., receive a grade of \W\) during the first six weeks of a term, with his or her adviser's approval. Dropping a course after this results in a grade of \F\ unless the adviser and the Dean's office agree that there are extraordinary persor:~al..-circumstances. In such a case the grade shall be \WP\ or \WF\ depending upon whether the student was passing or failing at the time the course was dropped. A \Failure\ (\F\) shall be posted to a student's record when proper notice of withdrawal from a course is not given to the Registrar. i~FOUR SEASONS CHINESE REST.!) URrJ.NT f1 . Phone: 393-5440/393-5441 #~.f . .re::;,s .. Specialize in Cantonese, Szechuan& llunan Hours: Sun- Thu. - 11: 30-10:00 Fri.-Sat. 11:30-11: 00 ...: Cll c 0 Noff .,Terrace ~ ·~ !;: (;'t: ~ .... ·= ::) · Take Out of or Eat .in We're in .Walking Distance We prepare our foods with • • • Just o Little Bit of L.uck and a Whole Lot of experience ... ,..

CONCORDJENSIS, lkwber 25, 1984 Page 11 - ·'- . ' FEATURES . Civil War Series· I Front and center, Civil War buffs! New York's role in the Civil War is the focus of \Historically Speaking: The. Civil War,\ a series of free lectures and films at the New York State Museum, Saturday mornings at 10:30 a.m. October 20-Novernber 24. The schedule for \Historically Speaking: The Civil War'' is as follows: October 27_;\New York at Gettysburg.\ Lecture by Robert E. Mulfigaf!, Jr .. ,. Associate Curator, History, New York State Museu:m. Film: The Battle of Gettysburg. November 3-\The Federal Infantryman of the Civil War.'' Lecture by Edward A. Dowling, HI, Captain, Corps' of Engineers, USAR. Film: Tbe Road to Gettysburg. November lO~\Civil War Railroads.\ Lecture by David Gould, Supervisor, Museum Exhibits Planner, New York State Museum. Film: The General. Each lecture begins at 10:30 a.m. and is followed by an award-winning film on the Civil War. The New York State. Museum is located in the ·Empire State Plaza in Albany. Museum hours are 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily. The museum is closed Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year's Day. For more information call 518-474-5877 . . HESC President Tours State Dr. Dolores E. Cross, president of the Higher Education Services Cor- poration, visited State University College at New Paltz to describe the new state student financial aid programs signed into law by Governor Cuomo this past spring. The new State financial aid programs for postsecondary education include the Vietnam Veterans Tuition Awards ( VVTA) program and the Aid for Part-Time Study (APTS) program. Under the VVTA program, veterans with Indochina service may be eligible for as much as $500 per semester for undergraduate study. Under the AP''fS program, for the first time, students attending school part- time may be eligible for financial assistance. In addition to the new programs, the state's Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) was expanded and award amounts increased. As a result of these changes, financially dependent undergraduate students can now receive as much as $2,700 a year for tuition costs and c.an have family net taxable In- comes of up to $29,000. On her tour, Dr. Cross will announce the establisbment of two toll-free student financial aid hotlines · that will provide students with information on the status of their student loan and grant applications. Students can calll-8()().642-6234 or 1-800-642-6238 weekdays between 9 a.m .. and 4:30 p.m. When asked about the new program initiatives, Dr. Cross commented, \The State has again demonstrated its high regard for providing stll;dents with access to the htgher educational programs that best meet their needs.\ 2 7 ~~ TS TY .?<.'.,., •• ..._.w······',.,,. ....... . \ •'H ... ~ '\ ~-~>:\ t . Is your calculator in the same · class you are? Move qp to the Tl-66. The easy 512 step programmable. You're into higher math and your old calculator helped get you there. But now it~ time for something more. The TI-66 .from Texas Instruments. The TI-66 offers full programming power and flexibility so you can solve complex and repetitive math problems quickly, easily and with fewer keystrokes than you thought possible. Its 512 merged pro- gram steps af1d over 170 built-in scientific, engineering and statistical functions make for pawerful program- ming. And the sleek, streamlined design makes for easy use. Its Algebraic Operating System makes it easy on your brain by allowing you to c key in problems as they are written, left to right. And a 10-digit angled Liquid Crystal Display not only makes it easy on your eyes but provides alphanumeric notation of your program steps so you can make easy modifications as you go along. There are large, readable keys for your fingers, and an easy-to-follow guidebook so you shouldn't get confused. And last, but certainly not least, at a suggested retail of $69.95, there's a price that~ easy on your pocketbook. All in all, if we made the TI-66 pro- grammable calculator any easier to use, it~uldl~e -If INSTRUMENTS Creating useful products and §~!Yices f9t.Y91,1\ _

Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, OcU1her 25. 1984 Folllfdnl al {Inion Coll~!fie 1877 -------------- ----------- Your Choice On November 6, this nation once again will be called to the polls to select the president of the United States for the next four years. This is by no means an easy decision for many voters nor should it be taken lightly. The recently televised presidential and vice presidential debates may either add to the confusion or clear up concerns in the voters' minds. Upon Mondale's apparent victory on October 7, Bush's en October 11 and Reagan's slight edge on October 21 (although these conclusions are easily contested), many hitherto wavering voters might be swayed into a candidate's camp. But just how have these debates influenced Union students? It is hoped that potential voters have now decided to cast their ballots. For almost every Union student, this election will mark the first time that we will be able to vote in a presidential election. The responsibility is now ours. However, students still tend to neglect their duty and disregard the whole voting process. It is our right as American citizens to vote for a better future whether that be a ''New Beginning\ or another innovative plan. So take the time to contact the city clerk in your hometown's city hall and ask for an absentee ballot if you...bave not already. Then, do not forget to vote for the candidate of YOUR choice. Early Closings When fixing closing hours for the Skeller ar.d Pub, the administration determined that 1:00 is a reasonable hour for students to go home. It is nice to know that the administration is concerned about our welfare, however, they should know that since Junior High School we have been determining our own bedtimes. It may seem that we are griping too much oyer an issue that isn't too important. Why are students always complaining about parties and bars when they should think about classes instead? Students do feel that this issue is important. At 1:00 most students are beginning to socialize and become disgruntled when they hear last orders called so early. Then they leave, walk tp off-campus bars, or take their cars and travel to Saratoga. Bars there are certainly open well into the night. Slapshots owners have complained. about the 1: 00 rush that develops at their establishment each weekend and Tuesday nights. Let's keep stQdents on campus. They are far safer, will create fewer and lesser disturbances, and will be generally more satisfied. Students complain the campus is Boring. Perhaps that is because after 1:00 there is no place on campus to go, except perhaps to a fraternity or sorority party orhome. · We hope that a compromise can be· reached. Students are complaining. We hope that the ad- ministration will demonstrate that it listens and cares. Fall view of Carnegie Hall Reply to ~OTC Criticism To the Editor: Last week's letter concerning ROTC credit at Union illustrates a long-standing and W1fortunate point about our school: that a large portion of the faculty and administration have always harbored unfair prejudices about both the program and the students who participate in it, and that they have hidden behind notions of \college supremacy\ to in- corporate their biases. The eight professors w.ho wrote that letter are very worried, no doubt, about what they consider · · to be legitimate concerns. However, these concerns are, to say the least, naive. And con- sidering the formidable status and positions of those involved, . they are remarkably unin- formed. First and foremost, it should be remembered that the pur- pose of any proposed changes in the current ROTC situation is to benefit the students involved, not the Navy or Air Force, and not the scho.ol. The authors of that letter failed to realize that ROTC cadets (from all bran- ches) want credit for the work they've been doing, and that the actions of the N;;tvy and Air Force are made on their behalf. The students themselves have been continuously petitioning the AAC and faculty to no avail for over ten years now, and that is why headquarters has now stepped in. Whether or not those courses deserve credit (and that is the question here-regardless of the Navy's funding threat) is not for : me to say. Having had some · firsthand experience with them, I feel that the junior and senior level courses (at least in the Air Force) are at least as academically demanding as those offered at Union, but it is . up to the AAC and the faculty to weigh the evidence and decide. All letters to the editor must be typed and submitted by 5 p.m. each Tuesday be- fore publica- tion. All leHers must be signed, but ·will upon st. names be held reque- As to the professors' statements about ROTC credits being non- transferrable, that is the way things currently stand, . but it-is exactly that measure which has come Ullder attack: whether or not they do warrant academic distinction,. or at least recognition on the college transcript. The transcript, it's true, belongs to the coHege, but it is kept by it for the students, as an accurate representation of their academic work and collegiate achievements. If it is decided that military cour- sework fits into that category, then it is only right that it be exhibited on the college tran- script. As far as the professors' ridic_ulous prediction of an escalating military presence on campus is concerned, I wonder if they realize that .what they are describing (offices, faculty, and classrooms). is an ROTC Detachment--which several hundred campuses across the country have (including Cor- neB, Brown, Harvard, RPI, etc.-all of whom issue credit -for their courses), and which Union itself had until 1970, when declining enrollment and general anti- Vietnam sen- timents closed it. Since then, antimilitarism has become. archaic (except in certain Uaion College faculty w.ho still seem to equate a uniform with warmongering, Agent Orange, and voting the straight Republican ticket) and ROTC involvement at Union has steadily grown. If, some day, there are enough students at Union to warrant a detachment, why not? Detachments do not undermine a school's autonomy, as those professors seem to fear, but instead work within its system. Again, it would be a service to the Union students, not to the NaVY or Air Force. Let me reiterate that what the faculty needs to decide is where ROTC courses stand in relation to · collegiate work. The professors involved have dangerously oversimplified what is in fact a very complex issue. (Their coroinent, for instance, that ROTC classes are taught by non-college faculty is ~isleading; each instruc;tor, in addition to a Master's Degree and Instructor Training School, is chosen by RPI and is ap- pointed an associate professor by that institution. ) Admittedly, the Navy's move is a kind of financial extortion, which is deplorable and very un- fortunate because it makes the changes seem like a sign of weakness. It also makes an issue out of the NaVY's power over Union policies--which should be non-existent-and the professors have legitimately taken that point to task. But what is important to remember here is that these cha11ges ac- tually should have been made long ago, if at all, and that the worth of the courses stands independent of any military dollars. As for myself, I am a former AFROTCcadet who disliked the program and dropped it this year. This gives me the privileged position of one who stands nothing to gain by the prposed transcript amendemtn, but who also knows enough about the p_rogram to form an educated opinion about it. I sincerely hope that the faculty, when it votes, Will examine the course material carefulJ.y and then decide its worth, and will · not let the threats of the Navy or Air Force influence its decision. The question here is not why we should make an exception to our existing non-transferrable credits policy, as last week's letter suggested, but whether that policy is fair or should be amended. Mickey Br~dley '87

CONCORIJIEN.S'IS. lktoha 25. 1984 Page 13 To the Editor: In a recent Concordiensls article, new plans for traffic and parking at the College were unveiled. Although ivied walls and grassy walks create a peaceful oasis insulated frorn the bustle of modern life, its implementation may cause grief and discomfort to em- ployees of the College. Parking Unlike the students who live on or near campus, most em- ployees need a car to get here. Once here, we must be entitled to park our cars and then get to lhe business of the day. The search for a . parking spot, caused by the elimination of spaces, and closing some en- trances to the campus, aU part of the plan outlined in the Concordy article, can only Groups Thanke~ To the Editor: Shirley Chisholm's recent visit and lecture, under the auspices of 'Colloquium on Minority Culture,' would not have been possible without the support of the following groups: Political Science Dept. Dept. of History Speakers Forum Political Forum Dept. of Sociology We want to seize this op- portunity to thank the above for their graciousness and, most emphatically, for their generosity. They sacrificed to provide us with a memorable occasion. Yours, William Daniels lfelmon Davis create ill will, stress, and strain for those who must waste precious time looking for a spot. It behooves the planning commission to find a means to . insure parking f9r all workers at the College, even ifit is at the expense of the bucolic image it wishes to create. Sincerely yours, · Joan Freeman · Administrative Ass't. • Terms Abroad Letters to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the op1n1ons of the editoria I board of Concord i ens is. JV~ass Mailing Rules for AU Departments 1) All mass m<1ilings will be done by the mailroom staff, regardless of the size of the mailing. Absolutely NO ONE will be allowed in the back of the maHroom for any reason. 2) All mass mailings should be delivered to the mail room 3 days prior to the desired delivery date to insure delivery. Calling ahead of time does not insure a mailing date. The mail should actually be delivered to the mailroom 3 days before the mailing date. 3) To insure proper handling and delivery of the mail, each article should be addressed with the recipient's full name and box number, as well as the ·return address. Any mass mail in§ without box numbers will be returned to the sender. 4) All mass mailings must be in numerical box order or else it will be returnee to the sender. (Note: Student boxes run from 1 to 2325, and from 2501 to 2596 for fraternities and clubs. Numbers in the ZBT directory starting with '6' are phone numbers, not box numbers.) 5) All mass mailings must be on pieces of paper measuring at least 4\ x 9\ (letter size), or else it will be returned. 6) Mail delivered to the students whose boxes are temporarily closed will be returned to the sender. 7) As an added service, we will now be able to deliver mass mailings to a particular class, i.e. the freshmen, sophomores, juniors or seniors. Simply indicate on the mailing which class it should go to, if it applies. The Student Mailroom is now open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. The window service is open from 11:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. Please drop off mass mailings during window hours only. If you have any questions regarding the Student Mailroom, please contact Chris Shiely at ext. 6372. RECYCLING Join the environmentally people who are running gang of conscientious aro~nd campus and collecting paper. .Friday • 1:30 Starting Gate: Front of Carnegie (Sponsored by Student Environmental Alliance) COMMENTARIES Democrats Run? · By BRIAN KELLY Staff of N.Y. Youth For Reagan-Bush '84 As Deputy Youth Co- ordinator of the New York State Youth for Reagan-Bush and chief advisor to the Union College Reagan-Bush Com- mittee, I along with six officers of the Reagan-Bush committee and twenty-five committee personnel have challenged the Union College Democrats to a debate that was to take place on Monday, October 22, 1984 in SS016 at 8 p.m. with President Morris as mediator. Eric Lipman, Chairman of the Union College Reagan-Bush committee, made all of the preparations for the debate to take place. These preparations included: contacting President Morris to be the mediator, reserving SS016 to house the debate, printing a vast number of memorandums to inform all the heads of and associate professors of studies within the Social Sciences, and if not most time consuming, preparing the would be Reagan-Bush debaters to successfully destroy the Union College D~mocrats. On Friday, October 19, 1984, Eric Lipman received an un- fortunate phone call from the Union College Democrats an- nouncing their withdrawal. Eric along with the Reagan-Bush committee are very discouraged and disappointed with the Union College Democrats. We have challenged the Union College Democrats to another debate on the grounds that they would notify President Morris of the withdrawal and re-scheduling to another date of their choice, notify Diane Whinkley of the cancellation and re-scheduling of SS016, and post a notice of the same assort in the departments of the Social Sciences. Is that too much to ask from this Democratic organization of whom I may say support and reflect Walter Mondale and his Democratic organization who seek to hold the most important office of this country? After agreeing upon the debate l.'lnd its structure, do the Union College Democrats have the right to back down at the last minute without taking the responsibility to correct the agreed upon preparations? If so, then I ask on behalf of all the New York State Youth for Reagan-Bush, the Union College Reagan-Bush Com- mittee, and all the Reagan-Bush supporters across this country, hey Democrats what are you really afraid of? In Defense· of Grenada By MICHELE ISELE and BRIAN KELLY Reagan-Bush Committee at Union On Wednesday, October 24, rnany Union College students gathered at Memorial Chapel to observe Liberation Day in commemoration of the suc- cessful United States invasion of Grenada one year ago today. US involvement in Grenada was in response to a plea from Eastern Caribbean States and a warning from the embassy in Barbados that American lives in Grenada were endangered. These fears were triggered by the execution of Prime Minister Maurice Bishop on October 12 by leftist forces who proceeded to impose a \shoot on sight\ curfew and close an in- ternational airport, which forced many Americans to remain on the Island. The US responded with an invasion by 1,900 American troops, who found armed Cubans, guided by Soviet advisors, constructing an airfield guarded by antia aircraft artillery near Point Salines. Warehouses filled with Soviet-made weaponry were also discovered and the Saint Georges University School of Medicine, where over 500 Americans were studying, had been taken over. President Reagan's expedient responseto the situation proved highly successful as US forces quickly secured the Island, relieving the terror experienced by our students and providing them with a safe return to the States. This invasion was a key strategic maneuver, as well, hindering Soviet passage into Central America and further restraining Communist in- filtration. In a tribute to President Reagan's success in Grenada, last night's rally was held. United States Marine Captain William Donahue began the event by :eading the Pledge of Allegiance and commenting on the United Stafes' vital strategic accomplishments on the Island. His remarks were further supported by Salvador Duffa, who was studying in Grenada during its attack. Duffa recounted his ex- periences, praising Reagan for his actions at the time and thanking the US for its lifesaving efforts. On behalf of the Reagan-Bush Committee here at Union, we would like to express our thanks to Capt. Donahue, Mr. Duffa, and all who }>articipated in Wednesday night's rally. It is our hope that the campus became further enlightened to the many positive ac- complishments of the Reagan Administration and will join us (and two-thirds of the youth across America) on November 6 to experience the security of knowing that we WILL have 4 MORE YEARS with REAGAN- BUSH! Thursday Concordiensis is off at Carnegie. Each at. noon, dropped PLEASE help carry a stack or two into Carnegie on your way in if possi~le. Thank you.

Page 14 CONCQRDIENSIS. Oc:ttJber 15. /984 .. THE ARTS .:., - .. ''Sophisticated Ladi~s'' plays Proctor's The Duke Swings Again ·Alison Mann and Freda Payne in a scene from the smash musical \Sopt:listicated Ladies,\ which played at Proctor's Oct. 19 and 20. By LINDA RAFFAELE and JODI ISRAEL On October 19 and 20, Duke Ellington's \Sophisticated Ladies\ played Proctor's Theatre. An upbeat, showy extravaganza with swinging tunes, innovate choreography (including tap, jazz, . and modern dancing), as well as flashy costumes and scenery, the show was an instant hit on Broadway, winning the Tony Award for Best Musical in 1982. The audience at Proctor's this weekend was treated to the music of the Duke with the same e~cellent Nair; indeed, the traveling company proved A Look at. \Teachers\ very professional. For those in the audience who were familiar with the Big Band Era or simply just Duke Ellington fans, the musical was more than the Duke's songs performed by a live band; it was a rein- carnation of a time when \It don't mean a thing if it ain't got that swing.\ And there is no doubt~''Sophisticated Ladies'' swings. His Father's Dream The musical revue is directed by Duke Ellington's son, Mercer, and it is obvious that the reult means a lot to him. His father's dream was to have a Broadway production, a goal that unfortunately was not realized while he was alive. Instead, his son has now brought his dreams to life in \Spohisticated Ladies.\ The production contains 34 of the Duke's compositions. There By GAYLEROSENFELD Editor-in Chief is really no plot to the show; that point he remembers why he substitute teacher straight from rather, it is a musical revue of became a teacher. Plitkin, the local mental institution, Ellington's greatest hits. The played by the star of \The break dancing and music, cast included eight Begin with \To Sir With Karate Kid,\ Ralph Macchio, music, music. The film's \sophisticated ladies and Love,\ mix in a scoop of \Room reads on a sixth grade level. soundtrack includes: Thirty- gentlemen\ and seven ''stars,, 222\ and top with a dash of This incites Nolte to action. eight Special, Freddie Mercury, but everyone was of top quality,, \Goodbye Mr. Chips\ and you Overall, this is an impressive ZZ Top, Joe Cocker, I am One of the best voices in the have got \Teachers United performance by Nolte. He is Hunter, The Motels, Night cast belonged to Alison Mann. Artists' latest entry for the fall believable and appears truly Ranger,andBobSeger. Her raspy rendition of \Hit Me fare of fihns now hitting local concerned with the plight of the Filmed mostly in Ohio during with a Hot Note and Watch Me theaters. An Aaron Russo utban school system. the winter, there is no lack of Bounce\ was one of the production, directed by Arthur Williams is wasted in this snow and down coats in this highlights of the first act. Her Hiller, \Teachers\ stars. Nick film, but she makes the best of movie. It is refreshing to see costume for this number was Nolte as Alex Jurel and Jo Beth it. As Lisa Hammond, a former that not all high school students also a hot note: a chic gray silk Williams in yet another film this student of Jurel's, but now a are L.A. suntanned and blond. hankerchief dress trimmed in year (she is currently starring practicing attorney,she adds an This Qn-location shooting adds a hundreds of royal and crystal in \American Dreamers\) as energy to the film. She, like beneficial slice of realism to the bugle beads, suitably flapper, of Lisa Hammond. The film also Nolte, believes in causes, but entire project. ASide from course. Mann's costume was claims an impressive list of she is unaware of how the being too \preachy\ at times, not the only extravagent one, supporting characters: Judd system really works. As a the film does have something to either. The Tony Award- Hirsch, Lee Grant, Richard lawyer seeking compensation say about overcrowded urban winning costumes in this show Mulligan, Ralph Macchio and for a student who graduated schools and the legal system as are valued at a cool half million veteran character actor Royal JFK without learning how to well. Written by W · R. dollars with an additional $60-70 Dano as \Ditto\ Styles, a read, she does not realize that McKinney, the script is thousand in accessories making teacher from the old school. the game is all for money and poignant yet usually knows them some of the most ex- Nolte stars as a teacher who not \the chance to do it right,\ when to ease up. A thoroughly pensive to ever hit Broadway. once had a cause but lost it as she states to her boss. enjoyable and uplifting film, The most memorable num- along the way. As an instructor Williams' character is thus well worth the price of ad- bers of the first act were at the inner city JFK High disappointedatwhatshefinds. mission. \Solitude \Don't Get Around School for 15 years, Nolte has \Teachers\ is fully equipped \Teachers\ has topped the Much Anyniore,\ and \Eli- begun to accept the status quo with everything associated with nationwide box office poll for Blip.\ \Solitude\ was done by rather than fight it as he had high schools: ditto machines, a two consecutive weekends. The Lynn Sterling and Freda Payne, done in his earlier years. harried administratQr played film is currently playing at the * two of the show's leading ladies. However, one day Jurel is by Judd Hirsch, a principal UA Towne 1-2, Crossgates Mall The latter sang in the assignedto meet with a student, right out of the Mr. Rogers Cinema 10 and UA Cinema 1-2. background, shadowed and Eddie Plitkin, and his parents School of Management, a It is rated R. slowly climbing· stairs, while for counseling purposes. It is at the former danced to the sad r---------------------------------------·-. music. in a mauve negligee. The ! Non-Musical Entertainment\·~t.s!i~=c~;~~~~ \Don't Get Around Much Anymore\ followed next. Sterling, still in the purple By GREG FAY Staff \Basically Speaker's Forum's purpose, as we see it, is to provide the campus with the best possible variety of non- musical entertainment,\ said Gabe Elijn, co-chairman of the Forum. This year the Forum chose to begin to fulfill its purpose by contracting 1980 presidential candidate John Anderson, who spoke on third- party politics in Memorial Chapel on Friday, October 13. The Forum has also signed comedian Michael Davis to appear at Union on November 9. This comedian's unique act, which as been performed several times on \Saturday Night Live,\ combines comedy with dangerous juggling. Said Elkin, \He juggles thin~s like bowling balls and axes ... he's: really fabulous and he's very funny.\ In addition to these two speakers, the Forum has also co-sponsored a talk by Shirley Chisholm on Wednesday, October 17. She became the nation's first black congresswoman in 1968 and, commented Elkin, \She's ac- tually the son of person who laid the groundwork for people like Jesse Jackson and Geraldine Ferraro ... she's still very much in the political eye. She's very well known.\ Although the Speaker's Forum has not yet had enough time to plan speakers for the winter and spring terms, having had just three meetings in the short amount of time that has passed since the fall term started, the members are thinking seriously about certain speakers and performers. Before any decisions can be made, the Forum members must talk to agents, who· suggest names of available speakers. The members must then confer amongst them- selves to decide who they want to speak. Said Elkin, \If you think that you'd be interested in talking to agents and having a chance to sign and meet celebrities, then this may be the organization for you.\ But the Speaker's Forum's work does not stop there. After a speaker is signed, preparations must be made. For example, Food Service must be contacted if a reception is to follow a speech. The Forum must also set up press conferences for important speakers like John Anderson. Said Elkin, \It's a lot of walking around to different parts of the campus . . . We're always looking for student par- ticipation.\ Happy Halloween! nightgown, was joined by Dan Strayhorn in this duet. The love Mountebanks Presents Is Alive and Well and Living in Paris song ended in a much expected passionate kiss that left Strayhorn a bit faint. Memorable Numbers \Bli-Blip'' was an upbeat little number danced by Cary Lowenstein and Alison Mann. The two moved together like they were born to dance with one another. The highlight of :the dance was a series of flips that the two did while holding on to each other. The second act was definitely as good as, if not better than the first. The set for most of this act was very intriguing: a stairway in the form of ebony and ivory piano keys. One of the most creative numbers of this act, however, di:d not USf! the stairway as a background. Instead, four men dressed in checkered yellow cab balloon suits formed a huinan taxicab, Two men were attached in the front and the other two were in back. In between them was a black platform on wheels with a driver on top. The taxi cab \drove'' around the stage in time to the sassy tune of \I'm JustaLucky So-and-So.\ Amazing Tap Dance Roger Spivy, one of the top- billed performers, did an amazing tap dance entitled \Kinda Dukish.\ The taps were accentuated by the music and made the audience want to tap along. Spivy was also featured in the next number entitled, \Ko-Ko.\ The choreography here was brilliant. Charle Chaplin-like movements as well as mime were incorporated into this act making it one of the most exciting of the second act. The show ended with an elegant rendition of \Sophisticated Lady\ followed by a high-energy reprise of \It Don't Mean a Thing\ performed by the entire cast. It was cer- tainly a grand finale. There is much more to \Sophisticated Ladies\ than could ever be written about in a single article. There are the people behind the scenes who developed the Duke Ellington backdrops, the woman who designed the illustrious costumes, the choreographers, the make-up artists, the stage directors, and of course, Duke Ellington, the man behind the music. \Sophisticated Ladies\ is a gala event. For anyone interested in swing, this is one musical· not to be missed. Tickets $3-- Students $4--Faculty $5--Genera I Pub lie f I + l ,: ~ ': ·~ l i~- ·I: l{

I I + I ' •-' CONCORDIENSI.S: Ocwber 25. 19§4 Page 15 Camera ''Click'' By MARIA LOMOTAN Staff If you are a student who wants to get involved and take advantage of Union's diverse extracurricular activities but do not have the time to go to weekly meetings or adhere to fixed schedules, then the Photo Club might be the one for you. equipment in the darkroom. The club will also provide photography and color processing lessons for members who want to improve their photographic skills and learn how to develop their own pic- tures. This will be done through various lectures and modeling sessions. ··.THE ARTS The Photo Club is for anyone who is interested in photography but does not have the time nor the money to enroll in the photo classes offered by the Art Department. This year's activities will inelude the publishing of a newsletter every term, a trip to Eastman Kodak where members will be shown the facilities, and the Spring Annual Photo Club. This contest is open to all the students of Union College. The entries_are judged by professional photographers and prizes are· awarded ac- cording to best black and white, best color and other different categories. Determined to change h.is life, Steven Bauer asks Barbara Williams to join him in Paramount Pictures' ''Thief of Hearts.\ \ This year's Photo Club, which is undergoing a major reorganization after many seniors graduated last year, aims to pl'Ovide its 65-70 currently enrolled members with various activities and lessons to supplement their knowledge of photography. The number one priority on the list is to keep a functional darkroom that is open 24 hours. Any member can use it for a $5 fee per term excluding the white paper used for developing. According to Howard Pogolsky, president of the Photo Club, ''It's a bargain.\ The $15 is used for • the purchase and main- tenance of the chemicals and llThief of Hearts\ Reviewed In essence the Photo Club is· made up of \A hlllich of people who like taking pictures.\ It is one club where time com- mitment is not needed. So if you have a camera and you enjoy taking pictures, check out the Photo Club by calling Howard Pogolsky (6981) or waiting for the announcement of an up- coming meeting in your mailbox. By DAPHNECHIGAS and GAYLE ROSENFELD \Sultry steamy, sexual.\ What other adjectives could be used to describe the new Paramount Pictures' film \Thief of Hearts\? This is the story of a young good-looking thief, Scott Muller (played by Steven Bauer), who breaks into Ray and Mickey Davis' San Francisco home and steals not · only their various jewels and paintings, but also Mickey Dance Club Discussed By KiMBERLY HANCOCK staff Union College encompasses a diverse student population whose academic excellence is balanced by a distinct interest in appreciation of the arts. One of the outlets for the student interest and talent is the Dance Club. The Dance Club, not to be confused with the Dance Ensemble, provides students who are interested in any aspect of dance including stage work, costumes, technical work, public relations, and art work a chance to display their talents. Students do all the choreography for the per- formances, which is the major difference between the Dance Club and the Ensemble. The numerous different aspects of dance performance enable talented students who are not dancers to become part of the . performance. The test of a truly exceptional dance company is their ver-. satility. Modern dance as well as jazz and ballet are among the many styles of dance the club is adept in performing. \The Dance Club is for people who have danced at aU levels,'' states club president Trisha · Pasqualini. \Our main goal is to support members of the student body whose interests lie in dance and movement from the perspective of the performer, choreographer, and observer.\ The Reggae Sounds of 'BLACK SHEEP' at Alumni Gym Thursday, Nov. 8 8:00p.m. Upcoming performances include a winter term recital in conjunction with the Arts Club and a solo performance during Parent's Weekend. Other plans include trips to Proctors and an excursion to New York City to view a performance of a professional dance company. Another aspiration of the club is to have a professional dance company, possibly the Hubbard Street Dance Company, come to Union to perform. The club already has a strong cQre of returning dancers but is open for more talented students. Anyone with interests in any aspect of the Dance Club can become involved by con- tacting either Trisha Pasqualini (6858) or Heidi Kahn (6729). Union College students with ID· · $·5. 00. Tickets available at the Student Box Office. Beer will be provided throughout the evening. Sponsored by the Union College Concert and Social Committees and Miller Beer .....-WELCOME---... to '11Ullerclime 1''11\/ Mdlt·r /.lfi'VY'~'f: C11mp.tny Mrl,~.ttlkt·t· WI Davis' (Barbara Williams) diaries. These diaries contain Mickey's erotic fantasies. Upon reading these diaries, Muller becomes obsessed with becoming a part of these fan- . tasies. He becomes the very man that Mickey has written about. Ray (John Getz) and Mickey Davis begin the film celebrating their sixth wedding an- niversary. Ray, a rather wimpy but successful children's book writer, takes his interior decorator wife out to dinner. Meanwhile,3ack at their modest but tastefully designed home that overlooks the bay (big bucks), Muller is unknowingly \violating\ Mickey's most personal secrets. Paradise Short-lived Through a series of prearranged encounters tact- fully arranged by Muller, Mickey and Scott form a professional relationship that soon evolves into the fantasy that Mickey could formerly have only dreamed of with her safe but boring husband. But life in paradise is short-lived Scott soon stops playing the part of Mickey's fantasy lover and becomes his old self; a vicious blow to their sexual relationship. So what is the moral of this film? Fantasies are much better in the privacy of one's own diary. Mickey loved to dream but when it carne right down to it, what she really wanted was the security that she had already attained in her present lifestyle. Looks Aren't ~verything On the whole the per- formances were ex.cellent. The characte.rs were quite believable except for John Getz. Do all Dr. Seuss prototypes look like him? Apparently director and writer Douglas Day Stewart thinks so because he depicts Getz's character as a weak, nerdy schlep. Con- vincing, but still a schlep. It is no wonder that Mickey turns to the sexual advances of Scott. He depicts himself as having so much more to offer than her husband, Ray, who after six years of marriage has begun to neglect her. Newcomer Bauer, fresh from \Scarface revives the old adage that looks aren't everything but they sure do help. But his acting really did not need this extra push. He is competent even without his good looks. Canadian actress Barbara Williams was credible as Mickey Davis, although the ,attraction between Scott and Mickey is not believable. What does he see in her? There is no chemistry between the two. \Thief of Hearts\ has its share of violence and nudity but there is enough good acting and an exciting plot that keeps the audience interested in more than just the characters' good looks. Rated R, \Thief of Hearts\ is currently playing at Cine 10, Crossgates Mall, and other theaters in the Capital District area. I <.;abe Kaplan Will appear as ~roucno Marx m \Groucho.\ coming to Proctor's this Sunday night, October 26, ate p.m.

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, October 25, ~984 THE ARTS Christopher Collet (left) and Peter Weller find themselves at odds while Teri G-arr looks on in Paramount Pictures' 'Firstborn.' Movie Satorlzes Suburban Life ••• A Family • 1n Turmoil By DAPHNE CHIGAS Meet the Livingstons. Mom and Dad are divorced. They have two children, Jake, 16, and Brian, 10. The children live with Mom in suburban New Jersey. Dad is getting remarried but Mom is still hung up on him. So what does Mom do? Find a new boyfriend, of course! Enter the unstable boyfriend, Sam. Sam seems like a nice guy; he knows how to barbeque a good steak, convinces Mom to buy Jake a motorcycle, and really likes Mom a lot. Well, Sam does have his problems. You see, Sam turns Mom into a cocaine addict and sometimes beats her up. Sam also plans a $10,000 cocaine deal to get enough money to buy a restaurant with Mom. This is the basic plot of Paramount Pictures' new film \Firstborn.\ \Firstborn\ stars such notables as Teri Garr as Mom, Wendy Livingston, Christopher Collet as Jake, Corey Haim as Brian, and Peter Weller as Sam. Teri Garr is mostly known for her Academy A ward nominating performance. in \Tootsie\ and most recently in \Mr. Mom.\ Peter Weller is no stranger to the screen either. Maybe you remember him from \Shoot the Moon\ where he played the part of an unstable boyfriend dating a woman still hung up on her husband (sound familiar?). Christopher Collet and Corey Haim are both relatively new to the roles of · movie stars but have appeared in numerous commercials. The film is produced by Paul Junger Witt and Tony Thomas. If you have not already noticed, the plot of \Firstborn\ is a bit far-fetched. Not even in New Jersey do things like this go on. Bot plot aside, the movie really is worth seeing. We see a family torn apart by drugs as we sit on the edge of our seats waiting for what's next. There is plenty of intrigue in \Fir- stborn\ as we sit through fights, car chases and touching family situations. The acting was a cut above the plot. Too bad they didri't have a plot to equal their talents. With the house torn apart by the presence of Sam, the oldest son, Jake, (hence the title) fights for the survival of his Hudson East Productions, a new theatre company based in New York City, will be coming to Union College on October 27th with their production of Ins and Outs, two new one-act plays by Union College graduate Sharon Rubin. Both plays explore the elusive rituals of romance and bonding, of finding love and losing love, one in a bantering contemporary dialogue and the other in a series of interwoven interior monologues. In Ins, a young man and woman, Jami and Marta, meet on a beach. Both artists, he a sculptor and she an actress, they wrestle within the idyllic and funny relationship that develops, of jealousy and trust. Outs is the story of Steven and Ella, about the relationship that grew between them and the com pi ications that brought on its end. Both plays confrQnt not only the questions that arise in romantic encounters, but also explore the artist in relation to his or her art. family. He sees (as we do too) the house falling apart, the fast- food dinners instead of home- cooked meals, the dirty dishes, and his younger brother becoming more violent at school. So Jake comes to the rescue, kicking Sam out of the house after a grueling fist fight that pitted the entire family against Sam. The film ends with everyone happy since Sam h&s left. The ending of this film leaves a lot to be desired; there are many unanswered questions. But this seems to be the trend in the newly released movies. Maybe there will be a sequel, Firstborn II? No matter, the plot aside, the film is guaran- teed to keep you interested. \Firstbom\ opens on Friday, October 26 at the Cine 1..:8, Cinema 10 and UA Towne Theatre. So go see it! Jacques By KERRIE TICKNOR Staff Jacques Brei is alive ,and well and living in the N ott this fall as Mountebanks kicks off yet another season of theatre. This rather intriguing musical revue, directed by Diane Sadak, is the first production of its kind since Not Like Dreams Do performed nearly two years ago. The score, originally written in French by Jacques Brel, includes musical numbers that date from the 1920's to the present, thus encompassing an entire panorama of life during these eras. From the flapper days to the post-war traumas of both World War I and II, from the anxieties of the sixties to the chaos of the 1980's, .Jacques Brei races \like a treadmill which cannot stop\ describes Diane. WRUC Presents OLDIES RECORD SALE LP'S & 45'5 • Over 3000 2-4 p-n Carnegie Hal Saltt Date Fri. 1 0/26 CHEAP!· L---~~------------------------~· Rave Review By MICKEY BRADLEY Staff Memorial Chapel was packed · to near-capacity Sunday night, as the New York Chamber Soloists performed The Brandenburg Concerti. The performance, which ran for two and a half hours (including an intermission), was a satislying rendition of Bach's six~part masterpiece; frequently spectacular, occasionally flawed, but consistently en- tertai,ning. The NYCS is a group con· sisting of twenty members who\ perform in various com· binations-sometimes using up to fifteen pieces at once, other times as few as seven. This allows them to perform major chamber pieces written for diverse combinations of in- struments that smaller groups cannot handle. The Bran- denburg Concerti is a good example of this; an ambitious undertaking due to its musical complexity and wide popularity. The performance began With Concerto No. 3 in G Major, a showcase for the string sec- tions, in which each player ferociously sawed at his in- strument with impeccable timing that kept up the lively pace. The ensemble generally fared better on the uptempo movements all evening, though several of the soloists displayed brilliant intonation and flexibility on the softer melodies. Their ability to unite abrupt changes in timing and structure from various movements into a cohesive whole concerto was unusually precise. The evening had many memorable highlights: the beautiful phrasing and in- flection of flutist Paul Dunkel and violinist Hamao Fujiwara on Concerto No. 5 in D Major, the mechanical percision of harpsichordist Harriet Wingreen ( ocasionally at the expense of any musical emotion), the .grand brass and woodwind sections' rich un- derscore of their string coun- terparts on Concerto No.5 in F Major, and, in that sarne piece, the stately, stylish precision that ended the first half of the performance. But it was the group's fifth and arguably best piece that was the evening's standout, Concerto No. 4 in G Major. Its biggest star was Ann Briggs, whose untamed and highly creative flute runs s·oared wildly above the other • instruments, while the string section (expertly led by Helen Kwalwasser) aggressively chased after her. The pace slowed in the second movement to a graceful, expressive balance of all the instrurnents, before the third and final movement jwnped bad~ to its · original zesty fervor 'that ended the piece joyously. It was a fine synchronization of all the players, each successively repeating a fragment of the melody to achieve a wholly unified effect. The concert did have its pitfalls, though. Concerto No. 6 in B-flat Major began rather stiffly and lifelessly, and though the musicians were intricately interwoven, the overall per- formance was undynamic. Also, the order in which the concertos were performed seemed so mew hat arbitrarily assigned-leaving no singular ctunulative effect other than to end the show with the most celebratory of the six pieces, Concerto No. 2 in F Major. These faults aside, though, the evening was very en- tertaining and successful. The concert was part of the Schenectady Musewn-Union College 1984-1985 Concert Series .entitled An International Festival of Chamber Music XIII, the next segment of which will be the Golub-Kaplan-Carr Trio on Wednesday, November 14. All students will be admitted free, and the concert will be open to me!Ubers of the com- munity as well. Coming to N ott Time and place, although initially set in Paris, remain ambiguous in this production. Indeed, Diane states that the cast of ten \collectively decided to set Jacques Brei in the attic of an old theatre which is closing down.\ Hence, the musical becomes a psychological journey into the lives and loves of these characters as they explore such universal themes as death, aggression, love, individuality and fear of the unknown. While Jacuqes Brei has its heavy moments, it is by no means a melodrama. Diane states that this is not your typical Union production. \Often people think that Union theatre focuses on heavy drama but while Jacques Brei is certainly. no Hello Dolly or Guys and Dolls, it offers a different kind of musical ex- perience. There is something for everyone. From powerful solos to incredibly upbeat numbers, .Jacques Brei is really fascinating.\ Although the show includes no dialogue, musical numbers do not exist in a vacuum. In ad- dition to dancing (everything from the 'Twist' to classical ballet) creatively arranged by choreographer, Jean Crney, the show is largely comprised of improvisation. Through the creative efforts of cast and crew, songs are accompanied by comic sketches, mime routines and other various impromtu skits. An interesting addition to the stage is a white scrim which is used to project authentic scenes from different eras in an effort to reflect the psychological pain or joy of the character's story. In addition to improvisation and special visual effects, musical numbers are accompanied by the piano, base, percussion, trumpet and flute. .Jacques Brei, which will be performed November 8, 9, ·10, and 13-17, promises to be a tremendous success. Tickets go on sale two weeks before the opening and are $3 for students, $4 for faculty and $5 for out- siders.

and un- the the ~\fin uns ~ing ~len its · ded the the its 6 lso, il y to ~es, en- the nal ~arr be by of ect to no, be ~ a Donald Bessette, Director of the Theater Program at the Junior College of Albany, has · announced the schedule of performances for the 1984-85 academic year. The Junior College of Albany Second Act Players will present three full-length productions and a series of one-actplays. C.P. Taylor's Tony Award- winning play \Good\ will be presented on November 2, 3, 9, 1 0 and 11. \Good\ is a compelling play about the rise of Naziism in Germany during the 1930's. Directed by Don Bessette, \Good\ will feature · community actors in the major roles. The mid-winter offering will be \Mousetrap Agatha Christi~' s long. ru nnin.g Broadway mystery. The play is about a group of strangers, one of whom is· a murderer 1 stranded in a boarding house during a snowstorm. Directed · by well-known community actress and director Carol King, the play will be presented on February 1, 2, 8, 9 and 10. Kiss to Appear in Concert at the Glens Falls Civic Center Magic City Productions and PYX-106 welco- mes KISS IN CONCERT with special guest QUEENSRYCHE o·n Friday, November 16, 1984, at 8 p.m. Tickets are priced at $11.50 and go on sale on Saturday, October 20 at the Civic Center Box Office, Drome Sound, all Ticketron outlets and B_ook King in Rutland, Vermont. CONCORDIENSI!l: October 25. 1984 DEPT. of the ARTS presents ___.,t HUDSON EAST PRODUCTIONS TS AN E\'ENING OF ONE ACTS hy SHARON RUBIN with JOSEPH GIARDINA and DEBORAH LAUFER DIRECTEO hy 10HN ALBAN and JOSEPH ~11LLETT PRODL 'CEDhy LISA FISHER WI JERE= Nott Memorial Theatre w11 F:\;, October 27th a:oo pm tickets at the door S 2 .on . - \\.·· .... : . . ·, . . . ~· ' . . '· ' ~ . . . . . - Page 17

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, October 25, 1984\ SCHOLARSHIPS The Scholarship Bank has announced ten new scholarship programs that are currently accepting applications from college students. Students interested in getting a personalized print-out of financial aid sources should send a stamped self-addressed envelope to Scholarship Bank, 10100 Santa Monica No. 2600, Los Angeles, CA 90067. There is a modest charge. INTERNSHIPS White House Fellowship: One-year program in which Fellows serve as special assistants to Cabinet Secretaries or senior members of the White House staff. Fellows also participate in extensive education program. Highly competitive. Deadline: December 1, 1984. NYS Assembly Intern Program: 1) Session Intern Program is open to juniors or seniors of any major who have a stt·ong interest in state government and the legislative process. 30 hrs.-wk, January- May, academic credit given. 2) Graduate Scholars Program is ACROSS 2 Retreat 1 Lifted with 3 Pronoun lever 4 Organ of 6 Brief hearing 11 Sell to 5 Expires consumer 6 Mountain 13 Container lake 14 Guido's 7 Bitter vetch low note 8 Railroad: 15 Schoolbooks abbr. 17 Symbol for 9 Mediter- tantalum ranean 18 Noise vessels 20 Enticing 10 African woman antelope 21 Lair 12 Den open ta students who are matriculated in or who have completed a graduate degree. Deadline: October 26, 1984. Northwestern Mutual Ufe: Internship for Juniors· and Seniors seeking good paying part-time jobs with potential for a full-time career after graduation. Training sessions starting immediately. Infor- mation available at CDC or caH Brian Thomas at 785-4141. Training and development · Internship, Infosearch.: An Albany 'based firm is seeking a student intern to develop training materials for their staff in several departments. Writing skills are essential, creativity desirable. Suitable for students interested ·in business or personnel. Choate Rosemary Hall: Swnmer teaching internships to give prospective secondary school teachers an opportunity to gain classroom experience. Room and board plus salary provided. Cystic Fibrosis Bowl for Breath, Cystic Fibrosis ]foundation : · Intern will assist Program Director in overseeing the total organization and implementation of the 1984 fundraising program. Intern will work with volunteers and committees, recruit par- ticipants, prepare news releases and newsletter 22 Periods 13 Insect of time 16 Let fall Last week's answers 24 Decay 19 Innate 34 Metal 43 Dispatched 25 Sow 21 Signifies fastener 44 Cut 26 Short jacket 23 Painful spots '36 Main dish 47 Footlike part 28 Jimmy 25 Omens 37 Dinner 48 African Carter's 27 Scold course antelope hometown 29 Macaw 39 Units of 51 Note of scale 30 Mountains of 31 Plundered Portuguese 53 Symbol for Europe 33 Narcotic currency glucenium 32 Thus 33 A state 35 Poker stake 37 Resorts 38 Paddle 40 Dispatch 42Beill 43 Pigpens 45 Stream: abbr. 46 Note of scale 47 Skinning 49 About 50 Be present 52 Scorches 54 Believer In personal god 55 Whimpers DOWN 1 Excessively priggish person Answers in next week's issue To All Club Heads: your club Advertise meetings on the Campus News pages each week. Just fill out a classified ad slip from the student ac- tivities booth and drop it off at the Concordy Office by 4 p.m. each Tuesday. mailings, assist in public education programs. October and November. Includes mileage reimbursement and meal allowance. Devereux Foundation: Full- time 12-month preprofessional mental health traineeships at the Devereux Foundation treatment centers which serve mentally and emotionally handicapped child.ren and young adults. Dow Jones Newspaper Fund: Editing Intern Program for College Juniors and Minority Editing Intern Program for Colleg.e Seniors. Deadline: November 1, 1984. International Development Program, Agency for Inter- naUonal Development: The Agency for International Development offers internships to train qualified men and women to become Foreign Service officers. Requirements: Graduate degree in certain fields, 2 years experience. Deadline: November 10, 1984. +Please inform students that information is available in CDC. RESEARCH FUNDS The Subcouncil on Research and Grants is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities for this acade'mic year. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Kaplan's Office (S100) Science & Engineering Center. The deadline for submission of these applications is Monday, November 12. Questions con- cerning the Faculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Kaplan, Associate Dean of Faculty. The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foun- dation in two cat,egories~­ student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ falls. on November 12. Proposals should describe work to be completed during this academic year. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed . to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to Dean Kaplan's office (S100) Science & Engineering Center. Members of the College com- munity who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should' submit them to the same office. Applications and guidelines are available upon request. Inquiries should be directed to Dean Kaplan, Associate Dean of Faculty. CLUB NEWS The President's Corrunission on the Status of Women at Union College invite you to share JUST DESSERTS on Halloween ... Wednesd~, October 31, 1984, Lower Hale House Lounge. 12:30-1:30 p.m. Monday, 12:30-1:30, Spanish table. Tuesday, 12:30-1:30, French table. Wednesday, 12:30-1:30, Italian table Friday, 12:30-1:30, German .table. • Newman Folk Group- Sunday, October 28, 6:30 p.m. meets with Friar Paul in St. John's Church to prepare £or 7:30p.m. Mass. New members welcome. Newman Social-Sunday, October 28, following the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy the Newman Club will host a social at St. John's Rectory for the Union com- munity. Newman Bible Study- Monday, October 29, 8 p.m. 4th floor Lounge, Carnegie. Halloween Hospital Visit- Wednesday, October· 31, 7 p.m. all are invited to dress in costume and meet in front of Carnegie to walk to EUis Hospital to visit the Pediatric and Geriatric floors. Tutorial Program-Anyone interested in tutoring Reading one hour a week to primarily second graders of St.. John the Evangelist School please contact Peter Fischer 374-3243. SPEAKERS October 25, \Women in the Political Process,\ Speaker Maude Easter, Lobbyist for NOW. Sponsored .by the MftNHI\ - ~)t(~IH~~~[E 605 Union Street JO·IN US FOR SUNDAY BRU\'CH 11 A.M. - 3 P. M. OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK LUNCH-DINNER-FINGER FOODS Serving 11:30 am-1:00 cim clash in pre season action II! FRIDAY, NOV. 2hd -7:30pm $1.00 ~uh UC ID Tickets on sale now at the ACHILLES RINK am pm . s:ao - 4:30 -- weekdays box office

y, 's is ic ~e 3. u ci £ .E 0 .c c. CONCORDIENS/S, Octol!er 25 •. 1984 Page 19 Evening Branch Women's Alliance of the First Unitarian Church, Schenectady. For more information call 370-3902. October 26, \Women in Business: Where are we? Where are we going?\ Panel discussion. Early Bird Break- fast at Schenectady County Community College. Reser- vations $6 by October 19. Send tG: Early Bird Breakfast, Schenectady County Chamber of Commerce, 243 State Street, Suite6, Schenectady, NY 12305. October 26 and 27, \Con- sidering a Change: A Workshop Series for Women,\ for women who are thinking about a new stage in work and-or education. Center for Women's Education, Cowee Hall 212, Russell Sage College, Troy Campus. For more information, .call 270-2306 .. October 31, \Women· in Horror Fiction,\ Judith Johnson-Sherwin, SUNY at Albany; HU 354 at 12:15 p.m. HELP WANTED' Student needed for light housework one afternoon a week on Wendell Ave. Call374- 0447 after 5 p.m. Student interested in typing, please contact 6227 (on campus) or 439-0817 (Home). Need 1 or 2 students to rake leaves. Location--Hawthorn Road, Niskayuna, NY. Please contact 374.;()702. Camp~s rep to run spring. break vacation trip to Daytona Beach. Earn free trip and money. Send resume to College Travel Unlimited, P.O. Box 6063, Station A, Daytona Beach, Florida 32022, or'call (904) 672- 6955 or -6959; Student interested in babysitting--regular basis Thursday night, 7-10 for one 3 yr. qld. Location-Upper Union area. Please contact 374-9754 aft-er 6 p,m. or weekends. Student interested in housecleaning, several hours 1 or 2 days a week. Ten minutes from campus. Own tran- sportation. Possible cooking. Please .contact 372-3095. VISIT The Internationally Acc!aimed Alternate Dining Experience on Campus TH'E AMAZING (STUPENDOUS) RO.CK~N-RO·LL PIZZA PUB Featuring: Damn Awesome Pizza Scrumptious Subs Famous Cookies ., Popcorn .,. Etc ••• -- THIS W~EK'S SPECIAL . Buy One Topping Get One Free! Friday Nig.ht Dinners Every Friday in The Kosher Kitchen Services: 5:30 • Dinner: 6:00 Only $3 for great food and a good time!! JSU Need student to do proofreading and some clerical. 10-20 hours a week-flexible. $4.00-hr. Location off Central Ave. Need own transportation. Please contact Metroland Magazine at 459-5371. Students or Professors, typing done--Scotia ·area. Please contact 377-4215. Student interested in doing odd jobs, mGwing, running errands, etc. please contact Kazyaka Funeral Home, Eastern Ave. at 374-1990. Room for rent with kitchen facilities. Male preferred. Mt. Pleasant area, Third Ave. (on bus Hne). Please contact 381- 3995. Need responsible student to babysit for 10-month-old child weekends. Off Nott St. (across from soccer field). Please contact 393-9670. Furniture store needs strong help to do work pertaining to furniture store such as delivering, window changing, moving furniture, and so forth. Also need someone who can drive van. Part-time. Ras Furniture Interiors~37 4-7785. CLASSIHEDS Typing: term papers, theses, etc. done by executive secretary. $1 per page. Call Judy at 399-3383. Expert typing, $1 per. page. Call Marge at 377:.a345. Need a typist? Contact Kathy Shecky, 399-4656 in the late afternoon. Union College Christian Fellowship meets every Thursday night at 7:30 in 4th Floor Lounge, Carnegie. All are welcome. DON'T BE LEFT IN THE COLD.PLAN YOUR SPRING BREAK NOW! I need some warm bodies interested in spending 8 sun-filled days and 7 fun-filled nights in the Bahamas. For more info con- tact: Cristina, x6418, Box 1558. - Professors: Isn't it time you gave that old room a new color? Cali for free low estimate after 6. Student Painting Service. 346- 2495. For Sale: B.C. Rich Mockingbird. Excellent con- dition, many extras. $500 firm. Call 370-6975. Lost cat! Small female tabby, white chest and feet. Left home last Sunday._ ID tag: \Pequot Lakes, MN.\ Reward. Call370- 6033 or 370-5659. . TYPING SERVICE. Theses, term papers, ·manuscripts, resumes, business typing, etc. Top quality work. Reasonable rates. 399-Q165. 2nd Annual Fall Student PHONATHON WRUC 89o7 FM Presents Football at Williams Saturday Pre-Game at 1 p.m. Wed. Nov. 7 & Thurs. Novo 8 5:30-9:30 pm Carnegie Banquet Room Dinner 5:30 Calling Begins 6:30 Sign up sheets posted in residence halls RSVP Annual Fund Office By Nov. 5 with your team· x6174 Sportsline Season De~ut Friday 7:30-8:00 p.m • Listen to Sportsline Every Monday, Wednesday & Friday Pl:liZES, FUN, FOOD 4 to a team- tiURRY! 1st come,· 1st serve basis OXFAM Fast . The Union College Oxfam Committee welcomes any new members to help organize the Fast. Please come to our meeting Thursday, at 3:30 in Conference Room A in Car- negie. Faculty, Staff, and Fraternity and sorority participation are a I so welcome and appreciated. TERMS ABROAD Now is the time to apply for the Union Term Abroad in Freiburg, Germany. This program will take place in the ~pring term, 1985. It is open to af I members of the College as long as they complete the necessary prerequisite courses. The program costs about the same as a term on campus. For more information and application blanks, come to the Terms Abroad Office, H U 211 now, as the deadline for accepting appli'cations is fast approaching. ''A not so instant replay of the 1984 Presidential Debates'' Presentation & Open Discussion Presentation by Professor Tid march and Professor Kaminsky All of the college community is welcome Presentation will be held in the Pub at 7:30 Thursday, October 25, 1984 Sponsored by Phi Beta Kappa & the Student Forum

Page20 The Schenectady Police Community Centers and the City Neighborhood Watch are sponsoring a forum on the subject of rape. A slide show entitled, \Rape An Act of Violence\ will be followed by panel statements and questions from the audience. The program will·be held from 7-9 p.m. on Thursday, November 15 at Linton High School. For more information call 3'7.0-2022. The Film Committee . Presents: ''Romancing the Stone\ on 10-26-10-28 at 7, 9, 11 and \The Shining\ on 10-31 at 7:30 and 10 p.m. Tickets are $1 and are available at the Student Box Office. Films shown in SS016. PERSONALS All personals must be typed and submitted by 4 p.m. every Tuesday to the Concordy office. Forms are available at the Student Box Office. Jill-Noisy nights and cold. showers ... How will we torture you next? -Your housemates Congratulations to the New York State Champions! The Lady Ruggers Sue B, Happy 21st birthday! Have a super day. Good luck- you're a survivor! We love you- Your housemates Skyd-I hope you are getting Maximum Flouride, Foot, and Feminine Protection. Me Glad to hear you're feeling better. Come home soon, we miss you!!! Subi-So-Does it feel any different? Happy 21st to a very special person! -K Risa-A \comforting\ thought ... ! still think we should take bets on it ... K Annie-Next test? We should make an appointment to talk! -K Dear SWSAN, (no, it's not a typo) HAPPY 20th Birthday$$$ love, Your Sisters To all depressed AB's: Don't lose hope!! Let's see some smiles, okay? I love you all, Scoop J-Love is sweetest with a friend. I'm smiling, hope you are too-a friend. EHH- This was intended for 1 try and 26 miles (385 yds.), but what's one more try, give or take a fantastic exam? I am very proud! Enough to make you dinner on Saturday, eh? xxBC Congratulations on a winning season UCRFC! Buffalo is a long ride, but it was worth it. - UCWRFC AZEL, We did it! Let's ace our next set of exams too (but next time I'll get more sleep and .YOU won't live in the library. O.K.?) Thanks, roommate. C BUNNY: I missed you the other night. Please don't worry about us. You know I love you. Your Bunny always To 325 Seward: Pizza anyone?!? Want a shave? CONCORDIENSIS, October 25, 1984 Randi, Sonia, Lisa and Kara Where's the beef? Love, us Kara, Congratulations. NYC watch out-Esquire all the way. Love, Your crazy roomies Sony~Do you mind if I blow dry my hair in here? That's what we like about Q. The Dancing five DDD, Thanks for a HELL Of a time. We love you all. Suite 260. Lis, Who am I? We love you. Thanks for the entertainment. Emily, Rick and Scott: That's a great couch you've got! Thanks. Love Randi But I don't care if you're small, Paul! -Diana Rod, Monday night was WONDERFUL! Thanks! Diana Yeah DDD! Excellent party! Hi, Brian! Be on the look out for Miller High Lifes'new 32 oz. quart can. Ounce for ounce. its got more of that same great Miller High Life taste. Kim, Love ya! Mere Miche,. Ilysse, Kim: Thso Thsorry, wrong athsumption on my part! Michel GROVER DIES!!! Ilythse: Thsankths for thstudying with me. It waths exthcellent! DETH Hi! Happy Birthday Scardina!! C.B. There is magic in the rain. Love, R.H. To Ugly & Uglier, The Slipper strikes again ... Attention Union Campus, Be on the lookout for The Slipper. Known to be tall, good looking and potentially funny. Just when you thought it was safe ... Jeremy, Good luck ... we love you .. .SRL Meg, T.en always was a good number.~.right Nick? SK P&E Man, E.S. + O~K .. ? UGG! ! and .get a real oven ... · partner in semi-crime , c s \ t ( I t \ '

CONCORDIENS/S, 0£'foher 25, 1984 Page 21 Yankees Hit Cohoes Brad Little of Redlands, CA, and Heidi Johnson of New York City will join v.eteran actor Mike Mazurki in Cohoes Music Hall's 1984-85 opening production ''Damn Yankees,\ which plays October 26 through N ov~em ber 17, according to music hall official William Campbell. Campbell is Managing Producer -of Heritage Artists, Ltd., which produces the music hall season. Award Winning Musical \Damn Yankees\ is the 1956 Tony Award-winning musical about Joe Boyd, a man who is so upset over the losing streak of his favorite team, the Washington Senators, that he says he would sell his soul for a chance to see them victorious. He speaks these words and, instantly, a fast-talking, hustling devil (Applegate) appears, offering Boyd· a chance to see and be respon- sible for a Senators' pennant victory over the Yankees. For the price of a soul, Applegate will turn middle-aged Joe Boyd into the extraordinary young rookie, Joe Hardy. Boyd ac- ceptstheoffer, but not before he forces Applegate to agree to an escape clause. In the Cohoes production, Joe Hardy will be played by Brad Little, whose professional credits include; \They're Playing Our Song,\ \Fiddler on the Roaf,\ and most recently, \Curly\ in \Oklahoma! as well as a television role in \Another World.\ Actor-wrestler Milte Mazurki, who grew up in Cohoes, will- play Van Buren, the Senators' (You Gotta Have) ''heart\ coach. Mazurki is a veteran of more than 200 films, and was last seen on the Cohoes Music Hall stage as Lennie in John Steinbeck's \Of Mice and' Men'' in 1976. Heidi Johnson will play Lola, the temptress that Applegate calls in when Joe Hardy begins to feel that the triumph of Victory means less to him than Joe Boyd's happiness with his wife of many years. It is Lola who performs one of the most famous numbers from the ''Damn Yankees\ score by Richard Ailler and J·erry Ross- ''Whatever Lola Wants.'' Ms. Johnson has just returned from · a successful summer season at Candlewood Playhouse, where she performed the title role in \Peter Pan,\ Gertie in \Okl~homa! ,'; Lily in \Annie\ and Sister in ''The Pirates of Penzance.\ '''Damn Yankees\ is the first of six music theatre shows to be presented at Cohoes Music Hall during this llOth anniversary season. The remaining productions are: \A Christmas Carol, (November 30-December 22); ''Cole,\ (January 11-26); ''The Grass H:arp,\ {February 8-23); ''Grease,\ (March 8-23); and \Oklahoma! (April5-20). Season .subscriptions providing a 20 pervent discount over general admission prices are still available through . November 17 by contacting the Cohoes Music Hall, noted Campbell. In addition, general admission tickets may be obtained at Community Box Offices, Drome Sound Music Stores, and at the Palace Theatre Bo:lt Office in Albany. Further information and tickets may be obtained by contacting the Cohoes Music Hall, Box 586, Cohoes, NY, 12047, 235-7969. At approximately 12:30 in the ·afternoon on Tuesday, October 23 there was a small fire in the utility room· of Schaffer Library. The fire was thought to be in the electrical wiring but it turned out to be an electrical motor burning. All faculty, staff and students were evacuated quickly and ~afely. ~ttt!J. ;,,t us be Haircut /Design Perms Colour Facials Waxing Make .. up Body Wraps Nan Lengthening. Our designers have been trained by. SASSOON of London and JINGLESu N. Y .C .. Qn tuesday & Wednesday only wilh Raymcmd or Tija Gooding Skin Sys!ems 322 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 1 .... v ... v .... \\ The Troy Savings Bank Music Hall Association presents Windham Hill jazz pianist Scott Cossu with friends Ira Stein on piano, Russ Walder, oboe, and David L.aks, flute. Friday evening, October 26 at 8 p.m. Additional information and ticket orders ($8 and $6) may be obtained by phoning the Music Hall Office at (518) 273-0038. m I .• -._;:,:·,_,_·.·_ I ,. ·- .. . \'· h ; Check up to three: 0 ke • •• school. Handle diverse patient va~>O\'f work with sophisticated medical techrflclloav_ After graduation, your assign depends on the requirements of the~\' selected and the years of c:l\hof'\1\' assistance received (3 year mir1im1 be a military doctor with good pay, har,at.-tc and regular work hours. Best of all, you'll have valuable ence. A challenging job. And most of medical school bills paid. Don't wait to get the facts. Mail coupon below now. There is no obl'•n<~i!•nn ----- ----~--------­ . Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program 1cal school expenses. I understand there is no obligation. Scholarships, P.O. Box 1776, Station, NY 117 46-21 02 9005 Please print all information clearly and completely. I I I I I Name ----;::;;:::;-~--------;-=~:-:--------:--:-----D Male 0 Female 1 Firsl Middle ln1Ual Lasl Address--------,.----------Apt #----;::=::;:::::;:=:::;:=:;:::::::; I City ___________ state _______ Zipj I I I I I I 1;: Soc. Sec. No.I I I I OJ· I / I I I I ~ Birth OJ OJ []] I~ 1 College·----------------- Date 1·::; Mo Day Year Phone I I I 11'-----J'------L-..JI II J I I I Area Code Number 1-----1 . Graduation OJ []] I F1el~ of Study _ . Date Mo Year 1 ffi 1 The Information you voluntanlyprov1de Will be used for recrUiting purposes only_ The more complele;t;s,lhe better we 1 :x: .. can respond to your request. (Authority: 10, USC 503.) ~ • ••••••••••-•• ••••••••••••• -~u

Page22 CONCORDIENSIS, October 25, 1984 PORTS Preview of NFL Action By STEVE PffiAINO Sports Staff The following games will be played in the National Football League this weekend: AMERICAN CONFERENCE BUFFAL0(0-8) at MIAMI (8- 0)- This game should be a blow out, though the Dolphins did have trouble with the winless . Oilers earlier in the season. Last week Miami, led by QB Dan Marino, demolished the Patriots 44-24, and the Bills lost to Denver 37-7. The Bills should pray for snow in Miami. N.Y. JETS (6-2) at NEW ENGLAND (5-3)~The Pats are coming off of an embarrasing loss to Miami and have to win this game to stay in the race. The Jets beat the Chiefs last week 28~7. New England's front line must stymie Mark Gastineau who had two sacks and recovered a fumble for a TD against K.C. Look for a big game from Tony Eason. DENVER (7-1) at L.A. RAIDERS (7-1)-A battle for the top of the AFC West. The Raiders snuck by the injury riddled Chargers 44-37 last week, while the Broncos buried the Bills. L.A.'s Marc Wilson has done a great job filling in for Jim Plunkett, but don't be surprised if Denver pulls this one out. CINCINNATI (2-6) at HOUSTON (0-8)-Who cares? NATIONAL CONFERENCE WASHINGTON (5-3) at N.Y. fold behind the putrid kicking of Ali Haji-Shaikh (only 5 of 15 field goals). SAN FRANCISCO (7-1) at L.A. RAMS (5-3)- The Rams had a convincing victory over the Falcons Monday night, and the 49-ers beat hapless Houston 34-21. San Francisco, althGugh in first place of the NFC West, has not pla:red well in the past two weeks and the Rams are challenging them for the top. It should be a good one. ST. LOUIS (5-3) at PHILADELPHIA ( 4-4 )-Should be another good match up. Ron Jaworski sparked the Eagles to an upset of the Giants. He threw for three touchdowns. For the Cards, Neil Lomax and Roy Green combined to beat the Redskins 26-24. Kicker Neil O'Donahue redeemed himself by kicking the winning fieldgoal with 2: 53 left in the game. Philadelphia has won three in a row and should take the Cards. MINNESOTA ( 2-6) at CHICAGO (5-3)-If the Vikings want to stay in the hunt .for the NFC Central title they must beat the Bears. Easier said than done. Chicago destroyed Tampa Bay 44-9 last week, while Minnesota dropped a key game to the Lions. The Bears' defense has been tenacious, and Walter Payton has been running and gunning (he completed a 43 yard pass against the Bucs). This should be. an easy win· for the Bears. DETROIT (3-5) at GREEN BAY (1-7)-The Lions squeeked by the Vikings 16-14 last week, while the Packers dropped a close game to the Seahawks. A Detroit win coupled with a loss by the Bears would put them back in the play off picture. DALLAS fl?-3)-Sunday night the Cowboys made an amazing ·comeback to beat the Saints 30- 27 in overtime. Equally amazing was the Colts' victory over the first place Steelers. Dallas is now tied for first place with Washington and St. Louis. It will be interesting to see who starts at QB for Dallas. NEW ORLEANS (3a5) at CLEVELAND (1-7)-This is a pivotal game for the Saints. They had a big lead over the Cowboys last week but couldn't put them away. This week they must win to keep their play off hopes alive. T~MPA BAY (3•5) at KANSAS CITY (4-4)~A mat- chup between two mediocre teams who have both come .off hwniliating defeats. The Chiefs will win, but. will remain near the bottom ·Of the toughest division in football. ATLANTA (3-5) at PITT- SBURGH (4-4)-The Steelers should win, hut then again they should have beaten the Colts last week. The Falcons, like the Saints, are coming off a loss and must win. Even if the Steelers lose, it won't matter because no one will contest them for first place in the weak AFC central. MONDAY NIGHT GAME. SEATTLE ( 6-2 ) at SAN DIEGO (4-4)-Each team was involved in a close game last week. Seattle beat Green Bay, . and the Chargers lost to the Raiders. Crippling injuries to .San Diego receivers will leave Dan Fouts in a bind. Also, the Seahawks' combo of Dave Krieg and Steve Largent could be lots of trouble for the Chargers' secondary. J.V. Soccer Fini·shes Succe,ssfUI Season By FALCAO Sports Staff · The 1984 Union Men's J.V. soccer team concluded its season Saturday with a 5-4 decision over Berkshire Community College. This victory capped off , a highly successful 6-1-1 campaign in which the Dutchmen dominated the majority of the play and tied the all-time J. V. wins record. Managed by John McNamara, the booters kicked the season off with solid 3;.(1 and 3-1 wins over Hamilton and Binghamton. The third game -was the only defeat of the year as a strong Hartwick eleven held the Garnet to only one goal. Union's J. V. rebounded with a 3- 0 win over Hudson Valley. At the midpoint of the short season the record was 3-1 for the junior Dutchmen and the best soccer of the season still lay ahead. A 1- 1 draw at RPI spurred the squad to retaliate with a 2;.(1 homecoming weekend victory against the Engineers. The highlight of the se~son was a road victory in Williamstown, Massachusetts against a spirited Williams side. An early goal put the Dutchmen behind, but Chris Hartman tied the score with a twenty-yard- blast several minutes later. It was soon a contest between defenses. Union's defenders led by sweeper Brian Bakker repeatedly denied the Eph- men's thrusts. With three minutes remammg in regulation, an Andy Brown thrown ball found David Cope free and he slotted home the match-winning goal. The J.V. l)ooters played a sloppy, hotly contested final game. Scott Newman went goal- crazy with a Wayne Gretzkylike four tallies as well as an assist to give him a team~high seven goals and four assists. Newman was ably supported all season _long by four~goal scorer David Cope and forward Jeff Barker, Dean Law&on, Kevin· Wilson, James Sawyer, Drew Casciano and Andy Goldberg. The Dut- chmen notched a 5-4 victory in the game that would be best characterized by the 70 fouls committed by both teams and the three warning cards issued. On the whole, the season was a struggle to maintain con- sistency against mostly weaker opponents. The midfield play was solid, sometimes ev,en brilliant, as two-year men Andy Menzie and Paul Seline com- bined with freshmen Chris Hartman, Alex Baumann and Bobby Uao to serve as the link betwe.en the attack and the defense. The defense allowed eleven goals on the season, with goaltenders Mike Student and Ken Horan each notching a complete-game shutout. The four backs, Brain Bakker, Dan Pittinger, Kevin Bohn and Andy Brown played most of every game and formed a cohesive unit . that thwarted most op- ponents' scoring chances. Evan Lewis and Eric Lauerwald were ready substitutes and con- tributed to and must share in · the success of the defensive unit. GIANTS (4-4)-The Redskins lost a heartbreaker to the Cards last week and will be out for blood, while the Giants lost to the surprising Eagles. The NFC East has become a battle ground, with all five teams in contention. Expect the Giants t~ INTERCONFERENCE INDIANAPOLIS (3-5) at Albany Invy. Saturday The strength of the J. V. soccer program reflects positively the strength of the whole program and is a worthy backup to the state's best soccer team. All Are Welcome To The Union College Investment Alliance Meeting -Tonight, Thurs., Oct .. 25 7 p.m. in Conf. Rm. A (Carnegie) Voting will take place so all financial members must attend. If you are unable to attend p,lease contact Russ 377-7831 or Marc 6727. By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff This Saturday the men's cross country team takes a 3-0 dual meet record and a fine showing at the LeMoyne Invy to Albany for the annual Albany Invitational. After not racing this past weekend, Russ Ebbet's varsity charges should be well rested for this upcoming showdown with many of the teams they have already faced. This season tne Dutchmen proved to be a much improved team by defeating many of the teams they suffered losses to during the '83 season including Mid- dlebury whom they face again on Saturday. Union's goal now will be to prove to the teams from the Capital District and the State that they can also do well in big meet competition. As the Dutchmen enter the championship season, they will be running in races made _up of large numbers of competitors. This is where depth and the ability to run close as a team is necessary for a swuad to do well. This year Union has these - qualities. Led by number one man, Chris O'Donnell, Union has a legitimate blue chi'pper who is capable of running up there with the best in the state. The junior from Vermont has been running better and better every week and Coach Ebbets is sure to have him peaked for the State Meet and the NCAA Qualifiers. Running fairly close to O'Donnell this season has been sophomore Bob Stenard and junior Billy McRoberts. Stenard is coming off a strong race where he edged out McRoberts for second on the team behind O'Donnell. Another strong runner for the Dutchmen will be sophomore Neil Ricis. Although he placed fifth for the team two weeks ago, with a good rest, Ricks is capable of challenging for the second or third spot. The depth of the Union harriers is evident in the race for fifth man. Sophomore Mike Reed, junior Tim Orcutt, and freshman Pat DiCerbo are all capable of running good enough to score. The two that end up not scoring will be valuable in displacing runners with a dif- ferent color uniform. Running as a team, the Dutchmen have finished as close as 21 seconds apart for the top five. This ability to run close will work in Union's favor as they will be able to work together as a team. After the Albany Invy this Saturday, the Dutchmen will run in the IC4A's on October 30 with the New York State Meet next Saturday on November 3rd. The following Saturday will. see the Dutchmen in the NCAA Qualifier for the right to go to the NCAA cross country championships. This past Saturday the men's J.V. cross country team did run at Central Park defeating Skidmore 15-50. Leading the Dutchmen in this decisive win was freshman Jim LeBrou covering the five mile course in 28:07. The Union women traveled to RPI on Saturday to race the Engineers and Sienna. Without a full team Union placed sophomore Amy Walsh third in a fine individual performance. lambert/Meadowland Cup Division Ill Football 1. Union ( 4) 6-0 49 2. Hofstra 7-0 41 3. Plymouth St. 7-0 32 4. Norwich 6-1 25 5. Ithaca 6-1 21 6. Kings Point 5-0-1 20 6. Amherst 5-0 20 8. Salisbury St. 6-1 19 9. Wash. & Jeff. 6-1 7 9. Swarthmore 5·1 7 Reminder To Union Community Anyone with valid Union identification card will be admiHed to the 10/27 Varsity Football game at Williams . free of charge._ Limited admittance I D. on,e. per - .. D: Ji ] H tc fi g: OJ tt w t~ tt tl p Sl 0 Cl u S] p g sl '\ h c, h

es ~n the ~yed a final goal- zkylike as~ist seven ewman season Dut- ~tory in best 0 fouls and issued. ~on was con- play ev.en ~n Andy e com- Chris and link the with ~nt and bing a The ~r. Dan every op- Evan were con- ~are in ~fensive e J.V. eflects of the worthy soccer Cup ~ 49 41 32 25 21 20 20 19 7 7 • 1 on /27 ams. per ___ ,_ __ ..::..._ _____________ ___.:CI:...:O::N.:..:(:.:'O~R:,:::DIENSIS. Octob~e_r_ls ....... _l9_8_4 ____ ....;...._ _______ _.._ ____ p,....:ag::..e--23 Athlete of the Week By PAUL KURKER Sports Staff Congratulations to senior Diane Moskaluk and sophomore JimmY Monks for sharing this week's Athlete of the Week honors. Diane has been a starter for Diane Moskaluk the varsity .field hockey team since her freshman year and was the most valuable player last year. This season, Diane netted four goals for the 4-10 Dutchwomen, tying · her for second on the team. Moskaluk ends a fine field hockey career at Unioli in which she scored twenty .goals as a starting forward. Diane was the team's leading scorer in her sophomore and junior years and a co- captain this year. Diane resides season, however, Jim has played halfback because aU .four starters were lost to graduation. Despite the ,change, . Monks has three goals and six assists for 12 points on the season. Jim is from Hyde Park, NY and is a brother at the Delta Phi fraternity. in Massapequa, NY and is a sister at the Delta Gamma sorority. · Jim Monks ofthe 7-1-1 soccer team had an outstanding game ·last Saturday as he tallied one goal· and three assists in the Dutchmen's 10-1 victory at Plattsburgh. As a forward, Jimmy was the team's leading ~ scorer last season with 29 points .r::. which set a college scoring ~ record for a freshman. This ;:;; Jim Monks F. }J:o.ckey Blanks Potsdam ByCATHYDUFFY entire game. P.~t~m was Dianne Moskaluk. Union Sports Staff th11!lderstr~ck at _the, opening continued their intense play whtstle wtth Uruon s br.eak through the final seconds of the The Union College Field Hockey team had a strong finish to their 1984 season. They finished their seasQn with a two game series against. two tough opponents. Union finished 1-1 in this series. On Friday, they were defeat-ed-· \by·· Manhat- tanville by the score 2.;(). And, in their final game of the season, they were triumphant over Potsdam by the impressive score of 3-0. downfiel~t:'}Vi~ii¥ .the first 33 game to defeat Potsdam 3-0. seconds or tfile' game, Lillian· Overall Union had a Tyree put Union on the respectibel season. Although scoreboard, by fin~ssing t~e they were a young team they bal~ past .Potsdam s goahe. played well together against Umon co?tmued to _penetrate some. of the top teams in the Potsdam s defensive end. area. Union started out the Fr~.sbman._C.arolyn Zutell and season welhbut suffered losses He~en Golightly helJ!ed ke~p on the road. They finsshed the Unto? on attack wtth their season with an impressive win, consi~tent, a_ccurate passes to demonstrating their ability and the lme. Umon outhustled the desire to win. Coach Robert is opponent for the remainder of looking forward to a winning the firs~ half, Wit~ ~ess. than season next year, with all of the three mmutes remammg m the talented players returning next half, Cheryl Washburn scored year. SPORTS ScottWykoH On Sports This time of the year is probably the busiest for our college's athletic department. Many Dutchmen squads are turning the corner for the year while a number of winter teams are preparing for respective season openers. Here are a few notes off the cuff to try to keep you up to date on some of the many athletic happenings. New Heights: Hats off to Albany Ladder and the Athletic Department for the fantastic new press box at the astroturf field. Amazingly enough the new structure went up in a matter of four days. Albany Ladder designed the new media purch and fit all the pieces prior to bringing the parts to be assembled behind the stands. Dick Sakala is happy with the new press box .but is quick to comment that it is not a per- manent structure and that a permanent one is planned when new seating can be purchased for the field. The first level will be used by broadcast and print media. The second level will be used for camera crews, coaches and dignatries. Johnson & Johnson: Due to injuries,two Dutclunen football players have called it quits for '84. George Capozzi, who in- ju~ed his hand during the Colby game, has decided to take the term off and return to school this winter. Since he saw limited playing time, George will be able to return to the gridiron next season. The cast was put on his writing hand and G~orge decided that it would be too difficult to attempt to finish the term without being able to write. This past week senior punter Mark McKelvey decided to call it quits. McKelvey has been suffering from a double hyernia throughout the season and has come to the conclusion that it would be best to get the injury operated on as soon as possible. Mark has held down the Dutchmen's punting duties for the past three years and retires from college football having made quite a con- .tribution to Union's football turnaround. Upset City: Last week saw a couple of very big upsets around eastern football. In addition to West Virginia's come from behin_d win over Boston College, 9amllton trounced Trinity while WPI lost its 2nd game of the season. ·ailing to Bates. The Bobcats from up Maine way used one of the easts bests defenses to shut down WPI' s top ball carrier, Mike Carbone, enroute to a 33-24 white washing of the Engineers. Powered by the arm of Seamus Crotty the Continentals to our west ha~ded the previously undefeated Bantams from Trinity their ~first loss of the year. The Dutch- man and the Continentals have a date to dance three weeks down the road. Last year Hamilton was almost able to knock the cinderella Dutchme'l out of post season .play. Fall Sticks: The women's field hockey team wrapped up the fall campaign last weekend and senior Diane Moskaluk walked off the turf for the last time of her college career. The Massapequa native was a standout during her four years of play and over that span Diane scored 20 goals for the garnet. Union played a hard-fought game against Manhattanville, only to be defeated 2.;(). Union came out fighting in the first half, but was unable to initiate an attack. Union's defense played an incredible game working the ball out of Union's defensive end. Senior, Carolyn Gilbert played an over- whelming game on defense consistently breaking up Manhattanville's offensive threat. Fran Czajka turned in another fine performance keeping the defensive unit in: tact. Wendy Milas played an outstanding game with her consistent stops and drives up!i~ld. Despite Union's high- spmted efforts and aggressive play, they could not muster a goal against Manhattan~ille's strong defense. with an assist from Tyree. Union maintained their of·· fensive threat in the second half. \ Potsdam did come down on attack in this half, only to be turned back by Union's defensive unit, led by goalkeeper Jean Monaco. Monaco played an exceptional game in goal, recording a well- deserved shut out. She cleared many would-be goals 'out of the circle. Anne Skalyo and Paula Nadeau picked up Monaco's strong clears and fed the ball upfield to initiate Union's at- tack. Freshman Kristie Rodenheiser played an aggressive game, working the ball up field on the wing, and crossing the ball in front of the goal. Sophomore Elaine Pick played a smart game, dodging Potsdam's defense and feeding the ball to the line. Union scored again at 18:34 on a goal by Dutchmen Booters Explode On Saturday, Union played what was perhaps their finest hockey of this season. Union came ouf fired-up in the first half. They dominated play the f. ~~- - ... ,, .... ~ ·,~-~;;,;-~,y· ' ' Senior Mid-fielder Carolyn Gilbert drives the ball upfield in recent action against Mahattanville. . . ByADAMF_ALK Sports Staff The Dutchmen enjoyed great success this past week by defeating Siena College and Plattsburgh State, respectively. These victories were a \real shot in the arm\ after Union suffered their first loss to R.P.I. last Saturday. Coach Magee feels that these two victories, ''may be the turning point which could vault the Dutchmen to another NCCAA tour- nament.\ The fun began last Wed- nesday as the• ·Dutchmen soundly defeated the Indians of Siena, 3-1. Leading .scorer Doug Wilk began the attack by net- ting his sixth goal of the season. Grant Foreman, Uniw's defensive mainstay, added to Union'sscoring drive by putting in his first goal of the season. Foreman said after the game \of all the goals I've scored' that one felt the best.'' Sien~ fought back with an early second half goal, but senior captain Pete Steggemen \shut the door\ on the Indians, by scoring his sixth goal of the season. Saturday afternoon, Union traveled to Plattsburgh to take on, what was considered to be a tough Cardinal team. Doug Wilk started things off by scoring two goals within the first five minutes. After an unfortunate Plattsburgh · goal, the \fire- works\ began for the Dut- chmen, scoring eight unan- swered goals. Bob Crandall, used primarily as a defensive player, showed he was a force to be reckoned with on offense as well. Crandall scored two goals in the first half, and added one more in the second, completing his first career hat trick at Union College. Other goal scorers for the Dutchmen were freshman striker Dave Tewksbury, one which will enter the record books as well. This was the first time in Dutchmen history that ten goals were scored in a single game. This broke the previously existing record of nine, set in 1983. This week the Dutchmen travel to nearby Skidmore Scoring bids like this have lifted the Dutchmen over recent op- ponents Siena and Plattsburgh. The booters host Rochester on SaturdaY. Sophomores Jay Davis, Jim Monks (who also had three assists), and ~enior captain Pete Steggemen. This was Steggemen's seventh goal of the season, which now places him third on Union's all-time scoring list. Besides being a \confidence booster\ for the hooters, Saturday's victory is College on Wednesday, then come home to play the Yellow Jackets of Rochester on Saturday. The hooters feel that playing with intensity and enthusiasm, brought them to victory last week, and now plan to play with the same spirit in quest of their NCAA playoff birth. I SUPPORT UNION SPORTS c: tO E ~ ... Ill c: tO 0 >- .c 0 ... 0 .t: 0. I

::= ·;;::: .... QJ :E a.. >- .0 0 .... 0 .c 0. Page24 CONCORDIENSIS, October 25, 1984 • a • beat SUNY Bing. for title Ruggers Capture Championship .. ·· ByUCRFC Sports Staff From here the RFC hit the road with their- unblemished record to the city of Buffalo The Rugby Gl,ub capp~d off where it met Binghamton in the its finest season ever by ·championship game. Li:ke swee.ping the Division II Union, Binghamton had run up Upstate Rugby Union Michelob some impressive statistics Cup Series after edging SUNY during its season. Supporting an at Binghamton 6-3 in the u n d e .f e at e d r e c o r d , championship Saturday. Binghamton's defense had The team gained its cham- allowed a mere four points in as pionship berth by eliminating many games and led Division II Potsaam the previous Saturday in point difference. But this did on Library Field. Expected to not phase the Garnet. be the game of the season, the Taking the field after the Homecoming clash turned out Division I championship in to be nothing but a rout .for the which the University of Buffalo Garnet. The home ruggers put defeated Cortland State, the on an impressive show as they fired-up Union squad began its completely dominated play, drive for the crown in what w:as shutting down what was scouted to turn out to be a controversial to be an explosive offensive game. After fifteen minutes in team. John Friske led the list of which niether side dominated, ~\\ .. ' } ··di> The undefeated rugby team had a fine fall season as they won the division II Upstate Rugby Union championship on Saturday. zone. On a broken play, Klumpp gained possession and put a foot on the ball. A second boot from Hart put the ball in the try-zone, but it was a little too much as Summers could not get to the ball in time before it went out of bounds. The second half was .marked !Jy tough hitting and close defensive play. The Union forwards together with fhe backs closed down the on- coming ruggers from Binghamton. Each time the opposition was met by the likes of Jim McNeil, John Friske, Steve Konlian, Steve Lipsky, and Jeff Albrook. Another questionable Union penalty though put Binghamton up on the board as, after .switching to a second kicker, a penalty kick was made good and the score stood at 6-3. The celebration had begun. LiteraUy, the roadtrippers went wild. Buffalo may never be the same. Sunday the Club went international as it crossed the Canadian border to view Niagara Falls. The cham- pionship trophy resides at Slapshots where it was cordially baptized upon the Club's return to Union. · The team will not end its fall play here though. Several Union ruggers will be heading back to Rochester where they will participate in the Upstate Rugby Union select side try- outs. The rest of the team -will journey to Amherst College for an 11:00 scrimmage. ' Lastly, the Club would like to thank the parents of Steve Lipsky and Jim McNeil for their hospitality which made the trip that much more enjoyable. Dutchmen Sportsweek October 25-31 Thursday 10/25 Women's Soccer at Colgate Volleyba·ll at New England College vs. N EC and Albertus Magnus Friday 10/26 W. Tennis at RO!=hester, NYSAIAW thru 10128 Saturday J.0/27 FootbaH at Williams Men's Soccer vs. Rochester Men's X·Country at Albany, Albany I nvy Women's X·Country, NYSAIAW Vol'leybaiJ, NIAC Tourney thru 10/28 Monday 10/29 J. v. Footba Hat Albany State Men's Soccer at Colgate Tuesday 10/30 Women's Soccer at Albany State Men's X ·Country at East Stroudsberg, I C4A Volleyball vs. Hamilton, Plattsburgh Wednesd·ay 10/31 Men's Soccer vs. Vassar, . Union 27 Union3 Union 10 ·. Union 3 Siena 2 Union 2 Union 50 Siena 5 Oneonta 6 Unions Siena 2 Manhattanvi lie 2 Union 3 Union.22 Union 15 Garnet Scoreboard October 15,.21 FOOTBALL (6'0) MEN'S SOCCER (7·1·1) WOMEN'S SOCCER (4·1·4) VOLLEYBALL (9·2·6) J.V. FOOTBALL (4\0) WOMEN'S TENNIS (3·8) J.V. SOCCER (6·1·1) FIELD HOCKEY (4·10) MEN'S X-COUNTRY (3·0) 4 p.m. 6p.m. 1 :30 p.m. 1.:30 p.m. Jp.m. 2p.m. 3p.m. 6:30p.m. I 2:30p.m. Coast Guard 10 Siena 1 Plattsburgh 1 RPI1 · Union 0 St. Rose 0 RPI 12 Union 2 Union 3 Berkshire 4 Union 0 Union 0 Potsdam o RPI 34 Skidmore 50 SUPPORT UNION SPORTS scorers with two tries, one coming off a breakaway and dump by Meade Summers. Union led at the half after Friske's first try and a second by Ed Hart, who playing heads- up ball caught Potsdam sleeping after an infraction was called. Matt Schambers con- verted the goal and the Garnet led 10-o at the five-minute break. The second half showed nothing but continued Union domination. Three more unanswered tries by Friske, Doug Batimgarten, and Steve Cole with an additional con- version by Schambers sealed Dutchmen Sink Coast Guard By TED CANNON . Sports Staff detectable, possibly this was the case last Saturday as the of- fense, despite appearing sloppy, did put 27 points on the ·board. • the 24-o romp. the Garnet took control. The Club surged down deep into Binghamton's zone, but were held off time and time again. Yet the Garnet tide could not be held back forever. The serum which has been strong all season, gained advantage. Jeff Wilson worked the ball out to his line which then moved the ball forward. A Binghamton penalty at this point proved costly. From Wilson to Gene Gas out to Meade Summers, and Union's penalty play was on the move. After a fake platform, Summers pitched out to Doug Baumgarten who in turn fed Ed Hart the ball. Hart broke two tackles and put the ball down for a Union try. Matt Scham- bers split the uprights on the conversion and the Garnet took the lead 6-a. Junior noseguard Tony Valente and senior safety Lenny Huttner anchored a solid defensive performance to lead the Dutchmen to a hard-fought 27-10 win over the Coast Guard Academy. Junior distance placekicker Pete Cohan got the Dutchmen on the board first by nailing a ' 42-yard fieldgoal. Roger Harris with a 6-yard touchdown pass, which was · Harris' first career touchdown reception. Junior placekicker Greg Sticka (2 P.A.T.'s) drilled a 22-yard fieldgoal to round out Union's offense. ·The day may prove to have been a costly one for the Dut- chmen as Junior linebacker Pat Wright went down with a knee injury and may miss at least the next two games. Wright has led Union's highly tltuted defense in statistics all season long until he left the game early last Saturday. More importantly, Wright simply holds the defense together by making few mistakes and playing solid, hard-hitting football up the middle. With three tough games remaining in the regular season for Union, his return will most certainly boost Union's playoff hopes. After the A game, the Killer B's took to the field and picked up their second victory in three games. With the help of several experienced alumni, the Garnet edged Potsdam 4-{) in a tight, defensive game. After a scoreless first half, alumni Steve Testo and Chris Cernik · took advantage of an opportune serum-down. At a five-meter serum, Testo broke off from the back of the pack, faked, and pitched to Cernik who dove in · for the only try of the game. The conversion attempt failed, but the winning margin had already been achieved. A noteworthy game was turned in by J.R. Fortunato, Ira Suckman, Rich Allen, and Dave Blee. At this point the referee took over as he began to call a controversial game. The flow of the game was completely halted as whistle after whistle was made. Five of these calls turned out to be penalties ag'linst Union, but the opposition failed to take advantage as all first half penalty kicks fell short. Union nearly had itself another score before the half. Some crisp passing out from Andy Klumpp to Steve Cole who fed the ball to Rob Israel moved the Garnet again towards the try- Crew at Charles By SANDY NAGLER Sports Staff The Union College Crew Team traveled to Boston this past weekend for the Twen- tieth annual Head-of-the- Charles Regatta. The Charles is the largest single day Regatta in the world. There are 18 separate events with 40 boats entered in each division. Union competed in the Women's Club Eights Division. They rowed down the three mile ~course in 20:23-a very respectable time for the novice crew. They beat out Hamilton by seven seconds and Interlocken Boat Club by more than 20 seconds. They had trained hard all last week with John Ciovacco as their cox- swain and waking up at 5:45 a.m. on cold, foggy mornings to row. The boat was stroked by Andrea Buzasi, Karen St. Germain, Georgia Sullivan, Gail Miller, Olivia Listzwan, SandyNagler,Ann Marie Loftus and Darcee Evans. The one-year-old team con- tinues to train hard as they prepare for their next regatta scheduled for Nov. 11 at Rochester for the Head-of-the- Genesee. Valente was literally all over the field with 10 first hits, 1 assist, and two sacks. He constantly pressured the Coast Guard quarterback all game long, as Coast Guard simply had no one to block him. · Huttner had a nose for the ball . throughout the afternoon. Several hard hits and his two interceptions (11 career) helped keep the Bears off balance. Senior Bob Bertagna provided a great tandem .by picking off his 14th career interception. Junior linebacker Marty Glaze and sophomore back Dale Bajcer also had one interception apiece. On the day, the defense allowed just 64 total yards on 67 plays. On the ground, the defense yielded only 12 yards on 34 attempts. On. the offensive side of the coin, it was a very -sloppy day for Union. The offense gave the ball away six times; five fumbles and one interception. The interception led to a Coast Guard fieldgoal, and a fumble was returned for a touchdown, to account for all of Coast Guard's points. Perhaps, however, we are spoiled by an offensive unit that has rolled up points in a machine-like fashion over the last few years. When any extremely well tuned machine· has even the slightest problem it is highly With 1:10 remaining in the first half, quarterback Dan Stewart extended his NCAA record streak of throwing at least 1 touchdown pass in 28 straight games, by hitting tightend Frank Kraft for a 44- yard touchdown. Kraft, after J;unning over 2 Coast Guard defenders, did some nifty running for the touchdown (16th career) to give the Dutchmen a 10-0 halftime edge. Senior tailback John Johnson had a brilliant day'. rushing for 133 yards on 27 carries. Johnson put the Dutchmen up 17-3 in the third quarter, with a four-yard score (23rd career rushing). 'IJle Dutclunen finished their scoring in the fourth quarter. Stewart hit senior flanker Next week, the Dutchmen travel to Williams for a 1:30 game with the always strong Ephmen; Senior tailback John Johnson breezes by a Coast Guard lineman en route to a portion of his 133 yards on the day. ~ ro 1J V• ro 0 ... u 1J ·;; ro 0 > .0 0 0 .c: c. ( - > .>(. <[> c E ro ~ > .. .. ro ..J > .0 0 .... 0 r. 0. J. c Sl p: c a1 st u tE a1 pi u jc s g Vi p J N p d fi j< f< fl \ F f< . ' h 0

