ru r: 't 0 ~ (/) ~ r: I'C I.. LL > ..0 0. .s:: 0. <II Ill tll :.2 u Q) c .c a. Ill 0 >. ..0 ~ ..c a. Coordinatnr of the CHUC Program, Professor Robert IBaker, acquaints humanities students with -the computer. February 2, 1984 CHUC Takes a Byte Into ''Computer Age'' By LISA J. FOLEY Staff Union is among the first liberal arts colleges to adopt Digital Equipment Cor- poration's CHUC, the Computer Humanities Curriculum. Professor Robert Baker of the philosophy department and coordinator of the experimental project at Union, believes that CHUC is significant for hurtlanities majors because it acquaints them with computer skills they will need in the current computer age job market. Presently, one third of the preceptorial classes lind a select few language and philosophy courses will require as of Monday, January 23 that the students learn to use CHUC. There are fifteen terminals available to accommodate these classes and seven teacher terminals located in each of these professor's offices. humanities students. This trimester; approximately one hundred students will use CHUC. By spring term, Baker projects that one hundred and fifty students will participate; by next fall he expects two hundred students to join in. Currently, in its experimental phase, only those students in the designated classes can use CHUC. New Fraternity Created CHUC performs many func- tions, but the computer has primarily three functions. First, CHUC has a program disc that teaches students how to use the terminals. For the preceptorial classes CHUC will act as a word processor, allowing students to revise their papers easily. And for students of language and philosophy, CHUC will have homework assignments that students work on with the computer. The expansion of the program rests as much on its usefulness as on the availability of funds to support the project. The largest financial supporter is · the Digital Computer Corporation, who donated $88,000 in com- puter equipment. Union's funds provided a total of $58,800, $48,800 from the internal education fund and $10,000 from the general college fund. The Sloan Foundation showed its approval of the project with a one-time donation of $25,000, that it awards to different schools each year. By THE BROTHERS OF AWHA PHI ALPHA ..... On May 29, 1983, eight Union students were initiated into the Alpha Pbi Alph~ frate~ity. This . fratern~ty bas over four hundred graduate and un~ dergraduate- chapters throughout the world. The eight students were initiated. into a graduate chapter, Beta Pi Larribda, located in Albany, New York. The qualities of the Alpha Phi Alpha. fraternity attracted enough students at Union to seek membership and start a chartered cMpter. Through the involved efforts of biology _ professor George Sinith, an Alpha alumni and a member of the Beta Pi Lambda graduate chapter of Alpha, an official pledge-club was established early last spring. Smith had assistance from the Alpha men of the Beta Pi Lambda graduate chapter in Albany, o£ which Union biology professor, Twitty Styles is a member. The new brothers include juniors Greg Bowler, Larry Romaine, John Johnson and Winston Britton. The soph9more brothers are Marty Glaze, Phil Gist; Jim Mann, and Reinhard Walker. As pledges, known as \Sphinxmefi the eight students were seen marching around campus singing pledge songs of Alpha, reciting poems of encouragement, serenading their pledge club sweetheart, and givirig flowers to senior citizen mothers at the Annie Shaffer Senior Citizen's center on Mother's Day. This· activity generated interested on . the College campus, and students began asking about the new fraternity. Although the name is new to the College community. the Alpha Phi Alp}la fraternity is seventy-seven years old. It was formed in 1906 at Cornell University by seven black students .. The racial cleavage • that was characteristic of this period ·established the basis for the division of races even in college life. These seven students were seeking more beneficial contacts than their classroom study permitted. Thus, confronted by the social proscriptions - or race which prohibited them from joining the university's fraternal associations, these students began the first black Greek- letter fraternal organization. Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity has grown from seven to over eig)lty thousand members. It is now a prestigious national and international fraternity.: \the object of Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity is to stimulate the ambitions of its members, to prepare them for the greatest usefulness in the causes of humanity, freedom and dignity of tbe individual, to encourage the highest and noblest form of manhood, and to aid down- trodden humanity in its efforts to achieve higher social, economic and intellectual status.\ Webster's Dictionary defines a fraternity as a state of brotherly relationship within a student organization, formed chiefly to. promote friendship and welfare among the mem- . bers. Alpha Phi Alpha believes it extends this into a family of coniraderie with the spirit of high idealism and community service as its number one priority. The fraternity's motto is the following: \First of all, servants of all, we shall tran\ scend all.\ The fraternity's motto and high ideals are self-.evident in its list of known Alphas. These alumni include W.E.B. DuBois, Jesse Owens, Hubert Hum- . phrey, Thurgood Marshall, Andrew Young, and the late Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. These are prestigious footsteps to_ follow but at the same time offer excellent models. Apparently, it is not easy to become a member .of this fraternity. The chapter believes that prospective brothers must be versatile, scholarly, am- bitious, gentlemanly, and possessive of tenacity. The brothers e~phasize tenacity for they believe that wi,thout the will to succeed, any minor obstacle in one's path will divert one from one's goals. The eight Union un- dergraduate members of Alpha Phi Alpha are currently seeking their own chapter charter to become the official \new fraternity\ on campus, In the meantime, they are planning various activities for the rest of the year including support for local churches, senior citizens, the Salva~ion Army, the United · Negro College Fund, etc. The brothers are committed to help the coilliiiunity and the people in it. The undergraduate of- ficers are the following: Presi~ent Marty Glaze, Vice PresJd~nt John J Qhnson, Secretary Larry Romaine, Treasurer Reinhard Walker, Historian Jim Mann, and Dean of Pledges Winston Britton. Alpha Phi Alpha not only has the distinction of being the first black fraternity but was the first one to become interracial in 1954. The undergraduate men of Alpha at Union wish to start their own chapter because they believe in what they call its \high ideals.\ They also think that service and conunitment can be very beneficial to the campus coiiimunity and the town of Schenectady. The brothers at Union have since strived to make their presence In its latter two functions, CHUC's teacher terminals can gain access to students' papers and homework assignments, checking their students' progress and recognizing their strengths and weaknesses. Baker hopes that in about two years the project will expand at Union to include all the known both on and off campus. They believe that it should only be a matter of time before Alpha establishes a chartered chapter at Union. Of course, the brothers will benefit greatly from the support Fifteen teaching assistants will aid students in using the computer. With their help, a conUnued show of enthusiasm, and proper funds, the program could ease the transition of humanities students into a new job market that demands a basic knowledge of computer operation. of the Union community in their efforts to grow, and they are looking forward to sharing with the school what they believe to be the exciting and benficial experiences that they have to offer. SWTC Poll Results Questio~: Are you in favor of the proposed Split Winter Term Calendar? y N u T Freshmen 147 65 12 224 Sophom()res 108 109 8 225 Juniors 75 110 9 194 Seniors 39 66 3 108 TOTALS 369 350 32 751 students participated in the poll .. WRUC Advised Dutchmen Victory pa.ge2 page 16

• t, I i W RUC, \Showcase for all College Radio Stations\ Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa has ,been appointed Chairman-of the WR UC Advisory Committee. By JAN BARAN Associate News Editor The first meeting of the WRUC Advisory Committee was held on Thursday, January 26, 1984. After the station ex- panded its broadcasting capacity to one hundred watts, President Morris recognized that it would now \have the potential to represent the College to a much broader constituency than in the past.\ Consequently, he appointed a Magaz.ine Established A ne.w highly innovative foreign affairs magazine, en- titled WORLD VIEW, has come . on to the scene in Albany. soon to spread to Troy and Schenectady. The magazine, published by the Albany Student Press, · presents in-depth features and analysis of world events written by professors, students and an international netowrk of correspondents. By focusing solely on world issues, the magazine's editors hope to increase international awareness as well as fill a gap in an;a publications. Forum for issues WORLD VIEW was the \brainchild'' of SUNY Albany student Brian Jacobs, a senior political science-English major and chairman of SUNY's Amnesty International group. Originally, the magazine was inspired by his desire to create a forum for human rights issues. Although there is a small section on Amnesty Inter- national concerns, the paper has become a forum for a wide range of ideas, opinions, ob- servations, and reports on .an international scope. The first twenty-four page issue (financed entirely through advertising and a small loan from the Albany Student Press Corporation) was published 1n late December and is being distributed throughout the month of January. Publication . will continue on a monthly basis. After a successful first issue, Jacobs has expressed his desire to expand the magazine to Union and R.P.I. He believes thal the Capitol District area is rich in human resources and is encouraging literary con- tribution from area students and faculty. Judybeth Greene, a senior political science major at Union and chairman of Union Amnesty International group, will be coordinating a staff at Union to contribute to WORLD VIEW, If you wish to take part in this effort, Greene can be reached at 374-9151 or Box Number 1245 .. Forum Cautions Funding By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Features Editor The Student Forum held a meeting this past Monday, January 30. Numerous issues were examined. At the start of this last meeting, Student Forum President Winthrop Thurlow introduced the three newly elected forum members. They are: Matt Nankin; senior class representative, and Steven Moss and Sam White; freshman class representatives. Coll11Ilittee Reports Following the usual weekly procedure, the committee reports were presented first. Steven Benson, the independent student coalition (ISC) representative examined the action the campus has taken on the TAP parity legislation. A new rsc committee has been formed on campus. At this committee's first meeting, it discussed possible courses of action to arouse student interest in the TAP parity lobbying efforts. Some of these ideas included a petition drive and a letter writing campaign. In addition, the ISC will begin lobbying efforts next week. The future lobby day for Union is tentatively scheduled for Tuesday, March 6. Because of the absence of Joe Bogan, the Inter Fraternity Council (IFC) representative, Jim Parsons; senior representative, presented the (IFC) report. On February 1, the IFC plans to have a meeting on alcohol awareness and fraternity liability in serving alcoholic beverages at parties. In addition, the IFC is spon- soring a Leukemia Swimathon later this month. Forum President Thurlow read the minutes of the last Academic Affairs Council meeting. Last week, the AAC approved History 56--\The History of Poland.\ It also dropped History 155--\The Russian Revolution and the New Regime.\ A committee has been formed to review a possible geology major at Union. Professor Arnold Seiken of the math department has been asked to charr the com- mittee. Lastly, the AAC began discussion on the ABET report- the engineering department accredidation report. Ben Heckscher Vice President for Finance, presented the Finance Com- mittee's reports. At its last meeting, the Finance Com- mittee approved an additional·· funding request by the Black and Latin Alliance of Students (BLAS) to present the show ''For Colored Girls Only.\ The performance date has been set as March 10. A motion was made to allocate the additional $430. It passed, 12 yes, 2 no and 1 abstain. Heckscher then reported that there is $1791 remaining in the student ac- tivities budget to be allocated. Lastly, the Finance Committee began to discuss .the numerous financial problems with WRUC's phone system. Jared Squires, Committee on Committees (COC) chairman, presented the COC report. Nothing new was reported, although the COC should have some constitutions ready for approval by next week. Freshmen Banquet The focus of the meeting then shifted to \old business.\ The success of the freshman banquet was mentioned. Quotes such as \It was teri'ific,\ and \. .. a big success,\ were elicited by several of the forum members. Only one problem was seen with the dinner-\The purpose to be served. by the dinner was very ambiguous,\ stated Sophomore Represen- tative Andrew George. Last to be discussed, and what proved to be an issue of major importance, was an informal proposal made by Junior Trustee Shari Midoneck. ''It just seems that we keep blindly funding all of these new organizations,\ she stated. \When is it going to stop? We must set up some sort of guidelines in order to determine which clubs are active, and serve a student's activity needs.'' Her motion was a follows: \Proposed: , Each funded student activity should submit a monthly report (to the COC) stating the club's activity for that month. If, for three months, the club shows no activity, or a decline in activity, then the issue sHould be brought before the Forum in order to take action on the club's status.\ Pro-Con arguments Several arguments were presented pro and con. In _ particular, one came from Jared Squires; \I do not know if it is within our authority to determine who is worthy of funding and who is not. Also, the COC should be consulted before any sort of this proposal is sent before the forum. (Midoneck and Thurlow suggested the creation of a special ad hoc committee to look into this).\ Midoneck responded to Squire's.and similar criticisms; \Guidelines. of some sort are necessary- Especially with all of the proposed new clubs-how will we fund them? If I ever wanted any motion of mine passed, this should be the one.\ · With those last comments a roll call vote was taken-4 yes, 6 no and 5 abstain. It was decided; however, to continue examining the matter. The forum then adjourned until next week. committee of seven members, including two students, to ''provide a broad spectrum of responsible counsel to the station's inanag~ent. '' Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa, the chairman of this eornrhittee, commented on this action by the President: \With the potential of WRUC impacting on the: College's public image; I believe that the Presidentsaw a needforfaculty advisors and students not directly involved with the stat,ion to offer their advice and suggestions. to the executive board of WRUC.\ In order to previde the station with the most beneficial input, Morris appointed faculty members and students to the committee who are not af- filiated with the station but who would still have Some knowledge of radio program- ming and broadcasting. For example, Massa was chosen. as chairman of this committee because of his in- volvement with student organizations. Professor Edward Craig of the electrical engineering department was chosen because he could give advice on technical' issues if needed. The experience of Professor Byron Nichols in politics and campaign issues could also · be helpful in providing input on future political debates in this cam- paign year. only with advice and counsel to the WRUC Executive Board. Massa stressed at the meeting that this committee has no official pewer and thus will not \dictate flOlicy to the WRUC Executive Board.\ Another issue discussed at the meeting· was the agenda of the committee. The first few meetings will be spent familiarizing the committee with the operations. of the station. Issues. such as the philosophy ·. of WRUC, programming, technical aspects of the. .station, and financial resources will be examined so that the committee can· provide helpful and informed suggestions to the WRUC Executive Board. ·.The programming of WRUC will be a central focus of the committee. As Massa observed, the station now has the entire Capital . District Area for a potential audience and .not just the Union campus. He sees ''no reason wny WRUC cannot be a showcase for all college radio stations.\ Consequently, plans to diversify the station are being considered. One such program already on the ail' is the \Circle of Controversy\ program which features political speakers and analyses of their presentations. ... ;, .. ~. \. . . this committee . will not dictate policy to the WRUC Executive Board.\ -\Massa In addition, Jack Maranville, Executive Associate to the President, will aid the com- mittee by representing the views of Morris and giving him - direct feedback. For advice on ========::::::::===== publicity and advertising, the· committee will rely on the expertise of Darlene Ward, the Director of the College News Bureau. The two students on the committee will serve the im- portant function of providing needed student input into the committee~ Vice President of Finance for the Student Forum, Ben Heckscher was appointed specifically for his aqvice on financial issues, and sophomore Lisa Freed for her involvement with campus activities and her. ability to provide a continuity of service to the committee over the next three Years, The seven member advisory committee was formed to aid At the meeting on January 26, WRUC General·Manager Scott VVykoff conlinented that rock music comprises ap- proximately eighty-five percent of the programming. Possible future programming ideas include interviews, political analysis, in-depth sports features and special hours · featuring different types of music. Massa concluded by saying that .he was \extremely en- couraged by the new WRUC Executive Board and its en- thusiasm in allowing the / Advisory Committee to work with them in this joint en- deavor.\ Student Forum Voting Record for January 30 Meeting Midoneck Member BLAS Money Proposal J. Squires' Yes No B. Heckscher Yes Abstain S. Midoneck Yes Yes M. Viglielmo Yes Yes M. Nankin Yes Abstain J. Parsons No No B. Rog.ers Yes No S. Brand ·Yes Abstain B. L-aux Yes Abstain J. Simon Abstain Yes <f. E. Colsman No No A. George Yes No C. Siler Yes No S. Moss Yes Yes S. White Yes Abstain J. D9nziger--Nor present at this meeting J. Bogan-- Not prese(lt at this meeting

('ONCORI>IEN5iiS. Fe/Jr11u1:r 2. /'984 Page3 A rocky future • • • Geology Major. Studied By GAYLE l:{OSENFELD News Editor Currently, the Academic Affairs Council {AAC) is examining· the possibility of once again offering a geology rnajor here at Union. In about 1969, Union phased out this major and formally dropped it in 1973 for various reasons. However, upon urgings on the part of Professor Francis Griggs, chairperson of the civil engineering department, the AAC has once again looked into the possibility. drawn possibly from Colgate, Williams, Skidmore or RPI. AU these colleges have geolQgy departments. they will \serve as sources of information to see if it's {the program:) feasible,\ said Seiken. Afterward, these consultants will undoubtedly submit written evaluations on Union's capacity for the major. having possibilities. However, that is \if it's approved at all,\ added Griggs. Without faculty and student interest, the program has a dim future. Seikea added that the program's future \aU depends on what he (D'Andrea) hears from\ the proposed outside consultants. Their comments will be taken under much consideration. Also, Seiken noted that any information regarding this matter woUld be greatly appreciated. Seiken can be contacted in the math department. The proposal f.or a Geology major by Professor Griggs is now being considered by the AAC. >- ~ .<II ..... 0 1... tO co c Ill .s::. ... Ill c 0 ...., >- .0 0 - 0 .c. a. In 1980, Griggs and Zim- merman sent a written proposition to the then Dean of Faculty Paula Browning in regards to reinstating the geology major .. Their idea was to \bring at least one more full time faculty'' member into the department, said Griggs. Zimmerman believed that with this additional bj_structm;, a S\Jlid geology major could be offered. Unfortunately, this proposal was ·not acted upon. However, last spring, the AAC \took up the idea of a geology major,\ said Griggs, because of its concqrring interest in an anthropology major as well. At present, Zimmerman is away for the year at the National Science foundation in Washington, D .. C. He is working in regards to various deep sea dri.lling. operations. His tern~ potary replacement, Professor Mark Dobday, said that \Zimmerman would still like to see one more professor so it (AAC) could offer a major.\ Professor Donald Stone of the civil engineering department is, in essence, retired and only teacheS one course per term. However, Griggs . said, Video P·ub Envisioned, Three weeks ago, Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea selected Professor Arnold Seiken of the math department to chair a committee to look into the matter. Cemmented Seiken, .· \I'm essentially the con:imittee. Just someone to coordinate these various activities.\ The committee has yet to be fermed, however. \At present we're looking at · the best way to proceed,\ noted Siken. Seilt'en's suggestion was to bring in a consultant in the field to discuss the major's feasibility. He would like to actually round up two outside consultants from colleges like Union \that have geology programs and to have them look at the facilities here and speak to faculty members.\ These information sources may be . D'Andrea' 'has kind of ruled out just bringing one mor:e person\ in toteach .geology. He believes that two professors .could not provide an adequate enough major: for Union. In the original aforemen- tioned proposal, Griggs and Zimmerman believed that at a \rock bottom_ minimum, we could make a program with two\ professors. The draft included a tentative curriculum, manpower necessary, lab space required, and library material needed. According to Dobday and Griggs, Union's former geology professors left the College with most of the materials required for a modern geology laboratory. The resources are there. Five geology courses are taught at .Union now. With a major, this number would be expanded. However, Griggs seems less than optimistic about the program's chances. D'Andrea \hasn't contacted us yet\ on the matter. In regards to time, Griggs \didn't think it would happen for next year.\ At best, he saw the fall of 1985 as •. :By JAN BARAN Associate News Editor The lack of entertainment on the Union campus encouraged Gary Salerno, the manager of the Dutch Hollow Pub, to propose a change to alleviate this problem. This proposal was then brought to the Student Forum by Senior Larry Shapiro. With the winter term and nwnerous promotions by off-campus bars, many students are leaving campus to have fun on the weekends. This suggestion was proposed with the idea of bringing the Union students back to campus by creating an on•campus activity which the students could enjoy. The proposal, which is in the planning stages, consists of a plan to purchase video equip- ment, including a video cassette recorder (VCR), a ten-foot screen, and other pieces of equipment. 'This apparatus could allow showing of music videos, VCR movies, and regular television program- ming. Because of the pub's distance from cable lines, the proposed equipment could not · show programs from the cable network. Possible uses of this video equipment that have been aired Forum Election Results JANUARY 27, 1984 I • Freshmen winners: Steven Moss Sam White 141 123 Total nurnber freshmen voting: 275 (each freshman. could vote for 2 candidate$) Senior Winner: Matt Nankin--89 votes Total number seniors v~ting: 114 ~\~\e~'l ~~\\~· ~ Come on in and relax to the sounds of Mid-Term Dentes . P SIOIJ COLBY SNO REVIEW Feb. 9th, at the Rat 10-2 a.m. 'Rathsk~llar by both Shapiro and Salerno include showing prime-time television programs during meal~, taping soap operas and then displaying them during the off-hours, showing music videos in the late evenings, and showing VCR movies throughout the week. Salerno comrnimted that the purchase of this .equipment would be an extensive ir >- ~ \' .... 0 1... tO Ill favor of the proposal although a full vote still needs to be taken and many details are still unresolved. This •equipment could bring many possible benefits to the pub. First, the pub would be providing a greater service to Union students. Possibly more students would patronize the pub instead of going to off- campus bars. Salerno added that this would also help to lessen the numbers of students driving while intoxicated. In addition, under-age and other students would be able to use the pub in an activity not cen- c tered upon the drinking of :E alcohol. Salerno commented ~ that the pub does not want to ~ promote the over-indulgence of >- alcohol but instead provide a ~ campus activity which allows o students to enjoy themselves a without focusing on alcohol Manager of the Dutch Hollow Pub, Gary S~lerno vestment. It is hoped that funding would come from the various committees who have offered their vocal support and the main sponsor, the Dutch Hollow Pub. Dave Ross, the co- chairman of the concert committee, indicated that his organization .was generally in consumption. At this point, the proposal for video equipment for the pub is solely in the planning stage. The social committee, the concert committee, the Dutch Hollow Pub, and the Student Forum still need to convene in order to establish the funding and the schedule. The Pub, however, will still have the deciding vote on the issues examined. Rumors Heard By DOUG LANGHOLZ Staff Rumors have been heard on campus that the prices of school rings here at Union are seventy dollars more when purchased individually than if they are ordered directly from the manufacturer. The truth on this matter is quite different. The price in- consistency, which generally runs about fifteen dollars, is actually an incentive offered by the ring manufacturer, Art- carv. This incentive is given on ''ring day\ when ArtCarv visits Union to sell its merchandise. In the past, school rings . remained one price for one half of the year at a time. Now prices will fluctuate along with the price of gold. According to Holley Greene, manager of Union's bookstore, the College is attempting to alter ArtCarv's incentive policy. As a representative of · this company,.. Union is at- tempting to get ArtCarv to offer this incentive at all times in- stead of just on \ring day.\ Greene believes that although ArtCarv is the largest ring manufacturer in the country, it will be obligated to agree to Union's -proposal. This is primarily because Union is an old and vital customer to this organization. In addition to this fifteen dollar difference, ArtCarv has raised its prices on all style rings by thirty dollars. This price increase occurred last August. The inflated price has been chalked up to an increase in manufacturing costs. For all prospective ring buyers, notice should be taken on a new price policy. In the past, school rings remained one price for one-half of the year at a time. Now prices will fluc- tuate along with the price of gold. For all non-economic enthusiasts, this means that if a student purchases a ring and then the price of gold falls, the overall ring price will depreciate. One interesting note is that ArtCarv wishes to make Union's ring \standard\ in style as opposed to the \traditional\ style now used. Most schools utilize this non- descript \standard\ style which deviates from other rings only in regards to the college's name inscribed on the ring. Harvard and Union are two of the colleges which still use the more expensive and distinguished looking \stan- dard\ .~tyle.

I . t I, Page .J CONCORDJf.\NSJfj: February 2, 1984 CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS---------- Non-credit Courses Offered Non-credit courses to develop business skills, develop cultural interests or just to have fun are offered beginning at the end of January and early February at Union through the Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies. Courses of cultural interest include ballet, creative writing, American furniture, sight- singing, Japanese and Swedish. A one-day course in \Imaginative Activities for Preschoolers\ will provide activities for working creatively with young children. Cultu1·al excursions are planned to historic sites in Philadelphia and Wilmington and to a production of \Night Mother\ in New. York City. An audience guide also is offered to two shows at Proctor's Theater, \Joseph and His Technicolor Dream Coat\ opening Jan. 27 and to \Annie Get Your GWl\ opening March 16. To develop business and professional skills, courses in performance, appraisal, motivation, marketing, business writing skills, delegation, conducting effective meetings, word processing, BASIC, investments and enhancUng your hnage are o~ fered. A ccourse in passive solar design begins Feb. 15, and a one-day workshop In teaching creative writing is offered April 28. Daytime courses for persons of retirement age include \Traveling in .. the New World with an Ecologist\ and \The Art of Listening to Music.\ Programs for young people are offered in the areas of television production, creative writing, dramatics, ballet, French, computer science, and im- proving study skills. A lecture series on the en- vironment begins Feb. 1, focusing on such topics as toxic waste, managing future water resources, environmental protection measures in New York City, and natura'l resources of New York State. To register or obtain ·further information, contact the Office of Graduate and Cantinuing Studies, Wells House, Union College, 370-1>288. Environmental Colloquium Being Held A six-week course on \Environmental Issues of the 1980s\ will be held at Union and began Feb. 1. Classes meet Wednesday evenings from 7:30 to 9 p.m. in Humanities Building Room 115. · Program coordinator is Don Rittner, founder and president of the American Pine Garren Society, Inc., and author of Pine Bush - Albany's Last Frontier. The Feb. 1 class will feature Ann Dizatd, director of the Office of Regulatory Review for the Department .of Environ· mental Protection for New York City, in a discussion of ''Protecting the Environment of Our Largest City.\ Peter Buttner, director of management for the State Department of Parks and Recreation, will discuss \Natural Resources of New York State'~in a lecture Feb. 8 .. Anne Rabe, legislative assistant to Richard N. Gott- fried, will discuss \The Growing Toxic Waste Problem\ Feb. 15. Ella Fillippone, executive administrator of New Jersey's Passaic River Coalition, will, with Buttner, cover \Managing Our Future Water Resources\ Feb. 22. The Feb. 29 class will feature a panel discussion titled \Protecting the Environment: A Municipal Perspective\ by Albany Mayor Thoma~ Whalen, Guilderland Town Supervisor Kevin Moss, Colonie Town Supervisor Frederick Field and Schenectady Mayor Karen Johnson. The March 7 topic will be selected by the class. To register or obtain further information, ,contact the llifice of Graduate and eontinuing Studies at Union, 37()..6288. Sterling Professor ()j Hi\·tory to Yi\'it Ja.roslav Pelik.~n. Sterling Professor of History at Yale University, will be at Union for the spring term. He is an expert in medieval and Renaissance history and literature and has written nwnerous studies of the Christian tradition, of Early Church Fathers and of the Christian intellectual. He is a leading authority on the Reformation, and his reflec- tions on Luther's continuing relevance have appeared as the cover article in The New York Times Magazine Sept. 18, in commemoration of the 50oth anniversary of Luther's birth. Pelikan also is the author of a screenplay for a feature movie on Luther. The National Endowment for the Humanities awarded Pelika.ri the 1983 Jefferson Award, its highest honor, as the distinguished American scbolar that year. As Jefferson scholar, Pelikan lectured around the country on the importance of tradition. He was recently profiled by The New Yorker and interviewed by Studs Terkel for National Public Radio. Pelikan will deliver primary lectures in ''English 52: · Literature of the Middle Ages'' in the sprin$ term with Prof. Anne Higgins. He will offer guest lectures in classes on \Shakespeare after 1600,\ \Literature of the .Renaissance\ and \Milton.\ Through the Lamont Professorship, the English Department seeks to encourage students and faculty to enjoy ready access to established scholar-teachers invited to give lectures and participate in classes, workshops, and in· formal conversations. Among Union is now in the initial stages of atter:npting to set up a Term Abroad in Japan. If all goes well, it would begin either in the Fall of 1984 or 1985. The program would consist of the following rna ror com- ponents: 1. A fifteen-week term from September 1 to December 15 at Kansai University of Foreign Studies near Osaka. 2. Living with a Japanese family throughout the term. - 3, A course in beginning . Japanese. (Meets five 50-minute hours/week) 4. Two courses related to East Asia taught in English by Kansai professors. (Each meets two 80-minute hours/week) 5. One course related to East Asi,a taught by the accompanying Union professor. (Meets two 80 minute hours per week) 6. Field trips. · Students would receive letter grades and three Union credits for the term. It is envisioned that the cost, excluding the airfare, would be comparable to that of tuition, room, and board at Union. If you are interested in studying in Japan either this fall or in the fall of 1985, and would like a br'ochure that gives complete information about the program at Kansai Gaidai, please contact Professor Donald Thurston of the History Department, in SS213. -4 DUT~u~~~~~~ PUB Kitchen Saturday Breakfast ...... 7:30 a.m.·ll: 00 a.m.. Dutchman's Night· Reservations only Lunch . . . . . . . . 11:30 a.m .-1:30 p.m. Seatings 5 p.m., 6 p.m •• 7 p.m. Dinner . . . . . . . . 5:00 p.m.-7:00p.m. Bar Monday and Wednesday .... 4:30-7':00 Tuesda-y. . . . . . . ............ 4: 30·? Thursday •................ ~. 4:30-? Friday ..................... 4:30·? Saturday .................•. 9: 00·? Beginning tonight--the return of the . Thursday Night D.J.! notable scholars who have expressed an interest in future appointments to the Thomas Lamont Visiting Professorship. are Robert · Alter, Sacvan Ber!tovitch, Leo Braudy, John Irwin, Harry Levin, Leo Marx, Charles Tomlinson, Helen Vendler and Edmund White. Young People Courses A vailab/e Courses for young people ranging from writing to com· puters are offered at Union thvough the Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies. Courses generally begin irl late January and meet for four to 10 weeks in the late afternoon or on Saturdays. Subjects covered include studio television production, creative writing, creative dramatics, ballet, French and improving study skills. Com- . puter-related courses include \Computing for Youngsters'' (first and second courses available), LOGO, and BASIC and the Microcomputer (I and II). To register or obtain further · information, contact the Office of Graduate and Continuing Stuidies, Wells HoUse, Union, 37(1..6288; Director of Grants Programs Named Patricia Rush of Sc;:henectady has been named director of grants programs at Union. A graduate of St. Louis' University where she received: B.S. and M.A. degrees, Rush was awarded a Ph.D. from Washington University in 1972. She has worked as a grants consultant for the New York State Department of Soda.l Services, as grants developer for the New York State Office for the Aging, and as grants coordinator· and education director for The Foundation for Long Term Care. Rush has also served as Title IX coordinator for the Corning~Painted Post Area School District, and has taught English, education and Women's Studies at Cornell University, Elmira College, ancl Loyola University. She resides in Schenectady with her husband and children. SIGN THE. ,, Petition The TAP Parity Bi II Monday February& IFC/PHC Sponsors SWIM-A- THON The Super Swim Classic for Leukemia will be held at the Union College Pool on Sunday, February 26th, between the hours of 12 noon and 8 p.m. Anyone may parficipate by requesting pledge donations per lap from friends and relatives. Prizes will' be awarded on the basis of pledges collected. A grand prize of a portable color T.V.- will be presented to the top money raiser and a keg of beer will be given to the fraternity or sorority that brings in the most money. Other prizes include a checkbook calculator ·for those who raise $50 or more and a T·shirt for anyone· who raises over $25. Union College students are urged to par- ticipate in this event. It is not a race or test of swimming ability. The idea rs to complete as many laps as possible to raise money to fight leukemia. · Proceeds from the Swim will benefi.t the Leukemia Society of America. This non-profit organization depends upon voluntary con- tributions to fund leukemia research, assist leukemia patients and their families and to educate medical professionals, as well as the general public. Those. interested may pre-register by picking up sponsor sheets in the Alumni Gym. For fur- ther information, call the Leukemia Society at 438-3583 ..

• • .. CONCORDIENSIS, Fehrmu:r 2. /984 PageS FEATUREs· Extremely Dry Humor By TED KENDRIS Staff · . I never .suspected a thing at hrst.. When I moved into Davidson Hall last fall I thought, • 'Hey, this place is all right. I'll lmy some plants and I'll be all set.\ I had no idea there was anything going on. ~t all happened so slowly, so qrnetly. In fact, I never would have noticed a thing were it not for my highly acute senses. Still, I was helpless. 'There were the subtle signs at first, which I merely shrugged off'-dryrtess, sleepiness, thirst, dust on my stereo, occasional --- FINANCIAl- -AID- -FORMS- are now available in Becker .Hall Demdline: March 1 st \ Graduate Studies in Biomedical Research. Basic Medical Science Dep a.r tme nf, Active Research Programs, Seeking Qualified Applicants Juition and Stipend. Support Available For Further ln- form,afi()n Contact: Gnlduate Conunittu Dtpor1Ment of Physiology Alhnr Medical College Albany, N.Y. 12208 (51 1-445-5651) ' 2nd Floor West lUCK-IN S·ERVICE Feb.12-14 10:30 p.m.- 12 :00 a.m. Watch for details swelling of the tongue. Not one af us noticed the connection. I certainly didn't--until that fateful weekend! By some· bizarre twist of fate, all three of my roommates: were away for the weekend. Saturday evening, after having .spent the entire day asleep, I decided to go to bed early. I filled the vaporizer,. threw out the latest dead plant by the wlndow, looked out the window at the sky, closed my eyes, and went to sleep. As I fell asleep the usual thoughts en- tered my rn~nd: \Gee this room is dry . . . If I don't fall asleep in a few minuteS' I m~y have to get up and. go for water . . . Where the heck are my leather gloves?\' Sunday morning I awoke; still thinking about my last dream. I had been in the middle of a vast, completely barren desert. Nothing hut .sarid as far as I cou.Id see. In mY hands I held my canteen,. from which I had just poured the last drop. I collapsed on the sand and closed my eyes. What a terrible dream, I slowly opened my eyes. The ,Humor~- brightness made me close them again quickly before I could gather the courage to reopen them. Before me, through half· closed eyes,. I could see it. Now it all made sense-my room had been transforemed into a desert. Some awesome power had changed everything Into sand and had left me there for some unknown reason. I lay there for a moment and listened for signs of life. In the distance I coUld hear what I assumed to b~ natives, banging on their drums in preparation for some ritual. I could not make out what they were saying. But I did sense the anger. The banging became louder. I could almost understand what the leader was saying. As I became more alert I felt the full effect of my disorientation. The voice of the tribal leader became more clear with each word as my eyes struggled open. He cried: \Wha ... er ... OQ ... why ... ont ... you ... ef. . . up . . . and open this door. WAKE UP!\ Wham!, I shot bolt upright and looked out the window. Another six inches of sn~w on the ground. Todd Schwebel, killer on the rampage, in hot pursuit of his victim. Violence On Campus: The Killing Continues By MAUREEN COLEMAN Staff · \It was gorgeous. Sleek and small, but accurate to 15 feet. Well-balanced even when partly empty, and easy to refill. It was the perfect assassin's weapon, and I knew we were meant for each other. With the new Hydro-Blaster comfortably settled in my trenchcoatpocket, I slid. into the shadows ·Of the Rathskellar. Slipping from pillar to pillar, I made my way to the corner table and ordered a pitcher of Bud. The vantage point was perfect-;my back was protected from any would-be killers, and I could see the entrance without being con- spicuous. My target came in half an hour later. She was protected by a well-armed and well· developed bodyguard who held . her in constant contact. Only after another hour and three more pitchers of Bud did she move away. Instantly I saw my opportunity. With the quick reflexes born of years of training, I whipped off my dark glasses and eased my weapon out. Holding the trigger lightly, I walked over and introduced myself-\My name is Blonde, Dames Blonde\- and shot her in the chest as she reached to shake my hand. It was quick Correction In last week's edition of Concordiensis: there was a misquote in tne \Issue of the Issue\ article. It should be noted that it was Andy Resnick of ZBT fraternity who made the statement which· was at· tributed to Larry Shapiro. and merciful; she didn't even have time to drop her jaw in surprise. Stepping over the water-riddled body, I went out into· the night to stalk my next victim.\-David Lewis David·· is ordinarily just another barmless freshman. What could possibly transform a mild-manneredni~eteen year· old into a ruthless killer. I knew something was wrong when I heard the gi·rls screaming outside my door. I looked out into the hall and heard, \Pam will you hold my hand? I have to go to the bathroom.\ The girls were clinging together as they moved down the hall. What the hell was wrong with my floor? The answer: Killer had struck Union. The game of killer requires a weapon (a squirt gun, dart gun, rubber band etc.), a victim, and nerves of steel. Each player is assigned a victim who he may \kill\ with whatever weapon he chooses. After the slaughter, the assassin acquires his vic- tim's quarry. The killer's object is to exterminate as many players as possil:)le without being eliminated himself. A player may not be killed if he is in his room, in class or touching any other person. Also, a victim may kill hiS designated killer. TRADING PLACES;..;;Friday thru St.mday, Feb.- 3-5 at 7, 9, 11 in SS016. Admission is $1. WANDA WHIPS WALL SffiEET (X)-Tuesday Feb. 7 at 7, 8:30, 19, 11:30 in SS016. Admission is $1. TJ:e last ,Player alive is the wmner. Who has organized this carnage? Not a homicidal maniac: God. If conflicts arise during the game, players simply call ·God, and he straightens everything out. God is naturally a very busy man. He was asleep when I called him, but between yawns, He explained the game. Killer is patterned after a game played at camps, high schools and college campuses all over the country. Each killer paid 25 cents to enter the game-and the winner will collect $22. (Some of the players have hinted that God probably does O.K. too.) At this point there are less than 100 left in the game. (God wasn't sure of the exact number.) The killers who go very quietly about their daily routine seem to be the most successful, God said. All this killing is bound to have some effects. Now there really are a lot of \cutthroats\ at Union. One door in Davidson is covered with sympathetic notes from . a dead victim's floormates. Apparently there are those who are opposed to the game. Killer is unquestionably noisy (could this be the reason for R.A. SWAT?) and it promotes mass paranoia. Dave Wood said he has had \no complajpts from studepts.\ However, \The ad~ ministration is wary · of the killer game.\ Last year at a ~ollege on the west coast an anned security guard spotted a ''killer\ holding a realistic looking toy machine gun. Believing a student's life was in. danger, he shot and killed the student with the toy gun. The administration views the 'killer game with \apprehension and \most of the administration does not sanction\ killer although there is \no clear ·consensus as to what to do about it.\ Killer has been met with mixed reactions. When asked \What do you think of killer?\- the responses were as follows: -\It was great until I was betrayed by my friend and roommate and ruthlessly killed in the .Skellar\ . . . Larry Kaminsky ~\I thought it was a scream watching these people walk around paranoid\ . . . Amy Kaufman ~\First it was a lot of fun but now no one seems to care anymore\ . . . Debbie GoUin -\It's a nice idea but the enthusiasm died off after a few d . ,., An ays. · . . . · onymous -\It was devised to make winterterm more fun but it was too childish. It was below college level. It just gets boring too quickly. Now if we could use nunchucks.\ . Todd Lawrence -\I think it's great. It gives me a ,wild extra week of sex in Ft. Lauderdale.\ . . . J as o 1 Oshins -\I wish I could have played it\ ... Dave Marin -\It's fun if it doesn't get out of hand\ . . . Anonymous -\Great album, but I liked the video better\ Anonymous -\I'm still alive! The thrill of the hunt and constant paranoia keep me going.\ . . . Steve Lipsky -''Freshman ·girls look absol~tely ridiculous walking around holding hands.\ . . . Anonymous -\I think arsenals should be restricted to high powered rifles, Walther PPK handguns and throwing knives developed only from the Sykes·Fairbairn commando dagger.'' . . . Anonymous ~\It helps students release tension. I've killed three people already, and I've had a great time doing it.\ ... Richard Lev ~\The game suggests violence and through it students demonstrate deviant behavior.\ ... Christine Corso -\I met my first husband playing killer.\ ... Anonymous -\It drags out. I killed four people and there's still tons of others left running around.\ ... Ira Suckman -\No one is killing anyone anymore.\ . . . Pam Shapps -'·'It's fun. The first week was wild. 'f!lere's a thrill about it. You get to walk around with a gUI1, always on the alert. It sharpens your senses . . . Everybody has the killer in- stinct.\ . . . Howie Podolsky -\Maureen you've become brain damaged.'' . . . Barry Cohen >- .:.! Vl t: '§ t1l ::.:: >- ..... ..... ro ...J >- .0 0 - 0 J:: a.

j ' - Cii .0 0. E ro u E ...., >- .0 E 0 .c 0. Page6 l'ONCOI(DJENSI.\~ Februor.r 2, 1984 FEATURES On the Career Fr.ont- A Plum Island Summer Prot. Martha Huggins, one of the faculty-advisors to the Union College Undergraduate Review By DIANNE PA VACIC Jean Bruch, a senior biology major had a very unique job last summer. She was a lab assistant at the Plum Island Animal Disease Center (PIADC). Some .of you may be won- dering what and where is this PIADC. The PIADC is a United States government ''high containment\ facility one m.lle off the. coast of Orient Point, Long Island. The Center is concerned with finding cures and vaccines to livestock diseases primarily in cattle and swine. At the current time the Center is focusing on three diseases: ''African swine fever,\ \Blue tongue~' in eattle, and \Foot and Mouth\ disease, also in cattle. The Plum Island Center is the onlyoneofits kind in the United States. It is the only facility in the country all()wed to work on these particular diseases. .:Jean states that, \The .people in Greenport think of Plum Island as enveloped in some shroud.of :mystery. But, the only reason it is a high cont~inment facility is because the animals on Long Island would be devastated if e:l(posed to the diseases that are in the l~bs of the Center.\ She points out that, ''The only other facility like PIADC is the Center for Disease Control in The Fate of the Review Atlanta, Georgia, where they work on human diseases.\ There are two labs on Plum lf!birtd: one that attempts to make a vaccine and one that produces the vaccine and tests it. The Union College ,Undergraduate Review (UCUR) was founded at Union College last year in order to bring the highest quality research in the Humanities and the Social' Sciences by students (both at Union and at other colleges) to the attention of the academic communities of Union College and the other participating colleges. Faculty members nominate what they consider to be the best student papers they .. have received in . the Humanities and the Social Sciences, and these papers are then considered for publication in the UCUR by its Editorial Board, which consists of student editors and faculty advisors. The Editorial Board this year consists of two of the original three founding student editors, Winthrop Thurlow and Jeffrey Van Detta, and the returning faculty advisors, Professors Martha Huggins (Sociology) and Thomas Warger (Modern Languages). College, produced great en· thusiasm for the project both within the Union College community and at the other participating colleges. This has resulted in further funding .for the UCUR this year both by the Internal Education Foundation and the Union College Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. The editors of the UCUR are currently taking nominations of student papers from the faculty for the 1984 issue of the UCUR; a deadline of February 13 has been set for the receipt of nominations of student papers. The editors are planning to distribute the 1984 issue of the UCUR to the campus com- munity and to other colleges in early May. The UCUR was founded in order to benefit the college community in several ways. The UCUR provides a forum for the recognition of outstanding research in the Humanities and the Social Sciences · by un- dergraduates, thereby providing an incentive for the general improvement of writing and research skills among Union College students. The UCUR also is a means for the exchange .of ideas and the promotion of intellectual un- dertakings, within the Union College community and among other colleges. The UCUR is not only eagerly seeking facuity nominations of the most outstanding student papers in. the Humanities and the Social Sciences, but also candidates for consideration as student editors to serve in the 1984-85 school year. A.candidate for a student editorship must possess outstanding writjng abilities, great motivation, ability to work closely with both faculty and students, and un- tiring dedication to the · realization of the aims of the UCUR. Any students interested in being considered for a student eaitorship should contact the UCUR at Box 2551, Union College. Jean worked in the lab that did the research and she . ex- clusively worked on the \Foot and Mouth\ disease in cattle. She notes, · \The 'Foot and Mouth' disease causes an in- fection that causes cows to starve themselves thus ruining their meat.lf a vaccine could be found, mor~ and better meat could be p1·oduced.\ . Each morning Jean would leave her Southold horne, ride her bike to Orient Point, wheFe a ferry would be waiting to take Plum Island employees to the facility~ Each person would have to show their I.D. card before boarding. Thj,rty ll)inutes later, they would arrive at- the Center where buses would be waiting to take them to their respective sites. The first issue of. the UCUR, published last April with fun- ding provided by the Internal Education Foundation of Union Upon entering the lab, Jean would have to flash her I.D. card again, ha-nd over everything she had brought with her (including her lunch)· except for her purse. She would ---------------------------~ then proceed to the locker room · Facts On Infectious mononucleosis, commonly called \mono\ is a generally benignb self-limited viral illness which produces characteristic changes in the mononuclear cells of the blood. Severity of this illness varies from very mild to moderately severe. The symptoms of mono in· elude: fever, sore throat, cervical adenopathy (swollen glands) and. fatigue. One or more of these symptoms may ._,..)r..---MO .. ,.... \'--\\\ by Alan Ayckbourn January 28~ February 19 Comic intrigues about')d in the English countryside. Corporate sponsor: Sterling-Winthrop Research Institute/ Sterling Drug Inc. Performances: Tuesday~Saturday 8:.00pm; Sunday 2:30pm and Wednesday, Feb. 1, 2:30 pm Non Student Tickets $8•$13 Students with i.D. Y2 price Tuesday-Thursday evenings, and Sunday Matinee. Limited availability 30 minutes before curtain. 111 North Pearl Street, Albanx. New York 518-462-4534 lickets available at The Market Theatre and Community Box Offices. MasterCard and VISA accepted. (No refunds or exchahges.) Mono and change into her white lab clothes. The Center supplied all her clothes-pants, shirts, undergannents and white Pro· be absent. However; sore throat Ked sneakers all personalized 1 d 11 with big bright red letters. with swollen g an s are usua Y Once dressed, Jean would present. Mono is believed to be caused start her lab work. She worked by the Epstein-Barr virus, with. ~ biqche:£?ist, a (EBV). It occurs among young yet~rmarm~, a b10l!>g1st, and an adults, especially in the 15- to , ~unolog1st. This gro?,p . of 25-year age group. · ftve was k~?~ as the Foot Epidemiologic and laboratory and Mouth research team. evidence has suggested that ~.....o.---------------­ transntission of EBV occurs through the oral route during close personal contact. Investigations have indicated that mono has a low con- tagiousness. It does not occur in epidemics and it rarely occurs anwng roommates or within family units. Because it is spread through the oral route, it is advisable to separate dishes and eating utensils for the duration of the illness. Laboratory blood tests eonfirm the diagnosis of mononucleosis. However, blood serum tests tnay not become positive until two to three weeks· after the onset of Sy:tnptoms. Therefore, tests drawn too. early in the course of the disease may give false negative results. If you_ believe that you may . have .mononucleosis, visit the Health Service. The Union College Gaming Association is sponsoring a~, . AD & D Tournament .February 17 & 18 Call6944 For more information· Jean performed many ·biological tests including: radio immuno assays, monoclonal antibody titratration, DNA sequencing and protein sequencing. Within the lab there were animal rooms that might hold four or five contaminated cows. These rooms were totally self- contained With double airlock . doors.· Whenever . Jean would have to give an animal an in- jection, which was fairly often, she would have to remove her clothes, go through an outer · door, tllrough an inner door~ put on a speCial pair of overalls and perform her work. To leave the animal ·room, Jean had to remo:veberoveralls, gothrough the inner door, take a hot shower, go through the outer door and put back on her lab clothes. She laughs, \I had a really good time but by the end of the summer my skin was wrinkled and shriveled!'' When the clock struck 4:30, all the workers in white would rttn to the locker rooms, remove their lab clothes, take another hot shower which included shampooing, blowing their noses, and scrubbing under their fingernails. Jean notes, ''Everything that was taken into the lab in the morning must be sterilized if it is to leave in the afternoon. This meant that all papers would. have to be autoclaved, equip- ment steriliZed, and eye. glasses dipped in an acid solution. I would never bring my watch into the lab because it would be ruined after steam sterilization. The rules were strictly en- forced.\ Jean also pointed out that .tf · you ever had to leave the lab to goto another building she would have to take a shower when she left and would have to take another when she returned. The PIADC is classified as a \P-3\ containment facility where \P-4\ is the highest. In addition to all its employee rules and regulations, the PIADC has negative air pressure in the labs; the air flow is recycled-it never. comes in contact with the outside. ·· Prior to becoming a lab facil'ity I Plum Island was inhabited by residents and was then taken over by the govern- ment after World War II for military use. Last summer, the PIADC employed five students-three area high school students, a senior veterinarian student, and Jean. Everyone that works there full-time Js thoroughly investigated by: the FBI for several months before they are granted a full ''.security clearance.\ \I didn't have a full security dearance and had to be escorted everywhere!\ Jean's recorn.mendation for anyone interested in · doing biological research as their c~re'er is to \Get a lab job as soon as you can-you don't realize how little lab experience you've had from your courses at Union. There are so many different research areas and you have to keep exploring untll you find the area that you are best suited.'' Jean Bruch is currently working on her thesis. She is studying the immunological respons:es ·of mice to · hypanosonal infection (an extracellular blood parasite). She will be attending Harvard Dental Schoolnext fall and wold like to pursue dental research in immunology, her primary area ol interest.

.. CONCORDJENSIS. February l, 1984 Page7 THE ARTS The Gift Joseph's . Coat Shines by . .Jim Campbell A, friend, by chance, stole offone evening, that was cold and wet, to get himself,.if he knew where, • somethingtoreplacethe something he-lost. He came to me, I was very tired, and said, in a tone that was .both low and searing that he was in need, of something, a thing, he thought I might have. Puzzled, but anxious, I thought out loud, in a voice so loud, about what I might do, for my friend in need,. so confused and dear. His raincoat dripped, the droplets fell, so far and hard onto the floor, that was mine, but my friend's, too, I offered him. I looked at him, ~eat me, but not at the drops falling on the floor, far down, theyfell, andthen, I knew what it was. The something he had need for, I had some of that, And with an eye shot open and another, hand pressed close to mine. I reached b!ickand brought forth, to him, what was mine,. He took it, snliled, . looked at the drops,. and stopped. Later, whenhewasca]Jn, . I had occasion, if only just a little, To give my something to him, that he had.no more of. By ARTSSTAFF This past weekend at Proc- tor's was a night of pure en .. tertainment. The Broadway ltit musical \Joseph . and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat'' was a Sell out both Friday and .Saturday nights. The musical was written by Andrew Uoyd Webber and Tim Rice, who are also known for ti:Ieir work in the exceptional shows \Evita'' and ''Jesus Christ Superstar.\ The play is based upon the biblical story of Joseph, his father, and his twelve brothers. The basic plot covers the times from when Joseph's father Jacob gave him a coat of many colors, and his brothers began to truly despise him. Joseph's brothers then sell him to the Ishmaelites, who bring him to Egypt and sell him as a slave to a millionaire. rn time due to some of his actions Joseph is sent to prison, but is released when he interprets the famous dream of the pharoah and then he becomes a hero in Egypt. He also comes into contact with his brothers and they become a family again. Don Goodspeed is the young talented man who is playing Joseph in the traveling com- pany. Members of the cast say, \Working with Don is like working .with a star who doesn't know he's a star yet.\ The narrator of the musical, Robin Boudreau, also performed very well, and is so happy to be a part of the \Joseph\ cast. Along with the· enjoyable acting and singing, the costumes and sets ''Th9 Only REAL Vid8otech'' . . ••••••••••••••••• : lfA\~lr A\S lilt~·: •..••.. , ••••..•••••• . In coniune1ion with - Union College Soci~l CommiHee PRESENTS A VALENTINES PARTY -· FREE BUSES -· Buses leave Carnegie at 9:00p.m. & 9:45p.m. buses leave Fantasies at 12:30a.m. & 1 :30a.m. -·50¢ DRAFTS & 75¢VALENTI NES SCR~EWDR IVERS- -. FREE DRINK WITH INVITATION ~DOOR PR-IZES AND UN.ION ON VIDEO . . $3.00 admission Feb. 7th • 9:00-close Rte. 155 so~th of State St. were extraordinary. The sets ranged from camels, to pyramids to an ancient Egyptian condominium. The musical overall was extremely enjoyable, and the - crowd was very receptive to the performers. It was ni~e to see a ·sellout at Proctor's and hopefully the success will continue. Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat, starring Don Goodspeed as Joseph Co~n:munity Arts Calendar' Theatre February 1-5, 7-12, 14-19: Living Together, Market Theatre, . Albany. Tues & thurs-Sat 8 p.m.; Wed 2:30 & 8 p.m.; Sun 2:30p.m . 462-4534. . February 3 & 4: The Odd Couple, Hudson Valley COmmunity College, Ttoy 8:00p.m. 767-3464 February 3-St Rumplestilskin, Rensselae~ County Junior Museum, Troy. 1-5 p.m. 235-2120. February 2, 3, 5, 6, 8-11: The Crucible, The Egg, Empire State Plaza, Albany 473-3750 February 8: \Master Harold\ and the Boys, Proctor's Theatre, Schenectady 8 p.m. 382-1083 February 8: Women In Love, Siena College, 8 p.m. FREE 783- 2527 - February 3: Alex Degrassi Concert, Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, Troy 8 p.m. 273-0038. February 4: Schenectady Symphony Orchestra, Proctor's Theatre,.SchenectadyBp.m. 37(}-()()47 · February 5: Cannina BuranaJ SUNYA University, Albany FREE 457-8606 February 7: Findlay Cockrell's Noon Concert, The Egg, Empire State Plaza, Albany 12:05 p.m. FREE473-3750 February 7: Ruth Laredo Mastee Class, The Egg, Empire State Plaza; Albany 473-3750 · February 9: Findlay Cockrell, SUNY A Performing Arts Center, Albany, noon F'REE 457-8606 February 10: Borodin Piano Trio, Union College Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m. 382-7890 Febmary 1 & ~: Tess, Rensselaer, 7:30p.m. 436-4428 February 3-5: Dr. Strangelove, Rensselaer 7 & 9: 15-p.rn. 436-4428

Page 8 ('(JNCORDIEN.'•NS, February 2. 1984 <Jrllnillf~itttsfs LETTERS Foundnl at lln11m Co/Ieee 1877 ------------ ----------- Unguided Power Anyone who is involved in a student club or activity at Union knows who their boss is: the Student Forum. It is the Forum's .responsibility to ove'rsee. and establish guidelines for every student-funded ac- tivity. The Forum can even fire, or remove from office, a member of a student activity (as seen with regard to a certain student publication a few years ago). With all of their responsibilities, the Student Forum does a very good job. However, along with respon-. sibilities comes power-power that should have guidelines. - The Forum sets guidelines for all student activities so that the activities cannot abuse their power. But where are the guidelines for the Student Forum? Perhaps before the Forum establishes any more guidelines for student activities, they should take some time and establish their own guidelines of operation-the bylaws. The bylaws under which our present student government is operating have not been altered since 1978. The purpose of the bylaws is to provide the Forum with the proper procedure to deal officially with each organization's financial and operational functions. It is obvious that things have changed in the past five years and many regulations contained in the 1978 bylaws do not apply to the present Forum. We were promised by last year's Student Forum President that the bylaws would be completed by the end of last winter term. Obviously this did not happen .. The present Student Forum President, Win Thurlow, has not cotnmented on the bylaws or their revision. How long are we going to let the student government operate with an obsolete set of bylaws? At last Monday's Student Forum meeting, Junior: Trustee Shari Midoneck made an informal proposal regarding setting guidelines for the funding of new organizations. The Student Forum voted down Midoneck's proposal with the provision that they would continue to examine the matter. Perhaps they realize that they cannot make more guidelines for. the organizations which they govern without first revising the guidelines for their own procedural fonnat. The recreation of the bylaws is not a minor endeavor, but it is an important matter which we hope that the Forum will take care of. We have waited long enough for a new set of bylaws for our student government. Let's hope that it won't be another five years before this situation is resolved. S-WTC And Terms Abroad To the Editor: Might I make two further comments about the SWTC and Terms Abroad: 1. After talking with Doug Landon when he was writing last week's article on SWTC, I received a letterfrom Professor Patrik in Athens informing me that College Year in Athens could accommodate our group during the spring tenn. To shift programs from winter to spring (or winter to fall. for that matter). solves one problem while creating another. We try to keep the nliiiiber of students participating in faU and winter programs roughly the same so that students returning from fall programs can be guaran• teed on-campus housing. Should Israel remain our only winter program, this guarantee could no longer be made. 2 .. nl would agree with Professor Underwood that it is unfortunafe that Dur students at York cannot remain for the full fifteen weeks. Were- they to remain to finish the York semester, however, they would ·end up with _fewer than six Union credits. It is quite possible that some professors would accept Vice-President D'Andrea's suggestion, but I would forsee major diniculties in science and engineering courses, as well as certain C{)Urses in humanities and social sciences. As far as York is concerned, it is¥ fall or nothing. Sincerely yours, William W. Thomas Director of Terms Abroad Petition + Tap = $$$ To the Editor: It has happened again! ! !The cost of Union College will . in- crease approximately $900 for the 1984-85 academic year. However. there is something we can do about it- The TAP PARITY BILL. (Now if you don't get TAP don't stop reading this letter! ) -An in- crease in TAP will increase the amount of financial aid the State will give the school therefore decreasing the amount of financial aid that comes from the scllool's budget. If the school's budget decreases so will your tuition .bill. This is _ why all students can benefit from the TAP Parity BiU. On Monday, February 6, a petition will be circlilating in support of the Bill. This is just the first in a sedes of cam· paigns sponsored by the Independent Student Coalition of U ni.on College. So, get in· volved! After all, educational op- portunities should be based on the ability to le;ttn rather than the abllity to pay. Sincerely, Dianne ~avacic '85 Shari Midoneck '85 Doug Landon '85 Marcy Wilder '85 Stacy F'assberg '86 Joel Rosenberg '86 Steve Benson '85 Cooperation Appreciated To the Editor: I have received much feed- back on the President's ])inner for the Class of 1~87, and I am pleased to report that most of it is positive. This is a great relief to me since I w.as to a large extent involved in the planning of this event. I hav.e accepted many compliments and words of encouragement since early October when the dinner was first proposed. However, it should b~ emphasized that without the dedication and cooperation of administrators and students this idea would have remained just t)lat, an_ idea. I have found that the students have a capable and. accessible liaison to the administration, namely Dean Joseph Mam- mola. When I first proposed this idea to Dean Mammola he ac6epted it without hesitation though the original plan was not as grand and well thought out as the final event. Because of his guidance and labors, each class entering Union will enjoy and hopefully benefit from the President's Dinner. All of us are indebted to him. Jan Gray and her staff deserve a warm thank you. We challenged them to do something that had never been done before, to prepar.e a sit down dinner for 580. guests in Hale House and Old Chapel. Ask any freshman and they will tell you that thes~ workers handled this task in a professional and organized manner. Student Forum President Win Thurlow has earned my gratitude and respect. Wiri was the first person I proposed this idea to and though he realized that it would take a great deal. of work to see this dinner become a reality, he was always at my side with advice and support. Thanks go out to Assistant Dean Robert Massa and Director of Alumni Affairs Harry Demgen. Dean Massa enlisted the support of the Dutch Pipers who provided entertainment for the evening, while Mr. Demgen reminded the freshmen that in just three and a half years they will join the ranks of many distinguished .. alumni. Both of these men helped us tie up loose ends and their comments . and suggestions were invaluable. A special thanks to President and Mr:;;. Morris and the Student Forum who acted as co- hosts for the evening. I am certain they were delighted to see this event wellattended and successful. Though my original proposal only vaguely resembled the final outcome, there is one line which proved to be accurate, \ . . . the only hope of this program's success is the -cooperation of adtninistrators and ·student leaders.\· We should keep this in mind whenever we hope to ac- complish something good for the entire community. Sincerely; Andrew George· Sophomore Representative Student Forum To the The theda terrifi repres1 class, To the All tl changil have 01 makes· They a1 that < coincid Thanks New irrespo days to year. 1 that WE Day, Washi1 Memm:· throtigl we not others? The 1 would~ at the s college: days trim est by a : would ·time t< preparE courses To the Once year v Office plica tic Union current prepari admini decidinl class of they v majori: derstat• applicll current: County' ask ont officers The] Beirut o mission peacefU: fromu on Sep1 succes~ missior Phalan~ refugee Sabra. days lat 700 dell Preside: that t: goverilll keeping In Pr1 the.mis time wa the situ foreign I and un1 Lebanm authorit Very · ll proppir goverruJ eg.ough WhY: are doirl

Page 8 ( 'ONCORDJJ·:NSIS, Fc•hruary 2. /984 CJrllltfllfbftttSfS LETTERS Foundni a1 l lmon c~ll~~ 1817 ------------ ------------ Unguided Power Anyone who is involved in a student dub or activity at Union knows who their boss is: the Student Forum. It is the Forum's responsibility to oversee and establish guidelines for every student-funded ac- tivity. The Forum can even fire, or remove from office, a member of a student activity (as seen with regard to a certain student publication a few years ago). With all of their responsibilities, the Student Forum does a very good job. However, along with respon-. sibilities comes power-power that should have guidelines. The Forum sets guidelines for all student activities so that the activities cannot abuse their power. But where are the guidelines for the Student Forum? Perhaps before the Forum establishes any more guidelines for student activities, they should take some time and establish their own guidelines of operation-the bylaws. The bylaws under which our present student government is operating have not been altered since 1978. The purpose of the bylaws is to provide the Forum with the proper procedure to deal officially with each organization's financial and operational functions. It is obvious that things have changed in the past five years and many regulations contained in the 1978 bylaws do not apply to the present Forum. We were promised by last year's Student Forum President that the bylaws would be completed l>y the end of last winter term. Obviously this did not happen. The present Student Forum President, Win Thurlow, has not colnmented on the bylaws or their revision. How long are we going to let the student government operate with an obsolete set of bylaws? At last Monday's Student Forum meeting, Junior Trustee Shari Midoneck made an informal proposal regarding setting guidelines for the funding of new organizations. The Student Forum voted down Midoneck's proposal with the provision that they would continue to examine the matter. Perhaps they realize that they cannot make more guidelines for the organizations which they govern without first revising the guidelines for their own procedural format. The recreation of the bylaws is not a minor endeavor, but it is an important matter which we hope that the Forum will take care of. We have waited long enough for a new set of bylaws for our student government. Let's hope that it won't be another five years before this situation is resolved. SWTC And Terms Abroad To the Editor: M:ight I make two further cmnments about the SWTC and Terms Abroad: 1. After talking with Doug Landon when he was writing last week's article on SWTC, I received a letter from Pr·ofessor Patrik: in Athens informing me that Cellege Year in Athens could· acconnJnodate our group during the spring term. To shift pr11grams from winter to spring (or winter to fall, for that matter) solves one problem while creating another. We try to keep the nwnber of students participating in fall and winter programs roughly the same so that students returning from fall programs can be guaran- teed on-campus housing. Should Israel remain our only winter program, this guarantee ceuld no longer be made. 2. I would agree with Professor Underwood that it is unfortunate that our students at York cannot remain for the fuli fifteen weeks. Were they te remain to finish the York semester, however, they would end up with fewer than six Union credits. It is quite possible that some pl'ofessors would accept Vice-President D'Andrea's suggestion, but I would forsee major difficulties in science and engineering courses, as weH as certain courses in humanities and social sciences. As far as York is concerned, it is fall or nothing. Sincerely yours, William W. Thomas Director of Terms Abroad Petition + Tap == $$$ To the Editor: It has happened again!! !The cost of Union College will in- crease approximately $900 for the 1984-85 academic year. However, there is something we can do about it- The TAP PAitiTY BILL. (Now if you don't get TAP don't stop reading this letter! ) An in- crease in TAP will increase the amount of financial aid the State will give the school therefore decreasing the amount of financial aid that comes from the school's budget. If the school's budget decreases so will your tuition bill. This is why all students can benefit from the TAP Parity Bill. On Monday, February 6, a petition will be circulating in support of the Bill. This is just the first in a series of cam- paigns sponsored by the Independent Student Coalition of Union College. So, get in- volved! Mter all, educational op- portunities should be based on the ability to learn rather than the ability to pay. Sincerely, Dianne Pavacic '85 Shari Midoneck '85 Doug Landon '85 Marcy Wilder '85 Stacy F'assberg '86 Joel Rosenberg '86 Steve Benson '85 Cooperation Appreciated To tile Editor: I have received much feed- back on the President's Dinner for the Class of 1987, and I am pleased to report that most of it is positive. This is a great relief to me since I was to a large extellt involved in the planning of this event. I have accepted many- compliments and words of enc<)Uragement since early October when the dinner was first proposed. However, it should be emphasized that without the dedication and cooperation of administrators and students this idea would have remained just that, an idea. I have found that the students have a capable and accessible liaison to the administration, namely Dean Joseph Mam- mola. When I first proposed this idea to Dean Marnmola he accepted it without hesitation though the original plan was not as grand and well thought out as the final event. Because of his guidance and labors, each class entering Union will enjoy and hopefully benefit from the President's Dinner. All of us are indebted to him. Jan Gray and her staff deserve a warm thank you. We challenged them to do something that had never been done before, to prepare a sit down dinner for 580 guests in Hale House and Old Chapel. Ask any freshman and they will tell you that these workers handled this task in a professional and organized manner. Student Forum President Win Thurlow has earned my gratitude and respect. Win was the first person I proposed this idea t() and though he realized that it would take a great deal of work to see this dinner become a reality, he was always at my side with advice and support. Thanks go out to Assistant Dean Robert Massa and Director of Alumni Affairs Harry Demgen. Dean Massa enlisted the support of the Dutch Pipers who provided entertainment for the evening, while Mr. Demgen reminded the freshmen that in just three and a half years they will join the ranks of many distinguished alumni. Both of these men helped us tie up loose ends and their comments and suggestions were invaluable. A special thanks to President and Mrs. Morris and the Student Forum who acted as co- hosts for the evening. I am certain they were delighted to see this event well attended and successful. Though my original proposal only vaguely resembled the final outcome, there is one line which proved to be accurate, \ . . . the only hope of this program's success is the cooperation of administrators and student leaders.\ We should keep this in mind whenever we hope to ac- complish something good for the entire community. Sincerely, Andrew George - Sophomore Representative Student Forum Bob Rislsell~ Deb:bte Et;osei --Janice Thompson;· .J· tAt~:v q,...-1\'iitli'l:r', Photo,Staff · .. . . ·. Jinl·~mpbell DavidDworkin, Larry Kaminsky, LiZ Karatim;cP~ul KWin, PatMerrttt, .. .Steve,Rgbbi:ils\Steve Fra'nk~korina·· ,.if I t . ~ ' j ! j . I l I ' I I ; ~ ~ I l -~ ' i To the The the cia terrifi repres1 class, To the All tl changi1 have 01 makes· They a1 that c coincid Thanks New irrespo days to year. 1 that we Day, Washir Memor througt we not others? The 1 would CJ at the s college: days trim est by a 1 would time tc preparE courses To the Once year v Office plicati< Union current prepari admini decidin1 class of they v majoril derstatl applica current: County1 ask on1 officers N The 11 Beirut o mission peacefU: from LE on Sep1 succes~ missior Phalan~ refugee Sabra. days lat 700 dell Preside1 that tl goveriUJ keeping In Pr1 the mis time wa the situ foreignl and uni Lebano1 authorit Very s proppir governn enough Why l are doill

i' CONCORDIENSJS, February 2, 1984 Page9 New Tradition Appreciated To the Editor: The President's Dihner for the class Qf 1987 was absolutely terrific. .As two new representatives of the freshman class, we are impressed with the efforts that went into this dinner. We would like to take this opportunity to thank Preside~t Morris, Dean Mammola and the Student Forum;· The unity of the freshman. class, enhanced by The President's Dinner, is im· portant. Hopefully, this affair will becom.e a tradition at Union College, . Sincerely, Steven Moss and:Samuel White A Modest Proposal To the Editor: All the current proposals for changing the college calendar have one·thing in common that makes them difficult to e~ecute. They are all based em the belief that our vacations should coincide With the holidays of Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Yea·r's. It seems irresponsible to allow three days to screw up a whole school year. There are four holidays that we ignore here: Columbus Day, Veteran's Day, Washington's Birthday, and Memorial Day. If we can work through these holidays, why can we not work through the three others? The calendar that t propose would allow us to start the year at the same time as most other colleges aild let us out a few days before them. Each trimester would be $eparated by a two-week break which would give professors ample . time to grade exams and to prepare for the next term's courses. (Just what one does to prepare a course he teaches all the time is beyond me.) A tw~ week break also gives students a chance to unwind and relax. Under my proposed calendar, classes would start oh the last Monday in August. (In 198.1 they would start on the first Monday in September.) After ten weeks · of classes. and a week of exams, - vacation would .start at the end of the second week of November. Classes for the second trimester would begin on ' the last Monday in N'ovember and end on the first Friday of February. Exams for the second trimester would end a week later and a second two- wee.k · break . would foUow. Classes would resume on the last Monday in February (In 1987,. the first Monday in March). Exams for the third trimester would be completed by the end of the second week of ·May! There are many advantages to this proposed calendar. We do not split any tenns. We eliminate the \siege\ from January to June. Students entering the summer job field do so before students from most other colleges. The vacations .give students a chance to travel before the rush. Our students can vacation when the ski resorts and the beaches are less' crowded. · To the bleeding- sentimentalists who want to spend the holidays with their · famUies, I suggest looking at the matter this way; you will only be giving up four holiday seasons out of a lifetime. Once you leave Union you can spend your holidays any way you want. Some members of the faculty might be apprehensive atxJut this plan but once they realize that it is the most logical and ' efficient proposal, they should support it. This proposal makes the most sense of any put forth. I would hope the Committee on Union_ Education and other decision- making bodies give it every consideration. Michael Garrett '87 Decisions on the Class of 1·988, To the Editor: Once again it is that time ·Of year when the Admissions Office is loaded up wtih ap- plications for admission to Union College. While our current student body is busily preparing for'tnid-terms, some administration officials are deciding who will l:>e Union's class of 1988. More tban likely they will decide that the majority (maybe an un- derstatement) of the qualified applicants ju~t happen to currently reside in Westchester County or on Long Island. If you ask one of these admissions officers, I'm sure he or she would' be quick to quote some · statistics which confirm that there are Union students .from \thirty-five states and several foreign countries.\ But we all know that Union suffers from that dreaded disease, ''homogeneous student-body diSease.\ This disease has run rampant during my tenure at Union and only seems to be getting stronger. I wonder if there isn't a born and bred Long Islander in the admissions office hell-bent on perpetuating the current status quo. . If you were an administration official would you be con· cerned? The overall quality of the applicants is up, the ap- plication-acceptance ratio is most likely higher than ever, the students are virtually clones of each other and they tend to .hang out in the library six or seven days a week. Wow, the ultimate utopian society. .Soon, the admissions office will reach its ultimate goal: Barron's.Most Competitive list. If you were an intelligent, well- rounded, worldly 18-year-old from a New England prep school, or from the mid-west, or from the mid-atlantic, would you want to attend Union? ' Michael W. Rogers · Phil~delphia Classof'84 M . . B . artnes m ·. e1rut By ERIC COOK The Marines first landed in Beirut on August 25, 1982~ Their mission then was to ensure the peaceful evacuation of the PLO from Lebanon. They left Beirut on September 10, 1982 aft:er successfully completing this mission. Six days later Phalangist forces entered the refugee camps of Shatilla and Sabra. When they left three days later they left behind over 700 dead. On September 20, President Reagan announced that the infant Lebanese government was incapable of keeping order~ In President Reagan's words the· mission of the Corps this time was: \ ... to help stabilize the situation in Beirut until all foreign forces can be withdrawn and until the government of Lebanon can take over the authority of its own territory.\ Very simply we are. there propping Up. Gemayel's government until it is strong enough to stand alone. . Why are we doing this? We are doing it because the US has important goals with respect towards the Middle East that would not be served by letting Gemayel fall. Primarily we want peacet or at the very least, a reduction of tensions in the Mid(ile East. If Gemayel's. government was allowed to fall who whould fill the vacuum? The danger is ·that Syrian in· vasion of Lebanon would. resUlt in an immediate response from the Israelies who could not tolerate a Syraian-controlled Lebanon. The result would almost certainiy . be a war between Israel and -Syria. The Syrians are big clients of the Soviet Union. The Israelis are big clients of the US. All of a sudden the issue takes on a chilling aspect; Superpower cenfrontation. If the Marines and other units of the multi-national force are removed from Beirut, Gemayel · and his government will fall. Syria : will then act, either overtly by invasion, or subtly be backing varioUS factions in Lebanon. The result will be the same, Syrian domination. War w'ill then be alniost inevitable. Redeployment to the high areas, or worse, back on-board ship is not the answer either. Both moves would involve pDlitical victories for Syria, and loss of face for the US. It would be an admission of failure on our part to take either of these actions. It is not an easy job, it is not even a militarily sound job. But we are not there for a military goal. We are there for a political goal, stability in the . Middle East. Military force is designed to support political goals. The Marines went to Beirut in support of a political goal, they should not be withdrawn until that goal has been achieved. Commentaries.· represent the views · of the author and not tlie Editorial Board of . CON- I. CORDIEN$15. COMMENTARIES Call For Ac·tion By MARCY BURSTINER I was told of an incident which occurred at this college . sometime last week, and it frightened me, A femal student was attacked on Lenox Rd. on • her way back from a party. She did not have very far to walk, only a couple of blocks or so. Perhaps she should not have been walking alone af night; that was my first reaction. I have thought about this incident for a week now, and the more I analyze it, the more it bothers me. She was not hurt- the attacker was only able to grab her a second or so before she was able to pull away and run home. She was lucky. He had jumped out from nowhere, I was told. It was dark outside and he surprised her. The story was told to me second-hand, I admit. Yet, I do not doubt the story. I know of no evidence to back it up and there were not witnesses to prove it happened. My intent here is only to point out a problem, and I admit I have no solutions. The student did not report the attack. She told only a few friends about it, as far as I know. I heard it from a mutual acquaintance. At first I thought it a bad move that she chose to leave the matter alone. How can we stop these things from happening if no one will report them? Yet, it is easy to accuse when one is not the victim. She felt uneasy about signing a complaint or a formal charge. She wished to keep her name out of it; she only wanted to have it not happen again. I understand her unease. I feel there is a great distrust on this campus toward Security. In filling out a formal charge against an attacker or any incident of harassment or act of violence, can a student be certain that anonymity would be guaranteed? Is it even possible? Can one feel safe that one will not become the victim of further harassment from a now-angered individual? I believe the student body needs~ to know exactly where Security, the dean of students' office, and any or all factions of the college community involved in such iSsues actually stands. Yes, Security does come out with policy statements each year. Yet, these statements are vague and not very comforting. There are exactly 205 words on the subject of sexual harassment in the student handbook. The most detailed sentence within it reads: \Should students feel they have been the victims of any fonn of behavior noted above, they may bring such matters to the attention of the dean of students or deans in the Office of Vice President of Academic Affairs for proper adjudication of grievances.\ By merely reading the handbook, what happens once one goes to the dean's office with a complaint is anyone's guess. For one thing, I would feel more than a little un- comfortable in bringing any matter as personal as sexual harassment to Dean D'Andrea's office, although I ·might be bringing disfavor upon myself by stating so in print. I could probably convince myself to bring my problem to the attention of Dean Mammola or Dean Massa, but not Without any definite knowledge of what would happen to my complaint once it was made. The administration-both the Security department and the various deans' offices are being either intentionally or Wlin· tentionally evasive in their written policies. What we need is specific policy statements, and I emphasize the word specific. So quell the doubts and distrust that many students have towards Security, and I know that it is either a much underestimated or covered-up problem; students must know exactly what they can expect from the college. Mere policy statements are not good enough. We need to know exactly what will happen when charges are made, how much anonymity one can ex- pect, and what the chances are of getting harassed again once the complaint is filed. We need honesty-the administration must be willing to put itself on the line with detailed statements-and it must be willing to back up those statements once they are made. A problem definitely exists on this campus. It will not go away by pretending it does not exist. It will also not go. away unless cooperation and mutual trust can be worked out between the students and the ad- ministration. All I know is that something needs to be done. All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- · mitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publicati- on. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. Philosophy Department Col/oq.uia PRESENTS SCIENCE AND VALUES Friday, February 3, 1984 MICHAEL RUSE Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard Univ. 3:30- HU213 Is there radical dissimulation in Descartes' Meditations? Thursday, February 9, 1984 LOUIS LOEB University of Michigan 4:00--RV213

) t ' ~ i ' ' i . ' . I I ! i I ! i }, i ~~ I I ! l ~ i ' CONCORDIENSIS, February 2, 1984 Page9 New Tradition Appreciated To the Editor: The President's Dinner for the class of 1987 was absolutely terrific. As two new representatives of the freshman class, we are impressed with the efforts that went into this dinner. We would like to take thi:s opportunity to thank President Morris, Dean Mammola and the Student Forum. The unity of the freshman class, enhanced by The President's Dinner, is im- portant. Hopefully, this affair will become a tradition at Union College. Sincerely, Steven Moss and Samuel White A Modest Proposal To the Editor: All the current proposals for changing the college calendar have one thing in common that makes them difficult to execute. They are all based on the belief that our vacations should coincide with the holidays of Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year's. It seems irresponsible to allow three days to screw up a whole school year. There are four holidays that we ignore here: Columbus Day, Veteran's Day, Washington's Birthday, and Memorial Day. If we can work through these holidays, why can we not work through the three others? The calendar that I propose would allow us to start the year at the same time as most other colleges and let us out a few days before them. Each trimester would be separated by a two-week break which would give professors ample time to grade exams and to prepare for the next term's courses. (Just what one does to prepare a course he teaches all the ti.Ihe is beyond me.) A two- week break also gives students a chance ta unwind and relax. Under my proposed calendar, classes would start on the last Monday in August. (In 1985 they would start on the first Monday in September.) After ten weeks of classes and a week of exams, vacation would start at the end of the second week of November. Classes for the second trimester would begin on the last Monday in November and end on the first Friday of February. Exams for the second trimester would end a week later and a second two- week break would follow. Classes would resume on the last Monday in February (In 1987, the first Monday in March). Exams for the third trimester would be completed by the end of the second week of May! There are many advantages to this proposed calendar. We do not split any terms. We eliminate the \siege\ from January to June. Students entering the smmner job field do so before students from most other coUeges. The vacations give students a chance ta travel before the rush. Our students can vacation when the ski resorts and the beaches are less crowded. To the bleeding- sentimentalists who want to spend the holidays with their families, I suggest looking at the matter this way; you will only be giving up four holiday seasens out of a lifetime. Once you leave Union you can spend your holidays any way you want. Some members of the faculty might be apprehensive about this plan but once they realize that it is the most logical and efficient proposal, they should support it. This proposal makes the most sense of any put forth. I would hope the Committee on Union Education and other decision- making bodies give it every consideration. Michael Garrett '87 Decisions on the Cl~ of 1988 To the Editor: Once again it is that time of year when the Admissions Office is loaded up wtih ap- plications for admission to Union College. While our current student body is busily preparing for·mid-tenns, some administration officials are deciding who will be Union's class of 1988. More than likely they will decide that the majority (maybe an un- derstatement) of the qualified applicants just happen to currently reside in Westchester County or on Long Island. If you ask one of these admissions officers, I'm sure he or she would be quick to quote some statistics which confirm that there are Union students from \thirty-five states and several foreign countries.\ But we all know that Union suffers from that dreaded disease, \homogeneous student-body disease.\ This disease has run rampant during my tenure at Union and only seems to be getting stronger. I wonder if there isn't a born and bred Long Islander in the admissions office hell-bent on perpetuating the current status quo. If you were an administration official would you be con- cerned? The overall quality of the applicants is up, the ap- plication-acceptance ratio is most likely higher than ever, the students are virtually clones of each other and they tend to hang out in the library six or seven days a week. Wow, the ultimate utopian society. Soon, the admissions office will reach its ultimate goal: Barron's. Most Competitive list. If you were an intelligent, well- rounded, worldly 18-year-old from a New England prep school, or from the mid-west, or from the mid-atlantic, would you want to attend Union? · Michael W. Rogers Philadelphia Class of '84 Marines in Beirut By ERIC COOK The Marines first landed in Beirut on August 25, 1982. Their mission then was to ensW'e the peaceful evacuation of the PLO from Lebanon. They left Beirut on September 10, 1982 after successfully completing this mission. Six days later Phalangist forces entered the refugee camps of Shatilla and Sabra. VVhen they left three days later they left behind over 700 dead. On September 20, President Reagan announced that the infant Lebanese government was incapable of keeping order. In President Reagan's words the mission of the Corps this time was: \ ... to help stabilize the situation in Beirut until all foreign forces can be withdrawn and until the government of Lebanon can take over the authority of its own territory.\ Very simply we are there propping up Gemayel's government until it is strong enough to stand alone. Why are we doi:ng this? We are doing it because the US has important goals with respect towards the Middle East that would not be served by letting Gemayel fall. Primarily we want peace, or at the very least, a reduction of tensions in the Middle East. If Gemayel's government was allowed to fall who whould fill the vacuum? The danger is that Syrian in- vasion of Lebanon would result in an immediate response from the Israelies who could not tolerate a Syraian-controlled Lebanon. The result would almost certainly be a war between Israel and -Syria. The :syrmns are big clients of the Soviet Union. The Israelis are big clients of the US. All of a sudden the issue takes on a chilling aspect; Superpower confrontation. If the Marines and other units of the multi-national force are removed from Beirut, Gemayel and his government will fall. Syria · will then act, either overtly by invasion, or subtly be backing various factions in Lebanon. The result will be the same, Syrian domination. War will then be almost inevitable. Redeployment to the high areas, or worse, back on-board ship is not the answer either. Both moves would involve political victories for Syria, and loss of face for the US. It would be an admission of failure on our part to take either of these actions. It is not an easy job, it is not even a militarily sound job. But we are not there for a military goal. We are there for a political goal, stability in the Middle East. Military force is designed to support political goals. The Marines went to Beirut in support of a political goal, they should not be withdrawn until that goal has been achieved. Commentaries represent the views of the author and not the Editorial Board of CON .. CORDIENSIS. COMMENTARIES Call For Action By MARCY BURSTINER I was told of an incident which occurred at this college sometime last week, and it frightened me. A femal student was attacked on Lenox Rd. on her way back from a party. She did not have very far to walk, only a couple of blocks or so. Perhaps she should not have been walking alone at night; that was my first reaction. I have thought about this incidentfor a week now, and the more I analyze it, the more it bothers me. She was not hurt- the attacker was only able to grab her a second or so before she was able to pull away and run home. She was lucky. He had jumped out from nowhere, I was told. It was dark outside and he surprised her. The story was told to me second-hand, I admit. Yet, I do not doubt the story. I know of no evidence to back it up and there were not witnesses to prove it happened. My intent here is only to point out a problem, and I admit I have no solutions. The student did not report the attack. She told only a few friends about it, as far as I know. I heard it from a mutual acquaintance. At first I thought it a bad move that she chose to leave the matter alone. How can we stop these things from happening if no one will report them? Yet, it is easy to accuse when one is not the victim. She felt uneasy about signing a complaint or a formal charge. She wished to keep her name out of it; she only wanted to have it not happen again. I understand her unease. I feel there is a great distrust on this campus toward Security. In filling out a fonnal charge against an attacker or any incident of harassment or act of violence, can a student be certain that anonymity would be guaranteed? Is it even possible? Can one feel safe that one will not become the victim of further harassment from a now-angered individual? I believe the student body needs. to know exactly where Security, the dean of students' office, and any or all factions of the college community involved in such issues actually stands. Yes, Security does come out with policy statements each year. Yet, these statements are vague and not very comforting. There are exactly 205 words on the subject of sexual harassment in the student handbook. The most detailed sentence within it reads: \Should students feel they have been the victims of any form of behavior noted above, they may bring such matters to the attention of the dean of students or deans in the Office of Vice President of Academic Affairs for proper adjudication of grievances.\ By merely reading the handbook, what happens once one goes to the dean's office with a complaint is anyone's guess. For one thing, I would feel more than a little un- comfortable i:n bringing any matter as personal as sexual harassment to Dean D'Andrea's office, although I might be bringing disfavor upon myself by stating so in print. I could probably convince myself to bring my problem to the attention of Dean Mammola or Dean Massa, but not without any definite knowledge of what would hapl'>en to my complaint once it was made. The administration-both the Security department and the various deans' offices are being either intentionally or unin- tentionally evasive in their written policies. What we need is specific policy statements, and I emphasize the word specific. So quell the doubts and distrust that many students have towards Security, and I know that it is either a much underestimated or covered-up problem; students must know exactly what they can expect from the college. Mere policy statements are not good enough. We need to know exactly what will happen when charges are made, how much anonymity one can ex- pect, and what the chances are of getting harassed again once the complaint is filed. We need honesty-the administration must be willing to put itself on the line with detailed statements-and it must be willing to back up those statements once they are made. A problem definitely exists on this campus. It will not go away by pretending it does not exist. It will also not go away unless cooperation and mutual trust can be worked out between the students and the ad- ministration. All I know is that something needs to be done. All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before pub I icati- on. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. Philosophy Department Colloquia PRESENTS SCIENCE AND VALUES Friday, February 3, 1984 MICHAEL RUSE Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard Univ. 3:30-IIU213 Is there radical dissimulation in Descartes' Meditations? Thursday, Februar} 9, 1984 LOUIS LOEB University of Michigan 4:00--HU213

Page 10 THE ARTS By SUSIE COHEN and TOD DIMMICK Have you ever watched a dance company perform and then wondered how did they •lance those moves? How do they develop their beautifUlly toned bodies?. Well ... Union College's Dance Club has organized a special day, a day not only to watch Paul Taylor's professional dance company perfonn. but also to train with the dancers and watch them rehearse right before \show time.\ Paul Taylor has danced and choreographed for more than twenty years, and even today his performances have an in- fectious energy and vitality. His :'ornpany is made up.of 16 men and women, from all parts of the world where there is dance. In bis 30 years of experience he has gained a large following with an impressive array of awards and praise. Alth()ugh Paul Taylor has been called a modern dance creator his work is different from what we might think of as modern dance. He insists upon extensive use of scenery, especially lighting, to create his maod. \Traditional\ Modern dance, on the other hand uses almost no props, and thus leaves understanding to the imagination. Working to all different kinds of music, Taylor writes and directs dances with a ) variety of ideas. The dancers portray anifuals, savages, or gods. Each time there are specific costumes and actions. Through them he creates not so much a role, rather a mood for the drama. Thus even if we are not precisely sure what characters are, we are infected with the energy and the fascination. He tells simple stories or fantasies that have origins in the dream realm. The attraction of the Dance Company is these stories built by the originality of the dance. Every dance explores a new direction of movement, from the eerie t<J buoyant exuberance. The Dancers are known to have a vitality that is unmatched. Paul Taylor stopped dancing himself in 1975. Since then he has honed his skills as a director and choreographer. His dance company has a diversity that allows almost anything possible. Under Taylor's guidance, they have created something that probably can not be defined, but at the same time shouldn't be missed. The Paul Taylor Dance Company is one of America's National Modern Dance treasures. They have per· formed in over 300 American cities and in over 53 countries. They've been called exciting, delightful, outstanding, da:~\;· zling, funny, provocative, physically magnificant, devilishly clever and above all, beautiful If you only go to Procter's once this year, we suggest Taylor, Friday or Music for your Ears By ARTS STAFF On Friday evening, February 3, at 8:«10 PM the Department of the Arts will be presenting \From Reading Abbey to Hampt()n Court, A Program of Medieval and Renaissance Music:., in Union College Memorial Chapel. The program is to include Early and Late Medieval English selections and Early Renaissance Continental and Renaissance English music. Period instruments include rebecs, recorders, mem.Ung fiddle, glockenspiel, voices, violns, and drum. Performers: Lisle Kulback, one of the finest e~rly musicians in the Boston area, is expert and versatile upon early strings and winds. Recently she has been invited to become the Director of The Quadrivium, a group which has been the source of much of Boston's eariy music tradition. Christine Rua studied in Vienna and graduated from the Crane School of Music, concentrating on oboe .• She performs early music: on voice, strings and winds. She has played with the Utah Shakespeare Festival, is a member -of the Quadrivium, as well as Music's Moment, a group in New Hampshire directed by Persis Ensor and specializes in authentic presentations of dance and music. Julian Cole bas been playing early music since his childhood. He has performed in London, Philadelphia, and New York as well as in the Eoston area. He plays winds and· strings, as well as singing. Julian Cole is a member of The Quadrivium, and Music's Moment. He was also a Professor of Math here for a few years. The public is cordially invited to attend. LAST CHANCE to apply to the Skellar Board. Applications due Monday, feb. 6 •. Pick up applications in Student Activities. Union Terms Abroad Information meeting for all students interested in going on a term abroad for the academic year 1984-85. Thurs. 2/9 • 4:30p.m. • 88016 Saturday, February 10-11 at 8 p.m. If you wou,ld like to pay the \discount price\ of $10.60 or $7 .65, please sign up with Alex, the Art's Department Secretary, on the second fl()or of the Arts Building. Ple{ise sign up by Tuesday, February 7th. Before you watch the Paul Taylor Dancers perform, join us for a masterclass taught by one of Taylor's senior dancers, Thomas Evert. The class will be dynamic and exciting . . . there's nothing like \feeling\ a group dance before you watch them perform. The masterclass will be given on Saturday February 11, at 12:00-1:30 p.m. in Arts 202. Unfortunately, there is a limit of 20 people so hurry and sign up with Alex in the Arts Building. You must bring the- $3.00 fee when you sign up. But that's still not all ... If you would like to watch a professional dance company rehearse, join the Dance Club on Friday or Saturday, February 10-1. Tayl()r dancer.s will be rehearsing from 3:30- 5:30 at Proctors. Watch the difference, if there is one, between a rehearsal and a performance. Again, please sign up. Don't miss this chance to really \get to know\ a fabulous modern dance group .. Join Union's Dance Club and par- ticipate in the total-Taylor experience. You may sign up for all three activities or just two or one. Dance them, feel them, watch them. By STEFANIE SPANIER Everyone has gone to a hockey game this term or a football game last term, and some of you have probably even made it to a swim meet, but what about the other talent at Union College? Yes, the musical talent, and we do have quite a lot of very gifted musicians here. Just go to see and hear the Jazz Ensemble, Band, Glee Clubs, Cabaret acts or the smaller Practicum en- · sembles. Now you have the opportunity to enjoy the talents of some of the campus' applied music students; classical pianists and a guitarist. I know what you're saying, \Oh no-R.ot classical music, that puts me to sleep!\ Come on now, classical music may not have a steady pulsing bass line or a heat to make you get up and dance, but it is a very enjoyable, pleasant form of music and you don't even have to travel far to hear it per~ formed well. This year's first recital by students of Ms. Pola Baytelman, Jill Eercow, Janice Thompson and Marlene Waldman, and a student of Mr. Ron Letteron, Nick Moran, will take. place on Wednesday, February 8, 1984 at 7:45 in the Arts Building, Room AB 202: (Yes, that is on the second floor.) The program includes a diversified collection of pieces and J am sure no one (yes, NO- ONE! ) will be bored or fall asleep. The program includes Beethoven's Tempest and Debussy's Arabesque which ar.e .quite enjoyable and the concert Will not run longer than 60 minutes (you can spare an hour) so it won't take away from your other varied in- terests. These are Union College students taking the same courses as the rest of us and they also take music .lessons. They practice and practice and practice; rehearsing all term or even aU year, waiting to per- form. 'lbe performance is not the same as sitting in a room by yourself playing. There is a different technique involved- it's difficult to get up and perform in front .of a roomful of people because you don't just go to hear a concert, you also see a concert. They're not just playing the piano or the guitar- they're showing themselves off too. Posture, expression and enthusiasm are all part of it; not everyone is a performer. Why don't you (and· yes, this does include faculty and staff, who it would be nice to see in• volv·ed at Union functions) come down and spend an hour at a concert, If you've never been to a classical music concert befQre, let me tell you this one should be good, and who knows, maybe you~ll even enjoy it. With an open mind, you let in a lot of interesting things worth thinking about. You've gone out to support our athletes; now cheer on our musicians, after all, what would we all be without the music in our lives'? If there are any questions please contact Susie .Cohen at 381-4457 or Lynda·Ril!hards at r~~~~~~~*-~~-XK+::!{:::O!+~:~ ~~~t's sillg, II Students For I By ARTS STAFF This Saturday, February 4th at 8:30 in the Memorial Chapel, there will be a repeat per- formance of the men's Glee Club with Wheaton. College, of Norton, Massachusetts singing the Coronation Mass. Last term this was performed at Wheaton College. Four soloists will be featured in the Coronation Mass. They are Patricia Osterlitz (soprano), Carol Randles (alto), Rand Reeves (tenor), and Paul Kibler (bass), all professionals· from the Schenectady area. Elinore Farnum will accompany the Mass at the Organ. Hugh Allen Wilson, a professor in the arts depart- ment is the coordinator and head of the Union College Glee Club. This concert is assured to be a success and we hope that many will attend. · I M d I. ~ 1 on a e 1 ~ I I First Event.· - 8 ~ ~ I Campaign Trip to i I New Ha.Rpshire • Feb. 11-12 i • I I Bus, Food, Lodging ? a I I All Paid For ~~ i Contact: I I Rob 374-4095 I I ~ I· Steve 381-9534 I ., ... ~~~~»!1~~~--~,x:~~,~fM(::d . C,me Z71. a~do-)oih u5 -- ;for Je~~e::r-t- -- .llnd a 1.c.1~ob! lac 'more p //, ~ '?vt; J':Jtp-IJ.:IJ08hz -· . ~· If. ')lehJ~,11/on~. i M:cln~~i l?t tht: 2/ute.J,_ M?l\& A<J Sir ByJAl A cou certain , how Cal she was; have to and botl sold. out. feel as il for good~ that rr. recently last Thw that oldE yet,· anc apprecia The la and ther leftemp1 could tel the acts Cohen, Spoor 01 first ac >- .I! It: ... ·0 ... <o ell t: <o .c ... ttl t: 0 ...., > .c .E c .c c Membel OnFr Jerling · Union· ( bring UJ wonderj tertainn Michael wide va from c, ragtime, his m1 imaginal Atming : \Lullabl a recent] her son ..... • = ~ • ., • • • • • • • • • •• • I • • • • • • •••

> .::,{. u: 0 .... ttl al t: ttl .t: .... ttl t: 0 ., > .Q .E c .c t: CONCORDIENSIS, February 2, 1984 Page 11 THE ARTS Sing 'Till You·r Heart's Content By JANICE C; THOMPSON A couple of weeks ago, a · certain senior was telling me how Cabaret used to be when she was a freshman. She used to have to wait in line for tickets and both shows were always sold out. She was beginning to feel as if those days were gone for good, with the little interest that most students have recently shown for Cabaret. Yet last Thursday night proved that that.old enthusiasm h~s not died yet, and Union students still appreciat~ Cabaret. The late show was sold out, and there were very few tables left empty forthe early one. One could tell from the turnout that the acts would be good. .Jodi Cohen, accompanied by Phil Spoor on piano, sang for the first act. J·octi's songs were mellow and she made it easy for us to relax and listen to her clear, strong voice. Nuong her selections was a slow, jazzy rendition of ''I Only Have Eyes For You\. a song from Sesame Street called \Filling the Air With Love.,••· and the familiar . piece that has become her theme song at Cabaret, \Desperado.\ Plrll's talented improvisation on the piano, his powerfUl chords and soft, quiet, high notes were . a perfect compliment to Jodi's voice. The second act of the evening was aperfQnnance by the bandt ''The Antithetical Dividing Rabbits.'·' The grollp consists of Jim Hassenfeld and Steve Dockery on .guitar, Mike Klein on harmonica and leac;l vocals, Craig Fowler on bass, Ch1,1ck Cohen on drums and Jamie Members of \The Antithetical DiViding R·abbits\ performing. Food and Song On Friday, Feb. 3rd, Michael anguish of their situation, Jerling will be returning to the \Driving Willie Home,'' a look Union College Coffeehouse to at a young man's }()ve of heroes, bring Union College students a and ''The Return of the Belly,'' wonderful evening of en- a ~poof on dieting. In his music, tertainment. Singer-songwriter which .is reminiscent of that of Michael Jerling draws on a Harry Chapin and Jim Croce, wide variety of styles ranging Michael tells stories, stories of from country and folk, to ,people that we have all known ragtime, tojazzandrock to give at some time or another. his music a vivid and Michael's performance will imaginative style all its own. begin at 8:30 p.m. in the Among some of his songs are Cabaret Room. Tickets are on \Lullabye a dialogue between sale at $1.50. Hope to see you a recently divorced mother and there. her son which captures the ............ - . ' ' J'······,···:··············· • • I contil:\lg friday, I • • i, feb. 10 ... . i • • I MOUNTEBANK'S I. • • • 2nd Annual • • • • • • • • Schoenfeld on keyboard. Their show was full of variety, with songs by such different artists as Warren Zevon, Linda Ron· stadt and Joe Jackson. The band also played some original songs, written by Steve Dockery, entitled \Rich Man Blues\ and \Plastic.\ The Rabbits were energetic, and gave a fine performance, in· viting the audience to join in and dance. The entire evening proved that Cabaret can be fun, if only p,eople would get involved. The performers and staff of Cabaret, and those students. who regularly attend the Thursday night shows all hope that the good turnout this week will continue. A full audience always helps Cabarefto be a lot more successful. Jodi Cohenperforming at Cabaret WRUC 8 fl . 1 f Ill • S 1 E .R E 0 Jazz It Up By ERIC LIPMAN Each day at twelve-thirty, after most of us have enjoyed a fine lunch, WRUC takes a musical sojourn in the af- ternoon. Although the progressive playlists are put away for s()me three hours, our ~ afternoon .Jazz shows are an important part. of our programming; different, but flllldamentally WRUC at its very best. Jazz capsulizes successfully what WRUC has been in search of for so very long, a new ap- The Stage· By TODDIMMICK Proctor's is ·continuing its eventful season with the award . Winning play, \Master Harold\ and the boys. The director and playwright is · Athol Fugard, a man who has directed plays of his own on broadway and received Tony award nominations for directing. Zakes Makae, the man who played the Tony Award winilfug role of Sam on Broadway will star in. the same role in this performance. Ray Aranha will be Willie. Sam's counterpart is the well known actor Evan Handler as Hally. Athol Fugard is a South African who is writing from his own experiences. The realness has been seen in the emotional, living passages of the play. The basic plot is the relationship between Sam, an older black man with Master Harold (Hally) who is a product of the white South African ruling class, with aU of the resulting beliefs. The play portrays Sam as a deep, human person with a view of life that is made of syrn- booism and belief. A play that has brought such acclaim sh.Quld be worth the trip. It is being performed February 8. 1983 Yearbooks proach to music and music programming, and composition that is universially agreed to be of artistic merit. The music is a source of enthusiasm both in· side and outside the campus radio station not only because it is genuinely entertaining, but because for the diSc jockey's and listeners alike it touches on some common values: the jazz musicians are people like us; they are talented, they enjoy music as an art fonn, they don't care much for commercialism, and quite often- they work together as friends to create a worthwhile final product. And quite truthfully, it is from these people who themselves are lovers of Jazz, that come the ·real innovations of program- ming. A change developed by John Euell, the station's program manager, and a number of his Jazz D.J.'s, was the Jazz' Spotlight. Each da'y on the Jazz Spotlight a new jazz album is featured in its entirety. It is an important change because not only do the musicians get a very fair \hearing\ as it were, ·but we are also treated to the W()rk of other famous musicians wh.o often appear as cQllaborators on some of the minor cuts on the album. As Rob. Garry points out, the famous Jean Luc Ponty- ·whose album was featured on ~ob's show this week-finds time to help new jazz musicians make their start. His help and collaboration are important contributions that might for the most part go unrecognized if it were not for those who played a number of cuts off the album. . I NIGHTCLUB ~~ On Sale $15 each At WRUC, we feel that Jazz in the afternoon is a worthwhile listening treat for the campus community. It's message is essentially the one that we would like extended to you; we are people who enjoy new and innovative music, and we hope that you will come and share with us the work of these very talented men and women. • c • 1 rmrm ·· 1 • • • Tickets $1.50 • 8:30 & 11 p.m. • I FREEBEER&PUNCH •. • • . ... . -• ••••••••••••••••••••••• See Mrs. Marra in the Stude,nt Activities Office 'Arts Writers Needed *6476*

' f Puge I! ( '0/V( 'ORIUI:'.V.WS. Fehrmuy 2, !WU CAMPUS NEWS SCHOLARSHIPS Applications for the 1984-85 Pennsvlvania State Grants for Pennsylvania residents are now available in the Financial Aid Office. Phi Chi Theta Foundation is- offering $1,000 grants for 1984-85 to Women pursuing Bachelor's and Master's programs in business and-or economics\ The . application: deadline is May 1. Further information can be obtained at the Financial Aid Office. The Jewish Foundation for Education of Women is a non- sectarian organization that offers need-based grants and interest-free loans. Information and applications for 1984-85 can be· obtained by writing to the Foundation at 120 West 57 Street, New York, N.Y. 10019. Delta Delta Delta is con- ducting a scholarship coll.l- petition for undergraduate women for 1984-85. Applicants ate considered on the basis of academic record; . ex- tracurricular activities and community service, promise of service to· their chosen field, and financial need. Applications, which must be submitted prior to March 15, are available in the Financial Aid Office, Dean's Office, and from the Tri Delta Service Projects Chairman on this campus. .. The National Society of Professional Engineers offers scholarships to undergraduate engineering students with at least a 3.6 G.P.A. Applications for 1984-,85, are available in the Financial Aid Office. The American Society of Naval Engineers is offering non-need-based awards to· undergraduate students in a program of study related to naval engineering (including Elect rica 1 Engineering). Applications, which are due by February 15, are available in the Financial Aid Office. The Society 'Of Exploration Geophysicists Education F0undation is affering scholarships to undergraduate and graduate students in a college course directed toward the study of geophysics. The award is based primarily on academic competence, secondarily on financial need. For an application, which is due by March l, write to the Foundation at P.O. Box 3098.; Tulsa, Oklahoma 74101. The Delta Gamma Foun- dation o.ffers loans and scholarships to its un- dergraduate ,and graduate student sisters and children of sisters. For more information, write to: Delta Gamma Executive Offices; c-o Grants and Loans Chairman; 3250 Riverside Dr.; Colwnbus, Ohio 43221. ( The Albany Area Branch of the English Speaking Union is offering a $1,000 scholarship to nineteen-year-o,lds for study or personal development in an English Speaking Country during 1984. - Copies of the brochure describing the scholarship may be obtained l:)y calling Edgar Tompkins, President of the Albany Area Branch at the Albany Public Library 449-3380 or any member of the scholarship committee which is co-chaired by Dr. Raymond Vickers and Jerome Flax. The Business and Professional Worn en' 8 Navy Gold: Forged in a Tradition of Excellence Organization offers. grants to both undergraduate and graduate women. For more information and an application, write to the Organization at .2012 Massachusetts Avenue, NW; Washington, D.C. 20036. GRADUATb' OPPORTU N /TIES The Auxiliary to the American Osteopathic Association i·s offering scholarships .for the study of o s teo path i c m·e d i cine. Eligibility is based on both high scholastic standing and financial need. More in- formation and applications are- available in the Financial Aid Office. The Electrieal Women's Round Table, Inc., offers a $2,000 annual followship to a woman studying for a career in a field related to electrical energy. The award' is based on both scholarship and need. More information and ap- plications are available in the Financial Aid Office, The President's Cormnittee on Mental Retardation is of- fering a $5,000 scholarship for advanced study in the field of mental retardation. · To be eligible you must have a 3.0 GPA, show financial need, and be able to prove your par- ticipation in volunteer activities with mentally retarded persons. More information and ap- plications are available in the Financial Aid Office. Bell Laboratories offers fellowships and grants to women enttering a doctoral program in a science o.r engineering field. More in- formation and applications are availqble in the Financial Aid Office. Because the Officers wearing it are the best· in the world atwhattheydo ... they have to be It takes a special breed of aviator to meet the challenges of Naval Aviation. Strong, dedicated and professional men who can control the world's most sophisticated aircraft. There's no room over the oceans for pilots that are second-best. Beneath the surface pulses a unique environment few will -ever challenge. Only an uncompromised standard of excellence earns a submariner his dolphins. The Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officers wear them. To find out if you're qualified. see the Navy Represen- tative that will be in the Campus Center\ on February 3, or call collect (518) 472-4424 Navy Officers Get Responsibility FaSt. The Rotary Foundation of Rqtary International is offering. an exciting array of schlarships to use for study abora(i at all levels of education. Generally, tuition, room and board are paid by the Rotary Foundation. For more information, stop by the Financial Aid Office. The Financi-al Aid Office has information on scholarship aSsistance to minority students i!'l the graduate study of business, engineering, law and political science. CARE'J3R N.EWS The Foreign & Domestic Teachers Organization needs teacher applicants in all fields from Kindergarten through College to fill over six hundred teaching vacancies both at home and abroad. Should you wish additional information about our organization, you may write the Portland Oregon Better Business Bureau o:r the National Teachers' Placement '.t\gen cy, UNIVERSAL TE;AQHERS,. Box 5231, Por- tland, Or~gon 97208. CareerVVorkshops and Programs , Bank Training Program at Irving Trust, Thurs., Feb, 2, 7 p.m., Conf. Rm.. A, Carnegie Hall. Women in Engineering- What Is It Like?, Mon., Feb. 6, 4 p.m., Conf. Rm .. A, Carnegie H a 11. M a nu f a c t u r i n g Management-What Is It and How Can You Prepare For It?, Mon., Feb. 6, 7 p.m., Conf. Rin. A, Carnegie Hall. Internships, Mon., Feb. 6, 4 p.m., HU117. Careers in Government_.Public Affairs, Wed., Feb. 8, 7 p.m., Staruss. Internships, Thurs., Feb. 9, 6:30 p.m., HU117. Internships The New York State Energy Office: Two paid intern positions. in the Bureau of Industry, Commerce and Transportation under the Energy Advisory Service to Industry Program. More in- formation available in CDC. The Metropolitan Museum of Art: Offering summer in- ternships for juniors, seniors and recent graduates. Deadline for application is Feb. 27. Details available in CDC. The Assembly Summer Intern Program: Provides an opportunity for 10 to 20 students to work on research projects supervised by Assembly professional research staff. College students who have completed their junior year by June 1984 may apply. All ap- plicants must be New York State residents. The Stuniner Intern Program is very com- petitive. Surmner Interns have superior academic records, strong research and analytic skills, and a definite interest in and experience with public policy development as well as interest in state government. Application deadline is March 31, 1984. New York City Internship Program Interested in gaining career related experience this sum- mer? Consider applying for a New York City internship. Major busirlesses and non-profit organizations in New York City will be hiring swnrner interns .. Open to .qualified Juniors and Seniors. An interview is required. Piek up applications after January 30 in the CDC. Summer Internship in . Manufacturing Management Proctor & Gamble is seeking summer interns for plant , manufacturing management in New York and Pennsylvania. CE., EE and ME Juniors or Masters students who will be one year from degree com~ · pletion may apply;. A P & G representative will .interview candidates on February 8. Sign- ups for interviews will begin February 1, 8:30 in the CDC. Students must turn in.a resume or a resume interview form (available in the CDC) at the. time they sign up. HELP WANTED ~------------~---------~--- Student Wanted-Commission Sales-Imprinted sportswear to clubs, frats, etc. Please contact- -Paul Silverstein at 462-3838. Ma:ke your own hours. Live..:in 1 or sleep in or show up by 3: 45 a.m. to sit for 2 children 3 yrs. and 21 months old. May leave at 7 ;45 a.m. or stay until 1:30 p.m. Negotiable--Room & -board. Please contact· 371-2162 CH(ton Park area. Babysitter for 8 year old boy. Five days a week-afternoons. PiCk him up from St. John the Evangelist School (across from Union) at 2:30 p.m.until4:30 or 5:00 p.m. Please contact Mary Ellen Mangold after 5 p.m. or weekends at 374-6130. \ . - FINANCIAL AID Financial Aid applications . are now available for 1984-85. Please pick up yours at financial aid office in Becker Hall. (Remember yo:u must reapply evety _year.) F AF' s must be II:\ailed by March 1 so that all forms are received by the April 15 deadline. SPEAKERS Philosophy Departmen;t Colloquia presents: Science and Values, February 3, 1984. The speaker will be Michael Ruse, Museum of Comparative Zoology., Harvard University. The time is 3:30p.m. HU213. Is there Radical Dissimulation in Descartes' Meditations? ·Will be held· on February 9, 1984 at 4:00. The spea'ker will be Louis Loeb, UniversityofMichigan. HU213. Administrative and Engineering System Colloquium presents Con- struction Management-A Form of Contracting on February 2, 1984-3:45 p.m. in Room 312, Bailey Hall, Union College. The speaker will · be Philip Pastore, Manager of Business Development, Turner Cori.~ struction Company. PERS9NALS & CLASSIFIED ADS Must be typed and submitted to the ·concordy office or Box 2577 by 5 p.m. Tuesday. . Forms are avaDable at the Box Office CLV Febn Tax Bi ning,\ : H&R: Schene work, Schene Washin free, Contact 6106, Ol for mor buy lun .Febr' Women lstAnm Oance, Perez. munity Avenue p.m.-1 welcom $3:00.Ft 43'1-4037 Febn: Plannin Guideli Usage, Frank, SUNY A Studies Res ear Colloqu p.m. . SUNY~ Febr1 Lunchti Whattl Develo)J from W1 World, Huggin~ Soci'olo. c , '

February 3: \Lessening the Tax Bite: Incom.e Tax P·lan• ning,'' speaker-Lorraine Clute, H&R Block. Sponsored by Schenectady Women's Net- work, Friday, 12 noon, Schenectady YWCA, 44 Washington Avenue. Members free, non-members $1.00. Contact Miriam -Ballert-346- 6106,. or Phyllis Ochs~82-4500 for more inf()rmation. Bring or buy lunch. . February 4·: The Albany Women's Center presents-The 1st Annual Post-Groundhog Day Dance, featuring OJ Maria Perez. Lesbian & Gay Com· mUnity Center, 332 Hudson - Avenue, Albany. Saturday, 9 p.mA a.m. All women welcome. Suggested donation $3;00. For more information call 434-4037. .,.,. February 8: Language and Planning for Sexual Equality: Guidelines f~r NonwSexist Usage, speaker--Francine Frank, Lin:g.aistics Dept., SUNY A. Sponsored by Women's Studies Progr~m SUNY A, Research on Women Colloquium. Wed. 12:15-1:30 p.m. Humanities Lounge, SUNY at Albany. February ~2: Women's Lunchtime Colloquium Series- What ~We as Women in the Developed World Can Learn from Women in the Developing World,. speaker--Martha Huggins, Assistant Professor of Soci<ology, Union College, CONCORDIENSIS, Febr11ory 2, 1984 Page 13 CAMPUS NEWS sponsored by The President's Commission on the Status of Women at Union College. Wednesday, 12:30 p.m., Banquet Room, Carnegie Hall, Union College. Bring bag lunch· -coffee and tea provided. For more infonnation call 37~288. February 22: ''A Feminist Analysis of Bureaucracy,\ speaker--Kathy . Fergu~on, Political Science Dept., Stena College. Spo11sored l>Y Women's Studies Program SUNY A, Research on Women Colloquium, Wednesday, 12: 15· 1:30 p.m., Humanities Lounge, SUNY at Albany . --- February 23: Friendships; speaker--Janet Roehr. Spon- soredby Evening Branch·of the Women's Alliance of the Unitarian Church, 1221 Wendell Avenue. Thursday, 6:15 p.m. Dirmer and Program $4.50; Program only$1.00 (7:45). Call Jearine Docteur, 370•3902 for more information includ'ing child~care. If interestedin becoming part of the enthusiastic, wildly creative, stimulating IDOL staff-the meeting is on Monday at 8:00p.m.· 4th floor lounge. SWE MEETING.-·Monday 4:00p.m. Conferepce Room A. A representative from Proctor & Gamble will discuss career opportunities. Newman Club Meeting-- Monday, February 6, 8:00 p.m. Carnegie, 4th Floor Lounge. Bible St'Udy on Gospel of Matthew. Tllursday, February 9, 4:00 ·u.tn. Campus Ministry Office. Folk Group will meet and sing on Sunday . evening, February 5th at 6:30 in St. John the Evangelist Church to play for the 7:30 Mass that evening. Campus Ministry presents- Wednesday evening lecture series. February 8th David Scotchmer, a Ph.D student in .Anthropology at SUNY and a former missionary in Guatemala for thirteen years will speak on the role of the church in Central America. A film. ''America's In Transition'' will also be shown. 8:00p.m. 4th Flo~r Lounge of Carnegie. TERMS ABROAD Opportunities exist for study in Japan during the fall term of 1984-85. The program includes. living with a Japanese family, studying Japanese, and taking at least three additional courses related to East Asia. If you are interested in learning more about the program, please see Professor Thurston, SS213b. Junior · yeat at a German University--Applications will be received until January 31 for Union's German University Ex:change Program sponsored by the Federation of German· American clubs. ~andidates should be sophomores well on their way to a good wm·king knowledge of German. One, or possibly two students will be chosen to participate in the exchange program. For more inforiQation and appJ:icaUon forms, contact Professor Warde in. ffiJ 211. Modern Israel will be the focus of a special academic Slliiliner program sponsored by the State University ol New York. Only a limited number of students can be accepted, and early application is recom- mended. For specific details about the 1984 Academic Program in Israel, write Department of International Education, SUNY Summer Program in . .Israel, State University College, Oneonta, New York 13820, or telephone Office of International Education, 607-431-3369. The Shanghai Chinese Languag~ Programs (SCLP), sponsored by the Foundation for American-Chinese Cultural Exchanges, will be offered again at East China Normal University and Jiao tong University, both in Shanghai, People's Republic of China. More than 150 students from over 40 colleges and universities across the U.'S. have par- ticipated in SCLP since its in- ception in 1980. The two eight week.sununer (June 16through. August 8 with two weeks of optional post-program travel) programs are Language and Culture and Law, Trade and Language. The application deadline for Summer 1984 is March 1, 1984. Enrollment is limited. Financial aid is available. For further information and ap- plication materials, contact the Program Director at 212-678- 3943 or write to F ACCE, The Foundation for American- Chinese Cultural Exchanges, Box 227, 525 West 12Q Street, New York, New York 10027. F ACCE is an non-profit educational organization with offices at Columbia University in New York City. Union Terms Abroad will be holding its annual information meeting for all students who are considering a term abroad for the academic year 1984-85. The meeting will take place on Thursday, February 9 at 4:30 p.m. in SS 016. Prospective candidates will be able to meet with students and faculty who have participated in each of the tenns. Union also offers a fall term exchange program with the College of Ripon-st. John in York England. This program will have about Jive Union students take the place of a like number of York students who spendfalltermhere on campus. A special meeting for students interested in this term will take place on Monday, Feb. 13 at 4:30 p.m. in HU 116. · For more information, stop by the Terms Abroad office, HU 211. CLASSIF/EDS FOR SALE: Great car-1974 Buick Apollo, 70,000 miles. $800 negotiable, Blaupunkt am-fm cassette. Call Roberta 374-8769. FREE TRAINING PROVIDED-To babysit or be companion for disabled children. VOLUNTEERS NEEDED. Volunteer experience can go on N.Y. State employment records. Call Respite Project at 457-0442, 0443. WANTED: Creative, energetic individual to work consistently 2-4 hours per week, placing and filling posters on campus. Earn $500 or more each school year. Call!-800-243- 6679. Second Floor West Tuk-In Service Feb~ 12-14, 10:30 p.m.m 12:00 a.m. Watch for details! Must Sell: Due to tremendous Phone Bill, I am forced to sell Pto Kennex \Black Ace\ tennis racket. This mid-sized Graphite racket cost $140.00 brand new. Will sell for $80.00 (negotiable). Call quickly before phone is disconnected-Please! X6613 ask for George. Any person interested in playing diplomacy on the weekends please contact Scott at Box 1227. WANTED: a used FORTRAN 77 green .soft cover text. Reasonable. Please Call Sharon at 370-6567. UCGA is sponsoring an AD & D Tournament on Feb. 17 & 18. Call 6944. WE ARE SPENDING YOUR MONEY AND YOU DON'T CARE! ! ! Come to the meetings on Thursday at 4:30 in Strauss and find out what's going on. Show the world how talented you are. Perform in the first annual UNION TALENT SHOW .on Feb. 18 at i9: 00 in Alumni. Fill out a form· and return to Box 2548. PERSONALS To Kimmy and Beastly Baba 1, Ilove you guys!! You couldn't have made this year any bet- ter! ! Love, Lester Karen Liberman and Rachel Siegel, We didn't do anything this week, but don't push your luck! J.C. and L.S. Gigi, Those aren't returnable. J.C. 'fo my favorite twelve year old \junior\ Freshman: Making ,decisions is tough, but waiting for answers is tougher. Sent with love from a friend. To the oldest MUTANT: Happy Birthday and get a GRIP! -love, two-thirds Sue R., Happy 22! love 700 South C.L.,J.T., D.G., and SP-Way to be SENIORS!! Second floor west is proud to present the new Le Geno technicolor collection; in- cluding Wayne, N.J., The Communist Threat iu the Western World; and Untitled B~ Accident. The wizardry lives on! SueR., Waytogeta \grip\ on the situation last Friday night ! ! ! ! ! Love, your chaperones Lenny and Linettes-'-You should all be professional dancers. Where were you Dave? Sorry guys, I won't be out this weekend-tests, you know. Sher- You promised me Ed wouldn't be there! J.M., \You have no ... life.\ -The late-nite caller Roses are red, Violets are Blue, You're my secret sister, Dee, and this poem is for you. You collect aU our money and pay all our bills, and have a bright light by your window sill. You're a very special person, not just okay, so I'm wishing you a very nice day! HEY BITCH ... You are definitely the MOST fun person to-live, sing, eat and laugh with! I love you. Your B&J's partner.

IDOL J,he Rock-N-~Roll Pizza Pub BAHAMAS SPRING BREAK from.$345 is now accepting your creative Proudly Presents Submarine Sandwiches for your enjoyment Mixed S2.25 Includes Round Trip Air. Transfer, Seven Nights Ac<:om- modetion: Welcome Rum Swizzle, One Hour Rum Swizzle Pt!rty, Canvas Travel &g, Three Hour Cruise wfTwo Hour UnJ'imited Rum Punch, Beach ?arty w!Lunch, AU TaJCes. Ham S2.25 -poetry Turkey $2.50 -short stories Roast s.ccf S2.50 RO liiDPEN CHARGES Tuna $2.50 -essays ltalicHiMixcd S2.25 .. -photography '· {8 cut) Large Cheese -Piua ..••••.••.••. $4.85 FORT LAUDERDA.LE SPRING BREAK adrawing -gra.phics (6 cut) Small Cheese 'Pizza .•••..••..•. $3.75 SUBMIT: Writing to Box 2526 w/name & box no. Pepperoni Sausage X Cheese . Mushroom Peppers ·Onions 8 cut Sl.OO Sl.OO $i.OO $.75 $.75 $.75 6 cut $ .75 $.75 $ .75 $.50 $,50 $.50 . from $135 Includes seven nights et prime location, welc;ome party w/f!e~ beer. ·complimentary travel bltg . AMTRAK on~y $155. Vi sua I art··description w/name, phone, box no. to Box 2526 Large Chocolate Chip Cookies $.50 AIR ONLY $198 COLLEGE REP., NEEDED-- EARN FREE TRIP Deadline: March 14 FREE DELIVERY Open 7 days a week at l: 30 p.m. GREENWICH TRAVEL CENT.E·R 1·800·243·3858 .... Call 370-6060 r· ~ Corner Carrie & Hattie Sf. U ( 1 block north of Nott St. Entrance n toUnionCollege) U Union College *WINTER SPECIALS* n Genny Cream Nites .' U drafts 25¢ ~ t ~ pitchers $1.50 Bud & Miller Lite our \famous\ Pitchers $2.00 ~ chili soe off all n dogs- SO<: mixed drinks U L pluH: fre::ool\\ p~us f:e\sn:cks J ff»>X)IID(,~\'!(>::ec:>~~< ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I ~ I I - Guidelines for Dutchman's ~ ~ Night Reservations ~ ' Reservations for Dutchman's N•ight will only ~ ~- .. be accepted at the Pizza Pub during normal ~.tf. ~ business hours Monday through Thursday. ~ ~ • When making reservations all persons or meal ~ ~ cards must be present. This is to insure proper • ~ reservation taking. ~ ~~- • The party must be booked all at once, this will ~ x. insure a better dining atmosphere. We cannot -- M v ~ accept ''maybe\ reservations. ~ ff.. 'Cash reservations are welcome. Those who will ~ ~ be paying for dinner, please pay at the door. I ~ • A person must bring his-her 10, meal card and g B entry ticket at Dutchman;s Night. If these are i ~ t t tb td z a I)Q presen 1 a person canno e sea e • s 1 • Anyone caught using another individual's I 0; ~ ~.'- meal card or dinner ticket will be turned over to ~ ~ the director of food service. Mea I card and I D ~ • will be taken. 1(~_~ ~ • Because of a large dining room turnover, we 1 ~· ask that you be prompt for dinner. This will ~ insure an easy turnover, and no waiting for I ;v. people at later seatings. 1.( S Management of the Dutch Hollow Pub ~ Q -! s t ,.._ SI>:X':X.X>Z@-!<1'~~~~~..<~* ~ I ' -.:>NC~~-1 ~~-~~-- A WEEJts VACA':riON FOR 2 IN :FLORIDA· lndudin~ ai:r.fare, acco:mmodati.ans,dinn.er with iJ'erry:S pamnt!l IDJd. a tour of Dis:n.ey world -with :5:m\s l.llldle tst.PRIZ.E A Free cone per week f.OT 1 ~al' 2::5 SECOND 'PtUZES EJO 'I'HlllD 1?lllZES A:Ben{'?'lfet\:r'Y's T -shirt 'A Ben&<JE'l\'.l'\y'\5 l)rowme Special Gift Cerillica:t.e. r~--~---~--~~--~~~-~---~-~--~; 1 . THE O~CJJ\1. E:N'TR.Y8J.A:NK r : How I Licl\. W:inl:er 'With ben~~erry'S .... (rnZ5hl1!\Jsarles~ I 1 I l 1 I I I NL\:lv1E ADDREss I ' PHONE. ~, ...... J...... I C\J\N ~T~£ ! Entries must he depoa'i'\ed by February lS t:h. ;11:. any Sen&Jerrys, A'.\! e:rtb-:ies .be:c>:rne i:he' Jll'ope~tj of Ben &;:rerry>s ~ E'ilt:r1es are j~d on the ba~is o£ 'hu:r.r:lOr a:nd ori.girral-ity . ooe L.. ~ --- ~ ~- ~ - - ........ .-. ..... - __, ..... -- - - -- - - --- - ~ ..... ......_ -- .. , L . _Vf'PE'R UNION ST., SCHE~CTADY_ ~\'-oWl . j Nt Ther perf-or · trackst Mann Friday finish i Millros Square 6:12.4 <i (The A Nation1 held of Am eric walker Ol --•·\· I.. QJ . .c 1:, .. QJ ., . \''. o .. a:: ' . QJ c: c: 0 co > .c 0 .... 0 ..c:: a.. ·w Ec B The l SwimT having The tea Many turned i -In a Sage, triumpl First pl turnedi Calif ant Freed, Robin : team al very st1 TravE team , strong turned forman final sc wick's medley Califan1 Pearl t hope to Divisi<J pionshiJ [

CONCORIJH~'NSIS. Fehruurr 2. 198.J Page 15 NeW Records ·In Track By DIU Sports Staff There were ·several fine· perf<lrmances by Union · tracl\sterf) this weekend. Jim Mann be.gan the weekend Friday night with a fifth .place finish in the mile walk at the Millrose Games at Mffiiison Square Garden. His time of 6:12.4 qualifies him for the TAC (The Athletic Congress) Indoor Nationals later in February. He held off a strong challenge by America's premier 50 kilometer walker over the last two laps. At the Cardinal Classic meet at Plattsburgh State Scott RetnHlard got .Saturday mor- ning -off to a flying start in the 35 pound weight throw with his second schbolt·eeord in as many weeks. Scott fell just shy of 50 feet with a throw of 49 feet 11 1 /~ inches. Gigi Giordano al'so produced school records in both the long and .triple jumps. The third jump of the trials in bottt events proved to be the charm for her. Also of note are Jenny Snover's first place in the high jump and Gary Wenner's first place in the pole vault. Gary was a repeat winner from 1983 and 1982. . The men· placed 7th out of 11 teams with 36 points and the women placed 3rd of 6 with 37 points. The team cornp.etes this Sunday in another nondual meet at the Union fieldhouse in the OTR·AT AC meet. The team is now gearing Up for the cham- pionship seaSqn starting with the RPI Invy in three weeks. With most of the team recovered from injuries-, we - should expect big things from thern. At'hlete of the Week 01 I.. w ..Q c. (i) Ul• o. IY .. <ll c c 0 Ill > ..Q 0 - 0 ..c a.. Scott Remillard By DREW HURLEY Sports Staff Dutchmen tracksters Gigi Giordano and Scott Remillard are co-athletes. of the week for their recent record breaking performances in the Cardinal Classic at the Plattsburgh State University Feildhouse. Freshman standout Gigi Giordano put her name in the Union College record books as she finished first in the triple jump with a record breaking leap of 28'2%\ and finished fourth in the long jump with ... >~·'. ;;w another school record of-4.591J1, · \ 'f With these two jumps Ms .. Giordano led the Dutchmen track team to a third place finish in the Cardinal Classic. Gigi is a freshman from Clinton, CT where she attended the Morgan School. Sophomore Scott Remillard ~ also had an outstanding meet at the Cardinal Classic. He placed .second in the 35~lb. weight throw. His throw of 49-11.5 broke his old Union record, which he set only last w~ek, by 1 '9%\. Scott also competed in the shotput and finished fourth ·women Swimmers Edge RPI; Stand 2-1 By SPORTS STAFF The Union College Women's Swim Team, in its first year is having a successful beginning. The team record stands a:t 2-1. Many women have already turned in superb performances. -In a meet against Russel Sage, the Union women triumphed by a score of 73-48. First place performances were turned in by Sally Carey, Karen Califano, Betsy Boutwell, Lisa Freed, J aymie Ridless and Robin King. The rest of. the team also helped to produce a very strong meet. · Traveling to Hartwick, the team was up against · very strong competition, but still turned in a good overall per- formance. Unfortunately, the final score was 55-38 in Hart- wick's favor. The 200 yard medley relay team of Freed., Califano, King, and Sharon Pearl took second place, and hope to qualify for the N.Y.S: Division III State Cham- pionship. The meet produced -FINANCIAL- .-...AID-- ·-fORMS- are now available • in Becker Hall Deadline: March 1st several otner fine per- formances. In the 100 yard Breaststroke, Califano took first place. There were many second place finishes: Sharon Pearl in the 50 yard and 100 · yard freestyle events a-s well as the 100 yard individual medley, Kim Biggs in the 100 yard Breaststroke, and Lisa Freed in the 100 yard Backstroke. Freed's -time qualified her in that event for the State Meet in February. Lynn Hano also took a second place in the grueling 1000 yard Freestyle event. Fjnally on Saturday the team swam an exhibition meet against RPI. Union won the · meet, but the scheduled dual meet is next Wednesday. The· team shows great depth in Carol Urfer, Megan Lutzker, Elissa Adler, Anne Marie Loftus, and Katja Bock. The last home meet is this Saturday against Plattsburgh State at 1 p.m. Come and cheer on the newest team at Union-\ 'the Women's Swim Team. *SUPPORT* *UNIO.N* *SPORTS* ~ with a throw of 44-1%. Scott is a sophomore from East Syracuse where he attended East Syracuse High School. Scott set the school's and the state's discus record. Best of luck to Scott and Gigi in future com- petition. .~. c 1: 0 Ill > ..0 0 0 .t: a. ·Men's Swimming Team 0-4 BY MIKE. FOX Sports Staff Last Thursday the men's and women's swim team traveled to Hartwick College. Unfor- tupately, neither squad returned victorious. There were, of course, bright moments on both teams. For the men, wirmers were Andy CrosSley (50 Free, 100 Free), Kyle Cotugno (100 Fly) and Brian Chabot (100 Breast). Second place finishes were scored by the 400IM relay team (Jacobs, Chabot, Millet, and Fox), Kyle Cotugno (200IM), Steve Jacobs (100 Back) and · Dave Weick (100 Breast). The men~s final score was Union 42, Hartwick 52. As for the women, tqey've got their own article now-they can tell their own story .•. Norwich College was the latest to dunk the swimming Dutchmen, this time 54 to 41. A close meet, as has become common, with Union just not having that extra boost to win. Not to say they don't give it their best; both Andy Crossley (200IM, . 200 Back) and Kyle Cotu,gilo (200 Free, 200 Fly) won twice with Brian Cha6ot (22 Breast) contributing a win as welL The 400IM relay (Jacobs, Chabot, Millet and Major) placed second as did Mike Millet (200 Fly). The mens' record is now. 0-4 but with the prospect of wins in the future as they face Vassar, Plattsburg, RPI and Utica in the next two weeks. SPORTS ••• Dufehmen hoops Sports Talk WithSCO'FT WYKOFF Sports Staff Many fans in the world of sports truly feel that college basketball is the most ex:citing of aU spectator sports. Often one or two standout players can both dominate a game andturn an entire program's fortunes around When they step onto the court. One year ago the Union Dutchmen basketball team: was 13-2 after 15 contests. Local sports pages ran columns on the team, individual players and the squad's chances for post season play. After 15 contests the 1983-84 rounballers find themselves one game below .500 with little or no local newspring beyond the typical pre-game story and morning after recap. Though the picture is not as bright as one year ago, this squad's story deserves mention and even explanation. Corning into this Winter's campaign, 11th year Dutchman Coach Bill Scanlon knew that his squad would have a tough road to a return engagement in the NCAA tourney. Though he was returning six players from the NCAA team, he knew that he had to find a guard to replace Joe Clinton and a forward to take the place of Jeff Feigelson. Clinton ran the show for Union last year as he averaged close to 15 points a game while dishing out four assists a con- test in the process.. The num- bers are impressive hut don't come close to . showing the importance of his overall contributions to the team's good fortune. Feigelson never could boast the numbers that Clinton accumulated but played tough on the defense and was often called upon to stop the op- position's best big men. With a bit of work, Scanlon felt that he had the horses that could step in to fill the big shoes left !>Y these two graduates of one year ago. The two returning standouts from one year ago were guard Joe Wood and Ken D'Orazio. Wood led last year's team in scoring, getting clos~:t to 20 points a game while D'Orazio added 16 points from the for- ward position. Scanlon knew he could count . on these two to produce in the '83-'84 season. He also knew that support players would have to stll'face from the roster of both veterans and rookies. Early in the season transfer Pete Torncello was called upon to play at the point guard position held down by Clinton for the past four seasons. Torncello seemed to be more suited as a shooter than a playmaker and Scanlon called on Jack Barry to step in at the point .. Early on Barry was able to work the ball to Wood and get it inside to D'Orazio but unable to pose much of any offensive threat of his own. Barry worked hard and began to fit the mold of a double threat guard in the Clinton mold. But ·Barry fell to · injury and Scanlon was right back where he was way back in· the fall. Coach Scanlon had been burned by a key injury, much like the one to Barry, way back in the fall even before the season started when Jim Doherty was sidelined for the season with a knee injury. Doherty was a key player in last year's play-off team and Scanlon will be tbe first one to admit that the Dutchmen sorely miss his presence. Jim did it all last year and most importantly played tough defense while also working the ball to Wood and D'Orazio in scoring position. When looking for reasons for the turnaround, one also can't overlook the fact that the Dutchmen aren't playing the same tough defense of one year ago. Last year Union could score a bucket, drop back and shut down the opposition. This year's edition stops the op- position at the defensive end on occasion but with far less frequency than last year. This could be one reason the Dut- chmen have trouble opening up big leads. One has to think Union misses the tough defense that was a trademark of Jeff Feigelson during his three-year career in Schenectady. It all comes down to the fact that this year's squad lacks the chemistry that made last year's garnet hoop edition so very tough. Not taking anything away from the talent on this year's team, but they just haven't jelled into the unit that went a long way last year. Frustrating yes, but since the pressure is gone it should be a lot more fun playing the spoiler. AnENTION SPRING ATHLETES Physicals will be given on Sunday, February 12 in the training room of Achilles Rink. The times are as follows: Women's Lacrosse Softball Track Tennis Men's Lacrosse Baseball .. 7:00 7: 15. 7:30 7:45 8:00 8:15 Pre-physicals will be given in the training room the week of February 6·10 from 9-11:30 a.m. and l-2p.m. There will be a general team meeting for all students interested in .trying out for the Varsity Baseball team, Tues., Feb. 7 at a p.m., Alumni Gym, Block U Room.AII varsity baseball players and anyone interested in trying out for the team who has not had a physical should see Tom Fashover,.the trainer. Feb. 6-Feb. 10.

tO c: ,__ 0 ::,:. <f) ::,:. c: tO ,__ lJ_ > .c E 0 .s:::. Q Pa~e 16 ( '(),\'( '()RIJII:',V.S'I.\: Fehnuu:r 2, /98.J . . . Big Win for 4th Place Dutchmen Hockey Wins Battle Over Cadets By A.W. Sports Staff The Dutchmen started their week off slowly, losing a heart- breakerto Middlebury in OT, 3- 2, but then they exploded for seventeen goals in their next two games, beating Hamilton and, more notably, Norwich by margins of 8-4 and 94). This leaves Union at7-4-1 in Division II play, fourth place in the western division. Lose-ino.t. The Middlebury game had several twists and turns to it. The Panthers dominated the first period, as the puck stayed in the Union :end for most of the stanza. The majority of Union's shots were long range slap shots which were hardly effective, but the Dutchmen defense was able to hold Middlebury scoreless. The Panthers went on the board first nonetheless, as center Scott Joslin poked it in one minute into the second period. Union then tied it at one, as Jamie 'Knight matched his former Deerfield linemate with a goal of his own, a sei!ond- effort, diving sweep of tiie puck in front of the net. Union had the momentum .for the rest of the second period, but · missed several \good scoring op- portunities. This continued into the third period until Duane Joyce, taking a Gill Egan pass, moved in from the point and fired a .slap shot past goalie Ken Pucker ( serioi!Sly, that's his name). The way Union was playing at this point, it seemed as though they would be able to mark this game in the . win column, now leading 2-1. But a Middlebury goal on a pass from behind the net not only tied the score, but again turned the momentlllli back tQ the Panthers. It was now their turn to miss OJT portunities, which is exactly what t~ey did for the rest .__of regulation play. As it is with most overtimes in hockey,theteam that squanders their chances early are doomed. Union was all over the ice for the first six minutes, but a vicious hit on Gill Egan turned the game around again for the Panthers, and with 1:52 remaining, the puck was .put in under Bart Brookes'pads. Beat Hamilton In their next game, Union got their frustrations out against a Hamilton team that is better than their sub-.500 record shows, as they have beaten several good teams. Not only was the Middlebury loss on their heads, but Union's loss to Hamilton last year, which knocked them out of the playoffs, added a revenge factor t() this game. Union started slowly in this game, trailing 1-o at one point, but they started cranking it up _.., ~ The Garnet five got back on track fues. nite defeating Binghamton 74 to ,59. Union faces nationally ranked Hamii'ton tonite at Memorial field house. ,---------Sports Happenings----------, Feb. 2-9 Varsity HOckey Men's Basketball J.V. Hockey J.V. Men's Basketball Women's Basketba II Men's Swimming Women's Swimming Feb. 4 at Merrimack Feb. 7 Williams Feb. 2 Hamilton Feb. 4 Kings Point Feb. B Hartwick Feb. 3 Canterbury Feb. 7 New Prep Feb. 3 at Albany St. Feb. 4SCCC Feb. 8 RPI Feb. 2 RPI Feb .. 6 New Paltz Feb. 8 at Oneonta Feb. 4 Plattsburgh Feb. 8 at RPI Feb.BatRPI 7:30 7:30. 8:00 8:00 8:00 3:00. 3:30. 8:00 6:00 6:00 6:00 7:00 7:00 1:00 4:00 4:00. ~------------SCOREBOARD------------_, HOCKEY (7·4·1) (9·7·loverall) Middlebury 3 Union 8 Union 9 MEN'S BA.Si< ETBALL (8·8) Union 2 {OT) Hamilton4, Norwich6 Hobart 69 Ro('\hP<;tf'r ~1 Union 74 :t: 'i: Union 65 .._ IJnion 7B Hartwick 51 Norwi( h ~4 Union 73 HartWICk 55 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (6-3) MEN'SSW:IMMING (0 4) WOMEN'S SWIMMING C7 l) MEN'S TRACK ( 1 JJ WOMEN'S TRACK (1 3) Union62 ~ Binghamton 59 ..... fO Middlebury 43 ~ .0 Union 42 .E Union 41 g 0. Russell Sage 48 Unior.~38 in the second period. Curt Cole score,:t on a breakaway, and after Hamilton tied it up for the last time, three goals-two Mike Rozzi goals sandwiching a Knight tally-upped the score to 5-2 going into the third. This period helped Egan and Joe Caruso pile up their leading point . totals, Gill getting two goals, while Joe settled for one, rounding out Union's eight goal performance. Dump Cadets The Norwich game was the Dutchmen ''game ofthe week,'' if not the game of the year. The first period was by no means a reflection of the whole game though, as both teams played chippy, sloppy hockey. Norwich bmke out and dumped two goals in the net before Sean Wills' first of the year cut the lead to 2- 1. In the second· period Union tied the score at three after being down 3-1, with goals by Knight and Rozzi. Soph.Curt Cole 00·12·22){L), steady T.J. Rvan (R) and the rest of the 7-4-1 S.Kating Dutchmen wi II be back in a eN on Sat. nite at Merrimack. Then came the wild third period in which nine goals were scored. Union scored three in the first five minutes, with Roz.zi, Caruso and Todd Flanigan doing the honors. Frank Simonetti, the Oadets' Pl'emier defenseman, sparked a comeback for Norwich, scoring a goal to make. it 6-4. Caruso's second of the night made it 7-4, but it took Norwich all of five seconds to get one . hack, as Mark Roberto scored on a slapshot to make. it 7-5 (an apparent ECAC Div. II record for shortest time elapsed bet- ween goals). Roberto then scoredhisthirdofthe night, and before coach Charlie Morrison could say \panic'' it was 7-6. Images of the 5-4 Army loss must have been dancing in the Dutchmen's heads, a game in which Union allowed three goals in the final minutes for the loss. · · ''I was definitely thinking about that (Army) game while I was on the ice for those final minutes,\ recalled sophomore Curt Cole. \Especially since Norwich has been the best Division II team we've played.\ But it was Cole himself who made sure that Union wouldn't make the same mistake twice, as his second breakaway goal in two games ensured a Dutchman victory. \I couldn't believe how much ice I had in front of me,\ explained Cole. \This was a crucial game for us-it felt really good to win this one. It also helps our playoff situation · a great deaL\ \ Blue Lines Wayne McDougall was in net ' for the first time in three weeks for the Dutchmen, and had a credible performance, to say the least. He had been out ill . . . · Mike Rozzi has had two 2,goal games .in a row. Not to take anything away from Mike's perfomi.ance, but playing with Egan and Cole does have cer· tain advantages -. . . Tormny Hodgins shoulder is hurting him, but his status will be determined on a day-to-day basis ... Union's next gam() is away against always tough Merrimack College thi~ weekend ... Gill Egan and Joe Caruso lead the Dutchmen in scoring with 31. and 28 poinbl respectively. Interestingly, the duo also lead the team in penalty minutes with Caruso.' s 32 miri. edging and Egan's 31 min . . . Junior· center :Bill Wernecke, who.is sidelined with a knee injury suffered against Geneseo, was the . recipient c.f the Ned C, Dukhart Award, which is given to the varsity hockey player with the highest G.P.A. for fall tenn. The aw~rd was presented prior to Friday's Hamilton gam,e Congratulations to Bill!! Leading Scorers) {through 1/30) G A P Egan 18 13 31 Caruso 14 14 28 Cole lO 12 22 Hodgins 6 13 19 Mackenzie 2 16 18 Hoop Drops Two on Road ByB.I. Sports Staff The Dutchmen basket ball squad continued its season-long slide last weekend dropping two road games, 69-55 to Hobart, and 63-62 to Rochester. The Dutchmen have now lost six of eight since returning from Christmas, and have seen their record drop below .500 for the first time at 7-8. Lose to Statesmen Union took two different roads to defeat on its western trip. At Hobart,. the Dutchmen spotted the Statesmen a fifteen~ point halftime lead ( 43-28) before waking up. Union stormed back in the second half, thanks to the shooting of Ken D'Orazio (28 points) and Joe W(}od (20 points) to go along with a strong defensive effort. With two minutes to play, Union had cut the lead to two, 61-59, but could get no closer as Hobart's clutch foul-$hooting iced the victory. Stung by Yellowjackets For the first 30 minutes against Rochester on Saturday night, the Dutchmen seemed to have finally found the winning formula as they held a com- manding 56-45 lead with just over nine minutes left in the The Dutchwomen swim team defeated RPI in an exhibition meet Sat. The swim team's last home meet is Sat. against Plattsburgh at 1 p.m. See article page 15 . . \- contest. But again, as has been the case aU season, Union suffered a critical lapse allowing Rochester to ,.SC()re eight unanswered points and seeing the lead shrink to 56..,53~ From that point, Rochester was able to use -momentum and ihe home etowd to squeeze out the one-point win. Rochester scored after gaining possession of a loose ball \Yith thirty seconds to play. Union's two attempts with time expiring did not fall. D'Orazio again led the- Dut<Ch- men with 27 points while Wood chipped in with 15. Union is at home for three games this week; hosting Binghamton last Tuesday, Hamilton . tonight, and Kings Point on Saturday. c: rtJ .c: Ill ID u .:.:. .~ a! :>. .Q E 0 .c: a. - ex - DirE pro I St The proce Wom' eligib tivity Chain Comr Squir1 that Grou) club. the 1 stqtm funds cepte· quest grout: ment. Ther Suppt valua recog activ1 existE the SJ hour~ indiv WOnlE that cam}: that CaDlJ: open conm learn grou: distil Worn to be addrc cam I basic Th« at ti:J take~ befor can f her 1 frien1 cann Also, will! to sa have atten All discu room will' sugg1 to d<

ro c .... 0 .:::£ <f) .:::£ c ro .... lL >- .Q 0 - 0 .c Q. U J.\(ORJ>IF.\'/•;/!), Fehruwy l, /()8-J SPORTS .... Big Win for 4th Place Dutchmen Hockey Wins Battle Over Cadets By A.W. Sports Staff The Dutchmen started their week off slowly, losing a heart- breaker to Middlebury in OT, 3-· 2, but then they exploded for seventeen goals in their next two games, beating Hamilton and, more notably, Norwich by margins of 6-4 and 9~. This leaves Union at 7-4-1 in Division II play, fourth place in the western divisioH. Lose in o.t. The Middlebury game had several twists and turns to it. The Panthers dominated the first period, as the puck stayed in the Union end far most of the stanza. The majority of Union's shots were long range slap shots which were hardly effective, but the Dutchmen defense was able to hold Middlebury scoreless. The Panthers went on the board first nonetheless, as center Scott Joslin poked it in one minute into the second period. Union then tied it at one, as Jamie 'Knight matched his former Deerfield linemate with a goal of his own, a se€ond- effort, diving sweep of the puck in front ofthe net. Union had the momentum for the rest of the second period, but missed several ··good scoring op- portunities. This continued into the third period until Duane Joyce, taking a Gill Egan pass, moved in from the point and fired a slap sllet past goalie Ken Pucker (seri{)usly, that's his name). The way Union was playing at this point, it seemed as though they would be able to mark this game in the win column, now leading 2-1. But a Middlebury goal on a pass from behind the net not only tied the score, but again turned the momeliltum back to the Panthers. It was now their turn to miss op- portunities, which is exactly what they did for the rest of regulation play. As it is with most overtirnes in hockey,theteam that squanders their chances early are doomed. Union was all over the ice for the first six minutes, but a vicious hit on Gill Egan turned the game around again for the Panthers, and with 1: 52 remaining, the puck was put in under Bart Brookes'pads. Beat Hamil1on In their next game, Union got their frustrations out against a Hamilton team that is better than their sub-.500 record shows, as they have beaten several good teams. Not only was the Middlebury loss on their heads, but Union's loss to Hamilton last year, which knocked them out of the playoffs, added a revenge factor to this game. Union started slowly in this game, trailing 1-o at one point, but they started cranking it up The Garnet five got back on track Tues. nite defeating Binghamton 74 to 59. Union faces nationally ranked Hamilton tonite at Memorial field house. ..---------Sports Happenings--------, Feb. 2-9 Varsity Hockey Men's Basketball J.V. Hockey J .V Men's Basketball Women's Basketball Men's sw,mming Women's Swimming Feb. 4atMerrimack Feb. 7 Williams Feb. 2 Hamilton Feb. 4 Kings Point Feb. 8 Hartwick Feb. 3 CanterblJ ry Feb. 7 Nt'!W Prep Feb. 3 at Albany St. Feb. 4 SCCC Feb. 8 R PI Feb.2RPI Feb. 6New Paltz Feb. 8 at Oneonta Feb. 4 Plattsbwrgh Feb. 8 at R PI Feb.BatRPI 7·30 7:30 8:00 8:00 8:00 3:00 3:30 8:00 6:00 6:00 6:00 7:0() 7:00 1 : 0() 4:00 4:00 r------------------------SCOREBOARo------------------------~ HOCKEY (7 4 1 l (9 7 1 overall) M1ddlebury 3 Union B Union 9 H•1b-1rt !.9 Pnrhp<;frr A'l Union 74 MEN'S BASKETBALL 18 Ill Union 2 (0T) Hamilton4 Norwich 6 Union6S Union 62 Binghamton 59 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL {6·3) lJn,on 78 Middlebury 43 MI:;N ~ :,VVtMMIN(;, \U 4! Union 42 - .... .... L CL> ~ .... ro (L >- .0 0 .,_ Hilrtw,tk 52 NOYWICh 54 Union 41 ·o Un1on 73 Hartw,tk SS WOMEN'S SWIMMING 0 1 l MEN'S TRACK C I 3l WOMEN'S TRACK (1 3) .t: Q. Rt:Jssei1Sage48 Union 38 in the second period. Curt Cole scored on a breakaway, and after Hamilton tied it up for the last time, three goals-twe Mike Rozzi goals sandwiching a Knight tally-upped the score to 5-2 going into the third. This period helped Egan and Joe Caruso pile up thek leading point totals, Gill getting two goals, while Joe settled for one, rounding out Union's eight goal performance. Dump Cadets The Norwich game was the Dutchmen \game of the week,\ if not the game of the year. The first period was by no means a reflection of the whole game though, as both teams played chippy, sloppy hockey. Norwich broke out and dumped two goals in the net before Sean Wills' first of the year cut the lead to 2- 1. In the second period Union tied the score at three after ooing down 3-1, with goals by Knight and Rozzi. Soph. Curt Cole ( 1 0·12·22) ( L), steady T .J. Ryar:1 ( R) and the rest of the 7·4·1 Skating Dutchmen will be back in action Sat. nite at Merrimack. Then came the wild third period in which nine goals were scared. Union scored three in the first five minutes, with Rozzi, Caruso and Todd Flanigan doing the honors. Frank Simonetti, the Oadets' premier defenseman, sparked a comeback for Norwich, scoring a goal to make. it 6-4. Caruso's second of the night made it 7-4, but it took Norwich all of five seconds to get one back, as Mark Roberto scored on a slapshot to make it 7-5 (an apparent ECAC Div. II record for shortest time elapsed bet- ween goals). Roberto then scored his third of the night, and before coach Charlie Morrison could say \panic\ it was 7-6. Images of the 5-4 Army loss must have been dancing in the Dutchmen's heads, a game in which Union allowed three gaals in the final minutes for the loss. ''I was definitely thinking about that (Army) game while I was on the ice for those final minutes,\ recalled sophomore Curt Cole. \Especially since Norwich has been the best Division II team we've played.\ But it was Cole himself who made sure that Union wouldn't make the same mistake twice, as his second breakaway goal in two games ensured a Dutchman victory. \I couldn't believe how much ice I had in front of me,\ explained Cole. \This was a crucial game for us-it felt really good to win this one. It also helps our playoff situation · a great deal.\ Blue Lines Wayne McDougall was in net for the first time in three weeks for the Dutchmen, and had a credible performance, to say the least. He had been out ill ... Mike Rozzi has had two 2-goal games in a row. Not to take anything awa;y from Mike's performance, but playing with Egan and Cole does have cer- tain advantages . . . Tommy Hodgins shoulder is hurting him, but his status will be determined on a day-to-day basis ... Union's next game is away against always t()ugh Merrimack College this weekend ... Gill Egan and Joe Caruso lead the Dutchmen in scoring with 31 and 26 points respectively. Interestingly, the duo also lead the team in penalty minutes with Caruso's 32 min. edging and Egan's 31 min . . . Junior ·center Bill Wernecke, who is sidelined with a knee injury suffered against Geneseo, was the recipient of the Ned C. Dukhart Award, which is given to the varsity hockey player with the highest G.P.A. for fall term. The award was presented prior to Friday's Hamilton game Congratulations to Bill!! Leading Scorer5) {through 1/30) G A P Egan 18 13 31 Caruso 14 14 28 Cole 10 12 22 Hodgin5 6 13 19 Mackenzie 2 16 18 Hoop Drops Two on Road By B.I. Sports Staff The Dutchmen basketball squad continued its season-long slide last weekend dropping two road games, 69-55 to Hobart, and 63~2 to Rochester. The Dutchmen have now lost six of eight since returning from Christmas, and have seen their record drop below .500 for the first time at 7-8. Lose to Statesmen Union took two different roads to defeat on its western trip. At Hobart, the Dutchmen spotted the Statesmen a fifteen- point halftime lead ( 43-28) before waking up. Union .stormed back in tile second half, thanks to the shooting of Ken D'Orazio (28 points) and Joe Wood (20 points) to go along with a strong defensive effort. With two minutes to play, Union had cut the lead to two, 61-59, but could get no closer as Hobart's clutch foul-shooting iced the victory. Stung by Yellowjackets For the first 30 minutes against Rochester on Saturday night, the Dutchmen seemed to have finally found the winning formula as they held a com- manding 56-45 lead with just over nine minutes left in the The Dutchwomen swim team defeated R PI in an exhibition meet Sat. The swim team's last home meet is Sat. against Plattsburgh at 1 p.m. See arlic.le page 15 contest. But again, as has been the case all season, Union suffered a critical lapse allowing Rochester to score eight unanswered points and seeing the lead shrink to 56-53. From that point, Rochester was able to use momentum and the home crowd to squeeze out the one-point win. Rochester scored after gaining possession of a loose ball with thirty seconds to play. Union's two attempts with time expiring did not fall. D'Orazio again led the Dutch- men with 27 points while Wood chipped in with 15. Union is at home for three games this week, hosting Binghamton last Tuesday, Hamilton tonight, and Kings Point on Saturday. c 10 ..c 10 10 u .:::£ u 0:: >- .0 0 +- 0 ..c c. - ex Din pro I St ThE proce Worn eligib tivity Chair Com1 Squir that Grou] club. the statu: funds cepte quest grOUJ ment The1 Supp1 valu~ reco~ activ exist1 the SJ hour1 indh WOffil that cam I that CaiDI open comr lear11 grou disti Worn to b< addr1 camt basic Tb at tl take1 befo1 can J her frien cann Also, will I to sa have atte11 Al1 disct roorr Will' sugg to d worn they with

c: rtJ .!:. ro ID u ::.:. .~ ~ >- .0 .e 0 .!:. a. CXHI, No. 14 York February 9, 19.84 Bathroom Blues . • • Dorm Showers Washed Up ByDAVEMARIIN Staff If you have spoken to any residents of West College dormitory lately, you have probably heard about one problem or another with the plumbing system. Director of Residence Life, Dave Wood, reviews the '$hOwer problem in the dorms. In late January, for a period of two weeks, the showers had no hot water on several oc- casions. A problem that has been in existence for some time is the. scorching hot water that flows through the shower heads when a toilet is flushed. Lukewarm showers have also been the norm for students Support Group Questioned ByLYNNHANO Staff The Student Forwn is in the process of deciding whether the Women's Support Group is. eligible to receive student ac- tivity ftu1ds. On January 24, Chairman of the Committee on Committees (COC), Jared Squires suggested to the forum that the Women's Support Group be approved as a formal club. The forum agreed to give the group student activity st~tus. The idea of providing funds was not as easily ac- cepted and brought about some questions as to the nature of the group and a monetary allot- ment. Theresa Shank of the Women's Support Gr.oup believes \it is a valuable group that deserves recognition and aid as a student activity.\ The group has been in existence for five terms, since the spring of 1982. It meets two hours a week and discusses individual concerns of the women attending. Shank thinks that the group benefits the campus as a whole. \The way that we reach all women on campus, besides it simply being open to all women, is through communication skills that we learn through being part of the group.'' It sh()uld be distinguished from the Women's Network whch is open to both men and women and addresses women's issues on campus. The support group is basically discussion oriented. - The focus is on the individuals at the meeting. Each woman takes an oath of confidentiality before the meeting so that she can feel free to say what is on her mind.. Shank says, \In a friendship this. kind of trust cannot always be counted on. Also, no matter what, everyone will Usten to what someone has to say, where as a friend may have too much work to give that attention.\ All kinds of concerns may be discussed, from harassment to roommate relations. A woman will voice her concern and then suggestions are made as to how to deal with the issue. The womenin this program find that they not only know how to deal with. problems better, but can now .give advice to friends who find themselves in similar situations. · In general, the women learn how to com- municate more .. effecUyely ~ which is · helpful ir1 the classroom, in getting a job, and relating to other people. There are usually from eight to ten members in ·the group, consisting mostly of students, but there are also professors and other ilon~student mem- bers·. The group believes it is cotulseling center. This center denied the Women's Support Group any kind of aid. Shank says ~at the Women's Support . Gr.(lllP' 'teallydoesnot want to be known as a counseling group. It is not a group of women with psychological problems.'' Most of the women involved are active in other campus ac- tivities and visible on campus.· If sponsored by the counseling center, then women may be scared off by the unfortunate negative connotations of counseling. Shank says, \The discussions are not always centered around problems, but '0 are many times positive.\ l The Women's Support Group ~ has now turned to th~ forum, ·~ from which it hopes to get e> funding. Ben Heckscher, the t chairman of the finance · com- ~ mittee and the vice pre~ident of .a finance on the Student Forum -E points out several problems that -a were brought out at the forum meeting last week. There is the question as to whether the Women's Support Group is a student activity. Other women are involved that are not students. These women have Chairman of Finance Committee, Ben Heckscher. helpfill to .have more \ex- perienced women · that know about holding a job, being married, and having childi:en.\ All women are welcome to attend the meetings and to brirtg their own dinner to 4th floor, Carnegie from 5:30 to 7:30. The Support Group i:s mediated by a professional facilitator, and this is where the major expense enters. For the first four terms, the Women's Commission paid for half of the cost of the facilitator. The members paid for the other half which amounted to $20,00 per person· per term. Last term, the commission discontinued funding because it believed that this type of group was not under its jurisdiction. According to Shank, \the facilitator is an essential part of the meeting. Although it is expensive, the meetings are not nearly as effective when a professional is not present.\ For the past term, the Women's Support Group has had to survive without funding. This meant Jt had to go without a facilitator while it searched f<n· funding. Desperate for funds, it approached the Continued on page 4 showering. in the . second and fourth floor showers on the south side of West and for the third floor residents showering on the north side. ·Finally, there is the longstanding question of whether the separate hot and cold water faucets are adequate enough for washing or if they should be replaced by a single hot and cold faucet. Cold showers were the problem that originally sparked the look at West's plumbing. When Director of Residence Life Dave Wood, was asked about the problem, he said that he had spoken to maintenance and that it was doing what it could. He toakt a moment to explain the role of residence life when such a problem occurs. Wb,en Residence Life receives a complaint about the dorms, it will send the information to maintenance. At that point, it becomes the responsibility of maintenance to repair the situation. Residence Life continues to keep .in contact with main- tenance and as Wood explains, works as a \liaison~' with · physical plant, and the students. D·irector of Campus Operations, Jack Hill, ex- plained that while his office will take calls directly from students, it prefers to take them from Wood's office since it can more accurately assess the problem. Cold Showers Hill said that the problem with cold showers had been the result of the boiler shutting itself off. It was found, in response to the fourth work order on January 25, that a faulty thermostat had been the cause of the lack of hot water so the thermostat was replaced. Since that time, there have been no complaints about cold showers. . There have been, however, many complaints about lukewarm showers in half of West's six bathrooms. When first asked, lUll indicated that he had not been made aware of this problem, but that ;he would check into it. He had previously mentioned that maintenance was in the \process of looking at the mixing valves in the v~rious buildings.\ Mixing valves are responsible for the ac«!urate mixture of hot and cold water. This past weekend main- tenance conducted a tem- perature survey in which it discovered some of the showers were below an adequate tem- perature level, as students have known for some time. Main- tenance has ordered mixing valves for some of the showers to correct the situation. These should arrive within a few days · and residents can expect hot showers soon. Maintenance also found that 'when the kitchen on West's first floor had new machinery in- stalled during Christmas break, the contractor had ·done some repiping that was the callSe of some temperature problems in the showers. Students on third floor West said that the showers had, in fact, become worse sincethe new year. That outside contractor is to be called back to redo the piping. - Mixing valves may also be the cause of the increased si!ower temperature that results from flushing a toilet. The water temperature becomes un- bearable to most students after a toilet is flushed. Soutll and Richmond are two donru! that have had serious problerru; with that· problem. In Richlnond, students yell \flush\ when flUshing so that those pe()ple in the shower do not get scalded. Apparently, the reduced pressure in the cold water pipes causes the . mixing valves to send more hot water through. The new mixing valves in West may lead to some conclllsions · about their success in sdving that problem, too. When first asked about the separate hot and cold water faucets at West, Wood sai.d that Continued on page 2

.; l ' i ! ' l l 1 [ ! c 10 ..c 10 10 u ~ u ~ >. ..0 .E 0 ..c 0. CXIII, February 9, 1984 Bathroom Blues .•• Dorm Showers Washed Up By DAVE MAltiN Staff If you have spoken to any residents of West College dormitory lately, you have probably heard about one problem or another with the plumbing system. showering in the second and ~ourth floor showers on the south side of West and for the third floor residents showering on the north side. Finally, there is the longstanding question of whether the separate hot and cold water faucets are adequate enough for washing or if they should be replaced by a single hot and cold faucet. first asked, Hill indicated that he had not been made aware of this problem, but that ;he would check into it. He had previously mentioned that maintenance was in the ''process of looking at the mixing valves in the various buildings.\ Mixing valves are responsible for the accurate mixture of hot and cold water. Director of Residence Life, Dave Wood, reviews the shower problem in the dorms. In late January, for a period ef two weeks, the showers had flO hot water on several oc- casions. A problem that has been in existence for some time is the scorching hot water that flows through the shower heads when a toilet is flushed. Lukewarm showers have also been the norm for students Cold showers were the f)roblem that originally sparked the look at West's plumbing. When Director of Residence Life Dave Wood, was asked about the problem, he said that he had spoken to maintenance and that it was doing what it could. He tookt a moment to explain the role of residence life when such a problem occurs. This past weekend main- tenance conducted a tem- perature survey in which it discovered some of the showers were below an adequate tem- perature level, as students have known for some time. Main- tenance has ordered mixing valves for some of the showers to correct the situation. These should arrive within a few days and residents can expect hot showers soon. Support Group Questioned When Residence Life receives a complaint about the dorms, it will send the information to maintenance. At that point, it becomes the responsibility of maintenance to repair the situation. Maintenance also found that 'when the kitchen on West's first floor had new machinery in- stalled during Christmas break, the contractor had done some repiping that was the cause of some temperature problems in the showers. Students on third floor West said that the showers had, in fact, become worse since the new year. That outside contractor is to be called back to redo the piping. ByLYNNHANO Staff The Student Forum is in the process of deciding whether the Women's Support Group is eligible to receive student ac- tivity funds. On January 24, Chairman of the Committee on Committees (COC), Jared Squires suggested to the forum that the Women's Support Group be approved as a formal club. The forum agreed to give the group student activity status. The idea of providing funds was not as easily ac- cepted and brought about some questions as to the nature of the group and a monetary allot- ment. Theresa Shank of the Women's Support Group believes \it is a valuable group that deserves recognition and aid as a student activity,'' The group has been in existence for five terms, since the spring of 1982. It meets two hours a week and discusses individual concerns of the women attending. Shank thinks that the group benefits the campus as a whole. \The way that we reach all women on campus, besides it simply being open to all women, is through communication skills that we learn through being part of the group.\ It should be distinguished from the Women's Network whch is open to both men and women and addresses women's issues on campus. The support group is basically discussion oriented. The focus is on the individuals at the meeting. Each woman takes an oath of confidentiality before the meeting so that she can feel free to say what is on her mind. Shank says, \In a friendship this kind of trust cannot always be counted on. Also, no matter what, everyone will listen to what someone has to say, where as a friend may have too much work to give that attention.\ All kinds of concerns may be discussed, from harassment to roommate relations. A woman will voice her concern and then suggestions are made as to how to deal with the issue. The women in this program find that they not only know how to deal with problems better, but can now give advice to friends who find themselves in similar situations. In general, the women learn how to com- municate more effectively, which is helpful in the classroom, in getting a job, and relating to other people. There are usually from eight to ten members in the group, consisting mostly of students, but there are also professors and other non-student mem- bers. The group believes it is counseling center. This center denied the Women's Support Group any kind of aid. Shank says ~hat the Women's Support Group\reallydoes not want to be known as a counseling group. It is not a group of women with psychological problems.\ Most of the women involved are active in other campus ac- tivities and visible on campus. If sponsored by the counseling center, then women may be scared off by the unfortunate negative connotations of counseling. Shank says, \The discussions are not always centered around problems, but '0 are many times positive.\ ~ The Women's Support Group c: has now turned to the forum, Q) ~ from which it hopes to get <.!> funding. Ben Heckscher, the t chairman of the finance com- '! mittee and the vice president of -9 finance on the Student Forum ~ points out several problems that .g_ were brought out at the forum Chairman of Finance Committee, Ben Heckscher. meeting last week. There is the question as to whether the Women's Support Group is a student activity. other women are involved that are not students. These women have helpful to have more \ex- perienced women · that know about holding a job, being married, and having children.\ All women are welcome to attend the meetings and to bring their own dinner to 4th floor, Carnegie from 5:30 to 7:30. Continued on page 4 Residence Life continues to keep in contact with main- tenance and as Wood explains, works as a \liaison\ with · physical plant, and the students. Director of Campus Operations, Jack Hill, ex- plained that while his office will take calls directly from students, it prefers to take them from Wood's office since it can more accurately assess the problem. Cold Showers Hill said that the problem with cold showers had been the result of the boiler shutting itself off. It was found, in response to the fourth work order on January 25, that a faulty thermostat had been the cause of the lack of hot water so the thermostat was replaced . Since that time, there have been no complaints about cold showers. There have been, however, many complaints about lukewarm showers in half of West's six bathrooms. When · Mixing valves may also be the cause of the increased shower temperature that results from flushing a toilet. The water temperature becomes un- bearable to most students after a toilet is flushed. South and Richmond are two dorms that have had serious problems with that problem. In Richmond, students yell \flush\ when flushing so that those people in the shower do not get scalded. Apparently, the reduced pressure in the cold water pipes causes the mixing valves to send more hot water through. The new mixing valves in West may lead to some conclusions about their success in solving that problem, too. When first asked about the separate hot and cold water faucets at West, Wood said that Continued on page 2 The Support Group is mediated by a professional facilitator, and this is where the major expense enters. For the first four terms, the Women's Commission paid for half of the cost of the facilitator. The members paid for the other half which amounted to $20.00 per person per term. Last term, the commission discontinued funding because it believed that this type of group was not under its jurisdiction. According to Shank, \the facilitator is an essential part of the meeting. Although it is expensive, the meetings are not nearly as effective when a professional is not present.\ On Saturday, Februc1ry 4, 1984, the Union College Men's Glee Club performed many selections, including 11 Aura Lee\ and 11 LOch Lomond.' 1 Article page 10. For the past term, the Women's Support Group has had to survive without funding. This meant it had to go without a facilitator while it searched for funding. Desperate for funds, it approached the : } ~ .. :· ··'Fourth Sorority Reiected ~~~·~··.,•a-. ,-,,;, ,:. ,,,.,, .·-., -,'/;+.w::-:- •• :~ ... ·:·.,~~{-.,.• .•. ;:. ,_,-,·,: )·.,'·.·,,,)(w ,,- -~ •'··''-'-'\·.~ .- .. , , ... -)~- ..... '\''\ -, Garnet Five Upsets Hamilton -P.aa16- _____ ,~_ .. , _________ ---~- ····· ... ·

CDNCORDIEN.f;'J.s: FehruurJ' 9, !98.J Sovi·ef Stumbling ublocs,. ••. Great Dec:isions A.rrives > ~ <II - 0 ... ttl m c 10 .c +- ro c 0 ....., > .0 0 .... 0 .c 0.. Professor William Martin, Senior L. Russell Pet, and Senior Barry Tits of Union's Great Decisions Group discuss Aridropov's Soviet Union. By GAVLE ROSENFELD N~wsEditor On Wednesday, February 1 at 7:30p.m., a group called Great Decisions 1984 visited. the College. This organization pre~ents . ei~ht ·important foreign pohcy Issues for citizen discussion ~ach year. For eight con~ecuttve_ Wednesday eve_mngs, . a ~fferent foreign policy topic Will be examined. The first meeting dealt with the \U.S.S.R_. under Andropov: Hard Cbmces for Moscow and Washington.\ TAP Needs,Revisions By ,POUG LANDON The New York State Legislature is presently con- sidering a proposal to increase the awards and income eligibility ceilings for the state- funded Tuition Assistance Program (TAP). The TAP Parity Bill passed the Republican-controlled New York State Senate last year, but was thwarted by the Assembly. TAP provides financial assistance to students of lower and middle income families who both reside and attend college in New York State. Presently, TAP awards range from $250 to $2,200, depending on a family's New York State taxable income. The maximum income level by which a resident student is eligible for TAP is $25,000. Under the bill, the maximum award would increase to $3,900 and students from families with New York taxable income of up to $40,000 would qualify by 1987-88. The plan provides for gradual in- creases in both levels over a f'Our-year period. When TAP was instituted in 1974, the maximwn award of $1,500 comprised sixty percent of the weighted average tuition then charged by independent colleges and universities in the state. Today, the highest allotment of $2,200 covers thirty~seven percent of the average tuition. Inflation has also made a 1974 income of $20,000 comparable to a $40,000 income in 1983 or 1984. Dr. Jack L. Maranville, executive associate to President Morris, is serving as the Union campus campaign coordinator for the support of TAP Parity. \The concept of parity is simply one of making TAP mean to students in the 80's what it meant to students in the 70's,\ Maranville said. The Commission an Independent Colleges and Universities ( CICU) and the Independent Student Coalition (ISC) both support TAP Parity and are working taward its passage in the legislature. These organizations believe that the increases are needed because inflation and increased tuition costs may be forcing '0 10 ~ c Ql Ql .. (!) ... .. <( > ..c .E 0 .c. a. ISC Representative, Steve Benson students out of the independent sector in their selection of colleges. \Unless TAP is repaired to make New York's independent colleges and universities more affordable, enrollment shrinkage will force many of these campuses to either close or drastically cut academic programs,\ according to a CICU brocbure~ The ISC has launched a . campaign for TAP Parity that includes five lobby days in Albany for students of in- dependent campuses in the state. Steve Benson, Union ISC representative, has organized an ISC committee on campus to coordinate petitions and letter writing on behalf of TAP Parity, as well as to inform the Union community of the bill's im- plications. Members of the lSC committee include Shari Midoneck, Dianne Pavacic, Joel Rosenfield, Marcy Wilder, Stacy Fassberg and Doug Landon. Benson points out that all Union students should be concerned about the TAP Parity issue, whether or not they presently receive TAP or live in New York State. TAP Parity would increase the amount of TAP funds available to Union students, and con- sequently free up financial aid scholarship funds that are now being awarded to the prospective \new'' TAP recipients. This would also reduce the need to raise tuition, Benson said. Another consideration that advocates of TAP Parity raise is the relationship between obtaining a quality education and the ability to pay for it. The CICU suggests that !'because there is a correlation between income and race, action on TAP Parity by the Assembly and the Governor becomes essential to avoid losing the substantial progress made toward volun- tary integration of New Yorl{'s higher education system.\ In Maranville's opinion, \it is time we restore the value of TAP which was originally in- stituted to address the questions of choice and access, which are in face New York State's goals in higher. education.\ The ISC committee urges all students and faculty who support TAP Parity to write Governor Cuomo and their assemblymen. \If students don't speak up for themselves,\ Benson said, \why Would the state legislature pass TAP Parity?\ West Furniture Financed? Continued from page 1 he had received no complaints about them, even though students are known to complain amongst themselves. When asked whether he felt the faucets were a serious problem, he explained what he felt should be the priorities for West. His first objective for next year in West is to replace all of the room furniture (desks, chairs, and chests) to the tune of approximately $95,000. Next on his list is the replacement of all the room doors at $140 each. After those improvements, he plans to upgrade the bathrooms as a whole, including the showers, sinks, and stalls. He said that West has come a long way, \you couldn't believe it three years ago.'' In the last few years, residence life has added closets, new fluorescent lights, and a new rug among other improvements. Wood believes . that the furniture in the rooms is severely outdated and that it should be the next item to be replaced. If all of the sinks were equipped with one faucet in- stead of the two, that would cost approximately three to four thousand dollars, based on rough estimates given to Hill. Students at West do not all agree.Most said that while the furniture does no~ look great, it is functional. The sinks, however, are a major in- convenience. One frustrated student commented, \I hate it. I absolutely hate it. It's totally ridiculous.\ \Obsolete\ seemed to be the common strain in residents' reactions. Chris Siler of fourth floor West said, \It definitely bothers me. They're making'all these improvements in the school, why don't they start with the basics.'' There · were still sorne students, thoUgh, that agreed with Wood. Maut·een O'Day and Mark Gagnon of third floor West both agreed that \you spend more time with your furniture than with :the sinks.\ In speaking to both Wood and Hill, it was interesting to note that actually very few people complained to either office. Clearly, students dislike tne two-faucet sinks, yet Wood said once again, he had never received any complaints. Maintenance even received surprisingly few calls about the cold showers. Wood mentioned that most students just ''grin and bear it\ usually assuming that nothing can be done. Residence life's budget is $180,000 .for 1984-85, represen• ting a major increase over last year. The administration ap- parently approves of the major improvements being made in the dorms. West is a major priority for residence life, but what gets done first could depend on whether or not students indicate where the problems lie. The thirty-year-old. Great Decisions program is sponsored by the Foreign Policy Association (FPA); Created in 1918, the FPA is, according to its br.Gchure, a ''national, nonpartisan, nongovernmental association (that) hasworked to help Americam increase their understanding of stgnificant U.S. fQreign policy issues, and to stimulate constructive citizen participation in world affairs.'' At the end of each meeting, the group's moderator has each group participant answer an opinion ballot supplied in the Great Decisions text sold, at $6 per copy, by the FPA. AccQr· ding to the. aforementioned pamphlet, the ''opinion ballots are tabulated by public opinion experts at Columbia University in New York. The FPA (then) presents the national results to members ef Congress, the Executive Branch and the- national media.\ The results of these polls are printed during February and March in The Christian Science Monitor and broadcast on various public· radio and television stations. New Opinions The program is often spon- sored by community organizations, colleges, military bases, senior centers, churches and synagogues, libraries, and schools. Through the efforts of Professor William Martin of the chemistry· department here at Union, this group has been brought to the College. Meetings in past years were held at both Schenectady's Jewish Community Center and its Senior Citizens Center. However, according to Senior Barry Tils, one of the group's campus facilitators, these centers \wanted to get some opinions of the 'younger people.' \ Union presents this op- portunity. Union's Jewish Student Union ( JSU), United Campus to Prevent Nuclear War (UCAM)., and the Campus Ministry of- ficially sponsor the group on campus, but it is Martin, Tils, and Senior L. Russell Pet who will serve as moderators at the meetings. At the Great Decisions first campus meeting, twenty-four participants were in at- tendance, approximately seven of which were Union students. Tils began the discussion on Andropov's Russia with some general . points. The Great Decisions Booklet gives a general · overview of the problem in question, but is is then Up to the participants to reflect on the information and then to comment on it. Tils' job is to prompt these remarks. Noted Tils, \Dealing with the Soviets and their problems have caused a lot of problems here\ in the United States. People disagree on how to deal with the Soviet Union. One example of this discrepancy is the Korean airliner incident. Americans · were and still are divided on just what actions should have been taken on the part of the United States. Pet then took over by ex• pressing three options discussed in the Great Decisions book that the U.S. has in regards to its foreign policy with the U.S.S.R. First, the United States could take a hard line and continue military buildup. and trade sanctions. The U.S. might consider not aiding Poland until free trade is· reborn there. Second, the ns. could continue the Strategic Arms Li.nlitations Talks (SALT I and II) with the world while continuing trade with the U.S.S.R. Third, a motto of 11 live and let liven could be con- sidered. Said Pet, ''Trade is by definition mutually beneficial.'' With all this in mind, Martin cautioned that this organization, Great . Decisions, is simply a discussion group and it does not imply that the moderators nor the participants know everything about foreign pol'icy. At this point, the discussion was opened up to the group . One young woman then stated, ''We (the U.S.) should loGk a lot harder towards .arms , \Idon'thavemu.chhope • . . I don't .see .any solution\ in regards to impfov.ing ·. u.s.- u:s.S.R. · relations._ control . . . a very vindictive atmosphere\ has been created through the arms race. An older woman countered, ''There•s not a simple line (between) aggressors and defenders.\ An elderly gentleman noted, \We don't understand the Russians any more than we do the Japanese. I don't have much hope . . . I don't see any solution'' in regards to im- proving U.S.-U.S.S.R. relations. Another older gentleman, and local Union alumni, made some observations on his recent trip to the U.S.S.R. His comments met with some opposition from mostly Union students and negated much of the in- formation students have heard from friends who have visited the Soviet Union. \There was nobody there . lying on tile street,\ said the gentleman. \They care for each other\ in the Soviet Union. \We're isolating ourselves from them. They're scared to death of the U.S. All they do is talk about wal'~\ Countered one Union student, \They're (the Soviets) concerned about war, but they're also concerned about suryiving\ in a country where living conditions are far from ideal. Trade Restrictions Trade restrictions towards the U.S.S.R. were also men- tioned as was · the Soviet pipeline.· Heated conversation on various topics often ensued but Union students seemed to encounter more difficulty in expressing their beliefs than did the older participants who have been formerly involved in the program and its procedures. One older woman who tended to dominate the d~cussion all evening did, however, have one very perceptive comment. \As Americans, we should be sure we have a-factual ... view of the Russian people so we don't make errors,'' Here this woman may be correct,for apparently, from this meeting, not everyone perceives the Soviet people and their government in the same light. Tils,. in response to the evening, was quite happy with the results. \I thought it went well.\ I only expected, said Tils, that ' 1 there were going to be about two or three students\ in attendance. With a mix of older Americans and younger college students, various opinions were expressed. · In general, the meetings are open to the public each week. The book, altho.ugh not reqUired, proves helpful. It is available for purchase at the meetings. Any needed in- formation in regards to this campus program can be directed to Tils (374-8583), Pet (370-8788) or Martin (370-6336}. The Schenectady Library is also sponsoring the series with Continued on page 5 F F B: A( the rejec fol'm The mixc:; stud~ Th idea Presi bres C!,nd · the soro1 .best adeq of a Th prop disn \{Tt a st1 Krer Sh was men sym] enti: Krei addi stre1 inc; Sh half is a~ inte1 hom atte mee told befo take the 1 sora pled sora the' Dt num mer Bee~ larg vite~ fall cre;;: only quo1 T1 strt sore repE beet littlt out yeru • II

CONCORDIENSIS. February 9, 1984 Pagej Fourth Sorority Outcome Proves Quite Fruitless By MARCY BURSTINER Staff. A decision has been made by tbe Panhellenic Council to reject the proposal for the formation ·Of a fourth ~orority .. The decishn1 has produced mixed feelings on the part ofthe student body. The PHC is ·notopp()Sedto the idea of an additional sorority, :President of the PHC Amy Dresner, said;. Both the council ~nd the deans's office felt that · the exjsting . structure of the sorority system would have to be strengthened before it could adequately handle the addition of a new holJ$e. . . The two women who made the proposal last spring were dismayed at the outcome. \(The PHC) shoUld look at it as a stre.ngthening factor,\ Nora Kremer remarked. She believed that the council was· trying to protect its member houses and were un- sympathetic to the needs of the entire female population. Kremer voiced that having an additional sorority would strengthen the voice of the PHC in campus matters. Shari Midoneck, the other half ofthe duo, added that there is a sufficient number of women interested in forming a new house. Seventy-five women attended an informational meeting last spring and were told to wait until after fall rush l:)efore definite steps could be taken. The understanding, at the time, was that 1f the three ~ororities met a quota of twenty pledges each, various national sororities would be invited on to the campus, Midoneck said. Dresner replied that the quota number given in the spring had merely been an estimate. Because of the unexpectedly largP. numbers of women in- vited back to the houses during fall rush, the quota had i.tF creased. She emphasized that only one house was able to meet quota. The' problem lies in the structure of the existing sorority system, Dresner repeated. . Women ·have only been admitted to the college for little over a decade. She pointed out that .three houses in ten years is not a bad nmnber. The council itself iS only three years old, and is therefore still in the process of smoothing out dif• ficulties in its policies and practices. The administration, Dresner continued, also agreed that the College was not yet ready to welcome a fourth house. For1 example, the majority of !listers in the three houses are not even as familiar with the rules and regulations involved in rush as 'the PIIC would like, she remarked. Kremer · and .Midoneck commented bitterly that one reason given to tbem 'for the decision was toe problem of h~ousing. It had been sussgested that the national sororities would not be· Willing to establish a new chapter here unless housing could be provided. As the administration had ex- pliCitly stated that no housing could be provided, the council assumed that the nationals would show no iriterest. Dresner claimed that this assumption was made, based on advice from people experienced in tllis type of matter · from other colleges. In defense of her proposal, however, MidQneck pointed out that one national ·sorority had already shown interest despite the housing situation. Phi Sigma Sigma had come to Union last spring to speak with the women. This was evidence, she believed, that the nationals would come if invited. Dresner replied that these nationals were not among t:Qe stronger sororities in the colin try. To have a weak fourth sorority Would only . oe detrimental, rather than beneficial, to the system. Dresner continued that ap- parently, neither the dean's office nor the Panhellenic is willing to welcome such a sorority to the College. Despite the claims, Midoneck and Kremer feel that the decision was unjust. ''Too many people come up to me asking what's happening with the new sor()rity ... We're being th- warted,\ stated Midoneck. Dresner replied that these women \have not given the existing system a chance.\ She explained that there are now 180 women presently i.p sororities. · GOODNEWS Announcing the establishment of THE UNION COLLEGE INVESTMENT ALLIANCE Learn fundamentals of investment strategies through hands-on investing The first meeting will be held to·night, February 9 in Conference Room A 3rci floor Carnegie Hall Everyone is welcome This reflects a good percentage, in her opinion, of the total female popUlation. She stated that the council is not ruling out the .possibility of a fourth sorority sometime in the future. \We look at things ob- jectively,\ she said. When the PHC judge believes that the system is sufficiently strong, the proposal will be reevaluated. \It won't take that long. It won't take five or six years.\ Proposers of a fourth. sorority, Shari Midoneck and Nora Kremer. .. Burdens On Society,. By SARAH CALDERINI Staff On Wednesday, February 1 at 7;30 p.m., a discussion on capital punishment took place in SS016. The guest speakl;lr, sponsored by the Union chapter of Amnesty International, was Exe.cutive Director of the New York State Coalition· for Criminal Justice (NYSCCJ), Van Zwisohn. Intelligent Discussion Zwisohn, a graduate of Albany Law School, believes that the issue of capital punish- ment is ''an impossible thing for some one to lecture anyone else about.\ Therefore, instead of lecturing, he led a very in- telligent discussion with the thirty-some odd participa!J.ts about the ever-controversial issue of the death penalty. The NYSCCJ was started in 1971 after the confrontation at Attica. This situation, where correction officers and prisoners protested prison conditions, is a key example of the use-of the death penalty. The protesters were sentenced to death. Zwisohn's main argument is that use of the death penalty is barbaric. He thinks capital punishment is an example of the failure of the United States' judicial system and of its society as a whole. He continues \As a human being in the twentieth century, I expect better from all of us, even those people who haven't thought it through yet.\ However, many people have thought through the issue of capital punishment. Presently, such countries as France, Brazilf Sweden, West Germany and many others have abolished the death penalty. In the United States, tbirty-nine states have jurisdictions with capital punishment statutes. The students who par- ticipated in the discussion were well-informed and offered many diverse opinions on the subject. One student believes that a death sentence should be imposed only on second .. time murder offenders. Still another made · an analogical jUStification by saying that if one steals, he forfeits the right to own property; so if one kills, it should follow that he thereby forfeits the right to live. On the other side of the coin, a student compared the death penalty to a dirt floor. Out of frustration, this society sweeps away the top layer of un- desirables, yet still does not clean the floor. Capital punish- executed.\ A person is eight to ten times more likely to be sentenced to death if he-she has killed a white person, Zwisohn says. The .killing of a black does not usually resUlt in the death penalty. The NYSCCJ does not believe that the death penalty serves as a deterrent to crime. First, not all offenders are caught and sentenced. Second, one never knows when the courts are going to make a mistake and sentence an innocent man to die. There is no way to know if a man is truly guilty. The NYSCCJ objects to this finality and claims that capital punish- ment adds to the violent at- mosphere in this society. The coalition also feels that human life has inherent value. ~ \If human life is valuable, then ~ every human with one (a life) is &_ valuable,\ says Zwisohn. \My 01 attitude is that there is always ~ hope for a human being.\ He Ul believes. that rehabilitation is . £ the logical answer and capital ~ punishment, executing people .c for their crime of killing other c. people, is totally illogical. It Executive Director of the should not occur in a civilized NYSCCJ Van Zwisohn on capital. S()Ciety. punishment. ment eliminates the so-called ''burdens on society'' but does not really solve the true problem. With this statement, ZwiSohn pointed out that, indeed, the \undesirables\ ·in this society are sentenced to death more often than other members. Presently, half of the thirteen hundred offenders on death row in the United States .are black. In most cases, these blacks have killed a white person. \What isn't punished is the killing of a black person,\ says Zwisohn. According to a Poverty Law Report (November-December, 1~77), \no white man who killed a black man has ever been _An_.al.t.er.nati¥e- t~ eapitat punishment is a sentence of life imprisonment without the possibility of parole. However, if society were to incapacitate offenders then it would not allow room for rehabilitation. This system would work against those offenders who truly want -to change. Capital punislunent is a very controversial subject in American society today and needs to be thought about by all who participate in the system. Any questions on the subject can be answered by writing to The New York State Coalition for Criminal Justice, 362 State Street, Albany, NY 12210. Enrollment Increases - By LINDA RAFFAELE Staff The admission statistics for the class of1987 were presented at a recent Board of Trustees meeting. The College received 3,203 applications for admission to this year's freshman class. Of thOse applications, 1,249 were accepted (39 percent), and 528 students actually enrolled. This makes the matriculation rate 42.3 percent, 2.9 percent higher than last year. The admissions offi<;e gave 3,572 interviews. Of this year's freshman class, 50.8 percent are from New York State. Private school students comprise 25 percent of the class. Twenty-six percent of the students were admitted as engineering or computer science majo~s. The median SAT score was 560 verbal, 630 math. It js interesting to compare this year's figures with those from the classes of '85 and '86. The class of '85 had a matriculation rate of 37.8 percent. The rate increased to 39.4 percent for the class of '86. It increased further to 42.3 percent this year. This finding is unusual because the decrease in government aid to college students is sending more and more students to less-expensive state universities. These figures, however, show that the nWfiber of students accepted at Union who decide to enroll increased 4.5 percent in the past five years. Moreover, Union has not had to lower its standards to insure a high rate of matriculation. Rather, admission standards are increasing. The median SAT scores for the classes of '85 and '86 were 560 verbal, 620 math. Thus, the average math score increased by ten points this year. The school is also attracting a larger out-of-state population. The classes of '85 and '86 consisted of 58 percent in-state students. This year the figure dropped to 50;8 percent. Twelve percent of the class of '87 is from the mid-Atlantic states.

Page .J CONCORDIEN.Ji,'J.S: February 9, 1984 ---------- ......... CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS---~------ Borodin Piano Trio to Visit The Borodin Piano ·Trio will .present an evening of chamber music Friday, February 10 at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Part of the Schenectady Museum· Union Conc.ert Series, the concert will feature Rach- maninoff's Trio No. 1, Shostakovich's Trio No. 2, Op. 67, and Beethoven's Trio in B flat, Op. 97, \Archduke. Performing will be Rostislav Dubinsky on· violin, Uuli Turovsky on cello and Lub Edlina on . piano. Free tickets for members of the college community are available at the Student Activities Office. The Borodin trio was formed in 1976 after its members left the Soviet Union. Violinist Dubinsky, as a student at the Moscow Conservatory, met pianist Edlina while he was forming the Borodin Quartet. Turovsky, a prizewinner at the Third Soviet Cello Competition, was for a nwnber of years a soloist on international tours with the Moscow Chamber Orchestra. The trio has performed throughout Europe, the Americas, Australia, New Zealand and the Mid-East. Presently residing in Indiana, Dubinsky and Edlina are members of the music faculty at the University of Indiana in Bloomington, where Dubinsky is the director of the chamber music prO'gram. Turovsky resides in Montreal, where he is a member of the faculty at the Conservatoire de Musique. Of the ensemble, The Washington Post has written: \The Borodin Trio is blessed with the strengths that come from years of intimate music- making.\ The New York Daily News said: \The Borodin reminds one of the good old days of the Heifetz- Piatagorsky-Rubenstein get- together.\ Mozart's '~The Marriage of Figaro\ to be peiformed Monadnock Music's critically acclaimed concert performance of Mozart's \The Marriage of Figaro\ will be presented in Italian at Union Saturday, Feb. 11, as a special addition to The Schenectady Museum-Union Concert Series. The concert will begin at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Tickets are $12 ($6 for .students) and are available from the Schenectady Museum, Community Box Offices and at the door. Led by Music Director James Bolle, the performance ' will feature Jeanne Ommerle as Susanna, Sarah Reese aso Countess, D' Anna Fortunato as Cherubino, Sanford Sylvan as Figaro, and James Maddalena as the Count, as well as the 30- piece Monadnock Music Chamber Orchestra. Richard Dyer of 'rhe Boston Globe has called this rendition of \Marriage of Figaro\ \the best-sung performance . . . I have ever heard.\ Ellen Pfeifer of The Boston Herald wrote: \The conductor guided the music with a sure hand, won- derful propulsive ~nergy.\ House lights will remain on for the performance to enable the audience to follow a libretto ' or score. Librettos will be available for purchase at the door one hour before the per- formance. Monadnock Music was for- med in 1966 by Bolle in a cottage in New Hampshire with an initial budget of $5,000. By 1981, with its reputation flourishing, the budget was something over $170,000. Monadnock Music has kept to its premise of presenting most of its concerts free, largely . financed by con- tributions. This has enabled Bolle to indulge bis mania for exploring every aspect of Western music, relatively unhampered by the . tyranny of the box office. Bone studied at Harvard, Aspen, Antioch and Nor- thwestern and received a doctor of humane letters from Franklfn Pierce College. A renowned composer and con- ductor, he is in his lOth year as director of New Hampshire Symphony Orchestra. Soprano Jeanne Ommerle has received a number of grants and awards and appeared with Sarah Cadwell's Opera Com- pany of Boston, the Lake George Opera Festival, the Glimmerglass Opera and the Virginia Opera Association among others. With America's oldest concert organization, the Handel & Haydn Society of Boston, she was soprano soloist for Thomas Dunn in National Public Radio's broadcast of St. Matthew Passion from Sym- phony Hall. Soprano Sarah Reese's recital debut in Boston last season created a sensation in the music world. An artist-in-residence Women's Support Group ... Funding Debated Continued from page 1 agreed to pay the full amount since they do not pay a student activity fee. The forum Will now have to decide more clearly exactly what defines a student activity. \The discussions (of the Women's Support Group) are not always centered .around problems, but are many times positive.\ -Theresa Shank Heckscher says, \The group could be put under the category of counseling and perhaps should be provided by the school as .a service, not a student ac- tivity.\ Heckscher also points out the possibility of liability on tbe part of the school if some problem arose out of the group. ; Shari Midoneck, junior ·trustee of the forum, notes that most student activities are run by the students and perhaps a paid facilitator takes it out of the realm of student activities. Both Heckscher · and Midoneck admit that, at this time, they do not fully un· derstand the workings of the group and the role of the facilitator. In order to un- derstand the group better, the forum agreed to pay for a facilitator to come for two hours this past Tuesday night, · February 7. The female members of the forwn attended the meeting and will report their findings to the forwn on Monday. A decision as to whether the group will be funded will be made then. If the forum agrees to fund the group, . the issue·will be brought before . the finance committee as to bow . much money they will recover., with the Opera Company ot Boston, shehasbeen feat\lred in La Traviata, Carmen, La Boheme and Armida. She has received grants from the Martha Baird Rockefeller Foundation and the American Friends of Austria, and has studied at' Furman University in Greenville and at the American Opera Institute in Austria. Mezzo-soprano D'Anna Fortunato has appeared as guest artist with prestigious orchestras, opera companies, oratoria societies and chamber ensembles throughout North America and Europe. In the .fall of 1983, her debut With. the New York City Opera in Handel's Alcina received glowing reviews. Her festiv:al per· formances include Tanglewood, the Newport Festival and the Each Festival in Rome, Italy. Sanford Sylvan first received national recognition in 1979 when he won third prize in the Kennedy Center-Rockefeller Foundation International Vocal Competition. He appears regularly with Handel & Haydn Soci'ety, Cantata Singers, Harvard Bach Society and ALEA III. James Maddalena was named outstanaing performer of 1983 by the Boston PhoeniX. The baritone has appeared with the Boston Lyric Opera, the Boston Pops, the New Hamp- shire Symphony and the National Symphony Orchestra. Foreign Policy Issues Discussed A series of discussions of foreign policy issues . titled \Great Decisions '84\ will be held over eight weeks at Union and at the Schenectady County Public Library, as part of a national information program. The Union sessions began Wednesday, Feb. 1, at 7:30p.m. in Strauss Lounge, 'Carnegie Hall. Those at the Public Library began Thursday, Feb. 7 at 10 a.m. in the Public Meeting Room. Both sessions are free and open to the public, and will be run by trained discussion leaders. Topics of the talks in the order in which they will be covered are: USSR Under Andropov; Mexico andthe US; US Security · and World Peace; South Africa.; the International Debt Crisis; Saudi Arabia and Jordan; China and the US; and Inter- national Drug Traffic. Local sponsors of the discussions are the American Association of University Women, Friends of the Library, the League of Women Voters, the Schenectady Senior Citizen's Center, the Social Action Committee, Unitarian Society, YWCA, 'YMCA, and a variety of Union student gn;mps. Books which contain background information on the talks from the Foreign Policy Association are i;ivailable for $6 at the meetings or atthe Jewish Comml,lility Center, the Senior Citizens Center, or through Prof. Bill Martin or student Barry Tils. Former Soviet Ambassador to Speak A talk at Union by Arkady Shevchenko, former Soviet ambassador and under secretary general at the United Nations, has been rescheduled for Thursday, Feb. 16. Titled \A View from the Kremlin,\ the lecture will begin at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel and is sponsored by Speakers Forum. Tickets are available at the Student Box Office in Carnegie Hall, and are $3 '($2 with Union I.D.). Shevchenko's talk at Union had been set for Jan. 11, but illness prevented his lecturing on that date. . Shevchenko is the highest ranking diplomat ever to defect to the United States from the Soviet Union. He was an in· timate of Krushchev, Brezhnev, and Foreign Minister Gromyko, and was actively engaged in Soviet decision-making on such issues as disarmament, Cuba, China and V.iet Nam. As under secretary -general, he was the highest paid Soviet abroad and possibly the wealthiest man in Russia. He . broke with the Soviet ~ystem in . 1978. . . Born in 1930 'in the USSR, Shevchenkoreceived a Ph.D. in International Law from Moscow's elite Diplomatic Institute and is a recognized scholar and author of many books and articles on a variety of political subjects. In his talk at Union, he will ·discuss the Kremlin and the attitude of the Soviet Union toward the Free World. College Credit for High School Students Offered A credit program for high school juniors and seniors, \College Experience,\ will be offered this slllllrtler from July 1 to Aug. 10 at Union. The program for '50 to 80 academically talented high school juniors and seniors offers a head start on college academic and social life. Those admitted will be taking two courses for college credit: a required course, \Great Ideas in Western Civilization,\ and an elective, chQsen £rom the fields of computer science, political science, biology, chemistry, art, language and psychology. The students will live on campus and eat in college dining halls. They may take advantage of sessions in career planning, study skills, decision making and human relation- ships, as well as campus and regional recreation facilities. Students participating in the program last year repres~ted a variety of intended majors, including pre-med, social work, languages and microbiology .. A survey taken at the completion of the program showed that 92 percent of the participants would recommend \College Experience\ to other qualified students at their high school Application deadline for those seeking financial aid is May 11, and for other students, May 25. Further information is available from Joan Krejci, assistant dean ·of graduate and continuing· studies, Wells House, Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. 12308; 370- 6288. Spring Term Preregistration Notice Preregistration materials for spring term 1983-84 will be available at the Office of the Registrar, Silliman Hall, beginning Monday, February 20th. Students are urged to secure their preregistration materials promptly. Students who do not plan to ·return to Union for the spring term, EXCEPT for graduating seniors, must i.m- mediately give notice of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. Potential March graduates should inform the, Office of the Registrar of their plans to complete their studies at the end of winter term, if they have not a I ready done so. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the week of February 20-24th. So.me departments may announce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such announcements. course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, Februa·ry 27th. A TEN DOLLAR ($10.00) l-ATE FEE WILL BE ASSESSED THEREAFTER! Please be on time, eVen though your schedule may be incomplete! PLEASE NOTE: R,quired cards for designated spring term · courses will not be available from departments until the Wednesday morn'i.ng of the week of preregistratio.n, February 22. · · . (C we ~ orga boyc \We and1 actu; goin1 Th typi• activ whel noun year prod \I diStr adds .orga Cali: that Mas~ Bu INF~ Acti< the neap anno that now. IN John boyc mon1 agre sells Wotl If~ com) agre pern Bo not rnotl coun dang Cons dilut slow·. deatl mixe tami fecti< fant~ Wi selli1 · Worl chan label dang wide and boyc prod Ar: com man, Heal dra~ the::: the~ Ne med] paig spon guid~ Th N Conti its o topic first Tue~5 held La disc u.s. and to pi Sect \Sm Deb'

CQNCORDIENSIS, February 9, 1984 Nestle Boycott Stopped (CPS)-\ All we know is what we saw in the papers,\ says organizer of Notre Dame's boycott of Nestle products. \We've heard it's over before, and we don't know if Nestle has actually changed, so we'll keep going for now.\ 111e ·unease seems to be the typical reaction of campus activists aroUlld the country when informed of the an- nounced suspension of the six- year-old boycott of Nestle products. \I must confess thel'e is .a distrust of the corporation,\ adds Dr. Peter Sabey, a boycott . organizer at the University of California-Davis and before that at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst. But last week Nestle and INFACT (the Infant Formula Action Committee), which led the boycott from its Min- neapolis headquarters, jointly announced in Washington, D.C. that the boycott was over for now. INF ACT leader Douglas Johnson later clarified that the boycott was suspended for six months because Nestle had · agreed to change the way it sells infant formula in the Third World. If at the end of six months, the company Is abiding by the agreement, Johnson will call a permanent end to the affair; Boycot!ers argued Nestle had not adequately informed mothers in underdeveloped countries about some of the dangers of using the formula. Consequently, mothers often diluted the mixture too !DUCh, slowly starving their babies to death. Moreover, parents often mixed the formula with con- taminated water, causing in- fection and disease in the in~ fants. When Nestle refused to stop selling the formula in the Third · World and then would not change the directions on the labels to warn parents of the dangers, INF ACT organized a wide range of campus, church and civil rights groups to boycott the company's products. AmQng other ac- complishments, INFACT managed to get the World Health Organization (WHO) to draw up guidelines to govern the selling of infant formula in the Third World. · Nestle fought back im- mediately. It funded a cam- paign to discredit boycott sponsors and the WHO guidelines. The boycott took a new turn \when· Nestle started to get very public relations-wise'' in 1982, says Jackie Orr, IN- FACT's communications director. . 111e company, she recalls, set up the Nestle Coordination Center .for Nutrition, hired former Senator Edmund Muskie to measure the firm's compliance with WHO guidelines and \'targeted our groups and ·campuses\ with \a sophisticated, slick public public relations campaign.\ In October; 1982 and early 1983, Nestle itself announced the boycott was over, and INF ACT had to scramble to inform its scattered ·support groups the boycott was, in reality, con- tinuing. But the \bogus\ an- nouncements, Orr says, \took their toll.'' ''I don't think there's any doubt there were some cam- puses.that had begun to waver'' in their support in recent years, \It may be- some time beiore I can drink Taster's Choice (a Nestle product) without thinking twice,\ Sabey adds. Orr says. Indeed, when Sabey arrived in Davis a year ago, he foUild \a lot of people had forgotten a boat it, or had been thrown off by press releases.\ Johnson denies INF ACT suspended the boycott because it was growing weaker. HWe were building steam. (A:n in- ternational infant formula conference this week in Mexico City) would have. brought that much more pressure on Nestle. They upon reflection dete~­ mined to pledge publicly to make a commitment at this time.\ The beginning of the end came when Johnson and .a Nestle official \met by chance on a train from Philadelphia to Washington, and decided they really weren't that far apart,\ ·. says Channing .Riggs, a Nestle spokeswoman in Washington, D.C. . Nestle, Riggs explains, wanted to abide by WHO guidelines, \but WHO wouldn't step in to say how to implement the guidelines.'' Another United Nation's agency, UNICEF, agreed to negotiate specific· steps for Nestle to follow the guidelines and end the boycott. Mexico Discussed Continued frolil page 2 its own moderators. The same topics will be discussed, but the first meeting was held last Tuesday at 10 a.m. and will be held on that day each week. Last night, Union's ·group discussed ''Mexico and the U.S .. : Discord over Immigration and Central America.'' Future topics will include \U.S. Security and World Peace\; \South Africa\· \International ' . . Debt Crisis\; \Saudi Arabia and Jordan\; \China and the U.S. : and \International Drug Traffic.\ Any interested persons are encouraged to attend any and all meetings. For futher information on the FPA and its Great Decisions 1984program writetothe FPA's National Headquarters, 205 --Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10016. Or write to the FPA's Washington office at.l800 K Street, N.W. Washington, ~n.c. 20000. coming this Friday · feb. lOth •.. MOUNTEBANKS 2nd Annual NIGHTCLUB rJ1)J.J1} 'Tickets $1.50 • 8:30 & 11 p.m. FREE BEER & PUNCH In December, INFACT made four \final\ demands on Nestle, to be met by early February. \Nestle initiated contact with us, and we .began talking, and those talks turned into serious negotiations,\ Orr reports. · Orr adds they were the first \intense and direct negotiations\ between the adversaries since fall, 1982. Since 1978, when the boycott began, as many as 200 cam- puses endorsed efforts to ban Nestle products from their vending machines and. food services. \We've never really known exactly how many groups were participating in the boycott,\ Riggs says. \Five· years ago a student government votes to endorse the boycott, but now all those people are gone~ It's still. on the books, but no one knows about it.\ Some took it off the books. Harvard, for one, repealed its boycott in 1~82, as did the American Federation of Teachers. But many were still going at it. Just a week before Johnson suspended the boycott, a Peoria minister was trying t() revivify anti-Nestle efforts at lllinois State, and Sabey was speaking at Davis. Davis students formed a Hunger Task Force, and had voted to mount a campaign to kick Nestle products off their campus. \I was a little bit surprised\ by Johnson's announcement, Sabey says. Few of the boycotters seem ready to start asking .schools to begin stocking Nestle products again, however. Avoiding Nestle products, Orr says, \has be.come an ongoing lifestyle for some people. I'm personally not going to en- courage anyone to turn back to Nestle Crunch bars for a while.'' ''It may be some time before I can drink Taster's Choice (a Nestle product) without thinking twice,\ Sabey adds .. Such emotional hangovers \will t;;tke a while to clean up,\ Riggs concedes. Former Soviet Ambassador Arkady Shevchenko will ~Reak at Union on February 16. Diplomat Visits Speakers' Forum has rescheduled former Soviet Ambassador Arkady Shev- chenko to speak in Memorial Chapel on Thursday, February 16 at 8:00 p.m. His previous commitment of last January was postponed for health reasons. Top Political Advisor . In 1978, Arkady Shevchenko became the highe~ ranking Soviet diplomat to defect to the United States. Born in 1930 in the USSR,. Shevchenko later received his Ph.D'< from Moscow's elite Diplomatic Institute. Prior to his 1 defection, Ambassador Shevchenko was the top political advisor to Foreign Minister Gromyko and is said to know \more about Kremlin secrets and policies toward the Free World than any other person in the West.\ From.1973 to 1978 Shevchenko was Under Secretary General of the United Nations_in charge of the Security Council and Public 'Affairs. Ronald Reagan commented in 1978 that United States ex- perts felt Shevchenko's clecision could be the \biggest and most important breakthrough for us since World War TI ..• (and) Shevchenko is probably fully informed of Russia's strategy and its worldwide goals.\ Shevchenko's defection was aided by CIA procedures. After the tragedy of the downing of Korean Airline Flight 007 Shevchenko voiced his views on the subject in a Newsweek Magazine interview. Essentially he stated, \It was not an accident; it was a natural product of the standard func- tioning of the Soviet ,system.'' , In past presentations, Shevchenko has discussed such topics as the Kremlin's view of the White House, Soviet sub- version and espionage, and the succession of power in Moscow. Tickets will be available in the Student Activities Box Office at a cost of $2 for Union students and $3 for the public; Tickets purchased for the January date will remain valid for this event. New Courses Slated By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Features Editor \The Garnet is not the same type of p1,1blication as the Concordy. I don't see the rationale for sending copies to the trustees;'' stated Junior Trustee Shari Midoneck at the last forum meeting. 111ough the February 6 meeting was brief, several issues were discussed. Following the normal order of events, the committee reports were presented. Joe Bogan of the Inter-Fraternity Council reported that \This February 15th, the IFC will be .sponsoring a lawyer from Albany who will be discussing fraternity liability. Other than that there· is no other news to report.\ Jamie Danziger of the Academic Affairs Council (AAC) reported the creation of eight new courses. They are: \Nuclear Technology,\ \War and Peace\ '<Mental Health\ ' . ' \The Arab-Israeli Conflict,>! \The Arab-Israeli Conflict and Islamic Revolution,\ \The Civil War and Reconstruction,,; \Minovities in America,\ \The . Origins of American Society,\ and \Decision Making and Contemporary Problems.\ In addition, the AAC! is in- vestigating \the present anc:J. future compUter needs of the students and faculty.'' Lastly, the AAC is beginning a com- parative study of Union and thirty-three other schools. The AAC is analyzing \the course load of the professors at Union versus that of . professors at other schools.\ Though ji.!St in the preliminary phase, Dan- ziger stated that \the course load of Union professors is being compared to that of faculty at other schools. The AAC is trying to find out if Union professors are 'overloaded.' If so, the possible options (more faculty, cutting courses, etc.) will be analyzed. The discussion and research are in their initial phases, now.'' Steve Benson of the Independent Student Coalition (JSC) reported that the first day for lobbying for TAP parity will be on March 6. \We have frozen the passage of constitutions for the next three weeks,\ stated Chairman of the Committee on Com~ mittees Jared Squires. This action was taken so that \the COC by laws could be com- prised. Many preliminary steps. toward this goal have been taken so far~\ Squires added. At this point, Benson made a suggestion for the formation of an ad hoc committee to begin work on the forum's own bylaws. Five forwn volunteers are on the new committee: Steve Benson, Sue Brand, Andrew George~ Shari Midoneck, and Jared Squires. Vice President for Finance, Ben Heckscher, went over the last finance committee meeting. The women's rugby club was allocated $783 for equipment, supplies, etc. A motion was made by Heckscher for the forum .to allocate the money. The motion passed unanimously. He then reported that this leaves $1,008 unspent in the student activities fund (not ind11ding the $5,000 contingency fund). Members of the COC were also present at the meeting to begin discussion on the hi-term activity reports on club \activity.\ Only preliminary discussion ensued, with more to follow at the next meeting. The Garnet's income was discussed. Presently the yearbook has sold only 420 copies although it has ordered eight hundred from the printer. The possibility of cutting down the number of issues was discussed. In · addition, year- book editor Larry Shapiro annolUlced his desire to send the Garnet to the trustees. It is at this point when Shari Midoneck expressed her disapproval of the measure. She believed that the precedent set by Con- cordiensis need not be extended to Garnet. Lastly, it was an- nounced that on Tuesday, February 28, the finance committee will be holding a meeting to discuss organizational funding for next year. The forum meeting was then adjourned, because of the lack of \old\ or \new\ business.

Page6 INTERNATIONAL CAREER? A representative will .be on the campus hTE~NESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1984 to discuss qualifications for advanced study at AMERICAN GRADI,IATE SCHOOL and job opportunities in the field of INT&RNATIONAl. MA.NAGEMENT ==:.=--= Interviews may be scheduled at CAREER PLANlUNG AND PLACEMENT AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT Thunderbird Campus Glendale, Arizona 85306 CONCORD/ENS/,\: February 9, /98J _BAH.AMAS SPRING BREAK from $345 Includes Round Trip Air, Transfer, Seven .Nights Aecom· rnodation, Welcome Rum Swizzle, One Hour Rum. Swizzle Patty, Canvas Travel&g, Three Hour Cruise wffwo Hour Onlimlted Rum Punch, Beach .Party w/Lunch, All Taxes. NO HIDDEN CHAROES FORT LAUDERDALE SPRING BREAK from $135 Includes seven nights ot prime Joc~tion, welcome party w/free beer, complimentary travel b~g. AMTRAK only. $155 .AIR ONLY $198 I . COLLEGE REP. NEEDED - EARN FREE TRI:P . . GREENWICH TRAVEL CENTER 1·800·243·3858 Attention Membe·rs Big Brother/Big Sister goes to Cooperstown Destinations: 1. Baseball Hall of Fame 2. Farmer'sMuseum *We wan·t ycu.l on campus*. Dutch HolloW ' - ' . Pub Every thursday night Live I)J spinning greed tunes 9·p.mo•1 a.m. Tuesday, FE!b. 14 Mark Mason, guitarist You make the night SPECIAL! We will honor competitors' ads at the Pub (or match theni as best we can) 9-11:30 Bri,ng in an ad for another establish,. ment, give it to the Pub manager, and. start the specia I for the nlght! CAUTION: We will not honor any 11 give_away\ ads Date: Sat. Feb. 18, 1984 i\n instantaneous leap into the magicar Departure time: 8:30a.m. Place: Rear,of Fox Dorm Cost: FREE Return Time by 9 p.m. Snacks provided • possibly lunch limit: 20 Bigs/20 Littles Call BB I BS Office to reserve a spot for you & your little 37 4-45,23 ASAP Important Yearbook Meeting TONIGHT! 7:30p.m. 4th floor Ca-rnegie Hall New Staff Still Welcome Circle K presents FLOWER DAY On Campus Flower Day begins Thursday, · Feb. 9. Have a flower delivered · to someone special. Order your flowers from 10:30 to 3:30 until Tuesday, Feb. 14. in nearby Saratoga Co~ntg Friday Night College Special buy one lift ticket get the second lift ticket for half price! Alpine Meadows Ski Area Alpine Meadows Road Greenfield, New York (518) 893-9484 -Washington · Discover the bestseller that \ transcends the barrier between fantasy and reality-and, some sa~ some of the barriers to world peace · A #1 bestseller in Germany, Italy, Spain and other European countries where it has become a symbol of the peace movement. Now a bestseller in Amenca. To be a major motion picture refeased by Warner Bros. in 1984. illustrated, printed in two colors throughout. $15.95 at all booksellers · .- - .......... -- N Wt isn't kno' job. ma} high ploy on v abm a jol vita: the yom the ma:t beli1 resu lettE feet: cent Eh ma~ witt bos! of p stan cha1 an CO VI inte Res befc sho1 Pla1 iny catc Tl the I don cor. age stit em1 and be. min and gro· ffi01 you plo~ fror the: . outt St abo av;; De' pus wri Pul mu: ann hHr and to 1 non gov can 'I the nee abc en a ef£1

(ONCORDIENSIS, FehruarJ' 9. 1981 Page7 = FEAT.URES On the Career front- Nailin.g Down An Interview ByDIANEPAVAClC We all too often hear that it isn't what you know but who· you knov<.: that gets you your first job. This may be true in the ~ajority. of cases but, it is htghly doubtful that an em~ ployer will hire someone based on what Mr. X or Mrs. Y says a~out them. Before anyone gets a ]ob offer they must undergo a vital step--the interview. It is the way in which you present· yourself to the people who have the power to hire you that matters. Contrary to -popular belief, blindly se11ding out fancy reswnes and bOasting cover letters has a very low ef- fectiveness .rate~about 1 per- cent-3 percent (Computer and Electronics Graduate :m.agazine). So, what do you do with all those beautifully em· bossed, perfectly printed sheets of paper? You can make them stand out and · increase your chances of getting called in for art interview by attaching a cover letter that shows your · interest in the organization. Researching. an organization before you interview with them shows initiative and interest. Placing some of this knowledge in your cover letter will surely catch the employer's eye. The task isn't easy though; there is a lot of homework to be done. First, a list of target corporations, government agencies, educational in- stitutions or other possible employers that meet your job and personal expectations must . be made. You should keep in mind the employer's history and its potential for future growth and what kind of career movement (hopefully upward) you can expect with the em- ployer (do they fill top positions from within the company or do they bring people in from the . outside). Second, if written material about the employer is not availaole in the Career Development Center on cam- pus, it can . be obtained by writing a short note to the Public Relations or Com- munications Departments. An annual report, organizational history, product information and publicity articles are sure to be sent to you. Even in the non-profit area (education and government) this information can be received easily. The information will provide the necessary background you need to become knowledgeable about the employer and will enable you to communicate effectively in an interview and in a ;cover letter. An employer will surely respond fl;lvorably when an applicant knows a great deal about them...,it shows that you have done your ·homework and that you really care about working there. Third, the local libra,ry will have business publications and directories (Standard and Poor's, Dun and Bradstreet etc,) that can help · in the research.Ing process. Librarians. can also point out spedaUzed refe.rences little known in a .certain .field. For a closer look at target · organizations, call or write their .personnel departments. Ask them to send infonnation on training, management programs., descriptions of employee benefits and promotion po1icies. lVlost firms have a packet ready and waiting for new employees that theY can send to you. And finally, keep abreast of your career field(s) of interest. Read tlie newspapers for recent promotions or ·transfer an- nourtcements. The Wall Street Journal, Business Week, Forbes, trade and professional publications will all keep you informed of new developments and perhaps supply you with another source or name to contact. To quote the Wall Street Journal, \The whole idea i~ to b~ a sponge: J.Oak up every little bit of data on the potential employer's you'll be ap· proaching.\ Write directly to an employer by writing to the manager of a particular department you'd like to work in. (For example, yoU'd write to the manager of the systems department if you wanted to work as a computer programmer or analyst.) The department head will probably know exactly where the openings are--who is being replaced, transferred, or promoted in the tuture ·and will keep you in mind. A letter and resume sent to the personnel department would give you double exposure and would also - make sur~ your reslUlle ends up in the right hands. Of course you can always phone the departments directly after you have sent your resume and ask for an interview. And then send a thank you letter before your visit. If this method isn't comfortable f()r you, then ask for an interview in your cover letter. In a recent Cosmopolitan magazine, there was an article showing how one college student, Trish Todd, got her first job by utilizing the method ~\ · \\ · · Hk ·:ocrc==>~k==:oc~<===gw_ n Friends? Secret Admirer? Lover? n_ U Let Your Va/entine(s) U '\· In Oil The Secret! n u ~~~~_..~~&-~~~~_.. u ~ Send Them All n n A Candygram U u ••••••••••••• ~ n Ordering T.imes: ·~ U Thursday, F=riday: Carnegie Hall ~ Sat., Sunday: Brunch atWe$tCollege . • Monday: Carnegie Hall . 'Delivery Date: Tuesday, Feb. 14- Valentine's Day ·~ Cost: Each Candygram is only $1.00 . A White candygra m is for friends! · A Pink candygram is for secret adhlirers! lj A Red candygram is for lovers.! ~I< · \Mk ·· · =>IK;: . 1:XH · ·· \IK::: =::;:_:H .. IHM==:::H)Id of reading trade journals in her career area. It read as follows, ''I was reading a feature in Publishers Weekly when I saw a statement made by the president of Si:mon & Schuster. He was quoted as saying it was becoming difficult to find bright young people for editorial positions because many were attracted by jobs in higher.,paying fields such as advertising. He even suggested he'd consider providing living space for new editors to make the job more attractive. I decided to write and tell him I was bright,· young and very much wanted an editorial position in trade publishing, but he didn't have to provide living space to attract me. Quite frankly, I felt I had n_othing to lose and expected to get a nice form letter in reply.\ A week Professor Rudy Nydegger, faculty advisor in the Paranoia game. If ParanoiaStrikes · after Ms. Todd mailed the letter, she received a call from a representative at Simon & Schuster. It seems that although many people had written the president in response to his comments, her letter had been among those passed along to a woman 'who was trying to fill an editorial spot in the company's Pocket Books division. Impressed with Ms. Todd's letter, she asked her to come in for an interview. Shortly thereafter, Ms. Todd was asked to join the editorial staff.\ Probably the thing to remember is that there is no best strategy for getting an interview. The best ·is the one that effectively presents your marketable strengths in a style that feels natural to you. For a free copy of \How to Read a Financial Report,\ write to Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith, Inc., One Liberty Plaza, 165 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10080. Trad.e, professional ByANDYCHANG Staff Upon returning to her dorm one night, a .sophomore found her room covered with toilet paper and a knife stuck in the door. As the last surviving female in the campus activity,· Killer, Susan Rubman was understandably rattled. This incident coupled with a course in abnormal psychology led her and Dr. Rudy Nydegger to create the board · game Paranoia. The board game was initiated two years ago when Susan was a sophomore and is now nearing completion .. Essentially the game is familiar: a board with comments on every square, chance cards and influential factor cards. The object is to successfully traverse the bojird without being diagnosed as paranoid-which is in fact a major trait of paranoid people according to Nydegger. The game takes under an hour to play and is designed for two to four players, A player will also accumulate vulnerability points. As the number increases the greater the chance of being declared paranoid at which point one is sent to a counseling center or a storefront clinic. There are many other courses of action involved and ac· cording to Rubman there was a great deal of effort put in to make them humorous. The project continued -as an independent study project and about one year was spent on defining the logic and in- tricacies of the game. Though the game could be used for · teaclling purposes, Nydegger and Rubman both stress that the game is fun to play and that knowledge of the field would make it even more enjoyable. ''The likelihoad of the game being marketed is very small,\ says Nydegger explaining that the game business is flooded with ideas every year. The team has not approached any game companies for the fejar of the idea being taken. At present, a copyright is .pending on the game. Nydegger and Rubman were invited to present the game at the Western Psychological Association Conference in Los Angeles in April. They have hopes that at thepoint the_gamewillcatch the fancy of a potential manufac- . turer. Rubman states, \Though it was a lot of work, it was also a lot of fun.\ She points out that many of the situations in the game sprang from personal experience at the time and thus carry some sentimentality. If their present venture is s,uccessful, Nydegger · and Rubman both agree that another game will definitely be forthcoming. magazines and journals often contain notices of job listings that do not appear in the local papers. A few: Ad Search, Box 2038, Milwaukee, Wi. 53201, Affirmative Action Register, 8356 Olive Blvd., St. Louis, Mo. 63132, and Federal Jobs, Inc., P.O. Box 1438, •Leesburg, Va. 22075. Issue of the Issue Some of the information in this article was obtained from the National Business Employment Weekly, Fall1983, published by the Wall Street Journal. .? Circle K Success Circle K's 50-50 raffle has been won by John Jerwick. All proceeds Willbe donated to the Schenectady Task Force Against Child Abuse. We thank all of you who con- tributedtowards this cause. By JUDI PHILIPSON Staff \\1Jlat improvements, if any, would you like to see in the Term Abroad or Foreign Language Programs? Elizabeth Slover '85: \Why can't we have a term abroad to Egrpt, Kenya, or Hong Kong? Umon should offer courses in Japanese and Chinese, so I will know how to order at all the Chinese restaurants in Schenectady . . . \ Michele Isele '85: \I think they should have a term abroad i.n Ecquador ... I think students would be interested in seeing Report on OXFAM Fast Day Of January 19th Thank you to the over 200 students who fasted from their meal plans and ~II t~ose of the Union community who fasted and made contnbut1ons to Oxfam America. A special thanks g~es to F?od Service for their support and the graciousness w1th wh1ch they encouraged the \rebate plan\ that necessarily cr~eated more paper work for them. A ~heck tor $662.46 is being sent directly to Oxfam A':lenca. The Cam.pus Ministry Office is very pleased with th1s response and mtends to make such a day part of the tradi_tion on the Union Campus. Fraternities, Sbrorities and individuals contributed canned goods and packaged f.oods--eigtlt cartons were delivered to the Food Pantry at First United Methodist Church at 603 State Street to be distributed to needy citizens of Schenec· tady. the equator. We have home movies from my last trip ... '' Mark Feldman '85: ' 1 I think the term abroad is adequate- Anyone who wants to go has the opportunity. The trimester makes it very applicable to go on the term.\ Jason Green '87: \Well I haven't done either . . . but I would like to go on the North Pole to use their library ... I'll be writing my thesis on Santa Claus ... , you know ... Man or Myth?\ · John Peeling '84: \I would like a term abroad skiing-How about the Alps? They don't have a program there like that.\

.. PageS CONCORDIENSIS, Fehruo(r 9, 1984 <ll11mrbirnsis Forpw/n/ at l!t~~on Co/lee~ 1877 ------~---- ----------- The Freedom To Choose Last Tuesday night, an X-rated movie was shown . on campus by the Union College Film Committee. All showings .of the film were sold out. However, the pornographic nature of the film has raised a lot of controversy. Some people object to such films being shown on campus, while others object to pornography in generaL The central issue involved is freedom of choice. Whether or not an X-rated film should be·shown on campus is a very complicated issue. It is difficult to decide what is ''acceptable\ or \unacceptable\ without imposing one's own moral values on the community. The Film Committee offers X-rated movies a few times a year. These films are almost always sold out and make a two to t8ree hundred dollar profit. They therefore do not cost t8e Film Committee (which is funded by the student activities fee) anything. Union offers many diverse clubs and activities. Some are funded by the Student Forum and some are not. ·The point is that students have the opportunity to choose those activities that they have an interest in. Just because every student does not want to be in- volved with every activity does not mean that it should not be sponsored and/or funded by the school. Protestors of pornography contend that it may lead to negative attitudes toward women and toward human sexuality. This may be true. It also may be true that violent films cause violence in society and films that depict drug and alcohol abuse ·promote similar activities. There are many different opinions on this issue. Where d() you draw the line? The question of pornography has been debated in the courts for many years. While we do not advocate pornography, · prohibiting the showing of por- nographic films on campus violates an extremely important value of American society-that of freedom of choice. The issue itself is very complex. The only equitable solution is for people to be able to make their own decisions as to what is right for them. • • Applications are now available for positions on the ORIENTATION COMMITTEE· NOTE: The O.C. organizes freshman orientation. members DO NOT serve Orientation Adv,isers (O.A.'s)o Deadline: Feb. 13 the o.c. as Pick up forms in the office of Student Affairs Carnegie Hall LETTERS Panhellenic Speaks ·out To the.Eclitor: We believe it is the respon- . · sibility of the Panhellenic Council to inform the campus of our recent decision concerning a possible fourth sorority. Panhellenic is not opposed to the colonization of a fourth sorority; however, the fact that we are a young organization would not provide us with the • strength necessary to assist a newly chartered chapter. Since the administration cannot provide a fourth sorority with housing at this time, the new sorority would be starting at a disadvantage and would further need the assistance of the Pannellenic Council. It is important to both the' Greek system and a newly chardred chapter to have ·a strong national .supporting them. Our National Panhellenic Advisor, Mrs. Marge Converse, has informed us that a strong national would not consider colonization · without com- petitive hom;i.ng. Another consideration is that When a national sorority takes interest in colonizing, it eKamines the campus' previous rush statistics. As only four women were not matched with the house of their_choice this year, there would not appear to the national sororities to be an immediate need for the wlonization of an additional chapter. We therefore en- courage women to go through rush and investigate the op- portunities already provided by the sororities on campus. The. Panhellenic Council has recently established an ex• tension committee to in· vestigate and assist the even- tual colonization of a fourth sorority. It will be up to the CouncH to select a strong national which Will enhance Greek life. We are 'optimistic that within the next few years Union will be prepared to welcome a fourth sorority and that the Panhellenic Cotmcil will be strong enough to provide it w:itb the support .it deserves. Sincerely, The Panhellenic Council Anti .. Semitism Draws Concern To the Editor: Once again we find it necessary to express disgust at the appearance -of swastikas · and anti-J:ewish slogans on a Jewish Student Union poster. Unfortunately this has hat- ppened numerous times and past comments have had no effect. If this is a joke, it is .in very poor taste. However, if it is . serious we a:r;e facing a grave malady. Besides the shamelessness of the person(s) Who committed this anti-Jewish act we are appalled by the implicit agreement of his-her peers who did not stop this reoccurrence. We are not condemning the whole campus, but rather, those who are willing to live with anti- Semitism. Sincerely, Mike Factor President JSU RavitAvni Vice President Scott Bernstein Treasurer , Sharon Kass Secretary A Question of Entertainment To the Editor: We, the members of the Women's Network, disapprove of the showing of pornographic fihns on Union College campus. We feel tbat they promote distorted views of human relationships and portray bOth women and men as mere sex objects. Although we do not necessar·ily object to sexually explicit scenes in films, we feel that movies such as \Wanda Whips Wallstreet\ only exploit human sexuality. While some may consider this type of film \entertainment we feel that it -reinforces the destructive sexual attitudes Which are already too prevalent in our soCiety. The Women's Network Campus Pornography - An Objection To the Editor: At the February 6 meeting of the Newman Club it was unanimously agreed to express our disappcoval of the por-- nographic film shown on campus. The disapproval centered on: 1. · The use of our student activities fee to promote por- nography on campus. 2. The abuse of the body Without consideration of the individual. While the Newman Club Further Protest To the Editor: We of the Union College Christian Fellowship would like to express our concern about the fact that an X-rated film is being shown on campus. (By the time of this printing it will have been shown.) These films depict people in a dehumanizing way, and we believe that this contributes to problems in society and harm- ful attitudes on campus. These fibns have effects on various levels. They affect the people involved in making them, and also anyone who sees them. Many students have become concerned over the fact that our money is being used to obtain sexually exploitive films. We, as an organization on campus, respectfully request that the Film Committee and anyone else involved in bringing these films to the campus please · reconsider their position in this matter. Union Sincerely, Patty Winters, President Cheryl Harkness; Secretary-Trea~urer College Christian Fellowship recognizes the importance of principle. Pornographic films freedom of choice, the removal may be ·viewed off campus. of pornographic films from campus does not violate this NeWlllan Club To the SincE a fede create vices disable plea sUi en thus studen1 childte Dol ,have E would break, vacati(J say, tl we've away vacatio sotneti.J their cl Tha11 stud.en1 sselaer

Pa~e8 <llnltfllrbirnsis FoUMkd at llmM Co/lee~ /877 ------------ ----------- The Freedom To Choose Last Tuesday night, an X -rated movie was shown on campus by the Union College Film Committee. Ali showings of the film were sold out. However, the pornographic nature of the film has raised a lot of controversy. Some people object to such films being shown on campus, while others object to pornography in general. The central issue involved is freedom of choice. Whether or not an X -rated film should be shown on campus is a very complicated issue. It is difficult to decide what is \acceptable\ or \unacceptable\ without imposing one's own moral valu.es on the community. The Film Committee offers X-rated movies a few times a year. These films are almost always sold out and make a two to three hundred dollar profit. They therefore do not cost the Film Committee (which is funded by the student activities fee) anything .. Union offers many diverse clubs and activities. Some are funded by the Student Forum and some are not. The point is that students have the opportunity to choose those activities that they have an interest in. Just because every student does not want to be in- volved with every activity does not mean that it should not be sponsored and/or funded by the school. Protestors of pornography contend that it may lead to negative attitudes toward women and toward human sexuality. This may be true. It also may be true that violent films cause violence in society and films that depict drug and alcohol abuse promote similar activities. There are many different opinions on this issue. Where do you draw the line? The question of pornography has been debated in the courts for many years. While we do not advocate pornography, prohibiting the showing of por- nographic films on campus violates an extremely important value of American society-that of freedom of choice. The issue itself is very complex. The only equitable solution is for people to be able to make their own decisions as to what is right for them. • Applications are now available for positions on the ORIENTATION COMMITTEE NOTE: The O.C. organizes freshman orientation. members DO NOT serve Orientation Advisers (O.A..'s). Deadline: Feb. 13 the o.c. as Pick up forms in the office of Student Affairs Carnegie Hall (VNCORDIENSIS, Fehruury 9, /984 LETTERS Panhellenic Speaks ·out To the Editor: We believe it is the respon- sibility of the Panhellenic Council to inform the cam:pus of our recent decision concerning a possible feurth sorority. Panhellenic is not apposed to the colonization of a fourth sorority; however, the fact that we are a young organization would not provide us with the strength necessary to assist a Newly chartered chapter. Since the administration cannot provide a fourth sorority with housing at this time, the new sorority would be starting at a disadvantage and would further need the assistance of the Panhdlenic Council. It is important to both tne· Greek system and a newly chart'€red chapter to have a strong national supporting them. Our National PanheHenic Advisor, Mrs. Marge Converse, has inf()rmed us that a strong national would not consider coloni.zation wi>tho:ut com- petitive housing. Another consideration is that when a nationa'l sorority takes interest in colonizing, it examines the campus' previous rush statistics. As only four women were not matched with the house of their choice this year, tl;}ere would not appear to the national sororities to be an immediate need for the colonization of an additional chapter. We therefore en- courage women to go through rush and investigate the op- portunities already provided by the sororities on campus. The Panhellenic Council has recently established an ex- tension committee to in- vestigate and assist the evenm tual colonization of a fourth sorority. U wHl be up to the Council to select a strong national which will enhance Greek life. We are optimistic that within the next few years Union wiH be prepared to welcome a fourth sorority and that the Panhellenic Council will be strong enough to provide it with the support it deserves. Sincerely, The Panhellenic Council Anti-Semitism Draws Concern To the Editor: Once again we find it necessary to express disgust at the appearance of swastikas and anti-Jewish slogans on a Jewish Student Union poster. Unfortunately this has har- ppened numerous times and past comments have had no effect. If this is a joke, it is in very poor taste. However, if it is serious we are facing a grave malady. Besides the shamelessness of the person(s) who committed this anti-Jewish act we are appalled by the implicit agreement of his~her peers who did not stop this reoccurrence. We are not condemning the whole campus, but rather, those who are willing to live with anti- Semitism. Sincerely, Mike Factor President JSU RavitAvni Vice President Scott Bernstein Treasurer SharonKass Secretary A Question of Entertainment To the Editor: We, the members of the Women's Network, disapprove of the showing of pornographic films on Union College campus. We feel that they promote distorted views of human relationships and portray both women and men as mere sex objects. Although we do not necessarily object to sexually explicit scenes in films, we feel that movies such as \Wanda Whips Wallstreet\ only exploit human sexuality. While some may consider this type of film \entertainment we feel that it reinforces the destructive sexual attitudes which are already too prevalent in our society. The Women's Network Campus Pornography .. An Objection To the Editor: At the February 6 meeting of the Newman Club it was unanimously agreed to express our disalip,·oval of the por- nographic film shown ()D campus. The disapproval centered on: 1. The use of our student activities fee to promote por- nography on campus. 2. The abuse of the body without consideration of the individual. While the Newman Club Further Protest To the Editor: We of the Union College Christian Fellowship would like to express our concern about the fact that an X-rated fihn is being shown on campus. (By the time af this printing it will have been shown.) These films depict people in a dehumanizing way, and we believe that this contributes to problems in society and harm- ful attitudes on campus. These films have effects on various levels. They affect the people involved in making them, and also anyone who sees them. Many students have become concerned over the fact that our money is being used to obtain sexually exploitive films. We, as an organization on campus, respectfully request that the Film Committee and anyone else involved in bringing these films to the campus please reconsider their position in this matter. Sincerely, Patty Winters, President Cheryl Harkness, Secretary-Treasurer Union College Christian Fellowship recognizes the importance of principle. Pornographic films freedom of choice, the removal may be viewed off campus. of pornographic films from campus does not violate this NewrnJln Club Editors ... in-Chief NewsEditor · Associate News Editor Features Editors Arts Editors Campus Page Editors Sports.Ediror Assoc. Sports Editor Advertising Editors Julie Abel.rnan,Donna Getson Gayle Rosenfeld Jan Baran Dave Fitzgerald,'Frankl.inSchneider Debbie Albert; KarenLissauet Karen Greaves, Jill Kaufman Drew Hurley Lynn 0'13rien Mary Ann Gagliardi Heidi Rosen Associate Advertising Editor Ellen Slipp Coriunentary Page Editor Peter Mohr Photc Editor Jon Barofsky Sports Photo Editors Robert Tang, Bonnie RO$enberg Subscription Editors . Mitch Bernstein, Jinl Campbell Political Cartoonist David Neiblum Staff Doug Baumgarten, Richard Biege-:n, Tom Blackburn, Marcy.Burstiner, SarahCalderini, Jim Campbell, Tod D-im.mick Mtk:e . Fox, Lisa Freed, Kim Galow, LynnHano, red Kendris, Douglas.Langholz, Brian Laux, Dave Marin, Robin Molell.a,I..ori Oliwensteinj Sharon Pearl, Judy l?Jrllipson, Linda Raffaele, Wendy Richards~ Rob Rissell,De~bie Rose, ~tefanieSpanier, Janice Thompoon, Betsy Trertler, AJ White, Scott Wykoff PhotnStaff Jim Campoell,David Dworkin, Larry Kami~Wty, Liz Karazim, Paul ~lein, Pa.t Merritt, Steve Robbins, Steve ShapJ.ro, Frank Slm:dna CONOOR.DIENSIS is pttblishe<f eVel\Y Thursdai by tb~ student body of Union College, Carnegie H:tll,. Schenectady,· New· York 12300; Publications .Office: · susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box388~ Sidney, New York13638 (607) 563 .. . 7151.. Entered. in the SChen<letady Post Office as first class matter. Subscription. rate, $!8 .p_er year, deliveted anywhere· in tllelTnited States .. Office Tel(!p)lone,;:,S70-6155. (JONOOR:DmN'SIS, subscribes to the College Press Service . (CPS), and utilizes thepollege News B.ureatt (CNB). · - . To the SincE a fede create vices disable pleasw enthus student childte Do 3' have E would break, vacatiu say, tl we've away vacatiu someti.J their cl Thar student sselaer

CONCORDIENSIS, February9, 1984 Page9 ¥olunteers Needed To the Editor: Sinc.e I've been the Director of a federal grant designed to create respite, or relief, ser- vices for pa,rents with a disabled child.,. I've had the pleasgre of enjoying the bright enthusiasm that college students show in working with childten with special needs. Do you think your readers , have ever wondered what it would be like not to have a break, no Decel;llber seasonal vacation, no Spring break, for, say, thirteen ·years? Parents we've talked to haven't been away .from their . home on vacation for five, eleven, and sometimes thirteen years since their child was born. Thanks to many college students in the Albany, Ren .. sselaer, and other areas; we at . the Respite Project have been able to offer a Friday night out to some of the parents who •ve called us. After going through a 16-hour training :session, the students have met a family who lives nearby, who teaches .the student how to care for their child in(lividually. I'm writing because we need more caring people like the volunteers we have now. For the Pr~med, Hutnim Services, Nursing, and Social Work students, this e:xpel'ience means an excellent addition to their resume (both the training and the experience working With one child). that ineans everythjng in the tight job market. Flo:r other~, tbe tim.e they give is small compared to what it means to two parents who haven't been out fora quiet dinner for two m years. I hope you will print this so students who read your paper will have an ppportunity totune into what they can do to help in their community. We hope potential volunteers will call us at 457- 0443. Diane Dean ERDS Respite Project Congrats! , To the Editor: l've heard students complain about the lack of \good\ con~ certs at Union this year. Well, this' past Saturday I heard one of the finest--a wonderful performance by Union . and Wheaton College Glee Clubs. Congratulations! Heidi Horak '84 U.S. NAVY MED.ICINE MEDICAL SCHOOL SCHOlARSHIP PROGRAM Are you seeking a way to ltelp finance your medical school education? The NAVY has a perfect oppcsrtunlty In its Medical School· Scholarstllp program. · B.ENEFITS • Full tuition and educational fees · • $479.00 per month stipend • Commission as a United States Naval Officer • Internship & Residency training available . upon graduation .· · • Practice at one of 23 hospitals nationwide or nine overseas locations . OBLIGATION • A minimum of 3 years after graduation. • 45 days of reqqlred annual active duty that can be spent in, Navy clerkships, (required. elective, clinical or research) or at Officer l·ndoctrination Schoal., BASIC QUALIFICATIONS • U.S. citizen • Exeellent professional references • Accepted to an AM.Aapproved medical scbool APPLICATION DEADLINE: MARCH 1, 1984 For further lnformatlan. write or call: LT. John Romac Medical Officer ,pregram Leo w. O'Brien -Federal Bldg NY12207 . 472•4424 Rock-ri-Roll Pizza Pub Free Delivery 370-6060. Large Pizza (8 cut) - Small Pizza (6 cut) 4.85 3.75 Pepperoni Sausage X-cheese Mushroom Peppers Onions 8 cut 6 cut !¢*********** 1.00 .. 75 1.00 . .75 free Pub Cookie 1.00 .75 with any full sub .75 .50 .. 75 .50 2/9.2/15 .75 .50 ************ Also our full line ·of Q;reat ·sub sandwiches~ Open 7 days a week. COMMENTARIES Capital News By JACK ANDERSON andJOESPEAR WASHINGTON-The Justice · Department official in charge of juvenile justice, ·Alfred S. Regnery, appears to have some curious ideas about the causes of and cures for delinquency. At his Senate confirmation hearings, Regnery advocated harsh puntsh.ment for juvenile offenders. He used to display a . bumper $icker that asked: · ''Have you slugged your kid today?\ Last October, we reported that Regnery wan.ted to spend $500,000 to test yoUng boys for criminal tendencies. According to the .project proposal, the intinitial test group would have been made up Of'2,000 boys aged 9 to 12 ''who have had their first . contact with the police.\ The .kids were to be checked 'for such physical charac- teristics as lefthandedness, \malfonned ears, low-set ears, asymmetrical ears, soft pliable ears, no ear lobes, high steepled palate, furrowed tongue, smooth tongue with rough spots, curved fingers, Wide gap bet- ween first and second toes, lilDd third toe longer than the second/' Our disclosures blew up a starm of protest and Justice Department officials beat a hasty retreat. Now Regnery is proposing to spend $800,000 on a project to evaluate the reac- tions of children to poro nography. The researchers who proposed the study want to determine the biological, hormonal and neurological responses of juveniles as they read sexually oriented magazines and watch pornographic filins. The findings are supposed to help the researchers figure out whether exposure to por- nography will cause juveniles to become criminals. According to the proposal, the researchers would fan out across the country and collect \media scenarios\ that depict ''murder, mutilation, bloody confrontation, adolescent, inter- - generational and promiscuous sex, individual and gang rape, sexual battery, incest~ child· sexual abuse, sadism, forced anal-oral copulation, etc.\ An \expert team\ of specialists will then examine the materials to determine whether they cause \juvenile delinquency, runaways, teenage pregnancy, mayhem, rape in gangs or as individuals, murder, alcohol and drug abuse, pederasty, child prostitution . . . incest, rape, torture . . . mutilation.\ A Justice Department official insisted there would be no ex- periments conducted on children. Such data is available, he said, from studies that have already been conducted. Who submitted children to these pornographic tests? The official acknowledged that some of the experilnents may have been ffuanced by the federal government. POOR PLANNING: When two Navy jets were downed while conducting bombing raids in Lebanon last December, U.S. officials insisted the mission had: been well-planned and executed and that the losses were \acceptable.\ But we have spoken to military experts who recently returned from the Middle East, and they say the raids were a tractical disaster. Here's why: -The aircraft were launched from carriers in the Mediterranean Sea, within sight of a Soviet intelligence vessel and a warship. The Soviets certainly alerted the Syrians and they were laying in wait when the U.S. planes showed up. . ·-A specialized electronic warfare escort jet, designed to jam enemy radar, was not used on the mission. -The planes ran short of flares (used as decoys for heat- seeking missiles). and \chaff\ (shreds wrapped in pl~stic that are used to confuse enemy radar). -The planes spent too milch time over their targets- in an apparent effort to avoid hitting innocent civilians. But this noble gesture came to naught· when one of the downed jets crashed into a coastal town and injured seven bystanders. EXECUTIVE MEMO: During a General Services Administration auction of surplus boats, a collections officer took in about $95,000 in cash. But when she went to deposit the money, she came up $1,710 short. Under the rUles, she was compelled to make up the loss out of her own pocket. Her employers determined she was not atfault, but the General Accounting Office, which reviews such matters, over- tumedthe ruling on the grounds that the circumstances surrounding the loss were \sufficient to raise a presumption of negligence.\ -The president's Middle East envoy, Donald Rumsfeld, receives hom~to-office tran- sportation in government automobiles when he is in Washington. U s11ally, such service is provided oruy for higholevel officials who live in the Washington area, but the State Department put I. in a special request for penmsston to provide transport for Rumsfeld. It was granted, even though Rumsfeld stays in a hotel suite when he is in the capital. UNDER THE DOME: Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, believes the Democrats are speaking through their hats about the possibility of fielding a women vice-presidential candidate this year, \They'll talk about it .a lot,\ he says, \but they won't do it.\ -Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, D-Ohio, says that his \first failing is the ability to remember jokes and my second is the ability to tell_ them.\ Commentaries represent the views of the author and not the Editorial ·Board of CON- . CORDIENSIS.

I CONCORDIENSIS, Fehrua1:r 9, 1984 Page9 Volunteers Needed To the Editor: Since I've been the Director of a federal grant designed to create respite, or relief, ser- vices for .parents with a disabled child, I've had the pleasure of enjoying the bright enthusiasm that college students show in working with children with special needs. Do you think your readers have ever wondered what it would be like not to have a break, no December seasonal vacation, no Spring break, for, say, thirteen years'? Parents we've talked to haven't been away from their home on vacation for five, eleven, and sometimes thirteen years since their child was born. Thanks to many college students in the Albany, Ren- sselaer, and other areas, we at the Respite Project have been able to offer a Friday night out to some of the parents who've called us. After going through a 16-hour training session, the students have met a family who lives nearby, who teaches .the student how to care for their child individually. I'm writing because we need more caring people like the volunteers we have now. For the Pre-med, Human Services, Nursing, and Social Work students, this experience means an excellent addition to their reswne (both the training and the experience working with one child) that means everything in the tight job market. For other~, the time they give is small compared to what it means to two parents who haven't been out for a quiet dinner for two in years. I hope you wiU print this so students who read your paper will have aA opportunity to tune in to what they can do to help in their community. We hope potential volunteers will call us at 457- 0443. Diane Dean ERDS Respite Project Congrats! To the Editor: I've heard students complain about the lack of \good\ con- certs at Union this year. Well, this past Saturday I heard one of the finest--a wonderful performance by Union and Wheaton College Glee Clubs. Congratulations! Heidi Horak '84 U.S. NAVY MEDICINE MEDICAL SCHOOL SCHOlARSHIP PROGRAM Are you seeking a way to help finance your medical school education? The NAVY has a perfect opportunity In Its Medical School Scholarship program. BENEFITS e Full tuition and educational fees • $479.00 per month stipend • Commission as a United States Naval Officer • Internship & Residency training available upon graduation • Practice at one of 23 hospitals nationwide or nine overseas locations OBLIGATION • A minimum of 3 years after graduation. • 45 days of required annual active duty that can be spent in Navy clerkships, (required, elective, clinical or research) or at Officer Indoctrination School. BASIC QUALIFICATIONS • U.S. citizen • Excellent professional references • Accepted to an AMA approved medical school APPLICATION DEADLINE: MARCH 1, 1984 For further Information. write or call: LT. John Romac Medical Officer Program Leo W. O'Brien Federal Bldg Albany, NY 12207 (518) 472-4424 Rock-n-Roll Pizza Pub Free Delivery 370-6060 Large Pizza (8 cut) Small Pizza (6 cut) 8 cut 6 cut 4 .. 85 3.75 ~*********** Pepperoni l.OO .75 Sausage 1.00 .75 Free Pub Cookie X-cheese 1.00 .75 with any full sub Mushroom .75 .50 Peppers .75 .50 219-2/15 Onions .75 .50 ************ Also our full line of great sub sandwiches. Open 7 days a week. COMMENTARIES Capital News ByJACKANDERSON and JOE SPEAR WASHINGTON-The Justice Department official in charge of juvenile justice, ·Alfred S. Regnery, appears to have some curious ideas about the causes of and cures for delinquency. At his Senate confirmation hearings, Regnery advocated harsh punishment for juvenile offenders. He used to display a bumper sticker that asked: \Have you slugged your kid today?\ Last October, we reported · that Regnery wanted to spend $500,000 to test young boys for criminal tendencies. According to the project proposal, the intinitial test group would have been made up of 2,000 boys aged 9 to 12 \who have had their first contact with the police.\ The kids were to be checked ' for such physical charac- teristics as lefthandedness, \malformed ears, low-set ears, asymmetrical ears, soft pliable ears, no ear lobes, high steepled palate, furrowed tongue, smooth tongue with rough spots, curved fingers, wide gap bet- ween first and second toes, and third toe longer than the second.\ Our disclosures blew up a st~rm of protest and Justice Department officials beat a hasty retreat. Now Regnery is proposing to spend $800,000 on a project to evaluate the reac- tions of children to por- nography. The researchers who proposed the study want to determine the biological, hormonal and neurological responses of juveniles as they read sexually oriented magazines and watch pornographic films. The findings are supposed to help the researchers figure out whether exposure to por- nography will cause juveniles to become criminals. According to the proposal, the researchers would fan out across the country and collect \media scenarios\ that depict \murder mutilation, bloody confrontation, adolescent, inter- generational and promiscuous sex, individual and gang rape, sexual battery, incest, child- sexual abuse, sadism, forced anal-oral copulation, etc.'' An \expert team\ of specialists will then examine the materials to determine whether they cause \juvenile delinquency, runaways, teenage pregnancy, mayhem, rape in gangs or as individuals, murder, alcohol and drug abuse, pederasty, child prostitution . . . incest, rape, torture ... mutilation.\ A Justice Department official insisted there would be no ex- periments conducted on children. Such data is available, he said, from studies that have already been conducted. Who submitted children to these pornographic tests? The official acknowledged that some of the experiments may have been financed by the federal government. POOR PLANNING: When two Navy jets were downed while conducting bombing raids in Lebanon last December, U.S. officials insisted the mission had been well-planned and executed and that the losses were \acceptable.\ But we have spoken to military experts who recently returned from the Middle East, and they say the raids were a tractical disaster. Here's why: -The aircraft were launched from carriers in the Mediterranean Sea, within sight of a Soviet intelligence vessel and a warship. The Soviets certainly alerted the Syrians and they were laying in wait when the U.S. planes showed up. --A specialized electronic warfare escort jet, designed to jam enemy radar, was not used on the mission. ..... The planes ran short of flares (used as decoys for heat- seeking missiles) and \chaff\ (shreds wrapped in plastic that are used to confuse enemy radar). -The planes spent too much time over their targets in an apparent effort to avoid hitting innocent civilians. But this noble gesture came to naught when one of the downed jets crashed into a coastal town and injured seven bystanders. EXECUTIVE MEMO: During a General Services Administration auction of surplus boats, a collections officer took in about $95,000 in cash. But when she went to deposit the money, she came up $1,710 short. Under the rules, she was compelled to make up the loss out of her own pocket. Her empleyers determined she was not at fault, but the General Acc(:mnting Office, which reviews such matters, over- turned the ruling on the grounds that the circumstances surrounding the loss were \sufficient to raise a preswnption of negligence.\ -The president's Middle East envoy, Donald Rumsfeld, receives home-to-office tran- sportation in government automobiles when he is in Washington. Usually, such service is provided only for high-level officials who live in the Washington area, but the State Department put , in a special request for pennission to provide transport for Rumsfeld. It was granted, even though Rumsfeld stays in a hotel suite when he is in the capital. UNDER THE DOME: Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, believes the Democrats are speaking through their hats about the possibility of fielding a women vice-presidential candidate this year. \They'll talk about it a lot,\ he says, \but they won't do it., -Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, D-Ohio, says that his \first failing is the ability to remember jokes and my second is the ability to tell them.\ WOOL.t> A.N\t'U>T:>... mu.'l oSl'eCr W..vt.,!Eo- A MlDn:RM eYNA 1wF~ WMaTtMe?\ Commentaries represent the views of the author and not the Editorial Board of CON- CORDIENSIS.

0 Cl c Q) 0 E 0 1- >- J:l 0 - 0 ..c c Page /0 CONCORD/EN.WS, Fehruurl' 9, 1984 THE ARTS Our Men Can Really Sing By STEF ANIE SPANIER I'm sure you've heard your friendS, or even yourself say, there's nothing to do in Schenectady. Believe me, I thought the same thing. But, (yes, the big BUT!) what about some of the activities on .campus? There are sporting events, Cabarets, movies, lectures and concerts! Why just this past Saturday .night, there was a delightful concert right on campus given .by the Union College Men's Glee Club and the Wheaton College Women's Glee Club. Yes, right here, in Memorial Chapel! Union College Men's Glee CllJb. Whether you ignored the signs posted advertising the concert or not---1 de know that most of you ilid not attend this concert. 'I Rock at the Rat On Thursday night at 10 p.m., the Union College Rathskellar welcomes The Colby Sno Revue for an evening of high powered music. Colby Sno is an ole' rough'ri'tumble cowboy from Waco, Texas. Colby Sno is also one of the hottest and possibly the only Texas-Progressive sound around these parts. Having performed througheut the southwestern and southern sections of this country, Colby Sno is .something different and fresh to tbe northeast. With a unique blend of guitar, fiddle, and vocal harmonies, their songs range from their own deeply energized originals to old blues and ragtime classics, along with their own arrangements of some of the familiar melodies of today and yesterday. The group was featured last August in concert by the Lake George Arts Project, and; has performed at Caffe Lena in Saratoga, Denver Folk Lore Center in Colorado, High Horse in Oklahoma City, arid Justin McNeil's in Albany, New York, to name just a few. Colby has also appeared in concert with .such notables as Arlo Guthrie, Pete Seeger, Jerry Jeff Walker, J?(m McLean, and one rollicking street festival with U. Utah Phillips. Currently a five-piece unit, the Colby Sno- Revue is com- posed of Doag Dickens on lead vocals., guitar and harmonica; Beth Kirkpatrick on violin; Michael Tremante on lead guitar; John Smythe on congas and percussion; and Dennis McCafferty on drums. Dickens and Kirkpatrick being the founding'members of the Revue have traveled extensively throughout the South and South- west bringing their own brand of rock and blues to clubs and · concert stagas. Tremante, a Johnstown native, attended the Berkeley School of Music in Boston. Michael, an accomplished jazz guitarist has performed with the Carl Landa Group and Metrobop. John Smythe (Sussex, England) comes to the revue from such groups as True Friends, Downtime and Himalaya. Percussionist ex- traordinaire John has traveled extensively in Europe with various artists. on the European circuit. Dennis McCafferty is the newest member of the revue and has just returned from New York City where he has his own new wave group called The Ushers. Go Back in Time For most students on this campus, the idea of going to a 1983 Yearbooks On Sale NOW in Mrs. Marra's Office $15 Renaissance Music- co-ncert does not seem to be too much fun. However, it is very im· portant for students to broaden their musical interests. Although most of the students at the concert on Friday night, Feb. 3, were from an art class, it was nice to see them there. The concert consisted of three performers. Each of them sang, and played an array of in- struments. Most of the in· struments were old types of recorders and fiddles. The performers were Lisle Kulback, Christine Rua, and Julian Cole. All three of them have studied and performed Renaissance music, and are therefore very knowledgeable and talented ill this area. They performed beautifully, and the performance quality was topnotch. Due to the time period of the music, Medieval and Renaissance, most of the music dealt with religion or love. Before each song was per· formed, Jlllian Cole gave a brief synopsis about the song's meaning and its time period. This was very helpful since the words were in either Latin or French. The Department of the Arts is always having .cultural activities, and it is very nice for a lot of students to attend. The concert on Friday night was very enjoyable, and I am glad that I went and learned about Renaissance music. The Concordy always lists what is going on here at the campus, so let's all try and support the arts. Mountebanks' Niteclub is Back Do you remember the Mountebanks - Metropolitan Niteclub, which was presented just about a year ago? For those who couldn't make it-the evening was loads of fun. Well, they're doing it again! On Friday, February 10, at 8:30 and 11:00 Mountebanks will be presenting its second annual Niteclub. This year's promises to be even better than the last. This year's theme is a spoof on the many awards ceremonies which regularly assault our intelligence. Not only will you be entertained by some of the best musicians Union College has to offer, but some fun and exciting surprises have been thrown into tbe evening. The performers will include: Ruth Ewing acting as the Master of Ceremonies, Jodi Cohen, Phil Spoor, Judybeth Greene, Naomi. Blank, Steve Strunsky, Luke Fanon, Tracey Kaufman, Diane Sedak, Nick ' Moran, and . Tonuny Higgins. Tickets for this cavalcade of stars are available at the Student Activities Box Office for $1.50. The price of the ticket includes beer, punch, and munchies (bnagine that!). If you didn't come last year, don't miss out on all the fun again II This week on WRUC Sports· Tomorrow-~ Union Hockey vs Bowdoin .7:15 Saturday--~ockey vs Colby 3:45 Tuesday--Hockey vs Plattsburgh 7:15 Wednesday ... Sportsline with special guest Jiggs McDonald 11:00 Hockey • Basketball • Football ....._ ___ Three Winners on America's oldest $fation1.-· _ ___, also know that you missed- a pleasaQt hour (:yes, only one hour) of choral music, which may or may not be your favorite form of music, but the concert was very good aitd the program included, ''Aura Lee'' by Poulton.Shaw, \Loch Lomend\ by R Vaughan Williams and \Nigra Swn\ by Pablo Casals, contetn:porary pieces which were performed welt The enthusiasm and energy were great and all the performers seemed to be enjoying them- selves. The concert began promptly at 8:30 with the men's solo portion .. Our 28 men filled the Chapel with a great melodious sound; the concentrated, central sound made them seem like double the singers. Their balance and range of dynamics were striking and well or'- chestrated under the talented hand of Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, director of the Men's Glee Club. They are a very good group and with the har- monization, intonation and overall musicality shown by the Club, it is readily seen how they can so easily overcome' their UHbalanced cast of singers. (They need tenors and hint~ hine-I'm. sure the Glee Club would welcome any new members. This goes for the Union Women's Glee Club as well! ). The next part of the concert involved the women of Wheaton singing their solo section. The-y have a sweet, light, airy sound, and they performed well with their new director Guy Urban. A few pieces had a student conductor and they, as well as the rest of their program were nicely done. Because of a change in the program, \Now Glad of Heart, Be Everyone\ by Edga;r Auf- demberger was the final piece in the Women's solo .section. A(!cornpanied by Guy Urban on piano and Lee i\nn McKenna on flute, it proved to be quite an impressive· piece. The final third <>f the concert, Mozart's \Coronation Mass,'' was trtily the highlight of the 'entire evening's performance. Accompanied by Memorial Chapel's pipe organ, the two Glee Clubs created a magnWcent, full, soniferous execution ef the Mass. (And the Clubs have only l)racticed together twice!) The men, however, at times did over· power the women in sound; it seemed as though half of Wheaton's group was missing. There were four professional soloists, during tbe Mass; who also did a very commendable job. Kudos to all. I'm sorry to say there were almost more people on stage than in tire audience but besides that, I'm sure you know someone or are friendly with, or at least recognize; someone in the Men's Glee Club -who you could have gone tQ see. It's nice to see friendly .fa(!es instead of e:rnpty .seats in the audience staring back at you. If you missed this concert, which did last just ()Ver an h. our, there will he another Men's Glee Club concert in three weeks, on F'ebruary 25, in conjunction with the Regis Women's Glee· Club. I hope to se€' you there. Apathy is a constant theme running through this paper and this college, but it needn't be that way. You don't have to broaden your horizons, but would it hurt to g~ to a: concert or a lect11re and then get down to your own business at the 'Skellar or the Pub, a little later in the evening? 14th Century Trio performing at Memqrial Chapel. (' ·~--:---.<....~~ -..--, ~ i.' • ,..._·~- ...... ~\\'< ~ ............. ~· . ~~ by Alan A.yckbourn January 28- February 19 Comic intrigues abound in the English countryside. Corporate sponsor: Sterling-Winthrop Research:lnstitute/ Sterling Drug Inc. Performances: Tuesday-Saturday 8:00pm; Sunday 2:30pm and Wednesday, Feb. i, 2:30pm Non Student Tickets $8-$13 $tudents with I. D. % price Tuesday-Thursday evenings, and Sunday Matinee. Limited availability 30 minutes before curtain, 111 North PeariStreet,Aibany, NewYork 518·462-4534 Tickets available atThe Market Theatr€.andCommunity Box Offices. MasterCard and VISA aooepted. (No refunds or >- ::.t. .II) .... 0 t.. 10 OJ c:: 0 ...., ~>- .0 ~ ..c a. s Livi leave· laugbi later l theCa but so I.Jvil parto: Norm playw in th thrEe an irr. great • get on a lines envy, dersta hey? l The play i~ Wh()Se make Needl~ doesnl by Ja Joan' the t Cland~ startli game Wh() f seduc• room1 seduct same ou:t at ventw Livi that· irresi~ of life the C; until 1

CONCORDIENSIS, February 9, 1984 Page 11 Stage Happenings 8yTOD DIMMICK LIVing Together threatens to leave one short of breath from laughing too much. Sooner or later rm going to finda play at the Capital Rep th~t I don't like, but so .far I can't complain. Uving Together is the second part ofth.e popular trilogy, \The Norman Conquests,\ by playwright Alan Ayckbourn. Set in the · .English countryside, throee couples get together for an .impr<>mptu · reunion. Being great friends; they immediately get on each other's nerves and almost ldll each other through envy, adultery and misun- der-standings. Sounds lilte fun, hey? It is. Trying my hardest to procrastinate classwork, I figured \why not?\ and saw two p~ays last weekend. I ~m glad I did. Sunday I had mY introduction to ESIPA (The Empire State Institute .for the Performing Arts),. more casually referred to as \The Egg\ in Albany, and saw Arthur Miller's The Cr.ttdble. The building is hard to miss, so directions could be simply \look for the :weirdest building.\ Located at tbe Empire State Plaza, . the complex · houses: offices, restaurants, convention centers and ample free parking. Ticket prices are more , than reasonable, and even the refreshments are inexpensive. The theatre itself iS modern, and the 950 seats break with usual theatre tradition in that they are comfortable and have plenty ofleg room, There are no obstructed views, and there are .designed acoustics. Walking in, one has the impression of overwhelming size, 'with 50-foot celllngs. Seeing the building is a . show before the show.· 1692 and the political injustices of the 1950's in America, the era .of McCarthyism. Outside .in· tentions or not, Miller got his point acrQss. Mankind can be swept up by scandal and superstition to a point beyond control. The examples are terrifying. John Proctor, played by John Thomas McGuire III, is the victim of a weakness of the flesh; but, more importantly, of his own guilt. The energetic . actor portrays his role with talent · and high-powered emotion. His performance was outstanding, and well worth the trip. The performance of ac- tress Jeanne Vigliante was also good, but showed less depth and energy. The young and selfish wench, Abigail Williams, played by Helena Binder, also showed vibrant energy.· Through this successful portrayal, the lives, dreams and terror of these people becomes clearer. We that would try to be more civilized than that cannot help but learn from this powerful message. THE ARTS Jeanne Vigliante and John T\homas McGuire Ill in a scene from Arthur Miller's The Crucible. The main character of this play is a fellow named Nr;>rman, wh()se sole purpose in life is to ma:ke an .women happy. Needless to say, his wife Ruth doesn't go for that idea .. Played by Jame's Goodwin Rice and Joan Grant, they form one of the three hilarious couples. Clandestine meetings lead ~to startling discoveries. Norman argues with his Wife about separation while in tile backgro11nd, Reg (Michael Arkin) keeps asking why nobody wants to .play a new game he invented. Norman, whc for some ·reason loves to seduce women on the living room rug, faces the challenge to seduce his own wife on that same spot; just after she found otit about his other misad- ventures! The Crucible, set amidst imaginative, eerie props, was a great succ;ess. Because of the nature of the people it portrays; the play is not subtle; rather it is blunt and superstitious action that shocks us into unQ derstanding. The tale of the Salem witch hunts in the late 1600's is a popular one. Arthur Miller used these historical events and characters to base his controversial play upon. The controversy does not concern the play itself, but the time when it was first released. Critics drew parallels between the irrational witch hunts of Bach Versus Bock Living Together is a fun play that · will get you laughing irresistably. For the lighter side of life, see Living Together at the Capital Repertory Theatre until February 19, . By ERIC LIPMAN It's two-thirty in the af- ternoon, and the sun is shining through the far window. The long bookshelves crammed tight with records e~end all along the stack room adjacent to the studio. Katja Bock flips through a number of albums, pausing every so often to Navy Gold: Forged In a Tradition of Exf;ellence Because the.Officers wearhtg it are the best in th·e world at what they do ... they have to be It takes a special breed of aviator to meet the challenges of Naval. Aviation. Strong, dedicated and professional men who can control the world's most sophisticated aircraft. There's no room over the oceans for pilots that are second-best. Beneath the surface pulses a unique environment few will ever· challenge. Only an· uncompromised standatd of ·excellence earns a submariner his dolphins. The Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officers wear them. io find out ifyou're.qualified, see the Navy Represen- tative that will be in the Campus Center on February 15. or call collect (518) 472·4424 Navy Officers Get Respoaslbllity Fast. examine a new. discovery with great interest, making selec- tions and putting .back others. She has planned out her show in great detail; Rachmaninoff will have to wait, today it will be Vivaldi's Four Seasons. her show both fun and in- teresting, is that Katja is able to pick new themes out of clom- positions that are hundreds of years old. As John Euell adds, the classical progranuning on Sundays is for both the classical enthusiast on campus, as well as the novice who is looking for a pleasant change of pace.And the listeners seem to bear them out; the overwhelming number of requests are for the com- posers of antiquity and not for their more modern coun- terparts. Cradling her classical treasures in her arms as she moves from the stacks back into A-Studio, she knows that she is an individual; Katja plays classical music on what is largely a progressive radio station. Does she feel out of place? Hardly. \I think it is important for the radio station to introduce a variety of m11sic,\ she says smiling confidently, \and my show is helping to explore new themes .. So, Whether it be for some music to study by on Sunday afternoon-or a soothing break-you are invited to join Katja as she brings the classics closer to the campus com- \ Yet what makes listening to . munity. DISNEY AUDITION TOUR '84 lWO EXCITING ENTERTAINMENT EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES 1. The WILT DISNEY WORLD- vacation Kill!1klm, near Orlando, Florida, is seeking professional Singers. Dancers and Musical Theatre Al:tors/Actresses. Most positlofiS are tor full one-year contraCtS With scme summer seasoniil employment also available. Sorry,!!, professlonaJ.Instrumentallst auditions. 2. The \WILT DISNEY WORLD Vacation Kingdom and DISNEYLANOC (located in Anaheim, California) are fomJing a 22- member All American C I Band for eooh Palk. plus. a 40-member H meri s rchestra to perlorm at EPCOT Center. pos t1ons are summer· enY,Jioyment, beginning June 4 and concluding on August18. AUDITION REQUIREMENTS ALL AUDITIONEES: • Must be 18 years of age by June 1, 1984 • ,Must bring a current resume and photograph • Must show movement ability AUDITION SITES NEW YORK, NEW YORK February 18-19, 1984 TALENT AUDITION: COLLEGE MUSICIANS Minskoff Rehearsal Studios Del Terzo Studios 1515 Broadway Carnegie Hall/8th Floor Audition call: Females· 10 a.m. 154 West 57th Street Males- 2 p.m. Aud1tHm call: iO am-5 p.m. Join the \World\ ll!aders in family entertainment! For additional audltioo requirements or if yoo need furiher inloonation, please call cr write \Disney AUdition Tour'84,\ Entertainment.Division; P.O. Box 40, Lake Buena Vista FL 32830; (305) 824-5478,(Moooay-Ffiday only, 9:00am to 4:00p.m EST). • •9«1 w-.~ t_OISNii\ ltl'IQOIJC ItO .. $

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, F( 1 hrmu:r 9. 1984 CAMPUS NEWS INTERNSHIPS Internships in the Delivery of Social Services-(Sociology 61} will be available this spring term. Internships will .be at social service agencies, rehabilitation centers and hospitals. in the local area. For more information see Professor Weiner. Applications must be in by February 20th. The New York State Energy Office: Two paid intern positions in the Bureau of Industry, Commerce and TransportaUon under the Energy Advisory Service to Industry Program. More in- formation available in CDC. The Metropolitan Museum of Art: Offering summer in· temships for jUniors, . seniors and recent graduates. Deadline for application is Feb. 27. Details available in CDC. The Assembly Summer Intern Program: Provides an opportunity for 10 to 20 students to work on research projects supervised by Assembly professional research staff. College students who have completed their junior year by June 1984 may apply: All ap- plicants must be New York State residents. The Summer Intern Program is very com- petitive. Summer Interns have superior Jtcademic records, strong research and analytic skills, and a definite interest in and ~xperience with public policy development as well as interest in state government. Application deadline is March 31, 1984. New York City Internship Program Interested in gaining career related experience this sum- mer? Consider applying for a New York City internship. Major businesses and non-profit organiZations in New York City will be hiring summer interns. Open to qualified Juniors and Seniors. An interview is required. Pick up applications in the CDC. GRADUATE OPPORTUN111E'S The Auxiliary to the American Osteopathic Association is offering scholarships for the study of osteopathic medicine. Eligibility is based on both high scholastic standing and financial need. More in- formation and applications are available in the Financial Aid Office. The Electrical Women's Round Table, Inc., offers a $2,000 annual followship to a woman studying for a career in a field related to electrical energy. The award is based on both scholarship and need. More information and ap- plications are available in the Financial Aid Office. The President's Committee on Mental Retardation is of- fering a $5,000 scholarship for advanced study in the field of mental retardation. To be eligible you must have a 3.0 GPA, show financial need, and be able to prove your par- ticipation in volunteer activities with mentally retarded persons. More information and ap· plications are available in the Financial Aid Office. · Bell Laboratories offers fellowships and grap.ts to women entering a doctoral program in . a science or engineering field. More in· formation artd applications are available in the Financial .Aid Office. The Rotary Foundation of Rotary International is offering an exciting array ofscholarships to use for study abroad at all levels of education. Generally, tuition, room and board are paid by the Rotary Foundation. For more inf~rmation, ~op by the Financial Aid Office. The Financial Aiel Office has information on scllolarship assistance to minority students in the graduate study of husiness, engineering, law and political science. · SPEAKERS Douglas $outar. Vice President of Indu$trial R~lations, ASARCO, Inc~ will be speaking en The Outlook on Industrial Relations in the 1980s on February 9, 1984-3:45 P.M. in Room 312, Bailey Hall, Union College. J ,S. U. Speaker on Monday, February 13 at 8:00 p.m. Uri Dagan, will be speaking on \From the worker's paradise to the Jewish Homeland; a modern odessy.\ CLUB NEWS The Union Coll«;!ge Gaming Association is .sponsoring an AD&D Tournament on February 17 and 18. Call X6944 for more. information. The Union College Dance Club is presenting the total \Taylor Experience'' with the Paul Taylor Dance Co. A Masterclass will be held. Sat. Feb. 11th 12:00 p.m.-1:30 p.m. · for only $3. Rehearsals will be at Procter's Fri. and Sat. Feb. lOth and 11th at no charge. Performances will be Fri. and Sat. Feb. loth and 11th at Proctors 8: 00 p.m. Sign up today on the 2nd floor oft he Arts ·Building. The Black and Latin Alliance of Students .presents the fourth Annual Gospel Program on Sunday Feb. 12 at 4:00 p.m. in the · Memorial Chapel. Admission is free for Union College students. Newman Club is sponsoring a Valentine visiHo Shut-Ins of the Parish of St. J.ohn the Evertgelist Sunday afternoon, February 12th. Club members wUl bring Howers to the parishioners. Folk Group wm meet at 6:30 p.m. Sunday evening to rehearse before leading the Congregation in song at the 7: 30 p;m. Mass Sunday evening, • February 12th. New members .W.elcome. Guitarists still needed. Newman Club Meeting-- Monday, February 13,8:00 p.m. C~rnegie, 4th Floor Lounge .. Campus Ministry Presents- Wednesday evening l'ecture seriE!s. February 15th Sister Jean Kinney, Q.P. and Phil DiSorbo (A Union Graduate and Executive Director of Hospice) will give a joint presentation on the :work of ·the Hospice in Schenectady. Bible Study on Gospel of Matthew. Thursday, February 16, 4.:00 p.m. Campus Ministry Office. . Theatre Party to Proctor'·s to see \Agnes of God\ Thursday, February 16 at 8:00p.m. Group tickets still available at $8.50 each through the Campus Ministry Office ext. 6087. TE11 Worl Franc4 Zeal an The Educa the l. organi offerirl portun surnm servic help in Free 1 keep minim Mod focus sumrn thli! St York. Only stud en· early men de· - al:)out Progr~ Depar1 Educa Progrl Univer: New Y Office .Educat Oppo in Jap~ 1984-85. living' studyir atleast related If y learnh progra: Thurst4 VOL The Cather is sta trainin Spring work familie Men volunt1 week; this tr~ call M: FR PROV CQltlP~ cJ:!ildrE Hl WA energe consis1 placinl campu each s• 6679. stud4 Sales-: clubs, l -Paul Make: Bah~ Five d Pick b ... t• d .0 f, n n w

TERMS ABROAD Work Abroad Programs in France, Britain, Ireland, New Zealand, and now Genu.any. The Council on International Educational Exchange (CIEE), the largest student. travel organization in the U.S., is offering young people the op- portunity to work overseas this summer as volunteers on service projects aimed at helping local communities. Free room and board help to keep participation costs minimal. Modern Israel· ·will be the focus of a special academic S'lUDiller program sponsored by thlil State University of New York. Only a limited number of students can be accepted, and early application is recom~ mended. For specific details \about the 1984 Academic Program in Israel, write Department of International Education, SUNY Summer Program in . .Israel, State University College, Oneonta, New York 13820, or telephone Office of International .Education, 607431--3369. Opportunities exist for study in Japan during the fall term of 1984-85. The program includes living with· a Japanese family, studying Japanese, and taking atleast three additional courses related to East Asia. If you are interested in learning more about the program, please see Professor Thurston, .SS213b. VOLUNTEERS . . ~ The Parent Aide Program at Catherine's Center for Children is starting an eight week training program beginning this Spring for new volunteers to work as Parent Aides with families in Albany County. Men artd women able to volunt~er four to six hours per week and interested in joining this training group are asked to call Mary McCarthy at 482-3331. FREE TRAINING PROVIDED-To babysit or 'be companion for disabled cl:tildren.. HELP WANTED WANTED: Creative, energetic individual to work consistently 2-4 hours per week, placing and filling posters on campus. Earn $500 or more each school year. Calll-4100-243- 6679. Student Wanted-Commission Sales.:..Imprinted sportswear to clubs, frats, etc. Please contact- • Paul Silverstein at 462-3338. Make your own hours. Babysitter for 8 year old boy. Five days a week-afternoons. Pick him .UP from St. John the Health'( VOIU!l• teers with c~ugh due to bronchitis .or a cold• want·ed for itu.dy qf non- narcotic coiJgh medicine. Please call · wu'l,becom~e~~ated. 1 438·4438 Mo.ii • ..fri. 1-4:30 ·Atliihty llfer'r;J_ and · ~sthma S•rYices CONCORDIENSJS, FebruarJ' 9. 1984 Page 13 Evangelist SchQol (across from Union) at 2;30p.m. until4:30 or 5:00 .p.m. Please contact }fary Ellen Mangold after 5 p.m. or weekends at 374-6130. Live-in or sleep in or show up 'by 3:45a.m. to sit for 2 children 3 yrs. and 21 months old. May leave at 7:45a.m. or stay until 1:.30 .p.m. Negotiable-Room & board. Please contact 371-2162 Clifton Park area. · · · The Foreign & Domestic Teachers Orga,n~ation needs teacher applicants in an fields from Kindergarten through College to fill over six hundred teaching vacancies both at home and abroad. Should you wish additional information about our organization, you may write the Portland Oregon Better Business Bur.eau or the National Teachers' Placement Agen.cy,. UNIVERSAL 'TEACHERS, Box 5231, Por- tland, Oregon 97208. Student Dishwasher-Anyone interested please contact Rob Guarino·--370•6414 -MDutch Hollow Pub. Wanted: Artist's models, male or female, for serious sculpture group. $4-5 per hour, depending on experience. Call Prof. Ullman at 37(}.;3233. FINANCIAL AID Financial Aid applications are now available for 198~5. Please pick up yours at . financial aid office in Becker Hall. (Remember you must ' reapply every year.) FAF'$ must be mailed by March 1 so that all forms are received by the April 15 deadline. SCHOLARSHIPS · Applications for the 1984-85 Pennsylvania State Grants for Pennsylvania residents are now available in the Financial Aid Office. The Society of Exploration · Geop.hysicists Educatton Foundation is offedng scholarships to undergraduate and graduate students . in a college course directed toward the study of geophysics. The award is based primarily on academic competence, secondarily on financial need. For an application, which is due by March 1, write to the Foundation at P.O. Box 3098; Tulsa, Oklahoma 74101. The American Society of Naval Engineers is offering non-need-based awards to undergraduate students ·in a program of study related to naval engineering (including Electrical Engineering). Applications, which are due ~Y February 15, are available m the Financial Aid Office. The Union College Film Committee presents: . Mosco.W;ooes Not Believe in Tears--February 10 thru February 12 at 7:30 and10:00. $1 admission. AILittle Romance-Tuesday, Feb; 14 at 7, 9 and 11. $1 ad- 1 ~ssion. · CLASSJFIEDS - - . FOR SALE: Great car-1974 Buick Apollo, 70,000 miles. $800 negotiable, Blaupunkt am-fm ca:;sette. Call Roberta 374-8769. Must Sell: Due to tremendous Phone Bill, I am forced to sell Pro Kennex \Black Ace\ tennis racket. This mid-sized' Graphite racltet cost $140~00 brand new. Will sell for $80;00 (negotiable). Call quicldy .before phone .Is disconnected~ Please! X6613 ask .for George. · Any person interested in playing diplomacy on the weekends please contact Scott at Box 1227. WANTED: a used FORTRAN 77 · green soft cover text. Reasonable. Please Call Sharon at 370-6567. UCGA is sponsoring an AD & D Tournament on Feb .. 17 & 18. Call 6944. WE ARE SPENDING YOUR MONEY AND YOU DON'T CARE! ! ! Come to the meetings on Thursday at 4:30 -in Strauss and find out what's going on. Show the world how talented you are. Perform in the first annual UNION TALENT SHOW on Feb. 18 at i9: 00 in Alunmi. Fill out a form and return to Box 2548. Safe place-a support group for families and friends of suicide victims will meet twice a month on the 2nd and 4th Tuesdays of each month, from 7:30-10:00 pm, at 727 Madison Avenue, Albany (the Friends Meeting House.) For more information call 482.0799. The February meetings will be held on Feb. 14, 1984 and February 28, 1984.- The Northeastern Association of the Blind at Albany will hold its Sixth Annual Radiothon at Colonie Center on Friday, February loth and Saturday, February 11th in conjunction with Radio Station WROW, 59 AM. Second Floor West is spon- soring an All Campus Tuck-in Service. For 25 cents you will receive a bedtime story, a chocolate \goodnight\ kiss and a tuck. Sun. Feb. 12, Mon. Feb. 13, and Tues. Feb. 14., 10:30 p.m.-12:00 a.m. (every 15 min.). Call for an appointment by Sun. Feb. 12, 5 .p.m. Call X6918 or 382- 8835. Alix Dobkin, will perform in concert at Skidmore College, Saturday February 18th at 8:00 p.m. All women are welcome. Admission is $4;00 at the door- more if you can, less if you can't. Please call (518) 58~7458 for additional information. TYPING-fast-accurate. Call Carol 456-1697. Typing done for student~ or professors. Please contact 377- 4215. Scotia area. .PERSONALS . ' To B.S.-Again I say I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Joe, I WANT YOUR PEN-! You Know Who P.S. You'll miss a great party this weekend! ! ! ! ! To the DEB of the YEAR. Happy 22nd birthday! Love, Your Ladies CAMPUS NEWS Jeff, Sorry about the in- vitations! We love yao--The Ladies in Waiting Ya Wanna play TENT? To KB, How's the vending machine been to you lately? Sometimes you feel like a nut!'!! Oh, and I love your tripl~ breasted bra!! Guess Who Soap Opera Question of the Week: Whoshot into MS? Andis he inssing a lock of hair? It is always proper insertion- as long as it's fun! Dearest Mr. A,, I am so glad everything worked out. Remember to believe in yourself, because you are the best. Me 2 Back. Forever and always. Love, Me Beth, Thanks; just check your P.O. Box-something will be arriving soon. You Know Who Lisa: This weekend had better be good ... or at least fun .... worthwhile--well how about interesting?! Stefanie We're keeping it up longer Ra d. k · il' \ ' l;l. 1, eep sm mg ... this summer! Wait -and see. STAM Max and Max~Happy valentines day guys, you know you are my favorite date! Love, Brute Professor Brown~-Happy Valentine's Day!! Happy valentine's day Barton!! You're off the scale in my heart! Love, the Brute Lonely Guy, Ferns are great but you have the nicest eyes. so ....... GO FOR IT!!!!.! I know, I know FOAOS. Marlo: \So guys, what do you think?\ Wendy:\Yes definitely.\ William: \No.\ Stud: \Uh I don't know.\ Send your vote today! Dear Dee-Wy Devo, There's a big hug waiting for you on Valentine's Day ... and every day!!! Thanks for making me feel so . special. .. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! ! ! Love, Beth Rockin' Rob-Happy Valentine's Day! Love, Marce Debbie: Stay away from my \' Lo . Tom and Dave-can Joe come soap.·· ve, your room1e out and play after 11:30 since we . To the girls of 2nd floor Fox- can't come in. The Happy Valentine's day! Love, Brotherhood. Lynn GiGi and Barrie-Who's the Miller High Ufe of the week? To my little Valentine: Enjoy your Tuesday; wish me luck on Wednesday; I'll be ready Thursday. Love thy NeighbQr. LS Sunshine: \Not what we give, but what we share, For the gift without the fiver is bare.\ J .R. Lowell, Vision of Sir Launfal, II Dear Rachel: \Come lan- dlord, fill the flowing bowl until it does run over. Tonight we will all merry be-tomorrow we'll get sober.\ John Fletcher, The Bloody Borther, 11,2. • SMC:A Valentine's Wish for you. Things are improving for everyone, though not as much as for you and me. I haven't smiled so much in years! Have the happiest Valentines ever! . JAM-I guess I really won't have to wait 10 years. I don't know if we should get a puppy though. We are going to wail TIMO: Sorry I missed the escort Friday night. Maybe next weekend. J.P. P.S. Say \hi\ to Pete for me. Polly-These have been the best 3 years! Happy Valentine's Day. 1-2-3, Potato Head Memorial services for our betoved Squeaker will be held at the Sunday, Feb. 12, 7:30 mass at St. John's church. Eulogy will be said by R.C., J.B. and F.C. Plans for a \Squeak-off\ will be discussed. Yo Bleifer, Happy belated birthday. By the way, the card is humbly retracted. Bolt this. No love lost, Scudjules and Little Red. Lor-Between the waves and the books I am still thinking of you. It's tbne to start spending more time together. Friends Forever! Lynch Stace, You are a great roommate! Happy Valentine's Day. Love ya always. Lynn The Union College Gaming Association . is sponsoring an • AD & D Tournament February 17 & 18 / Call6944 For more information ~, i MARK MASON I I Guitarist & co.median I I 9 pm - 1 am in the Pub I I I ·. Free Admiss_ion I ·~~~·~-~---~~

Page 14 (\'lJIVCORDif..'N.\il.~~ February 9, 198./ .SPORTS Athlete of the Week.· By DREW HURLEY Sports Staff Prototype right wing Curt Cole is. this week's recipient of Athlete ofthe Week honors. Cole has been an jmportant factor in scor~d two goals, including the game winner and aga:inst Norwich he had a key goal that iced the game for Union and tallied an assist. The a'll\ 180 pound sophomore who hails from Wexford, PA is currently 2oth on Union's all-time scoring list with 45 points. . Curt is a graduate of the Choate School and a brother at the Chi Psi Lodge. Congratulations to Curt 11e Skating Dutchmen's success J date. Prior to Tuesday's ~arne, Cole was Union's third ! eading scorer With 12 goals and 12 assists for 24 points. He has scored a point in eight of Union's last nine games and has had four goals and five assists in the last three games. Against Merrimack, Curt and best of luck to the .Skating Dutchmen during this ,g weekend's tough hornestand. _g Q. .-----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----~ 0 AlTENTION SPRING ATHlETES c/) Physicals will be given on Sunday, February 12 in the training room of Achilles Rink. The times are as follows: Women's Lacrosse Softbalf TracK· Tennis Men's Lacrosse Baseball 7:00 7:15 7:30 7:45 8:00 8:15 Pre-physicals will be given in the training room the week of February 6-10 from 9-11 :'30 a.m. and 1-2 p.m. Curt Cole Intramural Notes Note: All students are en- couraged to a.ttend the finals of the intramural ice hockey playoffs which features Chi Psi and the Rejects this Monday, February 13, at 10:15. The finals of the men's and . women,s broomball playoffs. · will be on Wednesday, • February 15 starting at 10:15. All students are welcome. C07ne lh i1ncl inxt~ jbl(ZJi!i '--:bu. deseJ-ve ti f? ~ ~ _, . :Juz~, ~ ~'IJ~~Y. . ffl_CZ, 41Jti~Jir ~~~===!.1~-ln.tk~ lzW~ ~3-- ~\ntet, \\\ahs1 Come on in and relax to the sounds of COLBY SNO REVIEW Feb. 9th, at the Rat· 10-2 a.m. Feb. 14th, 10-2a.m. Br.ing your best girl to the Rathskellar on Valentine's Day because it's LADIES NIGHT. FRE:E 'Daisies for the first 100 ladies. Listen to the sounds of B RIDGETBALL BALLADEER EXTRADINAR. . = tl c ·;: c .II. v: .II. c Ill L. I.L. > .D .E 0 .c 0. High scoring Julie Miller and the rest ·of Lynne Sarta.'s 8·3 basketball team will host Hamilton Sat. at 7:00. See wo.men'shQOP article p. 16. Broomball Playoff Schedule •'(~'~) 1. lble otflc... 10<15 -- 2/8 l 8. ~ S!!l!!! J SUn. 2/12 10:30 2. Sl!!!!! Oil. 11<15 Ked. 2/81 7. 'Ihird .PlOOE\ west . 3. Pli.U.~ Wed. 2/15• ll<lO U:lS Ked. 2/B, (C1iiiiii>ioo) 6. -~ llelta au.~ : -· 2/12 ll:JO ~. Dty- 1:15 'Hoi!. 2/B J s. l1hl. lleltl 'lbota I (~'S) ' 1. Cblll.ns KIJ.lers =· 2/9 11:30 1 4. I lrdPloo<Ric!mnl ·hied. 2/lS 10:15 (a:;a;pl<iiJ. 2. Jetaal'• 'lblr. 2/9 12:30 I 3. WI'F .Raiders I Men's Ice Hockey Playoff Schedule 4. Fiji Mon. 1/]Q 10:15 Si9111'1 Chl '/ 6 •. Signa Oli. Moo. 2/6 10:15 Chl Psi 1. QU. Psi .1 Mon. 2113 10:15 3. Rejects \~1.00) Mon. 1/30 ll:30 R&ects 5' 5. Delta Phi M:.n. 2/6 11: 3() Rejects 2 • Al~Delta Pili ~ . Track ••• Continued from page 16 hurdles and the 500. Next week the men compete in the Capital District meet at Union College. All of the teams from the area will be there and this should be the most in- teresting meet yet this season. It will begin at 6:00 p.m. on Friday and all are welc()me to attend, The~ women will travel on Sunday to the H()ly Cross Classic. l(estatJralll ani ~ar S()1 111\TIIE ST. :!'13• ()~<JI.J Let's Support the Skating Dutchmen into the Playoffs * f·riday at 7:30 vs BOWDOIN * Saturday .. \'.Pre-Game Party before COLBY game from 1 :00p.m.-3:30p.m. receive half-pri·ce cocktails with your ticket to the hockey game. This spotlitt the ch flag ftJ prize t Salem. TheD Chi's straigl three league The C1 Crev; introdu - is pres spring second implie1 proach will so the lik the 0: Skidmc Cross • An ir to thE beheld II,. thi those i attend spring The man erg om curren purch: racing Rea Adam! club, 1 this e • • • w Althc dis apt womer were s womer meet Union byafh outcon reflect put in Union meclle: Katen Sharor first 1 stroke the 50 Pearl first-p: yard indivil Kyle swim

CONCORDIENSIS, FehruarJ' 9, '1984 Page 15 Intramural $pqt IJir ByG.W. Sports Staff This week's intramural s{mtlite award is presented to the champions -of last term's flag football leagues._ The first prize trophy is awarded to Ken Salem, captain of the Dukes. The Dukes upset Theta Delta Chi's unbeaten streak of 38 straight games· dating back three seasons in the six man league. . The Delta Upsilon Turfdags, captained .by Ted Cannon, continued their control in the eight man league with a· win over the Beta Bombers in the finals. The Beavers, the dominant force in co\rec intramurals the past couple of years, won the eight 'person' co-ed league. The Beavers~ captained by Gary Wenner, won thej:r third .straight flag footban title •. Special thanks to all the participants in flag football this year and to Steve· Nowak for his coordinating.· · - Crew Looks Towards Spring By JOHN CIOVACCQ Crew, a sport· that was r~ introduced to Union;faU 'term, - is presently in training fo:t: the spring season. Moving into the second half of winter training implies that spring is fast ap- proaching, and Union's rowers will soon have to contend with the likes of Hobart, Hamilton, the University of Rochester, Skidmore, Ithaca College, Roly Cross and many more. C!!ssidy, a graduate of Holy Cross College, was a coxswain for three years and has at- tended the United States Rowing Association's Coaches' ·Clinic at Cornell University. Jason .Adams has come to Union from the Naragansett Rowing Club in Rhode Island. Both Miss Cassidy and Mr. Adams will be with us through the spring to enable the club to compete at a higher level. Rowing is a unique com- bination of collective and in- dividual strengths. It is the struggle to overcome your own mental and physical limitations, to master a .difficult skill, to combine your best ef- fort with those of others, and to do this better than anyone else. If you are interested in rowing, but can't make it to the meeting, contact John Ciovacco at 381-6960. An informative meeting, open to the entire campus, will beheld tonight at 7:00 in Stage II, • third floor Carnegie. All those interested in rowing must attend in order to finalize the }•._ . . ,, spring program. . The club now owns an eight- man shell and a training c ergometer. Arrangements· ·are E currently being made for the .._ Ill purchase of two additional 0 racing shells. Rea Cassidy and Jason Adams, who are coaching the club, will be in attendance at this evening's meeting. Miss ...: {/) >- ..0 0 'B .c c. .·· Union crewprCJcticing in their shell this pastfall. • • . drop two meets Women's Swim Team Splashed By LISA FREED & SHARON PEARL .. Pearl and Freed qualified for · the State Championship meet with their respective times iri Although it was a slightly the 200 IM and 200 backstroke. disappointing week for the Other team members had -women's team record, there strong performances, but were some bright spots for the despite · Jaymie Ridless's women's swim team. In their quality diving performance, meet against Skidmore, the Union could not quite <ivercome Union women were outscored the Skidmore women. by a finaltally of 85-54. The final · In Saturday's meet against outcome, however, does not Plattsburgh, the Dutchwomen reflect the strong performances again looked strong, but not put in by many team members. strong enough, losing by a final Union took first place in the 200 score of 84-24. Jaymie Ridless medley relay with Lisa Freed, turned in a superb performance Despite points earned in second and third place finishes by Sally Carey, Megan Lutzker, Lynn Hano and Betsy Boutwell, the Union swimmers were unable to overcome the strong Platt- sburgh team. The team finished its dual meet season with RPI yesterday (Wednesday) and Utica and William-smith on Saturday. Hopefully, we will be sending a few more swimmers to the state championships next week at the University of Rochester. SPORTS Notes of the cuH • Sports Talk With SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff PlayOffs Sitting near the top of the ECAC standings, it loDks as though this winter's Skating Dutchman squad will be making its first appearance .in post~season play since way back in 1977. Athletic Director Oick Sakala announced earlier this week that if the Skating Dut- chJmen are invited to ~post­ season play they will accept. The ECAG play-offs will_ begin in late February and it willtake two wins to get to the finals. The NCAA play-offs begin in earl¥ . March and will have a new format this year. This year will be the £inar Division II Tour- nament so teams who are eligible can choose between either the Div. II or Div .. III tourney. Since hockey is the only Div. II sport at Union, the Dutchmen are eligible for the Div. III play-offs. The Athletic Department has chosen to accept, .if invited, the Div. III tournament. Five at-large teams will be selected from the East for the NCAA's. The tournament will differ fmm the ECAC's with a two-game total goals format. Number24 Sophomore right wing Curt Cole hasn't gotten much press this winter but he has played a big role in the recent success of Charly Morrison's skaters. Curt is on the road to becoming one of Union's ·top scorers. Cole enjoyed a productive rookie campaign and already has 24 points in his sophomore year. Cole's a double threat as he can set up his linemates with tough play in the comers and also take the puck and put it away on his own. Gill Egan, Mike Rozzi and Bill Wemeke have all had the chance to skate on lines with Cole and they'll be the first to tell you how good Cole really is and how important he is to the Skating Dutchmen. Swish ' It's hard to belive that this will be the last winter for fans to enjoy the exciting play of Dutchman basketball sen- sation, Joe Wood. In last weekend's loss to Kings Point, Wood by-passed Joe Clinton and moved into the number three slot on the Union All Time scoring list. J<'ormer All·· American Joe Cardany heads the list and is followed by State Assemblyman Jim Tedisco. Only a few games remain for the hoopers and then it will be time for Joe to take off his sneakers and lace up his spikes for his final season on the diamond for John Audino's Dutchman baseball squad. Pre..Game Show The women's garnet hoop team is currently enjoying one of their best seasons in recent years. Balanced scoring has helped the garnet women run up an impressive 8-3 record. In Monday night's win over New Paltz, coach Lunne Barta looked at the score book in the locker room after the game and saw five Dutch women in double figures. The squad has a nice blend of veterans and rookies. Julie Miller, Cay Lynch, Rebecca Clemente and Patty Richards are all experienced college players. Barb Weisinger and Colleen Quinn are both freshmen and have bright careers ahead of them. Most women's college teams depend on the skills of one or two pl!lyers while Union can look to a balanced scoring attack and not depend on one woman's performance. Booters Banquet The 1983 Dutchman soccer team, who finished sixth in the nation, got together last week to reflect on the record-breaking fall and say goodbye to seniors Dave Sheridan, Tom Cutter and Larry Anastasi. The dinner wa_s capped off with a nice awards ceremony presented by head coach Bob Magee. As voted by the players, Captain Dave Sheridan 'Yas picked as .Most Valuable, Tom Cutter as Most Improved, and Guy Clevaloux was chosen as Best Freshman. With a good recruiting year, the Dutchmen could find them· selves in the thick of the play- offs for the second straight fall. Karen Califano, Robin King and in the 50 yard free, taking a very. Sharon Pearl. Califano also took close first place. Pearl also took first in the 200 yard b'reast- a first in the 500 yard freestyle. stroke, and Freed took firsts in Double firsts were recorded by Men's Swim Team Wins the 50 and 200 yard backstroke. Freed in the 1000 yard free and Pearl paced the team to two the 100 yard backstroke. The first-place finishes in the ~00 team was a bit weaker than yard freestyle and 200 yard . usual due to some injured, individual medley events. Both \\ ~bsent, and sick _ swimmers. Kyle Cotugno wins 200 l.m. against Plattsburgh, The Dutchmen swimmers defe<!fed Plattsburgh 48-47. Last Home Meet By MIKE FOX Sports Staff The swimming Dutchmen have been busy and successful recently by winning two out of three meets last week. They traveled to Vassar for a double dual meet where Union suffered a 39 to 69 loss to New Paltz but simultaneously gained a 65to 40 win over Vassar. The team swam well that day-Vassar was clearly dominated and the gap in the New Paltz score would have been considerably less if Union had a diving team. It is rather irritating to note that any team Union _ visits which has a diving squad and a board essentially gets 16 \free\ points since we have no op- position to offer or even a facility to train divers. With the long overdue installation. of a new pool, whenever that is, the situation will hopefully cha11ge. ·Saturday, Union held its last home meet of the season by hosting Plattsburg. The team worked hard in anticipation of a close meet and indeed, it was, with Union coming out on top. by a mere one point, 48 to 47! The men's record is now 2-5 with promise of additional victory as they finish the season facing RPI, Utica, Albany and Hamilton. Now for some details , . . swimmers who won at least one race (and in some cases many more) during the last week include Andy Crossley, Kyle Cotugno, Brian Chabot, Ron Newbold, Mike Fox, Steve Jacobs, Chris Sawchuck, and Steve Zehl. Importl:!Ilt second and third places--just as valuable, especially in dose meets like Plattsburg--were scored by Mike Millet, Dave Weick, Leon Hodes, John Wahlen, Lloyd Maliner and Ken Major. Support Union swim· ming and wish them luck as they wrap up this year's schedule and aim for the State Championships at Colgate, February 23-25!

Page /fy ( '()N.('ORIJJENSJ;V): FebrtiUJT 9, .1984 SPO Hoops at . 500 Gamet Five Upsets Hamilton 0 ]! Ill 0 u > c 0 1- > .0 0 0 .c c. By BLACKNESS Sports Staff The Union College basketball ;quad evened their record at 9 .. 9 1st week -with two impressive ctories over Binghamton and tionally ranked Hamilton :fore dropping a decision .turday to Kings Point. The Dutchmen opened. the . eek Tuesday against a strong Binghamton team with a 10-6 record. Union played perh~ps its finest game of the season in posting a 74-59 win. Trailing by one at the half, The Dutchmen came out smoking in the second half behind Ken D'Orazio's 18 points and pulled away for the win. Unlike previous contests the Dutchmen made the crucial plays down the stretch of- fensively and · defensively to preserve the win. Joe Wood led all scorers with 22 points, while D'Orazio finished with 20. Thursday, perennial power Hamilton College (13-1, ranked Kevin Bartlett (32) goes up for two against Kings Point. Union lost thegame73-60. Sports Happenin'gs Feb. 9-Feb. 16 Varsity Hockey Men's Basketball J.V. Hockey J.V. Basketball Women's Basketball Men's Swimming Feb. 10 Bowdoin Feb. 11 Colby Feb. 14 Plattsburgh Feb. 11 Norwich Feb. 11 Kimball Union Feb. 13 Hamilton Feb. 11 Hamilton Feb. 14 Russell Sage Feb. 11 Utica Feb. 15 Albany Sf, 7:30 (H) 4:00 (H) 7:30 (H) 2:00(A). 7:00 (H) 7:00 CAl 7:00 (H) 6:30 (A) 1:00 (A) 4:00 CAl Women's Swimming Feb. 11 Utica, Wm. Smith Feb. 16·18 NYSAIAW Meet at Rochester 1 :00 CAl . (A) Men's Indoor Track Women's Indoor Track Feb. 10 Capital Dist. Meet Feb. 12 Holy Cross Classic 6:00 (H) (A) Scoreboard HOCKEY (9·4·1) (11·7·1 overall) Union 4 Uniori 5 Merrimack 2 Williams 2 MEN'S BASKETBALL (9·9) Union 69 Kings Point 73 Hamilton 67: Union60 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (8·3) Union 58 Union 77 RPI56 New Paltz48 MEN'S SWIMMING (2·5) New Paltz69 Union 65 Union 48 Union39 Vassar40 Plattsburgh 47 WOMEN'S SWIMMING (2-3) Skidmore 85 Plattsburgh 84 Union 54 Union 24 MEN'S&WOMEN'S TRACK (1-3) f Track Excels ByD.I.U. Sports Staff The Union track team competed this past Sunday in the open OTR-ATAC track meet at Union College. No Union team members scored, yet they made some great shows. Scott Remillard once again took first in the 35 pound welght throw followed by Mark Dunn who also took second in the shot put with a throw of 44 1 8\. In the triple jump, Bob Bertagna took first with a 43'8%\ leap. In the 500, three Union athletes placed: Winston Britton first in 1:06.5, Pete Granger second in 1:10.5, and Steve Black in 1:11.6. George Capozzi took second in the 50 meter dash in . 6.1. Gary Wenner was un- doubtedly athlete of the day for his fine 13'0\ pole vault, fifth in the 50 meter hUrdles and an amazing first place high jump of 5'7\. He also led the mile relay team which also included Dave Marin, Steve Black and Pete Granger with a second place time of 3:46.1. In the women's meet, Jenny Snover took first place in the 500 meter run with a time of 1:26.0 qualifying her for the state meet. Other first place finiShers were Gigi Giordano in the 50 meter hurdles and Andrea Grief in the 300. Marianne lnadik took second in both the 50 meter Continued on page 14 l:ith nationaily, 2nd in N.Y.) invaded Memorial Fieldhouse. The Garnet were waiting with an ambush however, and in the most memorable game of the year pulled out a 69.(;7 victory. 'rhe game was elose throughout and when Hamilton opened a 54- 48 lead with 8:48 left, Union appeared in danger of letting the game Slip away. The Dut- chmen responded however and finally grabbed the lead 62~1 on a three point play by Wood with 2: 52 r-emaining. Wood's two free throws with 411 seconds left iced the win. Kevin Bartlett, who beat Hami:lton's highly touted frontcourt to the punch all night long, led all scorers with 21 points while Wood and D'Orazio added 19 and 18 respectively. With back-to-hack impressive victories under their belt, the Dutchmen seemed to have .finally put the year's frustration behind them, but Saturday night Kings Point only added to the wounds. Led byforwardBob M<!Nammee's 38 points, the Cadets coasted to a 73.;(i0 win. The only bright spot for Union . SeniQr TomB lackburn gets hacked from behind in the Dutchmen's wilcl69'67 upset over nationally ranked Hamilton. occurred when Joe Wood moved into the 3rd spot on Union's all- time scoring list early in the second half. Bartlett again led Union with 14 points. Union will have 'to· repeat their effort of the. Hamilton game this Wednesday night as they host another Division III power, Hartwick (14-1). Oh Saturday Union hits the .road traveling to Norwich. AnENTION! Spring Term Ruggers Meetingtoday at4:00 In Humanities Rugby Ro<>rn Skellar at 5:00 Bring all advertisements Practices start Fri., Fe!). 9 Union Defeats Merrimack, 4-2 ByA.W. Sports Staff 'The Union College Dutchmen defeated Merrimack College 4- 2. Curt Cole had two goals for Union at key points in the contest, and has proved to be an imp()rtant cog in the 83-84 campaign,, making several clutch plays this season. The first period was . .scoreless, as both goalies made olltstanding saves for the maj()rity of the ten shots both teams made. As it turned out, Wayne McDougall would get .some help from his defensemen for the whole game, while Brian Daccord, Merrimack's goalie, got little help from his. Union's forechecking was superb, disorienting the Warrior defensemen. This was particularly evident in the second period, when the Datchmen got three of their goals. Cole got the first as both teams were down a man. He st_()le the puck from a rushing Warrior defenseman, charged toward the goal, and flipped the puck into the top corner while being hauled down. Merrimack tied it minutes later, as a good draw off the face-off produced their lone goal. Union went ahead for good as Cole's slapshot on the power play went between the goalie's pads. Gill Egan made it .3-1 before the period was out, taking ad- vantage of another defensive lapse by Merrimack, slipping it underneath the frustrated Warrior goalie. . Union continued to play their type of game in the final stanza: Merrimack had its chances also. McDougall was more than up to the task, and when Todd Flanigan iced the game with an empty net goal in the final two minutes, Union came home with a 10-7-1 record, 8+1 in Division II. NOTES: About a hundred Boston-based alumni were at Merrimack to support the Dutchmen, and they certainly saw a good show. \We were surprised to hear cheers for- our side tonight,\ said senior Ben Maynard. \We really ap- preciate their support\ . . . Tommy Hodgins was back in action for the Merrimack game, as his ailing shoulder has irn• proved ... The Dutchmen llave a tough week ahead, playing Colby, Bowdoin and Pl;att- sburgh ... Union's Mike Rozzi ( 16) and Gill Egan (11) storm the EphmEn's net. Rozzi had two goals and Egan a goal and 3 assists to lead tfle '9· 4-1 Dutchmen to a 5·2 Victory. I 0 . four game win streak ' Dutchwomen Hoop Rolls On ByKIMGALOW Sports Staff The women's varsity l>asketball team goes into February 8th's game against Oneonta with a four game winning streak. They crushed Middlebury Tuesday night 78· 43, with fi\ve out of nine players scoring d()uble figures. Barb Wiesenger and Colleen Quinn ooth scored 13 points, Kim Mangino 12 points, Elaine Pick l1 points, and Cay LynCh 10 p()ints. Thursday's game against R..P .I. was not as easy a victory. lt.P ,I. and Union are two fierce Capitol district rivals. Union went into halftime with a 31-25 lead. Lynch scored a game high 17 points, Weisenger had 14 points and 9 reboun~s, while Julie Miller added 7 points and 8 rebounds to lead Union to a 58-56 victory. R.P.I. had the ball with seven s~conds left and a chance to tie the game but could not get a shot off against Union's tough defense. Monday night'sgame against New Paltz was similar to the Middlebury game. The Duta chwomen dominated the game both offensively and defen- sively. The halftime score was 38-22 Union, and the final ()Ut- come was 77-48, Union. Again,. five ·Of the Dutcbwomen score!~ double figures.. Lynch had 13 points, 6 rebounds and all ama;~Jing 10 assists. Barb Weisenger had 18 points and 7 rebounds, Julie Miller had 11 points and 6 rebounds, and K.im Mangino and Colleen Quinn llad 10 points apiece and 8 and lll .. ' rebounds, respectively. Union has now defeated tw() of their three opponents entered in the upcoming Capitol Dist,_-ict Basketball Tournament. The tournament will be held on February 17-18 at Albany State Univ~sity. 10 c: 'i: 0 ::tt en ::tt c ro ,_ IJ.. > .c 0 .. 0 .c: Q. Ill Q. .c: a. > ,_ ro ~ > .c 0 0 .c: Q. CXHI ' co-ch stu de ''I By \I a gains! mola c was ex studen CoUeg4 to COl tatives Office1 for pe basis. The1 a few stud en segme munit~ respon phone, \seize whose them 1 follow: must I anadE to exc the d( by a owner from1 enter buildi1 not bE etc. . ' camp1 If a culpri viol at con!iil will t have fees, ---- \If· ado gott - - pose: by po \D1 probl dean thesi rece1 COm I urgin actio thed1 than laugl \SI shap1 · seerr. them man: filtr: class clas~ a em cam]

Paxe 16 ('ON( 'ONJJ/t'NSI.\.i, Febnt«J'.I' 9, 198./ SP s Hoops at .500 Gamet Five Upsets Hamilton 0 Q) - Vl 0 u >- c 0 1- >- D 0 +- 0 J:: c. By BLACKNESS Sports Staff The Union College basketball ;quad evened their record at 9-9 1st week w~th two impressive ctories over Binghamton and tionally ranked Hamilton fore dropping a decision .turday to Kings Point. The Dutchmen opened the . eek Tuesday against a strong Binghamton team with a 10-6 record. Union played perhaps its finest game of the season in posting a 74-59 win. TraHing by one at the half, The Dutchmen came oll.t smoking in the second half behind Ken D'Orazio's 18 points ana pulled away for the win. Unlike previous contests the DutchmeFI made the crucial plays down the stretch of- fensively and defensively to preserve the win. Joe Wood led all scorers with 22 points, while D'Orazio finished with 20. Thursday, perennial power HamHton CoHege (13-1, ranked Kevin Bartlett (32) goes up for two against Kings Point. Union lost the game 73·60. Sports Happenings Feb. 9-Feb. 16 Varsity Hockey Men's Basketball J.V. Hockey J. V. Basketball Women's Basketball Men's Swimming Feb. 10 Bowdoin Feb. 11 Colby Feb. 14 Plattsburgh Feb. 11 Norwich Feb.ll Kimball Union Feb. 13 Hamilton Feb. 11 Hamilton Feb. 14 Russell Sage Feb. 11 Utica Feb. 15 Albany St. Women's Swimming Feb. 11 Utica, Wm. Smith Feb. 16·18 NYSAIAW Meet at Rochester 7:30 (H) 4:00 (H) 7:30 (H) 2:00 (A) 7:00 CHJ 7:00 (A) 7:00 (H) 6:30 CAJ 1:00(A) 4:00 (A) 1:00 (A) (A) 6:00 (H) CAl Men's 1 ndoor Track Women's Indoor Tracl< Feb. 10 Capital Dist. Meet Feb. 12 Holy Cross Classic Scoreboard HOCKEY (9·4·1) (11·7·1 overall) Union4 Union 5 Merrimack 2 Williams 2 MEN'S BASKETBALL (9 9) Union69 Kings Point73 Hamilton 67 Union 60 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (8·3) Union 58 Union 77 RPI56 New Paltz 48 MEN'S SWIMMING (25) New Paltz 69 Union 65 Union 48 Union 39 Vassar 40 Plattsburgh 47 WOMEN'S SWIMMING (2-3) Skidm0re85 PI attsburgh 84 Union 54 Union 24 MEN'S&WOMEN'STRACK (1 3) r Track Excels ByD.I.U. Sports Staff The Union track team competed this past Sunday in the open OTR-ATACtrackmeet at Union College. No Union team members scored, yet they made some great shows. Scott Remillard once again took first in the 35 pound weight throw followed by Mark Dunn who also took second in the shot put with a throw of 44 '8\. In the triple jump, Bob Bertagna took first with a 43'8%\ leap. In the 500, three Union athletes placed: Winston Britton first in 1:06.5, Pete Granger second in 1:10.5, and Steve Black in 1:11.6. George Capozzi took second in the 50 meter dash in 6.1. Gary Wenner was un- doubtedly athlete of the day for his fine 13'0\ pole vault, fifth in the 50 meter hurdles and an amazing first place high jump of 5'7\. He also led the mile relay team which also included Dave Marin, Steve Black and Pete Granger with a second place time of 3:46.1. In the women's meet, Jenny Snover took first place in the 500 meter run with a time of 1:26.0 qualifying her for the state meet. Other first place finishers were Gigi Giordano in the 50 meter hurdles and Andrea Grief in the 300. Marianne Hladik took second in both the 50 meter Continued on page 14 15th nationally, 2nd in N.Y.) invadecl Memoria;! Fieldhouse. The Garnet were waiting with an ambush however, and im the most memorable game of the year pulled out a 69-67 victory. The game was close throughout and when Hamilton opened a 54- 48 lead with 8:48 left, Union appeared in danger of letting the game slip away. The Dut- chmen responded however and finally grabbed the lead 62-61 on a three point play by Wood with 2:52 remaining. Wood's two free throws with 48 seconds left iced the win. Kevin Bartlett, who beat Hamilton's highly touted frontcourt to the punch aH night long, led all scorers with 21 points while Wood and D'Orazio added 19 and 18 respectively. With back-to-back impressive victories under their belt, the Dutchmen seemed to have finally put the year's frustration behind them, but Saturday night Kings Point only added to the wounds. Led by forward Bob McNammee's 38 points, the Cadets coasted to a 73-60 win. The only bright spot for Union Senior Tom Blackburn gets hacked from behind in the Dutchmen's wi,Jd 69-67t1psetover nationally ranked Hamilton. occurred when Joe Wood moved into the 3rd spot on Union's all- time scoring list early in the second half. Bartlett again led Union with 14 points. Union will llave to repeat their effort of the Hamilton game this Wednesday night as they host anotller Division III power, Hartwick.: ( 14-1 ) . On Saturday Unim bits the road traveling to N()rwich. ATTENTION! Spring Term Ruggers Meeting today at 4:00 In Humanities Rugby Room Skellar at 5:00 Bring all advertisements Practices start Fri., Feb. 9 Union Defeats Merrimack. 4-2 ByA.W. Sports Staff The Union College Dutchmen defeated Merrimack College 4- 2. Curt Cole had two goals for Union at key points in the contest, and has proved to be an important cog in the 83-84 campaign, making several clutch plays this season. The first period was scoreless, as both goalies made outstanding saves for the majority of the ten shots both teams made. As it turned out, Wayne McDougall would get some help from his defensemen for the whole game, while Brian Oaccord, Merrimack's goalie, got little help from his. Union's forechecking was superb, disorienting the Warrior defensemen. This was particularly evident in the second period, when the Dutchmen got three of their goals. Cole got the first as both teams were down a man. He stole the puck from a rushing Warrior defenseman, charged toward the goal, and flipped the puck into the top corner while being hauled down. Merrimack tied it minutes later, as a good draw off the face-off produced their lone goal. Union went ahead far good as Cole's slapshot on the JJOWer play went between the goalie's pads. Gill Egan made it 3-1 before the period was out, taking ad- vantage of another defensive lapse by Merrimack, slipping it underneath t:he frustrated Warrior goalie. Union contimted to play their type of game in the final stanza. Merrimack had its chances also. McDougall was more than up to the task, and when Todd Flanigan iced tile game with an empty net goal in the final two minutes, Union carne home with a 10-7-1 record, 8-4-1 in Division II. NOTES: About a hundred Boston-based alumni were at Merrimack to support the Dutchmen, and they certainly saw a good show. \We were surprised to hear cheers for our side tonight,\ said senior Ben Maynard. \We really ap- preciate their support\ . . . Tommy Hodgins was back in action for the Merrimack game, as his ailing shoulder has im- proved ... The Dutchmen have a tough week ahead, playing Colby, Bowdoin and Platt- sburgh ... ~ / J Union's Mike Rozzi (16) and Gill Egan (11) storm the Ephmen's net. Rozzi had two goals and Egan a goal and 3 assists to lead the 9- 4-1 Dutchmen to a 5·2 victory. • • • four game win streak Dutchwomen Hoop Rolls On ByKIMGALOW Sports Staff The women's varsity basketball team goes into February 8th's game against Oneonta with a four game winning streak. They crushed Middlebury Tuesday night 78- 43, with five out of nine players scoring double figures. Barb Wiesenger and Colleen Quinn both scored 13 points, Kim Mangino 12 points, Elaine Pick 11 points, and Cay Lynch 10 points. Thursday's game against R.P.I. was not as easy a victory. R.P.I. and Union are two fierce Capitol district rivals. Union went into halftime with a 31-25 lead. Lynch scored a game high 17 points, Weisenger had 14 points and 9 rebounds, while Julie Miller addecl7 points and 8 rebounds to lead Unicn to a 58-56 victory. R.P.I. hadthe ball with seven seconds left and a chance to tie the game but could not get a shot off against llnion 's tough defense. Monday night's game against New Paltz was sitnilar to the Middlebury game. The Dut- chwomen dominated the game both offensively and defen· sively. The halftime sc<Jre was 38-22 Union, and the final out- come was 77-48, Union. Again, five of the Dutchwomen scored double figures. Lynch had 13 points, 6 rebounds and an amazing 10 assists. Barb Weisenger had 18 points and 7 rebounds, Julie Miller had 11 points and 6 rebounds, and Kim Mangino and Colleen Quinn had 10 points apiece and 8 and 10 · rebounds, respectively. Union has now defeated two of their three opponents entered in the upcoming Capitol District Basketball Tournament. The tournament will be held on February 17-18 at Albany State Univ~rsity. 1- ~ > .!:) 0 .... 0 ~ c. IC c: ·;: 0 .:.:. Vl .:.:. c: ro .... u. > .!:) 0 - 0 J:: c. \' c. ..!: a. > .... ro ~ > .0 0 .... 0 .c: c. ·t ' ~ '\ l ·~ I -- CXIU co-ch< studer \' [ Byl \I < against mola d was ext student College to cor' tatives Officer for pe1 basis. Ther a few studen1 segme1 munity respon: phone,' \seize whose them t followi must b anade tO eXCI the do by a owner from t enter buildir not be etc. ~ camp\ If a culpri1 violati condit will b have· fees, ; \HI a do got t~ - - pose< by po \D< probl' dean the si recei comp urgin actio1 the d4 than laugl \s~ shap1 seem them man: filtr: clas~ clas~ aero: cam1

t-= 0:: Ill c. >- .a ·- 0 r. - Q.. 0 ..c: > 0. ..... til :: > ..0 0 ... 0 .c c. CXIIl, No~ 1\5 ' Cb·chairperson of the FHm Committee, Andy Rosen believes that students should be o.ttered a choice In films. · February 16, 1984 Fllm Causes Controversy . By LINDA M. RAFFAELE Tne fi'rm c()mm.ittee's decision :t() show \Wanda Whips Wall Street\ on campus last week. caused quite .a con- troversy among parts of the student body. A formal pr.Dtest, sponsored by the C:3mpus Ministry, the Christian Fellowship, the Women's Network, and the Newman Club, was held before the movie was shown on Tuesday night, February 7. This meeting featured Kate Skelto11-Caban from the Unitarian Universal Service Committee, an Inter• nat,ional Human Rights Organization. Skelton-Caban, an activist in the women's movement for twenty years, Spoke on why pornography is an issue that shoUld be discussed. Club pointed out that \por~ nography reduces people to animals. It separates the body from the soul. If people really have the desire to see por- nographic films, they can always go off campus.\ \Dogs AU Over the Place, Quoting· from the book, Reweaving the Web Gf Life, she noted that in this country, every three minutes a woman is beaten by her lover; every five minutes a woman is raped; and every ten minutes a young girl is molested. Moreover, statistics show that every few seconds a woman is slapped, molested, sodomized, or otherwise beaten. \Films such as \W~nda Whips Wall Street\ promote this type of sexual harassment,\ she said. \Women are portrayed as submissive sex objects who ought to be exploited for members of the opposite sex.\ A petition against the showing of \Wanda Whips Wall Street\ was circUlated in Carnegie on Tuesday and was signed by one hwtdred and thirty student~. It read, \We the undersigned, oppose the use of general student funds for the purpose of purchasing .sexually exploitive movies.\ The petition may be invalidated, however, because, as it turns out, no student funds were used to pay for \Wanda Whips Wall Street''. By MARCY BURSTINER Staff \I don't have anything against dogs,\ Joseph Mam- mola declared. This comment. was extracted from the dean of students when asked why the College has gone to the trouble to cordially invite represen- tatives from the Animal Control Officers Corps on to tlle campll$ for periodic visits on a daily basis. The new dog policy has rais~ a few eyebrows amol,lg the students as well as canine segment of the College com- munity. It seems that \in response to a complaint by phone/' these officers may ~ \seize and remove any. dogs a whose owners .have allowed ~ them to be in violation\ of the ~ following ordinances: all dogs ';_ must be properly restrained by .a an adequate collar and leashnot ~ to exceed eight feet in length, ..c: the dog must be accompanied a. by a responsible person; the owner must obtain a license from the city, the dog must not enter any college owned building on campus, and it must not be leashed to trees, posts, etc. and left unattended on campus. If a dog, or owner of the said culprit, is found to be in violation of any of the above conpitions, the guilty canine wi11 be seized, the owner will have to pay the impoundment fees, and tbe College will im- \If students want to have a dog on campus they've got to .obey the law.'' -Dean Mammola pose a fifty dollar fine followed by possible disciplinary action. \Dogs have always been a problem, . I've been told, ... the dean explained. It seems that the situation has grown worse in recent years resulting in complaints by various people urging the dean to take some action. ''My office seems to be the dean of odds and ends rather than the dean of students,'' he laughed. \Security gets all bent out of shape over this.\ Because of a · seemingly \whole hoard of· them around,\ there have been many complaints of dogs in: filtrating the library and classrooms, barking outside of classrooms, roaming in packs across campus, left. by off- campus students early in the morning to be picked. up again late in the afternoon,. tearing through garbage calls to feed their tired~ hungry bodies, and even attacking people on campus. Mamrnola explained that there have, in fact, been two or three 'incident;; of people who have been attacked by dogs. on campus. grounds .. ''.HQw ·do we get a handle on this wh~n we have twenty to .twenty-five dogs. Dean of MammQia Students, Joseph roaming the campus?\ Mannnola asked. ' 'The only way seems to be the legal ap-, proach.\ He further explained that the Animal Control Officers are best able to handle the situation. They bave the professional training to handle them humanely, and. they h~ve a place to keep the dogs until the owners can be contacted In addition} the ·Officers are the only ones with the legal authority to seize the dogs because tbe animals are .conN sidered the private property of their respective ow.ners. \There was no one else who met that criteria. I'm not even sure its legal forthe dean of 1!itudents to go out and catch a. dog!' He added,. \ These people do not have gtu1s.\ \If students want to have a dog on campus they've got to obey the law.\ When asked about the obvious discriminatory focus of the new policy the dean. chose not to skirt the issue. He admitted that there were reports of pigs, rabbits, ducks, catsy fish, rats, and even snakes and tarantulas over the last two years. Visiting Ducks ''The ducks were only visiting,\ the dean stated. Kappa Alpha, it seems, was housing the feathered creatures, but they .had insisted that the ducks were not, in fact, brothers of the fraternity. Mammola also admitt~d .that the administration did consider imp()sing the .new policy on all non-human member:s of the College but it decicled against it. It thought it best to \focus on the biggest crimillals of the bunch.\ The dean was .then tllld of a hypothetical situation ill which Joe Student DI comes to Union for his freshman year~ Sad Joe must ie~V\e his po<lr Fluffy at home even though the two have bee11 inseparable for the ten or mereyearsthat they have lived together. Fluffy ·is not .a· nasty dog, in fact all who kn<JW him have only words of tbe highest praise for their furry friends. Residence Life de:rnands, however 1 that good old Fluffy cannot live in the doiiDitories. The dean did show sympathy for Joe. He explained, h<Jwever, that \if everyone had Fluffy, . we 1 d suddenly have dogs ·an Continued'Oll·page 3 Although only about twenty students showed up at the protest, (with more men than women in attendance) Skelton- Caban believed that more would. have come had they known that there were so many others who shared their sentiments. She also noted, however, that the few students there, by getting out and letting other students know their feelings about pornography, could really make a difference in whether or not X- rated movies are shown on campus in the future. \That's our purpose here,\ said Debbie Ballard of the Christian Fellowship. \We're trying to raise student awareness on campus as to the effects of pornography.\ Junior David Tolge of the Newman . The way the system works is that movies are sent to the college andthe lfilm committee is billed later. Most movies lose money so the committee has to use its funds to make up the difference. \Wanda Whips Wall Street\ made money, though, so no student funds were needed to help pay for it. According to Co-chairperson of the Fibn Committee, Andy Rosen, \Wanda Wl1ips Wall Street\ has been the biggest money-maker ofthe year so far. It made a net profit of $136. The · film was shown four times in- stead of the \lSUal three because of its popUlarity. The last two shows sold out. Rosen said, \The film committee does not exist to make money. It is here to bring options to campus.\ Still, he points out that movies like \Wanda Whips Wall Street\ help to pay for movies that generally do nat gross a lot Continued on page 4 ,·-, .... P<uckste·rs tai<e: ·-. '\' • «' . <-·-•''~ ' • ,. • ,,, .. ~ . .,,.,.,.,,. ,~v' ,,,,,, &,tr•i~t GsH~n•s ;-':\ *:JJ•e• t~et,ty *

t- ~ >. .0 0 .... 0 J:: a. \' a. ..s: a. > .... fC ::2: > .0 0 +- 0 J:: a. CXUI, No. 15 co-chairperson of the Film Commit,tee, Andy Rosen believes tha·t students should be offered a choice iA f i1lms. february 16, 1984 Film Causes Controversy By LINDA M. RAFFAELE The film committee's decision to show \Wanda Whips Wall Street\ on campus last week caused quite a con- troversy among parts of the student body. A formal protest, sponsored by the Campus Ministry, the Christian Fellowship, the Women's Network, and the Newman Club, was held before the mevie was shown on Tuesday night, February 7. This meeting featured Kate Skelton-Caban from the Unitarian Universal Service Carnmittee, an inter- national Human Rights OrgaRizatien. Skelton-Caban, an activist in the women's movement fer twenty years, spoke on wily pornography is an issue that should be discussed. Club pointed out that \por- nography reduces people to animals. It separates the body from the soul. If people really have the desire to see por- nographic films, they can always go off campus.\ \Dogs All Over the Place\ Queting from the book, Reweaving the Web of IJfe, she notedthat in this country, every three minutes a woman is beaten by her lever; every five minutes a woman is raped; and every ten minutes a young girl is molested. Moreover, statisti-cs show that every few seconds a woman is slapped, molested, sodomized, or otherwise beaten. \Films such as \Wanda Whips Wall Street\ promote this type of sexual harassment,\ she said. \Women are portrayed as submissive sex objects who ought to be exploited for members of the opposite sex.\ A petition against the showing of \Wanda Whips Wall Street\ was circlllated in Carnegie on Tuesday and was signed by one hundred and thirty students. It read, \We the undersigned, oppose the use of general student funds for the purpose of purchasing sexually exploitive movies.\ The petition may be invalidated, however, because, as it turns out, no student funds were used to pay for \Wanda Whips Wall Street\. By MARCY BURSTINER Staff \I don't have anything against dogs,\ Joseph Mam- mola declared. This comment was extracted from. the dean of students when asked why the College has gone to the trouble to cordially invite represen- tatives from the Animal Control Officers Corps on to the campus for periodic visits on a daily basis. The new dog poHcy has raised a few eyebrows among the students as well as canine segment of the College com- munity. It seems that \in response to a complaint by c phone,\ these officers may ::t. \seize and remove any dogs 5 whose owners have allowed ~ them to be in violation\ of the c following ordinances: all dogs ci must be properly restrained by E an adequate collar and leash not ~ 0 to exceed eight feet in length, ~ the dog must be accompanied by a responsible person, the owner must obtain a license from the city, the dog must not enter any college owned building on campus, and it must not be leashed to trees, posts, etc. and left unattended on campus. If a dog, or owner of the said culprit, is found to be in violation of any of the above conditions, the guilty canine will be seized, the owner will have to pay the impoundment fees, and the College will irn- \H students want to have a dog on campus they've got to obey the law.\ mDean Mamm.ola pese a fifty dollar fine followed by possible disciplinary action. \Dogs have always been a problem, I've been told,\ the dean explained. It seems that the situation has grown worse in recent years resulting in complaints by various people urging the dean to take some action. \My office seems to be the dean of odds and ends rather than the dean of students,\ he laughed. \Security gets all bent out of shape over this.\ Because of a seemingly \whole hoard of them around,\ there have been many complaints of dogs in~ filtrating the library and classrooms, barking outside of classrooms, roaming in packs across campus, left by off· campus students early in the morning to be picked up again late in the a~ternoon, tearing througb. garbage cans to feed their tired, hungry bodies, and even attacking people on campus. Mammola explained that there have, in fact, been two or three incidents of people who have been attacked by dogs on campus grounds. \How do we get a handle on this when we have twenty to twenty-five dogs Dean of Mammola Students, Joseph roaming the campus?\ Mammola asked. \The only way seems to be the legal ap-- proach.\ He further explained that the Animal Control Officers are best able to handle the situation. They have the professional training to handle them humanely, and they have a place to keep the dogs until the owners can be contacted. In addition, the officers are the only ones with the legal authority to seize the dogs because the animals are con- sidered the private property of their respective owners. \There was no one else who met that criteria. I'm not even sure its legal for the dean of students to go out and catch a dog.\ He added, \ These people do not have guns.\ \If students want to have a dog on campus they've got to obey the law.\ When asked about the obvious discriminatory focus of the new policy the dean chose not to skirt the issue. He admitted that there were reports of pigs, rabbits, ducks, cats, fish, rats, and even snakes and tarantulas over the last two years. Visiting Ducks \The ducks were only visiting,\ the dean stated. Kappa Alpha, it seems, was housing the feathered creatures, but they had insisted that the ducks were not, in fact, brothers of the fraternity. Mammola alse admitted that the administration did consider imposing the new policy on all non-human mem.bers of the College but it decided against it. It theught it best to \focus on the biggest criminals of the bunch.\ The dean was then told of a hypothetical situation in which Joe Student III comes to Union for his freshman year. Sad Joe must lf'ave his poor Fluffy at home even though the two have been inseparable for the ten or more years that they have lived together. Fluffy is not a nasty dog, in fact all who know him have only words of the highest praise for their furry friends. Residence Life demands, however, that good old Fluffy cannot live in the dormitories. The dean did show sympathy for Joe. He explained, however, that \if everyone had Fluffy, we'd suddenly have dogs all Continued on page 3 Although only about twenty students showed up at the protest, (with more men than women in attendance) Skelton- Caban believed that more would have come had they known that there were so many others who shared their sentiments. She also noted, however, that the few students there, by getting out and letting other students know their feelings about pornography, could really make a difference in whether or not X- rated movies are shown on campus in the future. \That's our purpose here,\ said Debbie Ballard of the Christian Fellowship. \We're trying to raise student awareness on campus as to the effects of pornography.\ Junior David Tolge of the Newman The way the system works is that movies are sent to the college and the ifilm committee is billed later. Most movies lose money so the committee has to use its funds to make up the difference. \Wanda Whips Wall Street\ made money, though, so no student funds were needed to help pay for it. According to Co-chairperson of the Film Committee, Andy Rosen, '\Wanda Whips Wall Street\ has been the biggest money-maker of the year so far. It made a net profit of $136. The film was shown four times in· stead of the usual three because of its popularity. The last two shows sold out. Rosen said, \The film committee does not exist to make money. It is here to bring options to campus.\ Still, he points out that movies like \Wanda Whips Wall Street\ help to p.ay for movies that generally do not gross a lot Continued on page 4 Junior Nick Moran performing at last Friday's Mountebanks Night Club. t nterview with President Morris *page seven* . Pucksters take 6 Straight Games *page twenty*

·- ;__ ~ .. .. (/) c:: :0 .0 0 cr Ql > I]) ... 1.1) >- .0 0 .... 0 .r::. a. CO.'VCOR/)11:'.'\'SIS, f'ehmm:r 16. 198./ Director of Computer Services, Wayne E. Holt, e.)(plains the for· mation of the Five Year Plan. Five Year Plan Has Achieved Many Goals By DAVE MARIN Staff This coming July, the comQ puter center's Five Year Plan will be entering its third year. Though most students have seen many changes in computer facilities around campus, they are probably not aware of the Workings ·of the Five Year Plan and what the long-range goals for computer operations. and services are at Union. of the C()mputer center outshine the ·efforts of the humanities department which did the difficult part. In ca::;;es 'like this, the .computer center serves as a base from which departments can implement their own computer systems or tap into the main computers and receive assistance from the center. Foreign Church Observed DirectQr of Computer Ser- vices Wayne E. Holt explained the reasons for the formulation \ of the Five Year Plan. J.n 1981, before his coming to Union, a faculty committee \issued a very strong report on the status of computing at .Union and in fact,. it had concluded that there was a crisis. in compllting at Union because things we~;en't changing fast enough to keep pace With the changes in the curriculum and the changes in the Feal worl~.\ Need for Plan In its short two and· a half year history, the plan has ac- complished many goals. 'Both the VAX 11-780 and the Hewlett Packard 3000•64: are new computers that have served to update the computer center's equipment. These have been accom.pa:rlied hf- __ new public terminal cl!JSters that have expanded computer presence throughout the campus. The Five Year Plan has resUlted in a number of other actiVities in- cluding, among other things, pilot projects in library automation and office ad- ministration, a campus com- munications network, increased numbers of microcomputers and a new graphics lab in Steinmetz. By LORI OLIWENSTEIN Staff On February 8, David Scot- chmer, a Ph.D. candidate in Anthropology at SUNY A, spoke to a small group of students, faculty, and others concerned with the situation in Central America. Although his speech was officially entitl«:>d ''Church in Central America,\ and was sponsored by the Campus Ministry, the contents of his lecture, and accompanying film, went far beyond these limits. Scotchmer, who has spent thirteen years as a missionary in Guatemala, began with a film on the situation ·in Latin America. The film, which ran about half an hour, was narrated by Edward Asner, and summarized the political and military prQblems in such countries as Guatemala, Nicaragua, Chile, and other countries. Although the film left all judgement to the viewer, the role of the United States in these countries' histories was prominently shown. The film was highly graphic, so much so that Scotchmer warned the \weak stomached among us\ before the film was shown. The film was followed by a brie.f summarization of the situation as Scotclun.er has found it in his years in Guatemala, followed by a question and answer session. He was a· little more vocal in his view on the United States' in- volvement in these countries. \(Our government) has con- stantly shut the doors on an equitable solution and left the military open as the only solution.\ When asked what the a1ternatives were, Scotchmer replied, \We have to look at the several (viewpoints). One is, what would we like to see in Latin America? The other is, what would the Latin Americans like to see in Latin America?\ The talk turned, at one point, to the situation in Nicaragua.A student asked Scotchmer what he thought was really going on there. He replied that with so many conflicting reports coming from Nicaragua, and since he was not actually in the country, it was difficult to tell what was really happening. \It is easier to judge what's taking place outside Nicaragua, namely, the constant harassment, the constant pressure and buildup against Nicaragua.\ However, he was able to comment somewhat on the Nicaraguan situation. \It is clear that there is a socialist, Marxist if you will, economic Marxist regime in power. I think in this case you'd have to differentiate between economiC Marxists and atheistic MarxiSts. There has not been any indication .•. that there has been any suppression of religious freedom . . • . You do not have the governm~nt killing its Gwn people (in contrast to Guatemala and Salvador) ... I would love to hear of a democratic election in Nicaragua, but I don't think it will happen until they're ready for it to happen.\ S c o·t c h mer 's person a I specialty, however, is Guatemala. He is associated with the Presbyterian Church and has spent most of his thirteen years as a missionary in Guatemala with a tribe of Indians there, learning their culture and language, ahd how the political situations are af- fected. He was able to. talk much more precisely about the Church in Guatemala, and to give specific examples of in- \There has not been any indication . . . that there has been any supression of religious freedom. . . .I would love to hear of a democratic election in Nicaragua, but I don't thinK it will happen until they're ready for it to happen.\ -Scotchmer cidents. He says that the Presbyterian Church is reluctant to take an official position on the political situation. To exemplify this point, he cited a story of a town which was being forced to evacuate. A certain pastor tried to fight the evacuation of the town, wh_ich cQnsisted mostly of Presbyterians, and, as a result, was threatened and harassed. Fearful, the pastor took refuge with a missionary. The missionary's friend, who was driving the missionary's car, was subsequently kidnapped and taken to a field to be executed for subversive acts. Eventually, he convinced his executors tnat he was not the man they wanted and was taken to headquarters. In the end, both he and the missionary who was wanted in the first place were forced to flee the cotintry. The end result of the whole mcident was that the Church was forced to . take a stand on behalf of its own people and try to intervene in the evacuation of the town. This shows, according to Scotchmer, that the ''Church ... is only being politicized, only being awakened to political realities . . . by face to face confrontation.\ Asked about the Catholic Church in Guatemala, Scot- . chmer replied, ''There have been very clear signals on the parts of Catholics and Catholic hierarchies deploring the · violence, decrying the fact that perhaps a million people are homeless, there are letters that are written by bishops, so there are statements that are being made.. . . The reaction on the part of the government is that individuals will be singled out, priests will be singled out; local Catholic workers will be singled out, and prior to being mur- dered, names will be-extracted. .. The Catholic Church has been picked on, chosen, singled out as fhe institution to nail.\ Scotchmer went on to speak about the local populations in Guatemala. \Politically the (lo~al) people. are very reticent to make any type of political statements.\ When they finally do, it is out of oppression and self defense. It is precisely at this point at which the guerrillas show up and convince Continued on page 4 Tuition to Rise By LISA J. FOLEY Staff Union's tuition Will rise again by approximately ten percent for' the 1984-1985 school year. In the 1982-1983 academic year, tuition. rose seven hundred and fifty dollars, a 10.3 percent increase from the preceding year. For 1984-85, tuition will rise $660, from $8,050 to·$8,710; room and board will increase to $1 ,515 and the most popular meal plan Will be $518 per trimester. Expenditures justified The Board of Trustees, which approved these increases, feel \fully justified by the ex- penditures necessary to provide the top quality Union education and to provide the support services to the educational programs .. ' In addition, the board stresses ·that Union's tuition increases . have been consistently lower than schools that compare with Union in~the admissions game. This, the trustees believe, is admirable considering the progress that cat1 be seen at Union in the areas of computer resources, faculty com- pensation! faculty development, and dormatory refurbishment. Student Trustee . Melissa Viglielmo, who voted down the tuition increase, under&tands the trustees' position. She ex- plained that Union must compete both for students by maintaining and improving the quality or education and for professors to ensure the quality of education offered at Union. ,Secondary to this; elaborated Viglielmo, is the need .for Union's tuition to be' \com- parable to other schools of our caliber.\ The trustees believe that this is necessary so that prospective . freshman believe they receive a first-rate education. Clearly a new .main frame computer was needed, .but simply replacing a computer was not the answer. There was a need for a well-thought-out plan for the long-tenn needs and goals of computer operations ·at the schoM. This would also nece.ssitate a careful examination of what role coinputers should play at Union and what approach should be taken to meet that end. The answerwas the Five Year Plan. A committee called the Com- puter Services Advisory Panel ( CSAP} presented a plan, late in 1982, to the Administration and then the Board of Trustees. Both groups reacted positively and the plan was adopted. ' The Five Year Plan included four important principles. It was essential that the plan maintain flexibility and to that end it was determined that each year a new Five Year Plan would be designed. In this way, the future of aomputers . at Union would never be fixed. Each year the plan is reviewed and options examined. This means that most changes made under the plan are the result .of several years of consideration. This ~lso helps in the funding of projects since it is clear, in advance, what can be expected in terms of costs. Also within the plan was a desire to deemphasize com- puter services. The plan made it clear that computer services should support other disciplines and not became an entity that functioned to serve itself. This means that users, be they ad- ministration, faculty, · or students, will receive · more support since the comp11ter center's main purpose is t() serve its users, not itself. Finally, said Holt,, the plan \encourages every discipline to utilize the computers in a rational way and to ex:plore areas where they might · best make use of computing ser- vices,\withthe CompUter Hu• manities Curriculum(CHUC) operation being ·a prime example. Though not a direct outgrowth of the Five Year Plan, the CHUC project was encouraged by the plan; and computer operations gave support to the project by way of technical assistance, advice, and equipment. Holt stressed that in no way should the input In the futlire for computer services and the Five Year Plan, Holt sees replacement of the Burroughs by the end of 1984 by a general curricular com- puter for academic purposes; aJl expanded network, including two new terminal ·clusters in Bailey Hall and another location, yet 'to be determined; and an increase·in the number of microcomputers. He also expects that the school will begin funding personal pur- chases of computers by students, faculty, and staff in the near future. He says that both this and replacement of the Burroughs should help alleviate the overload of the Vax. However, ii is inherently within that type Of operation that not everyone can be satisfied. These are hilt ·a few of the changes planned under the Five Year Plan. · · First Real Users Holt stated that it was not the school's aim to be a \leading edge\ school in computer hardware, that ,s, that Union would not be the first school to use a particular ·new computer. Rather, he sees the school in the group referred, tu as the \first real users,'' meaning that group which uses the computer after the earliest users have tried it for a while. He also explained that since changes in curriculum and software move so much faster than the hardware, it would be impossible to ever have a system that • completely satisfies what is demanded of it. By implementing the Five Year Plan, the Office of Computer Services has assumed a direction and a guiding, but non-binding, plan. With this kind of advanced study and preparation, the computer center will assuredly not be caught in a crisis again. Union Colle~e Concert Committee and Miiler High Life present: The band that refused to retire Returns! Union College's Rock and Roll Guru CHARLIE-T & THE GRADS Friday, Feb.l7atll p.m. in Pub Come preparedtodanl'::e!! r [ A! Fou COlli tern and Thi~: by fere Pro (en Bar Pro (Soc Dw.i Onl; rnlt1 and tow lear A, COUI tool: ind as ben cor1 exa; tool app rna! \p incl w:e~ conj drir The . det' inte ber: I! s L fow stul reg legi Sta1 waf Indl (IS I last p dep Sta\ belc Ch~ Ste pur fun the: pur onE

CONCORDIE'NSIS,. Ft!bruury 16. 1984 Decision O.urse Created By.JANBARAN - Associate News Editor student interests by faculty members. · fact, a math background is not a. prerequisite. This course is also \not just another statistics course.'' Although some statistical techniques Will be developed, the primary concern of the course centers on deciding.'\ problems using various tools. Although this course is still in the eJq>erimental stage, Phaup hopes · that it will become a decisive part. of the Union curriculwn for freshmen. If there are any questions con- cerning ''Decision Making and Contemporary Problems,'' contact Phaup of the economics department or one of the other team members. Chairman of the Academic Affairs Council Professor Phaup is one of the four team members of the new decision making course. A,s part of the original SI oan Foundation proposal, _a new . course will be. offered spring temrentitle«;l ''.Decision Milking and Contemporary Problems.\ This course Will be team-taught by four professors from dif- ferent departments including Professor Andrew Burke (engineering), Prof e.ssor Barbara Boyer (biology), Professor Terry Weiner (sociology), and Professor Dwight Phaup (economics). Only freshmen will be per- mittedto sign up for this course, and it will carry\ an \E\ credit toward meeting the liberal le<!rning requirements. . Accordln,g tQ PhaU,p, this course will \examine certain · tools and methodologies useful in decision making.\ Tools such as systems analysis, cost- benefit analysis, and correlation techniques will be examined. After learning the!ie tools, the students will then apply them to existing dilem- ~a!3 in our society. The purpc>se of thi~ course in decision making is to give. the students a framework of reference in analyzing certain dilemmas. Phaup indicated that on a specific public policy issue there · is a wide range of profei;!Sional views. For example, in the drinking age debate currently occurfing in states acrossthe country, many experts still have not decided whether a higher drinking age causes few~r accidents. By examining . tools from engineering, sociology, economics, .. and biology and then applying them to . this particular dileinma, students can make a better judgment than one. just based on the \gut- level\ feeling . 'I'he stru~ture of this course will be d.ifferent from the preceptorial classes offered to freshmen. As planned, the course will meet three times a week, for ,one hour and fifteen minutes on Tuesdc:ly and Thursday and for fifty minutes on Wednesday. The longer clas~ will be devoted to theory and some of its applications while the shorter one will con- centrate on discussion and Women's Rugby Recognized Possible topics to be analyzed include the optimal speed limit, wealth transfers, the LQ. controversy, the New York drinking age, and game theory. The range of topics will be . determined by the various interests of the faculty mem- bers and the perception of -additional applications. Phaup emphasized that ''Decision Making and Con- temporary Problems\ would not be a pre-calculus course. In By EMILY LOOSE Staff This fall, juniors Sarah Andrews and Joyce Harrington, following the suggestion from members of the men's rugby team, pursued the creation of a wome.;t's rugby club. After eliciting enthusiastic response from Union women, Andrews and Harrington drafted the formal club constitution. Such a constitution must be submitted to the Student Forum for the appropriation of ~lub. funding. ISC \TCips'' State A.id ••• StudentsReadytoLobby By SARAH CALDERINI . Staff Last week, approximately four hundred and fifty Union students signed a petition regarding the TAP Parity legislation now in the New York. State LegiSlature. The petition was organized by the Independent Student Coalition (ISC) and was taken to Albany lasPTuesday. ISCpurpose Presently, half of the in- dependentschools.in New York State with student governments belong to the ISG. According to Chairper:son of the ISC at Union, Steve Benson, ''The IS'C' s purpose. is simply to lobby for funds for higher education and they Will never go off that purpose.\ The coalition keeps nne full-time lobbier, the e:lkecutive director, in Albany, in addition to ba,ving an ex~cutive board. Union became a member of the ISC in 1983. Benson per- sonally believes \Union is the top instittttion in New York; because of this;we must take on the role of leadership in (the) ISC.\ The Unioncommittee intends to hold a letter drive so students will write to their .respective assemblymen. The key legislators are Assemblyman Siegel, chairman of the higher educationcommittee in the New York State Assembly and Senator LaValle, chairman of the higher education committee in the New York Senate. In Union's iminediate area are . Assemblymen Tedisco and Tonko wh() are also key persons in passage of the bill. The ISC at Union also hopes to form a voter registration drive which W9llld let the legislators \know just how many people are concerned and voting,\ says Benson. The committee would like to send letters to Union students' parl}nts who are residents of New York in hopes of having them write to Albany also. ISC members now include Steven Benson, Beth Bernell, Stacy Fassberg, Doug Landon, Shari Midoneck, Dianne Pavacic, Joe Rosenfeld, Gregg Shack, and Marcy Wilder. Their man intent here is to educate the student body and get them involved in the campaign. The lobbying · date for Union is Tuesday, March 6. Benson would like to see at least two busloads of Union students go to Albany. All interest is ap- preciated and new members are always welcome. Come and enjoy yourself at: ·• Rock & Roll Pizza & Du,t,ch, Hol:low We proudly present: 3 hour price rollback* Fri., Feb. 17th '4:30-7:30 *large 8 cut-.:$3.85 *small bags popcorn--.20¢ * sllces-.:$.50 *soft pretzels~-3 for 99¢ * two top pi ng.s for the price of one Special Friday only: 4:30-7:30 p.m • . BBQ Hot Wings! 10 wings for $1.95 *Enjoy your food ln the Dutch Hollow *Does not include deliveries · Reservatio11s must ~e made by Thursday night by 9:30p.m •. For Dutchmen's Night Women's rugby, having been approved by the Student Forum, is now a recogni7;ed club and an cfficial member of the Upstate Rugby Union. With its paperwork com- pleted, the club now faces the difficult task of shaping itself into a cohesive, conditioned, competitive team. Anyone who has watched the men's team practice on library field on hot spring-term afternoons knows the determination, stamina, and sweat required of a rugby member. The game of rugby is among the mQst grueling of sports and appears to the ignorant onlooker, simply a confused scramble. The game is grueling because it is played in two forty-minute halves in which no substitutions may be made except in case of injury. In addition, rugby, though it may appear un- controlled, is in fact a complex: and Qrganized game of strategy and agility as well as strength because no helmets or padding protection are allowed. With the experienced guidance of their coach Dr .. Dave Be~siger, and with the spirited encouragement of captains Andrews and Harrington, the women rugby players are well on their way to competitive condition. Ben- siger, who plays for a local rugby team and who has coached other women's sports, although never women's rugby, works with the players to ex- plain the strategies of the game. Already practicing ,on Sunday and Monday nights from 10:00 to 11:00 p.m., the women will expand their practice schedule come spring and .favorable rugby weather. Andrews estimates t:he size of the club will settle between twenty-five and thirty women, which for a game of fifteen players, provides a strong field of selection. Now running a couple miles per practice, the women will eventually work up to fiver-mile practice runs in conjunction with a series of sprints. Both Andrews and Harrington, as co- captains, along with some men's rugby players, will be attending a coaching clinic next week at Hamilton College. As far as protection for the women, they will he wearing mouth guards and possibly shin In its first season, this Spring term, the women's club will be playing from four to six games. guards, but just as with the men, pads and helmets are prohi,bited. Rather than causing injury, this lack of protection seems to make players acutely aware of their danger of injury and therefore more cautious. The men's rugby club, with an impressive record of per- formance, has had few injuries. Andrews wishes to stress that the men's rugby club has been very helpful with the women and was certainly supportive this fall with the infamous Skellar practices. In its first season this spring term, the women's club will be playing from four to six games. Andrews and Harrington are now attempting to contact several colleges, such as Oswego, Siena, Amherst, Williams, Cortland, R.I.T., and Plattsburgh, to arrange. a definite schedule. The Union women's initiative and com- mitment are to be commended. They will no doubt tackle what is sure to be a challenging season. Dogs Nabbed Continued from page 1 uver the place!\ Such a situation would create both health and noise problems. \Not all students are respon- sible enougb to clean up after . their dogs.\ It seems that :housekeeping has a tendency to get upset wben they find pets in thedorms. In addition, there are food establishments and open kitchens in many of the dorms. 'fo allow pets would create a sanitary and health problem. ·Fluffy's Welcome The dean added, though, that if the student wished to live off campus with Fluffy, he is more than welcome to bring him up to college. \Fluffy is welcome on campus on a leash.\ Yearbook Meeting Thursday, February 16 in the Yearbook Room New Staff Are Welcome!

Page .J CONCORIJI!:'.'VSIS, J'ehrmu:r 16. /98-l Forum Views Issues c: 'iii u.. en Cll :l cr: > .c 0 <- 0· '§. AAC Representative Jamie Danziger By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Features Editor • • Almost every movie can be found to offend someone. Monty Python's 'The Meaning of Life' was found to be offensive by some, but where was the uproar? It is a question of where to draw the line,\ stated.Film' CommitteeChairperson Andrew Rosen at the last Student Forum meeting, at which several in- dividuals protested the showing of the pornographic movie \Wanda Whips Wall Street.\ Although fifteen students were .present to voice their opinions on the pornography issue, the forum followed its regular procedure and began the meeting with the committee reports. Faculty Overloadlng Ca,reer Pa.ths Discussed Student Representative to the Academic Affairs Council (AAC), Jamie Danziger, presented his report .. Last week, the AAC further investigated the question of faculty overloading. In addition,. the AAC may pass a.resolution in which professors are asked to \stress\ writing mechanics---- i.e. grammar, spelling, punc~ tuation, etc. and to consider· these areas when grading a paper. No fmal decision has been reached yet, as the AAC is eliciting feedback on the proposal. By G~ YLE ROSENFELD News Editor On Wednesday, February 8, the majority of the campus community was unfortunate enough to have missed out on another one in the long list of career seminars instituted by the careerc~nter here at Union. This event, aptly entitled \Careers in Government and Public Affairs,' 1 was held in Strauss Lounge from 7-9 p.m. Professionals Attended The evening boasted five members of the tri-city area involved in the aforementioned categories of the professsional world. They included the following: Parliamentarian of the New York State Assembly, · Chris Cernick, Union class of 197\3; Senior Staffing Representative ofthe New York State Depar-tment of Civil Service Pat Truax Freund, \If you have an op- portUnity to get involved in gov~rmnent, . . . the contacts you make can take you a very long way.\ -Cernik Union class of 1976; Principal Planner f<1r the Schenectady Department of Planning and Economic D~velopment, John Tracy; Associate Director of New York State's Common Cause, Bradley Zeve; and Nancy Davis of the New York Public IntP-rest Research Group (NYPIRG). Chairman of the Political Science Department, James Underwood, served as moderator. Unfortunately for Union, only five students expressed enough interest to attend. However; they were not disappointed. Cernick, Freund, Tracy, Zeve, and Davis had much to say in regards to career paths and professions in government and public affairs. Cernick was the first to speak. He discussed many concerns often shared by students who, as he put it, do not know what they want to be when they grow up. Cernick graduated from Union and continued on to Albany Law School because, \It seemed like the thing to do.\ Two years later, Cernick left law school for it did not hold much meaning for him at the time. He wandered over to the internship office in the state capital. He was placed in the codes committee which was then chaired by a young Stanley Fink, future majority leader for the assembly. Cernick's primary function here was to \make coffee and stay out of everyone's way.\ By now it was 1975. A year later, Cernick returned to Albany Law to finish getting his degree, while still working in the capital. Through a series of job switches within the state government, Cernick followed along with Fink. In 1983, Cer- nick became parliamentarian in the assembly. This is where he works today. Cernick proved quite candid about his career path. He noted that people still ask him as to when he is going to get a \real\ job. He loves his work, however. \Blow Me Away\ Continued fnm page 2 them to join up, saying that they will provide for them when they get into power. On a final note, Scotchrner was asked whether he feared for his personal safety and how he dealt with the constant threat ofthe \death squads\ and other such vigilantes. He replied that it was a real and constant fear and that it was the cause of many other people abandoning Guatemala and places like it. He said that many people believe \my life isn't worth risking so that some sixteen-year-old kid hanging out of the back of a truck with a machine gun and a chip on his shoulder can blow me away.\ He personally believes that the work he is doing is worthwhile' and that there is a degree of safety for him because what he is doing, and the Presbyterian Church with which he is associated, are not considered subversive. Provocative Speech Scotchmer' s speech was informal, provocative and disturbing. He was unable to pose any solutions or give any definite answers as to what he thought would happen next. Nevertheless, the speech was well worthwhile, because it awakened the audience to the reality of Guatemala and other Latin American countries. 1984 Yearbook On Sale $20 unti I tomorrow See Mrs. Marra He also sees a connection between law and government work. \A lawyer interprets and applies the law,\ said Cernik. A legislative counsel, Cernik's other title., ''confronts problems, drafts legislation, negotiates legislation . . . , comes to some consensus and sees everything through.\ Cernick added, \You use all the skills_ that a lawyer would use, and more.\ , However, Cernik mentioned that one does not ha:ve to be a lawyer \to reach the top of the decision-making process in government.\ Lawyers. do not necessarily predominate in the Albany legislature. . Cernik left off with a point expressed by everyone of his colleagues at the seminar. ''If you have an opportunity to get involved in government, ... the contacts you make can take you a very long way.\ Internships Chai:rman of the Inter- fraternity Council (IFC), .Joe Bogan, discussed the holding of the IFC's Swim-a-thon for Leukemia this February 26. No news was reported from by the Student Trustees. The Independent Student Coalition (ISC) Representative, Steve Benson, announced the br,inging of the signed petiti~~s \We feel that pornography is sexually exploitive of women, and ... that by the film committee showing the movie . on campus, Union College is condoning the showing of por- ·h· \ nograp y ••• -Tom Haven are great aids in this respect (of last week) to Albany this and are available in . Union's Tuesday, which is also undergraduate program. Rochester's lobby day. Also on The remaining four panelists February 25, an ISC General also had a lot to say about their Assembly meeting is to be held career paths and professions. in New York City at New York Each one had a different story University. to tell, from three years with the Because of Chairman of the Peace Corps in Brazil to a few Committee on Committees years as a child protective care (COC) Jared Squire's illness.- worker. However, .aU these five related absence, Junior professionals had one thing in Representative Susan Brand common. They all stumbled, so presented the (COC) report. to spe~k, into their first few Currently, the COC is drafting jobs. They experimented and its own set of bylaws which took chances. ' should be finished by this New Experiences Thursday, February 16. An The key for them was to be open meeting is being held by flexible. Each job offered a new the COC on that date at 9 p.m. experience. A low paying job at in the Social Sciences Lounge to one time often led to promotions go over the new bylaws before later. they are submitted the In the final analysis, very few following Monday to the forum. people can map out their job The last of the committee path in advance and follow it in reports came from Vice a straight line. There will President for Finance Ben always be barriers and side Heckscher. At its last meeting roads along the way that will the Finance Committee (FC) often provide interesting presented the fall term alternatives. budgetary statistics for all Choice Offered Continued from page 1 of money, such as last weekend's \Moscow Does Not Believe in Tears\. Rosen concluded, \The film committee is not saying that pornography is a good thing. We realize that some people find it offensive. Those people simply should not go see it. We believe, however, that it is important to offer students a choice.\ The Unio.n College Political Forum Presents: 11 A Real Political Forum: Campaign ;84'' An open discussion/debate between faculty & students Mon., Feb. 20 • .7:30 P,rn. • Banquet Room Special Guests include: . Prof. Tidmarch • Prof, Daniels • Prof. Nichols • Prof. Brown • Prof. Phaup • Prof. Underwaod • Prof. Weiner • Prof. Huggins Refreshments will be served All are welcome to attend (Not just Political Science Majors) student activiti~s, It was noted that several organizations were -viewed as being inactive, many because they ·do not become active until winter or spring term. It was then announceq that Concordiensis' budget had been adjusted to account for a lower than . expected income. This loss of income has been offset because shorter issues have been published this term. Tfie Gamet's lack of sales was investigated further, With a suggestion being made to the organization t() sell as many books as possible. Also, He.ckscher announced that the .film committee's movie \Wanda Whips Wall Street\ netted one hundred and thirty dollars .. Lastly, the bylaws of the finance. committee were presented to the foruin. They will be voted upon n&xt week. With no \old business\ to discuss, the forum turned toward the a.rea of '~new business.\ This area spe(!ifieally dealt witb the protests against the showing of the pornographic movie. Before discussion ensue.d, Senior Representative Jim Parsons made a motion to limit the discussion of the issue to twenty minutes due to the ''fact that many of the same thlngs were going to be repeateg,, over · and over again without anythfug being settled. Senior Representative Matt Nankin challenged this action, stating, \We are aU here by choice .. . 1 will be here all night if necessary. Though the' issue may not be completely resolved to everyone's liking, we (the forum) should come to some kind of consensus.'' The motion was defeated. · Main Argument Tom Haven, speaking on behalf of the three. protesting groups (Christian Fellowship, Newman Club, and Women's Network) presented the outline of the main argument of the groups against the movie; \We feel· that pornography is sexually exploitive of women, and . . . that by the film com- mittee showing the movie on campus, Union College is condoning the showing of pornography . . . and lastly, I wish to present a petition containing the signatures of one Continued on page 5 in nearby Saratoga Cotmtg Friday Night College Special buy one lift ticket get the second lift ticket for half price! ·Alpine Meadows Ski Area · · A·lpine Meadows Road Greenfield, New York (518) 893·9484 - c T Un1 aterr being comp notice trimE and. I' \Ph a prOVE plete1 Vi< Adm said ''hop earli1 ' 1 pvci1 plam prove comJ rest1 carr: the colw roof· l\ Coot hundi are c: then Jax the-. movi fund relev may what vi ole yetn show Your Ot1 supp film free( state issuE of c monc its s not t: not stu de free< Juni1 Sim< Ot HaVE

CONCORDlENSIS, Fehrua(r 16, !984 PageS Ol;d Chapel Complex Takes On New Look J;ly AARON M. TOFFLER Staff Unless one happened to be on a term abroad last fall, the work being done on the Old Chapel complex could notbave escaped notice. For a good ,part ,of the trimester,. workmen renovated' and. refurbished the complex as \Phase l\ of a major im- provement project was com- pleted. Delays Encountered regulations. All of this began last summer and ended during the first few weeks of the fall term. · Also included with the renovations are changes in StciH~t Hall. OJ)the first level is a new entrance, a reception area, coat storage cl<mets and two new lavatories. On the new mezzanine level, offices will be made for .secretarial and clerical workers .. Thus far, the . oc.cupants have . not been third level of the Old Chapel complex. New Dining FaciUty Hauser also suggested tl\at a new dining facility for up- perclassmen will be in the College's future plans. For now, however, the campus com- munity will have to content itself with, and enjoy, the renovation of the Old· Chapel complex, Union's original chapel. Vice President of Finance and Admi.ni'Stration, Jonn Hauser looks at Stoller Hall renovations. Vice President of Fi.Iiance lind Administration John Hauser said that the College had 1 'hoped to do that ·worlt a year earlier'' but ·-it encountered \p:coblems'' that delayed the. plans. Many .structural im- provements on the Old Chapel comple~ were needed _including restructuring the weight~ carrying columns, refinishing the wood around . the steel columns, and putting in a new roof· and stairway to meet fire identi~ied. The specific function has not been 'decided upon, but there is a possibility that a writing center could be located there. . '111e total cost for completing Phase I was three hundred thousand dollars. This money cam.e in part from a Mobil Grant of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars and the remainder from funds that the College has at its disposal. When more money is raised, :Phase II will commence. This includes w~!k in the uppe.r or IFC Reacts to Probl.ems Morality· Challen·ged Continued· from page 4 hundred and thirty people wha are all: against the showmg of the movie.'' Jamie Dan~iger reacted to the -argument, stating, \The movie made money, so the funding question has no relevance. Though Ute movie may be sexually exploitative, what about the showing of violence? It too. is exploitative, yet no one complained about the showing of 'Dirty Harry' : .. Your point is ridiculous.\ . Other forutn members also supported the showing of the film, raisin_g the issue of freedom of choice. Jim Parsons stated, \Though it is a complex issue, it is basically a question of chOice. If the movie lost money, then one could prevent its s~owing; however, that is not the case. The Forum should not limit the freedom of the students.\'..'Jt is the limitation of freedoin of expression,'' added Junior Representative Jacques Simon. Other students supported Haven's initial argume~nt: \The film corn.rtlittee represents the student. This movie showed women as sex objects. Should they be portrayed th~t way? Freedom of choice yes-:- you can go off campus to see the~ films,\ stated Junior Chuck Pollard. ''I find these . movies offensive to women,\ ~a ted another student .. Stanley Firents, a member of the film committee countered the . protestor's argutnent once again by stating, \ ... freedom of choice, why are the religious groups on campus? They could just as easily go off-campus.\ Numerous other argwnents continued to be presented until at one point Jim Parsons made a motion to end discussion of the issue. Matt ·Nankin then amended the issue to in- definitely table discussion on the issue (it can be discussed again, but no specific date has been set). Both Nankin'.s amendment and the amended motion passed, curtailing discussion of this issue (at ieast at this meeting). With no other issued to discuss, a motion to adjourn was made and passed. ByLYNNHANO Staff At Union, where the Greek system is so dominant, the councils that govern the fraternities and sororities are important. The Interfraternity Council (IF C) is the governing force for all fraternities.. The Panhellenic Council is the governing body fQr the three sororities on campus. The IFC meets once every two weeks at eight o'clock on the fourth .floor of Carnegie, and each fraternity is represented at the meeting. President of the IFC Joe Bogan says that, \this year; more fraternities are being represented and when attendance is better policies are more effective.\ Bogan em- phasizes that in the past, the IFC has been a \weak force'', but with the encouragement of Assistant . Dean of Students Robert Massa it \is becoming more of .a political force on campus.'' The conduct committee was previously the only means by which any disciplinary action could be taken toward frater- nity problems. This was generally ineffective because students on the committee tended to be too lenient. Now, the· IFC wants to form a disclipinary conunittee com- posed of students from .the Panhellenic Council and the IFC that will impose sanctions against fraternities and sororities that exhibit improper conduct. The IFC wants to show Massa R.A. Applications Available in the Residence Life Office *Due February 24 * . - NOTE: If you are planning a Spring Term Ab.road and would like to be an R.A. next year, make all arrangements now. Also, if you know· of someone on a Winter Term Abroad who has expressed an interest in being an R.A., pick up an ap,pllcatian· for him. and the administration that it can control problems arising from fraternities and sororities. Massa has made it clear to the IFC that either 1he IFC will have to take action to deal with fraternity conflicts or the ad- ministration will intervene. Planning WorkShop Activities to improve the campus, as a whQle, through Chairmanofthe IFC, Joe Bogan fraternity life are -being planned by the IFC. This year, the council is planning various workshops to make fraternity life better. These should aid fraternities in scholastics, in- tramural sports, and improving a fraternity's image. All types of workships will be \offered from alcohol awareness to house finances. The IFC is sponsoring the swim- a-thon on February 26 for the American Le11kemia Society and everyone is invited to become involved. In the spring it is planning Greek Week which has formerly been in the fall. By having it in the spring, the weather should be better, fresh- men are more adjusted and acquainted with the Greek life and the spirit is usually good. This year, the IFC Ball, given in the· spring, may become an IFC-Pan.hellenic Ball to include sororities as well. The Panhellenic Council governs Union's three sororities and is a required organization if there are two or more sororities on campus. President of the Panlielienic Council Amy Dresner says, ''the main func- tion of Panhellenic is to organize formal rush.\ The IFC operates rush in a very informal manner allowing the fraternities to .get pledges on their own with the help of the pledge box. Panhellenic is much more formal and sets specific guidelines for rush. It decides the number of people each house can obtain and sets the ru1es to be followed during rush. Panhellenic sets the rules that are pertinent to the campus. It decides what sororities can establish itself at Union, if a · · new sorority is to be formed. Standards are set by the council which the sororities are asked to follow in their daily functions and when operating social events. Members of Panhellenic attend conferences on sorority relations and use what they learn as guidelines in governing the sororities on campus. Foreigll soviet Ambassador and u·hder Secretary General of the United Nations, AJ*ady Shevchenko will speak at Memorial Chapel toni,9'ht at a p.m-. f/) c:: ~ .~ Cil > CIJ .. ~ > .c ~ s::. c.

Pa~:e 6 ('();'\'CO« JJI E V.W.\; f(.'lmlu(a· 16. 198.J. - - Pr anc A offi Pre cou tha1 tha1 wa1 wa~ allo ask diff coU ThE intE Pr€ 10, '\ libE div Ac< t.he not stu1 stu :fer~ spe en!' art teg Th• edt he1 stu Hu \~ C(] a di an Sci of' kir Un thE ~ Un • re~ COl att pe COJ pi< ar• kn fe1 si2 fie ac on in diJ . ' sp m

CONCORDIENSIS. FebrtiU(I' 16, 1984 Page 7 FEATURES Preslden.f Morris: Speakin!JWith: The Man in C.harg~ f;.; . By DAVE FITZGERALD and' FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Featul,'eS Editors As soon as we entered the office of J.obn S. Morris President of Union College, we could feel the sense of history that exists In the office but also that the man who occupies it wanted us to feel at home. It was this sense .of warmness that allowed us to feel at ease in asking President Morris some difficult questions about the college and also about his job. The following is the result of the interview that we had with President .Morris on February 10, 1984. '\\Union College is a different liberal arts college with· a: division ef engineering.,, According to .. President Morris the fact that Union attempts to not only educate liberal arts Students or only engineering stud~nts makes it very dif- ferent. At Union there is no special school or division for engineering aut both the liberal arts and engineering are in- tegrated together in one school. The result of the ·special education that students receive here then is engineering students that are aware of the Humanities and Social Sciences \When you step onto the college you feel you are in a place with. a huma~ dimension.'' -Morris and Humanities and Sodal Science students that are aware of engineering. It is this special kind of education that prepares Union students for the world of the 1980's and 1990's. The students that attend Union are h~re for a number of • reasons but there are certain common factors. Students that attend Union do so because they want an education with a personal touch. Anyone that comes here wants to study in a place that they know that they are. going to be able to get to know their professors and fellow students closely. With the size that Uni()n is. it is not dif· ficult for people to become well acquainted. \When you step onto the college you feel you are in a place with a human dimension., The role of the pr~sident in a special place like Union takes many forms. Many tasks need to be performed in a variety of areas but the m~jor function of the president according to President Morris, :ts to provide leadership to the institution. This lea5lership function is exercised in some cases through his immediate staff, the deans and vice presidents of the college. To do his job the president needs a clear un- derstanding of the institution and a firm understanding of the future direction of the college. Two of the things that the president feels that the college needs the most is a student center and a renovated gym. These two major projects will not only require extended periods of planning but · also . large sums of money. The. president feels that it has been the community that has ar- ticUlated its need for these projects and it is his job to help in this articulation and to }lelp accomplish what needs to be done. ''Union is a strong college and because of its unique mixture has an important place in education., President Morris feels that Union should be more widely recognized. People in education know about Union and give it the respect that it deserves. Proof of this can be seen,in the U.S. News and World Report poll of college presidents from across the country. In this poll Union came in third place in its category. The president believes that this is proof that people· in ~Elucation know the kind of institution Union is and now it is important to' spread this knowledge to the general public. Besides the two • major projects that are being ,planned, of the student center and Alumni Qym renovation, a number of other projects are underway to change the physical and academic con- dition of the college. Among the changes is the completion of the second phase of the renovation of the Art's Building. President Morris .says that he will be glad to see the second phase finished because· it will help strengthen the Arts program of the college. AlSo the five-year plan to im- prove and upgrade the com~ puter equipment on campus is underway. In the area of curriculum the Sloan Project is helping the college look at what it has to offer and is also helping to develop new courses. One of the major topics of discussion this term has been KAYDEROSS PARK •SARATOGA <•~: I the proposal .to split winter term so that everyone will have a longer Spring break and so that the school year will end earlier in the spring, President Morris will not make a public an- nouncement on how he feels. on this issue becf;\use the faculty is still discussing . it. He did however discuss the pros and cons of the issue. With the present calendar the faculty does not really receive a break while the students do in late March because during that week they are correcting papers and preparing for Spring term. By splitting Winter term ,.·~'~· \ ~\ ·Continued on page 8 Union College President John Morris reflects on his term at Union. Students Illtern at St. Clare's St.' Clare's Hospital's Com- munity Service Program is celebrating its ninth birthday with more Union College and S.U.N.Y. Albany students in- terested and involved than ever. The program provides St. Clare's With students eager to help and helps students eager for the experience. · \I think the program is both visible (~roundSt. Clare's~ and valuable,\ said Jeanne Swanson, director of volunteer services and the person responsible for the program's vitality: \It's a benefit to all those involved,\ she added. The ten-week program gives students \the opportunity to see what Teally goes on in· a hospital,'' said Shari Midoneck, a chemistry major at Union College. For six hours each week, students visit another department, from pediatrics, family health, dental, and pharmacy to emergency and recovery rooms, critical care unit, nuclear medicine, radiology, and others. \Students get to learn, early on, what they like,\ Swanson said. \We once had a pre-med student who changed her major after visiting our dental clinic.\ For others, interning at St. Clare's has reinforced their goals. \I think being in a hospital has made me want to be a doctor more,\ Midoneck said. Valerie Gutterman, a senior math major at Union, is working in the program~ because she \wants to make a final decision'' about medicine. Gutterman had worked in a hospital before, as a can- dystriper, but didn't see or do that much. \We changed sheets, bed pa_D:.st but at St. · Clare's, ''I coUld have seen an autopsy if I wanted to.'' In the future, Swanson wants to see more research done with the students. By itself, \the hospital has no money for that,\ she said. With Union and SUNY helping out, St. Clare's \could take advantage of all the bright minds here., For the time being, Union students write papers, which are helpful for the depa~ments. Swanson says she and the departments accept suggestions, because sometimes students can see what the staff can't. The students will never be as objective as they ar~ right now,\ Swanson said. \We can give them the insight at how the patients look at the doctors. They may never have the chance again.'' 84-85 Terms Abroad Offered The annual Terms Abroad meeting was held last Thur- sday. Over 100 students gathered to learn about the foreign study opportunities available for next year. As pre- registration is quickly ap- proaching, students who wish to go abroad in the fall term should submit their applications by the end of this week. The terms offered in the fall will be a term in Bath, England, one in Rennes, France, and in Florence, Italy. There is, at present, no prerequisite for the term in England, a French 134 prerequisite for' France, and an Italian 10 prerequisite for Italy. These requirements can be met in the spring term. There will also be a Union-York exchange in which about 5 students are selected to go to the C91lege of Ripon-st. John in York, while a like number of their students spend the fall term here. Summer term Study of Socialized Medicine in Three Countries applications will be due by March 1. This program studies health care institutions in England, Sweden and Eastern Europe. Winter terms will take place in Athens, Greece, which require a prerequisite course of Classics 21, a kibbutz in Israel, and a new program in Cuer- navaca, Mexico. The new r I _......,._....._ ___ ~ ···~· g~; I I I way? I ISRAEL. 1 SHERUT LA'AM I A Service To The People I ·1 Six Months to One Year Program InCludes: • Work Experience ··1· · • Housing and Stipend • Hebrew Study • Medical Insurance • Tours and Seminars I coNrAcT:Julie Baretz • 381-3916 I I AZYF/Sherutla'am!515ParkAve.,NYC10022 (212)751·6070 I ~-----·----- program will feature a two track Spanish course, a course on +vtexican culture, and a course or courses shared by Professor Ginsberg and Professor Nichols. Mexico also has many travel oppoi'tunities for the student interested enough tu go about on weekends. The spring term in 1985 will take place in Schwaebisch-Hall Germany. It is a small town near Stuttgart and requires a two track prerequisite in German 11 or German 133. Any student at. the College may take a term abroad. The eligibility req~irements are a 2.0 average or more. The cost is similar to the cost of a term on campus. For more information, see Joan Freeman in the TERMS ABa.OAD office.

Page8 CONCORD/ENS/~~: Fehruar,r 16, 1984 FEATURES _Big Brothers- Big Sisters Baseball Hall of Fame Farmer's Museum Trip The Executive Board of Big Brothers-Big Sisters at Union College is sponsoring a trip to the Baseball Hall of Fame, and the Farmer's · Museum in Cooperstown, New York on Saturday., February 18. TranspOiiation. admission, and snacks will be provided. All Bigs and their Littles are invited to attend. Group me Ill bers are also invited to participate. The bus will leave at 9:00a.m. from the parking lot in back of Fox House. There are a limited number of seats available, so please call our office, 3744523, and make your reservation as soon as possible. BowlFor~Uds'Sake Our third annual BOWL FOR KIDS' SAKE is being held March 11-18 with Celebrity Sunday March 11 at BoQlevard Bowl. Every dollar that is raised goes directly to supporting the Little Brothers and Little Sisters in our program. Please continue to support us by Sowling, For Kids' Sake on Celebrity SWtday, March 11. Just call in to get sponsor sheets and bowling assignments, 314- 4530. You can bowl individually, you can form a team to bowl, you can have your team challenge another team. We need volunteers to help in the bowling alleys, if you can contribute one or two evenings during the week of February~5- March 2, please call and sign up. Issue of tile Issue: Pornography At Union? By JUDI PHILIPSON What do you thiilk of bavlng pornographic fllms being shown on campus? Prof. Charles Tldmarcb, Political Scleace---:\No I don't think the college should penuit showing of pornographic films. I think we alHcnow what we are talking about when we say pornography-not artistic .fUms, but trash that dehwnanizes . women. If anybody wants t.o see porn they should go to Colonie Theatre on State Street. ''Porno theatres and adult . book stores should be left alone -to show and sell what they want. I think it's inappropriate on a college campus.\ Amy ·stake,. '87-\I see nothing wrong with having pornographic films shown on campus. I feel if, peopl~ don't like what they stand for, they don't have to go-.-there ill a freedom of choice.'' Winston o~ BUss '87-''I don't really think it hurts. Just as long as they don't show it to little kidS . . . \ Susan Rubman, '84-\I think people who are old enough to come to college ar~ old enough to make a choice whether to see the movie or not.\ Dave Hersey, '85---\Judging from the number of tickets sold it seems that the crowd enjoyed it.\ . Mary Carroll, '8&-\I would never .go see one. The idea of sitting there with fraternities watching Wanda Whip~ wan Street doesn't do anytbing for ·me.\ Sue MUesky '87~\I was stunned that people were making such a big deal about it. I just don't think it's that big of an issue.'' place to .go to be exposed to tne real world. Profanity is quite abundant in the real world.'' Kimberly Galvin '87--\'Smce college students are considered to be adults, they shoUld be able to make their own decisions as to whether or not they go watch a porno movie. The idea of the movies being shown doesn't offend. me, yet I doubt I would go see one.'' Mjke Glass '87~\It seems to me that people were ridiculing the filin and having a good time rather than debatf.itg over whether or not it should be shown.'' Conversation with Morris C·ont. Jbn Pemrick '87-\We must be exposed to the sickness of the profane world. It exposes the Union society to the evils in sexual exposlU\e. College is a Prof. Martha. Huggins-, Sociology\\·-' 1 I'm against . por- nographic films- being shown anywh.ere. Pornography degrades woJ;nen (or men) when ·they . ate the object o~. degrading~ d,ehumanbing violence~ Pornography is, not the same as \joYful sex\ bet- ween consenting adults. I don't believe that it v:iolates. _civil liberties or free speech to prohibit the showing of these films.\ Coatinued from page 7 the faculty will have more .time for themselves and the students will be in a better summer job hunting position by being available earlier. However he does see the harm that splitting the term could do to the Term Abroad program, and feels that this has to be\taken into con- sideration when a final decision is made. In some respect he feels that by late May and early . JWJ,e the students are ready to leave for the summer. \The symbol that Spring has come is the weekend party.\ President Morris has some definite feelings on alcohol and how it should be used on campus. \Students use alcohol to lubricate social occasions, and often they overindUlge; to be social one does · not need alcohol and students may find this out in time.\ President Morris feels that students should be allowed to drink on campus and that there should be places like the Pub and Skellar in which students can drink. If the drinking age should be legally raised in New York the President feels that the college will be put in a different situation. If the drinking age is raised he says that \a serious look will have to be taken.\ The discussion then turned to the issue of visibility. President Morris stated that, yes, the president (he) should be visible to all (students, professors, and alumni). He added, \Unfor- tunately, we are in the middle of a campaign and it becomes very difficult to balance the on and off-campus demands. We (hie and his wife, Enid) try to · attend college events, to be at lectures, concerts, and other functions. Unfortunately, there has not been one week that I have not been away somewhere.\ lie does wish to try to alleviate much of the mystery and mystique that surrounds an important ad- ministrator as himself. Exposure · is one method of doing this. His teaching provides another method of exposure; \Through teaching I come into contact with students and also with some of the problems facing professors and students.\ · The President's :Banquet fo:r the Freshman Class also provided another avenue for \I have helped Union develop its persouality which already existed.\ ·Morris exposure to the students; \The dinner represented an im- portant revival of a tradition which brings students together as a class in a semi-formal situation.\ It provided the Freshmen with a \s:Ylllbol of his presence.'' President Morris also supplements his exposure to students by inviting the heads of various student activities over for dinner at his house. \Union is an important part of Schenectady,\ answered the President. As the third (or fourth) largest employer in Schenectady, it is of economic importance. He rec<~gnized the large amount of money and people which Union brings to Schenectady. \I am an in- dividual who takes Schenectady seriously; it is, important to recognize its importance and its health,\ he added. . The focus of the discussion turned to the rising costs of a. college education. ~resldent The Union College Gaming Assoc~ation is sponsoring an A D & D~ Tournam-ent February 17 & 18 Call6944 For more informatipn Morris contradicted the myth that the Trustees- raise tUition just because other insitutions do so; \We don't raise tuition for the heck of it. We all (other schools and Union) face the same general needs. If we want to give equivalent quality and to increase the educational quality we have to change tuition about the same amount. We coUld reduce the cost, but the quality would go. doVin, something we could not do for very long.\ Black History Month . President Morris commented on the changes he has seen in Union. \In the past several years I have been here I have seen Union become much more clearly Union; to do what it does best.\ He feels he has \helped Union develop its personality which already existed. I have let Union ·be Union.\ As for his job as president, Morris made the final statements, \It is a busy job, but there are many things about it which are good which make it well worthwhile. Union has so much going fCJr it; a first tate faculty, a good.student body ... all of the elements that are important for an education as we go into the late 80's and 90's.\ To be involved in Union, to him is, \a marvelous challenge andopportWtity for a college president. I enjoy the job because I enjoy being at Union.\ By LYSTRA COX The mooth of February has been officially declared as Black History month for several years. This practice first began as Black History ,·week. This week was originally dedicated to the commemoration of the birthday of abolitionist orator, and journalist Frederick· Douglas. Black History month is a time when the .works of famous blacks such as Martin Luther King, Malcohn X and recently Guy ]3Iuford, the first black astronaut, are reflected on and praised. The black culture has been a great influence in this society. Blacks have contributed to the world of dance, music and sports, but\ even more im· portantly to the academic world as well. The black culture has contributed to the world of medicine exploration and in- dustry. For instance, Charles Richard Drew, surgeon and pioneer in the production and preservation of blood plasma; eStablishetl the flrst blood bank, yet his blood was rejected because he was black. Dr. Free 32 oz. soda with any order over $5 sundays & Mondays only in February BUY THE BEST PIZZA Free Delivery on Campo~· Oaniel Hale Williams, a black surgeon performed the world's first successful heart operation nearly a century ago. Also Mathew Henson, a black man, was the first to reach the North Pole in 1909. The black culture is a rich culture, that dates back to the ancient city of Timbuktu. Cleopatra, although falsely portrayed as caucasian was a black queen. She became one of Africa'sgreatest female rulers, and influenced not only the black culture, but the Roman culture as well. · Black History month is the celebration of a long struggle for equality, and of the milestones that have been achieved. The- achievements of the black culture are evident when we acknowledge . how many blacks are in top, colleges around the country, such as Yale; Harvard, Cornell, arid Union. It is .evident when we acknowledge how many blacks are doctors, lawyers, and a AOSt of other commendable oc- cupations. With all of this ih IIlind I say let the celebration begin, the celebration of a race that has endured that is en- during, and will endure to the end. Annual Schuffer Library Book Sale · will be held in the library Tuesday and · · Wednesday, Feb. 21 & ·22, be9'innlng 9:30 a.m. on Tuesday. $1.00for hard cover .soq for paperback - - Ft LCl stud CO:U Inte e:xpE Pro: Poli how' mid1 was for triu Nicl willi but assi Smi end hiin assi Tirr ass Pol ak rei~ T Per the Sci4 con enr Sci! intE an( Uni At ye<l to

CONCORJJIENS/.\', Ft!bruaiT 16, 1984 Poge9 From Student To Teacher By PETER MOHR Staff Studies. During the summer of 1982, he enrQlled in an intensive ten-week Russian language ,program at Middlebary Colleg.e. Smith spent the following summer studying in Leningrad. ae enrolled in a ten- week. program, sponsored by a group of United States colleges, which consisted of three courses in the Russian. language and culture. In addition to, these studies, Smith haS also travelled throughout Europe, broadening bis perspective on international events. Havjng fulfirted his simulations at the end of the course, with students taking on different p()litical roles. Smithadlnitsthat he does. feel a bit awkward, ''not really being a student and not being a teacher ... in trying to get .from behindthedeskto in front of the desk, I think I've ended up somewhere on top of the desk.'' He also knows some of· his students well, which puts him in quite an unusual position. When asked how he would like to be addressed, Smith states, \All I want to be called is Tim .. \ In March, he .plans to begin his work with the research team at MIT. FEATURES Joanne Tobiessen, Director of Career Center Last fall, wh~n Union students preregistered for the course, ·_~Contemporary International Politics,\ they expected to be instructed by Professor Charles Gati o.f Political Science. Gati, however, .became ill in the middle of the winter term, and was unable to teach his courses for the duration · of the trimester. Professor Byron Nichols of Political Science was willing to lecture in Gati's class but felt that he Would need an assistant. He contacted Tim Smith, who graduated at the end of last term, and offered hiin the position of teaching assistant. Smith, who possesses graduation req~irements early, Smith gtaduated six months ahead of scltedule. After leavmg Union, Smith: intended to begin working in research on the Soviet· Unicn at the Massachusetts. Institute of Technology. Before he was scheduled .to begin work, however, Professor Nichols had contacted him. On the Career Front- Developing Career Contacts Tim Smith, temporary teaching assistant for Prof. Gati's Political Science 12. a keen interest in U.S.-Soviet relations, accepted the offer. Tim Smith, a native of Pennsylvania, entered Union in the fall of 1980 as a Political Science major with interests in continUing on in law. After enrolling in a few Political Science courses, he became interested in the Soviet Union and in relations between the United States and that country. At the end of his sophomore year, Smith changed his major to Comparative Communist Smith began teaching. on Mcmday. February 6. From the start, he was interested in the teaching position. For some time, he has contemplated a career in teaching. Thus, this post will not only offer him excellent experience, but it will also assist hun in deciding on a ., career.· He mentions, \I like the Union environment. There's a l~t a professor can do as far as motivating .the students.\ Smith is teaching Con- temporary International Politics in conjun~tion with Professor Nichols. Each is resp<>nsible for ce$in lectures, but Smith plans on speaking primarily at those lectures devoted to·relations between the United States -and the Soviet Union. He enjoys teaching with Nichols, mentioning \Professor Nichols and I don't necessarily agree on all topics.\ With regard to U.S • ..Soviet relations, Smith sees himself as the more conservative of the two. He approaches the class with an open mind, however. \I like to hear what other people have to say,\ he notes. ·He plans on conducting international By DIANNE·PAVACIC Career Assistant Three Albany employment 'counselors recently wrote a book entitled, \Secrets of the Hidden Job Market.\ In the book they pointed to a federal Department of Labor study that found only 15 percent of jobs are landed through the traditional search methods-responding to help wanted ads, using private employment agencies, public job banks and using college placement services. In contrast, 48 percent of jobs were obtained through ''knowing someone'' (contacts). Through two strategies, . known as networking and in- / formation interviewing the necessary contacts to landing a job can be established. Networking is bas.ed on a referral system. Let people know what you're looking for ... contact' former employees, relatives, friends, and especially professors. Sometimes faculty members don't make the connectio,n between your career interests and your scholarly pursuits. Let them know what you are looking Spring Term Preregistratio·n Notice Preregistration .materia Is for spring term 1983-84 will be available at the Office of the Registrar, Silliman Hall, beginning Monday, February 20th. Students are urged to s~cure their preregistration materials promptly. Students who do not plan to return to U niori for the spring term, E.XCEPT for graduating seniors, must im- mediately give notice of their plans to the Office of the Dean of Students. Potential March graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to complete the.ir studies at the end of winter term, if they have not already done so. Students should confer with Faculty Advisers during the w~ek of February 20-24th. Some departments may . annot:Jnce special arrangements for advising. Please be alert for such announcements. Course requests are due at the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, Fe~ruary 27th. A TEN DOLLAR. ($1'0.00) LATE FEE WILL BE ASSESSE.D THEREAFTER! Please be on time, even though your schedule may be incorpple1e! PLEASE NOTE·: Required cards for designated spring term courses wiil not be available from departments until the Wednesday morning of the week of preregistration; Februart 22s for as specifically as possible and ask if they can suggest people whom you could talk to. Once you have a person to contact, call them and tell them who referred you. Ask them if you can send your resume or come in for an intervk!w. If they can't help you, ask if they can refer you to someone else . Through networking you can build a large base of contacts in which to work from. Probably the most important thing to remember about networking is: Don't underestimate the knowledge of any person you know. Another strategy that aids in establishing contacts, and exploring your career o b· j ectives is information in- terviewing. This technique has many benefits. First, you can learn first hand what is done on .a day- to-day basis by those in your career field and can relate this to your own skills, values, and interests. You will gather information about the opportunities that exist in a given field or organization. You will.be able to seek out the \problem areas\ of an organization where you can be the solution. You'll be able to examine organizational settings and make conclusions as to your own work-environment needs. Because it is. not a job in- terview, you will be able to sell your skills and abilities in a low- threat, open-ended situation. Finally, you will develop contact with people in key positions who either do the hiring or who are asked for . sugge$ions by t:Qose who do. The information interview process is really a simple one but because of various excuses (I don't want to bother them or I'll never get by the recep- tionists) many students don't utilize the technique. However, according to the Journal of College Placement, \Just one successful experience is .often enough to keep students in- terested in carrying out the process.\ The process goes as follows. 1) Identify the field you're interested in and the person you want to interview. Alumni listings in the Career Development Center can help with this step-they organize alumni by occupation, industry, employer, location and college major. 2) Arrange the interview by telephone or letter. Ask for 2o-30 minutes and stress that you are seeking information, not a job. 3) Prepare your questions and research the organization. Make sure to ask about the career and academic path that led to their current job, their job responsibilities during a typical day, and specific personal advice. 4) Treat the jnterview as an actual job interview by dressing appropriately, being prompt and courteous. Also, be in control of the interview-yon are interviewing them. 5) Always ask for a referral- \Who else can I talk with?\ Once the interview is over a thank you note should be sent, and an evaluation of the in- terview made-Is this the kind of organization you'd like to work in?, Did it help clarify your career goals? At some point after the in- terview, if you decide this is the field for you, you could once again write to your contact, explain your purpose and en- close a resume. Ask to be kept in mind for future position~. Every contact should be followed up periodically to keep your name circulating in case a position does open up. NOTE: The Career Development Center will be sponsoring Career Ohservation Days again in the spring for anyone interested in doing information interviews in their career fields. The Union Talent Show • Come see Union talent perform for your pleasure • Comedy, song and dance • 9 p.m. at the Dutch Hollow Pub • Cash bar, no admission • Saturday, Feb. 18

PUf.:£' I() ('().'\'('OR f)J 1:'.\'SIS, Fehrum:r /6, /98./ Foundnl al llmoo ('ollq:t 1877 · ------------ ----------- Looking Ahead To Spring Currently we are in what many students feel is one of the worst times of the school year. Not only is it winter term, but the pressure is on. If you have finished midterms, then you probably have papers and projects (possibly even a thesis) to do before finals. Winter term is more than half over and you can't seem to find enough time to do everything you are supposed to do. With this combination of ac::tdemic pressure and cold weather, it is not sur- pnsing that most Union students do not want to get involved with any extracurricular activities. Yoa may have guessed by now that this is yet another in our ongoing series of \student apathy\ editorials. However, this one is a little different from the others. If you want to be apathettc,fine. Go ahead and be a vegetable. But first take a few minutes and think about what's ahead: spring· term, warm weather, sunny skies, and especially CAMP UNION. Next term you probably (hopefully) will not want to be a typicallv apathetic Union College student. Unfortunately though, your lack of interest in ac- tivities now may have serious consequences in the future. In rarticular, the fate of Camp Union, one of the best days all year, is on the line. Each year, the Concert and Social Committees co- sponsor Camp Union. Members of these committees work for months in advance to i:Jlan what has traditionally been a highlight of the spring term. More members of the campus conununity take part in and enjoy this event than any other. Just remember last year's Camp Union: lying in the sun, listening to live music'; playing frisbee, a barbecue, free beer ... In the past, Camp Union has been free for all Union students. This was possible because there was a sufficient number of students on the Social Com- mittee. This year, however, there are just not enough students who are willing to help out. Consequently, Camp Union may not be as amazing as it has been in the past. In addition, without enough students to work (checking I.D.'s, serving food and. beer, etc.), the Social Committee may be forced to hire outside help. If this shollld happen, each student attending Camp Union may have to pay an entrance fee of about $7 .00. It may seem awfully early to start thinking ab~ut an event that doesn't take place until the end of sprmg term. One has to realize,-however, that it takes a lot of time and effort to plan an activity which involves the entire student body. The time to act is now. Think it over before it's too late. -First Notice~-~- Student Activities General Meeting For all student activities leaders WHEN: Tuesday, February 28, 1984 at 4:30 p.m .. WHERE: Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall WHY: To discuss 1984-85 budget process Attendance is required! Deadline for 1984-85 budgets: Aprill7, 1984 -' LETTERS The Facts Reve~led To the Editor: When it comes to the subject of nuclear war, the facts have become grossly exaggerated by · well-meaning but misinformed anti-nuclear activists. ·Fiction writers and movie makers have further muddled the situation by either not taking the time or simply not caring enough to collect the real facts. - A nuclear war would cer• tainly .be a horrible event, but the fallacies being circulated by anti-nuclear groups does · nothing to avert war and cer- tainly nothing to increase people's chances of surviving such a war. These groups have lost sight of the fact that we are dealing with Russia, a country · whose government has con- sistently shown itself to have nq concern for human life and whose only goal is the spre~d of its twi11ted form of communism and the oppre11sion of it!! Citizens. The belief that a nuClear exchange woUld. resUlt in \the end -of the world'' is simply a fabrication by ,those who don't know the facts. Case studies done in Hiroshima and Nagasaki show only marginally higher occurrences of cancer and leukemia than nonnal. Studies conducted by the Nati(mal Academy of Sciences cQncluded that after several years, the ozone layer would regenerate, climatic changes would return to normal, anq animal and plant populations would be reestablished. Fur• thermor:e, tests done in the Oak Ridge National Laboratory show that if you live outside a prima~:y strike area and have a properly stocked and c.an- structed shelter, your chances of surviving .a nuclear war are quite good. - Certainly, parents who fail to take steps to· protect their children in advance may ·one day be viewed as the most Irresponsible beings to have walked the face of the earth. Artd,remern:ber, those who fail to prepare must prepare to fail . . . andit may be later than you think. Michael Einstein Class of'86 Women's Suppo:rt Gro,up An~ers To the Editor: Regarding the article of February 9, 1984 \Women's Support Group Questioned\ we would like to thank Cona · cordiensis for the coverage of and interest in this issue. We would like to add that we are still welcoming new members to the group. If you are in- terested in sharing your i thoughts and in getting to know other women at Union in a group setting of concern..-and support, we welcome you to attend our me~ting~. We have recently be.en notified that due to proposed new student Forum bylaws, the Women's Support Group is in immediate danger .of being denied funding-status by the Forum. We strongly believe that our goal of encoliraging open communication in a supportive atmosphere makes .a positive and worthwhile con- tribution to women at Union. If you share this ·view and want to show your support, or if you are interested in joining us, call Theresa Shank, 382-2001 or Ravit Avni,. 381-:3916. , ·· Members of Women's Support Group. . . Commentary Follow-Up To the Editor: In reply to a commentary I wrote two weeks ago con- cerning the policy of the college regarding sexual harassment and incidents of sexual violence, Assistant Deans of Students Robert Massa and Joanne 'fobiessen discussed with me the various aspects of the problem. It seems that the college administration is indeed con- cerned about the matter. My commentary dealt with the apparent fact that there were no specific policy statements and guidelines as to how the ad- ministration would, could, and should handle individual cases of harassment and-or violence. The two deans informed me, however, that there were in ffl.d specific guidelines. At this. time though, these written guidelines are · for interdepartmental circulation and have not been circulated throughout the student body. After reading policy statements, they seem quite specific in fact and I urge the administration to make them available to the student population in order to alleviate · some fears and perhaps presently-held misconceptions: Massa and Tobiessen at the same time urged me to em· phasize the fact that the office of the deans of students is designed to help students. They cannot do this however unless individuals come to them for help. Massa stressed that if a student came to him with a problem but wanted to keep the matter strictly confidential, this wish would be respected, Massa and Tobiessen also wished to note that even if a student came to them with a problem of harassment or violence, yet did not want to make any charges, the fact that he or she made the matter known to the administration is still better than keeping the matter to him or herself. places. Steps could then be · taken to ensure that such an incident does not occur again. I join Assistant Deans Massa and Tobiessen in urging students to · inform either security or the office of tlw deans of students if they know of any such incidents occurring on campus or on the borders o£ the campus. If attacks on students on this campus are kept quiet neither the student body nor the administration will be able to adequately control and correct the situation. The entire college community must care enough to. take some sort of action before we can make this campus relatively safe. Marcy Burstiner Security in that case can be informed that such an incident has occurred without having to •••••••••••••••••••••- . divulge any names or specific iiiiiiii .. To I .H a vi hav tiqu infe Typ for Onl• tissi the H nok reci that 'of il the-• of 1 To B and are beii adn dog D . our sinl tuit: hav hist the eve1 Con cou To1 S« our witl \' u veg1 S« hav lern u em S« well disl1 H To 1 I effo Wor Chr to < Mo1 nog I of .s not - To I Co1 let1 dis pOl cal SUJ rel thE $0( 1 ini letl lin prE in: of St1 Fe thE

Page /() COS( 'OROIF.\'SIS. Fchruarr lfJ. 19/U. <!LllltOlrbirnsis Fouru/,rJ al fimQn Coll~e /8, .. :' ------------ ------------ Looking Ahead To Spring Currently, we are in what many students feel is.on.e of the worst times of the school year. Not only 1s 1t winter terrh, but the pressure is on. If you have finished midterms, then you probably have papers and projects 1 possibly even a thesis) to do before finals. Winter term is more than half over and you can't seem to find enough time to do everything you are supposed to do. With this combination of academic pressure and cold weather, it is not sur- pnsing that most Union students do not want to get involved with any extracurricular activities. You may have guessed by now that this is yet another in our ongoing series of \student apathy\ editorials. However, this one is a little different from the others. If you want to be apathetic, fine. Go ahead and be a vegetable. But first take a few minutes and think about what's ahead: spring term, warm weather, sunny skies, and especially CAMP UNION. Next term you probably ! hopefully) will not want to be a typicallv apathetic Union College student. Unfortunately though, your lack of interest in ac- tivities now may have serious consequences in the future. In rarticular, the fate of Camp Union, one of the best days all year, is on the line. Each year, the Concert and Social Committees co- sponsor Camp Union. Members of these committees work for months in advance to ;>Ian what has traditionally been a highlight of the spring term. More members of the campus community take part in and enjoy this event than any other. Just remember last year's Camp Union: lying in the sun, listening to live music; playing frisbee, a barbecue, free beer ... In the past, Camp Union has been free for all Union students. This was possible because there was a sufficient number of students on the Social Com- mittee. This year, however, there are just not enough students who are willing to help out. Consequently, Camp Union may not be as amazing as it has been in the past. In addition, without enough students to work (checking I.D.'s, serving food and beer, etc.), the Social Committee may be forced to hire outside help. If this should happen, each student attending Camp Union may have to pay an entrance fee of about $7 .00. It may seem awfully early to start thinking about an event that doesn't take place until the end of spring term. One has to realize, however, that it takes a lot of time and effort to plan an activity which involves the entire student body. The time to act is now. Think it over before it's too late. -First Notice~- Student Activities General Meeting For all student activities leaders WHEN: Tuesday, February 28, 1984 at 4:30 p.m. WHERE: Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall WHY: To dis cuss 1984-85 budget process Attendance is required! Deadline for 1984-85 budgets: Apri I 17, 1984 /. ' • ,.· * • •. ·• • . ~ • • . • ' • • ' • • . • \ ' • ' • \ LETTERS The Facts Reveq.led To the Editor: When it comes to the subject of nuclear war, the facts have become grossly exaggerated by well-meaning but misinformed anti-nuclear activists. Fiction writers and movie maker:s have further muddled the situation by either not taking the time or simply not caring enough to collect the real facts. A nuclear war would cer- tainly be a horrible event, but the fallacies being circulated by anti-nuclear groups does nothing to a vert war and cer- tainly nothing to increase people's chances of surviving such a war. These groups have lost sight of the fact that we are dealing with Russia, a country whose government has con- sistently shown itself to have nQ concern for human life and whose only goal is the spread of its twisted form of corrununism and the oppression of its citizens. The belief that a nuclear exchange would result in \the end of the world\ is simply a fabrication by those who don't know the facts. Case studies done in Hiroshima and Nagasaki show only marginally higher occurrences of cancer and leukemia than normal. Studies conducted by the National Academy of Sciences concluded that after several years, the ozone layer would regenerate, climatic changes would return to normal, and animal and plant populations would be reestablished. Fur- thermore, tests done in the Oak Ridge National Laboratory show that if you live outside a primary strike area and have a properly stocked and con- :>tructed shelter, your chances <lf surviving a nuclear war are (juite good. Certain:ly, parents who fail to take steps te protect their children in advance may one day be viewed as the most irresponsible beings to have '-Yalked the face of the earth. And.remember, those who fail to prepare must prepare te fail . . . and it may be later than you tbink. Michael Einstein Classof'86 Women's Support Group An~ers To the Editor: Regarding the article of February 9, 1984 \Women's Support Group Questioned\ we would like to thank Con- cordiensis for the coverage of and interest in this issue. We would like to add that we are still welcoming new members to the group. If you are in- terested in shari11g your thoughts and in getting to know other women at Union in a group setting of concern -and support, we welcome you to attend our meetings. We have recently been notified that due to proposed new Student Formn bylaws, the Women's Support Group is in immediate danger of being denied funding-status by the Forum. We strongly believe t1Jat our goal of encouraging open communication in a supportive atmosphere makes a positive and worthwhlie cen- tribution to women at Union. If you share this view and want to show your support, or if y()u are interested in joining us, call Theresa Shank, 382-2001 or Ravit Avni, 381-3916. Members of Women's Support Grou. Commentary Follow-Up To the Editor: In reply to a commentary I wrote two weeks ago con- cerning the policy of the college regarding sexual harassment and incidents of sexual violence, Assistant Deans of Students Robert Massa and Joanne Tobiessen discussed with me the various aspects of the problem. It seems that the college administration is indeed con- cerned about the matter. My commentary dealt with the apparent fact that there were no specific policy statements and guidelines as to how the ad- ministration would, could, and should handle individual cases of harassment and-or violence. The two deans informed me, however, that there were in fact specific guidelines. At this time though, these written guidelines are for interdepartmental circulation and have not been circulated throughout the student body. After reading policy statements, they seem quite specific in fact and I urge the administration to make them available to the student population in order to alleviate some fears and perhaps presently-held misconceptions: Massa and Tobiessen at the same time urged me to em- phasize the fact that the office of the deans of students is designed to help students. They cannot do this however unless individuals come to them for help. Massa stressed that if a student came to him with a problem but wanted to keep the matter strictly confidential, this wish would be respected. Massa and Tobiessen also wished to note that even if a student came to them with a problem of harassment or violence, yet did not want to make any charges, the fact that he or she made the matter 1 known to the administration is still better than keeping the matter to him or herself. Security in that case can be informed that such an incident has occurred without having to divulge any names or specific places. Steps could then be taken to ensure that such an incident does not occur again. I join Assistant Deans Massa and Tobiessen in urging students to inform either security or the office of the deans of students if they know of any such incidents occurring on campus or on the borders of the campus. If attacks on students 011 this campus are kept quiet nEither the student body nor the a<lministration will be able to a<iequately control and correct the situation. The entire college community must care enough to take some sort of action before we can make this cam!JUS relatively safe. Marcy Burstiner I li l I ti l i I I - - To tl H .. a vir have tiqui infec TypE for i Only tissu the t H.i nok1 recu that of th the i1 of tl Te t BE a11d are be in adm dog De our sine tuiti~ hav1 histc the« even Con< COUI Tot: So our with ,, Ur vege So• have lemc UD COM So• well, dish' UD To tl I 1 effor Worr Chrt to c~ Mon nogr I c of st not: To 1 Ir Con lett« disc por can sup· reli the soci T in it lett1 lim: pre: ina of I Stu Fet the

CONCOR[)IEN.ft,~IS. February /6, 1984 Pag~ 11 . . •' ~LETTERS From ·Health· Services From An Alum To the Editor; H.S.V. is not.simple .. Herpes is a viral disease ()f two types that have been around since an- tiquity. Type I usually CBUfieS infections above the waist and Type II is usually responsible for infections below the waist. Only a laboratory test, such as a tissue culture, can distingUish the type. H.S.V. is also a disease with no known cure that is subject to recurrences and remissions that are unpredictable. One out \of three never have more than the initial episode while two out of three will be plagued by recurrences~ What ·exactly reactivates the dormant virus is :1111known by ·physical or psy- chOlogical stress 1s highly likely. ·Guesstimates·claim20 million genital he~s sufferers in the U.S. alone. Genital herpes is a sexually transmitted disease, but since it is not in a reportable disease category, prevention of this common disease depends upon personal knowledge. The virus spreads when mucous membrane, any break in the skin or the genitalia comes in direct contact with the virus on a Uving host. The blisters and theit dta,inage contain many, many viruses but they requre moisture, ,body warmth and darkness to sur- vive. Therefore, spread .by non• living objects is highly suspect. Since some ·conditions can simulate a living host, certain g.eneral precautions should a_lways be practiced in dor~ mitory living. Use your own wash cloth and towel, use your own toothbrush, do not share food or eating utensils. Also, do not rely upon the condom to prevent direct contact because the virus is much smaller than the condom's pores and will · easily pass through. The Health Senices Dog Laws Cause Concern To the Editor: Being dog lovers, students and c.oncerned individuals, we are appalled by the actions .being taken by this school's administration with regard to dog restraint. Dogs have been members of . our community at the college. since 1795 (without paying tuition!). Like humans, dogs too have character~ In recent history a noted: canine .friend of the community was Monty; he even made it to the cover of Concordiensis. ·Throughout the! course of the day, such creatures as Monty give the passerby something to laugh Qr talk ;!bout (free of charge). A good example of this would be their role as harbingers of spring. Dogs facilitate a welcome break from our everyday routine of rigorous studies and sometimes monotonous life here at the college. · With regard to the behavior of dogs, most dogs I know behave better and more maturely than some of the illustrious students . attending Union, and for this reason they set a good example. . How many dogs do you know that go out on drunken binges or destroy campus property? Should such members of the student body be forced to wear leashes and be locked in cages at night? Dogs don't vandalize security vehicles, they do however fertilize the grounds. Their debris fertilizes, our debris just litters the campus. If our dogs are no longer permitted to bound tht·ough Union grounds, then you might as well do away with the brook. Respectfully submitted; . John Carl and Lee Aaron · ·A Committee and It's Custo·mers To the Editor: to eggs!\ . . To the Editor: I overheard a conversation the other day that encouraged and distressed me. It was en- . ·Couraging to hear the issue.· of screening X-rated movies being discussed, but discouraging, in that both, \sides'·' seemed to miss the point. Arg. 1: No similar outcry was raised over excessively violent movies, why the orotest over sexually violent movies? Isn't it practically the same thing? In a democratic society, such movies are allowed to be screened. Protest does little to alter the situation, on campus or in the larger society, so why botner? Atg. 2: Pornographic films cater to and unleash violent, anti-woman emotions in the viewer which can result in in- creased violence to and harassment of women on campus. Until the viewers are able to control their reactions and behave as responsible citizens, such movies should not be shown. This defense .(Arg. 2) was offered almost apologetically and both parties seemed wary of offending each other. This is not unduly surprising-sexual politics is a risky business when the \opponents\ lives are often so intertwined. Pornography is a manifestation of sexism: the reduction of female hwnan · beings to less than hwnan, no · more than the sum of their sexual parts, just as RACISM defines groups of hwnan beings by their skin color or religious belief. Pornography is sexist propaganda. If a screening of violently anti-semitic, Nazi propaganda were suggested, or racist KuKlux Klan films, the outcry would be deafening, the protest widespread and un- criticized. Yet, women who protest such a depicti~n of themselves are made to feel unjustified, humorless, and sometimes 1 's.uspected\ of being (gasp) ''rabid, manhating lesbians!\ (Anotherexam,ple of prejudice.) The_ predominantly male audiences who view these films are IndUlged-it is.a \night out with the boys.\ It is aca ceptable entertainment for women to be portrayed 'lnfilm as whores at heart,sexual animals, sexual objects, at the disposal and the command of men. Is it any wonder, in a society that produces such films, in a community that tolerates their screening, that violenee against women in \real life\ exists? If women are degraded in a movie, all women. are equally susceptible to such definitions~ And, if women are thus defined, how in turn does this define men? Women are dehUinanized py pornographic films, so too, are those who watch the films . If one group in society is discriminated against, brutalized, no one remains immune. By protesting these movies, women are rejecting the sexist definitions of women by men. Pornography is not solely a women's issue; when a society, by its silence, supports the degradation and dehumanization of one group in society at what point will protest begin? Ann E. B. Foster '82 Social Committee: · \Tonight our specialty is Filet Mignon with sauted mushrooms and ... \' Social Committee: \I'm sorry, I just don't know what I can possibly serve you?\ Union Student: \Me neither .. . I guess I'm just not hungry .. ' portunities for fun, but people just don't go. And, even if some do show up, they come with an attitude like, \I'll try it for about an hour and then go home.'' Union students corn- plain and grumble about the social life here ..• but it's their apathetic attitude to blame and unfortunately \apathy\ is contagious. If this \apathyH does not stop catching, soon everyone will lose their ap- petite! Opinions Criticized Union Students: \I'm a vegetarian . . . \ Soc~l Co:mm{ttee: \Well we have fabulous fillet of sole with lemon and . . . \ . Union Students: \I said, I'm a COMPLETE vegetarian!\ Social Committee: \Oh. . well,. we have scrumptious egg dishes,.like our quiche with . . '' Union Students: ''I'm aller:_gic \ The social committee is ob- viously nota waiter or waitress, , nor ar~ Union students its customers ... but the message is clear ... What more can the social committee do? Whatever they do, they are just ,not getting a positive response. First there was Rafters and then there was Fantasies . . .two great op- by a Non-Social Committee Member Efforts Applauded To the Editor: I would like to applaud the efforts of the Nt:wman Club, Women's Network, and tile Christian Fellowship. for trying to convince the student forum Monday night to ban por- nographic films on campus. I am. not against the showing of .such films on campus. I did not go to ''Wanda Whips Wall Street\ yet I do think that as · .long as there are enough people in the college who do enjoy seeing such films, such a money-making . movie should not be censored. · · I am proud of the three organizations,· however, for having the courage and in- tegrity to come. up before the forum to voice their beliefs and concerns. Too many people on this campus are either too apathetic or too intimidated to try to get things changed. The student forum is very often quite intimidating. I hope the three groups will not be too discouraged by the forwn's decision to speak up again the next time they feel concerned. A female student To the Editor: It is my understanding that there was a small and relatively localized amount of dissatisfaction with the Tuesday showing of \Wanda Whips Wall Street.\ And, although the impetus was small, it was still an important contingency that related to the college community as a whole. Due to the fact that I was unable to attend the feature, I was unable to pass judgement on the quality of the \en- tertainment\ presented, or the amount of \social redemption\ which it provided. Unfor- tunately though, I believe that this was also the case for those who so ardently opposed the showing of the movie. Per- sonally, I feel that these \righteous citizens\ of our conuntmity had no right to complain about the film without seeing it. To pre-judge is prejudice. What were these people op- posed to? The X-rating? I was told that these people were raising objections to the use of student funds to acquire the film. So where was the \Moral Majority\ when '~Dirty Harry\ was shown? Is violence not obscenity in its worst form? Apparently, the rest of the students had no objection to the use of student funds fm· the attaining of the film beeause both of the late shows were sold out hours in advance; and how often does this happen? My dear friends, once you begin to limit the right of others to choose what they wish to see or buy, you begin the slow but sure road to the suppression of the individual. If we, as in- telligent human beings, don't realize this, we'll soon be back in the dark ages. Sincerely, Kyle Siegel Classo£-'87 In Support of A Civil Liberty View of the Forum To the Editor: In the last week's issue of Concordiensis there were three letters to the editor expressing disapproval of the showing of pornographic movies on campus. The arguments in support ot tnose letters were religious, or they had to do with the status of the women in our society. The three groups who initiated the aforementioned letters, however, did not want to limit themselves to just ex- pressing their negative opinions in accordance with the showing of pornograhic movies. On the Student Forum meeting of February 13, representatives of the Women's Network, The Newman Club and the Catholic Club appeared in front of the .Student Formn in an attempt to completely prohibit the showing of such movies on campus. Ill: our opinion, trying to impose one's religious and extremist points of view on. a whole college commlillity is to go too far into the aforemen- tioned issue. We do understand the concerns of the above mentioned .groups, however we do not believe that under any circumstances whatsoever . shoUld the three clubs abolish rights provided by. the First Amendment of the American Constitution, among which is the fundamental right of freedom of speech and e,c- pression. Furthermore we do not believe that the clubs have To the Editor: the necessary power to override Having. attended the Student decisions of the Supreme Col.ll't Forum meeting of Febru~ry 13, of the US. which support the I would like to extend my ap- showing of pornographic predation to the majority of the movies. Banningthe showing of members of the Student Forum such movies will be a dangerous for their professional conduct in precedent on this campus and dealing with the discussion on the freedom of the students as a campus pornography. I was, whole may find itself in however r disappointed with the jeopardy. as a reslt of this conduct of a few of the Forum precedent. Therefore we . would members. These members did like to praise the film com-. , • not seem concerned with the mittee who, by bringing .s11ch · issue at.hand. They were, in- movies to the campus, helps stead, more concerned with the preserve the freedom of ex- fact that the discussion might pression,. speech and choice, • last until after 11:00 p.m., provided for by the Con- · forcing them to stay a few extra stitution. Jacques Simon minutes. It was this attitude and Todd Lewis that prompted me to write this '. letter. The Student Forum members are elected to serve the students that elected them. Many of these students, representing both sides of the campus por- nography issue,. took time out of their busy schedules and showed up at this meeting to express their concerns. Shouldn't the members of the Student Forum be mm·e in- terested with the concerns of the students they rept!esent than with whether or not they will be able to get home a few minutes earlier? I think that they should. Chuck Pollard '85 _,

CONCORDII:'NSIS. February 16, 1984 Page 11 From Health Services To the Editor: H.S.V. is not simple. Herpes is a viral disease of two types that have been around since an- tiquity. Type I usually causes infections above the waist and Type II is usually responsible for infections below the waist. Only a laboratory test, such as a tissue culture, can distinguish the type. H.S.V. is also a disease with no kneWN cure that is subject to recurrences and remissions that are unpredictable. One out of three never have more than the initial episode while two out of three will be plagued by recurrences. What exactly reactivates the dormant virus is unknown by physical or psy- chological stress is highly likely. Guesstimates claim 20 million genital herpes sufferers in the U.S. alone. Genital herpes is a sexually transmitted disease, but since it is not in a reportable disease category, prevention of this common disease depends upon personal knowledge. The virus spreads wllen mucous membrane, any break in the skin or the genitalia comes in direct contact with the virus on a living host. The blisters and their drainage contain many, many viruses but they requre moisture, body warmth and darkness to sur- vive. Therefore, spread by non- living objects is highly suspect. Since some conditions can simulate a living host, certain general precautions should always be practiced in dor- mitory living. Use yeur own wash cloth and towel, use your own toothbrush, do not share food or eating utensils. Also, do not rely upon the condom to prevent direct contact because the virus is much smaller than the condom's pores and wiU easily pass threugh. The Health Services Dog Laws Cause Concern To the Editor: Being dog lovers, students and concerned individuals, we are appalled by the actions being taken by this school's administration with regard te dog restraint. Dogs have been members of our community at the college since 1795 (without paying tuition! ) . Like humans, dogs too have character. In recent history a noted canine friend of the community was Monty; he even made it to the cover of Concordiensis. Throughout the, course of the day, such creatures as Monty give the passerby something to laugll or talk about (free of charge). A good example of this would be their role as harbingers of spring. Dogs facilitate a welcoine break from our everyday routine of rigorous studies and sometimes monotonous life here at the college. With regard to the behavior of dogs, most dogs I know behave better and more maturely than some of the illustrious students attending Union, and for this reason they set a good example. How many dogs do you know that go out on drunken binges or destroy campus property? Should such members of the student body be forced to wear leashes and be locked in cages at night? Dogs don't vandalize security vehicles, they do however fertilize the grounds. Their debris fertilizes, our debris just litters the campus. If our dogs are no longer permitted to bound through Union grounds, then you might as well do away with the brook. Respectfully submitted, John Carl and Lee Aaron A Committee and It's Customers To the Editor: Social Committee: \Tonight our specialty is Filet Mignon with sauted mushrooms and ... ., Union Students: \I'm a vegetarian . . . \ Social Committee: \Well we have fabulous fillet of sole with lemon and . . . \ Union Students: \I said, I'm a COMPLETE vegetarian!\ Social Committee: \Oh. . well, we have scrumptious egg dishes, like our quiche with . . \ Union Students: ''I'm allergic to eggs!\ Social Committee: \I'm sorry, I just don't know what I can possibly serve you?\ Union Student: \Me neither .. . I guess I'm just not hungry . . · \ The social committee is ob- viously not a waiter or waitress, nor are Union students its customers ... but the message is clear ... What more can the social committee do? Whatever they do, they are just not getting a positive response. First there was Rafters and then there was Fantasies ... two great op- portunities for fun, but people just don't go. And, even if some do show up, they come with an attitude like, \I'll try it for about an hour and then go home.\ Union students com- plain and grumble about the social life here ... but it's their apathetic attitude to blame and unfortunately \apathy\ is contagious. If this \apathy\ does not stop catching, soon everyone will lose their ap- petite! by a Non-Social Committee Member Efforts Applauded To the Editor: I would like to applaud the efforts of the Newman Club, Women's Network, and the Christian Fellowship for trying to convince the student forum Monday night to ban por- nographic films on campus. I am not against the showing of such fihns on campus. I did not go to \Wanda Whips Wall Street\ yet I do think that as long as there are enough people in the college who do enjoy seeing such films, such a money-making movie should not be censored. I am proud of the three organizations, he wever, for having the courage and in· tegrity to come up before the forum to voice their beliefs and concerns. Too many people on this campus are either too apathetic or too intimidated to try to get things changed. The student forum is very often quite intimidating. I hope the three groups will not be too discouraged by the forwn's decision to speak up again the next time they feel concerned. A female student In Support of A Civil Liberty To the Editor: In the last week's issue of Concordiensis there were three letters to the editor expressing disapproval of the showing of pornographic movies on campus. The arguments in support ot those letters were religious, or they had to do with the status of the women in our society. The three groups who initiated the aforementioned letters, however, did not want to limit themselves to just ex- pressing their negative opinions in accordance with the showing of pornograhic movies. On the Student Forum meeting of February 13, representatives of the Women's Network, The Newman Club and the Catholic Club appeared in front of the Student Forum in an attempt to completely prohibit the showing of such movies on campus. In our opinion, trying to impose one's religious and extremist points of view on a whole college community is to go too far into the aforemen- tioned issue. We do understand the concerns of the above mentioned groups, however we do not believe that under any circumstances whatsoever should the three clubs abolish rights provided by the First Amendment of the American Constitution, among which is the fundamental right of freedom of speech and ex- pression. Furthermore we do not believe that the clubs have the necessary power to override decisions of the Supreme Court of the US which support the showing of pornographic movies. Banning the showing of such movies will be a dangerous precedent on this campus and the freedom of the students as a whole may find itself in jeopardy as a reslt of this precedent. Therefore we would like to praise the fihn corn-. rnittee who, by bringing such movies to the campus, helps preserve the freedom of ex- pression, speech and choice, provided for by the Con- stitution. JacquesSimon and Todd Lewis .. LET'TERS From An Alum To the Editor: I overheard a conversation the other day that encouraged and distressed me. It was en- couraging to hear the issue of screening X-rated movies being discussed, but discouraging, in that both \sides\ seemed to miss the point. Arg.l: No similar outcry was raised over excessively violent movies, why the protest over sexually violent movies? Isn't it practically the same thing? In a democratic society, such movies are allowed to be screened. Protest does little to alter the situation, on campus or in the larger society, so why bother? Arg. 2: Pornographic films cater to and unleash violent, anti-woman emotions in the viewer which can result in in- creased violence to and harassment of women on campus. Until the viewers are able to control their reactians and behave as responsible citizens, such movies should not be shown. This defense (Arg. 2) was offered almost apologetically and both parties seemed wary of offending each other. This is not unduly surprising-sexual politics is a risky business when the \opponents\ lives are often so intertwined. Pornography is a manifestation of sexism: the reduction of female human beings to less than human, no more than the sum of their sexual parts, just as RACISM defines groups of hwnan beings by their skin color or religious belief. Pornography is sexist propaganda. If a screening of violently anti-semitic, Nazi propaganda were suggested, or racist KuKlux Klan films, the outcry would be deafening, the protest widespread and un- criticized. Yet, women who protest such a depiction of themselves are made to feel unjustified, humorless, and sometimes \suspected\ of being (gasp) \rabid manhating lesbians!\ (Another example of prejudice.) The predominantly male audiences who view these films are indW.ged-it is a \night out with the boys.\ It is ac- ceptable entertainment for women to be portrayed ')nfilm as whores at heart,sexual animals, sexual objects, at the disposal and the cornmaRd of men. Is it any wonder, in a society that produces such films, in a community that tolerates their screening, that violence agamst women in \real life\ exists? If women are degraded in a movie, all women are equally susceptible to such definitions. And, if women are thus defined, how in turn does this define men? Women are dehumanized py pornographic films, so too, are those who watch the films. If one group in society is discriminated against, brutalized, no one remains immune. By protesting these movies, women are rejecting the sexist definitions of women by men. Pornography is not solely a women's issue; when a society, by its silence, supports the degradation and dehumanization of one group in society at what point will protest begin? Ann E.B. Foster '82 Opinions Criticized To the Editor: It is my understanding that there was a small and relatively localized amount of dissatisfaction with the Tuesday showing of ''Wanda Whips Wall Street.\ And, although the impetus was small, it was still an important contingency that related to the college community as a whole. Due to the fact that I was unable to attend the feature, I was unable to pass judgement on the quality of the \en- tertainment\ presented, or the amount of \social redemption\ which it provided. Unfor- tunately though, I believe that this was also the case for those who so ardently opposed the showing of the movie. Per- sonally, I feel that these \righteous citizens\ of our community had no right to complain about the film without seeing it. To pre-judge is prejudice. What were these people op- posed to? The X-rating? I was told that these people were raising objections to the use of student funds to acquire the film. So where was the \Moral Majority\ when \Dirty Harry\ was shown? Is violence not obscenity in its worst form? Apparently, the rest of the students had no objection to the use of student funds for the attaining of the film because both of the late shows were sold out hours in advance; and how often does this happen? My dear friends, once you begin to limit the right of others to choose what they wish to see ot buy, you begin the slow but sure road to the suppression of the individual. If we, as in- telligent human beings, don't realize this, we'll soon be back in the dark ages. Sincerely, Kyle Siegel Classof'87 View of the Forum To the Editor: Having attended the Student Fortun meeting of February 13, I would like to extend my ap- preciation to the majority of the members of the Student Forum for their professional conduct in dealing wi~h the discussion on campus pornography. I was, however, disappointed with the conduct of a few of the Forum members. These members did not seem concerned with the issue at. hand. They were, in- stead, more concerned with the fact that the discussion might last until after 11:00 p.m., forcing them to stay a few extra minutes. It was this attitude that prompted me to write this letter. The Student Forwn members are elected to serve the students that elected them. Many of these students, representing both sides of the campus por- nography issue, took time out of their busy schedules and showed up at this meeting to express their concerns. Shouldn't the members of the Student Forum be more in- terested with the concerns of the students they represent than with whether or not they will be able to get home a few minutes earlier? I think that they should. Chuck Pollard '85 -- ..

Page I! CO:'VCORIHF.\'.\'1.\~ Fchruu1y /fJ; 19/U THE DEPARTMENT UF THE ARTS . . . PRE.SENTS B y V81. SHAKESPEARE FEB .. 24, 25, 28, 29,. MAR. 1- 3 B=Q.Opm. NOTT MEMORIAL THEATR·E b o x off i c e o p e n . F E B,. · 2 0 370-6153 ~ Totb A$. ·Film re$.pol work, and t ding Wand: · pro()O: banne orga11 reque: impos Whi co~ nogra Totb As: to th~ veterc Colle~ more to tb group showi moviE Street The WomE film sexut destrt Toth; what to do entire you'll used choic1 ASSU1 organ other seen11 take pomo has prov~ fema nogra to di~ To th Altl never moVit of th Base~ .........__ To tl: In 1 to bE tions modE that t .abou caust clivid eludE or de effec freed whic! COOCI socie addr· nogr: At pare1 that not l cam: nons· Polil crim seen in tt nogr cam1 piled exce So, movi fu()SI

CONCORDIENSlS, Februar)' 16, 1984 Poge ~3 t ' \ • ''. • .LETTERS .. Co-Cb.persons Speak O-ut ATTENTION To the. Editor: As . C(rehairpersons of th~ · Film Committee we Wish to .respond. to the Women's Net- work, the Ch.ristianFellowShip and the Newman Club regar- ding last week's showing of Wanda Whips Wall Street In · proPOSing that_x-rated films be banned from campus, these organizations are, in fact, requesting that censorsmp. be· im}>Osed at Union. College. While it is the right of these coJIU11ittees. to condemn por- nography, It is not their right .to attempt to prohibit others from viewing it.· We recognize that many ·find ~rnograpny offensive. These people should simply 11ot attend the movie. . Some may .argue ·that por- nography is degrading and · instills unbelll.thful ideas in people. The same can be said for T_. Driver., ·a -film which inspired an assassination at- tempt on the President of the United States. Indeed, one coUld argue tbat Monty Pytlaon's The Mepoing of · IJfe is ()ffensive and should be banned. Where does one draw the line? It is not the responsib~ty of a college filiil committee to make .such a pers()nal decision. Those· w:ho oppose por- nography can not justify im· posing their social, mDral and religious values on the entire campus community. A college campus is the last place where censorship should be :shown, Sarah McMahon & Andrew Rosen Co-Chairpersons· lJnion College Film Committee -PHOTO·GRAP.H E RS! There will .be an organizational .Meeting for all those .interested in working on the photogrqphic sub· committee of the FRESHMAN RECORD Faculty and administrative depts. will be photographed as well.as ger~eral student life From A Forum Member Monday, Feb. 20 • 4:30p.m. Strauss Lounge • Carn•gie To the J!;ditor: As an elected representative to the Student Forum and a veteran member of the Union College Film Committee, I -feel more than quali,fied to respond to the motley assortment of groups tnat protested the recent showing of th¢ pornographic movie ('Wanda Whips Wall Street.\ · The main .complaints of the Women's Network are that the film ''exploits human sexuality'' and ''reinforces destructive sexual attitudes.\ To that first point, I reply that what individuals freely choose to do with their own bodies is entirely up to them. I'm sure yoU'll find .thiS .same argument used by those advocatilig pro- choice on the issue of abortion. Assuming that is your - organ~ation~s stand on· this other controversial issue, it seems incongruous of you to take such a stand against por.nographicfilms~ Secondly, it has been psychologically proven that males · (-and females) who view por- nographic films are less likely to display sexually destructive behavior than those who have not seen them. This is obviously because . such movies release sexual tension. It is when such open sexuality is kept bottled up that the most destructive behavior actuany occurs. Of aU the X\rated movies shown' during mY three-year tenure on the fillil committee, there has yet to .be one negative sexually related incident resulting from the showing of the films. As for the Newman Club, its criticisms concern the use of student activities fees to obtain such pornography and the dj,splayrnent of \abuse of the body without consideration of the'individual!' As for the first point1 such fihns make -so much money that they help to offset the cost of higher quality films-which tend to be more expensive and not as ·heavily patronized. by the campus community. In regard to · the second point, once again it is a question of being_ allowed to maintain freedom over one's own body-so long as no one else is_ being hurt. Although such behavior may be offensive to some people, I chanenge any All Are Welcome of them to open their doors to . public scrutiny oftheir bebavior : patterns-24 hours a day, 7 days t · a week. Such is the type of L--------------------__. society envisioned by George r=••••••••••••••••••••• Orwell's 1984. 1 · I In response to the Christian I The Social Committee is actively Fellowship, I ask the members I so·l ic iting members to plan, only to examine the arguments I have made above. I organize~ and -coordinate the Finally; let me say that this I events of ca·m·p Un ·,on. w·.tho.ut letter is not written with the 1 intent that members from the I more student participation, the above organizations will soon . run out to the nearest por· 1 chances are very high that an nographic movie, but rather I admission will be CHARGED for that they will be t()lerant of I change.Fortoolongsocietyhas I the traditionally free event. If r~pressec:l sexually explicit • books., magazines, and films. I I n t e r e s t e d I a t t e n d t h e The reswt of such exc.essive 1 organizational meeting today, censorship is the ·country we I have today where rapes and I February 16, at 7:30 in the fourth other types of sexual assaults f 1 1 · C · II occur with disgusting I . oor ounge In arnegle, or ca £requency.Itshouldbeobvioll8 1 Peter Holmes {381-4559) or Mark to all but the most closed· mmded'individuals tnat'this is , I Keller (370-2510). 1 the wrong path to take and one .. •••••••--••••••••••• .. that will only yield more of the same problems that our society · has had to tolerate since the beginning of civilization. · Matt Nankin Box 54 The Committee on Committees Censorship More Serious (Co~) To the Editor: Although we personally would never go to see a pornographic ' movie, -we support the showing of these movies on campus. Based uponthe large turn-out at these movies, a large portion of the college commWlity is in- terested in seeing pornographic movies. If the opinions of a few people can influence what the entire student. body can see ·at our campus movies, t~en this is censorship. Censorship would b.e a far more serious problem than the occasional showing of an X-rated movie.' Julie Stone Mary Carroll ·A Modest Pornography Proposal To the EQitor: In today's society, there seem to be more and more r~stric­ tions bei~g placed on the modern individual. It seems that every other day, one hears about another food which causes cancer. And, if an in- dividual chooses, be may ex- clude this food from his diet in order to avoid detrimental effects on hiS body. With this freedom of choice in mind, which is one of the fWldamental concepts which our democratic society iS based upon, l will now address the question of por- nography on campus. At this time, there is an ap- parent onslaught of criticism that pornographic fUms should not tie presented ort campus. I cannot imagine the utter nonsense of such a movement. Pol'llography is not an in• criminating element. It can be seen all over carp.pus, not only in the cinema. If all the por· nographic materials present on campus were confiscated and piled up, they would surely exceed the height of tbe Nott. So, the mere . exclusion , of movies woUld haye only the most insiiplificant effect on campus pornography. Why do I propose such an argument? The practical rea:sons are obvious. The film conunittee · has evidence that. the films in question are aiilount.t!Je largest grossing films. 'This fact proves that the majority approves of such films. In my opinion, I see nothing wrong with the idea of shOwing one x-rated movie a tenn. But, I would n()t suggest showing more tllan that amount, for the novelty of the films will die out otherwise. The novelty element can be cited as another reason for showing these films. Just from the psychological point of view, there is redee:anfng value. It is a healthy, non-violent means for freeipg an individulll of stress. In all the shoWings of these films, there · have been no reported incidents of violence. Freud .stated that the two elements of .sex and agression play the most important roles in our miqds. In VIewing \Wanda Whips Wall Street,\ the com- bination of these elements can be seen as healthy stimulants for mental activity and are a · good outlet. I cannot .say. much Jor .~ person who .s!:ates that he or she wishes to rid the campus of pornography, but will go to see films stfch as \Dirty Harry.\ Which i:s worse, vulgarized love-making or graphic murder? In addition to this, there is value inthese films for psychology majors as a learning aid. Who needs to read only books on deviant behavior, when you can see it on the screen in living color? For these reasons, I see no hami in showing ·porn()graphic films on campus. In conclusiont I would like to make a proposal for the com- mittee and persons who wish to ban such films. The majority of the student population is. in f~\ror of se~~g pornographic films. You nught have a better chance of mak;ing a dent in the Nott by knocking your head against it a few thousand times than ridding the campus of pornography. As I wrote before, assert your freedom of choice by not going to see these movies •. But, it is not irl your power to prevent tl)ose who choose to go from enjoying thell1Sel'ves. · Sc()tt Elkind PrQ.>Pomography Commission Is now accepting ap· plications to fill the vacancy of the traffic and pet court committee chairman. Applications are available in the · Student Activities office and are due Thursday, February 23rd. WRUC TRIVIA It is back and better than before! The action all sta.rts this Sunday night at 8 p.m. when the first 100 trivia questions will be asked over the air. It is more challenging than last year, and we have many more valuable prizes to give away. So, tune in for all the fun and ex· citement on the 19th and 26th of February, as well as for our final round on the 4th of March! - tF .. -

Pu;w I.J CO.\'( 'ORI)IFS.\'IS, Fehnuu:r I fl. 19/U THE~ARTS 1/) L C]) .0 w c ro .c 0 ..., >- .0 0 .,_ 0 .c 0.. The Paul Taylor Dance Foundation with Christopher Gillis, Kate Johnson and Davis Parsons. · . . Get the Da:nce Fever By MARK WASSERMAN The Paul Taylor Dance Company performed at Proctors this past Friday and Saturday nights. As I am not a modern dance enthUsiast, I ~ntered the theatre with mixed emotions of whether I was going to understand the performance, let alone enjoy it. I was happily .surprised to find the show much more .enjoyable than my ex- pectations would permit. Paul Taylor has been an outstanding and original force in dance for over two decades, with the 1983-84season marking the 29th Anniversary of The Paul Taylor Dance Company. His performances are lrnown for their infectious energy and vitality, with Friday's show being no exception, and through his many years of experience, he has gained a large following and has received an impressive array of awards · and praise, including the election to knighthood by the French government in 1969. It is difficult to explain Paul Taylor's style. Although classified in the modern dance generation, he really doesn't fit within the botmdaries of a classificfition such as this. His extensive use of costumes, music, sets, and especially lighting helps create a :mood and helps tell a story that would be more difficult to accomplish on the bare stage of a traditionally modern dance performance, as well as makes the show move enjoyable for a dance layman. Friday's performance ,con~ sisted of three separate dances, all with very different sets, c<,>stum.es, and iitl.ages. The first of the three was entitled ''Arden Court,'' and employed the least extravagant props and costumery ofthe evening, as the scantily dad dancers went about a series of intricate and precise leaps and moves. The number of dancers on stage ranged from two to Hine at a time, ·with all doing different things, yet with. · all. the movements looking like a logical progr~ssion. modern forms. It was the lightest part of the evenings performance, as well' as the most easily understood, as opposed to , the dreariness of \Nightshade and the audience exhausting .leaps. and bounds of \Arden Court.'' Overall, The Paul Taylor Dance Company left a lasting impression. Through his use of costumes and lighting, and through his easily understood' story lines, he changed my opinion of modern dance fro:ru one 6f a disinterested viewer, to that of an avid fan. So, don ~t miss the Paul Taylor Dance Company if you have the op. portu:nity to attend a per· formance. You wilt thank me for the suggestion. · · · Master Class By SUSAN COllEN The Stage with T.D. The second portion of~ the performance entitled ''Nightshade\ portrayed the struggle between g~od and evil in an early 1900's setting. Through the use of mood lighting, cost~es, and masks, it· was easy to understand the contrasting elements being portrayed, and left the viewer with an eerie yet contented feeling that good once again triumphed over evil. Last Saturday, February 11th one of Paul Taylor's senior dancers, Thomas Evert, gave Union students and others .a \masterclass.\ The class was one and a half hours of _pure excitement and fun. Thomas Evert slowly warmed the class up with mixture of ''t~ical\ modem dance stretches and some ·unique ''Taylor specific\' exercises. Following the warm- up, Mr. Evert taught the class some challenging. ''Taylor,' moves and jumps. Everyone who participated in the class thoroughly enjoyed tasting the unique style of Paul Taylor. The Union Dance Club will continae to watch out for dance com- panies corriing to Proctors so Union dancers can again ex:- perience a class taught by professional dancers. By TOD DIMMICK 'The Glens Falls Civic Center is, surprisingly, a pretty good place for a concert. Once a person forgets that the stage is on one end of a Hockey rink, he is all set. With a capacity of ab()ut 5000, the place was packed and people were standing around the edge who couldn't get seats to see Huey Lewis and the News and .38 Special. Huey Lewis, I am convinced, is on his way to becoming a star. His songs are original, the lyrics catchy and his char.isma affects the whole audience. Totally at ease on stage, I think the people, who were mostly .38 Special fans, were surprised by ho-w good he was. Having done a little research at the WRUC library, I had some idea of what kind of music he had in store for us. If all people knew were his most popular songs and MTV videos, they may have been surprised by what he has to offer. Opening with a steady booming that turned into \Heart of Rock and Roll,'' he then went through a couple of his older songs. Although I did not know some of them, I im- mediately liked the energetic beat and the crisp, easily un- derstood 'lyrics that are characteristic of his songs. Through the words, a clear message can . be heard and appreciated; \Walking the Thin line,\ for example, gives an account of experiences after corning back from what must be Vietnam. It has an underlying seriousness that makes one listen. \Do you believe in love,\ an older hitj was as vibrant as ever, and by this point the audience had recovered from their surprise about this guy and were on their feet clapping. Whenever Huey Lewis and the News played anything from their newest album, the crowd went wild. For an encore, Huey had the crowd begging him to pla:Y''I want a new drug.\ When he looked bored and said \naah the crowd almost booed him out of the place, they played it anyways. I was sorcy.\\' to see him leave, and more than a little surprised that he had to open for someone else, especially someone like .38 Special. After Huey Lewis and the News, .38 Special was a let- down. Someday I will un- derstand why people insist that cacophony like that is actually music. I like some of their music from recordings; here they had a few problems. They must have been trying to feed our primal need for noise and violence, so I guess they had a purpose, but that purpose doesn't include someone who wants to listen to MUSIC. With two drum sets, and electric guitars that must have been amplified too much, it was rare to be able to understand a word that they sang. A short, pudgy guy with a cowboy hat ran around the stage, fluttering his hands at the audience as though beseeching them to give him some skill. I am not sure what his function was. The per· petually jamming guitars made it difficult to detect the actual tune. It was good to see the guitarists bopping back and forth to their music. At least they knew what it was. The best part of their show was probably the lasers with some neat special effects. Unfortunately, good lights. don't help the quality of the music. The redemming quality of .38 Special must be their boundless energy. Energy, however, does not always preclude skill. My overall impression of the concert was good, because I am still thinking about how good Huey Lewis and the News was. If ever you get the chance, go ~see them. He puts on a really good show, one that might make up for the mediocre one that follows. The final dance of the evening entitled \Sunset was in my opinion, the most enjoyable of the three. Through the use of costumes and scenery, the theatre took on a very \Paris in springtime\ feel, as the dancers went about a courtship scene that .employed both ballet and .,;JSJttr (I~ : -~~ WRlJC t, • 8 9 , 1 .f M • S T £ R E 0 Trivial Pursuit By ERIC LIPMAN On what deck of the U.S.S. Enterprise are Captain Kirk's living quarters on? If deck five, the correct answer, im- mediately comes · to mind-or even if it didn't-you are in for a treat when WRUC's annual Trivia contest 'begins this Sunday at eight o'clock. I'm a Nightowl Honey. For both the novice, and the Trivial Pursuit veteran alike, WRUC trivia has proved in year's past to be both afun and challenging way · to spend Sunday evenings. Even at its most fundamental level, trivia proves to each Qne of us the old maxim that two (or more) heads are better than one-as people crowd into the hall with. their · telet>l:lones . pooling their efforts to answer questions. Appearing at the Union College Rathskellar on Saturday, February 18, are the Nightowls. A trio of talented local musicians, they perform a unique blend of blues, country rock, and music of the 50's and 60's. The Nightowls are: Mark Davenport, guitar and vocals; Rob Aronstein, piano and vocals; Dave Kavanaugh, drums and background vocals. Each member is an ac- complished professional musician who has performed_ extensively in the Capital District. Lead vocalist and gUitarist Mark Davenport hails from Chicago, where he has backed up such blues greats as Buddy Guy and Junior Wells, and opened concerts for Mitch Ryder and Wilson Pickett. Locally he has performed solo and as a member of the Charlie Smith Blues Band opened a Sam and Dave show at JB Scotts. Mark lists among his per- forming strengths an extensive repertoire of Beatles, country rock, and blues. . Pianist Rob Aronstein. has been performing locally for the past · three years. ·Of major influence in his style are Jerry Lee Lewis, Champion Jack Dupree, and Billy JoeL The classically trained player has ~a strong background in ragtime, boogie woogie, and 50's rock and roll. Rob has performed solo in many local clubs as well as with various other artists. With drummer Dave Kavanaugn he appeared on the Cerebral ,Palsey TelethOn performing original material. Mr. Kavanaugh has played for the past few years with show groups su<tl as New Day and Motion. He has also performed with the Colby Sno Review, who played the R,at last Thursday night. Mr. Kavanaugh plays a number of percus$ion in- struments besides the drums and brings a unique style and approach to drumming to the Nightowls. The Nightow:ls display unusual versatility, playing music ranging from Sinatra to Genesis, . With Beatles, Eagles, Allman Bros., and Buddy Holly in between. For a night of hot Rock and Rhythm and Blues check out Mark, Rob, and Dave at the Union College Rathskellar this Saturday night. What has been improved upon over the last year is. that the number. of individual prizes given directly to callers with correct answers has been ex~ panded, in addition to the points awarded the various teams toward the Grand Ptiz;e. So, from record albums to Champange brunchs•f()r-two at the Holiday Inn, WRUC Triv:ia h~s a lot to offer every member of the campus comm1111i.ty! Yet, those at WRUC will not be the only ones as]png all the questions, we think that there is an i.Jh.portant one you should ask of yourself: Am I going to play WRUC Triyia over the next three Sunday's and be able to get some of the prizes for myself? Good question. - - hll · tr1 Sl ta GJ Sl m wl in1 te st1 . re pi.J ffil th VE pi pr sn c v f 0 e p } l\ d 1: v t [ c F~ di: U1 fE pt. dil dr se ar re .Pr th cl M so su or ill st ta fr E

CONCORDIEN.\'15: Fehrual'y 16, 1984 PagelS THE ARTS I Another Enioyabl:e ~ve·ning By ARTS STAFF Last Thursday evening, a half•full Cabaret audience was ·treated to some· of Union and SUNY Albany's · best vocal talent. Once again Judy-Betn Greene. and her friends from SUNY brought some real good music to Cabaret. It was M.c. Jaques Simon who started things off with an interesting· and humorous in- terpretation of some stereotypical New York City . residents, such as the Cop, the pimp, the hooker and the gang member. Jaques then handed the stage over to Cabaret veteran Judy-Beth and her pianist Rich Putordi, wno proceeded to captivate the small crowd with some inspired At the end of the eighteenth century, the nation's capital, Washington, was a new city in formation offering a fresh opportunity to creat~ an ideal environment. From L'Enfant's plan through the efforts of American architect Robert Mills hi the 1830's and 1840's to design appropriate public buildings, the creation of Washington can be examined in the context of the utopian movement on the American continent. Pamela Scott. adjunct vocals. They opened, with Judy- Beth singing a new Stevie Nicks tune and followed with duets on \How Do We Keep the Music Playing\ and \Never Gonna Let You Go.'' Judy-Beth then did two songs by Quarterflash and two songs. by Stevie Nicks (to whom her voice bears a striking resemblance at times.) At the urging of the audience, the duo came out f()r an encore; which .was perhaps the best song of the first act. They did ''I Never Knew Love Before (then came you),\ the timing; the emotions and the. feelings were perfect. If they are ever· back, I would urge students to come out and see them, it is a very per- fect and e11tertaining act, After the break Rich came back on stage with ·two of his friends from SUNY: BiH Professor of Art for the Union ·College . program in Washington, D.C., and teacher at the Cornell School of Architecture, will examine the architectural development of Washington in a Jaffe lecture at Union College's Arts Building, room 202 at 4:30 PM, on February 22, Wednesday, Washington's Birthday. Her lecture is entitled: THE IDEAL CITY OF WASHINGTON. The public is cordially invited to attend. For Viewing Pleasure A variety of exhibits will be on display .in the Arts Building at Union College through March 8, featuring drawings, photographs and three- dimensional design. One exhibit is a collection of drawings and .photographs by senior Arelis Santiago; a studio arts mai or. The work represents her senior project. A second exhibition com- . prises student wQrk drawn from the Three Dimensional Design classes taught by Prof. Alex Markoff. The selections reflect solutions to problems of joining, supporting, constructing and organizing elements in space · using limited materials, such as stones, sticks, string, wire and tape. Also on view are photographs from the portfolio of Elliott Erwitt. donated to Union by alumnus Edward Shapiro, Class of '62. Erwitt worked as a sta£f photographer under Roy E. Stryker for Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and Pittsburgh Photo Library and has been a member of Magnmn ·Phot()s in New York and Paris since 1953. He was president of Magnum, New York in 1966. His work . is. included in. J...he collections of the Museum of Modern Art, New York; Smithsonian· In'stitute, Washington, D.C.; Art Institute of Chicago;· New Orleans Museum of Art; Bibliotheque National, Paris. The exhibits will be open to the public Mondays and Thursdays, 1 to 4 p.m.; Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday, 1 to 2:30 p.m., or by appointment. CABARET: presents: Jim Havard &. Gary Siskind w /his band Thursday 'Night Shows at 8:45 .& lO :45· Harrison and Barbara Barrey. Bill did some solo work on guitar, singing the Eagles \Lyon Eyes,\ \Laura'' from Christopher Cross and Elton John's \Your Song.\ He then teamed up with Rich for an Everly Bros. medley, which included \Wake Up Little Susie;' and ''Bye Bye Love.\ After a few more songs from Barbara and Rich, the three ended with the classic by the Andrew Sisters \Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy.\ The crowd then proceeded to drag Judy-Beth out of the crowd for one more song. She did \Mercedes Benz\ with a couple of her own. verses thrown in for good measure. All in all it was another en- joyable evening of Cabaret and cbances are, you missed it . Judy-Beth G.reene singing a Stevie Nicks tune at Cabaret Pianos In Tune ByARTSSTAFF On last Wednesday at 7:45 in the Arts Building, three Union students got a chance to share the talents that they have been developing and nurturing, in a student piano recital. The three students, Marlene Waldman, Janice Thompson .and Jill Bercow are all involved in the music practicum programs here at Union, in wl}icn they take lessons for a period of three terms in order to achieve credits. But do not let that fact throw you, because these three are not in it for the credits and are by no means beginners. Marlene Waldman started off the program with a very pretty performance of some pieces by Haydn, among them, ''Sonata in C major, Hob. XVI No. 35.\ She was followed by Janice Thompson who did two pieces. The first. was Debussy's \Arabeske No. 1\ and the second was Bach's \Chromatic Fantasie in D minor,\ BMV 903.\ Jill Bercow then roWlded out the performance with some Bach and some Beethhoven, finishing with \Sonata Op, 31. No. 2 in D Minor.\ It is something special to see members of the. college ap- plying their , talents and what they have learned in per- formances and hopefully it will encourage more students to get involved whether it be in the music practicums or by just coming out to see the per- evening for all those who were formances. It was a very nice - involved. Janice Thompson performing at a piano recital. We Want You On Campus Dutch Hollow . Fri., feb. 17 Tonight and every Thursday night Live DJ spinnin.g great tunes CJ p.m.-1 a.m. Thurs., Feb. 23 CharHe- T and the Grads 11 live Band\ Come Prepared To Dance! A Night of Prizes and Fun Sponsored by Myers Rum (Seagrams> tee shirts • ski hats • beach ba lis *no alcoholic purchase necessary Thurs., Feb. 28 lilive Band\ Fabulou~ Heavyweights Sponsored by Concert Committee & Miller Brewing Co. You Make The Night Special! ·we will honor competitors\ ads at the Pub Bring in an ad tor anoiherestabiishment (Or match them a'S best We Give it to the ma11ager on duty 9-ll :30 any nl.ght and start the speciell for the night! · : We will not honor any • . veaway\ ads

/ Page /(, ( '()/\'( '()Rf)f/:'.'\'.\'1.\~ fchrmu:y /6, 198J SCHOLARSHIPS The Auxiliary to the American ~steopa th ic Association IS offer.ing scholarships for the study of · osteopathic medicine. Eligibility is based on both high scholastic standing and financial need. More in· formation and applications are awilable in the Financial A.id Onice. The Electrical Women's Round Table, Inc., ·offers a $2,000 annual foUowship to a woman studying for a career in a field related to electrical energy. The award is based on both scholarship and need•. More information and ap- plications are available in the Financial Aid Office. The President's Committee on Mental Retardation is of- fering a $5,000 scholarship for advanced study in the field .of mental retardation. To be eligible you. must have a :to GPA, show financial need, and be able to prove your par- ticipation in volunteer activities with mentally retarded persons. More information and ap- plications are a:vailable in the Financial Aid Office. Bell Laboratories offers fellowships and grants to women entering a doctoral program in a science or engineering field. Mor-e in- formation and applications are available in the FinanCial .Aid· Office. .. The Rotary- Foundation .of Rotary International is offer-ing an exciting array of scholar~l:lips to use for study abroad at all levels of education. Generally, tuition, room and board are paid by the Rotary Foundation. For more information, stop by the Financial Aid Office. ·- The Financial Aid Office bas information on scholarship assistance to minority students in the graduate study of business, engineering, la'W and political science. SPEAKERS· February 22: Women's · Lunchtime Colloquium Series...,- What We as Women in the Developed World Can Learn from Women in the DevelQping World, speaker--Ma rtba Huggins, Assistant Professor of Sociology, Union. College, sponsored by The President's c( nu lis: ion or the ')tat us of Women at Union College. Wednesday, 12:30 p.m., Banquet Room, Carnegie Hall, Union College. Bring bag lunch• -coffee and tea provided. For more information call 370-6288, February 22: \A Feminist Analysis of Bu-reaucracy,\ speaker--Kathy Ferguson, Political Science Dept., Siena College. Sponsored by Women's Studies Program SUNYA, Research on Women Colloquium, Wednesday, 12:15- 1:30 p.m., Humanities Lounge, SUNY at Albany. February 23: Friendships, speaker--Janet Roehr. Spon- sored by Evening Branch of Women's Alliance of the Unitarian Church, 1221 Wendell Avenue. Thursday, 6:15 p.m. Dinner and Program $4.50; Program only $1.00 (7:45). Call Jeanne Doceur, 370-3902 for more information including child care. Pamela Scott, adjunct professor of art for Union College.'s Washington, D.C., terms and teacher at the Cor- nell School of Architecture, will examine the architectural development of the nation's capital in a J a£fe lecture at Union College Wednesday, Feb. 22, Washington's birthday. The talk begins at 4:30 p.m. in Arts Building, Room 202 and is open to the public. A series of discussions of foreign policy issues titled \Great Decisions '84\ continues at Union College and the Schenectady Public Library, PERSONALS & CLASSIFIED A.DS Must be typed and submitted to the Concordy offic.e or Box 2JJ77 by 5 p.rn, Tuesday. Fotms are avanable at the Box Office Union College Concert Committee ·Presents Echo and the Bunnymen with Let's Active phJs sp~cial guest March 29 * 8 p.m. A l.urnn i Gy.m Tickets $5 atthe box office with this week's topic as \U.S. Security and World Peace - · Allies, Arms and- DiplQrnacy.'' The talk will be held ln two locations: Union College Wednesday, Feb. 15, at 7:30 p.m. in Strauss Lounge, Car- negie HaU; and Schenectady County Public Library, Tuesday, Feb. 21, at ·10 a.m. Books which contain background information on the talks from the Foreign PoUcy Association are available for $6 at the meetings or at the Jewish Community Center, the Senior Citizens Center, or through Prof. Bill Martin or student Barry Tils at Union. ·cAMPUS.NEWS J .S. U. presents Rabbi Beverly Magidson--the ftrst woman conservative Rabbi in the world--speaking on her experiences. Rabbi Magidson. will be speaking at 7:30 p.m. in the S.S. Lounge (2nd floor), on Mon., Feb. 20. FINANCIAL .AID Financial Aid ap.pli.cations : are now availaole for 1984415. Please pick up yo.urs at financial aid office ill B.ecker llall. (Remember you must ' reapply every year.) Fi\F'$ . must he. mailed by March 1 so that all forms are received. by · Very outgoing individual to work hard, earn extra .income, e~cellent ·potential. Call: Rick DeLeon at 370-7025. Sales Assistant to sales manager of Medical Elecw tronies firm with projects in marketing . electrocardiQgra- phs. Must have two years college, excellent writing skill~, good verbal skills, some typing. Send resume and salary requirements to: MEDICAL SYSTEMS COitP., 239 GREAT NECK -ROAD, GREAT NECK, NY 11021. . Orlando Patterson, Author of Slavery and Social Death, will give a lecture that e~plores the enduring meaning of slavery in Career Workshops and ''The Meaning of Slavery in Programs: Corporate Cultures, the April15 deadline. Ameri·can History ·and Thurs., Feb. 16,7 p.m.f Sfrauss. Culture~·· February 21, 1984, at C(lllege students expecting to Resume Preparation, Wed., . 8:00p.m. in Strauss Lounge. need financial aid or summer Feb. 22, 4 p.m., HU117.Tne employment are urged to write Making of ''Inside Albany,\ John Chopack, Partner, Peat, ' now to The Scholarship Bank, Thurs .• reb. 16, 4 p.m., Strauss Marwick, Mitchell & Co. will According to the director, Steve Lounge. Information Session: give a lecture on \What Future Daitz, private financial aid Macy's Executive Management Corporate Managers Should donors consider applications on Program, Mon., Feb. 27,7 p.rri., Know About Tax Planning,\ a year-round basis and now is place TBA, Speaker: John February 16, 1984 at 3:45p.m. in the best time to start looking for Feinsot, Union alumnus, Room 312, Bailey Hall, Union fall 84 aid. The Scholarship College. Bank will send each student a . Inter~hips: Control Data: print-out of up to 50 sources of Summer Internships are The Economics Department aid that appear just right for available for students entering ~t Union College will present a each student based on his-her their Junior or Senior year. talk on ''The Literary response to a questionnaire sent Program is designed to provide Character of Economies,\ by the bank. experience and income for Friday, Feb. 17, at 3:30p.m. in Students with financial need students majoring- in Social Sciences Room 110. should send a business-siZed, Engineering, Computer Science The speaker will be Prof. stamped, self-addressed en- and Accounting. Deadline: Donald McCloskey, who holds a velope to The Scholarship Bank, March l. joint appointment in economics 10100 Santa Monica Blvd., Los ·The Dow Jones Newspaper and history at the University of Angeles, CA. 90067. Fund: Seniors who are minority Iowa and is spending the year at students interested in news the Institute for Advanced careers are invited to apply to Study at Princeton. HELP WANTED the 1984 Minority Editing Program. Applications are Arkady Shevchenkor former ·. available .. in the . Career . Soviet ambassador and under Development Center. Deadline: secretary general at the United Live-in or sleep in or show up March 1. ' . Nations, will present \A View by 3:45a.m. to sit for 2 children Baltimore· Museum of Art; from the Kremlin'' Thursday, 3 yrs. and 21 months old. May Summer internship for Juniors Feb. 16 at Union College. The leave at 7:45a.m. or stay until and Seniors who are interested lecture will begin at 8 p.m. in 1:30 p.m. Negotiable-Room & in a career in museum' work. Memorial Chapel and is board. Please contact 371-2162 Info. available in · CDE. sponsored by Speakers Forwn. Clifton Park area. Deadline: March 15. Tickets are available at the City of New York Department Student Box Office in Carnegie of Personnel: Recruitm!mt is Hall, and are $3 ( $2 with Union W A N TED : . C r e a t i v e ' · now underway for two · in=-· energetic individual to work t h' ·· c· College I. D.). . t tl _ 24 h k erns tps m tty government: consts en Y ours per wee • toe Urban Fellows Program & placing and filling posters on h s J .S. U. presents Mary a us E. $ 500 0 t e urnmer Management Greenfield of Planned c mp · arn · r more Intern Program. The: Urban Parenthood speaking . on each school year. Call 1 -8 00 - 243 - Fellows Program offers 20 \Judaism and Birth Control'' in 6679 · seniors, recent graduates, and the Kosher Kitchen (left side of Student Wanted-Commission graduate students the op· West). Services are at 5:30, Sales-Imprinted sportswear to portunity to work in high levels dinner is at 6:00 and the speaker clubs, frats, etc. Please contact.. of City agencies and mayoral following dinner at ap- _ -Paul .Silverstein at 462-3838. o:ffic.es. The Summer provimately 7:00 on Fri., Feb. Make your own hours. Management Intern· Program 17 ................................................. p.ro•v•W•e•s•4•0ijun .. io•r•s 8 ,s•e•n•m•r•s•a .. nd Trivial Pursuit Coming to Slapshots Slapshots announces· a trivial pursuit contest. Co- sponsored by Miller Lite Beeri the contest will run as follows: DATES: TIME: All games- to start at 7:30p.m. Tuesday, Feb. 21 • Sunday, Feb. 26 Tuesday, F.eb. 28 AWARDS: 1st Prize: $25.00 plus trophy 2nd Prize: 2 Slapshots t-shirts plus trophy 3rd Pr'ize: 2 Miller Lite baHcaps plus trophy All contestants will receive something! COST: $2.00 per team • 2 members per team TEAMS: All entries must be in by Sunday, Feb. 19 Only Accept 24 teams Please call Slapshots at 393·0594 SPECIAL NOTE: We will have a special price on Lite Beer throughout the contest. On Tuesday, Feb. 28 we will have one free keg of Lite Beer for all players. C. 1984 perie Infe·~ CDC. Fello Mane: Thl Wash inte psyc: stude He all for : Seni1 grad1 on p learn posin varia teaxr avail Marc Swn Arse Th open Surn Wat1 co lie Cler Clerl ·Aid Eng Ele Teet :Fo Jun~ Mec Tee Eng Matl Phy: At 15-M mar infm ava: posi1 w Tc Re • T·: Cl GJ Kt 81 bt Fe frc IN yc PI Yc 'f,

('ONCORDII:.:NS/S, february 16, 1984 CAMPUS NEWS CARE'BR NEWS . 1984 gradu~tes with work ex- perience in City .government. Info & applications available iil CDC. Deadline for Urban Fellows: March 1~; for SUIIllller Management Interns: March 1. Tt!e Psychiatric Institute of Wasbington, D.C.: ~en week in t e rn ships. J>r ovid in g psychiatric experience for students interested in Mental Health Careers are available for students entering their Senior year, o.r recent graduates. Emphasis is placed on providing the intern . with learning experiences and , ex- posing them to the . roles .of various disciplines of the health team. Applications are available in the CDC. Deadline: March 1. Swnmer Jobs at Watervliet Arsenal The followjng positions are open under . the 1984 Federal Summer Hire Program at ·Watervliet Arsenal: TWo years college or ex}Jertemce-:-Clerical: Clerk~Typist and Computer Clerk. Non-clerical-Recreation ~Aid (Life Guard); Mechanical Engineering Technician and Electrical Engineering Technician. :Four year college degree as of June 1984-Computer Assistant; Mechanical Engineering Te c hn icia n; Electrical Engineering Technician; Mathematician; Chemist and Physicist. Applications · a!!cepted Feb. 15-March 15; must be post- marked by March 15. More information and applications available in CDC. These positions. are very competitive. NOTE: Seniors interested in pennanent positions, contact William Cameron at 266-5679. Seeking Career Astdstants Any student who is interested in ~pplying for a position as a CareerAssistant for 1984-35, but who will NOT BE ON CAMPUS S?RING TERM, ;please contact Pam Hartman in the ·Career Development Center (6176) by Monday, February 20. CQ)rporate Cult~es You are invitedtolearn about ho:w corporate cultures differ and conSider where ·you woUld fit in. (Juniors and Seniors) Panelists: Peg Breen-TV journalist and anchor on \Inside Albany\; Tom Hart- man-UC alum, Assistant Director,. NYS Office of Health Systems Management; Mike Leach-VP Intermagnetics, fonnerly with AT&T and Liz Williams-?h.D Chemist at GE's R & D Center. Moderator will be Fran Nelbach and this will be held on Thursday, February 16 at 7 pm in Strauss. Refreshments will be .seried. The Film Committee Presents: FLASHDANCE-Fri., Sat., & Sun. February 17 thru February 19 at 7, 9 & 11 in SS 016. The cost is $1. Fellini's Amarcord on Tuesday, February 21 at 7:30 and 10 in SS015. Cost is $1. CLUB NEWS Folk Group will meet at 6:30 :p.m. Sunday, February 19th to rehearse before leading the Congregation in song at the 7: 30 p.m. Mass. Guitarists still needed. · New members welcome. Newman Club Meeting- Monday, February Zoth, 8:00 p.m. Carnegie, 4th Floor Lounge. CampuS Ministry Presents- Wednesday evening lecture series. February 22nd, Deacon Frank Lukovitz and his wife Anne, parents of tnree young adults, parishioners of St. Henry's, Averill Park., and experienced in pastoral counseling will lead a . discussion on Human Sexuality. All welcome. Bible Study on Gospel of Matthew, Thursday, February 23rd, 4:00 p.m. Campus Ministry Office. UGGA is sponsoring an AD & D Tournament on Feb. 17 & 18. Call6944. The Union College Alumni Club of Utica-Rome will bold a \Get-Together\ prior to the Union vs. Hamilton Hockey Game Tuesday, Feb. 21. The group will meet for coffee, hot chocolate, tea and coQkies in the Conference Room of the Athletic Center at lamilton, located upstairs off the main lobby. The game begins at 7:30, and tickets can be purchased at the rink. For reservations, Union College Pool in the Alumni Gym Won't you swim a lap to save lives? To benefit Leukemia Society of America Research Education-Patient Assistance * PRIZES \' T·Shirt to each swimmer who collects $25 or more Checkbook calculator to each swimmer who coUects over $5Q Grand Prize: Portable SONY color T.V. to person who collects the most monev Keg of beer to Fraternity, Sorority, Club or organization which brings in ~he most money. BEFORE THE EVENT: Sign up as many sponsors as you cart. A sponsor can be a friend, relative, teacher, businessperson, or anyone willing to pledge money for every length of the pool that you swim. For example, if the sponsor pledges lCX per length, and you swim 10 lengths, then you will collect $1.00 from that sponsor. IJV\PORT ANT: Tell your sponsor how many lengths you plan to complete. This will n:'lake it easier with · yo~r collection. A sponsor may prefer to make a donation rather than sponsor you per lap. PRE-REGISTRATION: At the Alumni Gym by Tuesday, February 21. · Af1\ER THE EVENT: Prizes ~II be awarded to individuals who turn in the most money by Monday, March 12. You may bring. pledge money and donations to the pool when you come to swim~ . For further information, call Deborah Casaceli at the l,eukemia ~iety 438-3583. contact Kathy Mullaney at 315- 733-7452 evenings. The Campus Ministry will now be offering Jewish Coun- seling and information on Jewish issues and activities. These services will be provided by Dr. Steven Berk of the Department of History and Dr. Seth Greenberg of the Depart- ment of Psychology. The hours for Dr. Greenberg will be 1:30- 2:30 on Monday and Friday and for Dr. Berk 1:30-2:30 Tuesday and Thursday. Capital District Jugglers. will meet in Gym D of the SUNY- ALBANY Physical Education Building every Wednesday Evening from 8:45-9:30 until spring. All levels of jugglers ~re welcomed.. For more m- formation callSteve Hirtle, 457- 8482. CLASSJFIEDS FOR SALE: Great car-1974 Buick Apollo, 70,000 miles. $800 negotiable, Blaupunkt am-fm cassette. Call Roberta 374-8769. Subletter wanted: Nice 1 bedroom apartment around Union St. area. June-August call 459.,7149. · Must Sell: Due to tremendous Phone Bill, I am forced to sell Pro Kennex \Black Ace\ tennis racket. This mid-sized Graphite racket cost $140.00 brand new. Will sell for $70.00 (reduced). Call quickly before phone is disconnected-Please! X6613 ask for George. TERMS ABROAD Opportunities exist for study in Japan during the fall term of 1984-85. The program includes living with a Japanese family, studying Japanese, and taking at least three additional courses related to East Asia. If you are interested in learning more about the program, please see Professor Thurston, SS213b. PERSONALS -- Geeks:-Wendy: It was fabulous! But the turf burn is hell. William: I'm so glad I didn't. Study: Uh, isn't God omniscient? . -Marlo DRW-Hope you like your PRESENT! I think it will be useful. Happy Valentine's Day. Love, PJF To my GIGOLO, (You know who you are!!) Happy Valen- tine's Day. You should come over to my place more, and I will rip your clothes off. Love, Joan Collins To my curly little blonde friend who is the epitome of cuteness-Happy Valentine's Day!! Thanks for everything. I love you. Love, your roommate SRP, Happy. Valentine's Day!! Y.T.T.R.L.S., GLR To all Reynolds' advisees- Not too much longer now and it'll be over!!!! Yes, they're doing it again! ! ! ! ! The Court Gestures .. are having their second show! Tuesday, Feb. 28, at 8:30 and 11: 00 p.m. Tickets are on sale at the booth Mon~ 20. Do you: want to have to pay admission to CAMP UNION this year??? If not, show up at the meeting to help out. Organizational meeting on Thurs. at 7:30 in 4th floor Page 17 lounge, Carnegie \ If you want Camp Union this year, come to the organizational meeting Thursday at 7:30 in 4th Floor wlll'lge. If no one shows Camp Union will be very small. Dear Mom, CongratUlations on \Tying the Knot'! Love always, Elisa-y9ur first Dear Andy, No matter what happens, we are still friends. Right? ! Keep in touch! ! I miss you. Love always, Cindy Mer-the-ber, I love you! YoU're the bestest roomie ever! love, lester Dear Cherie, Happy Vale:ntine;s Day!! Now you can say you've gotten a personal!! I love you!! Love, Cindy Dan, Get better soon!! I love you! ! love, les Dear Marc--Happy Valen- tine's Day!! I Love You!!! Forever, Susan Ralph: It was the best celebration of Lincoln's Bir- thday since 1809! I hope I'm so fortunate to be equally toasted when I'm 175. Keep smiling, I am! Old Weird Harold Squealer-I saw you in the maid's closet and you had the big S on. We all miss you. 2nd floor West Thanx for being a great daughter Linda. Only a little more time as a pledge! Get psyched for sister lockout and initiation! Much love, Your mom Great job on the candy Grams pledges!!! Way to be awesome pledges! Get psyched for sister lockout! We love you!! Sisters of D.G. The Women's Capital District Basketball Tournament is being held this Friday and Saturday at Albany State. The Dut- chwomen play St. Rose at 6:00 Friday and will play either 1:00 or 3:00 on Saturday afternoon. Come to SUNY at Albany. Support the women's team. Cay and Julie-Way to whip 'em in your last home game. We love you. Get psyched for the C C's and PSP!!!! Let's clip those rosebuds! Tired of raunchy en· tertainment such as Wanda Whips Wall Street? Come see the wholesome entertainment of LeGeno Galleries- This is deep-Says Dean Danials- Contact Julie Breslow or Amy Stake at 6448 for info. Purr- Thanx so much for everything! School would never be the same without you. You're always there for me, and you know I'm afways here for you. I think you know how much our friendship means to me. I love you kid! ! ! -me To all my roommates-I'rn really lucky to have made friends· like you. You're the greatest!!! Love, your other roommate in 250. Dave, Mike, Rob, Lisa and Stephanie, Thanks for the lift Friday nite. S,K. Rob, Do you still like me? Dave, My· black and blues thank you. DB, MF, RG, Just .one more ... please. S.K. Rob, How 'hout those flowers, unbelievable or what? Never again .. . Almost in charge

PUJ.:(' 18 ('ONCOR/)1/:'.'VS/;\; f'ehrua~:r J-6. /98./ .SP . I A Union First ... Men's Swimmers· Rebound Gar.net Five Defea·t Hamilton By MIKE FOX After a humbling defeat 6~29 at the hands of RPI, the Union's Men's Swim Team rebounded to victory over Utica College (57- 48) ' when they visited those teams last week. RPI was a poor meet for Union in general as both the men's and women's teams appeared psyc}led-out from the start. Despite the sUbdued atmosphere, the Dutchmen still managed to shine occasionally. Winners were Andy Crossley (50 Fr) and Kyle Cotugno (200 Fly). Second places were scored by Crossley (200 Bk~ as well as Mike Millet (200 Fr), Chris Sawchuck (100 Fr) and Brian Chabot (200. Br). By contrast., the Utica College meet saw Union. back in its usual enthusiastic spirit, This time the wins shared by Andy Crossley (200 Fr), Kyle Cotugno (200JM, 100 Fly}, Steve Jacobs (lQOBk)., Brian Cha.bot (lOOBr) and the 400 Fr relay team of Zehl, Cotugno, Sawchuck and Newbold. There were als() fine perfor1nances by Chris Sawchuck (50 Fr, 100 F\r) H()n - Newbold (500 · Fr}, Andy By A FAITHFUL FAN On Saturday night the women's basketball team beat Hamilton after dropping a game to a strong Oneonta team earlier in the week. Union's record now stands at 9-4 with only four games remaining in the season. Union's win over Hamilton marked the first time in the team's history that they have beaten the Hamilton round· bailers. Led by Rebecca Clemente's 18 points and Patty Richard's 16 points, the Dutchwomen took an early lead with a score of 36-23 at the half. \We knew they were going to come out fired up in the second half,\ said senior tri- captain Cay Lynch, ''and we knew we C'OUld not let up.\ The Hamilton hoopsters narrowed the lead to come within six points in the second half. With eight minutes remaining the score was 51-45. Union, however, regained its com- posure and took. control of the game and won 70-59. ''It was a total team effort,'' said sophomore tri-captain Rebecca Clemente, \We were playing together and everyone took good percentage shots. The team dominated over Hamilton, shooting 46 percent from the floor as compared to Hamilton's 31 percent. Defensively the team was also impressive. Senior tri-captain Julie Miller led the team in rebounds with 12; freshman Barbara Weisinger and Patty Richards both added 9. Saturday's game was the last Hockey ••• Continued from page 20 and this makes them work harder to achieve these goals. It also helps to have captains like Jamie and Gill, because they work hard and set good examples for the whole team.\ Which leads right back to attitude. \Sean has been real help this year,\ Egan claims. \He?sreallyinstilledinto us hard work and d~§cipline. It's great to finally be able to say that 'the record stands for itself'.\ NOTES: Unless there is a Norwegian judge among the playoff selectors who thinks ® Kerry Lynch plays for the Dutchmen, Union will be in the playoffs this year, which will begin after Union's last three games against Plattsburgh, North Adams, and Hamilton ... Senior appreciation day ceremonies occurred before the Colby game honoring this year's '84 graduates: Bart Brooks, Joe Caruso (who received a plaque for scoring 50 goals and 100 points in his career), Ben Maynard, and Chip Hauser ... Summer Jobs On ••Golden Pond•• Come work and have fun at the sa me t i me. Beaut i fu I are a., mountains, lakes, family resort needs cottage girls, office workers, and food service. June-September. - WRITE: Mr. Franklin Perkins, Mgr. Rockywold-Deephaven Camp~ Box B Holderness, N.H. 03245 or see Career P·lacement The Manhattan Exchange The newest and most exciting restaurant-bar in downtown Schenectady. 374-5930 605 Union Street (2 blocks from Union College)· Why Not Give Us A Try? home game for the Dut- chwomen. The Dutchwomen have not lost one home game this season. Union will par- ticipate in the Capital District Basket ball Tournament opening Saturday at 6:00 Friday night against St. Rose. Depending on the outcome of , the first tournament game, Union wHl play at 3:00 on Saturday (Championship Gamel or 1:00 (Consolation Game). Come to Albany State and support the women's basketball team. · Crossley ( 100 Bk, 100 Br) and Mike Fox: (1000 Fr). 'ntis brings Union's re~ord to 3-6 as they travel to their remaining meets at Albany and Hamilton this week They will then head for the State Championships Feb. · 23. Support Union Sports F&~ lit \Jesl CoUa;e ~ 2- S Ptrl~ S!Utw.l&!l ~ Hale , \lei\- 3~7 p~ ~iBC>n<lack.-E.Raftsfanc; R:-riuniR~-£nteat~· · featutu~ . f'alUIU~ . ,. 'Pau~-'MM- \1oodseu}pk.Rd. At\i~\. CaP.l \J~~Ban~nt Ca\\1\\\en- Map\e SIJ~ ~en~ a. · . · · Barn Dept. of Coosei\Vatioo ~ \\o\a\111\e ~lyli$tk.~ S\~ &Od J\a11toocl.ake ~o .... ch Ceo\a HMe & tt'• Duo · nk~'The lard Nobod~ Know~· Coon\au, · ·. e\ D\oneQ. SchoboiRe l1~om rf ~OS 'falent .. Sbow • Pub ~t g,oof'l'l Indi4nS Ni~towh --10~ ... 2 am. - .ArJ Menu, Molle CRaft, ·~ ~ announced ••. · • . • - - - - M In the,r .poin1 Mee1 tean inj1,11 seas' thre• 17 sc teart pers' 1- Q! > .c ~ .c c 0 pia Co centt Dutc the \li perfc Ro test 1 winn six ! fifte pairE Cole, one 1 Fe, l1 Th tearr last l Seni · Duti

Men's Track Takes .Second By DIU In their best rneetthis season, the ·men's track tearn scored 72 .points at the Capital District Meet to place second out .of five teams. The team was without injuries for the fir~ time this season and .managed to. produce three Capital District winners, 17 scoring places, at least eight team season bests anc,i many · personal and season records. > .c ~ .c: Q. To~ scorer Winston Britton was a winner in the 50 meter dash (5.9~), the 4pl) meter dash (5().24)., and was in the winning mile relay team of .Britton, Black, Granger, Stanland which ran 3.33 .. Gary Wenner also took first in the pole vault jumping 13'4:\ for the second week in a row, and $cott Remillard threw the 35 pound weight 45'2'' for first in that event: An ou~tanding· second place performance was made by Bob Bertagna in the triple jump where he leaped 44'6\ his best jump ever. Gorge Capozzi followed' Britton in the 50m in 6.0. An amazing effort by Neal Ricks in the 5000 meter run gained him second place (15.55). The 'list continues with these scorers: Mark Dunn (shot put, weight throw}, Pete Granger (500m), Chris O'Donnell (l()()()zp), Bill R6berts (3000), Dave Stanland ( 54.6), and Rob Mohlar (800m). After a season .of injuries, the team pulled off a major victory Friday which . should carry them successfully into the championship season ahead of them. They race at West Point next week and then enter the invitational and state meets. The large crowd that showed up at the fieldhouse saw the best meet this season. Those in- terested in seeing an even higher powered meet sholild come to the Union Men's Invitational on March 3. Outstanding triple.jump of 44'6\ brought Bob Bertagna second · The women did not race this week but will be competing in the Union Women's Invitational this Saturday in the fieldhouse, All are welcome to attend this meet which will host over a dozen teams from · the nor- the~st. place and a persona I best. Athle.te of the Week By :DREW HURLEY Sports Staff . Congratulations to junior center Mike Rozzi of the Skating Dutchmen who gains athlete of the week honors for his recent performance. · Rozzi has been Union's hot- test player during the six game winning streak, as he's scored six goals and nine assists for fifteen points .. Since being paired with Gill Egan and Curt Cole, Rozzi has been centering one of Union'S top lines. He is currently Union's foi.lrth leading scorer with nine goals, fifteen assists for 24 points. '.!;his past weekend Rozzi contributed two assists in Union's two key victories over Bowdoin ·:and Colby. He has recorded an assist ineach of Union's last six games. Mike, who captained Union's. golf team last spring, is a graduate of the New Hampton ,:= School where he played on one g of the best prep teams in the o. country. A political science o major, Mike is from South en Burlington. VT, and is a brother of Chi Psi. Mike Rozzi Four games- to play ... • Hoopsters Drop To 9:-11 By BLACKNESS Sports Staff The Union College basketball team sUffered two tough defeats last week, dropping their reeord to 9-11. Nationally-ranked Hartwick slipped by 'tbe Dut- chmen 56·52 at Memorial Fieldhouse on Wednesday, and on Saturday the Garnet traveled to Norwich (18-3) and .. Senior hooper Joe Wood evades two Hartwick defenders. The Dutchmen lost 69·64. were handed a 69-64 loss. Hartwick, which handed the DutcQ1llena 17 point loss earlier in the season, found themselves in a struggle this time around. After falling behind 22-13, Union rallied to tie the game 24-24 at the half. Neither team could pull away in the second half, but Hartwick's Jerry O'Grady who finished with 28 points, made six free throws in the closing minutes to ice the victory for the Warriors. Joe Wood led Union with 15 .points, while Ken D'Orazio and Tom Blackburn added 10 apiece. At Norwich, the Dutchmen rode Joe Wood's 17 first half points . to a 36-31 lead at the intermission, but the Cadets bounced back to take their first lead 50-48 with 9:38 remaining in the game. Union surged ahead 62~0 for the last time on a D'Orazio jmnp shot, but Nor- wich scored 9 of the game's last 11 points in sending Union to their third straight setback. Wood again led Unioo with 21 points and D'Orazio chipped in with !7. . The Dutchmen now have four games remaining on their quest for a winning season beginning wfth a trip to St. Lawrence this Saturday. Page 19 SPO Olympl,c Hockey ••• Sports Talk With SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff Over the past week a lot of attention has been directed towards the game of ice hockey. In the Capital District three teams in particular have gotteri the most attention. Both the Union and ltPI hockey teams find themselves fighting . for home ice in the upcoming ECAC playof{s. The red hot Skating Dutchinen of Union have rea,lly put it together and find them- selves as one of the most respected squads in Oviision II hockey circles. The third hockey club that has been in the news as of late has been the United States Olympic Hockey team. Unlike the . Skating Dutchmen and the Engineers, the young Olympians have struggled, to say the least, over the past week. The 1984 winter games in Sarajevo have been plagued by bad weather and also bad performances by what many Amei'icans thoUght to be our best team over in Yugoslavia, the American hockey team. The United States media had been playing up the Americans bid for gold on the ice ever since the team was selected way back in August. Department stores, sporting goods retailers and grociers all attempted to boost sales during the months preceeding the winter games by promotions with the American skaters. One could turn their television on during the prime time hours of progrannning and , witness commercials for products that were the official snack food, official coffee and official mini four wheel drive station wagon of the 1984 Olympic hockey team. When it came down to time to set a schedule for events to be covered during the many hours of ABC telecasts, Roone Arledge and company decided that the star of the 60 plus hours of Olympic coverage would be the U.S. hockey team. ABC promoted Olympic coverage with shots of Jim Craig draped by American flag and Mike Eruzione md his gold medal from the miracle of 1980. Since most Americans took all of this hype minus a grain of salt, they expected the U.S. squad to bring at least a medal home from Europe. The imp()rtarit grain of salt that these expectant U.S. fans did not know about was twofold. Unlike in 1980, the Americans traveled to this year's winter games facing the toughest road to even a bid to the medal round of any team in attendance. The . U.S.'s only hope for a bid to the medal round would be realized with wins over what experts predicted to be two of the best teams in our bracket. The opener was against a tough Canadian squad that took the added incentive of revenge out on the ice with them against U.S.A. We squealed on their \supposed~' illegal players and they came out fired up from the outset to dominate the Americans. The young U.S. was then forced to battle the very tough Czech's a day later. Considered one of the best teams in the world, the U.S. Olympians C()uld only muster a lone MarkKumpel goal en route to Sarejevo record of none in the up column and two in the down column. Millions of Americans, not excluding the big whigs at ABC couldn't believe it when the results from the hockey team's third game came in and at the end of the wire copy they read, \The Americans are now out of contention for a chance to move on to the medal round.\ Medal round? Whatever happened to the gold medal that Mr. and Mrs. middle America had been made to believe that the young skaters would bring back from Yugoslavia. The fact is that the Americans had left for the games as heavy underdogs to even get to the medal round. ABC wasn't going to tell us this though, they had laid all their cards on the table in hopes that the Americans would come up aces. The pressure for our squad to repeat the once in a lifetime miracle on ice was amazing. It showed through during post game interviews as both coaches and players alike squirmed during attempts to come up with reasons for their supposed \failure on ice.\ Yes the U.S. had a goodteam but tpe fact remains that even though our team looked good, the teams we had to get by for a chance at a medal were that much tougher. Let's go Dutchmen and Engineers and enjoy the rest of the games even though AI Michaels is calling double toe loops instead of slapshots. -AT THE RAT Sat., Feb. 18, 10-2 a.m. Mid Term Special Nite Rock & Roll to the Night Owls Food Specials: Buffalo Wings $1.75 • Milk Shakes 75¢ Small Soda 10¢- Featured Beer--Stroh's On Fri., Mar 2 The Rat:hSkellar proud lypresents: 1 OODAYS TO GRADUATION CELEBRATION 5-7p.m. Sitdown Dinner for Everyone $3.00 • upperclassmen meal cards accepted MENU: Choiceofsteakorshrimpina basket French Fries • Salad • Dessert • S.everage Also, our regular menu will be available. Strictly sitdown, there will be no counter service until after 7 p.m. Reservations will be taken ior special menu until Feb. 29th. 10-2 a.m. Back by Popular Demand The Colby Sno Revue Lilte Nite Food Specials Buffalo Wings $1.75 • Milk Shakes $.75 Small Soda $.10 • Featured Bee-r-- Pabst f l I.

i- a:: > ..0 ,g 0 J: a. PUJ.:t' ]() CO.V{ 'OR.f)//:'.\'.\'1.\~ f'f!hnwr.r /6, /9H.J SPORTS Skating Dutchmen Eye Playoffs By A.W. \At the end of last year,\ recalls assistant coach . Sean TeeVens, \Coach Morrison and I sat down and ·reviewed what the faults of the team were and what had to be done about it for next year. We concluded that a change in attitude was essen- tiaJ.:..one in which hard work would be of utmost importance. I think it has made a difference this year.\ Difference may be an un~ derstatement. The Union College Skating Dutchmen sent two unhappy busloads back to Maine last weekend, defeating both Bowdoin and Colby, 4-1 and 5-2. With their 5-2 win over Williams earlier in the week, Union has now won 6 in a row, and 9 out of their last 10. It's the longest streak ever by a Morrison~oached team, and the Dutchmen will almost certainly be going to their first ECAC hockey Division II playoffs under Coach Morrison. Attitude has been the main reason for Union's surge. Mike Rozzi, who has been on a tear these past six games witb 6 goals and 10 assists, feels the team has had this positive at- titude all year. \All of us have confidence, which is important. Even in the R.P.I. game, I remember thinking before the third period that, although we were down, we still had a chance,\ said Rozzi. \The whole team is involved. Look at the Colby game: all four lines were a part of at least one goal.\ \Last year there was quite a bit of pressure placed on too few people,'' reiterated winger BHJ Kirby. ''The pressure, along with our nine 1-goallosses, was definitely detrimental to our confidence. This year we set the tone early by winning those two overtime games. I think this new attitude can be attributed to Coach Tee Vens.\ The weekend series was vie)Ved as crucial by Union. Bowdoin was the first place team in the East, while Colby was in the top five. \The whole team was pumped up right before the Bowdoin game,\ said Jamie Knight. \There was a lot of emotion involved in that game. I guess that's how it is when you play the top teams. We must have put on a good show because I understand that the Bowdoin coach remarked that he was relieved that he didn't have to .play us again.\ Wayne McDougall had a great game in the nets, especially in the second period,. when he was tested with a barrage of challenging shots, including a couple of break-aways that he turned aside, The Colby contest was a typical Dutchman type of , victory, but this time included not only solid forechecking. but a balanced scoring attack and constant intimidation by one Gill Egan. Chris M. Huntington, just brought up from J.V., had one goal and an assist and also had agoal in the Bowdoin game, while Rozzi. and Kirby . set up two other goals with exceptional centering passes. Egan also added a goal, but more notably frustrated the Mules With his aggressive play around the boards. One player was so frustrated with Egan that he made a great attempt to split Gill's head .ip two, but to no avail. All it did was give that player a five minute major penalty, which led to a Union goal. Was there, perhaps, any way Gill used his own stick in a certain way to perpetrate such a vicious retaliation? \You'd best ask him yourself-number 22, I think it was.\ (Number 22 was unavailable for conunent.) Other reasons besides a new attitude have helped The Skating Dutchmen this year. First, the defense. \Last year we had defensemen who could bang it out against the boards, Senior forward .Ben ,Maynard zeroes in on goal in the Dutchmen's 4~1 victory over the Bowdoin Polar Be.ars. and that's about all,\ says Coach TeeVens. \This year, we have guys back there who can control the puck, and this gives us so many more opportunities to put the puck in.\ This year's core includes three freShmen; T.J. Ryan and John MacKenzie give that triQ experience. Dave Weiss has contributed a great deal to this group, and has been especially adept at controlling the puck in his own end Support Union Sports The strengtp. of the J.V. program has· also helped this year·'s varsity squad. ''It's fabulous if yotJ can get a Mike Rozzi, Bobby Hawkes, or Paul Kurker to come through the system, work hard, and make thEl contributions they have this year,\ coach TeeVens .ex- plained, who himself is partly why that program is of such high quality. It is the first time Morrison has had a coach stay with him for more than one year, which has been beneficial. \Now that I know the system and the players, I have a better rapport with the whole team. Th~y understand better what goals 1 expect them to fulfill, Continued on page 18 ECAC Division II Wes.t Standings RH 21-2-0 Oswego 16-3-0 UNION 11-4-1 Elmira 13-7-0 North Adams 12-8.-2 Potsdam 11-9-1 PI attsbu rgh 12-10-0 913 842 719 650 591 58.7 545 Ski Team \Looking Two Gates Ahead\ Dutchmen defenders (1. to r.) John McKenzie (17), Wayne Mc- Dougall.and Dave Appleby (25) deny another B.owdoin attack. Swimmers Finish 3-6 By SHARON PEARL Sports Staff The women swifnfners did not win any meets this week, but once again had some very strong individual per- formances.LastVVednesdaythe team's times were a bit off, due in part to a very warm pool, which resulted in a 61-25 loss to a very strong RPI team. The team's only first place was from sophomore standout Lisa Freed in · the 100-yard backstroke. There were several second place finishes from Union's 200 yard medley relay team of Freed, Karen Califano, Sharon Pearl, and Jaymie Ridless, in the 200 yard free by Sally Carey, Ridless in the 50 yard free, Pearl in the 200 individual medley, Betsy Boutwell in the 500 free, and Califano in the 100 breaststroke, followed closely by Kim Biggs. Pearl, Boutwell, Carey, and Freed also qualified their 800 yard freestyle relay for the AIAW New York State Division III Championships this Wednesday-Saturday at the University of Rochester. On Saturday the team traveled to Utica for a double dual meet with Utica and William Smith. Union lost both meets with scores of 76-32, and 85-25 respectively. The meet started off well with Betsy Boutwell and Lynn Hano taking . first and second places in the 1000 yard freestyle, but Union was not able to keep up with the strength and depth of the other teams. Our lack of a diving board (and therefore a diver) leaves us with a 16 point disadvantage for each away meet. Union did have two relays that qualified for the state meet, both the 400 yard medley relay of Freed, Califano, Robin King, and Pearl and the 400· yard freestyle relay of Pearl, Carey, Boutwell, and Freed. Although the team's record is not as good as we would have liked it to be, the women have had a very good first year with 14 swimmers finishing up the season and an amazing amC>Wlt of improvement and many individual best tinies from Kim Biggs, Megan Lutzker, Katja Bock, Anne Marie Loftis, Elissa Adler, and Carol Urfer. Next year should be ·even better for the team with the return of junior standout Trish Bowering and freshman Donna Gardner. The season has been very rewarding for the team . and they have a lot to be proud of. As captain, I would like to thank all the men and women swimmers for making this season such a special one! Best of luck next year! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ByCAROLYERDEN The skiing Dutchmen are back for another season with a new captain and many talented freshmen. The first race was at Holiday Valley hosted by the University of Buffalo, the second race was at Greek Peak, hosted by Cornell. Retired coach Brian Walters had some words of advice, \Keep your head up and always look two gates ahead.\ ·when flying down an icy race course this can be ~reat advice. As conditions prooved it was icy:; but most of the racers were more con- cerned with keeping warm and limber, with temperatures approaching -50 degrees fahrenheit. Despite extreme conditil)ns the team did quite well in both races against the twelve Division UI ski teams. The majority of the new blood on the team this year consists of women. In quality as wen as number the team has more than tripled. The new members are Denise Kitsock, Jennifer Scommiers, Sarah Calderrini, Debbie Carr, Lauren Sanders, and Jesse Ruoff. Kitsock and Scommiers led the team at Greek Peak, while Carr and Sanders, with a little less ex,- perience. were very valuable at the University of Buffalo race. Carol' Yerden is back from last year. She had a few falls at the first race but still managed to finish in the top one-third. The women's team beat Hamilton and Hobart in both races. Bart Lehman and Eric Colsnah are definitely most improved so far. In their first races at Buffalo and Cornell they did very well. The men's team beat Hamilton, Hobart, and Buffalo at Cornell with help from Mike Baltay, Earl Stokes, and Brian VValter~. Baltay beat fifty skiers and the best times from seven other schools. Baltay has gained a lot more consistency and the team is counting on him. He may have to watch out for his younger brother Tom and his fraternity brother Pat Vernich. Unfor- tunately,after the first race Dan Rosenfeld broke his thumb and will be out for the remainder of the season. Sports Happenings Feb. 16-23 Varsity Hockey Feb. 18 North Adams 7:30 (A) Feb. 21 Hamilton 7:30 (A) Men's Basketball Feb. 18 St. Lawrence 3:00 (A) Feb. 22 RPI 8:00 (A) J. V. Men's Basketball Feb. 22RPI 8:00 <A> Women's Basketball Feb. 17·18 Capital District Tournament at Albany St. (A) Men's Swimming Feb. 18 Hamilton 2:00 (A) Feb. 23·25 State Meet (A) Women's Swimming .Feb. 16·18NYSAIAW Meet at Rochester (A) Women's Indoor Track Feb. IS'l,Jnic;m lnvy (H) Union4 Unions unions Hartwick 56 Norwich 69 ·union78 Oneonta 58 Urlion 70 Union 79 RPI69 Union 57 RPI61 Utica 16 WilHam Smith 85 Albany St. 78 Unlon72 SCOREBOARD HOCKEY (Jl-4·1) (13·7-1 overall) MEN'S BASKETBALL (9·11) WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (10•4) MEN'S SWIMMING (3-6) . WOMEN'SSWIMMING MEN'S TRACK (4·4) Bowdoin 1 ColbY2 Plattsburgh 2 Union 52 Union64 New r='altz48 Union41 Hamilton 59 Russell Sage62 Union 29 Utica 48 Union 25 Union 32 Union25 Union72 RPI64 HVCC.38 Siena 26

1- 0:: >- .0 0 .... 0 .c Q. CO.\'CORIJII:'S\'JS. Ft'hruun !fJ. 198.J SPORTS Skating Dutchmen Eye Pia yoffs By A.W. \At the end of last year,\ recalls assistant coach Sean TeeVens, \Coach Morrisl!m and I sat davm and ·reviewed what the faults of the team were and what had to be done about it for next year. We concluded that a change in attitude was essen- tial-one in which hard work wowd be of utmost importance. I think it has made a difference this year.\ Difference may be an un· derstatement. The Union College Skating Dutchmen sent two unhappy busloads back to Maine last weekend, defeating both Ba'Wdoin and Colby, 4-1 and 5-2. With their 5-2 win over Williams earlier in the week, URion lias now won 6 in a row, and 9 out of their last 10. It's the longest streak ever by a MorrisC>n-caached team, and the Dutchmen will almost certainly be going to their fir'st ECAC hockey Division II playoffs under Coach Morrison. Attitu.de has been the main reason for Union's surge. Mike Rozzi, -who has been on a tear these past six games with 6 goals and 10 assists, feels the team has had this positive at- titude all year. \All of us have confidence, which is important. Even in the R.P.I. game, I remember thinking before the third period that, although we were dawn, we sUll had a chance,\ said Rozzi. ''The whole team is involved. Look at the Colby game: all four lines were a part of at least one goal.\ \Last yea,r there was quite a bit of pressure placed on too few people,\ reiterated winger Bill Kirby. \The pressure, along with our nine 1-goallosses, was definitely detrimental to our confidence. This year we set the tone early by winning those two overtime games. I think this new attitude can be attributed to Coach TeeVens.\ The weekend series was viewed as crucial by Union. Bowdoin was the first place team in the East, while Colby was in the top five. \The whole team was pumped up right before the Bowdoin game,\ said Jamie Knight. \There was a lot of emotion involved in that game. I guess that's haw it is when you play the top teams. We must have put on a gaod show because I understand that the Bowdoin coach remarked tl:lat he was relieved that he didn't have to play us again.\ Wayne McDougall had a great game in the nets, especially in the second period, when he was tested with a barrage of challenging shots, including a couple of break-aways that he turned aside. The Colby contest was a typical Dutchman type of victory, but this time included not only solid ferechecking, but a balanced scoring attack and constant intimidation by one Gill Egan. Chris M. Huntington, just brought up from J.V., had one goal and an assist and also had a goal in the Bowdoin game, while Rozzi and Kirby set up two other goals with exceptional ceHtering passes. Egan also added a goal, but more notably frustrated the Mules with his aggressive play around the boards. One player was so frustrated witll Egan that he made a great attempt to split Gill's head in two, but to no avail. All it did was give that player a five minute maior penalty, which led to a Union goal. Was there, perhaps, any way Gill used his own stick in a certain way to perpetrate such a vicious retaliation? \You'd best ask him yourself-number 22, I think it was.\ ( N wn ber 22 was unavailable for comment. ) Other reasons besides a new attitude have helped The Skating Dutchmen this year. First, the defense. ''Last year we had defensemen who could bang it out against the boards, Ser:l ior forward Ben Maynard zeroes in on goal in the Dutchmen's 4-l victory over f,he Bowdoin Polar Bears. ard that's about all,\ says Coach TeeVens. \This year, we have guys back there who can control the puck, and this gives us so many more opportunities to put the puck in.\ This year's core includes three freshmen; T.J. Ryan and John MacKenzie give that trio experience. Dave Weiss has contributed a great deal to this group, and has been especially adept at controlling the puck in his own end Support Union Sports The strengtp of the J. V. program has also helped this year's varsity squad. \It's fabulous if you can get a Mike Rozzi, Bobby Hawkes, or Paul Kurker to come through the system, work hard, and make the contributions they have this year,'' coach TeeVens ex- plained, who himself is partly why that program is of such high quality. It is the first time Morrison has had a coach stay with him for more than one year, which has been beneficial. \Now that I know the system and the players, I have a better rappart with the whole team. They understand better what goals I expect them to fulfill, Continued on page 18 ECAC Division II West Standings RIT 21-2-0 Oswego 16-3-0 UNION 11-4-1 Elmira 13-7-0 North Adams 12·8·2 Potsdam 11·9·1 Plattsburgh 12·10·0 913 842 719 650 591 587 545 Ski Team \Looking Two Gates Ahead\ -- Dutchmen defenders (1. to r.) John McKenzie (17), Wayne Me· Dougall and Dave Appleby (25) deny another Bowdoin attack. Swimmers Finish 3-6 By SHARON PEARL Sports Staff The Women swimmers did not win any meets this week, but once again had some very strong individual per- formances. Last Wednesday the team's times were a bit off, due in part to a very warm pool, which resulted in a 61-25 loss to a very strong RPI team. The team's only first place was from sophomC>re standout Lisa Freed in the 100-yard backstroke. There were several second place finishes from Union's 200 yard medley relay team of Freed, Karen Califano, Sharon Pearl, and Jaymie Ridless, in the 200 yard free by Sally Carey, Ridless in the 50 yard free, Pearl in the 200 individual medley, Betsy Boutwell in the 500 free, and Califano in the 100 breaststroke, followed closely by Kim Biggs. Pearl, Boutwell, Carey, and Freed also qualified their 800 yard freestyle relay for the AIAW New York State Division III Championships this Wednesday-Saturday at the University of Rochester. On Saturday the team traveled to Utica for a double dual meet with Utica and William Smith. Union lost troth meets with scores of 76&32, and 85-25 respectively. The meet started off well with Betsy Boutwell and Lynn Hano taking first and second places in the 1000 yard freestyle, but Union was not able to keep up with the strength and depth of the other teams. Our lack of a diving board (and therefore a diver) leaves us with a 16 point disadvantage for each away meet. Union did have two relays that qualified for the state meet, both the 400 yard medley relay of Freed, Califano, Robin King, and Pearl and the 400 yard freestyle relay of Pearl, Carey, Bout well, and Freed. Although the team's record is not as good as we would have liked it to be, the women have had a very good first year with 14 swimmers finishing up the season and an amazing amount of improvement and many individual best times from Kim Biggs, Megan Lutzker, Katja Bock, Anne Marie Loft is, Elissa Adler, and Carol Urfer. Next year should be even better for the team with the return of junior standout Trish Bowering and freshman Donna Gardner. The season has been very rewarding for the team and they have a lot to be proud of. As captain, I would like to thank all the men and women swimmers for making this season such a special one! Best of luck next year! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ByCAROLYERDEN The skiing Dutchmen are back for another season with a new captain and many talented freshmen. The first race was at Holiday Valley hosted by the University of Buffalo, the second race was at Greek Peak, hosted by Cornell. Retired coach Brian Walters had some words of advice, \Keep your head up and always look two gates ahead.\ When flying down an icy race course this can be great advice. As conditions proovedit was icy, but most of the racers were more con- cerned with keeping warm and limber, with temperatures approaching -50 degrees fahrenheit. Despite extreme conditions the team did quite well in both races against the twelve Division III ski teams. The majority -of the new bl<Jod on the team this year consists of women. In quality as well as number the team has more than tripled. The new members are Denise Kitsock, Jennifer Scommiers, Sarah Calderr-ini, Debbie Carr, Lauren Sanders, and Jesse Ruoff. Kitsock and Scommiers led the team at Greek Peak, while Carr and Sanders, with a little less ex- perience, were very valuable at the University of Buffalo race. Carol Y erden is back from last year. She had a few falls at the first race but still managed to finish in the top one-third. 'I'he women's team beat Hamilton and Hobart in both races. Bart Lehman and Eric Colsnah are definitely most improved so far. In their first races at Buffalo and Cornell they did very well. The men's team beat Hamilton, Hobart, and Buffalo at Cornell with help from Mike Baltay, Earl Stokes, and Brian Walters. Baltay beat fifty skiers and the best times from seven other schools. Baltay has gained a lot more consistency and the team is . counting on him. He may have to watch out for his younger brother Tom and his fraternity brother Pat Vernich. Unfor- tunately,after the first race Dan Rosenfeld broke his thrunb and will be out for the remainder of the season. Sports Happenings Feb. 16-23 Varsity Hockey Feb.18 North Adams 7:30 (A) Feb.21Hamilton 7:30(A) Men's Basketball Feb.18St. Lawrence 3:00(Al Feb. 22 RPI 8:00 (Al J. V. Men's Basketball Feb. 22 RPI 8:00 <Al Women's Basketball Feb. 17 18 Capital District Tournament at Albany St. (A) N\en'sSwimming Feb.18Hamilton 2:00(A) Feb. 23 25 State Meet (A) Women's Swimming Feb. 16·18 NYSAIAW Meet at Rochester (A) Women's Indoor Track Feb. 18 Union lnvy (H) Union4 Unions Union 5 Hartwick 56 Norwich 69 Union 78 Oneonta 58 Union 70 Union79 R P169 Union 57 R fll 61 Utica 76 William Smith 85 Albany St. 78 Union 72 SCOREBOARD HOCKEY (11-41) (13-7-1 overall) MEN'S BASKETBALL (911) WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (10·4) MEN'S SWIMMING (3-6) WOMEN'S SWIMMING MEN'S TRACK (44) Bowdoin 1 Colby 2 Plattsburgh 2 Union 52 Union64 New Paltz 48 Union41 Hamilton 59 Russell Sage 62 Union 29 Ulica48 Union 25 Union32 Union 25 Union 72 RPI64 HVCC 38 Siena 26 Ill c: ... 0 ~ Vl ~ c Ill ... LL > .0 0 - 0 .s:::. Q. I i ; IJJ c: ..Q .0 0 0:: Q) > Q) - (/) >- .0 .£ 0 .c Q.

ViCe Presiden·t for Finance, john Hauser~ explains the possible financial resources for the Campus College Center Project. Alcohol Subject of Talk ... 1877 February 2-3, 1984 Initial Plans Made For Carnegie Campus Center By GAYLE ROSENFELD News Editor In late 1982, the Board of Trustees authorized President John M.orris to appoint a committee . for the expressed purpose (If designing a program for a Union College C~mpus Center. This group, known as The Program Planning Com• mittee, consists of ad- ministrators,. faculty, and students. They are as .follows: Dean . qf Students Joseph Mammola as chairman ·of the committee, Vice President for Finance .John Hauser, Executive Associate to the President Jack Maranville. Director of Alumni Affairs Harry Demgen, Director of Campus Operations Jack Hill, Director of Food Service Jan Gray, Professor of English Ruth Stevenson, Professor of Psychology Seth Greenberg, and Junior Steve Benson. Former Student Forum President Ilene Landress was also an original member of this committee until she graduated last spring. project'S completion, if all goes well. The approved ar- chitectural firm will first survey the site, Andrew Car- negie Hall, this summer and should then have blueprints drawn up by the following fall. Then, the center will be put out for bid to obtain a contractor. In February of 1985, construction should begin. A completion date is scheduled for September, ·19116. Liability Addressed This committee met weekly for~.four and one half months from Januacy to May of 1983. ln June. of that year, the group presented a report of its fin- dings to President Morris. According to Mamrp.ola, \The president, in tum, shared the report wi.tb the. Board of Trustees at the board meeting in June and the board authorized the president t.o proceed to the next phase in planning.'' However, there are some problems with this February commencement date. First, snow and other winter con- ditions could affect con- struction. Also, Union holds classes until June so the long term inconvenience to the campus is esealated. Third, the relocation of services, and the like, now located in Carnegie could prove to be quite a problem. By LORI OLIWENSTEIN staff, \Alcohol is a drug Literature refers to alcohol as 'the drug of choice' of kids on campus today . . . Alcohol is a sedative, slows down the ner- vo~ sybtem: . . . slows down your ability to react in an emergency situation, and also lowers your inhibitions, and that's where you guys have your problems. When the people at your parties have their inhibitions lowered, you wind up with problems.\ So stated Troy Attorney Charles Carletta, addressing the workshop on \Liability in Alcohol Related Cases,'' Wednesday night, February 15. Carletta, a law partner in the firm of Paterson, Sampson, Ginsburg and Griffen, PC, who represents both Russell Sage and RPI, spoke to the members of the IFC and the Panhellenic Council on the problems resulting from alcohol con- sumption at campus parties. In the tjme. period from 1971- 1981, twenty•eight college students died from alcohol related problems, not including those killed from driving while intoxicated. Carletta began his talk by relating some .of those incidents to the group. \The interest we have in this is, you people run an organization. The incidents I pointed ·out to you all result in some kind of Utigation. A lawsuit like tpis is in your backyard every time you have a rt \ .pa y. He went on to explain what happens in .the case of such a .lawsuit. \I'm a plaintiff's lawyer, that means I sue people. ,That's What I do for a living. I make my living on a percentage of what· I get for the plaintiff ... Now, I may not get the right defendant, I might not sue the right (person) . ; . How do I overcome that? I overcome that .by suing everybody I can find, okay? So the kld in your fraternity house who gets lilt in the eye with a beer can ... this kid's got a lesion on the brain .. . DOA ... What's the value of the life of a contemporary of yours right now . . , l've got a five million dollar case minimum ••. I'm going to sue everybody I can find, because If I miss, I'm screwed. I'm going after the fraternity. If you're not incorporated, that means you're wide open, no protection. I'm going to sue your national. Who else? Who are your of- ficers? Name 'em, I'm going to sue 'em. Who ran the event? Name him, I'm going to sue him. Bartenders . . . Rush chair- person or pledge master, sue him. Why? Because I don't know who I need, so I grab everybody, 'ca-use somebody's going to pay.\' \So you sit there and say to me, 'I ain't got the money.' You will have. I've got twenty years to collect from you. Twenty years iri the state of N e:w York. I get ten percent of your salary, minimum, for twenty years. You buy a house, I get the house. You buy a car., I get the car. I get everything ... Twenty years of that until I get my five million dollars. Who's losing? You're losing.\ Carletta went on to discuss the risk ofa house being without the protection of a corporation (there are currently only two houses at Union that are in- corporated), and even more. so, of the risk of not being insured against lawsuits like the one described. He urged the houses to phone their insurance agents and find out what kind and how much insurance they currently are receiving. Next discussed was the problem of serving alcohol to an individual who is under the New York State legal drinking age of nineteen. \The only person in the state of New York who can give alcohol to a minor, fre~ frQm any kind of liability, is that child's parents ... Serve alcohol to a minor, you're individually liable . · . . . Strict liability? Absolutely. I don't even have to prove negligence.'' In order to protect against this liability, Carl etta suggested a number of methods which can be instituted \If you have a technique that is used at the door, I can present that to the jury. I can say 'These guys really gave it a shot. Tbey tried to prevent this incident from happening. They had positive identification at the door . . . they served drinks by the glass only . . . they had a cadre of sober brothers who were conimitted to working the party ... !'\ More specific examples in~ eluded the use of plastic wrist hands that don't come off easily (hand stamps are not really considered sufficient, since they are so easy to fake), and the one-cup system where a person is issued a cup and is only allowed to refill his drink if he has a cup. Atbird type of protection, and one which Carletta has used at Sage and says is highly ef- fective, is the hiring of off•duty police. \(Hire) off-duty Schenectady cops to be your . bouncers. Best insurance policy you can have ... Wh~n you hire an off-duty cop you get somebody who will stay sober ... Continuedollpage3 Search for Architect . Last October, the board then authorized Morris to look for an architect for the building. \A search for the architect,\ added Mammola, \solicited interest from fort;y-five architectlll'al firms.\ This list is being narrowed down, at present, and now stands at ten. Said Mam- mola, \We (the committee members) are confident that we can make a recommendation for an architect to the president by the April meeting of the Board of Trustees.\ Last January, the board instructed the .president to research the financial cost for such a building and to report this in- formation at the April board meeting as well. Tentative Schedule Presently, Mammola has a tentative schedule for the On a side D()te, most students who are atte11ding the College, at present, will not be here upon its· completion. The entire project will be a sacrifice on the part of everyone, but the current students will not reap the benefits of the center. Also, construction does not make for a more attractive campus, especially dnring important events such as Commencement. In regards to the project, the object is to \devise a program whose primary elements would be compatible, not only among themselves, but also with the history, character, arufpurpose of Union College,\ wrote Mammola in the aforemen- tioned committee report. The complex itself is referred to as a Campus Center to suggest a building in(!orporating the needs of the entire campus community, not just students. Continued the report, \The center is intended to provide a visible, unifying focus for the exciting intellectual, cultural and social stimuli which daily characterize and symbolize the Ce~:ntinued on page 3 \*>\ '1 : ..

' i I \' c .c .c 0 a:: Q) > ~ Vl >- .c .Q 0 .c c. CXUI, No. 16 Vice Presider:lt for Finance, Jonn Hauser, explains the po.ssi ble financial resources ior the Campus College Center Project. Alcohol Subject of Talk • •• York February 23, 1 984 Initial Plans Made For Carnegie Campus Center ByGAYLEROSENFELD News Editor In late 1982, the Board of Trustees authorized President John Morris to appoint a committee for the expressed purpose of designing a program for a Union College Campus Center. This group, known as The Program Planning Com- mittee, consists of ad- ministrators, faculty, and students. They are as follows: Dean of Students Joseph Mammola as chairman of the committee, Vice President for Finance John Hauser, Executive Associate to the President Jack Maranville, Director of Alumni Affairs Harry Demgen, Director of Campus Operations Jack Hill, Direct<:~r of Food Service Jan Gray, Professor of English Ruth Stevenson, Professor of Psychology Seth Greenberg, and Junior Steve Benson. Former Student Forum President Ilene Landress was also an original member of this committee until she graduated last spring. project's completion, if all goes well. The approved ar- chitectural firm will first survey the site, Andrew Car- negie Hall, this summer and should then have blueprints drawn up by the following fall. Then, the center will be put out for bid to obtain a contractor. In February of 1985, constructi()n should begin. A completion date is scheduled for September, 1986. Liability Addressed This committee met weekly for four and one half months from January to May of 1983. In June of that year, the group presented a report of its fin- dings to President Morris. According to Mammola, \The president, in turn, shared the report with the Board of Trustees at the board meeting in June and the board authorized the president to proceed to the next phase in planning.\ However, there are some problems with this February commencement date. First, snow and other winter con- ditions could affect con- struction. Also, Union holds classes until June so the long term inconvenience to the campus is escalated. Third, the relocation of services, and the like, now located in Carnegie could prove to be quite a problem. ByLORIOLnNENSTEIN Staff \Alcohol is a drug Literature refers to alcohol as 'the drug of choice' of kids on campus today . . . Alcohol is a sedative, slows down the ner- vous system . . . slows down your ability to react in an emergency situation, and also lowers your inhibitions, and that's where you guys have your problems. When the people at your parties have their inhibitions lowered, you wind up with problems.\ So stated Troy Attorney Charles Carletta, addressing the workshop on \Liability in Alcohol Related Cases,\ Wednesday night, February 15. Carletta, a law partner in the firm of Paterson, Sampson, Ginsburg and Griffen, PC, who represents both Russell Sage and RPI, spoke to the members of the IFC and the Panhellenic Council on the problems resulting from alcohol con- sumption at campus parties. In the time period from 1971- 1981, twenty-eight college students died from alcohol related problems, not including those killed from driving while intoxicated. Carletta began his talk by relating some of those incidents to the group. \The interest we have in this is, you people run an organization. The incidents I pointed out to you all result in some kind of litigation. A lawsuit like this is in your backyard every time you have a party.\ He went on to explain what happens in the case of such a lawsuit. \I'm a plaintiff's lawyer, that means I sue people. That's what I do for a living. I make my living on a percentage of what I get for the plaintiff ... Now, I may not get the right defendant, I might not sue the right (person) ... How do I overcome that\! I overcome that by suing everybody I can find, okay? So the kid in your fraternity house who gets hit in the eye with a beer can . . . this kid's got a lesion on the brain .. . DOA . . . What's the value of the life of a contemporary of yours right now . . . I've g()t a five million dollar case minimwn . . . I'm going to sue everybody I can find, becaus~ if I miss, I'm screwed. I'm g() ing after the fraternity. If yotJ.'r.e not incorporated, that means you're wide open, no protection. I'm going to sue your national. Who else? Who are your of- ficers'? Name 'em, I'm going to sue 'em. Who ran the event? Name him, I'm going to su~him. Bartenders . . . Rush chair- person or pledge master, sue him. Why? Because I don't know who I need, so I grab everybody, 'cause somebo!ly's going to pay.\' \'So you sit there and say to me, 'I ain't got the money.' You will have. I've got twenty years to collect from you. T-wenty years in the state of New Yor:k. I get ten percent of your salary, minimum, for twenty years. You buy a house, I get the house. You buy a car, I get the car. I get everything ... T-wenty years of that until I get my five million dollars. Who's losing? You're losing.\ Carletta went on to diseuss the risk of a house being witaout the protection of a corporation (there are currently only two houses at Union that are in- corporated), and even more so, of the risk of not being instued against lawsuits like the ~ne described. He urged the holi.Ses to phone their insurance agents and find out what kind and how much insurance they currently are receiving. Next discussed was the problem of serving alcohol to an individual who is under the New York State legal drinking ag.e.of nineteen. \The only person in the state of New York who can give alcohol to a minor, free from any kind of liability, is that child's parents ... Serve alcohol to a minor, you're individ!Ul!ly liable . . . Strict liability'? Absolutely. I don't even haveto prove negligence.\ In order to protect against this liability, Carletta suggested a number of methods which can be instituted. \If you have a technique that is used at t11e door, I can present that to tile jury. I can say 'These guys really gave it a shot. They tried to prevent this incident from happening. They had positive identification at the door . . . they served drinks by the glass only . . . they had a cadre of sober brothers who were corr'lmitted to working the party . . . ! \ ' More specific examples in- cluded the use of plastic wrist bands that don't come off easily (hand stamps are not really considered sufficient, since they are so easy to fake), and the one-cup system where a person is issued a cup and is only allowed to refill his drink if he has a cup. A third type of protection, and one which Carletta has used at Sage and says is highly ef- fective, is the hiring of off-duty police. \ (Hire) off-duty Schenectady cops to be your bouncers. Best insurance policy you can have ... When you hire an off-duty cop you get somebody who will stay sober ... Continued on page 3 Search for Architect . Last October, the board then authorized Morris to look for an architect for the building. \A search for the architect,'' added Mammola, \solicited interest from forty-five architectural firms.\ This list is being narrowed down, at present, and now stands at ten. Said Mam- mola, \We (the committee members) are confidentthat we can make a recommendation for an architect to the president by the April meeting of the Board of Trustees.\ Last January, the board instructed the president to research the financial cost for such a building and to report this in· formation at the April board meeting as well. Tentative Schedule Presently, Mammola has a tentative schedule for the On a side note, most students who are attending the College, at present, will not be here llp()n its completion. The entire project will be a sacrifice on the part of everyone, but the current students will not reap the benefits of the center. Also, construction does not make for a more attractive campus, especially during important events such as Conunencement. In regards to the project, the object is to \devise a program whose primary elements would be compatible, not only among themselves, but also with the history, character, and purpose of Union College,\ wrote Mammola in the aforemen- tioned committee report. The complex itself is referred to as a Campus Center to suggest a building incorporating the needs of the entire campus community, not just students. Continued the report, \The center is intended to provide a visible, unifying focus for the exciting intellectual, cultural and social stimuli which daily characterize and symbolize the Continued on page 3 I

Poge2 CONCORDIBNSIS, Februan· 21, 1984 Fresh Soviet Leadership Described by Sbevchenko >- .::.!. (/) c: E ro ::-i >- ... ... 10 ..J >- ..0 0 .... 0 .c: a. Arkady Shevchenko lectured on current issues confronting the U . .S. and the U.S.S.R.Iast Thursday evening. By MARCY ·BURSTJNER . Staff In Memorial Chapel last Thursday evening, several hundred people had the privilege of hearing former Under Secretary General of the United Nations Arkady Shevchenko state his views on such issues as Soviet foreign policy, the change in leadership because of the recent deaths of both Leonid Brezhnev and Yuri Aitdropov, the United States' invasion of Grenada, nuclear freeze and disarmament. talks, detente, as well as the .nature of the Soviet Politburo and. Soviet people, Shevchenko, at one time the top political advisor to Foreign Minister Gromyko, defected to the United States in 1.978 with the help of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). In his lecture, he des~ribed the Soviet leadership. Newly appointed Konstantln Cher· nenko was depicted as a ''rather. dull man\ who is ''not very innovative.'' When asked to improvements in ,relations do need to be made. As in the case of a detente relationship, he does not believe in the possibility of a nuclear (reeze. The Soviet government would never agree to any type of controls. He explalned that the ''Soviets can. hide nuclear warheads\ so that such arms would be undetectable. Forum Purpose Explained . speculate on whether the new leader would be more free to make changes than ·his pr~decessors, especially with regard to military deci!sions, Shevchenko seemed to believe that Chernenko will be, in fact, less independent than Andropov. '·'I do not exclude the possibility for change,\ the former ambassador stated. But \They need nuclear weapons and enormous military build up,'' he continued. \ . . .as a source of influence and con- trol.\ The U.S~S.R. does realize, however,. that in the ·Case of war and nuclear escalation, the c'hanee .()f .surviving, after destruction, is: . very questionable. If the Soviets decide to use military power in other parts of the world, he remarked~ \they prefer to do it by using their _very strong conventional weapons.\ The Student Forum is the student governing body at Union. It ·serves as a liaison between the student body \and ' the administration. • Not everyone is aware of its functions, For example, all decisions made at the student level must go through the forum. Also, all activities are funded through the forum. According to Forum President Win Thurlow, the most im- portant thing to realize about the forum is that it is here for the students. All meetings are held, on Monday evenings at ten o'clock, on the fourth floor of Carnegie, - and are open to everyone. Anyone with a complaint or a problem per- taining to any organization can attend the meeting and voice their opinions before the forum. When complaints are made, the forum creates a committee to deal with that particular problem. For example, if there is a problem with housing, the forwn creates a committee to investigate that area. Also, if someone wishes to form a new organization, that person must first go to the Committee on Committees the ·forum, where the final decision would be made. The members of this group are elected for one year terms, except the two student trustees, who are elected for two year terms. There are three representatives from each class, except the freshman class which has just two. There is also the vice president of administration, the vice president for finance,the junior and senior trustees, the Student Forum Winthrop Thurlow. :g' Interfraternity Council (IFC) ~ representative, the Academic u Affairs Council (1\AC) ~ representative, and the Student a Affairs Committee (SAC ro representative. There is one ';. non-voting member as well; .c from the Independent Student -E Coalition (ISC), and it is this .r:. member who ties Union with all a. the other independent colleges. Presi.dent, As it can be seen, the Student ( COC), which is a forum committee. The COC would guide the proposal on towards Forum is a powerful and im- portant organization, and. one which also welcomes the in,;, terest of the entire student body .. Waste Problems Cited . By LINDA RAFFAELE Staff The problem of toxic waste in the Capital District was the topic of discussion at last week's Wednesday meeting of \Environmental Issues of the 1980's.\ Speakers featured included: Dennis Wilson, Anne Rabe, and Tom Ellis. The Chairman of the Com- mittee for the Preservation of Natural Resources (CPNR), Dennis Wilson, spoke first. Wilson is also a ·member of the Toxics in Your · Community Coalition and the Citizens' Advisory Committee to the Gloversville-Johnson Joint Wastewater Treatment Plant. A citizen of Johnstown, which is located in Fulton County, Wilson spoke on the problems associated with the Johnstown Landfill. Originally, the landfill was used to dispose of both municipal and industrial wastes, However, in the late seventies, leachate con- tamination was discovered in the groundwater surrounding the landfill. The Committee for the Preservation of Natural Resources wrote letters to the Board of Supervisors of Johnstown, lobbied, and gathered fact sheets about the dangers that disposal of in- dustrial wastes posed to nearby residents. Consequently, in- dustrial waste was prohibited at the facility as of May 31, 1979. Wllson stresses. to others who want to take action against toxic waste in their towns the importance of getting the facts . \Our opposition was based on facts, not sentiment. That is why we were successful,\ he says. There is still a major concern about the landfill, however, for the site was used for the disposal of hazardous waste from 1947 to 1979. Included in this hazardous waste was wastewater treatment shidge from leather tanning and finishing, trimming and shavings from tanneries, and sludge from de-hairing. Now, leachate from the landfill is contaminating Matthew. Creek and private and municipal water supply wells, Last spring, the Department of Ecological Conservation (DEC) placed Johnsfown Landfill on the New York Superfund List for in- vestigation of potential hazardous waste problems. The firm which will investigate the problem is Ecological Analysts, of Middletown, New York. The next speaker was ·Anne Rabe. Rabe is the legislative assistant to Assemblyman Gottfried, a member of the Eastern New York Council on Occupation Safety and Health, and head of the TASK Force on Radioactive Material and Worker Health Committee. In addition, she has been an active member of Concerned Citizens About NL for four years. (:NL. was formerly the Multi- National Chemical Co.) Rabe began by saying that she has heard many -of the problems associated with· toxic waste through her work .in the field, and that \the horror stories that people have to tell are overwhelming. Toxic waste is really a crisis situation, and we need to respond to it.' ' So far, one of the biggest efforts made by the DEC has been the Mini..Superfund, which was formed to supplement the federal superfund in in- , vestigating inactive hazardous waste di~posal problems. The Mini~uperfund has not been very successful, though. The DEC expects to be able to raise only $2.6 million, putting the project in jeopardy. As for the federal superfund, it has a list of 895,000 priority sites, ~ one of which is the Johnstown Landfill. Its in- vestigations are limited, though, for it is designed to study only the environmental hazards of toxic waste, not the health hazards. The Depart- I\ ment of Health has allotted $750,000 for Phase I of. the program to examine the health aspects of toxic waste. Phase I will concentrate only on im- minent health hazards, such as Love Canal Third to speak was Tom Ellis, another member of Concerned CitiZens About NL, Ellis spoke on NL specifically. In recent years, NL has gone over DEC emission limits, In 1979, the , plant was shut down. It has since reoptmed and must now stay under the DEC limits. There has been a high. rate of cancer in the neighborhood where . NL waste has been dumped. ;'There are no maj&r differences (of opinion.) over serious issues in the Politburo • . . Cbemenko was the choice because there was no other choice.\ -Shevchenko \he is a transitional figure . • .not in the sense that he won't have any authority . . .but· limited in time of tenure • . .Death wili end his tenure,\ he declared. \It's the usual way.'' He was asked whether he saw in the future the possibility ,of a return to detente between the U.S. and the Soviet Union. The United States, he answered, would never be willing to go back to the type of relationship with the Soviet Union that took place in the 1970's. During that period, the United States realized that the Soviets became convinced that they were free to do as they wished without fear of American retaliation. Althoggh he ruled out detente, he does believe that In the Soviet Politburo, there is no procedure for the suc- cession of authority. Leaders are selected by a.small group of people. No records are kept of the Politburo meetings; the members meet in total secrecy and then pre\sent recom- mendations to. the Central Committee of the Communist Party. .. ''There no major ,.differences (of opinion) over. serious' issues ·m the Politburo , .. Chernenko was the choice because there was no other choice.\ Politburo members faced ·a situation in which they could give the power to a younger man or give it to someone who would not be too difficult to control. Chernenko, the oldest man to take power in the history of the Soviet Union will be the leader most con• trolled by tb.e Politburo. The members of the Politburo rUle collectively; therefore, it is · irrelevant whether Chei'nenko is in .good health 'Or like his two predecessors he becomes s~riously ill. Eventually, he explained, a new generation of leaders will have control of the Politburo. Once this happens, changes will be more easily affected. It will Continued on page 5 Tau Beta Pi Hon,orary Society ... . . Members Chosen On Friday, January 20, the New York Mu chapter of Tau Beta Pi held an induction ceremony and reception for twenty-eight new members. The initiation was held at Milano Lounge and was followed by a party at Mother Ferro's. The new members are: Patricia Allen, Mark Backhaus, Jill Breedlove, . Sarah Car- penter, Charles Caruso, Peter Chapman, Daniel Cornell, David Delay, Caroline Den- nison, Gary Gatica, Robert Hartmann, Stephen Hladik, Dennis Iloffman, Chris Hoople, Eric Katz, Eric Kerstman, Joan McKinstrie, Sarah McMahon, Dave Madden, James Parsons, Lisa Potter, Michael Scheut- zow, Bob Stelmack, Earl Stokes, Richelle Tartacower, Glenn Tessmer, Dave Tyburski, and Dave Ventura, Founded In 1885 For those who may be in- terested, Tau Beta Pi iS the. national engineering honor society. It was founded in 1885 to recogniZe engineering students of superior scholarship and outstanding character. To date, Tau· Beta Pi includes 185 collegiate chapters and has initiated more than 270,000 members over the years. Candidates for admission to Tau Beta Pi must be in the top eighth of the junior engfueering class or the top fifth of the senior engineering class. Candidates must also show exemplary character. Tau Beta Pi chapters conduct programs whi~h benefit their members, college, and community. (By the way, EIT review sessions will :begin late in winter term.) Officers at Union include: President Joe Rocco, Vice President Kyle Welch, Secretary Donna Kowalchik, Treasurer Debi Robitaille. The chief advisor is Professor Jewell of the civil engineering department. Other senior members are . Dave Carrier, Chris Del Signore, Pete J arne son, ·Karl Reer, Lisa Scheuer, and J.im Steenburgh. 1: i s Jo fl} ~p m 0 m (( tr~ pr aJ1 eli . ' . ' wl rn dE as re PI re is tl! su ai1 se wl dE w; D a~ sp p Sl 'l'l bl fr dl 'W' lo ot VI cl lo F1 co st· 75 ht th WI pr ar at isl WI at J~ e~ sc pr pr he ' cu \' a b a It Sl tt tt Fl Sl pi (jj OJ tt 'W n tl ir tl r~ {!I \

. CONCORDIENSJS, Febr11ary 23, 1984 SWTC Still Debated ~ • • Testimony Delivered By DOU<tLANDON In a meeting led by President .JohnS. Morris on February 14, members of the facility ha.d the opportunity to hear testimony on the SpJit Winter Term Calendar (SWTC). The Com~ mittee on Union Education ( CUE) proposed the ·con~ troversial SWTC last term. new\ has taken place since that article was published, and. the conflicts still exist. \It .is the calendar problem in Ew-ope that creates our problem,\ he said~ Lewis, Robert Baker, associate professor of philosophy, ad· vocated that Union \try the nine week winter term once~• to determine its benefits and disadvantages. Page3 - Thomas D'Andrea, vice president for academic affairs and a member of CUE., initiated discussion on the proposal on which he said the ad- ministration will make a decision this spring.. He then asked for a summary of student. reaction from Student Forum President ·Win Th11rlow, who reported that student sentiment is mix:ed. Thurlow :pointed out tliat an earlier beginnfng of SUJillller vacation may indeed aid some . students in their searches for summer jobs, while at the .sam:e time hin- dering those whose employers want them t9 work past Labor Day. Referring :to the January 26 article, Barbara Markiewicz, assistant professor of psychology, asked why the Spanish program could not conti.Ilue · in the winter term, sitilply because the Spanish schools take a two week vacation during the term. The two weeks would provide an excellent oppc>rtUflity to travel in Europe, she.said, but Thomas explained that the additional expense coul<l prove prohibitive to some students. Morris, who had hoped to conduct a straw poll ·Of the faculty on the original SWTC proposal,. decided to postpone this measure because alter~ natives were then being con- sidered and several faculty members had already left the meeting. Professor Huntley of the psychology department. speaks on the Split Term proposal. Center Report Submitted Contmued from p~ge 1 relationship to a campus center. 'life of the College.\' With .an all~male schODl, C. William Huntley, professor of psychology, questioned D'Andrea's implication that the final decision on the SWTC will be made by the administration. D'Andrea then confirmed his earlier statements, to Which Huntley commented, \I'm quite surprised. It would be the first -time in fifty years~ that a calendar change would not be made by the faculty.'' Huntley received an ovation from the approximately 150 faculty members in attendance. ~ssisted by MiChael Rudden fraternities were the social of the architectural firm of centers of the campus. Saratoga Associates, the However, with women and so committee comprised a .report few sororities, the College that would, it is hoped, maintain believes it must \rethinlt ;the the basic structure of Carnegie, spaces that we have,\ said but improve its usefulness. Mammola. According to the repOrt, \The Also, the center should have a vertical 'direction' of the ina positiveimpactforthe College's terior (of Carnegie), together future, believes Mammola. He said some students are apprehensive toward the idea of splitting the winter term. Presently, students often have substantial work loads over the 'Thanksgiving break, followed by a Christmas vacaticm free from assignments. Some uri- dergraduates believe they \Vould \gain a Thanksgiving but lose a ChriStmas,\ Thurlow observed, indicating that the winter break. might be characterized by heavy work loads under the SWTC. with the undistinguished · \Five or six years down the collection of various spaces • road, the College will be much within, does not provide an stronger\ as a result of this attractive, unifying focus for center. \It shows an interest on either students, faculty, or the part of the College,\ added staff. The building in its present Mammola. It's a \building we Huntley later said, \I've been here for (many) calendar changes, and the decisions have always been ·made by the faculty.\ state Simply does not work as a can be proud of.\ real center. Over the last six: months,. a The College needs space for few of the committee members activities, a bookstore, a have visited various local campus store, a dining hall, colleges with campus centers to offices and the like. A campus observe first hand what factors Jan Ludwig, chairman of the philosophy department, ·suggested a method by which the spring break could be lengthened without altering the entire calendar. The winter term coUld ·be. shortened to ·nine weeks of classes, followed J;>y exams, while the fall and spring center could and should provide enter into such projects. Among these areas, believes the those schools toured were coiillllittee. Wesleyan, Vassar, Bucknell, Last month, the Student Forum and the elections conunittee conducted an all- student poll in the SWTC, and 751 students responded. Three hundred and sixty n~e favored the SWTC, 350 opposed it, and 32 were undecided. · · In essence, The Program Vilanova, SUNY New Paltz, Planning Committee is at- SUNY Potsdam, and SUNY tempting to unity the College Plattsburgh. William Thomas, associate professor of modern languages and director of the terms abroad progr~, addressed the issue of incompatibility bet- ween the SWTC and terms abroad. As reported in the January 26 edition of Con- eordiensis, Thomas foresees scheduling and housing problems with several of the prpgrams, primarily the two held in England. · He reported that ''nothing -schedules remain the same, he said. Bradley Lewis, assistant professor of economics, in· dicated approval of Ludwig's proposal, and further suggested that the deadline for winter term grades could beset for late in the first week of the then two week break. This would allow professors to conduct labs and accept final papers for up to a full week after exams if they so desire, and students would still have the full ten weeks in which to c<>mplete their papers, Lewis added. In agreeing with Ludwig and under one roof. \We (the campus community) need a college center whose intrinsic plan provides a coherent symbol for our broader pur- poses at a college where our intellectual and cultural aspirations meet, unbounded by · the classroom, as is presently the· case in the existing Car- negie facility,\ reads the committee report. As to the necessity, said Mammola, \the need has always been there. We're at .a point in the College's history where we can afford it,\ as well. Mammola also made_ an in- terestingpoint about the impact of women at Union in '~A Closed Society Here\ Continue~ from page 1 . · you get somebody in uniform cer:tain ·standards you have to you're charging or not charging -who· is not gonna bother abide by . . . When you break · . . . (If the person is not un- ~nybody unless it gets out of (these standards), that's derage, and you're not band, 'cause you're paying him negligence,!' said Carletta. chargfu.g). I\ve got to prove and he wants to come back . . . what, in the law, we call It's nothing more than a ' 'probable cause' ... I've got to sedative effect.\ prove that the injury ill some Another factor that will lessen way had a casual relationship the liabillty is the type of party with the 'alcohol that was that is given. A cl<>sed party conswned.\ reduces the risk since alcohol is The visibly inti>x:icated person served only to friends. A closed is another problem. Carletta's party is one for the membership advice is to \cut them off. If you <if the house only, and maybe serve somebody at your house c:me invited guest per member. who is already illtoxicated, then After this, the discussion you pick up a relationship turned to the liability involved between you and the person you when alcohol is sold or ad- The Dram Shop Act involves serve and possibly between you mission to a party is paid, and the selling of alcohol. It gives a and the person who's injured by the liability when the person personal liability for the actions the person you serve.\ involved in an· incident is over of anybody, regardless of age, if Various other problems and the age ·of nineteen. This they have been sold liquor by possible solutions were required a definition of the that person. If no fee is charged,· discussed. Carletta could not concept of negligence. the alcohol provider is not liable really offer any .cut and dry 'cNegligence is a breech of duty. (at this speCific level) unless solutions, however. His main In order to have ~ duty you've the recipient is underage. advice consisted of making sure got to have some kind of legal However, stated Carletta, that insuranc.e coverage is J:elationship between people . . . c'there's another whole level of adequate and simply doing ones You have a :legal relationship liability, and that's what's best not to serve minors. \You between people when you have called common law negligence. have something of a closed a guest in your house. You have You just pick up differentlevels society here. It seems to me if a legal relationship between depending on whether you have you all develop a party people when you sell someone a public party or a private procedure that is · roughly something •.. When you pick up party; whether the petson is ~ommon, yo'li'U -respect each a legal relationship you pick ~P under~g~ ot: $J'Verage,. wbether other's party procedure.\ .- A ·Final Concern A final concern here is to preserve the heritage of the College. Commencing with entrepreneur Andrew Car- negie's donation for his namesake building, . carnegie Hallllas been a symbol for the College. It has seen many students come and go and has watched the passage of time with a strong steadfastness. \Architecturally coherent with the rest of the campus,\ said Mammola, it is a central factor of the campus and will be preseryed while making it useful,for years to come. .As to cost. Vice President for Finance John Hauser threw out a ball park figure of from six to seven million dollars for the project. Most probably, the money will arise from the New York State Dormitl>ry Authority in the form of a loan. This source is not definite, said Hauser, but is quite viable. The reason for using the dormitory authority is that the interest on the loan is non- taxable. The loan .itseif is taxable, of course, but the in- terest rate is lower than that of loans from various other sources. At present,. this in- terest rate stands at about nine to ten and one half percent, but this rate may change by the time the College actually requests it. · Finalized plans for the center will not be drawn up until ar- chitects enter the scene, but with the committee's report, the spaces desired have been ex- pressed. The criteria for selection amongst the various options that could have been pursued for the center was set forth in the committee report. \Each item on the list (of options) was evaluated in tenns of level of activity that it generated; the degree by which this activity could not function elsewhere on campus; com· patability with the desire to create a facility that serves all members of the College Community; square footages and other economic con- siderations; and,. the potential of the activity to be better served ill foreseeable projects elsewhere on campus.\ Each element ofthe proposed center was given a priority level. The proposed options with the highest priorities. were then selected. These elements were then subcategorized into seven groups. These designated areas are as follows: administration, such as the dean's office; assigned, like WRUC space; reservable, areas that would serve multiple purposes such as cabaret room-lounge; social, for example a gameroom; food service, a three hundred seat upperclassmen dining hall; support, day-to-day facilities like a bookstore, campus store, and a single college mail ser- vice; and a miscellaneous category, such as storage space and a loading dock. The proposed area allocatic;~ns for the campus center read like a shopping list. They include a reception-information counter; a center director's office, a new administrative position to be established for the operation of the center; a dean of student's office; a coordinator of student activities' office; WRUC space; student publications' space; multiuse areas; conference rooms; a cabaret lounge; reservable space;. a music- listening-reading spot; a game room; exterior terraces facing Jackson's Gardens; a main street with alleyways con .. necting these areas and serving asinformation-r1reas on evenlS; a commons which will represent the heart of the center; a main dining hall; a pub-restaurant with a one hundred and fifty seating capacity; food service offices; a college mail service; · a bookstore and offices; and retail services, such as a minimart. Obviously, staff personnel tied with these offices will also be included. This list is not complete as written here, but dQes suggest the thought and effort employed in this plan by its creators. Carnegie undoubtedly will not be able to house all these facilities so some annexations to the original structure may ep.sue. The mechanical engineering ,laboratory behind Carnegie will have its facilities relocated and then be tom down. The centet· will be built northward toward the garden border, without intruding on the garden itself. Access roads to Carnegie will also be rerouted. The Campus Center should prove to be quite an un- dertaking, but the ad- ministration seems to be ready for the challenge. \I think,\ said Mammola, uit will be the kind of building that will allow us to do different things than we do right now.\ It will uunify the College, unify its history, and unify all (the College's) dif- ferent groups.\

Page4 CONCORD/ENSIS, Februarr ]J, 1984 ' CoC Functions WeD til c: .0 .0 0 'Ck: Q) > ~ V) >- .0 0 - 0 .c: Q. By AARON TOFFLER Staff The Committee on Com- mittees (COC) is an important group at Union yet it is not very well known by the student body. A seemingly redundant and ambiguous title such as the COC would seem to suggest an equally ambiguous function. However, nothing could be farther from the truth. If a student is contemplating joining Facilities Coordinator Diane Winkler · a club or committee or even starting a new one, the Com- mittee on Committees is something to know about. Telephones Ring . By SARAH CALDERINI Staff The members of the college phone committee have been officially announced and the process of detennining what to do with Unjon's phone system is underway. the committee. The faculty will also be represented by two members • .,. Professors Thomas Kershner of the economics department and Theodore Schwarz of the electrical engineering depart- ment will complete the well- rounded group. The first meeting is this week. Headed by Chairperson Jared Squires, vice president 'for administration, the ·coc is. a five-person group with rnucb- clout. The comnlittee consists. of three r~presentatives; one from each class, and one member~ chosen from the student body at large. These members are senior representative James Parsons, junior representative S11san Brand, sophomore representative Eric Colsman and junior Gayle Rosenfeld. These five people are respan- sible for \overseeing the con- stittitional and administrative aspects of all student clu&, ,, .. said Squires. The COC is ultimately responsible for the activity of student groups. To. start a new club, a constitution must be approved by the COC and be recommended to the Student Forum. Also, the COC. appoints all student members of student- faculty committees, such as the Student Affairs Committee, and student-college committees, such as the Concert Committee. Members of these conunittees are chosen \anonymollSlY on the quality of the student's application,'' said Squires. The COC is also responsible for \interviewing candidates- for chairperson positions.'' Five Major Functioils Squires professes five major functions of the COC: · 1) making sure ·that the constitution of a club is revised and reapproved every three years. 2) to oversee and recommend proposed changes in con- stitutions. 3) to determine .fairness ·Of an election in a committee. 4) to determine to what extent a .group is active and to take action to insure that the club is actively seeking membership. (If a club Is inactive for one year, It loses · status as a recognized Student Forum club.) 5) to be the voice of the students. (If a student is- unhappy with a club's setup or ·constitution, the COC represents that student. ) This year; the COC is un- dergoing the biggest revamping · of the committee in years. It is revising its own set of by-laws. The purpose of these changes is to ''strengthen the criteria necessary for a student club to receive funding,\ said. Squires. The only previous criteria was that the club was not political or reiigious in nature. New regulations will require a greater commitment on the part of groups in order to obtain funding. As an ·organization, the Committee on Committees is dedicated to excellence. It is this commitment that makes this group work. The persons serving on the committee include Vice President for Finance John Hauser, Facilities-Telephone Coordinator Dianne Winkler and Director of Computer Services Wayne Holt. Other staff members of the committee are Head of Residence Life Dave Wood, Director of Campus Operations Jack Hill, and Director of Development Gordon Decker. Dorothy Ross of the library staff will also be serving on the committee. A telecommunications service out of New York City has been hired to guide and assist the committee in making a decision. \The service has had - extensive experience in con· suiting other colleges in similar situations,'' said Winkler; Once progress has been made, the committee hopes to set up group meetings on campus to evaluate the dif- ferent possibilities. \At that time,\ says Winkler, \we'll get everyone acquainted with what we're trying to accomplish.\ Students Hope to Invest Two students, Senior Ben Heckscher and Junior Diaime Pavacic, have been named to Under present formation is the Union College Investment Alliance. The club, conceived and founded by Junior Russ Fein, will be a registered partnership which will run a mutual fund comprised of its members own monetary in- CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS '- Case Study Discussed Dr. Alden Haffner, associate chancellor for health sciences State University of New York' will discuss the \Development of Queens Clinical Campus: A Case Study\ today, Thursday Feb. 23, at Union. ' The talk, an Administrative and En5ineering Systems Colloquium sponsored by the Institute of Administration and Management; will begin at 3:45 p.m. in Bailey Hall Room 312. The public is invited to attend. Glee Club Concert The Union Men's Glee Club and the Regis College Women's Glee Club will present a concert at Union Saturday, Feb. 25, at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. General admission for the concert is $2, free with Union identification. Works by Antoine Brumel, Franz Bibel, Edward Elgar and R. Vaughan Williams will be performed, as well as Mozart's \Te Deum.\ Applicants for Admission 'Approximately 35 selected applicants for admission to Union have been invited to spend Feb. 26 and 27 on campus to become bette.r acquainted with the College. . The program, in its ninth year, is co-sponsored by Phi Beta Kappa and the Admissions Office. Visiting students will be hosted by current Union students. On Sunday they will attend a faculty-student-alumni panel, a social hour and dinner with faculty and staff and a cabaret featuring student pre.sentations and en- tertainment. The guests will attend classes Monday morning followed by a luncheon, and will have the afternoon free to explore the campus. Hamlet to Be Peiformed The Union Arts Department will present Shakespeare's Hamlet beginning Feb. 24, under the direction of Barry Smith, associate professor .of drama. Performances are scheduled for Feb. 24, 25, 28 and 29 and March 1-3, begmning at 8 p.m. in the Nott Memorial. Tickets are $3 and will be available at the Nott Memorial Box Office beginning Feb. 20. Box office hours are 1 : 30 to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. American University Washington Semester Program for Fall 19 84 Informational Meeting Monday, Feb. 27th • 12:30 p.m. 55115 The Washington Semester (not to be confused with Union's Spring Term Program in Washington) permits up to three Union College students to attend American University and participate in government internships. Contact Prof. Tidmarch (55215) for additional information and application forms. terests. Its purpose will be to provide members with a working knowledge of the stock market and other financial mediwns through a firm's In- vestment and research ac- tivities. This organization would be the only one of its kind; a legal New York State registered partnership, run exchisivefy by Union students .. In doing so, -its members would gain ex- perience and insight into in- vesting activities through hands-on investing, as well as obtaining a working knowledge of the running of a company. Financial World The founding members, Eric Kaye, Michael Kozub, Andrew Arthur, Eric Krause, Marc Samwick, and Russ Fein, believe such an opportunity will . be of invaluable importance to its members because it will give them actual experience and interaction with the financhll world. This type of education cannot, according to its members, be achieved within the confines of the classroom. Alniost everyone, with some available money, invests it in some manner, be it a savings bank, an IRA, in the stock market, or some other in- vestment vehicle. This club will enable its members to learn about investing now, which it is hoped will prove advantageous farther down the road when their own personal investing becomes an item of paramount importance. A mutual fund is the pooling of resources, knowledge, arid capital into one body. Such an organization is now under formation and .it will be entirely funded, organized, and run by undergraduates on campus. Each of the members will become limited partners and will be responsible for par- ticipating in research and voting on all .of the club's ac- tions. The club is asking all of its members to invest between $IDO and $H)OO, which will then be pooled under the club's name and provide for the working capital. The actual investing and running of the com:pany is dependent on this source of income, but for students unable to make a financial investment, a section ·of the club will he designed so as to include them. Hence, any student at Union is invited to join and participate. The ultimate goals of the club are for its members to learn through experience, make important personal contacts which may prove· helpful later in life, and to realize a return on an investment. The club wHI be partially structured and advised by the Foundation for Educational Investing, a national student organization interested in helping such clubs get started on campuses nationwide. It will also be advised by various faculty members who have experience and interests in the financial world, as well as local alumni actually working in the investment field. So, although the company will be run en- tirely by students, it will have a strong backing foundation. The six: founding students are presently attempting to have its charter approved by the ~omrnittee on Co:rpmittees and, m turn, Student Forum. If approved, the alliance will seek funding so as to maximize its research capabilities, as well as possibly fund speakers and related trips. From previous organizational meetings, its founders envision the club initially to have between 25 and 30 members, and $10,000 in net assets. This would be optimal, the group believf;ls, for· a diversified, easily managed investment portfolio for the club. Hands~n Experience The club will be designed to give as much actual hands-on experience· as possible and is the ideal opportunity to learn more about the investment world. It will be structured so that even those students with no previous knowledge will be able to learn and benefit. For more · infonnation contact: Russ Fein (377-(1820), or Eric Kaye (372- 6861 ), and attend the meeting tonight; February 23, at 8;00 p.m. in Conference Room A (third floor Carnegie).· · ( J W< G af PE di pl V< w w m la w u w w a1 e1 di la pl rE g~ PI t\ tl ol rv. u II oJ r: w II fJ t: Il tl \ 1~ . s· a

CONCORDJENSIS, February 23, 1984 . ' ' Page5 Group's Funding Debated By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Features Editor \You must understand that we are .. a Women's SuppOrt Group. We discuss issues that affect women. We operate on a personal level. Our group is different in that we provide a place where women can go to voice their opinions about being women at Union ... ;.\ stated Women's Support Group member Marcy Wilder at . the last Student Forum meeting in which the issue of funding ofthe Uilion Women's .SuppOrt Gro11p was discussed. The meeting was cha1!acterized by full forum attendance. Sever-al topics wer.e examined. The meeting began with the distribution of the minutes from last week's meeting and the presentation of committee reports. · First to be heard from was Academic · Affairs Counci·l Representative (AAC) Jamie Danziger. At its last meeting the AAC voted down the creation of a new ci.vil engineering course, Ethics & Professionalism. Tb,e ACC is also working on a motion which suggested tbat Union be firmly committed to improving writing skills. This concern foJ;' ex~ pository qua·lity .should 'be reflected in all aspects of student work. The .standards of \expository proficiency\ were going to be left. up to the professors, however, Union Financing Melissa Viglielmo, one· of the two $udent trllStees, reported that she, Shari Midoneck {the other trustee) and President Morris met last week to discuss Union's financing. At thiS meeting, he dispelled the \myth of tuition increases\; Union raises its tuition not to ''keep up with the Joneses,\ but for other, more .practical reasons. Jacques Simon, a junior class representative, reported that at its last meeting, the Student Affairs Council (SAC) con- tinued to discuss the issue of violence on campus and methods of dealing with this pressing problem. In a separate issue, a suggestion was made to schedule more alcohol-free activities after 11 p.m. Joe Bogan, the inter- fraternity co11ncil represen- tative ( IFC) announced that the IFC will be holding its Swim-a- thon this Sunday, February 26. \We hope to raise $2,000 for leukemia research. Your . . support will be appreciated,\ he add,ed. The Independent Student Coalition (ISC) representative, Steve Benson, reported that this weekend the ISC will be holding its general assembly meeting in New York City. Also, the Union TAP parity lobby day is scheduled for March 6. Chainnan of the Committee on Committees, Jared Squires, announced that \the first draft of the COC by-laws have been completed with 90 percent of the credit goin~ to Jim Parsons for his efforts. ' These by-laws will be revised and voted on this Thursday, Feb. 23. They will then be submitted for the forum's approval at the next forum meeting. The COC will also be considering new con- stitutions now with the com- pletionDf its three-week freeze. Lastly, the COC was going to submit its rec()illmendation for the second Skellar. Board position, the vote of approval to be taken in a closed forum ,session. Ben IJeckscher, vice president'for .finance, presented the ·report of the Finance . Committee. An additional funding request was m~de hy the Stone Boat Club for $11)~. A motion was made to the for,um for approval' of the funds. The motiDn passed unanimously. Changes in the Finance Committee by-laws_ were an- nounced, making the by~laws ready to be presented to the forum for approval. A ID~;Jtion was made to approve the by- · laws. A following motion was then made to table the i£sue until ne:xt week. which W()uld give the forum· members suf- ficient time to examine the by- laws themselves. The motion to table passed unanimotlsly. Lastly, the Finance Committee discussed the ambiguous area of fund raising guidelines. Further investigation of. this issue is to take piace. The •conversation shifted to \Old Business\; specificially the question of funding for the Union Women's Support Group. Two forum members, Shari Midone<;:k and ·Barbara RQgers, attended one of the gJ:1oup's meetings (with a facilitator present) and expressed their opinions of funding. Midoneck spoke first, stating, \ . . . the group was very wor- thwhile. I just don't know if the forum sbould give funding for a group that needs an e>utside force to runit. The facilitator is not a student,. but an outside member. We don 7 t give the dance club a choreographer .. . \ Barbara Rogers confirmed her views, adding, \The .group can be run without the facilitat()r.\ A question was then raised as to the specific role of the group. Midoneck again responded, \The group provides feedback. Because not all of the mem.bers are well known to each other, they can give open, honest, objective feedback; support as well!' rt was at this point that Marcy Wilder, a group mem- ber, voiced her opinion. (See opening statement of story). Jared SqUires alleviated the ''myth of outside help for groups,\ commenting, \To my knowledge, Arts Club, .Moun- tebanks, Dance Club, as well as the Glee Clubs receive outside help.'' Ben Heckscher added, ''These aforementioned groups, unlike the support group, can survive without outside assistance.\ · Theresa Shank, also a member of tile support group said, • 'It' seems that you (members of the forum) are all differentiating between giving a club a thing versus a person. Other e!lubs. ask for things to help them run their organizations better. We are asking for a person. I tbink if we asked for material things the nature of the problem would change~\ Discussion continued between both sides with Melissa Viglielmo bringing up the point of consistency. ''We (the forum) fund ()ther organizations. {f we refused to fund the supp()rt group, and set a precedent, then TOMPAVLIN. A well known poet from Ireland Speaks (!t Union Wed., Feb. 29 • 8 p.m. Humanities Lounge Sponsored by Idol, Eng. Dept. and Poets & Writers, Inc. we must be consistent with our other organizations.\ other points were brought up concerning the size of the group, previous funding from the past, and the. fact of its \closed\ nature. Finally, discussion ended with a vote taken. The motion passed: 8Y-7N- 2 Abstaining. With,rioother.issuesto discuss, · the forum entered into closed session for approval of the COC Skellar Board recom- mendation. Vice President for Firrance, Ben Heckscher, presents funding repor·t to Student Forum. Woman atfacked • • • . . . . Secur•ty Questioned This past weekend a female student was attacked on the campus grounds. Because of the extremely serious nature of such an incident, the dean of students has issued the following statement to Con· cordiensis: \Last Saturday evening, February 18, at approximately 9:30p.m., a woman student was accosted by an unidentified man while walking between Richmond and Fo:x Residence Halls. The man was described as being approximately six feet tall, twenty•five year~ of age or older, medium b11ild, and wearing ·a black ski mask, gloves, and a blue or black waist-length coat. . The man displayed a knife .and asked the student tQ give hiih any- money in her possession. When told that she had no money, the man forced her at knife-point to go back with him past North College, entering Jackson's Garden between Bronner House and Maxcy House. While in the Garden, the man threatened to rape the woman and assaulted her by forcing her to the.ground. She was able to resist the attack and convince the attacker not to proceed further. At this point, the man fled and the woman returned to her residence hall where her friends called campus security, who responded immediately, togetber with officers of the Schenectady Police Depart- ment. The student was offered medical assistance, including transportation to Ellis Hospital, but did not require hospitalization. An in- vestigation of the incident is being conducted by campus security and the Schenectady Police Department. \Anyone having further in- formation concerning this in- cident is asked to contact Mr. Clifford Wood, Director of Security and Safety.\ Early on Monday morning Dean ·of Students Joseph Mammola contacted Con- cordiensis for the purpose of informing the student body that such an incident had happened. He stated, \All of us have to be reminded . . . all of us are reminded of the need to be safety conscious. In particular we encourage women, if they have to go out at night, to. go with another person and to avoid walking and jogging in areas of the campus or the surrounding area that might isolate them · from other people.\ In addition he felt it important to remind·. students that dor- mitory doors must be kept locked. \When students see people on campus who appear to be intruders or do not appear to belong on campus and who might be acting suspiciously, they should report it to security who are prepared to respond to all such reports,\ the dean stressed. · \We encourage students who have suggestions for improving the lighting of any area on campus or who might have other precautionary security recommendations to contact Mr. Wood (director of campus security) \or· the dean of students,\ he added. At the present time, the identity of the assailant is not known. The general belief for the time being is that the at- tacker was someone from outside of the campus. The dean noted that people walking back and forth from Nott Street to Union Street Dften walk through the College and may therefore be qUite familiar with the campus. The dean believes that despite what has happened present security precautions are adequate to keep the campus relatively safe. He pointed out that security patrols do make sure the buildings are secured. Students do, however, leave the buildings unlocked making them unsafe. As of last Monday night all residence advisors have been informed of the incident and were urged· to review it with students on their halls. It is not possible, Mammola claimed, to take measures to prevent all such incidents from occurring. \The campus remains a safe place, but it is not utopia,\ he explained. \Women are vulnerable in any place in our society as well as our campus. We need to be safety con- scious.\ He urged students \not to be paranoid but to be alert.\ When going outside, individuals should let others know where . they are and where the}': are going. Director of Security and Safety Clifford Wood could not be reached for comment at this present time. . ' Shevchenko Lectures Continued from page 2 take a long tiine, however, for this to- happen. What occurs in the near future will prove to be very important with regard to Soviet• American relations. A warming of relations depends Qn who the next president of the United Stateswill be. \To say that they do not like Reagan would be an understatement,\ he said. Sports and Polities When asked about President Carter's decision to boycott the 1980 Olympics in Moscow, he replied that it was the ~ong thing to do. Sports, in his opinion, should not be mixed with. politics. Someone then asked how America should have shown its displeasure towards the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. \You cannot stop them,\ he answered, \even if they decide to invade Poland.\ The only way,'he continued,. is to maintain strength, presumably militarily and economically. \Grenada was a very good signal/' he feels, and should not be compared to the Soviet aggression in Afghanistan. In Grenada, the.· American marines were, in effect, rescuing the people of Grenada and not just American citizens. The majority of the people there want the marines to stay even though they are now being with-· drawn. The Soviets; on the other hand, invade another country' not as a rescue operation, but to impose their own rule. There has been no sign, he remarked, that they will ever be with- drawn from Afghanistan, even though it is obviously against the will of the people there. The motive in. Afghanistan, Shevchenko explained; was a fear that the communist regime was collapsing combined with a fear of increased influence of the Chinese government. It was not so much an expansionist move, as an attempt to main- tain the security of the buffer zone, under which category · Afghanistan falls. . With regard to Sino-soviet relations, Shevchenko agreed that an improvement in relations is possible in the near future because of the pragmatic nature of the new Chinese government. The government in Beijing, at the present time, is \very shrewd\ and will want to impr()ve relations with the U.S.S.R. and the U.S. at the same time. In addition, much of the equipment that China had obtained from the Soviet Union .in the past has, or is, becoming obsolete in the face of an ever developing technological world. The Chinese govermnent may soon want to renew negotiations in its goal of modernizing China. Decision to Defect Shevchenko has been an American citizen for the past six years. He explained to the audience that he has not .regretted his decision to defect. ul found that I am free,\ he said. \The American govern- ment doesn't dictate to me anything .. .I can speak freely, I can share my knowledge with the American government and public audiences.\ \The Soviets call me a traitor. All right, let them call me what they wish.\

Pag~6 CONCORDIENSIS, February 23. )984 FEATUR-ES Askew: Dark Horse Winner By DAVID HANIFIN (Editor's Note: This is the first in a series of Campaign '84 articles written by members of the College Young Democrats. In coming issues Of Con- cordiensis, articles will be written on the other Democratic Presidential Contenders. ) Perhaps yoa have heard the names Walter Mondale, John Glenn, or Jesse Jackson as contenders for the Democratic nomination to the presidency of the United States. Maybe tbe name Reubin Askew rings a vague bell as someone you've heard mentioned on the news. Well, Reabin O'Donovan Askew too is a Democratic candidate for the presidency in 1984. Although considered an un- derdog and not well known nationally, Askew is a man who is confident that he will be a serious contender for the nomination at the July Democratic nationaLconvention in San Francisco. Reubin Askew announced his candidacy on February 23, 1982. He is a man known for taking chances and choosing an- popular stands. But, Askew feels that this is an asset and claims that voters in 1984 will be attracted to a candidate who is not afraid to stand out from the crowd. He has separated himself from his rivals by taking contrasting opinions on such key issues as abortion, trade, the mtclear freeze, grain embargoes, labor laws and immigration reform. When asked if he. stands a chance of being elected, Askew replies affirmatively along with the following scenario. Askew makes a respectable showing in the February 20 Iowa caucuses since he has been campaigning there for the last two years. He then finishes even higher a week later in the New Hampshire primary. Next comes an Askew publicity blitz before the March 13 \Super Tuesday\ when 10 states in- cluding Florida and three other Southern states have their primaries. His showing then makes him a serious dark horse contender and he goes on to overtake his opponents before the national convention. This plan may seem like a long shot, but Askew believes in it and has held back most of the 1.3 million dollars he has raised so as. to use it during the primaries. Askew is used to being a long shot candidate. None of the experts gave him a chance to win a seat in the Florida Senate in 1962, but he won. When he decided to run for Florida governor in 1970, ex- perts didn't even include him in the polls with three other Democrats, but Askew went on to win his party's nomination in a run-off followed by a victory over the incumbent Republican governor. Askew then served as governor of Florida for a second tenn and gained a reputation as the best of the \New South's\ progressive governors. As for his stands on the issues, Askew tends not to follow the common Democratic moves. On taxes, Askew feels that there should be .a repeal of the third personal income tax cut along with consideration of repealing the supply side tax: cuts of the Reagan program. Regarding the nuclear freeze, Askew feels that it is an appealing idea, but that the simplicity of the freeze cannot be reconciled with the comple~ity of maintaining a stable balance of nuclear power that· wiU assure continued deterrence. On Central America, Askew disagrees with our carrent militaristic course in Central America, but he supports continued aid to El Salvador, so long as there are improvements in civil rights. In terms of defense policy, Askew would· cancel the B-1 bomber, put cruise missiles on our B-52's and speed up work on the Stealth bombers. He woUld not deploy MX missiles in favor of a smaller, cheaper, land~based alternative. Askew's stand on education is that we must not only keep but strengthen the Federal Dept. of Education. He feels that. we should resist providing tax credits for parents who send their children to private schools as this undermines the foun- dation of the public school system. Finally on abortion Askew is in favor of a Constitutional amendment that would overrule the 1973 Supreme Court decision which legalized abortion. Some brief facts on Reubin Askew are' as follows: Askew and his family moved from Oklahoma to Florida when he was in the fourth grade. Upon high school graduation in 1946, he enli.sted in the Army for two years. Askew then enrolled in Florida State Univ. majoring in public administration. After graduation, Askew was called to active duty during the Korean War. He served in the Air Force for two· years as an aerial photo-interpretation officer in Europe. He then returned to his . studies and received a law ·degree from the Univ. of Florida. Askew was elected to the Florida legislature in 1958 beginning his political career. He served on the Florida Senate and became governor as previously men• tioned. Askew was called to run for President in 1976, but refused opening the door for Jimmy Carter. During the Carter presidency Askew was persuaded to take the position of U.S. trade representative. He feels this was a valuable ex- perience by giving him a practical look at trade matters plus an opport~~nity to travel abroad. At 55 years of age Reubin Askew is considered to be in overall excellent health. He enjoys playing tennis and jogging but limits himself to calisthenics during the hectic campaign. He :ttas been married to the former Donna Lou Harper for the past 27 years. The Askews have two adopted children, Kevin, 20, and Angela, 22. Askew is a devottt Presbyterian who opposes a constitutional amendment permitting prayer in public schools becaUse he believes the government has no business in prayer. ln the Feb. 13, 1984 issue of Newsweek, part of Askew's winning scenario is seen as possibly coming true. It is predicted that Askew may show signs of increased support in the early primaries. As the only Democratic candidate opposed to both the nuclear freeze and abortion, Askew is winning votes among many con- servative Democrats. Maybe history is repeating itself and Askew's long shot v.ictory scenario is not so far .off the mark. Only time will tell if Reubin Askew will once again Ill go from underdog to dark horse \5 winner. ~ (Sources: U.S. News & World w Report, Sept. 26, 1980, ''Reubin a Askew's Lonely Run for > President,\ p. 41-3 and ~ Newsweek, Feb. 13_, 1.984, o \Democrats: Who's Trying -E. Harder?\ p. 25-9.) I~ Spunky no longer welcome on campus? Dogs: Issue of the Issue By JUDI PHILIPSON Question: Do you think that dogs who run free aroUild campus create a muisance? Prof. Clifford BroWil, Political ·Science: ''I had t6 bark at one this fall to get him to leave my P.S. 11 class.\ Ingrid Hauptman, '87: \I don't mind them as long as they don't go aro11nd in packs.'' Tony Corsello; '87: ''I don't think they are at an. I think it's nice to have them running around and playing. I think maybe they need .sqme kind of regulation, but it shouldn't be as strict as they're proposing.\ . Rebecca Rachlin, '87: \No They don't bother me, I don't bother them.'' Dan Dakota, '86: \If caught roaming free on campus t~ey should be dismembered and returned to their owners.\ · llysse Feingold '87: \It's a nuisance when they go into the classroom: It's funny, but it's a distraction. It makes. it difficult to resume your con- centration .... but you can't restrict them.\ · Will Thurlow, '84: ''I suppose they are a nuisance once they start getting into the dining rooms and classes-but I would hate to see them disappear completely.\ . I

CONCORDIENS!S, February 23, 1984 Page 7 On the Career Front - ·.A·. ·d o· · ·· t• · ·. I · · . ISC:rtmlna ... 10n · WASHINGTON, D.C. (CPS)- Women st1,1dents often get less financial aid than men, even though they tend to need more aid money than their male counterparts, ·according to a new U.S. Department of Education study. award amounts,\ she says. In the Pell Grant, program, for example, more women students receive aid than men, bUt women's awards averaged $880. Men's awards averaged The Hewlett- Packard \Way\ By DIANNEPAVACIC Career Assistant $913. During winter tenn I con- . Similarly, under the College ducted an information in- Work-Study program the terview :with Hewlett.Packard. For the 1981-82 school year, average aid amount for women I found the philosophy and women students got only 72 was ·Only $753, while men management practices of the cents in grant money ·for every averaged $830. company to he very unique .. In $1 awarded to men, yet women . \A lot of (the problem} . is the recent .bestseller, In Search earned only 68 cents for every more an institutional issues''· of Excellence, a book about dollar earned by men students, Moran notes. ''Some in- American companies, Hewlett· the report shows. stitutions do make an effort to Packard is referred to as \one And despite lower aid awards address the · (male·female) of the excellent companies that to women students, nearly twice equity issue, and some do not live :their commitment to as many women are classified repOrt it at all.\ pecple.\ The telephone call I as ''independent\ on their Schools need to channel more made to arrange the meeting student aid evaluations. of their campus~based aid prcvedto me tnat the authors of \'there always has been an money to part-time, non- this bo()k were highly .credible. inequity in the financial aid traditional students, she. s_ays, The person on the other end said awards to men and women,\ since many women aren't able to me, \Ohl I've been waiting notes Mary Moran, the . con- to .attend classes full-time. for your phone call, when can sultant to the Education Dept. And schools should also youcome? Please plan to stay a who authored the study. develop fairer standards for whole afternoon, we at HP have ''Some of it could be computing. child care expenses, so m11ch to tell you!\ With this · discr·hnination, and some of it is she adds~ which are used in my interest and enthusiasm due to aspects of the .student aid determining students' aids was startled and I made the formula used in ealculating needs. interview date as soon as l 1 • • 8 O • • e • • • •• • • • • • • • • po~~ 1 lo::a~Y was founded in e WRUC ·r· • • • Palo Alto, California~ in 1939by • . . . . . r I vIa • William Hewlett and David . . · · . · ' ' Packard. Twenty years later e ROUND 11.: This Sunday at 8 p.m. This week's bonus e they .broadened their product • question which iS wortt,l 5 points, is: Who currently e base to include computers and . manages the rock group , Blot.to\? - • calcttlators, and decentraliZed • Muslcalclue:ThethemetotheT.V.Show\Batman\ ·. their operations. Since. then e e their sales have soared. HP has e Trivia Scoreboard e 2a plants in the united states and nine in cities overseas. • F t •t /S •t • Each product division is • ra ern I Y OrCnl y: ., organiZed to function like a e Phi Neat Guys: 15 e separate business. Each has its z B T : 18 oWfl family of related products 8 e and its own research and e Dorms: e development labs, manufac- • Dav .lds·on .. 2 4 •. turingfacUities, marketing and · administrative staffs. This in e FOX : 11 e itself-sets HP apart from most • W t 3 companies. · es : • I visited the New Jersey e South: 2 e Division w)lich designs, e Richmond: 1 • manufactures and supports Power Supplies and e lndependents/Hickok I e - Mllltiprogrammers. I met with e Bronner /Smith e John Breault, a Union graduate. • . · The company believes in Boobirds: 7 • certain fundamental e Vars.ity Golf.: 7 e requirements and when viewed • • together are called the \HP Hickok Hoozers: 4 Way.\ They consist of the 8 Brainless Wonders: 4 e following: 1) Belief in people • and freedom. 2) Respect and Farsi de: 2 e dignity; individual self-esteem. e 3 Stooges: 1 e 3) Recognition and sense of e Ory Heaves: 1 e achievement; participation. 4) Security,. permanence and e 82~83 4th Floor Ghetto: 1 e development of people. 5) ••••••••.••• e ••••••• e Insurance; personal wcrry r••••••••--•We want you on campus ............ 1 I DUTCHHOLLOW I I tonight and every Thursday night I I ·Live DJ sp,inning great tunes 'I 1 9p.m.-1 a.m. 1 I . TONITE Thursday, Feb. 23 I 1 T-Shirts • Ski Hats • Beach Balls 1 I PrizeGiveaways .- I I I 1 A Night of Prizes and Fun 1 1 Sponsored by .Meyers Rum {Seagrams) I 1 Featuring: Meyers Cream 1 I NO ALCOHOL~IC PURCHASE NECESSARY 1 I FRio-AY Feb. 24 I I I I HAPPY HOUR I I· I 1 ~:30-8:00 p.m. I I I 1 TUESDAY Feb. 28 1 ·1 \live Band\ / I I -FABUlOUS HEAVYW~EIGHTS I I Sponsored by: ~Dutch Hol.low Pub, Concert I 1 . . , . . . . Com_m ittee, and MiUer Brewing Co. .. . 1 --··••:•••····--------------····-- ... protection. 6) Share \;)enefits and responsibility; help each other. 7) Management. by Objectives; . decentralization. ~) Informality-first name basis and open communication. 9) A chance to learn. by making mistakes. 10} Training and education; counseling. 11) Performance and enthusiasm. You can't walk around too long without seeing lots .of people sitting together in f()Oms working causally on problems. The R&D lab is left Qpen for- any engineer to walk into and make suggestions. They are also encouraged to take a prod11d home for personal use to .see how they like it! In additbn, every engineer is \reqUired'' (but doesn't have to, but clo~) to leave the project that they are working on out on their desk for comments by their colleagues; There is no \special\ treatment given to the Direc- tors of each department: Personnel, Quality Contml, Manufacturing, Finance, Engineering, Marketing and the General Manager's DeJ}ar-t- ment which coordinates the whold operation. There are no offices in this division--()nly small partitions separating department from department. The directors sit amongst their workers and the General Manager (could. be associated with President) sits in a tiny, wall\less office on the factory floor, in the middle of the . assembly line, shared with a secretary. As for training, it is never over. An employee Will be certain that they will spend at least two weeks in training during the year. HP believes that there are always new techniques to be learned~ At night, the facility turns into a mini-high school. Math, science, computers, En~lish courses are taught to any employee who wishes to ill- crease their transferable skills. HP employs hundreds of assembly line workers and the management foresees the assembly line becoming ,oJ:r solete; thus, they want to make Notice: The Registrar failed to including the· fo.llowing three new courses in the Spring Term '84 pre- . registration package-! English 0069 Post WWII Pornogrca.pltic Literature M, T, Th, F 1h30·12:20 a11d labs by appointment. . This course will study the ~najor \dirty books\ that have been written since 1945. Major em· phasis will be placed on those books which are exceptionally offensive to prudes. Sociology 84 This Could Be Your Life M, T, Th, 'F 1 0:30·11:20 *Open Only to Seniors* A course specifically design~d fer the !'Spring Term Senior.\ Maj'Cr topics will include being lai.d off . for the first time, I ife after 2S, and how to find the man/woman of your dreams that eluded you v.thile you were at Union. Biology 98.6 Suntanning Weather permitting, aU ... crf. · ternoon *Admission by card ONLYI\\Ttle course that finally provides you With what you really want to do during spring term. Labs will include the testing of diiferent suntan lotions ahd flight patterns of fr is tie es. -parody ad- sure that these workers don't simply get booted out but that . they have enough education to mtlve up into another position. HP also provides educational assistance for college courses by reimbursning the full cost upon completicn. In addition to the physical environment, other factors are involved in the success of Hewlett-Packard. First, everyone is called by their first name regardless of their position within the company. Second, the employees are on a flextime system which allows them to come in as eafly as 6 a.m. and stay as late as 8 p.m. providing they are at work for the core hours, i 9 a.m.-3 p.m. Third, everyone takes two coffee breaks, <me in the morning and one in the af- ternoon. They stop what they are doing and informally gather wherever they wish. Even the lunch hours are taken care of at HP. There are pool tables, ping-pong tables· and lounges for workers to relax and enjoy their lunch. There is also a monthly magazine just published for the employees of the New Jersey Division which includes can- dids, employees of the month, people who have moved to another division, people just married, new products being marketed, new techniques and a synopsis of each department's activity for the last month. In this way, every employee knows what is going on throughout the entire division. Each person becomes aware of the larger body in which they belong. I left Hewlett-Packard feeling like everyone should want to work there. A newcomer to the Division sai.d, \Soon after I joined the company I met Bill Hewlett. I expected the great man to be like I imagined all corporate presidents to be- cold, impersonal, businesslike with only a few moments to spare. Well, a little over-awed I called him 'Mr. Hewlett' and he replied, 'That was my father's name; mine is Bill!\' Skin Care Make-Up and Fragrance Products by AVON also great gifts, jewelry, bath products LOW,.LOW PRICES! Contact Lori Smith 382-9545 Box 364

PageS· CONCORDIE'NSIS. February 23; /984 FEATURES Europe: Work As You Travel Sister Joan Vlaun, of the Campus Ministry \My summer work in London was the most satisfying ex- perience of my live. Inunersed as a part of the society, among the work force, facing the same problems of inflation and bureaucracy, one cannot help · but come to understand how a culture, a people can differ-in attitudes, outlooks and asswnptions.\ Bishop Addresses Students By Staff On Sunday, February 26, Bishop Howard Hubbard of Albany will celebrate the 7:30 p.m. mass at St. John the Evangelist Church. The Bishop's visit was prompted by an invitation from the Newman Club. Plans for the special mass have been underway for weeks. The music will be performed by the Union College Folk Group, while other students will serve as lectors and Eucharistic Minlsters. Lynne Clark made a set of vestments in Union colors that the Bishop will wear for the celebration. After the mass the Newman Club will sponsor a Pizza Social so that students and faculty can meet informally with Bishop Hubbard.· The Bishop's visit.is one of the . highlights of an activity filled term. The Newman Club is sponsor·ing a variety of social and service activities. But Newman Club is a small part of the Campus Ministry Office at Union. Rev. Hugh Nevin and Sr. Joan Vlaun have worked as a team to bring many options to campus. They initiated the Oxfam program, and sponsored a variety of lectures on topics ranging from the Church in Latin America to Sexuality. Many members of the Union Community were disappointed when Father Pat was tran- sferred. He had been an integral part of the Union Community. The disappointment was eased, however, because at the same time' Sr. Joan Vlaun was assuming the position of Catholic Chaplain, and two new priests were chosen for the St. John's Parish. All three of these individuals have shown that they are eager to be a part of Union, and a help to Union students. Bishop Hubbard's visit marks his recognition of the Union students as a unique part of the Albany Diocese, and demon- strates his commitment towarqs helping .to meet thier needs. This was the assessment of one student who participated in the Work Abroad program sponsored by the Council on International Educational Exchange ( CIEE). the largest student travel organization in the United States. · Now in its fourteenth year, the Work Abroad.program is the only one of its 'kind available in the U.s. It cuts through the red tape to help thousands of students obtain tempora-ry work in Great Britain, Ireland, France, New Zealand, and for the first time in 1984, GermanY. With the assistance of the C()uncil's coQperating student organizations in each country, participants discover that finding a job abroad is no more difficult than at home. Apart from a · modest program fee· of $60 ($80 for Germany), the only significant costto the student is the airfare and even that expense may be red'Uced by special student and youth fares avaUable through the Council. · \ . . . work abroad is a tremendous lear:ning ex- perience; one is enriched with relationships wjth fellow workers and the -adventure of supporting oneself,·~ reported another student who worked in a Paris boutique. · The jobs are primarily un- skined-in re~aurants, stores, . and hotels.-but salaries should · more tha.n cover .the cost of room and' board. Some par- ticipants save enough money out of their earnings to treat themselves to a vacation once they stop working. · The program · is limited to students 18 years . of age or older. For move information and application forms, write or phone: CIEE, P:U.-WA, 205 East 42nd Street, New York, NY ·10017, (212) · 661-1414; or 312 Sutter Street, San Francisco, CA 94018, (415) 421.3473. MORE GOOD NEWS: The Union College Investment Alliance . Learn fundamentals of investment strategies through hands.-on investing The second meeting will be held tonight February 23 • Con f. Rm. A 3rd Floor Carnegie · Everyone is welcome Fly with the finest Get your career off to a flying start. Become a Marine aviator. If you're a college freshman or sophomore you could qualify for our un- dergraduate Officer Commissioning Program and be guaranteed flight school after graduation. All training is conducted during the / summer. There are no on-campus drills. Plus, you receive $100 a month during the school year. Juniors and Seniors can qualify for the graduate Officer Commissioning Program and attend training after graduation. This is an exc~llent opportunity to pro~ your- self amongst the best and start off · making from $17,000to$23,000 a year. See if you measure up. Check out the Marine Corps Offi- UJ~~tQ cer Commissioning Programs. I i .

CONCORDIENSJS, February 23, 1984 Page9 .. THE ARTS Rock In th·e Caplta·l District . , .. A Night on the ByTODDIMMlCK Art.sStaff The ltPI fieldhouse is probably the closest enClosed space of its size. Holding the largest potential audience, it is the lcgical place for touring rock groups. Last Wednesday about s,ooo of the po-ssible 7 ~000 were there to see \Loverboy\ in concert. \Loverboy\ is a rock com~ bination that has a lot of · potential. They have a Vibrancy and life that has been used well. Their potential problem is in drifting away from an effort· of skill to an effort to make noise, a la AC·DC m· Quiet Riot. In doing so, they would start to appeal to the same target, which always seems to · be Junior High School. Fortunately, with a few · lapses; they ·are .avoiding the noise problem and are creating fast moving music that ,people wa11t to hear. Operiing for them was. a band called \Streets a group that was well chosen because they :play music that sounds like ''Loverboy\ but not as good. \Loverboy\ came on stag.e to an enthusiastic autlience. Starting out with a popular song from their album Get Lucky, the group played a number of their popular songs, including The Kid is Hot To:oight, Get Lucky, and_ their newest hit, Hot-Girls in Love. For some of their older songs, the reproduction was not quite as good as it might have been, but neverthel-ess effective. :Bac;:ked by a display of lasers, the audience was impressed. The company that provides lasers for this group must have given the same package to \.38 Special\ the week before last; as far as I could tell they were the sam.e. In their encore, when they played It's. Over they used the la:sers · for a fascinating explc)(ling stin effect overhead. All in an, it was an enjoyable show. Probably their best song of the evening was . an old favorite; Turn Me Loose a characteristic song that ls full of energy. The RPI Fieldhouse is basically the same as the· Glens Falls Civic Center, seats surrounding the hockey rink where the ill-fated US Olympic team played last fall. Should you ,go to see ''Loverboy\? I can't tell you. If you .like the music, you woUld like their concerts. Don't forget your bandana. BlllCosby Bill Cosby is going to be at Proctor's Saturday, February 25. There. :will be two showings; at 7 p.m . .and 10 p.m. Tickets are selling fast, so move quickl~ if you· want to go. A r.enowned entertainer, Bill Cosby is ()De of the most popular comedians alive today, and there are certainly few people who W\{)uld not recognize his face~ llis experiences. range from standup comedy and recordings (he has 20 rec()rds) to television, movies, and, of course,. advertising. Who can forget llis Jello brand pudding ads? With all of this in Jlis life, . one might wonder why he is so popular. The answer is simple. If anyone has listened to his_ recm~dings of \Sneakers\ or \The Eottle,\ they will find · something that is the ·same in their o\Wll. lives. He is from a ghetto in . Philadelphia, and he speaks from hi.s own ex- periences m the house or on the street. He understands people. Bill Cosby has the ability to find what everybody has in common and reflect -it back, showing how even the most simple parts of life, such as drinking from the bottle irlthe refrigerator, can be fwmy. Withoutprofanity (which other comedians can do), he can create belly ... aching laughter with every thought. Another urtique accomplishment for him is being one of the first blacks to take a major role on previously all~white television. His winning of three Emmy Awards for ''I Spy,'' a television series, is an accomplishment indeed. His primary place, however, is on the stage. Opening for him is the well known ''Walt Michael &: Company,\ a traditional music trio consisting of the hammered dulcimer, guitar and bass, As for Bill Cosby, he needs no instrument except his memory. The stage is his fame, and where he is at his best. Proctor's is the place to be on Saturday night. Bill Cosby will be performing Saturday, February 25th at Proc- tor's. ~ tn c ric an <£ o ll c g I ut r ~3 or t s ~ n t bole g p ~~ International Publications is sponsoring a jjiational el:ollrge ~o.etrp <!Contest -- Spring Concours 1984- - open to all college and university students desiring to have their poetry anthologized. CASH PRIZES will go to the top fi.ve poems: $100 $50 $25 $15 Fourth First Place Second Place Third Place $10 Fifth AWARDS of free printing. for All accepted manuscripts in our popular, handsomely bound and copyrighted anthology, AMERICAN COLLEGIATE PoETs. Deadline: March 31 . CONTEST RULES AND RESTRICTIONS: 1. Any student is eligible to submit his· or her verse. 2. All entries must be original c;tnd unpublished. 3. All entries must be typed, double·spaced, on one side of the page only. 4. Each poem must be on a separate sheet and must bear, in the upper left· hand corner, the NAME and ADDRESS of the student as well as the COLLEGE attended. Put name and address on envelope ah>o! Something That'~ Different 5. 6. There are no restrictions on form or theme. length of poems. up to fourteen· lines. Each poem must have a separate title. (Avoid \Untitled\!) Small black and white illustrations welcome. The judges' decision will be final. No info by pha.neJ Entrants should keep a copy of all entries as they cannot be returned. Prize winners and all authors awarded free publication will be notified immediately after deadline. I.P .. will retain first publication rights for accepted poems.. Foreign language .poems welcome. By STEF ANIE SPANIER You don~t know what to do Satllrday, before you go out to the Skellar or the· Pub; what about Tuesday? No plans . . . Well I've got great news for you. Yes, once again you have the opportunity t!l $ee and hear some campus musicians. This Saturday, Feb~25, at 8:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel, will be a Men's Glee Club per- formance. Directed by Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, the group will sing a solo feature section including a few pieces that were sung two weeks ago .. (You cannot afford to m.iss them twice.) The concert will feattire Mozart's \Te Deum'-s and the Women's G\ee Club of Regis College will perform also. Regis is con~ ductedbySisterSheila Vogt and the dub is a talented one~ This should prov:e to be a very pleasant concert. Come on . down-it should not be more than an hour or so of beautiful music. On Tuesday ~vening, Feb. 28, at 8:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel, there will be an exciting performance given by the Union Jazz Ensemble. A varied selection of piece.s . will be performed, and the night will be enjoyed by all who attend. Last year's concert was quite good and this one should be even better. Youean take some time out of your b11sy schedules to attend (at least one of) these concerts. Remember: Saturday~Men's Glee Club and Tuesday.....;The Jazz Ensemble. Hope to see you there. 7. 8. The Manhattan Exchange There is an initial one dollar registration fee for the first entry and a fee of fifty cents for each additional poem. it is requested to submit no more than ten poems per entrant. All entries must be postmarked not later than the above deadline and fees be paid, cash, check or money order, to: INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATIONS P. 0. Bmc 44-L Los Angeles, CA 90044 Comtnunity Arts Calendar The newest and most exciting restaurant~bar in downtown schenectady a . Theatre Feb. 23·25: DEATHTRAP, RPI Playhouse, 8p.m. 266-6503. Feb, 23: BLUES IN THE NIGHT, Proctor's Theatre, 8 p.m. 382~1083 Feb. 25: BILL COSBY, Procter's Theatre, 7 & lOp.m. 382-1083 374-5930 605 Union Street (2 blocks from Un.ion CoU~ge) Why Not Give Us /ATry? I Feb. 29: THE DEADLY GAME, Albany Civic Theatre, 2:20 J?.m. 462--1297 Music Feb. 24: ALBANY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA, Troy Savings Music Hall,8:30 p.m. 465-4755 Feb. 26: 'RUTH LAREDO (pianist), The Egg, Albany, 2 p.m. 473- 3750. '

Page 10 . CONCORDIENSIS, Fehruaryl3, 1984 <llDnrorbirnsis F'ounJrc/ al (Inion Co/leg~ 1877 ------------ ----------- Safe and Secure? Union College, Schenectady, New York. A place where many students feel that they are both isolated and protected from the \real'·' world. A campus where students can walk. safely without fear at any time of the day or night. Well, it's time to wake up. Too many of us have lived with this misconception for too many years. Campus safety is a very serious issue that students (especially women) and administrators should look at much more closely. Last Saturday night, a Union Colle~te student was attacked by a man with a knife. It ·was only nine p.m. and she was in a fairly well-lit part of camp-us. Tfiis is not the first such incident that has occurred on Union's campus. Most students are not aware that these things happen, especially since many cases go unreported. Union's administration seems to be taking this situation very seriously. But it is also important that Union students realize how potentially dangerous it is to walk alone on or off campus at night. Although Union is surrounded by a gate, any outsider can come onto campus if they wish. We are not isolated, nor are we as protected as we like to believe. Perhaps the recent attack will bring about a reevaluation of the security .procedures on campus. With the growing number of women at Union, it may be time for campus security to be increased or im- proved in order to better protect both male and female students. Security should be more visible to students-espeCially at night. Although the recent incident was not the fault of campus security, perhaps. future incidents could be prevented with a tighter security policy. In addition, students shoulEJ. be aware that security is there to help them. It is also necessary that students help security by reporting any such incidents. Hopefully, in the future, students who work for security will realize the responsibility that gbes with their job. It is not uncommon to see student security \hanging out\ when they are supposed to be working. While this is not true for all of those who work for student security, it is true for some. These students have to realize that they are being counted on to aid campus security in maintaining a \safe\ en- vironment for Union students. It is not our intent to instill fear in the members of the Union College community. However, it is time for us to become more aware of the potentially dangerous situations that we can encounter on campus. Don't be fooled into believing that it can't happen to you. With the administration, campus security and the student body working together, we can make Union a safer place. Student • • ••• Act1v1tle's General Meeting For all student activities .le.aders WHEN: Tuesday, February 28, 1984 at 4:30 p.m. WHERE: Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall WHY: To discuss 1984-85 budget process Attendance is required! Deadline for 1984-85 budgets: Apri'l 17, 1984 LETTERS A Matter of Responsibility To the Editor: After all that was said recently I hesitate to add yet another log to the Por- nography fire, but there are still issues that I feel must be ad- dressed. Inflicting something like \Wanda Whips Wall Street\ on a conununity is not a matter or issue of free speech or individual freedom, but rather one . of license and respon· sibility. Freedom of expression implies as well a responsibility for implications and outcomes - of one's expression. I will not deny .anyone the right to pursue their pleasures or quirks as long as they do not harm or intrude themselves on others. However, I see no reason whY an organization like a college, ought to sanction implicitly or explicitly, something that is repugnant. to many .of its members, and especially when questions of art or social value are not even at · issue. The fact is that tbe few who feel that they should _be allowed to view anything they wishseernto.forget that aU .l)f us have an interest in and some responsibility .for what is done at and in the name of the College. One can argue the various merits and demerits of por- nography, but in most instances it seems to me that such \en- tertainment'' is blatantly and cruelly sexist and humanly debasing. In fact, to the extent that such material dehmnanizes women it equally dehmnanizeS men, for such things that treat anyone as objects for abuse or hedonistic gratification reduces a-ll of us to a common denornlijatol\ none of us :would feel flattered by. I am pleased that so many women took offense, and I am equally sorry that so few men appeared to feel· the same way. I am equally hopeful that more men will find it within them\ selves to recognize the im- portance of their voice in an issue ·Of such importance. · Union College should not feel obliged .to compete with' the Colony Art Theater. After all, they do not offer college courses and there ·is no reason why we have to sanction abusive and offensive films. Even having to read the titles is offense enough• Sincerely, RudyV. Nydegger, Ph.D. Associate Professor & Chair, Department. of Psychology From Financial Aid To the Editor: In the \Campus News\ section of the February 16 issue of the Coneordlensis under the heading of Financial Aid, an announcen1ent appeared for The Scholarship Bank. This notice was not placed by the Financial Aid Office, nor can we recommend the use of the service provided by The Scholarship Bank. Please be advised and forewarned that the information this firm provides is on a fee basis which can range up to $50. The in- formation provided can be gathered for free by using your campus set'Vices: following the scholarship listings in the \Campus News\ and by using the reference books availaple at the Library and the Financial Aid Office, watching for departmental postings and speaking with your advisors. In addition, the Career Development Center is a resource for sijllliller job in- formation. Caveat emptor! The Financial Aid Staff Attention Seniors To the Editor: Several weeks ago, a survey was circulated among members of the class of 1984. Its purpose was to evaluate student opinions and ideas concerning the proposed activities for Senior Week. The results of that survey were clear; an over- whelming majority of fourth- year students were in favor of some kind of a semi-formal dance, with some students suggesting that a \seniors only\ dinner-dance would be more appropriate. With these ideas in hand, a small group of concerned upperclassmen h~ve been meeting regularly, trying to plan and organize such en- joyable and memorable ac- tivities as these. However, for all of their good intentions, these dedicated students are helpless without the support and participation of the entire senior class. The Senior Fling Committee meets every Wednesday af- ternoon at 4: 00 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. At these informal gatherings the committee members try to think of fun, creative ways to raise funds for Senior Week activities, as well as plan the details of several class functions. For example, scheduled for the beginning of Mat'ch is a night of fun and friends when only seniors wiU be admitted to the Dutch Hollow Pub for a very special Record Hop. Also on the planning board is a senior class dinner, a bar- becue in Jackson's Gardens, and a semi-fonnal cocktail party-dance to be held at the Gideon-Putnam in Saratoga Springs. Ideally, the committee~opes to organize activities which are fun and acceptable to many students. In order to do so, we need your help. Any suggestions or ideas that you may have will be greatly appreciated by the members of the committee. Remember, the function of this committee is to provide YOU with the opportunity to do What YOU want to do during your last few weeks here at Union. You are more than welcome to help plan for these activities. If committee work is not to your liking, please remember that you can then be most helpful by participating in the events scheduled for Seniors. With your support, the ending of our senior year is guaranteed to be fun, exciting, and very memorable. sm~erely, The Senior Fling Committee • Totbe Bein: Union, comm distanc concor a lette Profes: dina to Abroa-c the co Terms college very in say: DearS AS a Union' requisi itselfp my stt questio hell dit The 1 to Un: theref<J would 1 service Let m college 1. Prl Freem paper~ work, 2. Pr for BPI 3. Pr to Isr~ three-d To the The yearbo anytbm Inre< has bee sent to the foll hornet TheGa on an product entailec and scJ this, tt finishe< weeks. suppler To the If I from fc to be' tressed \the fa, in ten tic such \ Social 19th ( McCarl facts\ asana1 absolut pointot .. ,\ tb there i~ disagre are tt povert~ and l Am eric mittee Mr.E us \tt. disarm; Feb. i1 misleac obno:xic that an nothing plistic comple: the effe politica policy unilatei Would~ race. Al and ear helped adventt

Page 10 CONCORD/ENS/~: February 23, 1984 Foundt-J al ( lmon Colltgt 1811 ------------- ------------ Safe and Secure? Union College, Schenectady, New York. A place where many students feel that they are both isolated and protected from the ''real\ world. A campus where students can walk. safely without fear at any time of the day or night. Well, it's time to wake up. Too many of us have lived with this misconception for too many years. Campus safety is a very serious issue that students ( especiaUy women) and administrators should look at much. more closely. Last Saturday night, a Union Collel!e student was attacked by a man with a knife. It was only nine p.m. and she was in a fairly well-lit part of camp-us. This is not the first such incident that has occurred on Union's campus. Most students are not aware that these things happen, especially since many cases go unreported. Union's administration seems to be taking this situation very seriously. But it is also important that Union students realize how potentially dangerous it is to walk alone on or off campus at night. Although Union is surrounded by a gate, any outsider can come onto campus if they wish. We are not isolated, nor are we as protected as we like to believe. Perhaps the recent attack will bring about a reevaluation of the security procedures on campus. With the growing number· of women at Union, it may be time for campus security to be increased or im- proved in order to better protect both male and female students. Security should be more visible to students-espeelally at night. Although the recent incident was not the fault of campus security, perhaps future incidents could be prevented with a tighter security policy. In addition, students should be aware that security is there to help them. It is also necessary that students help security by reporting any such incidents. Hopefully, in the future, students who work for security will realize the responsibility that goes with their job. It is not uncommon to see student security \hanging out\ when they are supposed to be working. While this is not true for all of those who work for student security, it is true for some. These students have to realize that they are being counted on to aid campus security in maintaining a \safe\ en- vironment for Union students. It is not our intent to instill fear in the members of the Union College community. However, it is time for us to become more a ware of the potentially dangerous situations that we can encounter on campus. Don't be fooled into believing that it can't happen to you. With the administration, campus security and the student body working together, we can make Union a safer place. Student Activities General Meeting For all student activities leaders WHEN: Tuesday, February 28, 1984 at 4:30 p.m. WHERE: Strauss Lounge~ Carnegie Hall WHY: To discuss 1984-85 budget process Attendance is required! Deadline for 1984~85 budgets: Aprill7, 1984 LETTERS A Matter of Resp011sibility To the Eciitor: After all that was said recently I hesitate to add yet another log ta the pOr- nography fire, but there are still issues that I feel must be ad• dressed. Inflicting something like \Wanda Whips Wall Street\ on acemmunity is not a matter or issue of free speech or individual freedom, but rather one ef license and respon- sibility. Freedom of expression implies as well a responsibility for implications and outcomes of one's expression. I wHl not deny anyone the right to pursue their pleasures or quirks as long as they do not harm or intrude themselves on others. However, I see no reason why an organization 1ike a college, ought to sanction implicitly or explicitly, something that is repugnant. t() many of its members, and especially when questions of alit or social value are not even at issue. The fact is that the few wha feel that they .should be allowed to view anything they- wish seem to forget that all of us have an interest in and son1e responsibility for what is d()ne at and in the name of the College. One can argue the vari()US merits and demerits of por- nography, but in most instances it seems to me that such ''en. tertainment\ is blatantly and cruelly sexist and humanly debasing. In fact, to the extent that such material dehumanizes women it equaHy dehumanizes men, for such things that treat anyone as objects for abuse or hedonistic gratification reduces all of us to a comm()n denominator none of us would feel flattered by. I am pleased that so many women took offense, and I am equally sorry that so few men appeared to feel·the same way. I am equally hopeful that more men wil'l find it within them- selves to recognize the im- portance of their voice in an issue af .such importance. Union College shauld not feel obliged to compete with the Colany Art Theater. After all, they do not offer college courses and there is no reason why we !~ave to sanction abusive and offensive films. Even having to read the titles is offense enough. Sincerely, RudyV. Nydegger, Ph.D. Associate Professor & Chair, Department of Psychology From Financial Aid To the Editor: In the ''Campus News\ section of the February 16 issue of the Concordiensis under the heading of Financial Aid, an announcennent appeared for The Scholarship Bank. This notice was not placed by the Financial Aid Office, nor can we recommend the use of the service provided by The Scholarship Bank. Please be advised and forewarned that the information this fkm provides is on a fee basis which can range up to $50. The in· formation provided can be gathered for free by using your campus services: following the scholarship listings in the \Campus News\ and by using the reference books available at the Library and the Financial Aid Office, watching for departmental postings and speaking with your advisors. In addition, the Career Development Center is a resource for sur.nrner job in- formation. Caveat emptor! The Financial Aid Staff Attention Seniors To the Editor: Several weeks ago, a survey was circulated among members of the class of 1984. Its purpose was to evaluate student opinions and ideas concerning the proposed activities for Senior Week. The results of that survey were clear; an over- whelming majority of fourth- year students were in favor of some kind of a semi-formal dance, with some students suggesting that a \seniors only\ dinner-dance would be more appropriate. With these ideas in hand, a small group of concerned upperclassmen have been meeting regularly, trying to plan and organize such en- joyable and memorable ac- tivities as these. However, for all of their good intentions, these dedicated students are helpless without the support and participation of the entire senior class. The Senior Fling Committee meets every Wednesday af- ternoon at 4:00 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. At these informal gatherings the committee members try to think of fun, creative ways to raise funds for Senior Week activities, as well as plan the details of several class functions. For example, scheduled f<>r the beginning of March is a night of fun and friends when only seniors will be admitted to the Dutch Hollow Pub for a very special Record Hop. Also on the planning board is a senior class dinner, a bar- becue in Jackson's Gardens, and a semi-formal cocktail party-dance to be held at the Gideon-Putnam in Saratoga Springs. Ideally, the corrunittee<thopes to organize activities which are fun and acceptable to many students. In order to do so, we need your help. Any suggestions or ideas that you may have will be greatly appreciated by the members of the committee. Remember, the function of this committee is to provide YOU with the opportunity to do what YOU want to do during your last few weeks here at Union. You are more than welcome te help plan for these activities. 1£ committee work is not to your liking, please remember that you can then be most helpfull>y Photo Staff participating in the events scheduled for Seniors. With your support, the ending of our senior year is guaranteed to be fun, exciting, and very memorable. Sincerely, The Senior Fling Committee il 1! :-_f \ ·- . > ·~~ \ I \ . \ -· -·)J( .. i - -- - - To th BeiJ Unior comn distar Cone( a lett Profe din at Abra~ the c Term colleg veryi say: Dear As~ Unien requi: itself my S1 questi hell d The to U1 therel would servi< Let I colleg l.P Freer: paper work. 2.P for ai 3. F to Is1 three- To th{ The yearb anythi InrE has be sent tt the fo home TheG on a1 pro due entail• and s this, 1 finish« weeks supplE To th~ If I from l to be tresse \the f: intent: such Social 19th McCaJ facts\ as an~ absolu pointe .. '\ t there disagr are 1 povert and Ameri mittee Mr.· us \t disarn Feb. mislee~ obnold that a nothin plistie compl• the eff politic. policy unilatE would race. I: and ec: helped advent

. ' CONCORDIENSIS, February 1.3, 1984 Page 11 ·' . ' Whe.-e Did· the Money Go? To tbe .Editor: Being 7.,000 miles away from Union, and the inconvenience of communic:_ations frolll that distance, r would like .tQ use Concordtensis as the .forum for a letter to the administration, Professor Thomas, the cooru dinator of Union Terms Abroa'd; and Professor Berk, the co()rdinator of the Israel Terms Abroad. l think the college community would be very .interested in what I have to say: tlle Kibbutz, ·checked on ·us· tllree :days later, and returned · to the States. · Since the day that Pr'Qfessor Heckelnlan left, we have had no contact whatsoever with the 'College except for a very an· tagonistic phone conversation With. ·Professor Benk this- very evening. Now I ask you, \Where did 't\\ . ,, .• ue money ,go. I asked Professor Berk this very question ori the phone and he said thatthe money is paying f()r ,the equivalent . of a Dear Sirs~ trimester's work at the College. As a participant in this year's Since we are not at the College, Union 'l'enn in Israel, I paid my a~e doing manual labor on a requisite $2700 for the Term kibbutz,. taldng two credits itselfplus an insurance fee and wortbof Hebrew With an Israeli my student activities fee. My Board. of Education certified question to you is, \Where the teaeber(notaUnionprofessor); hell did tbat money go?\ and are presently writing a The money was paid directly .paper that will be returned to to Union College. It should Professor Berk for grading on therefore 'be assum~d that we ouli third credit, Israeli would be the recipient of college Civilization; it seems to me that services in one way or another. we paid cash to the College to Let me spell out what the re~eive our grades at the ·end of college has done for the term: tb.eterm. Union gave us little or 1. Professor Thomas and Mrs. no services for that money. ·Freeman coordinated all the 'Now ;111 of this is after the paperwork and· administrative fact, the . check having been work, deposited in the bank. However, 2. Professor Berk lectured us I feel that, release form or not, for approximately six hours. we are representatives of 3. Professor Heckeltnan flew Union College and were not to Israel and joined us in .a tveated as such. We went over three-day toUP, deliverP.cl us to \ half the term without hearing .a word from the institution. 011r firSt word came with the arrival of our paper topics. That wol\d was a copy for everyone of tile three questions from which we wotild'choose two. There was no letter,. note, \Hello nothing from Professor Berk. I don't expect him to listen to my gripes, I knew there would be 110 professor in residence on this program. However, it would have been nice if the College we hold so near to our hearts had sent a salutation in some form. I feel like I paid my $2','100 to the school, they cashed the check, and totally forgot about me. This is not a great feeling. I would really like to see soiil.e kind of response ()f acknowledgement to this letter. I think yeu owe it to yo1.1r students and their parents that keep this school running. To that end I request that this isslle of Concordiensis, plus. a sub- sequent reply either in Con· cordy or separates be sent to tlte parents of all those who par·· ticipated in this. year's Term in Israel. I think our Student Activities Fee will be enoughto cover postage. Sincerely, WayneJosel Class of 1985 Yearbook Needs Help· To the Editor: The Garnet-it's your yearbook, Do you know anything else about it? In recent memory Tbe Garnet has been a fall book....:..it has been sent to the school in the fall of the following year and mailed home tCl the seniors. This year The Gamet staff decided, based on an all-campus vote, to produce a spring book. This entailedmuch earlier deadlines and scbedules. As a result of this, the 1984 Garnet will be finished within the ne:xt three weeks. There will be a spring supplement filled with all those To the Editor: If I have learned anything from four years of college, it is. to be wary of arguments but- tressed by constant reference to \the facts\ and to trust less the intentions of those who make such arguments. From the Social Darwinists of the late 19th century to Sen .. Joe McCartny of the 1950's, \the facts\ have been waved about as an almost religious symbol of absolute truth; \but· let me point out the Facts, The Fact is . .. ,\the implication. being that there is no room for reasoned disagreement on the issue. You are therefore destined to poverty by Darwin's biol~gy, and you are a disloyal American because my com- mittee says so. Mr. Einstein's attempt to give us \the facts\ · on nuclear disal\lllament in his letter to the Feb. 16 Concordiensis is as misleading as it is intellectually obnoXious. His first proposition, that anti-nuclear protesters do nothing to avert war is a sim- plisti() generalization of some complex political issues such as the effectiveness ·of grass~rcots Political protest on foreign ... policy in~ormation, and how unilateral action by the U.S. Would affect the overall arms race. As recently as the late 60s and early 70s, student protests helped to stop a foreign-policy adventure that cost more than activjties that woUld otherwise be missed by having a spring yeal\book. · . At the beginning of the year there were many people in- terested in helping produce the yearbook. As of this time the active staff has beenreduced in size to approximately five. This vesults iri a rush to meet deadlines and to produce the book. If. you are interested in becoming involved with the yearbook we still need help in these last few weeks and will need help for the spring sup- plement. A meeting will be held this Thursday evening on fourth· floor Carnegie. If you are interested in purchasing personals for tb.e yearbook to help support it y()u may purchase these at tlte Student Activities Box Office, for approximately the next week, for one dollar per line. rn addition, the yearbook may lle purchased at the box: office for twenty-five dollars. Comments, questions ()r suggestions should be given to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. Editor-in-Chief 1984Garnet L~tter Rebuked 5(),0B.O .American lives. It is debatable whether or not the anti-war protesters brought abmlt an end the American military involvement in Viet· nam, but they nonetheless helped place the issue at the El)refront of the political agerula, raising the level of knowledge of the electorate and forcing the political system to account for its policies to that electClrate. Along with many peQple, . I believe that current u.s. wlicy reflects\ insufficient effortto achieve effective arms- C()ntrol. If protests can make oW' governinent at least try to solve the problem, then I'm ~ for them. Finally; I would conunent on Mr. Einstein's views on civil- defense and the world· eeological effects of nuclear war as tbey relate to civil· defense. Supposedly quoting anonymous \studies\ of Hiroshima survivor cancer rates and: a National. Academy of .SCiences report that, post- holocaust, the ozone layer of the a.tmospbere . \would'' regenerate, that the world clim.ate \would'' return to normal and that anbnal and plant populations. \woUld\ be re-established; Mr. Einstein concludes that effective civil· defense from full•scale nuclear war is possible. .Anyone familiar with ex· perimeiltal science knows that untestable hypotheses remain only hypotheses. Unless a nuclear war actually occurs and assuming that there is any scientific community left t(l study its aftermath, we simply cannot know the effects nuclear war would have on world temperature, the o~one layer, radiation levels, etc. With this in mind, I highly doubt that the National Academy of Sciences' conclusions on the. ecological eff~~ts of nuclear war are couched in Mr .. Einstein's terms of certainty. But Mr Einstein's presen· tation of the role of civil-defense is. more fundamentally flawed than by bad science, I think. It misses the larger, moral question of the deaths of hUll· dreds of millions of persons. Regardless of how little long· term safety a fallout shelter might actually provide, or the quality of life and civilization that one might expect, emerging from such a shelter, sitting smugly beneath one's reinforced basement belies a moral selfishness and estrangement frem cne's fellow man that I find repellent. As regards society at large, if protest serves to heighten Olll' concern and produce sincere and energetic policies, then bu.rrowing one's self'in the ea1t:h out· of hopeful pseudo-sCience can only have theoppositee~fect. LaiTY Deutscll LETTERS Another· View • To the Editor: \Competitive armament is nota way to prevent war. Every step in this direction brings us . · nearer to catastrophe.'' -Albert ·Einstein. In· response to last week's letter, \The Facts Revealed/' we would like to point out some inaceuracies and present a different perspective. First, we agree that the anti· nuclear movement does nothing to increase people's chances of surviving a nuclear war, for it is impossible to survive a nuclear war. Our goal is to prevent nuclear war. .It is not just the \misin- · formed anti-nuclear activists,\ ''fiction writers and movie makers\ who feel that a nuclear war would be devastating but · agencies to the U.S. govern· ment. According to the U.S. National Security CoWicil, at minimum 140 million people would be killed in the United States as a result of a fnll·scale nuclear war. The National · Academy ·of Sciences predicted that if the superpowers used only 10 percent of their full- scale nuclear _ capabilities it would destroy 80 percent of the ozone in the Northern Hemisphere and 30 to 40 percent in the Southern Hemisphere. It takes the destruction of only 20 percent of the ozone worldwide to blind every organism on the . earth, which would, in turn, destroy the entire .ecosystem. Though it is true that the ozone layer would . regenerate, civilization would have already ceased to exist . Humanity would face many more dangers besides the destruction of the ozone layer. These include the con- tamination and destruction of f()Od and water supplies leading to widespread famine, a near total lack of all medical facilities and personnel, and the presence of large nurnnbers of unburiable corpses leading to widespread epidemics, lack of shelter and heating fuels, lack of communication, all resulting in utter chaos. Obviously, na matter how you look at it a nuclear war means total an- nihilation. · The road to safety is not in more and \better\ nuclear weapons. Rather the road to survival is thorough disar- mament. One example of a \better\ missile is the Pershing II. These have increased the probB.bility of attack on war- ning. With this weapon the Soviets have six niin.utes to decide whether to launch their missiles or chance having them destroyed in their silos. (The United States faces a similar problem.) This principal of attack on warning only destabilizes and brings the world closer to nuclear destruction. Therefore we propose a nuclear freeze followed by immediate and drastic reductions as the only road for survival. Mike Factor '84 Shawne McCord '85 Demand Proof To the Editor: Once again, the Union College administration has deemed it necessary to raise the cost of a , Union College education. Is there anything we as students can do about it? Granted, many students of Union College feel that the matter is entirely out of their hands. Some, due to their general apathy on the matter, or perhaps because the smalllO percent ra~se will not affect them financially, will simply accept it and pass it off as being inevitable. We, as students of Union College, have the right to know the exact reasons for this in- crease. The increase does seem to be a little odd in a time when tbe college plans to spend large sums of money to renovate the Alumni· Gym and build a new student center. These 'incidents Union College is an institution committed to a high quality liberal education. If this tuition hike will directly affect the quality of this education, I will accept it, but they will have to prove it to me. There is something we as students can do; we can demand proof that this increase will better the quality of a Union education. Let yourselves be heard. Write letters to the administration and ask them the simple question, \Why?\ I can see another such in- crease possible next year and in subsequent years. It seems to be the trend among small American universities. It will be a sad day indeed when the question of whether one goes to college is answered by whether they can pay their way, or through scholarships, play their way. appear to me to be more than Kenneth C. Budka mere coincidence. Class of '87 ------------------------------------------~---·~ Stay at Home! To the Editor: I just got back from the Union Talent Show at the Dutch Hollow Pub and am forced to write this letter on behalf of those in attendance who ac- tually came to listen to the performances and also for those performing in the shOw:. It was absolutely deplorable that one performer, after an· nouncing the title of his next selection, felt it necessary to add \for those of you who want to hear it,'' and for the emcee to ask the audience to be quiet if only for the judges' benefit. Even when these inconsiderate people were asked to leave if they wanted to continue their conversations, the suggestions were ignored and the talking did not cease. r realize that attendance to these sort of events is usually sparse and those involved with them are always trying to get more people to go, but please if you are going to be in- . considerate, stay at home! LauraBurde Classof'86 All letters to the editor must be typed a.nd submitted by 5 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request.

< l l .l 1 . '» l '-i l ,- --)Jf ., ' CONCORDIENSIS, February 23, 1984 Page 11 Where Did the Money. Go? To the Editor: Being 7,000 miles away from Union, and the inconvenience of communi~ations from that distance, I would like to use Concordiensis as the forum for a letter to the adminiStration, Professor Thomas, the coor- dinator of Union Terms Abroad; and Professor Berk, tile coordinator of the Israel Tern1s Abroad. I think the college community would be very interested in what I have to say: the Kibbutz, checked on us three days later, and returned · to the States. Since the day that Professor Heckelman left, we have had no contact whatsoever with the College except for a very an- tagonistic phone conversation with Professor Berk this- very evening. . Now I ask you, \Where did the money go?\ I asked Professor Berk this very question on the phone and he said thatthe money is paying for the equivalent of a Dear Sirs, trimester's work at the College. As a participant in this year's Since we are not at the College, Union Term in Israel, I paid my are doing manual labor on a requisite $2700 for the Term kibbutz,. taking two credits itself plus an insurance fee and worth of Hebrew with an Israeli my student activities fee. My Board of Education certified question to you is, \Where the teacher (not a Union professor), hell did that money go?\ and are presently writing a The money was paid directly paper that will be returned to to Union College. It should Professor Berk for grading on therefore be assumed that we our third credit, Israeli would be the recipient of college Civilization; it seems to me that services in one way or another. we paid cash to the College to Let me spell out what the receive our grades at the end of college has done for the term: the term. Union gave us little or 1. Professor Thomas and Mrs. no services for that money. Freeman coordinated all the Now ;lll of this is after the paperwork and administrative fact, the check having been work. deposited in the bank. However, 2. Professor Berk lectured us I feel that, release form or not, for approximately six hours. we are representatives of 3. Professor Heckelman flew Union College and were not to Israel and joined us in a treated as such. We went over three-day tour, deliven•rl us to , half the term without hearing a word from the institution. Our first word came with the arrival of our ~per topics. That word was a. copy for everyone. of the three questions from which we would· choose two. There was no letter, note, \Hello nothing from Professor Berk. I don't expect him to Usten to my gripes. I knew there would be no professor in I'esidence on this program. However, it would have been nice if the College we hold so near to our hearts had sent a salutation in some form. I feel like I paid my $2,700 to the school, they cashed the check, and totally forgot about me. This is not a great feeling. I would really like to see some kind of response or aclrnowledgement to this letter. I think you owe it to your students and their parents that keep this school running. To that end I request that this issue of Concordiensis, plus a sub- sequent reply either in Con- cordy or separates be sent to the parents of all those who par- · ticipated in this year's Term in Israel. I think our Student Activities Fee will be enough to cover postage. Sincerely, WayneJosel Class of 1985 Yearbook Needs Help To the Editor: The Garnet-it's your yearbook. Do you know anything else about it? In recent memory The Garnet has been a fall book-it has been sent to the school in the fall of the following year and mailed home to the seniors. This year The Gamet staff decided, based on an all-campus vote, to produce a spring book. This entailed much earlier deadlines and schedules. As a result of this, the 1984 Garnet will be finished within the next three weeks. There will be a spring supplement filled with all those To the Editor: If I have learned anything from four years of college, it is to be wary of argwnents but- tressed by constant reference to \the facts\ and to trust less the intentions of those who make such arguments. From the Social Darwinists of the late 19th century to Sen. Joe McCarthy of the 1950's, \the facts\ have been waved about as an almost religious symbol of absolute truth; \but let me point out the Facts, The Fact is . . . , \ the implication being that there is no room for reasoned disagreement on the issue. You are therefore destined to poverty by Darwin's biology, and you are a disloyal American because my com- mittee says so. Mr. Einstein's attempt to give us \the facts\ on nuclear disarmament in his letter to the Feb. 16 Concordiensis is as misleading as it is intellectually obnoxious. His first proposition, that anti-nuclear protesters do nothing to avert war is a sim- plistic generalization of some complex political issues such as the effectiveness of grass-roots political protest on foreign- policy information, and how unilateral action by the U.S. would affect the overall arms race. As recently as the late 60s and early 70s, student protests helped to stop a foreign-policy adventu~e that cost more than activities that would otherwise be missed by having a spring yearbook. At the beginning of the year there were many people in- terested in helping produce the yearbook. As of this time the active staff has been reduced in size to approximately five. This results iri a rush to meet deadlines and to produce the book. If you are interested in becoming involved with the yearbook we still need help in these last few weeks and will need help for the spring sup- plement. A meeting will be held this Thursday evening on fourth floor Carnegie. If you are interested in purchasing personals for the yearbook to help support it you may purchase these at the Student Activities Box Office, for approximately the next week, for one dollar per line. In addition, the yearbook may be purchased at the box office for twenty-five dollars. Comments, questions or suggestions should be given to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. Editor-in-Chief 1984Garnet Letter Rebuked 50,000 American lives. It is debatable whether or not the anti-war protesters brought about an end the American military involvement in Viet- nam, but they nonetheless helped place the issue at the forefront of the political agenda, raising the level of knowledge of the electorate and forcing the political system to account for its policies to that electorate. Along with many people, I believe that current U.S. policy reflects· insufficient effort to achieve effective arms- control. If protests can make our government at least try to solve the problem, then I'm all for them. Finally, I would comment on Mr. Einstein's views on civil- defense and the world ecological effects of nuclear war as they relate to civil- defense. Supposedly quoting anonymous \studies\ of Hiroshima survivor cancer rates and a National Academy of Sciences report that, post- holocaust, the ozone layer of the atmosphere \would\ regenerate, that the world climate \would\ return to normal and that animal and plant populations. \would\ be re-established; Mr. Einstein concludes that effective civil- defense from full-scale nuclear war is possible. Anyone familiar with ex- perimental science knows that untestable hypotheses remain only hypotheses. Unless a nuclear war actually occurs and assuming that there is any scientific community left to study its aftermath, we simply can not know the effects nuclear war would have on world temperature, the ozone layer, radiation levels, etc. With this in mind, I highly doubt that the National Academy of Sciences' conclusions on the ecological effects of nuclear war are couched in Mr. Einstein's terms of certainty. But Mr Einstein's presen- tation of the role of civil-defense is more fundamentally flawed than by bad science, I think. It misses the larger, moral question of the deaths of hun- dreds of millions of persons. Regardless of how little long- term safety a fallout shelter might actually provide, or the quality of life and civilization that one might expect, emerging from such a shelter, sitting smugly beneath one's reinforced basement belies a moral selfishness and estrangement frem one's fellow man that I find repellent. As regards society at large, if protest serves to heighten our concern and produce sincere and energetic policies, then burrowing one's self in the earth out of hopeful pseudo-science can only have the opposite effect. Larry Deutsch LETTERS Another View To tne Editor: ''Competitive armament is not a way to prevent war. Every step iJl this direction brings us nearer to catastrophe.\ -Albert Einstein. In response to last week's letter, \The Facts Revealed,\ we would like to point out some inaccuracies and present a different perspective. First, we agree that the anti- nuclear movement does nothing ta increase people's chances of surviving a nuclear war, for it is impossible to survive a nuclea1 war. Our goal is to prevent nuclear war. It is not just the \misin- formed anti-nuclear activists,\ \fiction writers and movie ·' makers\ who feel that a nuclear war would be devastating but agencies to the U.S. govern- ment. According to the U.S. National Security Council, at minimum 140 million people would be killed in the United States as a result of a full-scale nuclear war. The National Academy of Sciences predicted that if the superpowers used only 10 percent of their full- scale nuclear capabilities it would destroy 80 percent of the ozone in the Northern Hemisphere and 30 to 40 percent in the Southern Hemisphere. It takes the destruction of only 20 percent of the ozone worldwide to blind every organism on the earth, which would, in turn, destroy the entire ecosystem . Though it is true that the ozone layer would regenerate, civilization would have already ceased to exist. Humanity wollld face many more dang.ers besides the destruction of the ozone layer. These include the con- tamination and destruction of food and water supplies leading to widespread famine, a near total lack of all medical facilities and personnel, and the presence of large numbers of unburiable corpses leading to widespread epidemics, lack of shelter and heating fuels, lack of communication, all resulting in utter chaos. Obviously, nc matter how yol:l look at it a nuclear war means total an- nihilation. The road to safety is not in more and \better\ nuclear weapons. Rather the road to survival is thorough disar- mament. One example of a \better\ missile is the Pershing II. These have increased the probability of attack on war- ning. With this weapon the Soviets have six minutes to decide whether to launch their missiles or chance having them destroyed in their silos. (The United States faces a similar problem.) This principal of attack on warning only destabilizes and brings the world closer to nuclear destruction. Therefore we propose a nuclear freeze followed by immediate and drastic reductions as the only road for survival. Mike Factor '84 Shawne McCord '85 Demand Proof To the Editor: Once again, the Union College administration has deemed it necessary to raise the cost of a . Union College education. Is there anything we as students can do about it? Granted, many students of Union College feel that the matter is entirely out of their hands. Some, due to their general apathy on the matter, or perhaps because the smalllO percent raise will not affect them financially, will simply accept it and pass it off as being inevitable. We, as students of Union College, have the right to know the exact reasons for this in- crease. The increase does seem to be a little odd in a time when the college plans to spend large sums of money to renovate the Alwnni Gym and build a new student center. These incidents appear to me to be more than mere coincidence. Union College is an institution committed to a high quality liberal education. If this tuition hike will directly affect the quality of this education, I will accept it, but they will have to prove it to me. There is something we as students can do; we can demand proof that this increase will better the quality of a Union education. Let yourselves be heard. Write letters to the administration and ask them the simple question, \Why?\ I can see another such in- crease possible next year and in subsequent years. It seems to be the trend among small American universities. It will be a sad day indeed when the question of whether one goes to college is answered by whether they can pay their way, or through scholarships, play their way. Kenneth C. Budka Classof'87 <I --------------------------------------------- Stay at Home! To the Editor: I just got back from the Union Talent Show at the Dutch Hollow Pub and am forced to write this letter on behalf of those in attendance who ac- tually came to listen to the performances and also for those performing in the show. It was absolutely deplorable that one performer, after an- nouncing the title of his next selection, felt it necessary to add \for those of you who want to hear it,\ and for the emcee to ask the audience to be quiet if only for the judges' benefit. Even when these inconsiderate people were asked to leave if they wanted to continue their conversations, the suggestions were ignored and the talking did not cease. I realize that attendance to these sort of events is usually sparse and those involved with them are always trying to get more people to go, but please if you are going to be in- considerate, stay at home! LauraBurde Class of '86 All letters to the editor must be typed and submitted by 5 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request.

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Fehruart· 23. 1984 Come and enioy yourself at ROCK & ROLL PIZZA ' &·DUTCH HOLLOW We proudly present: FrL, Feb. 24- 4.; 30-7:30 p .. m. Dinner At Our Place $4.95' Smatl pizza ·w/topping of your choice 2 rned. sodas 2 choc. chip cookies This Week's SpeciaL· Two toppings for the price of one <less expensive item is free> Saturday,. Feb. 25th will be the last Dutchmen's Night of Winter Term. Reservat;ons must be made by Thursday night by 9:30p.m. for DUTCHMEN'S NIGHT. The first DUTCHMEN'S NIGHT for Spring Term will be Sat., April 7th. Good luck on your final exams. Have a nice winter recess. ' *Seniors* Mark the date on your calendar: Marc·h 1st (9: 30 p.m.-close) and start counting! 101 Days Until Graduation! Celebrate with your senior friends at the Pub with music · and , drink specials!!! n! Hk ·. 0 \fl u IDOL U your creative: ~ • poetry ~ : :::::;:~:; ~ • graphics ~ · description of art to Box , 2526 witl:l your box no and phone no. DEADLINE: ESPECJ AI .I. Y I' OR ·STL:DI·:~TS·J:-;·.n·;RESTf,l) I :'>I AMERICAN' STUDIES BIOLOGY . LITERATURE · ECOLOGY HISTORY PUBLICPI9LiCY ECO~OM ICS ENVIRONMENTAL STUE>IES OCF;ANOGRAPHY I h~.: Prn~.r~m· 0Hl.'n I)Uati(Ll'd unLit·rgraduatcs rhc ·r.aphy or .mm~c i:~;olot;:\Y• :and m:~tme JIOhcy. The Pragr.am opp{JrtlllntV .rn ·fncU!I- flOC' ~L:tnC.'W:r Of their studie~ nn .. nur mduJI!s practu,'ll) mstrucnott In .boarhllndhflg, cclcHJa) n:iVJw rc:l~unn~hrp tiJ llw .~~·a. Whdl.' hvm!!'·Ln l'nnpcrduvc hnuscs o~r ~llnnn, bo:uhwldmg, :md shipy:ard rcs1oi'anon, ;tlpng w11h a o\rm:ru;J·~ !udmR m~rmm~.: num:um. Sllltlcnrs .rake ·four •twelVe-day off§ftnrc rcs~u.ch rnp on hoard the 5channcr \\'llhani~-.u:q~.:dncd t'CIIUM.'S m. hLsmry. lncrattJtc, nl·c:ann~- It \' ll}rt'IL'.rnf. For trifo<m..,on , .. , DEAN WILLIAM DANIELS. AS SOON. AS. POSSI)!LE. Or Wrrre· Director; Willi;fris-Mysric Progritm, MystiC Seaport Museum, Inc., Mysric. Connecri~ur 06355 March .. J4 .UJ. ·; AV ~~~AI:IL~_ ~!.!.~.~- ~LJ.TC::H~ fi~LLQ~-~YB n n The fine$t ale brewed and bottled In Canada, by Mar.let Importing Co.,lnc., Great Neck, NllY. © 1982. ~----------------------------~------~~~~----~--------~---.~ r I ·I -1 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I' I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I· I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I· I I ., I I I I I I I I '

CONCORDIENSIS, FebruorJ' 13, 1984 Pagel3 r·--····--····•·•······••••••••••••••••••••••••••••···---· .. I . .. · . · I 1 FIN E SCHEDULE ! I . I I Winter Term 1983. 84 I I I I JMPO~TANT: This exam schedule is primarily for regular, \day'' undergraduate courses. A Majors)-Maleki~HU 116 . . . . I I . separate sche.d~~for. ~raduate Studies and •Continuing Education courses willbe announced, Physics 13-Introduction to Physics IJ, Sec. 3 (For Fresllman Engineers}-Maleki-HU 115 •. · and students m Section 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam E.S. 48-Introduction to Semiconductor Devices and Circuits I timeforthosecourses. · · · · Sec.1-Jump-;.BU204 I I Conflicts· in examinations should be reported to Mrs. D'Arnato iil the Office ()f the Registrar Sec. 2-Hassib-BU204 1 not laterthan March 2, 1984. A.O;P. to..- Pre-Calculus Mathematics-Yeater-BH 104 I Exaininations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to I 1 be used. · · WEDNESDAY, MARCH U-9:80-ll:OOa.m. I I . Freshmal) PreceptoriallO-Perception andPersuasion,Sec. 3-Rosenthal-BH 102 I AB-A.-ts Building Latin 11-Principlesof Latin n...;Toher-HU 113 I BH-Baily Hall Ecortomi~s 31-Mictoeconomic Analysis-Kl~in-ss 012 I BU~Butterfield Hall Economics40-Mabor Economic~r-Prospel'-88 112 · I Ht;J--Humaruties BUilding · English 20-Major English Authors II: Milton-Keats-Heinegg-IIU 117 I 1 N~NorthWing, Science/Eng. Center English 3S;-8tudies in Special Topics: Modem European ShortFiction-Frenhd-HU US ·= PY-Psycllology Laboratory English 72-Literature of the New Nation~tevensDII-'HU 112 I SS-Social Sciences BUilding History 17-Nineteenth Century America-Dudd.en-SS 113 . 1 SH-Steinmetz Hall History 51-Modern Germany: Bisnmrck to Hitler...;Hansen,..SS 115 1 I History63-,LatinAmerica and 'the UnitedStates-Dunar-88010 I · MONDAY, MAJl,CH 12• 9:80-ll:OO·a.tn. French to-Basic French I-McDermott-HU 014 I ' Fres~n ;pr~ceptorial1D-Perception and Persuasion, Sec. 8-J. Boyer-HU 112 }i'rench 133-Mastering Written French, Sec. 2-Thomas-Hl:ll14 1 1 ·. Classtcs.22-llistory of Rome: TheRepul>lic-Toher-HU 110 German lO,....Basic Gennan I, Sec.1-Kellenter-8Sll0 I Economics 135-Comparl'!tive Eco~omicSysteiilS-Reynolds-SS 110 German 11-Basic Germann, Sec. 2;...Warde-HU 110 1 English 71-Literature of the-lrishRen~ssance-.Fraiiet-HU 114 P.S. 12-Contemporary International Politics-Brown-ss 117 1 . 1 .. History 12-Prehistory: A Study ofthe Origins of Man andSociety-Dawson-SS016 Sociology tO-Introduction to Sociology, Sec. 1-Weiner-HU 115 I History 45--The Second World War Era-Harisen.-HU 019 Biology ll..;Topics in Contemporary Biology-B. Boyer, Schadler-N' 116 1 History 48-History o~Modern Britain:' 1688to World War II-Finkelstein-ss 115 Biology 138-Parasitology-Styles-BH 108 . . 1 I History 57..;Modern Jewish History-:Serk-ss 012 · Biology 144-Cytology-G. Sinitli-N 012 . · I Spanisll1()...Basic Spanisbi,..Qualtere-HU 117 Chemlstry 12-Fundamental Chemistry II I Philosophy70-History and Philosophy of Science I-Ludwig-HU 116 Sec. 1-8caife-BU 204 1 Political Science 12-Contemporaty International Politics, Sec. 2-Nichols-88 113 Sec. 2-.Anderson-BU 204 I PoliticalScience 47-Law and Public Policy-Board-8S117 St:Jc. 3-8caife-BU 204 · I I Political Science 62-Judicial Politics'-Daniels-8S 112 Math 2()-Mathematical Methods for the Social Sciences!I,.Sec.l-Canjar-BH 1M 1 • ·.· Sociology 38-Sociology of.Deviant Behavior-Higgins-HU 115 Math 136-Real Variable Theory I-Bick-BH 106 · I. Anthropology 12-Prehistory: A Study of the Origins of Man and Society-Dawson-ss·ot6 Physics 42-Great Ideas of Modern Physics-8chick-..SH 106 I Chem'istry !()-.Fundamental Chemistry I . · Physics 151 ... Modern Physics II-Bell-N 016 1 I Sec. 1-Foust ..... BU 204 Psychology 10-A First Courseiin.Psychology I Sec. 2-8chaefer-BU 204 Sec. 2-Greenberg-SS014 · 1 Sec. 3-8chaefer-BU 204 Sec. 3-Hqntley-PY 102 · 1 Geology 50-The Evolution of the Earth-Dobday-BH 207 Psychology 3()...Personality-Nydegger-PY 113 I Math 2()...Matbematical Methods of the Social Sciences I, Sec. 2-Zwicker-BH 104 Psychology 46-Introcution to Psychobiology-Markiewicz-,PY 213 I I Math 32-Abstract Algebra I-Rosenthal-BH 108 E.L.L. 5();...Special Topics in Geology-8tone-BH 201 1 Physics 36-Method.s of Thl;loretical P4ysics-Newman-N 016 E.S.lO-Mechanics I-Weiss-BU 109 I Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I, Sec. 2~hick .... BH 201 · E.S. 26-Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer-Ketcbum-N 222 It 1 Physics 13-Introductionto Physicsli, Sec. 2{For Freshman Engineers)-Davis-N 012 E.S. 31-Electrical Circuits and Devices I, Sec.1-chang-BH 207 1 I Psychology to-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 4--Gitdner-PY 113 E.S. 33-.Fluid Systems Analysis-8hanebrook-N 014 I Psychology 36-Principles of Learning-Markiewicz-PY 102 - I Psychology 42-Psychological Assessment-Spring-PY 201 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14- 2:00-4:00 p.m. 1 E.S. 20-Mechani.cs II-Panlilio-N 014 Latin 145-Cicero-J. Sargent-HU 110 I E.S. 22-8cience of Engineering Materials-Milillo-N 116 Economics 145-Managerial Economics-Kenney-ss 113 I 1 E.S. 33-Fluid Systems Analysis-Jewell-BU 106 English 76-The Modern Ameri.can Novel-Gado-HU 117 1 I C.E. 153....oEnviromnental Engineering II-8now-BU 300 Philosophy 144-Political Philosophy-Baker-au 112 I M.E. 30-Dynamics of Linear Systerns-Kennedy-N 210 · Political Science 21-Metbods .of Social Research-Huggins, Lyng, Weiner-88 115 1 Political Science 72-The Environment, Energy and AmericanPclitics-Underwood-8S 112 1 I MONDAY, MARCH 12. 2:00-4:00 p.m. Sociology 6()...Methods of Social Research ... Huggins, Lyng, Weiner-ss 11~ 1 Economics 11-Elementary Economics Statistics tO-Introduction to Statistics-Hohnes-BH 203 Sec. 1-Lewis-ss 113 Accounting 10-Financial Accounting I-Hurley-BH201 I Sec. 3-Kershner-Ss 115 Accounting 1()...Financial Accounting I-Minch-BH 206 . ·I Sec. 4-;Kershner-ss 115 Chemistry 32-0rgaruc Chemistry II · II History.20-Co.ntemporary America-Dunar-88112 Sec.1-Hull-BU204 ·· ·1 German 141-Die Goetezeit-Warde-HU 110 Sec. 2-McGahey-BU204 . Spanish.ll-Basic Spa\'ish II-Ginsberg-HU l16 Psychology 24-Social Psychology-Lipton-PY 113 I Biology 162-Introduction to Neurobiology-Olberg-N 116 Psychology 63-Practicum in auman Relations II-Girdner-PY 201 I I Math130-Complex Aanlysis-Zwicker-BH 102 C.S.135-0perating Systems-Hannay-BH 207 I Psychology64-Family Counseling TH!Prax.-Girdner-PY 204 1 E.S.ll-Engineering Graphics, Sec.1 & 2--Harlow-BU 204 THURSDAY, MARCH 15 ~ 9:00-11:00 a.m. I I E.S.18-Introduction'to Digital Computers French 11-Basic French TI-Wetterhall-HU 112 I Sec.l-Branch-N014 French 145-Studies in the French Theater from the Classic to the Modern-McDennott-HU 1 Sec. 2-Jtani;....N 012 114 I I C.S. 12-Programrning for the Sciences-Spallbolz-ss 117 M~th 10-Calculus I • Sec.1-Taylol'-8S 115 • 1 TUESDAY,MAIUJH13-9:00-ll:OOa.m. Sec.2-8tone-BH205 I I Arts 40-Introd.uction to Music, Part 1-Wilsoi).-AB 202 ' Matb 12-Cf,l].culQS n . I Classics 26- The Individual in Ancient Society-8orum-HU 116 Sec. 1-Hick-BH 102 1 Economics 20-Introd.uction to Statistical Analysis-Fried-88012 Stlc. 2-Muckenfuss-BH 104 I I Economics 33-Public Policy and American Industry-Schmidt-SS 113 Sec. 3-Rousseau-ss 113 I Economics 42-Macroeco,nomic Theory and Policy-Schaffer-88010 Sec. 4-Gillette-BH 203 1 English 43;...Humanities: Middle Ages &:Renaissance-Freund-HU 014 S(ic. 5-Barbanel-BH 108 I I .English 55..,.Sha1tespeare to 1600-Stevenson-HU 114 Sec. 6-Seiken-BlllOO History 41-Medieval Europe: Charlemagne to Dante-Sargent-ss 014 Math 14-Calculus m I 1 History55-The~ovietPer10d-Berk-8S112 Sec. 1-Stone-BH205. I ·I French 138-A Survey of French Literature I-McDermott-HU 119 Sec. 2-Canjar-BU 109 I German to--Basic German I, Sec. 2-Mache-HU 110 Sec. 3-Maddaus-BH 201 I German 133..,.Mastering Written Germa!l--l{ellenter-HU 117 Sec. 4-Sarma-BU 100 I I Russian 11-Basic Russian II-J~rnakaff-HU213 Sec. 5-Lysko-BH 201 Philosophy 20-ClassicalLogic-Kaminsky-HU 115 Matli iS-Introduction to Logic and Set Theory I 1 Political Science 11-Contemporary American Politics-Brown-HU 112 Sec.1-Taylor-8S 115 I I PoliticalScience54-CbineseForeignPolicy-Thurston-8S 117 Sec.2-Lysko-BH207 I Sociology 10-lntroduction to Sociology, S!!C. 2-Lyng-88 115 I Sociology 152-8ociology of Education-Weiner-ss 110 THURSDAY, MARCH 15 • 2:011-4:00 p.m. 1 I . Biology 111--lntroduction to Biology II, Sec. 1,.2 & 3-Frohlich-BU 204 Economics138-Quantitative Methods in Economics-Klein-8Sl13 . 1 Biology 62-World Agriculture-George-N 116 Hebrew ll .... Basic Hebrew II-'Heckelman-HU 110 1 Biology 170-Genel'al and Comparative Endocrinology-Butterstein-BH 207 Philosophy 17 -sex and Society-Baker-HU 112 1 I Chemistry 154-Pbysical Chemistry III-Hayes ... BU 104 Philosophy 32A-Modern Philosophy: Descartes through Leibniz.-Ludwig-HU 114 · Math 2()...Matberiultieal Methods for the Social Sciences, Sec. 3-Niefeld-138 205 Sociology 128-Sociology of Medicine-Lyng-88 112 I I Math 28-;ProbabilitY ,Sec. 2-Barbanel-BH 108 Statistics nO-Introduction to Statistical Methods-Lamhrinos-BH 203 1 I Math 3()...0rdinaryDifferential Equations, Sec. 2-Muckenfuss-BH 104 Chemistry W2-Polymer Chemistry I-Anderson-N 012 . I Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I, Sec. 3--Newman-SH 106 Psychology 35-Industrial-Organizational Psychology-Lipton-PY 113 I Psychology lo-A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 3-Lipton--PY 113 Psychology 49-Clinical Models of Psychotherapyii-Dowling-?Y 213 1 I Psychology 31-Abnormal Psychology-Nydegger-PY 102 ' C.E.10-Inttod~ction to Cornmunications-Griggs-BU 109 Psychology ag..:.Psychology of Memory and Thinking-Greenberg-PY 213 - C.S.l1-FORTRAN Programming for the Social Sciences-Albright-BH201 I 1 Psychology 62-Praticum in Human Relations I-Girdner-PY 204 C.S. 37-8tructured Programming-8chwarz-BH 207 · 1 I E.L.L.12-Homes, Buijdings and Engineering Principles-Harlow-BU 109 C.S.l30-Data Structures-Federighi-BH 205 I . E.S. 22-8cience of Engineering Materials-Kapp-N 014 1 . E.S. 30-Mechani.cs of Deformable Solids-Burke-N 210 FRIDAY, MARCH 16-9:00..11:00 a.m. I I E .. S. 31.-Electrical Circuits and D~vices I, Sec. 2-Kump-BH 203 Economics 10-Elementary E;conomics, Sec.l-Prosper-SS 115 C.E. 128-Structures I -Lakhanpal.-BU 106 Economics 11-Elementary Economics,.Sec. 2-Kenney-SS 112 I I E.E. 144-Communications Systems I-Chang-BH 201 Econoinics 144-Intemational E:conomics-Phaup-SS 117 I I English 10-Fundainentals of Composition-Frazier-HU 116 · ' TUESDAY, MARCII13- 2:~:00 p.in. . French 133-Mastering Written French, Sec. 1-Warger-HU 110 I I Greek 11-Principles of Greek II-Sargent-HU 110 German.ll-Basic German II, Sec.l-Kellenter-HU 117 1 I . Economics 10-Elementary Economics, Sec. 2-Fried-SS 117 Chemistry 142-Chemical Instrumentation-Werner-N' 014 I· German u .... Basic German II, Sec. 1-Kellenter .... BU 117 . Geology tO-Physical Geology ..... Dobday-BU 109 I Russian 134-Intermediate Russian III-Jerriakoff-HU 116 Math 28-Probability, Sec.l-8eiken-BH 201 . I I Biology 16-Introduction to Biology I Math. SO-Ordinary :Qifferential Equations, Sec. 1-Maddaus-BH 108 I Sec. l-8chadler-SS 115 'Physics 47-Photography-Jones-N 016 I Sec. 2-Tobiessen-SS 115 Physics 13-Introduction to Physics II (For Freshman Engineers), Sec.1-1'itus-8H 106 I I Sec. 3-Tobiessen-SS115 . Psychology 10--AFirst Course in Psychology, Sec.l-D'Andrea-PY 113 1 Biology 24-Genetics andEvolution-J. Boyer, Butzel--BH 207 .- Psychology 20-Statistical Methods in Psychology-Greenberg-PY 213 I Biology 160-FWictional Histology al)d Organology-Roth, B. Boyer-BH205 E.S. 26-Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer ... Burke-N210 I I Physics 11-Introduction to Physics I, Sec.l-Reich..SS 112 Q.E.143-Foundations and Concrete Construction-Griggs-BU lOl 1 Physics 13-Introduction to Pby~ics II (Engineering, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics C.S. 34-COBOL and Information Ptocessing-Schwarz-BH 104 I I '------~-------------~-------------·-·····················' ,..., .

Page 14 CONCORDIENS/S,. Februart• 23, 1984 Ul .- . - ~ ~ ~ ~

~ • ~ • • CONCORDIENSIS. . . . 'Fe/Jruary 21,1984 -----=.:..::.:_~---,------ 0 m 0 L.(j • • co ~ I .. 0 C'f) ·~ M J .. I t 0 N ~ • I ~ I \\\' ,.. 'I

Page 16 CONCORD/ENS/5~ February 23, 1984 CAMPUS NEWS SCHOLARSHIPS The Auxiliary to the American Osteopathic Association is offering scholarships for the study of· osteopathic medicine. Eligibility is based on both high scholastic standing and financial need. More in- formation and applications are available in the Financial Aid Office. The Electrical Women's Round Table, Inc., offers a $2,000 annual fellowship to a woman studying for a career in a field related to electrical energy. The award is based on both scholarsbip and need. More information and ap- plications are available in the Financial Aid Office. The President's Committee on Mental Retardation is of- fering a $5,000 scholarship for advanced study in the field of mental retardation. To be eligible you Inust have a 3.0 GPA, show financial need, and be able to prove your par- ticipation in volunteer activities with mentally retarded persons. More information and ap- plications are available in the Financial Aid Office. Bell Laboratories offers fellowships and grants to women ~ e~ering a doctoral program in a science or engineering field. More in- formation and applications are available in tile Financial Aid Office. The Rotary Fotmdation of Rotary International is off.ering an exciting an·ay of scholarships to use for study abroad at all levels of education. Generally, tuition, room and board are paid by the Rotary Foundation. For more infonnation, stop by the Financial Aiel Office. The Financial Aid Office has information on scholarship assistance to minority students in the graduate study of business, engineering, law and political scienc:e. Women's Commission Prizes The President's Commission on the Status of Women at Union College announ\(!eS that they will be accepting Prize Day award nominations .in three major areas: I. Scholarship Senior Thesis Prize: to the student whose senior thesis makes the greatest contribution to scholarship on women. Nominations open to students and faculty submitting senior theses written prior to spring term. - Junior Scholarship Prize: to the junior st11dent who shows the most scholarly ac- complishment in an area of interest and importance to women. Nominations are open to faculty offering documentation of accomplishments. II. Community Service Comm.Wiity Service Award: to the student who has devoted the most time and energy to furthering the cause of women at Union. Nominations will be accepte<! from campus organizations submitting documentation. III. Athletics 1) Senior Award: to the senior who has done the most all- around to pr()mote sports for women at Union. 2) to the student (except senior) who has shown the most promise in the area of woman's sports. Nominations for both athletic awards will be accepted from coaches and team members submitting documentation. Petitions and nominating materials have been sent to the appropriate departments and organizations. Deadline for entries is Wednesday, March 28. For further information, con- tact: Liz Lane, Library Faye Dudden, History Susan Rapaport, Administration Sue Varmette, Computer Center Every fourth year, the Mrs. Edwin L. Rich Prize is awarded to the student \who has built the best collection of books for use during college.\ For 1984, the award will be about $200.00. The collection should be a com- prehensive and humane one, promoting the development of both character and intellect. For more information contact Ann M. Seemann; Acting Librarian. The deadline for the submission . of list - and description is March 28. Judging will take place April 9- 12 at the students' residences. To encourage college students interested in Business Administration and related fields to consider careers in the area of Purchasing, the Pur- chasing Management Association of Eastern New York will award two scholar- ships in the amount of $650.00 each for the 1984-1985 academic year. Additionally, each award includes a one year dues-free membership in the Association and the opportunity to attend, at no cost, all education meetings and seminars sponsored by the Association. 'To apply for the award, the students should obtain an ap- plication form from the financial aids office at his-her college, or contact: Carl E. Gardner, CPM, Albany Steel & Iron Supply Co., Inc., P.O. Box 4006, Albany, New York 12204. CARE'ER NEW~ JOHN HANCOCK INS. CO. will be recruiting on March 5~ 1984, for Sales Representatives. Sign up in Career Center on February 27. Also, please let Mary Rodman know if you have had any company offers. INTERNSHIPS (more infor. avallable in CDC) Reuben H. Donnelly: plan- ning a summer internship for students completing their Junior year. The program of- fers an exciting opportunity for interns to learn about the sales and marketing fields. · The New York Hospital: Cornell Medical Center runs a Sunan1er Volunteer Program designed for students who are seriously considering careers in the mental health field. The Wediko Summer Program: loolting for students who desire employment and. practicum experience as a staff member of one of the nation's oldest and largest short-term psychoeducational treatment programs for children. Tbe Summer Intern Teaching Program: Smith College offers six weeks of intensive training to liberal arts graduates who plan to teach in elementary and secondary schools. The ·Assembly Summer Intern Program: Provides an opportunity for 10 to 20 students to work on research projects supervised by Assembly professional research staff. College students who have completed their junior year by . June 1984 may apply. All ap- plicants must be New York State residents. Deadline: March 31. Information Sesston: Macy's Executive Management Program, Mon., Feb. 27,7 p.m., place TBA, Speaker: John Feinsot, Union alumnus. 'Internships.: Control Data: Summer · Internships are available for students entering their Junior or Senior year. Program is designed to provide experience and income for students majoring in Engineering, Computer SCience and Accounting. Deadline: March 1. The Dow Jones Newspaper Fund: Seniors who are minority students interested in news c~reers are invited to apply to the 1984 Minority Editing Program. Applications are available in the ·Career Development Center. Deadline: March 1. Baltimore Museum of Art: . Summer internship for Juniors and Seniors who are interested in a career in museum work. Info. available in CDE. Deadline: March 15. City of New York Department of Personnel: Recruitment is now underway for two in- ternships in .City government: the Urban Fellows Program & the Summer Management Intern Program. The Urban Fellows Program . offers 20 seniors, recent graduates, and graduate students the op- portunity to work in high levels of City agencies and mayoral offices. The Summer Management Intern Program provides 40 jUniors, seniors and 1984 graduates with work ex- perience in City government. Info & applications available in CDC. Deadline for Urban Fellows: March 15; for Summer Management Interns: March 1. The Psychiatric Institute of Washington, D.C.: Ten week internship~ providing psychiatric experience for students interested in Mental Health Careers are available for students entering their Senior year, or recent graduates. Emphasis is placed on providing the intern with learning experiences and ex- posing them to the roles of various disciplines of the health team. Applications are available in the CDC. Deadline: March 1. Summer Jobs at Watervliet Arsenal The following positions are open under the 1984 Federal Summer Hire Program at Watervliet Arsenal: Two years college or experience-Clerical: Clerk-Typist arid Computer Clerk. Non-clerical-Recreation Aid (Life Guard); Mechanical Engineering Technician and Electrical Engineering Technician. Four year college degree as of June 1984--Computer Assistant; Mechanical Engineering Technician; Electrical Engineering Technician; Mathematician; Chemist and Physicist. · Applications ·accepted Feb. 15-March 15; must be post- marked by March 15. More information and applications available in CDC. These positions are very competitive. _ NOTE: Seniors interested in permanent positions, contact William Cameron at 266~5679. CLUB NEWS \ The Union College Student Environmental Alliance {SEA Club) is an environmental awareness and action group which sponsors lectures, lobbies f9r political action, recycles papers, etc. This worthwhile club needs support from our campus. If you are interested in environmental issues, then get involved in SEA! See Mrs. Marra in Student Activities for more information. Folk Group will meet at 6:30 p.m. Sunday, ·Febmary 26th to rehearse before leading the Congregation in song at the 7:30 p.m. Mass. Sunday, February 26th, Most Reverend Howard J. Hubbard, D.D., Bishop of Albany will be the celebrant at the 7 :30 p.m. Mass at St. John tile Evangelist Church. The Bishop will give the homily onthis occasion and his thoughts will be aimed toward the College-student population. The Newman Club is hosting a pizza and coke teception for Bishop Howard J. Hubbard at 9:00 p.m. on February 26th in the Dutch Hollow Pub. All are invited to come and talk in- formally with the Bishop. Newman Club Meeting-- Monday, February 27th, 8:00 p.m. Carnegie, 4th Floor Lounge. · Campus Ministry presents- Wednesday evening lecture series. February 29th, at 8:00 p.m, in the 4tll Floor Lounge of Carnegie Bob Schaefer, Profess!)r~Chairperson, Che- mistry Department at Union will speak on \Science and Religion.\ All welcome. Bible Study on Gospel of Matthew, Thursday, March 1st, 4:00 p.m. Campus Ministry Office. FINANCIAL AID . Financial AiO applications are now· available for 198485. Please pick · up yours at . financial aid office in Becker. J{all. (Remember YQU must ~ . reap,ply every year.) FAF's must be mailed .by March 1 so . that all forins are received by the April 15 deadline. CLASSIFIEDS . FOR SALE: Great car-1974 Buick Apollo, 70,000 miles. $800 negotiable, Blaupunkt am-fm cassette. Call Roberta 374~769, Subletter wanted: Nice 1 bedroom apartment around Union St. area. June-August call 459-7149. SPEAKERS Irish Poet Tom Paulin will visit Union on Feb. 29th. He will lecture on \Poetry and: Politics in Northern I:reland,\ Wed- nesday at 3:30 in. the Hwnanities Faculty Lounge. He will give a.poetry reading in the same place, at 8 p.m. Dr. Alden Haffner, Associate Chancellor for Health Sciences, State University of New York will speak on Development of Queens Clinical Campus: A - Case Study on February 23, 1984-3:45 p.m .. in Room 312, Batley Ball, Union College. February 23: Friendships, Theatre Party to Proctor's is speaker--Janet Roehr. Spon- being sponsored by the sored by Evening Branch of Newman Club, Friday, March Women's Alliance of the 2, 8:00p.m. to see ''Bayanihan Unitarian Church~ 1221 Wendell. Philippine Dance Company.'' 1 h Avenue. Thursday, 6:15 p.m. price tickets are available· lh Dinner and Program $4.50; hour before the performance for Program only $1.00 (7 !45). Call $6.25 or $4Ji0 with a student ID. Jeanne Doceur, 370-3902 for We will meet in front of Car- more information including negie at 7: 15 and go as a group. child care. - (_ ~ ·'t~l•t• ,,0 ·e· er:· ~-r Jua ~ .. · tht· · THE so·s LAWYER'S ·.· . ASSISTANT · · · · The Lawyer's Assistant Program at Adelphi University is and oldest ABA-approved program of its kind in. New York State, with more than 4,000 graduates. Salaries at all levels have increased with the extraordinary growth ofthis profession, and t.op lawyer's assistants earn as much as $32,000. Come'lb anlnformatlonSealon'and team: ... ~ 85% of our graduates who seek pejralegal employment,have fQund It ••• WJQhundreds of lawyers allcl other employers send us their requests for our graduates .. • wta, Adelphi graduates !lave been hired by more than 650 llwflrms, corporaUons and govern· meJillll agencies throughout the greater New York me narea. Courses offered in: GARDEN CITY, L.l., HUNTINGTON, Ll., and MANHATTAN. For a catalOg and an invitation to the next information session, mail this coupon today, or telephone right now: (516) 663-1004 ~~~E::f;-~--- ---A- OII'Cieft.C:~. LI.,I'U. 11530 .... In Coc,pe,a&n with The lifatlonal Center forPu.aeg.l Training. ADAIIII Neme ... ·-----------~------ ~----------------~---------- - - .. - R s rna tro: ma ph~ col goc Se1 rec SYI NE NY A CA do' Ea sell spa Arc 382 v spe yot nee nin nee aw, Cal f tut Chc Att Un 374 1 Ca: Ca1

CONCOIUJIENSIS. February 23, 1984 Page17 • CAMPU~NEWS HELP WANTED. I information please contact Bill or Kathy at 374-1492 or 374-5372. TERMS ABROAD Squeaker.,.....we all apologize 'for the GRAVE mistake last .week. Make an appearance at ========== .-our party next term. Miss you. business;· Kahlua sombreros; · Mike Reno on Fantasy Island; Hair like Who? P.H.; do you need a shopping cart? ; pays of our Lives-Please watch it for me. Friends forever. Love, Tazmanian WANTED.: Creative, energetic individual to work consistently 2-4 hours per week, placing and filling posters on c~mpus. Earn $.500 or more each school year. Call 1.:S00-243~ 6679, Sales Assistant to sales manager of Medical. Elec- tronics firm with projects in marketing electrocardiogra- phs. Must have· two years college, e:x:cell~nt writing skills, good verbal skills, some typing. Send resume and Salary req·uirements to: MEDICAL SYSTEMS CORP., 239' GREAT NECK ROAD, GREA'l' NECK, NY 11021. Are you in need of extra CASH, but don't want to be tied down to specific work hours? Earn money on commission selling AVON products in your spar.etime! Great bonuses, too. Area near campus. Call Lori 382-9545. Prefer student that lives locally so they can work through the summer. Hrs. 5-9, Sixteen hrs. a week,. lh day on Sat. Please contact Moffett's Liquor Store, VanVranken Ave. Schenectady af 346-0392. Typing done for students. \ Please contact 346·5104 Niskayuna area; 355-3239-- Knows medical terrpinology or 377-4215-scotia area. Office of Computer Services has surtuner positions available for Student Programmers, Consultants, Technicia-ns, ·Operators and Assistants. All positions are 40 hours per week at $5.00 per hour. Effective dates of employment are bet· ween June 11 and September 14. Students will be e:tqJected to work l1 of the 14 designated weeks. Position descriptions and applications for employment are available in the Personnel . Dept., Silliman Hall. Deadline for applications in the Per- sonnel Dept. is March 9. Students interested in knowing about the American University Was;hington Semester (not to be confused with Union's Spring Term Program ill Washington) program for Fall, 1984 shotild attend a short informational meeting. on Monday, Februa~y 27 at 12: 30 p.m.. in Social Sciences 115. Prof. Tidlnarch (SS 215) has .additional information and application forms. All ap· plication materials must be submitted to American University by April 4. Students who are planning a Union Tenn Abroad for next year...;These are the deadlines for applications to be in the Terms Abroad Office . . . Union• York Exchange . . . deadline is February 24 Summer Socialized Medicine Program ... deadline is March 1. Winter, 1985 programs in Israel, Greece or Mexico .. . . deadline is April 26 • Please make note of these deadlines, as late applications create difficulties for both the student and the administrators of the programs. 2nd Floor DO YOU ENJOY PHOTOGRAPHY? Here's your chance to put your. hobby to good use. The FRESHMAN RECORD needs photographers and . developers for its ,photo section of faculty and ad- ministration depa&tments. Gome to 9ur organizational meeting on Monday, Feb. 27 in Strauss Lounge, Carnegie. Rob-Thanks so much for the Valentine's flower. Give me .a call' sometime. Jill Lo, hope you feel better soon. Lisa · Pat, WE WANT YOUR BODY! ! -2 Losers BOZO~Maybe we'll come back next year to see you when you're a senior . . .-THE 5 SENIORS Tracy--1'~ so glad you picked me over Paul. What are you doing Saturday night? Love, your one and only, AUSTIN Dear Stack, I can't wait any longer! -Frustrated GO UNION HOCKEY!! Congrats on a great season! Playoffs await . . . pass. shoot, SCORE!!! -A Devoted Fan To FIJI-Get a real pledge class! From two girls that enjoyed the present brothers. Dear Ann & Amy, Spring tenn is just around the corner- can't wait till We're finally all together again. We~ miM you very much. Love, 3-5 SLG's Dear Ka & Skyd, I kllow it's been a long and cold winter, but together, we'll see spring again. I love you. -Nance Froggy, Organic is almost over and pretty soon We'll get to go \bye-bye.\ Good luck on your tests tomorrow and let's have a wild weekend! Love, J Wittie W.-l'm psyched for you to become a Delta Gamma! -love, your secret sister. Chris K. (SDT)-Congrats on your initiation (sorry so late). Can't wait to see ya at DU tomorrow. Want to earn MONEY to spend on spring vacation? Set your own hours and work right near campus! Unlimited ear- ning potential! No experience necessary. Extra prizes awarded. For more information Call LORI-382•9545. PERSONALS' Dear Sue M. I want your body desperately!! l! Love always, ..,_ Your secret admirer in Rm ? CONCERT TICKETS for Duran Duran! I have two for the March 3rd performance at Syracuse Univ. Call Tom at 6638. . I B.S. Student requires private tutoring ·(on campus) in Chemistry and Trigonometry. Attractive rate for interested Union College student. Call 399• 3749. The Film Committee Presents: \The Deerhunter\ on February 28; 7 & 10 in SS016. $1.00 admission. Dear Heidi: Have a great birthday and remember that we are going to miss you. Love, Debbie and Ellen Telephone . sales-evenings- Cash pay. Two blocks from Campus on Union St. For more \Risky Business\ on February 24-26 at 7, 9 and 11 in SS016. $LOO admission. Hey you MORON-Now that you have gotten a personal, you have to read the paper! U.S. NAVV MEDICINE MEDICAL SCHOOL SCHOlARSHIP PROGRAM Ate you seeking a way to help finance your medical school education? The NAVY has a perfect opportunity In Its Medical School Scholarship program. BENEFITS • Full tuition and edueational fees • $479.00 per month stipend • Commission as a United States Naval Officer . • Internship & Residency training available upon graduation . • Practice at on' ofZ3 hospitals nationwade or nine overseas locations OBLIGATION • A minimum of 3 years after graduation. • 45 days of required annu•l active duty that can be spent In Navy derkShips, (required, elective, clinical or research) or at Officer Indoctrination School. , . BASIC QUALIFICATIONS •· U.S. citizen • Excellent professional references • AccePted to an AMA approved medical school . APPLICATION DEADLINE: MARCH 1, 1984 For further Information. write or call: LT ~ John Romac Medical Officer Program -- Leo w. O'Brien Federal Bldg ..... _,., NY 12207 472'·4424 Fox BOXER SHORTS ARE AMAAZZliNNGLY cool! ! Huh. ZBT~We are laughing at the superior intellect!! -Phi Neat Guys ... JICK-You're a pig!!! BLOOP- Debbie-Are you depressed? One more time?'?? Love your PIG Dear Spring Pledges, We're psyched to have you. Enjoy pledging and welcome. The Fall Pledges Fall Pi Alpha's- We're almost there. It's been great, let's finish off inspiration week RIGHT! !·I Love your President Weenie, .none of your Lyn-1 had a great time on Sat. nite. Let's do it again sometime! -Lise IGUANA LOVER~no you want my tail? -SCROD BOOGENS RULE!! Lisa B. & DLeo: Lise, you make a nice piece of chopped liver. Let's all be wild women soon! Thanks for the friendship. Maine, Florida, Larchmont or Poughkeepsie this swnmer? Rm. 250 & 1-5 of 357 - Bloop! Bloop! Bloop! Bleep! Bloop! Mugwump! Bloop! Bleep! Bloop! Bloop! Mugwump! Bloop! Bloop! Bleep! meep! ++Anonymous PERSON AU) & CLASSIFIED ADS Must be typed and submitted to the Concordy office or Box 2577 by 5 p.m. Tuesday. Forms are available at the Box Office It's not over yet • •. An organizational meeting will be held for all girls who.are interested in starting a ·Fourth Sorority Tuesday, March 6 7:30p.m • 4th Fl. Carnegie A discussion will be held concerning the possibility of a fourth sorority without housing. Attendance is extremely important! if interested but unable to attend please contact Shari or Nora at 6546

. -· Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, Februory13, 1981 . ~ ~0~~· . o~~t . ~ C 0 Super Swim Classic · A viorld premiere by Dan Ellentuck Union College Leukemia .Super Swim Classic Sunday, February 26 Fraternities/Sororities 12:00 · 2:00 p.m. February 25-March 18 Five yot;!ng people face the onset of the 2oth Century -and their own adulthood -with explosive results.- Corporate sponsor: Ocean Data Systems, Inc. Performances: Tuesday-Saturday 8:00pm; Sunday 2:~0pm andWednesday, Feb~ 29, 2.:30 pm Swim Team/Swim Clubs 2:00 ·4:00p.m. Others 4:00 ·8:00p.m. Union College Pool in the Alumni Gym Won't you swim a lap to save lives? To benefit Leukemia Society of America Resea.ich Education-Patient Assistance • PRIZES • T-Shirt to each swimmer who collects $25 or more Checkbook calculator to each swimmer who coUects over $50 Grand Pri7P' Portable SONY color T.V. to person who collects the most money Keg of beer to Fraternity, Sorority, Club or organization which brings in the most m_oney. . Non Student Tickets $8-$13 Stu~entswJth 1.0. Y2 price Tuesday-Thursday ev~nings, and Sunday Matinee. Limited availability30minutes before curta)n. H 1 North Pearl Street, Albany, New Yor~ 518-462-4534 1icketsavailable at The Markel Theatre andCommunityiBox Offices. MasterCard and VISA accepted. (No refunds or exchanges.) IFC Workshop Series Leadership Training wit )'I Pat Matteo; Asst. Director, career Center You may bring pledge money and donations to the pool When you come to swim. For further information, call Deborah Casaceli at the Leukemia Society 438·3583. 7:30-9 p.m. Monday, Feb. 27,1984 Fourth Floor Lounge, Carnegie :) e. rYe jotA. Be.:li€?r · We, wt U b~ Open 7riJay 7~.b. ~'t!b ln the. Ca\ba1'Yl.t 'Roorrz_ ' O~n 'if: 3o P\! - J.:i:?tf!-t,, t.ve: will. Stdl ~ t:pe'n 5tc.n.. • ?11u.1z, i !de.d. in tlr.e ~ 7lA.iff!J 7ibpt!~ Delta Upsilon's First Annual Spring Break Party Come run your feet thru the $ands of a D.U. beach Saturday, March 3 BUILD YOUR SKILLS 10· BOOST YOUR SCOIIEI PREPARE FOR: LSAT LIVE CLASSES · , • TEST-N-TAPE® LIBRARY • REINFORCEMENT TEST· • HOMESTUDY PACKtT CLASSES STARHNG At Union on March 31 you are cordially invited to attend CABARET 8:45 & 10:45 shows tonite ACTI Luke Fannon the amazing juggler ACTll Lori Cooper Despina Nicholas &friends accompanied by Steve Koelbel Tickets on sale now at Student Activities Desk . . Navy Gold: Forged In a Tradition of Excellence Because the Officers wearing it are the best in the world at what they do ... they have to be It takes a special breed of aviator to meet the challenges of Naval Aviation. Strong, dedicated and professional men who can control the world's most sophisticated aircraft. There's no room over the oceans for pilots that are second-best. ' Beneath the surface pulses a unique environment few will ever challenge. Only an· uncompromised standard of excellence earns a submariner his dolphins. The Nav:Y Nuclear Propulsion Officers wear them. To find out if you ire qualified, see the Navy Represen- tative that will be in the Campus Center on MarchSe or 'call collect (518) 472·4414 · Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast. 0 0 Cong tr~ckst individ Union track 1 .for hi Pentat: Miss 21 1 h of meet. finishe record .c c. c:i 1/) We Defe1 State Distric Tournll Alban~ partici: Rose,' Union other l tight charac tournaj all of tourna: the re1 R.P.I. Alban~ St. Rm •

0 0 CONqORDIENSJS. February 23, 1984 Page19 •' Ath·lete of. t:he Wee.k . - . . .. By DREW' HURLEY Sports Staff Congratulations to Dutchmen trackSters Jenny Snover for.her individual performance fu rthe Union Women's Invitational track meet and Gary Wenner .for his perfonnance in the Pentathalon at Army. Miss Snover accounted for 21112 of}lerteams 54 points in the meet. In .the high jump she finished third, tying · a school record, with a 5 foot jump. She gained another third in the hurdles with a· time of 8.9 sec. Jenny then tied her fastest time of the year in the 500 recording a . 1:26 and gaining a second place finish, Snover also ran the first leg on · the mile rel~y team which gained a third place finish. l .. Jenny, a sophomore from Brightwaters, NY, is a vital part qf Union's track program. As a sophomore, Miss Snover captained Union's women's cross country team and as a fre13hman .she won the MVP on both the women's indoor and outdoor track teams. Best of luck to jenny~ in postseason track competition. Gary Wenner, elder jump. Wenner, a. pole vault specialjst fo[' Union's track teams, also finisb.ed fourth in the 1,000 m with a time of 2:53. .The four year·letter winner in indoor track will match those letters in outdoor track this spring. Gary,. a second year captain for -the indoor track team and a Sigma Chi brother; is also very active in Union;s intramura.l program. , Congrattilations to. Gary and good luck in the Union Inyita..tional meet on Mar-ch 3rd. Behind the Scenes ••• $,ports Talk· With SCOTT WYKOFF Sports Staff Each term I like to dedicate a column and write about people behind the scenes of Union's athletic program. In previoll$ editions I've talked about the jobs done by the Sports Infor- mation Department and the work put in by the Athletic training staff. This week we'll take a look a,t some behind the scenes people that rarely get any sort of recognition for the many hours put in for Union sports. . Deep under the Ahnnni Gym a inan named Bob Ridings works inside the Cage. Not a cage but rather The Cage, home seem to keep the three busy during a contest. Even with the long hours put in by Jim, Lou and John, they are always willing to lend a hand whenever needed. This reporter still owes Jim a few cold ones for help he has given me during home radio broadcasts. .c c. statesman of the men's track pr.ogram finished an impressive second out of seven in the guest division of the pentathalon at Army's Invitational meet. Gary accumulated 2726 points by finishing fourth in the 60m hurdles, fourth in the shotput with a 34 foot toss, fifth in the highjump with a jump of5 foot 6 and he gained a third in the long -5 of every uniform worn by .c: Dutchman athletic teams. o. Though Bob is most famous for 0 shooting off the Union Cannon vi at football games, his major Everyone· knows that Charlie Morrison is the Union hockey coach and Gill Egan is the leading scorer, but what about names like Kathy Natole, Lynn Fredericks, Peter Eibe, John Adams and Mark Pratico. Though not as familiar to the typical fan as Morrison or Egan, their contribution to Skating Dutchman Hockey is just as important. These six make up the line-up that keeps Achilles one of the best run rinks in .all of college hockey. Kathy acts as rink secretary, ticket office head, manager and she even finds time to be the Skating Dutchman's biggest and most loyal supporter. As if she doesn't get enough of the rink atmosphere during the week, 7:30 am-10:00 pm for home game days, she tries to make what Skating Dutchman road contests she can possibly get to. In last Saturday's loss to North Adams on the road Kathy lost her voice rooting for the Dutc~en. As much as anyone, Kathy Will enjoy Union's first trip to the playoffs as she has been the one to receive the phone call over the past few years notifying the squad that they just missed the playoffs. ci - tl') Gary Wenner Women Hoo:psters Falter In By LISA FOLEY Sports Staff Defending champion Albany State won the Fifth Capital District Women's Basketball Toutnament last weekend at Albany State. All the team's participating, College of St, Rose, Albany State, R.P.I. and Union beat at least one of the other teams in the field. The tight tournament became characterized as 'any team;s tournament.' Albany State beat all of the other teams in the tournamentat least once during the regular season. Union and R.P.I. · successfully downed Albany State during the season. St. Rose beat Union and R.P.I. but lost to Albany State. According to .Albany's second year coach, Patti Becker, her . team's strength is aggressiveness which com- pensates for their lack of height. In the first round Union ·met with the College of St. Rose. Union began the game slowly and had· to play a come from behind game according to assistant coach · Charlyn Roberts. Down by nine points at the start of the second half, Union came on .to the court fired up. Tri Captaip:'s Rebecca- Clemente and Cay Lynch led the team bOth scoring 18 points with five minutes remaining in the game, by effectively containing After Union's first play-off • game '1ft seven years e e • ·Come to the Races! f~n for all I I 1 •-.._ Thorobred racing • on film· · Chi Psi Lodge Post Time 11 :00 p.m. Saturday, Feb. 25 proper attire requested JenrtY snover Tourney ' the S(. Rose team with a full court press. But two turnovers completed by St. Rose's high scorer, Deann Greco, put the game ·out of Union's reach. St. Rose downed Union finally, 73~ 67. In the cons()lation game Union· came out onto the court determined to beat R.P.I. .Sopho.mores. Clemente and Patty Richarcls led. the team in scoring adding 18 points and 13 points respectively for the Dutch women.· Kim Mangino and Barbata Weisinger helped on the· boards, each brought downeight rebotrnds. The Union team suffered a frustrating loss against R.P.I. Without the help of Co..captain Jlllie Miller who has added a season total of 101 rebounds and i69 points, the Union team suffered a height , disadvantage. But according to Charlyn Roberts the big dif- ference in the game came down to turnovers; R.P.r. coming up with ten m()re than Union. R.P.I .. edged the Union round- bailers 6~3. Union's. season may keep them in contention for the Nyack Tonrnament scheduled for March 2nd. Social Co111ninee Organizational Meeting· for CAMP UNION Today 1:30 p.m. 4tll Floor Carnegie responsibilities revolve around outfitting the many in- t.ercollegiate athletes on campus. What makes Bob 'standout is his knack for getting to·know just about every athlete that comes by the Cage to pick up their respective practice or . game uniforms. Bob has spent many a late night or early morning back in the Cage working feverishly to ensure that every athlete can be out- fitted for both. practice and games. So now tnat you know whose responsible for getting the Dutchman dressed let's take a look at who makes sure all the facilities are in shape for practices and games. Lou Andrews, Jim Carafano and John Mydlowski spend their respective days working bet- ween the Field House, our Astro Turf Field, and Alumni Gym. All three will admit that though the Winter and spring are busy, the fall athletic season can turn out to be down right hectic. On the day of a home f.{)otbali game, all three· fmd· themselves arriving at the field.a good three and a half hours prior to the opening kick off.· Since the facility is not enclosed, · they must secure the field to ensure that all fans either purchase a ticket or show an I.D., for ad- mittance. Even after all the pre- game preparations are com- pletedon't think that their job is done. Wind blowrt goal posts and malfunctioning scoreboards Lynn Fredericks is probably best known for his between period spins around the rink on the Zamboni, but his con- tribution goes much farther than that. Lynn takes care of just about every odd job that pops up for both the players and coaches. From sharpening every pair of skates worn to fil@g the doors. that .open-to let the Zamboni on the ice. In addition to his regular hours, Lynn travels with the squad on all road games. Hats off to all these behind the scenes. people that help make Union's athletic department as good as any to be foWld across the country. Next time you watch a Dutchmen team compete you'll know that a lot of people play important roles behind the scenes. l(estaural1t ard 13ar .S01 111\fliE .ST. 3q3. {)SCJIJ Dear: Union C-ollege Faculty, Students, Staff We serve lunch, too! Daily Hot Specials . Excellent Freshly-Made Desserts Give Us A Try!

10 c ,_ 0 X. f./) X. c: 10 '-· u. >- .0 ~ .t: 0. 10 c 1.. ~ en X. c 10 ,_ IL )o. .c 0 .... 0 J:. 0. Page20 CONCORDIENSJS, Fehruor.J'13 •. 1984 SPORTS • e • face North Adams Sat. Icemen To Host Playoff Game By A.W. sp&rts staff Union clinched the home ice advantage for the ECAG Division 2 playoffs witll a hard fought win over Hamilton, 4-2. Jamie Knight led the way with 2 key goalS, and Mike ·Rozzi had the game winner. Union's win streak went as ·high as seven games last week, but it was then broken at North Adams. The Mohawks beat a Dutchman team, that could have been lookillg towards the playoffs by a score of 5-2. Earlier in the week, Union defeated Plattsburgh 5-2, as three goals in the final period was the margin of difference. Two of thQse goals came within the first two minutes of the period. Mike Rozzi scored the first, putting a nifty move on a defenseman before putting a wrist shot past the Cardinal goalie, who had played superbly up until this point. Then on a p()wet play opportunity less than a minute later, Jamie Knight deflected a Tommy Hodgins shot into the net to make it 4-2. The victory was sealed when the Rozzi-Gill Egan- Union's high scoring captain Gill Egan makes a move on the Plattsburgh St. goalie. Union defeated Plattsburgh 5-2. Men Swim Away at States ByMIKEFOX Sports Talk The swimming Dutchmen completed their regular season last week by traveling to Albany State (61-42) then Hamilton {67- 36). Although Union lost both meets, there were many fine performances. Consistent winners Andy Crossley (~OFr, 200Bk, 100Fr) and Kyle Cotugno (200IM, 200Fly, 200Fr) were in usual form, each eapturing several victories. Brian Chabot (200Br) continued his tally of wins also. hnportant seconds and thirds were scored by Ron Newbold, Steve Jacobs, Mike Fox, Mike Millet, Dave Weick, Steve Zehl, John Whalen and Ken Major. As of today most of the team is now at Colgate for the State Championships. In a way, they've been preparing for this \finale\ ·all during the season by striving for the speed and endurance needed to enter a big meet like the States. This week was a matter of final training and \psyching up\- they all hope to swim their best times ever. When you're out this weekend, raise one in their honor and wish them good luck! Andy Crossley takes a first in the 200 Backstroke at Albany State on Feb. 15. Curt Cole line scored their fourth goal of the night. Cole getting the, honors. The loss to North Adams could be attributed. to a com- bination .of things. Coach Sean Teevens explained, \Playing two or three games a week for the past couple of months or so probably caused some mental fatigue on the part of the players. I think they were taking North Adams a little too lightly, and that also caused our lapse for the majority of the game. But we did make them work for it in the third, and their open net go::~l was more or less the difference.\ The Mohawk's Tom Gerry was another difference, as he had a haHrick and four points total, and was the main reason why North Adams had a 3o0 lead after two periods over the Sleeping Dutchmen. Union finally snapped out of it in the third, as goals by Joe ~aruso and Curt Cole kept them in striking distance. The Dut- chmen played superbly the rest of the way, but the breaks weren't there, and. they had to settle for their fifth division 2 loss of the year. \If we beat Hamilton,\ said Teevens before the Continental game, then the loss to North Adams could be beneficial to us, because it means that that game woke us up, while the Hamilton game would start our momentum rolling again, just in time for the playoffs.\ The way in which the Dutchmen won this game makes Teeven's point that much more significant. Union faced a Continental squad that not only was fighting . just to gain a playoff spot, but also had the added incentive of their coac}l announcing that this would be his last regular season game, as he is retiring after 30.. plus seasons at Hamilton. THey played Union extremely tough, but the Dutchmen mettle was too much for the Continentals. Wayne McDougall was stupendous in goal, and he was to stop Hamilton in the key moments of the game. When Hamilton did make the score 4-3 late in the third, Rozzi and Egan helped McDougall out with some smart forechecking to preserve the Dutchmen win. NOTES: Union ends up in third place in the Western conference, edging out Elmira and North Adams, but it still doesn't mean they're necessarily the third seed in the playoffs. The ECAC Division 2 officialswbo seed the teams are allegedly comprised of math majors who enjoy making up complex · formulas which eventually decide the top eight teams, . and their respective seeds. (Maybe that's one reason why Division 2 hockey was abolished for next season.) Given Union does tutn out to be the third seed, then it will host 6th place Potsdam this SatlU'day . . . Tickets started going on sale Wednesday morning, and they will cost $2 with a Utrion I.D. Don't blame the school-that's the ECAC's policy . . . Who does the Dut- dunen want to see in the first round? \I would love to go against North Adams again,\ said Teevens \just to prove who the better team is.\ ... \We're not afraid to play anyone\ confirmed Jamie Knight . Taking a page out of Casey Stengal's book of cliches. (or anyone elses book of cliches), Knight added, \This is the playoffs--it's a whole new season now!\ Stalwart Skating Dutchmen defenseman Dave Weiss moves wi.th the puck. Union's strong defensive corps is one reason the 13-5-1 Dutchmen are in the. playoffs for ·the first time under C~arlie Morrison. SPORTS HA.PPENINGS Feb. 23. March 1 Varsity Hockey Men's Basketball J.V. Men's Basketball Men's Swimming Men's Indoor Track Women's Indoor Track Feb.25xxxxxxxx7:30 (H) Feb. 24 Clarksona:oo (Hl Feb. 28 Middlebury 8:00 (H) Feb. 24Aibany.St.6:00 {H) Feb.28HVCC6:00 (H) Feb. 23-25State ivleet (H) Feb. 25 RPI lnvy {H) Feb. 25 NYSAIAW (A) SCOREBOARP HOCKEY (13-S·l) (15·8-1 overall} North Adams 5 Union2 Hamilton3 Union4 MEN'S BASKEtBALL (9-12) St. Lawrence 85 Union 67 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (10-6) St. Rose73 RPI69 Union 67 Union 63 MEN'S SWIMMING (3-8) Albany- Sta.te 61 Hamilton 67 Union 43 Union 36 WOMEN'S SWIMMIN.G (3-6) WOME:N'S INDOOR TRACK (1·3) Uni.on54pts. pla.ced 4th in Union Women's lnvy, ... dropfour Garnet Five Host Clarkson By 'Blackness Sports staff The Union College basketball team played just one game last week, and in continuing their season long slump, was handed a 8~7 defeat at St. Lawrence. The loss was the fourth in a row for the Dutchmen and left their record at a dismal 9-12. With only three games remaining, the best the Garnet can hope for is a .500 sea~on. Saturday at St. Lawren,ee, Union jumped to an early 16·12 lead, and although they· stumbled towards the end of the half, the Dutchmen trailed by just. three at halftime 31w28. Union was still in the game with 17: 08 remaining, but at this point the Saints went on a 14-2 team, which increased their lead from 36-34 to 50-36 with 11:34 left. Union, led by Joe Wood's 14 second half points, made several runs down the stretch, but could only get as close as ten points, 71-61 with 5:27 left in the g~e. St. Lawrence center Blaine Harris kept the Dutchmen at bay all afternoon with 26 points on 11 .. 11 shooting, while adding 12 rebounds. Wood led the Dut- chmen with 19 points while Ken D'Orazio added 16. Union closes out the season this week with three games,. beginning at RPI on Wed- nesday. Union's last two games are at home, with. Clarkson on Friday and. Middlebury on Tuesday the 28th; Dutchwomen Place Fourth of Nine By DIU Sports Staff This past Saturday the Union women's track team competed in the Union Women's Invitational :meet held at the field holl8e. They scored 54 points to place fourth out of nine teams. Jenny Snover led the Dutchwomen, scoring in four events including the high jwnp, 50 meter hurdles, 500 meter, and the mile relay. Gigi Gior- dano also was a top scorer, placing in the long jwnp, triple jump, and the 50 meter hurdles. Andrea G.rief, Diane Moskaluk, and Jenny Dilorio rounded out the Union SC()ring. . . In a special open 1500 meter race for men, Neal Ricks and Bill McRoberts, both of Union, took fourth and fifth respec- tively. Some of the men traveled on Sunday to West Point where they competed in the non· association division (outside metropolitan New York). In the penthathlon, Gary Wenner placed third. The two mile r~lay team of . O'Donnell, Reed, Rinaldi, and Mohlar ~ placed second. Scott Remillard and Mark Dunn both scored in the shot put. · The women will compete next week in the NYSAIA W (women's state meet), and the men will compete in the RPI lnvy. Ill c: 'i: 0 .lo: II) .lo: c: Ill .... lL >- .c 0 +- 0 .c: Q. :9 10 ;: c (!} (!} ,_ C> +- 1.. <{ )o. .0 0 .... 0 .c 0. I ar of F1 a pi IIJ M w at M ai fo w fo bt ar el m m OI di ·cc qi cc WI al a J; u lo N c: c~ tl d i\l ir tE \ t] c J a J r· R c p b s

10 c: 1.. 0 :£ V') :>t:. c: 10 1- u. >- .c 0 0 .t:::. c. Ill .£ L.. 0 .Y. Vl .)(, c 1'0 I. u. >- .c 0 .... 0 ..c a. Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS, February 23. 1984 SPORTS .... face North Adams Sat. Icemen To Host Playoff Game By A.W. Sports Staff Union clinched the home ice advantage for the ECAC Division 2 playoffs with a hard fought win over Hamilton, 4-2. Jamie Knigllt led the way with 2 key goals, and Mike Rozzi had the game winner. Union's win streak went as high as seven games last week, but it was then br0ken at North Adams. The Mohawks beat a Dutchman team, that could have been looking towards the playoffs by a score of 5-2. Earlier in the week, Union defeated Plattsburgh 5-2, as three goals in the final period was the margin of difference. Two of those goals carne within tl:te first two minutes of the period. Mike Rozzi scored the first, putting a nifty move Oil a defenseman before putting a wrist shot past the Cardinal goaUe, who had played superbly up until this point. Then on a power f)lay opportunity less than a minute later, Jamie Knight deflected a Tommy Hodgins shot into the net to make it 4-2. The victory was sealed when the Rozzi-Gill Egan- Union's high scoring captain Gill Egan makes a move on the Plattsburgh St. goalie. Union defeated Plattsburgh 5-2. Men SwimAway at States By MIKE FOX Sports Talk The swimming Dutchmen completed their regular season last week by traveling to Albany State (61-42) then Hamilton (67- 36). Although Union lost both meets, there were many fine performances. Consistent winners Andy Crossley (50Fr, 200Bk, lOOFr) and Kyle Cotugno (200IM, 200Fly, 200Fr) were in usual form, each capturing several victories. Brian Chabot (200Br) continued his tally ()f wins also. Important seconds and thirds were scored by Ron Newbold, Steve Jacobs, Mike Fox, Mike Millet, Dave Weick, Steve Zehl, John Whalen and Ken Major. As of today most of the team is now at Colgate for the State Championships. In a way, they've been preparing for this \finale\ all during the season by striving for the speed and endurance needed to enter a big meet like the States. This week was a matter of final training and \psyching up\- they all hope to swim their best times ever. When you're out this weekend, raise one in their honor and wish them good luck! Andy Crossley takes a first in the 200 Backstroke at Albany State on Feb. 15. Curt Cole Une scored their fourth goal of the night. Cole getting the honors. The loss to North Adams could be attributed to a com- bination ef things. Ceach Sean Teevens explained, \Playing two or three games a week for the past couple of months or so probably caused some mental fatigue on the part of the players. I think they were taking North Adams a little too lightly, and that also caused our lapse for the majority of the game. But we did make them work for it in the third, and their open net goal was more or less the difference.\ The Mohawk's Tom Gerry was another difference, as he had a hat-trick and four points total, and was the main reason why North Adams had a 3.() lead after two periods over the Sleeping Dutchmen. Union finally snapped out of it in the third, as goals by Joe ~aruso and Curt Cole kept them in striking distance. The Dut- chmen played superbly the rest of the way, but the breaks weren't there, and they had to settle for their fifth division 2 loss of the year. \If we beat Hamilton,\ said Teevens before the Continental game, then the loss to North Adams could be beneficial to us, because it means that that game woke us up, while the Hamilton game would start our momentum rolling again, just in time for the playoffs.\ The way in which the Dutchmen won this game makes Teeven's point that much more significant. Union faced a Continental squad that not only was fighting just to gain a playoff spot, but also had the added incentive of their coach announcing that this would be his last regular season game, as he is retiring after 30- plus seasons at Hamilton. They played Union extremely tough, but the Dutchmen mettle was too much for the Continentals. Wayne McDougall was stupendous in goal, and he was to stop Hamilton in the key moments of the game. When Hamilton did make the score 4-3 late in the third, Rozzi and Egan helped McDougall out with some smart forechecking to preserve the Dutchmen win. NOTES: Union ends up in third place in the Western conference, edging out Elmira and North Adams, but it still doesn't mean they're necessarily the third seed in the playoffs. The ECAC Division 2 officials who seed the teams are allegedly comprised of math majors who enjoy making up complex formulas which eventually decide the top eight teams, and their respective seeds. (Maybe that's one reason why Division 2 hockey was abolished for next season.) Given Union does turn out to be the third seed, then it will host 6th place Potsdam this Saturday . . . Tickets started going on sale Wednesday morning, and they will cost $2 with a Union I.D. Don't blame the school-that's the ECAC's policy . . . Who does the Dut- chmen want to see in the first round? \I would love to go against North Adams again,\ said Teevens \just to prove who the better team is.\ ... \We're not afraid to play anyone\ confirmed Jamie Knight. Taking a page out of Casey Stengal's book of cliches, (or anyone elses book of cliches), Knight added, \This is the playoffs--it's a whole new season now! \ S.ta,rwart Skating Dutchmen defenseman Dave Weiss moves with ihe p~:~ck. Union's strong defensive corps is one reason the 13-5-1 Dutchmen are in the playoffs for the first time under C~arlie Morrison. SPORTS HAPPENINGS Feb. 23- March 1 Varsity Hockey Men's Basketball J. V. Men's Basketball Men's Swimming Men's Indoor Track Women's Indoor Track Feb. 25 ><xxxxxxx 7:30 (H) Feb. 24.Ciarkson8:00 (H) Feb. 28 Middlebury 8:00 (H) Feb. 24Aibany St. 6:00 (H) Feb.28 HVCC6:00 (H) Feb. 23-25SfateMeet (H) Feb. 25 RPI I nvy (H) Feb. 25 N YSAIAW (A) SCOREBOARD HOCKEY (13-5-1) (15-8-1 overall) North Adams 5 Union 2 Hamilton 3 Union4 MEN'S BASKETBALL (9-12) St. Lawrence 85 Union67 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (10-6) St. Rose73 RPI69 Union 67 Union 63 MEN'S SWIMMING (3-8) Albany State 61 Hamilton67 Union 43 Union 36 WOMEN'S SWIMMING (3-6) WOMEN'S INDOOR TRACK (1-3) Union54pts. placed 4th in Union Women's lnvy. .. dropfour Garnet Five Host Clarkson By Blackness Sports staff The Union College basketball team played just one game last week, and in continuing their season long slump, was handed a 85-67 defeat at St. Lawrence. The loss was the fourth in a row for the Dutchmen and left their record at a dismal 9-12. With only three games remaining, the best the Garnet can hope for is a .500 season. Saturday at St. Lawrence, Union jumped to an early 16-12 lead, and although they stumbled towards the end of the half, the Dutchmen trailed by just three at halftime 31-28. Union was still in the game with 17:08 remaining, but at this point the Saints went on a 14-2 team, which increased their lead from 36-34 to 50-36 with 11:34 left. Union, led by Joe Wood's 14 second half points, made several runs down the stretch, but could only get as close as ten points, 71-61 with 5:27 left in the game. St. Lawrence <!enter Blaine Harris kept the Dutchmen at bay all afternoon Vlith 26 points on 11 n 11 shooting, while adding 12 rebounds. Wood led the Dut- chmen witb l!l points while Ken D'Orazio added 16. Union closes out the season this week with three games, beginning at RPI on Wed- nesday. Union's last two games are at home, with Clarkson on Friday a11d Middlebury on Tuesday the 28th. Dutchwomen Place Fourth of Nine By DIU Sports Staff This past Saturday the Union women's track team competed in the Union Women's Invitational meet held at the field house. They scored 54 points to place fourth out of nine teams. Jenny Snover led the Dutchwomen, scoring in four events including the high jump, 50 meter hurdles, 500 meter, and the mile relay. Gigi Gior- dano also was a top scorer, placing in the long jump, triple jump, and the 50 meter hurdles. Andrea Grief, Diane Moskaluk, and Jenny Dilorio rounded out the Union scoring. ln a special open 1500 meter race for mea, Neal Ricks and Bill McRober-ts, both of Union, took fourtl1 and fifth respec- tively. Some of the men traveled on Sunday to West Point where they competed in the non- associati()n division (outside metropolitan New York). In the pentha thiCln, Gary Wenner placed third. The two mile relay team of 0 'Donnell, Reed, Rinaldi, and Mohlar· placed second. Scott Remillard and Mark DUIUl both scored in the shot put. The women will compete next week in the NYSAIA W (women's state meet), and the men will <Jompete in the RPI Invy. Ill c:: ·.:: 0 .)(, Vl .)(, !: '1l ... 1.1. >. .0 0 - 0 .t: a. i i .( 'I I I ' ' \'4 ~I lj i ' ! I i ! \ H l ~ Ill :s: c <1.1 <1.1 ..... Cl .... ,_ <( >. .a 0 .... 0 ..c a. I ar of Ft a pi In M w at M ar fo w fo bt ar el: m m 0!= di, co di co w~ E: In FE ze al a Jj u lo N ci CE c. p b s

