7:00 1:00 3:00 4:30 4:30 1:00 3:00 12:00 11 :00 1:00 3:30 3:00 3:00 3:30 3:30 7:30 7:30 3:()0 Union 3 union 3 Norwich 1 Norwich 1 Union 4 RPIB Union 8 Army 10 Union 2 St. Rose 1 3 8 Siena 4 ever, made a shade of time, and time this good and afternoon a to tie in an anti· between the been beaten Oneonta as did the the A-side Killer·B's e for the Ithaca as :~t day as the . down well ead to this Tournament feelings. from the team now more strong club, forward to a second time right fans to see. left road about 15 ; ' '' • Bulk Rate U.S. Postage Paid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 CXIV, No. 20 York May 2, 1985 ' ':<: ..... , ,...~·. ' RobertV~n-Veris· _.and Chris Sullivan (leU.to right) .are two of the·tour authors of the In· trafratern1ty Council Dry Ru5h proposal. .~ Rush Proposal Approved By TONY DUNAIF Contributor Following the lead of the sixty-five college Greek systems which implemented rush programs ·without alcohol last year, the Union Inter- fraternity Council has come up With its own form of \dry rush.\ The proposal was written by Christopher Sullivan, Phi Delta Theta; Daniel Rabinovitz, Beta Theta Phi; Patrick Virnich, Alpha Delta Phi; and Robert Van Voris, Kappa Sigma. According to the authors, a dry rush was implemented because 1) rush is a visible process on the campus; 2) it is the first exposure freshmen have to \college life\ ; 3) most are under the legal drinking age in New York State (19). They also claim that many brothers are tired of \here for a beer\ rushees. \The approach to rush in the past,\ according to Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa, \has been laid back at best.\ Massa and the IFC thus made C/1 C/1 ~ a. one of their goals to come up with a more structured and unified rush policy. \I challenged the executive board to have some form of dry rush,'' :::: says Massa. On April3, the IFC 8 met this challenge with an 11 to ;_ 2 vote in favor of restructuring .o the rush procedure so that dry s functions will definitely play a -g_ strong· role. The following eight points established by the IFC will guide fraternity rush at Union for the coming year: any activity which includes freshmen, except a pre- arranged party with ten or more freshmen where the freshmen are the primary guests at the party. 2) This informal period will last approximately two weeks. At the beginning of the third week of the term, there will be a convocation for all freshmen. This convocation will serve as an information session for freshmen and will illustrate the benefits of the fraternity system as a whole. Speakers, including the President of the College, deans and IFC officers, will encourage freshmen to become in· volved in the fraternal system. In no way will the convocation serve the interests of an individual fraternity. 3) Following this con- vocation, the IFC will commence a two week formal rush. This two week period will take the form of a \dry\ rush. Each fraternity will be strongly Continued on page 4 \Who is this m·asked man?\ Restaurant Review: Liberal Learning Re-evaluated • .. Memo Circulated By JAN BARAN News Editor On April 15, 1985, a memorandum was circulated among all Union faculty members from the Academics Affairs Council (AAC) detailing the steps needed to reduce the teaching load to six courses per year. Problems with the current Liberal Learning program were also considered along with ways to eradicate those problems. Assistant Dean of Undergraduate Studies, William Daniels, described this memorandum as ''very im- portant\ because it will facilitate discussion among the facu1ty and students so that all input can be gathered. As reported . last term in ConcQrdiensis, the faculty teaching load will be reduced from seven to six courses per year to alleviate terms where professors have traditionally taught three courses. A three- course term has been thought to prevent faculty from scholarship and from meeting with students for longer periods of time. To compensate for the reduction in the number of courses taught, the AAC has proposed that Union add ten new faculty members to its faculty roster. Two of these ten appointments have already been slated for the geology department. Along with the new facu1ty, the AAC is also con- stdering a package of five new courses to enrich the geology curriculum. The MC has recommended that the upcoming academic year be used as a transitional period whereby the average course load shou1d be reduced ''Zoo Crew'' . from seven to six and one-half courses wherever possible. In addition,· the memorandum stated that Vice President of Academic Affairs, Thomas D'Andrea, noted that \adjunct and part-time faculty will be made available . . . to those departments most severely pressed by unusually large enrollments.\ Besides indicating how Union College faculty will make its transition in reducing the course load, the memorandum sent to faculty had another equally important purpose. This memorandum was designed to encourage communication among faculty members about the problems of the current Liberal Learning program. Daniels believes that if faculty members share their com- plaints concerning the Liberal Learning program then many of the problems can be eliminated. Several weaknesses with the current Liberal Learning program have been perceived so far. First, \the progr:am is not based on any underlying vision of what constitutes a liberal education.\ The memorandum noted that currently it is relatively easy to avoid taking courses in Humanities and Engineering. Thus, academic departments can be avoided by selective choice of the courses to fill the Liberal Learning requirement. Another problem perceived with the Liberal Learning curriculum is that \there is no depth and no direction in the selection of courses taken to satisfy the Liberal Learning requirement.\ Dean Daniels particulary commented that he wants to see the Liberal Learning courses form a more cohesive package. . A third problem with the Liberal Learning program is that certain. Liberal Learning courses \suffer from low morale and insufficiently rigorous standards.\ It is hoped by the AAC that some of these \easy A\ courses can be ad- justed so that high standardS of academics traditionally ex- pected at Union can be main- tained. 1) Informal fraternity rush will commence at the beginning of the fall term. Informal rush is defined as The Pentagon *..:..see page 6- * at Cabaret *-see page 13-* The memorandum noted a final weakness with the Liberal Learning curriculum; ad- justments still need to be made with the Freshman Precep- torial program. The first complaint involved the ability of a preceptorial to teach writing. Currently, the preceptorial classes \provide no preparation for writing longer research papers\ because the longest paper required is usually four to six pages. The second complaint involves the intense work-load of · the preceptorial students which means reading five to six Continued on page ~

.a:; \C 0 - ..... ro ::::1 - (/') >- ..0 0 - 0 ..c 0.. Page2 CONCORDIENSJS, May 2, 1985 Bank Careers Considered Executive Vice President Wi'l.lriam Milton spoke about careers in banking By .niDY PRICE Contributor The Economics Club presented a lecture on \Career Options in Banking and Finance\ by William Milton, Executive Vice President of Schenectady Trust Company (STC), on Thursday, April 25. Milton was born in Schenec-- tady, but J;\aised elsewhere. He attended Union College and graduated in 1950. Milton then spent some time in the service and worked in a bank in New York City. These experiences helped Milton to realize that he did riot want to work in a big business; he wanted to settle in one place and to work in a small CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS Sealtson MobyDick A lecture by Merton Sealts titled \Whose Book is Moby Dick?\ will be held at Union College Wednesday, May 8, at 8 p.m. in Hale House Lower Lounge. The event, sponsored by the College and the English Department, is free and open to the public. A reception will follow the talk. Sealts will be at Union May S. 7 as Thomas Lamont Visiting Professor of Ancient and Modern Literature. While on campus, Sealts will visit several classes and will be available for informal meetings with faculty and students. Sealts is Henry A. Pochmann Professor Emeritus at the University of Wisconsin. He is author or - editor of many scholarly works, among them Melville as Lecturer, The Early Lives of Melville, the University of Chicago Press's edition of Billy Budd, Sailor, parts of the Multi-volume Journals and Miscellaneous Notebooks of Ralph Waldo Emerson, and Emerson's Nature: Origin, Growth, Meaning. Aspirin Study Margaret M. Heckler, Secretary of Health and Human Services, Washington, D.C. has asked for the cooperation of certain responsible people in bringing to the attention of aspirin users important health information. A year ago the Centers for Disease Control undertook a pilot study in order to resolve the scientific dispute which earlier studies showed. This pilot study demonstrates that the · use of aspirin- containing drugs to treat flu- like illnesses or Chicken Pox in children appears to be associated with increased risk of developing Reye Syndrome in children and teenagers, the groups most. clearly at risk. This pilot study is to be followed . . by a first scale investigation this year. Reye Syndrome is a deadly disease, with a fatality rate of 26 percent last year. In addition those children who suffer the disease are increasingly older children and teenagers. Some 50 percent of all cases were over 10 years of age and 15 percent of those are ovef15 years or older. The Union College Health Service wants to emphasize that this .step does not mean that aspirin is unsafe for other uses. Aspirin is, in fact, a tremen- dously valuable and effective analgesic and anti~ 'inflammatocy drug that has, will, and should continue to be used by tens of millions of Americans safely. But, as with any other drug, it is crucial that aspirin be administered ap- propriately. V-E Day Films May 8 will be the 4oth an- niversary of V -E Day, the day on which Nazi Germany surrendered ''unconditionally\ to the Allies, thus ending the European phase of the Second World War. To mark that oc- casion, the history department at Union will show two films illustrating different aspects of that conflict, Prelude to War on Thursday, May 2, and The True Glory on Monday, May 6. Both films will be shown in SS 016, starting at 7:30 p.m. Prelude to Glory was the first of a series of American propaganda films made for the Army Signal Corps by then Colonel Frank Capra. It won an Academy Award in 1944. Depicting the rise of German fascism and Japanese im- perialism from the early '30s through 1938, the film presents the official rationale for American participation in World War II, ang was shown to all U.S. servicemen leaving for overseas. The True Glory, directed by Garson Kanin and Carol Reed and introduced by General Eisenhower, was · a Britisy- American co-production released in 1945. It surveys the last years of the war in Europe, focusing on the ordinary soldier caught between dreams of glory and a desire to survive. Economics Club Lectures The Union College Economics Club presents Schedule of Spring Events: Thursday, May 2-Speaker: Chinese Economist, \Current Changes in China: Is Marxism Dead?\ in Strauss Lounge, Carnegie at 4 p.m. Tuesday, May 7th-Speaker: Mr. Dominick Carbone, Treasurer, New York Telephone, Conference Room A, Carnegie at 4 p.m. Parents' Weekend May 10, 11, 12 Parents pick up tickets at registration (Strauss Lounge) May 10 ·5-7 p.m. • May 11 • 9 a.m.-1 p.m. SPECIAL EVENTS: ··Prize Day--Sat., 11:00 •• ,panel Discussion-·\Technology in New Liberal Arts\ --President Morris--Sat., 1:30-2:30 --President's Reception--Sat., 4:30·5:30 --Historical tours of Union --Tennis Tournament-2:30-4:30 ... Tours of Schenectady --Ramada Inn Dance ' . . . ~ . community. Milton believes that everyone should choose a job he or she loves, and he stated, '\If you don't like to do it, you're .not going to do well ever.\ Milton explained that bankS had door-to-door salesmen .thirty years ago, and he began in that .position. Milton then dealt with conservative, older . people who, for the most part, welcomed the opportunity to make banking transactions in their oWn homes. From this experience, Milton believes that the place to start ·in banking is the sales end, although it has changed significantly in the past thirty years. Milton ·explained that success as a salesman requires an awareness and confidence in the product and the ability to sell oneself, and therefore the product. Tbese qualities make the customers, as well as the company, aware of ·the salesman. Milton then discussed the importance of having (or not having) a Master's Degree. This depends upon· the desired career. A Master's Degree may not give a person an edge in a small business, and· the Schenectady Trust has yet to hire a person with a Master's Degree~ Larger banks may · have different requirements, but STC prefers not to hire people with Master's Degrees because they want to train people to work in their business. STC wants permanent workers, not people who look upon STC as a \stepping stone.\ Milton looks for a person who has made a major accomplishment in any field, and he suggests that everyone take on a job and do it successfully. STC does not try to compete with large businesses, such as General Electric, in regards to salary, for they do not believe it degree, the starting salary at STC .is $12,500. If a person is reasomibly successful, it is possible to receive $20;000 after four years with STC. Milton acknowledged that better starting salaries can be earned elsewhere, but if a person loves the job, \It can be a very rewarding career.\ Milton ·then discussed the .investment business, which has many more opportunities today than just ten years ago. Regarding a career in in- vestments, Milton advised, \Never get into something you don't understand.\ He then added, \Never get a customer into something you don't un- derstand.\ Milton then examined in· terstate banking,. which he believes will happen in the forseeable future. Larger banks will result (Norstar, for example, is expanding), but Milton believes that STC will survive although this bank only invests locally. The lecture then addressed the differences between the current banking industry and that of the fifties and sixties. In the past, the bank industcy was regulated and risk-free. Now the industry has been deregulated, and it is no longer risk-free. Deregulation allows banks more flexibility on in- terest rates, loa~Js, etc. Speaking of loans,. Milton ad- mitted, \we can charge what we think we can get away with.\ Milton finished the lecture briefly discussing his ex- perience as an economics major at Uniori. A single semester course on corporate finance \led him to his current career. Milton surprised everyone with his final statement, \At that point, the words macro and micro (economics) had yet to be invented.\ r·AAc· s;~ds Memo Continued from page 1 books a term and writing five papers not including re-writes. ... To improve the Liberal Learning program, several suggestions have been made. This list of suggestions has been created to encourage campus- wide discussion of the Liberal Learning curriculum. First, there has been talk of sequencing courses whereby students would take several courses each within a separate discipline, with the entire sequence being in- terdisciplinary. These courses would include majors whenever ' possible and would \not add to the total number of courses for the ·distribution requirement since they would themselves carry Liberal Learning let- ters.\ In addition, there has been a suggestion to require at lea~t one \W 1 ' credit course after Freshman preceptorial. This \W\ course \would meet a minimum standard of required writing, and serve as a follow- up to the preceptorial.\ Another change that has been examined i~ the adjustment of a nun1ber of courses under the \A\ . (arts) and \F\ (engineering) categories. This adjustment would mandate two courses each under the two disciplines instead of one course in one category and two. courses in the other. other suggestions that have been made include the elimination of as many courses as possible that exclude majors, a requirement mandating a ''C\ course that contains a laboratory, the imposition of a language requirement, the encouragement of· an increased stress on writing in all courses, and-or the introduction of a capstone course, \the Nott seminar,\ which would require \seniors · to study moral questions (perhaps those particular to their own discipline), partly through independent study.\ At this point these possible suggestions have not been formulated into concrete changes for the Liberal Lear- ning program. Dean Daniels noted that these changes will be minor in nature and will be approved probably by the end of spring term. 42days 'til Graduation! Seniors: Live it up!!

d at ~rson is it is after Milton better earned loves very the has ~s today ago. in in- you then un- in- ich he in the rbanks for ~), but will only en the and In was Now been allows on in- ' etc. ad- ~e what away lecture ex- ~mester career. with that and to be \-F\ ~s. This ate two two course have the a \C\ a on of a the of a e Nott require moral those own Sible been Lear- Daniels be will be CONCORDJENSIS, May 2, 1985 Greeks Host Faculty By TOD ·DIMMICK Staff On Wednesday, April 24, the members of the Delta Gamma sorority and the Sigma Chi fraternity hosted a dinner for Union faculty. Planned and arranged by the members of Delta Gamma and Sigma Chi, the event was the first of its kind in recent memory. Semi- formal, with catered service and a thought-provoking discussion after dinner, this occasion marks the first step of a new and potentially far- reaching policy concerning Greek involvement with the campus community as a whole. Impetus for Dinner Sigma Chi fraternity.\ The event was sponsored by Delta Gamma, Sigma Chi, The Minerva Conunittee and the Office of the Dean of Students. The students and faculty gathered in Hale House for hors d'oeuvres and casual con- versation for an hour, followed by dinner. After dessert, Professor Stanley Kaminsky of the philosophy department gave a lecture-discussion on \various views of an undergraduate education.\ Conveying con- cepts from conventional to ide;llistic, he forced those present to consider the un- dergraduate institution and its purpose in today's world. He asked what a student wants to obtain from college, and if he or she actually can achieve those hopes in the institutions that exist today. need to get the faculty and students together outside of class to talk and think.'' Professor Edward Craig, of the electrical engineering depart- ment, said of the dinner: \I can't remember anything of this nature being done before by a fraternity or sorority.\ . While this event alone will not meet the objectives of the Greek system in the area of student- faculty contact and some students and faculty felt it could be held in an area even more conducive to learning, it can set an example. As Dean Massa said: \This experience would indicate that this type of ac· tivity must continue and that other fraternities and sororities should follow the lead.\ Professor Craig agreed: \It is a noble experiment and it should be continued.\ The nice weather h:Jrns the grassy areas into places for studying. The impetus for the dinner began with the mission statement of -the GreeK con- ference during Homecoming weekend last fall. At that time, Union's fraternities,. sororities, alumni and the administration worked together to set broad goals for the fraternity-sorority system at Union College. The mission statement described ten goals and their strategies. One of these goals is to •ccreate a positive image of fraternities and sororities on campus which includes a demonstration of their involvement in college affairs and their leadership in the college community.\ · The atmosphere of the dinner and the following discussion was one of relaxed com- munication. Such an at- mosphere is undeniably dif- ferent from that of the classroom. If such events continue to take place, they could possibly go a long way towards achieving some of the Ethiopia Moves Students The administration decided that this image could be fostered by events such as a faculty dinner. In February the dean's office sent messages about this idea to every fraternity and sorority at Union asking for volunteers to sponsor or co~sponsor a faculty dinner with a speaker. According to Asst. Dean of Students, Robert Massa: ,-,Out of the .nineteen organizations; two responded quickly and favorably: the Delta Gamma sorority and the -objectives of last fall's fraternity-sorority conference. For in si.tch effort, the Greek organizations show that they wish to be integral members of the college community, with a positive image and a willingness to set new precedents in faculty-student communication. Al Cann, a Sigma Chi brother, had a slightly different view of the benefits of the dinner: \It is a chance for the faculty to learn more about the Greek system at Union.\ Chris Sawchuk, another brother, said: \What I liked about the dinner is that I could talk ih an atmosphere of equality without classroom inhibitions.\ Such an effort can surely· satisfy the desire ex- pressed by Dean Massa: \We (CPS) - Rock stars aren't the only people raising money to aid starving drought victims in Ethopia and other African nations. Since November. when an NBC News film of starving children made the African fam.ine a bigger issue here, , student groups have raised thousands of dollars through relief funds li'ke Oxfam, UNICEF, CARE, the Save the Children Federation and the American Red Cross, relief officials say. Some students, however, apparently resent the methods charitable organizations are using to turn them into fun- draisers. But · whatever the tactics, ''students raise millions of dollars each year for charities,'' says steve Kinnaird, national coordinator for the New York Choir Funding to Change By JOANNE MCANDREWS Staff This past winter term the men's and women's glee clubs joined together to form the Union College Choir, under the direction <>f music professor Hugo Allen Wilson. Also during last term, the Student Forum drew up a resolution recommending that the funding of the Choir be transferred from the Student Activities budget to that of the Administration. As Lynda Gagliano, acting co- president of the Union College Choir explained,\ At almost all colleges, the arts department fl.mds the Choir. However, the Student Forum has always been able to afford us. Next year, their budget will increase by $2400, and our budget will decrease by $5000. This year, the Choir expended eight percent of the Student Forum budget. Next year, the Choir would have expended 6.3 per- cent. It seemed that, finan- cially, they didn't want us.\ The Choir's budget must provide for expenses including traveling, hiring professional musicians and singers, sheet music, and hosting visiting choirs. Gagliano continued, \We were afraid of losing control over the Choir. We had control Former Acting Co-President of the Choir, Lynda Gagli.cmo and new President, Deni Rightmire, (left to right) assess the impact of the probable change in choir funding. .!) .... ' ' . ·~ . . over our membership, concert dates, etc.; and we weren't sure that we would have the same flexibility if we were under the influence of the arts depart- ment.\ A committee including Gagliano, Chris Hoople and Student Forum representatives, Andrew George and Shari Midoneck, met and discussed the concerns of the Choir. Gagliano stated, -\The Forum was very apologetic . . . their intention was to find what was going to be most beneficial to the Choir. They believed that the Administration would be less likely to cut our budget.\ After the discussions, the Student Forum passed a new resolution recommending that the the budget of the Choir be transferred to the Administration. The new resolution contains a provision stating that two years from now, the officers of the Choir will be able to decide whether or not their organization is satisfied under the Administration's funding. Student Forum member Torn Megerian commented,\ The College has an interest in the Choir and will make sure that the funding is adequate, and will allow them the same privileges that they now have.\ Junior representative to the Student Forwn, Chris Siler, added, \The Student Forum is acting in their best interests and keeping them in mind with the review in two yeat·s.\ Concluded Gagliano, \rm pretty happy with it. Who can say if it will be the .right thing? Many members of the Choir have mixed emotions.\ City-based U.S. Committee for UNICEF's Campus Action Program. The cause, of course, isn't new. \UNICEF and the United Nations have been warning of mass disaster (in Africa) since 1981,\ Kinnaird points QUt. But now \there's lots of ac- tivity even in places where no program is in place yet,'' he reports. Last fall, over 100 campuses joined a nationwide Oxfam fast \to call attention to world hunger.\ The annual Oxfam event had never drawn more than 40 participating campuses before, and the pace of activity has accelerated again this spring. University of West Florida faculty and students, for example, held a Third World Luncheon on April 3, serving participants either a full dinner or a glass of water. The meal emphasized Third World starvation and unequal food distribution worldwide, · explains Sandra Dickson, broadcast journalism professor and program coalition member. \We raised $750 or more for the Oxfam and Bread for the World programs,\ she says. Mankato (Minnesota) State University students on April 28 will begin a Famine Relief Week which will include a food and money drive. - Committee members hope community organizations also will sponsor fWldraising events that week. Sigma Tau Gamma fraternity at the University of Missouri-st. Louis held a \We Ate The World\ party and auction in early April, donating all auction proceeds and 20 percent of the party door charge to U.S.A. for Africa. Students at Dartmouth, Cal- Berkeley, Harvard, Virginia Polytech and the State University of New York- Albany, among other cam- puses, have staged or are planning fundraising events. Kinnaird's committee has set up \campus ambassador\ programs at nearly 60 schools to organize student fundraising, and hopes to double the number by next year. Under the program, one student per campus or- chestrates benefits and cultivates student and faculty support. \This puts a student group officially on campus,\ Kinnaird explains. \The key is to reach out to campus organizations to broaden the base of support.\ _University of Scranton (Pa.) ambassador Nick Hanchak says he's \not doing a hell of a lot\ this Semester, but last fall he and a few organizers raised $2,000 from a jog-a-thon. \On college campuses ther's lots of energy, and you can raise a lot of money,\ he says. ''Some ideas didn't go over too well, so I'm trying to get some solid programs for next year.\ But some groups are more \grassroots\ than Kinnaird's organizations, and nearly as widespread. At SUNY-Albany, New York Governor Mario Cuomo's daughter Madeline is spearheading Students Opposing Poverty. The organization, now on some60 campuses in New York, raised $8,000 recently when students gave up one meal. The campus food service donated the cost of the meal to the group, which gave the money to UNICEF's CARE program. \Unicef operates on a ten percent overhead budget,\ Kinnaird explains. \Of com- bined government and private donations, more than 90 percent goes to programs.\ In 1983, government donations topped $50 million, and private giving usually totals between $8 million and $18 million per yeer, he says. \Obviously it's a good cause,\ Scranton's Hanchak says. \The pictures of starving kids really get to you.\ Tactics Anger Students But those same tactics anger some students. \It makes me angry that these organizations use pictures of dead and dying babies to make us donate to their causes,\ states Ben Bratman, editorial writer for the University of Washington's student paper. \I really feel these organizations are marketing themselves as much as they .are trying to save lives.\ \We haven't taken enough interest in our own back yard to force our government to react to our own starvation problem,\ he stresses. . Bratman insists he means \no callous disregard or feeling toward the people of Africa and their plight. Especially the children.\ \But what I'd like to see is Americans doing it just because it's right,\ he says. . Do you want to have your name in print? WRITE FOR NEWS Call Jan at 382-9597 or Maureen at 6860 1... (!) _o :::> .... (!) \0 > ro 0 > _o 0 - 0 .c: c.

President of the new Psychology ,club, Jeff .Perry, encourages all students to join. CONCORDIENSIS, May 2, 1985 Psychology Club Created By FRED EISMAN Staff On April 15, the Psychology Club was officially founded when its constitution was unanimously passed by the Student Forum. The club, organized to promote the in- terest and discipline of psychology through academic and non-academic activities, held its initial meeting on Friday, April 19. At this meeting, Dan Bordon was elected president, Sonia Soffin was elected vice president, and Caren Gelb was elected to the dual offices of secretary and treasurer. Besides the efforts of these officers, additional assistance will be provided by the Faculty Advisor, Hugh Foley. Professor Foley is \very excited, and interested in getting things going.\ The club boasts a list of 65 members and looks forward to many activities. In addition to this year's picnic, the Psychology Club intends to sponsor guest speakers, hold occasional receptions_ for these noted guests, and present movies. The club also hopes to take field trips, attending meetings of the American Psychological Association and other such groups. By going to these meetings, psychology majors will be able to see first handthe most recent equipment and techniques, which they may use upon graduation. Jeff Perry, who wrote the Psychology Club's constitution, stresses the point· that the club is not for psychology majors only. He says \The psychology club allows people who are not majors to get involved.\ Further, he says, \Any Union College student is welcome to join the dub!' IFC D,ry Rush Instated \GOD\ is coming!! Continued from page 1 encouraged to have one or more dry rush functions. \Dry\ is defined as a function at which no alcohol is served. 4) The IFC fully supports the theory that each in- dividual freshman should look at three or more houses before making his decision as to what fraterntiy he wishes to pledge. Therefore, no undue pressure shall be placed on a freshman during this period which could significantly alter his opportunity to investigate the offerings of another house. 5) After the two week formal rush, an un- structured rush will commence. This will allow each house to undertake any traditional or unique activities that have per- sonalized their own rush. 6) No bids will be offered by any house until the seventh week of the term. This will insure an equal opportunity for each house to select from the freshmen pool. 7) The Bid Box will be placed in the dining hall at the beginning of the eighth week. No bids shall be accepted until Bid Box results have been discussed by the IFC. 8) The IFC recognizes the party policy passed by the 1983-84 IFC as the specific set of guidelines that will apply to all rush functions STUDENTS: Start thinking about running for the Student Forum The following positions are open: • President • Vice-Presidentfor Administration • Vice-President for Finance e Junior Trustee • 3 senior reps. • 3 junior reps. • 3 sophomore reps. • Academic Affairs Rep. Election is May 7 • Petitions available May 9 The Pre-Law Society presents PROFESSOR JOSE PH BOARD speaking on: THE LAW SCHOOL APPLICATION PROCESS Wednesday, May 8 at 7:30p.m. ·Strauss Lounge ·Refreshments Will Be Served All Are Welcome Applications are now available for the 1986 Term in Washington, D.C. Students may obtain applications in the Political Science Office, Rm. 216, Social Science. for the fraternity system. The IFC reserves the right to investigate any incident which it deems as contrary to the .provisions in this policy. . \This is not a college policy,\ claims Massa. \This is a policy of the IFC which the College supports. If a fraternity does not abide by it they are not subject to College disciplinary action, however they are subject to the IFC\. The IFC' s en dorsal of dry rush exemplifies the national trend towards alcohol awareness. It is apparent .from the IFC decision that frater- · nities at Union are prepared to take a more responsible role concerning alcohol. In regards to this an.d the new rush policy, Massa feels that the IFC has done a \tremendous job.\ COLLEGE MAINTENANCE CO. \We Fix Anything\ •lawn Clean-up • Painting • Carpenterv • Landscaping • Small Applio~ce Repairs • Plumbing • Windaow Glazing No Job Too Small FREE ESTIMATES Reasonable Senior Engineering Students CALL MIKE 382-9688 JOHN 382·9159 Vehicle$ Included in the Plan. You may choose a new 1985 Thunderbird, LTD, Tempo, Mustang, Escort, Bronco II or light trucks up to F-250. •Pr!!-Approved Credit. Just meet three simple conditiO!l$: • You must have verifiable employ- ment that begins within 120 days of vehicle purchase at a salary sufficient (Parent's Wee:kend) Repent now. Buy tickets for Woody A !'len's hit comedy sponsored by Mountebanks Parent's Weekend-- May 9, 10,11 May 14, 16, 17, 18 Tickets on sale at Student Activities • $3 Studentsw/1 D • • $4 Faculty • • $5 Genera I Pub I ic • Watson= $10,000.00 Watch for more details Housing Lottery Tickets Available MayS Your credit record, if you· have one, must indi- cate payment made as agreed. • •uoo PurChase Allowance. Make your best deal... use the $400 as a down payment or receive a $400 check directly from Ford after the sale. ordinary living expenses and your vehide payment. • You must have proof that you have gradllaled or will graduate and be awarded at least a bachelors degf-ee within 120 days. Call Dennis J. Hurley, Jr. _ Orange Motors Company, Inc. 799 Central Avenue, Albany, N.Y. • 489-5414

going to logy see first may the the club majors not Union to .. ~le ~ ~a .--------------· ------=-=-=-=-=-=-::::- . Spend Two Weeks On An Island Off The Coast Of Maine IMAGES OF THE SEA LL 55;.F CONCORD/ENS/Sf May 2, 1985 . PAISA MIS~R 163 .lat St., Sllh'dJ -lndialnttorfs ..... 311·'1973 ..---- Bring in coupo.n.;•- Compiete Boutique Dresses, Skirts, Tops, Pants,.Brass.Gifts Jewelry, Wicker, Gifts, Etc., Etc. Open.Mon.-Fri. 10:00-6:00 p.~. • Thurs. 10:00 a.m.-9:00 p .•. AI t' A . . · PageS Fall Term _lnt,erdisciplinarv course Engmeering (WeiSs} Sociology (Kaplan) : ~~~~ PERSONAL CHE'cKS. A((·EPJED lAY,AWAY:W• w•llhold •lou• r,.,-,.--,1 , . _j H . Pur<hos~ with a smoll depq<JI ld . . I Biology (Boyer, Schadler) Philosophy (Morris) Ori,entation Meeting Tue.sday, May_ 7 .4:30p.m .. S-301 Sci. & Eng. ( B io. Lab- 3rd Floor) For more information contact Dean Kaplan--S-100 S&E (6223) . Fitzhugh Ludlow Day May 17th 1985 Seniors: Hawaiian Luau Is Coming! -·-·-·-;o·uR SiASONS'CHiNiiSERiiii uii4NT-:·l Phon. e': 393.-5440/393-5.4.41 Hours:._Sun·Th~l1:30-10:00 Sp_ecializ_· e in _Cantonese Fn-sa_t n: J0-11 :oo I .., ' Closed Mondays Szechuan~ Hunan Take out or Eat In We preJUire our foods with . • . Just a Little Bit of Luck and a Whole Lot of experience We're in Walking Distance 1 0% Student Discount f.or Take Out Orders Only W /Student I.D •. · 183 NottTerrace: Across from Holiday Inn IU .. DIBL_D_D_I_I_D_I t-&·li-1-·IUII~I-1- W ·-·-·-·- _.I ·-·- otal JTil--. I Q- A SPECIAL PROGRAM FOR NEVI GRADUATES CAN HELP YOU INTO A NEW CHRYSLER OR PLYMOm. With graduation here, you're probably ready for a · for a fraction of the purchase cost, with afford- new car. Chrysler Corporation understands the ably low monthly payments. You have six months graduate's problems establishing a credit history from the receipt of your degree to take advantage and getting together enough cash to fmance a of this exclusive program. · new car purchase. Now you can afford a new car, Mail the coupon below and get full details thanl~s to Chrysler's special r------ .... -------- --, of this special Gold Key Gold Key program for col- : FIND . : program for you, u· . lege graduates. 1 OUT. 1 the new college You can drive a new 1 graduate. Act now. 1985 Chrysler or Plymouth : MOREn 1 I SEND MY MATERIALS TO THE ADDRESS BELOW. I . ' ~ Name : 1 Address I I City State Zip I I I 1 College or Uni....,nitr I I Gnoduatioo Dale I I r.w~oo,a.ryoler-Piymo\IIIIQllloao~- I I mlE.Jellmon- I o.m:;c, ldl41!207 L-----------------~ - • • • • ... \. ..:. ·~ \ ',a ~- ~ ... ~ ... \1; .. <;4 ._ ~ • • ..... , ~ ~ ... - • • •

'\ .. Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, May 2, 1985 FEATURES o·Ka'f if I &MoKe? AfJ LON.G ag, You DoN'T Vi·otare MY ai.R g;pace. Food for Thought By TAYLOR . Contributor Aren't you hungry? Aren't you sick of campus food? .food? Where in this area can you find an establishment to satisfy your culinary desires? No, this is not New York City, or even Saratoga, but there are places in Schenectady and the surrounding areas that will satisfy even the connoisseurs. In my quest to discover someplace new and exciting, I stumbled upon The Pentagon, a restaurant next to Wendy's on Erie Boulevard. Unfortunately, this new establishment is not a place to write home about. However, it is the purpose of this column to Warn you, as well as tempt you. Get Psyched! The outside of The Pentagon is cute, but don't let that deceive you. The inside is dark with black vinyl seats and dark plastic tables. The bar is oval, made out of dark wood and leather. The restaurant as a whole tries to convey an elegant aura, but it never gets past tacky. The restaurant serves everything from sandwiches to By MARGARET BOITANO Associate Features Editor The Union College Psychology Department has proven to be an extremely active part of campus func- tionings this term by scheduling a variety of special activities offered to anyone interested in participating. The Psychology Conference a few weeks ago, for example, was hosted here on campus enabling students from surrounding colleges to visit Union while also studying research in the Psychology Department. Recently an ex- citing series of lectures have been introduced with the main objective of presenting new topics and figures in psychology today. Last weeks' lecture featured Dr. Norman Spear, a psychology professor at SUNY Binghamton, and his theories on Infantile Amnesia. Dr. Spear presented a detailed analysis of experiments done with rats thereby confirming his view that lack of memory is due to a difference in perception of events in infants as opposed to adults. Interestingly enough, infants often have difficulty in seperating particular memories from sense modalities. As a result, perhaps a certain song will be coded into memory by a particular smell instead of the actual sounds on the song itself. Retrieval cues become in- creasingly more complex and information is lost but never forgotten. Two lectures remain in the Spring series including one on Biofeedback presented by Dr. Jainie Garnett and one on Childhood Confusion of Memories by Dr. Marianne Foley. The lectures, actually informal discussions of developing topics in psychology, serve as an attempt to make more students in- formed abOut recent issues. For the Psychology Major, they are particularily helpful since they May 5 Is Solidarity Sunday Bus leaving 7 a.m .• for NYC to rally for the release of Soviet Jews & other Prisoners of Conscience Round Trip Fare is $10 Please send name, box, & phone # with check made payable to \Union College Jewish Student Union\ to Box 2525 IMMEDIATELY or call 6566 for more info. Why are there only seven pitchers in the Skellar? are directed toward. people with a background in psychology. Move Yourself, All Your Stuff, And Save, Too! It's as easy as renting a Ryder truck, one way. Compare costs before you make plans for moving at the end of the semester. If you're 18 or older and have a valid driver·s license, you can use a Ryder truck, rent-it-here, leave-it-there. Load up your stereo.lO-speed, clothes; everything. You'll still pave room, no doubt, for one or two friends with their things to share the cost Compare that to the price of a plane ticket Or even a bus. Plus shipping. Rent a newer truck from the best-maintained, most dependa- ble_fleet in !._he world- Ryder. The best tru_!:k money can rent ..................... I lQ. I I IIVD... I I Ryder Student Discou.nt Card 1 I I 15°/o Off One Way Rentals* I Anywhere in New England 1 I Call The Ryder Dealer Nearest You 1 I • Must be reserved 7 days prior to rental I I • Card must be surrendered at limo of rental I L . ., Non applicable with other promotions I ------------------- ~~~· RYDER RYDER TRUCK RENTAL 260 Burdeck St. Schenectady, N Q Y. ( 518) 355-2981 seafood, including lobster. It is believed that when a restaurant serves such a broad range of food, nothing will be out- standing. Unfortunately, The Pentagon is a fine example of this rUle. The appetizers run from $2.00 for six chicken wings, to $5.00 for shrimp cocktail. The loaded nachos, $3.50, were soggy and tepid. The Pentagon has a nice selection of salads and sand· wiches, all around $3.00. The salads were fresh, but nothing to rave about. The pi·esentation of the food is not especially attractive to the eye, and does not alert your eye as much as the $34.00 it cost for two dinners, including wine, appetizer, and two entrees. The wine list is surprisingly sophisticated and varied: The bar is well-stocked with the finest liquors. Happy Hour could be fun here. The only thing to be said about the service is that it was average. The Pentagon is a fair restaurant, but the fine liquor and wine list does not make up for the bland atmosphere and food .. Union College· Democrats Meeting Thursday May2 Stage II 7:00 Picked especiaUy for Mom ~· ~ ;' ~ ...... ,\\'~~ »'1!1'1~ ©RPP, Inc. Mother's Day Cards and Gifts from Recycled Paper Products Available at: The Union College Bookstore

If r. It is aurant nge of ~ out~ ·, The 1ple of rs run :hicken ~hrimp tachos, ipid. :1 nice sand• 0. The 10thing ntation 1ecially td does 1uch as inners, ~r, and 'isingly d. The th the Hour ,e said it was 1 fair liquor take up re and ts · Y'lf1'1fuv, Alpha Epsilon Pi . • . Number 18 Begun By DAVID FITZGERALI) Features Editor to helping him form another fraternity at the college. Oceans was told that there are already a nwnber of fraternities here that are weak and that another weak fraternity would not benefit anyone.. Oceans says that he was told that if interest still existed In two years it might be possible that another fraternity could form. For Oceans and many of the new brothers of AEPi, two years would be too late because they would be seniors then. CONCORDIENSIS, May'l, 1985 Page.7 FEATURES On April 20, eighteen Union students traveled to Syracuse University to become brothers .of the Alpha Epsilon Pi Fraternity. With this act the eighteenth fraternity at Union Cellege was established. According to Jason Oceans, the President of AEPi, there was a need for a fraternity such as AEPi and despite the fact that there is already a large number of fraternities on campus, AEPi can -exist and be strong. Oceans feels that AEPi has a special -\draw\ becauSe it is the only national Jewish Fraternity in the country. Oceans went ahead in- dependetly of the college and this was fine with the national chapter. After a pledge period of two months, the brothering ceremony took place. The brothers of Al·pha Epsilon Pi at Syracuse l:Jniversity after their initiation. - ' The Union chapter of AEPi started early in January when Oceans was approached by Andy Borans . the person in charge ·of national expansion. After meeting with Borans, Oceans wanted .to start a chapter of AEPi at Union. To start a chapter ten people are needed. The interest at Union was great because eighteen people decided to join. On February 19, the pledging ceremonies took place. Now that AEPi has been established Oceans hopes to receive official recognition from the college. In the future Oceans hopes that onmcampus- housing could be found but in the meantime off-campus housing is being looked for. Volunteers Ten Years Ago By SU$AN. FINKELSTEIN Union College's Volunteer Day focuses our attention on one of the most important 'lessons we continue to learn throughout our lives: when we contribute, we receive. Currently, AEPi is not of- ficially recognized by the ad- ministration · of the college. Ocean says that the ad- ministration politely said \no\ AEPi will be having its first party on Friday, May 10, 1985 at the Ramada Inn. ·This is the first au-campus function -of the fraternity. It is hoped that the party Will be a success. In time, Oceans is confident that AEPi will be recognized and take its place with the other seventeen fraternities at Union. I hope that every Union College student will take ad- vantage of the opportunity volunteer work offers to help others whlle gaining firsthand experience in a career field in which be or she may be in- terested. I urge every student to take the first step by takin~ part in • A The 1st Annua I Spring Bash at the RAMADA May 10, 10 p.m.-?· DJ Jay Dubson All Proceeds to Cha.-i:ty 25¢ Miclzelobs & Molsons $1.00 Drink Specials Parents Welcome Admission: $2 • T1ckets available at the door 1985 Hunger W alkathon The walkathon will take place on Sunday, May 5. If you are interested in participating, please contact Sr. Joan at 370-6087. The·ten kilometer walk starts at Linton High School at 1 :00 p.m. Twenty-five percent will g~ to: Crop, Catholic Family and Community Services, The Schenectady Inner City Ministry Emergency Food Program and Concerned for the Hungry. If you can't wafk, please sponsor a walker to Help the Hungry. A sign-up table will be in Carnegie the week of May 29th. .. All articles represent the views of the author and not the Editoria·l Board of Concordiensis Volunteer Day activities. Sincerely, Thomas N. :Bonner Every Tuesday morning, after his 8: 30 class in cell biology, Union College sophomore Ken Zimmerman makes the 15-minute drive to the Oak Hill School in Scotia. He spends the remainder of the morning there tutoring children with behavior and learning problems. In the afternoon, he works with · the children in crafts until they leave at 3 p.m. After a short meeting of the staff to evaluate the day, Zimmerman returns to his apartment for a few hours of studying and dinner. Then it's back to school for another meeting, this time to discuss the broader concerns of the school and to plan individual teaching strategies for the school's 15 students. Zimmerman is just one of a number of Union College students going volunteer vork in the Schenectady area. About 50 Union students participate in the county's Big Brother and Big Sister Program. One student has organized a Thanksgiving food drive on the campus in conjunction with the Salvation Army. But the Union College Placement and Career Counseling Office believes there could be more students doing volunteer work than there are- many more .. To get more students in- volved, the Placement Office will stage a \Volunteer Day\ on Wednesday, Nov. 19 to bring students and volunteer organizations together. About 20 \human service\ organizations, such as Schenectady Community Action, the Law, Order and :Justice Center, and Oak Hill School will man booths from noon to 6 p.m. in Strauss Lounge of the College Center, giving interested students the op- porutnity to meet represen- tatives of the various organizations ~nd to learn what kind of work each can offer. Students will have a wide variety of jobs from which to choose. The chief organizer of Volunteer Day, JoAnne Flynn, who is working in Union;s placement office as a graduate intern in SUNYA's student personnel services program, has an inch-thick stack of file cards representing n1ore than 100 voluntt;ler jobs available in Schenectady County. The jobs range from reporting for Schenectady's new \alter- native'' newspaper, 'Jhe New Citizen, to doing legal research for the N.A.A.C.P., to leading discussion groups on self• awareness and decision-making at local Boy's Clubs. So major an effort to recruit student volunteers has never been made before at Union. \Students bring an important dimen-sion to community work,\ said Nancy Dunne, director of the Voluntary Action :Department of the Human Services Planning Council of Schenectady County. She said she was \delighted\ when Flynn came to her with plans to hold Volunteer Day. Volunteer work can help students learn how to work with other people in organizations; ''something that can't be learned in the cl.assroom,\ says JoAnne Flynn. It also gives a student the chance to try out a certain field to determine whether it is 'one he or she wishes to make his . or her career. In addition, volunteer work can gain students job experience and recommendations which may help them obtain paying jobs later on, and will often impress graduate admissions officers. For many, however, the simple pleasure of doing something to help is sufficient motivation to volunteer. Volunteer work can change the way a student looks at life. Ken Zimmerman, for instance, was disillusioned by his highly analytical pre-med studies in chemistry and biology when his faculty adviser reconunended that he go to the Placement Office and get into volunteer work. When Flynn told him about Oak Hill School, Zim- merman liked the sound of it and applied for work as a counselor. Jon Tobiessen, director of the school, was impressed by Zimmerman's enthusiasm and interest, and took him on. That was six weeks ago. Today Zimmerman sees his education in a different light. \When I go back to my schoolwork, it has more meaning,\ he says. At the same time, Zimm(')rman feels he is improving both as the doctor he hopes to be one d!iY and as a person. Zimmerman will have three three-hour lags per week next term, compared to the two he is currently taking. But he's determined to continue his work as an Oak Hill School volunteer. ''It means too much to me to quit,\ he says. His feelings make one think that there might be something to it. Reprinted from the November 12, 1975 issue of Concordiensis. · Help Wanted Write For Features

PageS CONCORDIENSIS, May 2, 1985 LETTERS F'oundtil al Union College 1877 ------------ -------- Integrity Questioned Student Defends Security The letter to the editor of Aprill5 signed by Joel Musicant stated, ''my belief in the integrity of this medium (theatrical works) is severely diminished.'' Because th~ letter-written not by Musicant but by the play's director-was not a call for censorship but a ploy for publicity, the integrity of this play's ad- vertising should be questioned. Surely, the play could have been advertised by a more straightforward means than initiating a false controversy. It seems absurd that the play's directors would submit a false letter to the editor, reply to it them- selves the following week, distribute posters questioning censorship, and burn a Concordiensis-all to gain publicity through an issue that never existed. To the Editor: The article \Students Want Answers to Illegal Room Inspections,\ which was in the 4-25-85 Concordiensis brought up some valid points concerning the alleged searching of rooms by Security; however, the manner in which the article was presented was sarcastic, im- mature and journalistically Wlprofessional. . The case against · the irresponsible members of Security who violated students' · rights by searching their rooms could have been strengthened by presenting the facts in a clear, concise manner, making students and security aware of the incident without questioning the reputation of the Security Department as a whole. Instead, the reporter portrayed the two security guards as blithering schleps, stuttering through mlilti•syllabic words, slobbering mustard from their pastrami sandwiches, and going from door to door with guns drawn, overturning chairs, beds, tables and wastebaskets in search of some incriminating evidence. Security should be outraged at this description. The reporter goe& on to ex- plain that, \We students are not a bunch of criminals. We need a security force to protect us and our interests.\ This is a point well taken; however, the reporter then goes on to further belittle Security by saying they are, \a resentful police force (looking) for the pettiest things for which they can fine us, or prohibit our pleasure merely c.,_ because they cannot find pleasure in the same things.\ . Come on! This is an example of biased reporting to the ex- treme. Communication should be improved in order to improve relations between Security and students. This one-sided article only serves to increase con- fusion as to what actually happened and arouse feelings of · resentment by Security towards students. While illegal room inspections are wrong, piased, sensationalized reporting that fails to state the facts and serves only to degrade some people, or in this case an entire department, is wrong and should not be tolerated. · Sincerely, Colleen C. Adinolfi The editorial page provides an opportunity for members of the College community to voice legitimate opinions. It is unfortunate that the time and energy of the Concordiensis staff, readers, contributors, and others who take the paper seriously, were wasted for a mere publicity stunt. Fraud Uncovered In their letter to the editor ot Aprl12~, the directors, cast, and production crew of \God\ expressed a desire to \try to make our production as professional as it can be.\ Phony letters to the editor will hardly accomplish this. Dry Rush Finally, the IFC has taken it upon itself to deal with the problem of the ultra-pressurized fraternity rush habits which exist at Union. The answer to the problem: \dry rush.\ To the Editor: It has come to my attention that an act of fraud has been committed, and the Union College community has been deceived and deluded. · Two weeks ago, in Con- cordiensis, a letter to the editor was printed and appeared to have been composed by one person, when indeed it was not. It was composed by another party as a duplicitous publicity maneuver to create controversy and thereby increase at- tendance at a production at the Nott Theatre. Though this show is produced and performed purely by students, I believe that it is still a reflection on the Union community, faculty, administration and students. This kind of deception cannot be tolerated in the future, and though those resPQnsible for the scheme may have 'succeeded in creating an element of curiosity, and naturally an interest in the production, they should be chastised for their misrepresentation. If these two persons responsible intend to pursue the career paths that they have indicated interest in, they should re-evaluate their senses of responsibility and consider their perception of the truth. I believe some personal in- trospection is required to consider whether or not they are fit to serve those who wm· rely on them, if they can mislead their own peers, without much thought. What has been done cannot be undone, bu,t perhaps it c~n be avoided if it is acknowledged as a heinous falsehood that is an insult to the intelligence of all who have been deceived. Sincerely, A concerned friend Not only have they insured that new students will have the opportunity to get a taste of more than one house on campus, but they have also set aside a time when there will be no drinking allowed. At Union, there have been far too many instances where a new student has been pressured into drinking and then pressured into pledging. But nobody really knows if that ''pressured\ student ever wanted to make that decision in the first place. .. A Public Apology With the new plan, it is to be hoped that cases such as this will be eliminated from our campus. The policy-makers indeed did a fine job in addressing these problems and outlining the solutions. All students should be allowed to make their own decisions with a free and ciear mind, without the feeling that the \brothers\ will dislike them if they don't pledge. The \dry'' rush policy was developed by students serving on the IFC. This fact reinforces the autonomy of the organization and also adds to its credibility; it is truly an independent governing body. Another plus to the plan is that the discipline, if the policy is violated, will be handled solely by the IFC itself. Action against any offenders will not be taken by the administration; everything will be handled by the students themselves. This is an important step in establishing student independence. The independence to govern a large part of the student body is something which , previously was only the privilege of the Student Forum. The policy, on the whole, will do a great many people a great deal of good. Mostly, it will benefit those select few who become \scared\ into pledging a particular fraternity. It allow~ for (rather it demands) time to be taken in the decision as· to which house to commit oneself to, if indeed there is a house at all. A pledge to the IFC! ! Concordiensis Needs: Writers, photographers, artists and poets. Submit your name, box number and phone number to Concordiensis, Box 2577. To the Editor: Two weeks ago a letter ap- peared from Joel Musicant concerning the production of ''God.\ While it is true that Joel Musicant did consent to sign the letter, the letter itself was composed by the show's directors. The letter, controversial in nature, was not intended to mock or to deceive. Rather, the letter was to serve as publicity for the upcoming production and, ideally, to provoke thought about important issues. In submitting the letter we did not intend to offend anyone. We hoped that when Concordiensis readers were presented With a biased and extremist point of Lett.ers to the~. editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis ·All letters to the editor must be typed and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters . must be signed bot names will be withheld upon request. view they would consider alternatives and, as a result, take interest in the upcoming production. The letter in question generated a number of provocative and credible responses. We apologize if any members of the college commWlity took _ umbrage at our actions. Our purpose, simply stated, was to stimulate interest in the play and to increase awareness of Union's theatre activity. Respectfully, Scott Bloom Director Jennifer Paston Assistant Director

find ~ ex- be con· · that and ~ntire and ~rely, I in- d to they will· can be be ~ed as is an of all friend to ~ play ess of CONCORDIENSIS, May 2, 1985 . Reagan's Cemetery Visit By SHARON KASS President Reagan's planned visit to the Bitburg cemetery has ca~ed many comments among many different people. This is in direct response to remarks such as \What's the big deal?'', \this whole trip is being blown out of proportion\ and \why is there such a big fUsS being made?\ There is a unique quality of the American government; that being it is a government \in- stituted among ·men, deriving their powerS-from the consent of the governed.\ Are we being du1y represented in the case of the decision of President Reagan to go to the Bitburg cemetery? There has been a huge outcry from the people for President Reagan to reverse his plans as follows: 1) No fewer than 257 of the 434 current members of the House of Representatives have signed a petition opposing the visit. 2) The Senate and many war veterans have also vehemently objected. 3) Former West German Chancellor, Willy Brandy, and various heads of several European governments have also voiced objections. On perSon inl!ists upon the trip: West German Chancellor Helmut l{ohl. Something is terribly wrong. What gives the West German Chancellor the right to insist so adamantly that the American President place a wreath at the graves of the Nazi war dead (including members of the notorious S$. whose cohorts murdered at least 86 American prisoners on Pee. 17, 1944 in Belgium). And even if Kohl arrogates that right to himself, why in heavens name should Reagan accede? · To save Kohl from the political damage a cancellation might produce? Even if Kohl's entire political future depends upon it-which it surely does not- -this rationale can no longer justify the visit, given the national and international outcry against it. Or perhaps the purpose is to avoid offense to the German people? But surely a fair munber of Germans remember- -or know enough history to understand-the murderous role of the SS in WWII. . One wonders if those who consider this issue overplayed wou1d still hold that opinion if their parents, baby sisters and brothers had been ruthlessly beaten, gassed and burned by those heartless German Nazi soldiers that President Reagan wou1d now honor. The' president of the United States as defined by the Con- stitution is responsible to the American people. President Reagan has only one choice. He must cancel the visit and abide by the wishes of the people. He must reconsider this action and realize that such an immoral blight of history must surely be remembered, but just as surely must never be favorably recognized. The above are words, but all the words can never really express the complete horror and atrocious behavior in a particu1ar segment of history. The most encouraging aspect of this event is that people from many walks of life ·have over~ come indifference to produce a grassroots outcry of mo-ral indignation. So let us stand together in the firm belief that by objecting, analyzing and criticizing, such an event will never again occur against any people. Parents Weekend is Approaching Quickly . - . ( MaylO, 11, 12) Students: Ple.ase have your parents register Registration will be he.ld Fri. evening 5-7 p.m. & Sat. morning 9 a.m. in Strauss Lounge ·There will be packets for parents in,orm·ing them of special events The English Depart- ment is pleased to announce a lecture by Mert-on Sealts who will be at Union College from May 6\May 17 as ·Thomas Lamont Visiting Professor of Ancient and Modern Lite-rature. The talk, \Whose Book is MOby Dick?\ will be in Hale House Lower Lounge on Wednesday, May 8 at 8 p.m. A reception will follow in Milano Lounge. The event is free and open to the public. While on campus, Professor Sealts will visit several classes and Wi'll be available for informal meetings with faculty and students. For further information please ca II the EngUsh Depart- ment, ext. 6231, after May 1. Business Oriented Students: Have a iob yet? ''The Real World Of Business And You'' Learn from successfu I businessmen the art of interview and now to secure a job A FREE Seminar at the Nott Terrace Holiday Inn on Saturday May 4, 10 a.m.-2 p.m~ Food & Beverages Served Any Questions: can steve at 377-7100 Page9 COMMENTARIES - Right to Life By MIKE BOWMAN On Wednesday, April 24, the controversial filin, The Sllent Scream was shown on campus. Approximately 50 students saw the film and participated, in a question and answer period afterwards. The Silent Scream is a new film which depicts a first- trimester abortion, recorded through the use of u1trasound. The filin is narrated by Dr. Bernard Nathanson, a former abortionist, and it has recently become an important part of the pro-life movement. Two speakers introduced the fihn and answered questions after it was shown. Mrs. Virginia Horan, a registered nurse and President of Citizens Concerned for Human Life, discussedthe complex legal and ethical problems posed by Roe vs. Wade, the Supreme Court decision which legalized abortion on demand. Mrs. Horan also presented a statement by Dr. Ian McDonald, the world's leading authority on ultrasound, which attested to the film's authen- ticity. Mr. Robert Griesemer, Chairman ·of Schenecteady County Right to Live, prepared the audience for the film by clarifying some points made by Dr. Nathanson regarding the physical aspects of a typical first-trimester abortion, such as the one shown in the film. Mr. Griesemer also listed some questions for the audience to think about durmg the film such as, \Is life being taken away by the act of abortion?\ After the 28-minute film was shown, members of the audience asked several questions of the speakers. In -response to one question regarding legal restrictions on abortion; Mr. Griesemer stressed that abortion is legal in all nine months of pregnancy. At the conclusion of the discussion, the audience was addressed by Paul Edwards, Presdent of the Union College Pro-Life Forum, the group which presented the film. Edwards recently stated that, \Our membership has in- creased since we showed the film: Many students were deeply affeCted by the actual sight of an unborn child being aborted.\ Edwards also said that The Silent Scream~ s 50- person audience was the largest crowd of any U.C.P.L.F. event to date. Student Workers Needed for ReUnion Weekend Students who would like to work during ReUnion Weekend (June 14 and 15), please stop by the Alumni Office or call Mary at 6168. workers will be paid $3.35 per hour. A mandatory meeting of all student workers will be held on Wednesday, May 15 at 4:30p.m. in the Banquet Room .. Phi Beta Kappa Election Results On Monday, April29, the Union College Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa held its annual election meeting. Twenty-four seniors and five Juniors will be initiated into the Society on Monday, May 28. The new members are: Class of 1985 Deborah Ballard Shari Midoneck David Barrett Mark Milner Robert Bertagna Richard Molot Kim Czubaruk Paul Palaszewski Nina Delman Michael Palmeri Katherine Douglass Artemis Poulos Philip Ferrone Mark Richard James Heinegg Genevieve San Martin Mary Holt Craig Shalmi Cheri Hsu Robert Van Voris Adam Jarrett Marcy Wilder Margaret Flavin Kelly Mara Zimmerman Mark Arkovitz Leonard Cohen StacyDoce Class of 1986 Joanne Giambo Caroline Pangie Members of Class of 1985 elected last year Jennifer Inman Brian Papernik Sarah Schaefer Jeffery Van Detta John Whalen

•. Page 10 CONCORD/ENSIS, May 2, 1985 -----;.;;;;~~~-~-··~filii~========= -. The International Student \Israel and the Middle East CAREER NEWS (Information available in Career Development Center) . Mohawk Pathways Girl Scout Council offers voluntary positions to those interested in being a girl scout leader or assistant. Tiple can be adjusted to fit the intern's schedule. Mohawk Pathways is looking for someone interested in the mechanics of a human services organization. It is a voluntary position, and the hours can be adjusted to fit the student's schedule. Schenectady County offers a summer internship to a student interested in practical ex- perience in Civil, Mechanical or Electrical Engineering. Applicants should be Schenectady County residents. Identity Card Scholarship Fund after Lebanon.'' A reception for provides awards to University Ambassador Dinitz will im- and high school students who mediately follow the lecture in wish to study in the developing the Hale House Milano Lounge. nations of Asia, Africa, and Mr. Dinitz served as the Latin America. Students must Ambassador to the United be sponsored by a non~profit States for six years from 1973- institution or organization. 1978. He is presently a member of the Knesset and holds Teenage Magazine is looking honorary degrees from for a full-time editorial intern to Georgetown, Yeshiva and work for three to six months. Brandeis Universities, among The intern will be involved in others. The lecture is free and writing, research and dealing @pen to the public. with people. Applicants must be no older than 21. USOCA invites you to· attend a ·SPEAKERS. On Sunday, May 12 at 8: 00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel for- mer Israeli Ambassador to the United States, Simcha Dinitz, will give the fourth annual Anwar Sadat Memorial Peace Lecture. He will speak on short film and lecture on Guatemalan Refugees. The film, \Guatemala: The Other Face of a. War,\ will be shown on May 8 at 7:30 in SS 012. After the film there will be a lecture by Ellen Lawton (class o£1985) who has just returned from conducting research on Guatemalan refugees in Mexican refugee camps. /fre yN 7~~ fn:ri~;IJ~ -1M {hr\ly fbhey, ap::i;-IJ,;;id_ ~ ltltSe No! IJ/J I.Af(Jnf a 9/or-IW' $d/017/ yGfJ,- aYf/1 /tllltj~ ,r, lvmon, M 6=1 \\ fi;Y (J,. {# w : fc«< at ~f-? 'l. .... ./ p.'f ./ w.tt~t-;.. \__ NY Style Deli WATCH FOR OUR NEW· OUTDOOR CAFE! N.EWHOURS Open Mon.-Fri. 8 a.m.-8 p.m. Saturday at. a a.m .. -5 p.m. 160 Jay St. • 382-5493 CLUB NEWS Newman Meeting &Did Social-Monday, May 6 at 8 p.m., 4th floor Lounge, Car- negie. Prayer-Scripture Group~ Wednesday,May 8 at 11:30 a.m. with Sr. Joan in 4th floor Lounge, Canegie .. Confirmation Classes~ Wednesdays at 1:30 p.m. in Sr. Joan's Office, 4th floor, Car- negie. Tutorial Program~Any Union student interested in tutoring one hour a week at St. John the Evangelist School please contact Liz Karazim, 37()-6774. Newman Folk Group- Sunday evenings· at 6.:30 p.m. All singers and musicians meet with Friar Pa.ul to prepare for the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. New members welcome. Sunday Social-Following the 7:30p.m. Liturgy at St. John the Evan2elist on May 5th all are invited to a reception at the Rectory for President Morris and his wife Enid. The UNION COLLEGE CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP meets Sundays, 4:30 p.m., in Strauss Lounge. All are welcome to attend. Spring Picnic coming soon! ! ! A·CTJVlTIES Feminism and Gay Rights. Contact Phone: 462-6138 (eves.) Ask for Tim or leave a message for Sarah. On Sunday, May 5, 1985 from 1 to 3p.m. at the Lesbian and Gay Community Center, 332 Hudson Avenue, Albany, NY. Free beverages provided by the Center. Bring a dish to share, a friend, and an open mind for discussion on Feminism and Gay Rights.. · Spend two weeks on an island off the Coast of Maine. \Images of the Sea,\ LL 55-F, fall term. Interdisciplinary course with .Engineering (Weiss), Biology {Boyer, Schadler), Sociology (Kaplan), and Philosophy (Morris). An orientation meeting will be helii Tuesday, May 7 at 4:30p.m. in S-301, Sci. and Eng'g. (Bio Lab•-3rd Floor). For more information, contact Dean Kaplan, 8•100 .S&E (6233). The film committee presents: \The Terminator on May 3-5 _at 7, 9, 11 and on May 7 \Tommy\ at 7, 9, and 11 in SS016. President John Morris will be guest preacher, Sunday, May 5th at 7:30 p.m& Liturgy at St. John the Evangelist Church. The Union community is invited to be present and to attend a R~ception for President Morris and -hiw wife Enid in the Rectory immediately following the services. Camp Union June 1, 1985 The Union Co,Uege Bookstore

Rights. (eves.) 5 from 1 Gay Hudson Free by the share, a .for and island 'Images ~11 term. with Biology Sci. ~ab•-3rd ay 3-5.at :30 the • for • ~ CONCORDIENSIS, May 2, 1985 Page 11 CLASSJHE.DS. I $1 Bar Drink Specials, 25 cent Molson & Michelobs at the Ramada, Friday, May 10~ Jay ''The Ray\ Dubson spins yol!f requests!! Parents welcome. Proceeds to charity. Apartment available for summer! ·Excellent condition, modern kitchen and bath. TWO BEDROOMS! Good rent. ·Good deal. Call 377-3991. Typing: $1.50 per page. Fast, neat, and accurate. Ca11374-1720 after 1:30. 'l'he Rathskellar and Nor- thern Distributors, Inc. would like to thank all the participants of the annual Foosball Tour· nament and congratUlations to the following winning teams: First Place.: Ron Amidon and John Seebold Second Place: Dave Greenway and Steve Wing Third Place: John Matsuzaki and John Urbano. Aso Friday, May 10, is Sun Country Night at the Rathskellar. Where Did You Go .Spring Break! It's not too late to bring in your pictures to Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office. Deadline May 6th. Wanted: Behind the walls college student seeks other. For correspondence send to J.iJlio Vega 82 A 4722, P.O. Box 149, Attica, NY 14011. PERSONALS To my . authentic \XY\:.._I hope you'Ll look beyond the block of cauliflower and accept me the way I am. XOXO, your pseudo XY (X?) Chubby Baby-=-Happy Bir- thday! Do you know what happens when you get to be that old? The GHOSTBUSTERS come after you. I love Y()U. Scruffy 1 need you.-1 Love you. I want to have your baby. P.S. can i borrow your silk shirt? Mark Burton--6: 15 News Stud: Keep up the GREAT Work!!!! l !!'! P.S. How about a threesome in the bridal suite! Happy 20th Birthday to my favorite \real\ man!! ! The Union College Dutch Pipers present a pleasing performance of preposterous proportion on Saturday evening, May 4 at 8:00 p.m. in Old Chapel. Peter Piper .picked a peck of pickled Pip.ers. How many Pipers did Peter Piper pick? He . picked nine. Those nine Pipers will be performing on Sat~day, May 4 at 8:00 p.m. in Old (yes Old) Chapel. To my favorite Hillbilly~Just got back from Germany with your red Porsche and wanted to know if you wanted to come to Geneva with me and sip on some strawberry daquiris!! l.Qve-PP Bring your friends, bring a date, bring the kitchen sink, bring your friend's kitchen sink, but be punctual for the Union College Dutch Pipers perw formance on Saturday, May 4 at 8:.00 p.m. in Old Chapel. ROOKIES (i.e., Elmo, Linus, Wally, Bonehead, Spot, Pugsley, Gomer) Welcome to P.S.K.-the best bunch of brothers a Little Sister could have! WEATHERMEN: D.J. and J.D. . Y£5 - 11\'!1 SP~I~bitnJ;: 1tJ UoT 1-\1 ut-~lor-J 1 1\'\4~·rJ~S- ARE. 1 tJ E: \lt:tJ n(E: E:JJ c; I NE.E.~S A,g_e_ · FOW... rfl.OOt\ , ~,;! D yov tJ b 1'\fr.J D 5 , I)~\ tl 6 .St'l\.00 1\'-'t t-IME.- S f , A stormy week, but the harvest was good! Take a bow for a job well done. . S<:.~EA>.£'-1\'~ I) Y ! £ 11£: F.:y TI-l 1 tJ b t S. A Nl~ J BR\Q.rr GR4\Y .' Yo~! or~~~wl-'1'11 1 1>0E~ \1 (')t<:.E.' f\\.&:AtJ? -,- \-IOIIJEIJE.R} Tt\E- At>httJ\'Si\Rf\\tiON ' Hf\5 nt~. SfRit.JCTIM~ ELvES. P,H- W\AAT A. E£~iJi1FUt..­ Df\Y TO R\\SE IOtTIOrJ ! OR. D\D .I R.l\IS~ IT I · ye.s-n:.~1w? ot-t rJo! 1k 1 (;t:'ltll\l.G co,,n::usE..D Ac;P!lN • ~~s.-J4' • il)~,J TO mo.(Jt;HT; oF Lo\1'£ ! AIJD 11-1\:i I$ MV ~001'\Mf'tt'E J FeE.~HI'\ f\tJ } -r LoOk A:,T MY \ OE. S J \ L KtE/,...Y I £U~ PE.f\r-..1 f\\t\~SA ti\QL.A Hf\S lb~tJ-.1 WJO\qtJ() DOWN··· .•• AtJD z. \ P u P 1 . youR. FLY I 1}1lS ISNT • . I I WOoDS -rock·· 7 Q Join Seth, Winston, John, Curtis, Bruce, Mark, Jeff, Ken, and Dave (alias The Dutch Pipers) for an evening of musical entertainment on Saturday, May 4, at 8:00 p.m. in Old (yes Old) Chapel. Xoanon: Flaming oil .can be hazardous to your health! ! Remember, I am CHAOTIC good!!!! Always, Clarice Saint You're fantastic! UP ear Elisabeth Good luck on your test. And let's do it again soon! JimmY Distribution of Lottery #'s will be held on May 9 from 6:30·8 p.m. Seniors can get theirs in the · Residence Life Office, Sophomores in . Davidson Lounge, and Juniors in Fox Lounge. YOU MUST HAVE YOUR ID Coming Soon! Coming Soon! Earn Free College Credit While working in a summer camp for emotionally handicapped and learning disabled children. Need bunk, education, waterfront and specialty counselors. Call (518) 781- 4721 or write Stempel, Box 213, E. Chatham, N.Y. 12060. Clambake May 18 * HANDMADE sitVE:t1£wELRY *' Imported INDIAN CLOTHES & GIFTS Complet~ Une of PIPES, .SMOtuNG ACCESSORIES & ·Imported CIGAR.f;T£S.& TQBACCPS Imprinted ROCK & ROLL-GROUP '1'-SiiiRTS 'Ladies get your derby day teams together' Profs. Gmelch Reviewed The Department of Sociology and Anthropology is conducting third- year reviews for Profs. Sharon Gmelch and George Gmelch. Anyone wishing to contribute to either of these investigations should submit statements to Prof. Weiner, department chair, ext. Sponsored by Miller High life 6004. ~ ,.. .. \\\ -. 'II' ·- 'fo•

Page 12 CONCORDih\'NSIS May 2, 1985 THE ARTS ,_ ~ ::;) ,_ 0 -c >. ftl 0 >- .0 0 - 0 .c Q. The Lyres, along with The Reducers, and The dB's, played in Ah:Jmni Gym last week, bringing innovative punk to Union. · dB's~ Lyres., and Reducers hit Union ... Progressive Punk Rock By MICKEY BRADLEY Arts Editor Hutchinson may have summed it up best saying, \Union students don't give 'a f- about music.\ Be that as it may, the small attendance didn't infringe on the good time everyone had, or the impeccable rock· music dished out by three bands who were definitely worth seeing. WRUC 89.7 fM *STEREO TI:IE WRUC TOP 8.97 is staring you right in the face. Commit it to memory so you can refer to it at cocktail parties. Remember, request your favorite new music (at 370-6151) because the more it is played on WRUC, the higher it sits on this prestigious chart. This Week-Artist, Album 1. Tears For Fears, \Songs from the Big Chair\ 2. Joan Armatrading, \Secret Sunsets\ 3. Smiths, \Meatis Murder\ 4. SADE, \Diamond Life\ 5. Billy Bragg, \Brewing Up With\ 6. Velvet Underground, \VU\ 7_. Game Theory, \Real Nighttime\ 8. The Cucumbers, \Who Betrays Me & Other Happier Songs\ Last Label Week .Polygram · 2 A&M Sire 6 Portrait 7 · CD Presents 3 Verve Enigma 8.97 Fake Doom 8.97. Go West, ''Go West'' Chrysalis Program notes: Jazz is heard on WRUC weekdays froml to 4 p.m .. .. The Week in Review, on Thursdays at6 p.m., is WRUC's weekly news wrapup ... THE WRUC TOP 8.97 is aired exclusively every Wednesday night at 10:00 as a track from each album is counted. down. -comoiled by Evan Schwartz, WRUC Music Director To the campus community: The Ticket Booth in Carnegie has recently become a remote of Proctor's Theatre. This means that tickets can be bought on campus for all of Proctor's productions. The tickets will be available Monday: 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Tues., Wed., & Thurs.: 10 a.m.-7 p.m. Saturday: 12 a.m.-5 p.m. I think it's a fair bet to say that if the men who form The dB's, The Lyres, and The Reducers. weren't busy making music, they'd probably be breaking the law somewhere. As it is, despite their successful concert in Alumni Gym last Thursday, if I were on the Concert Cormnittee I'd have double counted the basketballs after the show. Which is a roundabout way of saying that all three groups capture per- fectly the minimalist angst (though in different forms) that typifies progressive punk rock at its best. musically. Despite a rather pallid opening song (it's amazing what three chords and some drugs can do), they came to life with their second song, \I Know You Don't Love Me No More,'' and kept the momentum up for most of the rest of their time on stage. Unlike The Reducers, The Lyres are more concerned with lyrics and song structure than with heavy and hard rock. Coming, as it did, between the other two groups, The Lyre's music stood out as more introspective and more cerebral than the bands before and after them. Mindless Motion Picture. Last Thursday's show was an interesting combination of where punk started (The Reducers), how it has evolved (The Lyres), and what it can be (The dB's). Each of these bands have been around for years, and all three hit in England before crossing back to America. Their concert was full of high energy, top quality performances, and some of the most exciting new music being made today. · The Reducers, who started things off, are a punk band in the classic sense of the term. While most other latter-day pWlksters have done a lot of experimenting (like the Lyres and especially The dB's) with different rhythms and effects, The Reducers still pound out ear-crunching power chords a la The Ramones, as if this were . 1977 instead of 1985~ In fact, much of their music reminded me of The Ramones; the fast, hard-driving guitar riffs, the short, powerful downstrokes- and with song titles like \Dear Mom and Dad I Hit a Maximum Depression Today,\ ''Black Plastic Shoes,\ and my per- sonal fave, \How Did Your Mother Ever Let You Get to be That Way,\ you know the connection is complete. Most interesting was \Out of Step\ (\the 45 that never was a hit,\ said leader Peter Detmold, with no signs of regret) and its highly autobiographical lyric \p<>pular trends just pass me by ... don't ask me to explain ... I'm out of step, out oftouch with reality.\ Whether that's true or not, The Reducers play with a lot more drive and energy than any of tod.ay's newer waves exhibit. The Lyres' set was a little calmer and more diverse Best of the bunch, though, was The dB's (deciBels), whose music is so fine, fast and catchy they quickly transcend normal definitions of punk and its manifestations. They per- formed many songs from their recent Like This album-their third lp and the first released in the U.S.-and it's not hard to picture these guys ending up with a substantial commercial following, especially if their performance Thursday night is any indication. Not strictly a punk band, the dB's have refined rock into their own brand: progressive, powerful, revisionist pop-rock is perhaps the best description of it. They're heavier than REM, smarter than Tears For Fears, and they write better songs than Let's Active. Some of their songs are so pop-oriented that I wouldn't be surprised if they ended up on the Top 40 some day. Take, for example, \Love is for Lovers\ which combines classic sixties guitar work with the dB's trademark rock sound.· Or \Lonely Is (As Lonely Does),\ in which the group layers on expressive keyboard passages to texture the tune perfectly. And \Rendezvous\ and \New Gun In Town\ both prove that the band can ex- pertly blend pWlk concerns with out-and;.out rock and roll. It was the perfect cap to an exciting triple bill, and the whole show gave conservative Union a much-needed shot of life. Trouble is, too few responded; despite the fact that approximately 300 tickets were sold or given away (in concert promotions), only about 100 or less people actually carne-and most of that was community residents or students from SUNY A and RPI. Concert Committee Co-chairman Pete By GAYLE ROSENFELD Staff Moving Violations typifies the mindless motion picture comedies so beloved by the adolescent crowd. But it is no wonder this film resembles other members of this genre for Moving Violations was created by the same two gentlemen, Neal Israel and Pat Proft, responsible for Police Academy and Bachelor Party. Proft, co-executive producer and co-screenwriter of Moving Violations, and Israel, co- screenwriter and director of the film, have churned out their most insulting film yet in the form of Moving Violations. In fact, the film might be more aptly entitled \Movie\ Violation for it sets the womeii's movement back twenty years let alone what it says about the American legal system. Nevertheless, films such as these are necessary for they make the truly good film look even better. The picture depicts the antics of a group of \characters\ sent to driving school after their various automobile mishaps. Dana Cannon (Bill Murray's brother John) leads his fellow classmates throughout all their mischievous endeavors. He is aided by rocket scientist Amy Hopkins (Jennifer Tilly of No Small Affair), Loretta Houk (Nedra Volz), puppeteer Scott Greeber (Brian Backer of Fast Times at Ridgemont High), limousine driver Spencer Popadophalos (Ben Mittleman of Making Love) hypochondriac Joan Pudillo (Wendie Jo Sperber of Bachelor's Party), car mechanic Terence Williams (Fred Willard of This Is Spinal Tap), sadistic Wink Barnes (Ned Eisenberg of The Exterminator) , Stephanie McCarty (Nadine Ver Der- Velde of Private School), and Jeff Roth (William Pugh of The Atlanta Child Murders). This is primarily an ''Us\ (Murray's crew) vs. \Them'' (the traffic cops) film. The \Them\ include Deputy Halik (Stacey Keach's brother James), Deputy Morris (Lisa Hart Carroll of Terms of. Endearment), and Judge Nedra Henderson (Sally Kellerman of MASH). It is Halik and Hen- derson who devise a scheme to impound Cannon and his cohorts' cars by flunking them out of drivers' training School. When Cannon gets wind of this, the supposed \fun\ begins. Moving Violations is a disappointment for many reasons,-but mostly because of the waste of talent involved. Murray has a certain charm, but it is too reminiscent of his brother's and not yet seasoned enough. Keach looks and sounds like his brother. but is talented CAMP UNION IS COMING JUNE 1, 1985 enough in his own right to turn down such demeaning roles as this one .. Kellerman is back in another Hot Lips Houlihan role, but the material just is not funny this time around to make her part work. Israel and Proft turned out this script in only five weeks: its lack of originality demonstrates this. This film is an unmistakable ripoff of Animal House. There is a sexual relationship between a young man and an even younger fifteen year old girl who acts way beyond her years. Dana and his bunch even manage to destroy, via a float, a Founder's Day Parade. There are a few humorous moments, but they cannot offset the blatantly bad scenes that surround them. The film's only redeeming quality, for some viewers, is its never-ending relay of automobile stunts. Moving Violations was produced by Joe Roth and Harry Ufland, co-produced by Bob Israel with executive producers Pat Proft and Doug Draizin. The fihn was directed by Ned Israel from a screenplay by Neal Israel and Pat Proft and a story by Paul and Sharon Boorstin. Moving Violations is a Twentieth Century Fox film release now playing at Cine 1-8, Northway Mall, Cinema 12, Crossgates Mall, and UA Plaza 1 and 2.

to it is Last Week · 2 M 6 7 . 3 8.97 .. ounted ector· pus to turn as back in role, is not make Proft in only of this. There is ~tween a younger acts Dana to offset ~nes that only or some was and by xecutive Doug directed Proft is a film Cine 1-8, 12, UA Plaza CONCORDIENSIS, May 2, 1985 Page 13 THE ARTS ltzhak Perlman at Proctor's ••• AU • . M •• n1que .· .us1c1an By DEBBIE ALBERT 1U'ts Editor Major.\ As most classical pieces are constructed, there are certain sections and there is The brilliant Israeli born a slight .pause after each one. violinist Itzhak PerlmaB per- When the two musicians paused formed at Proctor's this past during their pieces, the noice of Saturday for a packed house. coughing and slight whispers Accompanying Perlman was were echoing throughout the pianist Samuel Sanders, who is theatre. It was something to currently supervisor of the chuckl.e about after the fourth graduate program at the or fifth time. However, the JUlliard School. The audience musicians were not too pleased. was very receptive to the en• These disturbances did seem to trance of the musicians. break up the flow of the Perlman is· especially thought beautiful soothing sound, but of as a hero to the physically this did not destroy the won- handicapped community. As he derful talent of the performers. came to the stage, I felt a tinge Finally,. the set ended with a in my body when he walked with piece by Johannes Brahms, his crutches, which supported \SoBata in D Minor, Op. 108\. his lower body. He is symbol to Aftc;lr each piece, Perl.Illan many as a talented man who picked· up his braces, stood up, gives inspiration to those who bowed and left the stage with have lost their faith and pride Sanders, who carried along the way. . . Perlman's violin. The applause At the moment of his arrival, never ceased, and after the first the audience applauded him for set the lights went up for the a substantial amooot of time. It intermission. After the in- was obvious that the audience tel'Inission, a piece, \Sonata\, was. awaiting the return of this by Maurice Ravel was played. famed musician. He bowed as Then selections were an- the applaUSe continued and sat ttoUBced from the stage by down on a chair with Mr. Perlman. It was nice to bear Sanders behind. Mr. Sanders him speak, because one gets a was sitting in front of a newly better understanding of why he donated Steinway Grand Piano. is known as a musician who . This was a gift which gained its ''combines his personality and importance as it was to be technique in such a manner so played for the first time at_ this as to create an artistic force of performance. unique and compelling nature.\ I am no scholar of classical Besides the incredible sounds music, but I found Perlman and of the calming yet enthusiastic Sanders to be virtually flawless. classical music, a major There were two sets of en- highlight of the evening was the tertainment with a brief in- . award ceremony at the end of termission, iri between. The first '·the perfoi'IIlance. ·Mr. Perlman set began with a piece by Jean devotes much of his time and Marie LeClair, \Sonata in D effort to · the causes of the In show business circles, Steve Landesberg is regarded among the most versatile comedic entertainers i.n the industry. And Friday evening, May 10, 1985 in Memorial Chapel, the Speakers' Forum· will proudly present an enjoyable evening with Steve Landesberg. Steve recently completed a highly successful run as the erudite· Sgt. Dietrich on the highly acclaimed series \Barney Miller.\ During his six years on the show, Steve was honored. by his peers with three consecutive Emmy nominations. Landesberg's own sense of humor is very close to that of the character he played every week, a sense of humor so dry that you can't be sure whether he's nuts or just putting you on. His \off the wall\ humor, as Johnny Carson calls it, has been seen in his standup comedy routines on dozens \of television shows ranging from The Tonight Show to The David Letterman Show, to hosting Saturday Night Live, to prime time specials. During the past year, Steve has returned to the concert stage bringing his own brand of humor to sold out performances at concert halls and colleges across the country. Opening the show, which begins p.romptly at 8:00p.m., will be Union College's own Jim Havard. Havard has performed many times at Cabaret. He's a multitalented musician who should not be missed. • So buy your tickets today and see Jim Havard and Steve Lan· desberg for a most enjoyable evening of entertainment. handicapped and disabled. A center was built in the area, for the physically hand.icapped, and a trophy was awarded to Perlman for his devotion. For myself and my friend, the evening was a treat of listening to wonderful, famed musicians as well as felling proud for those handicapped people who are giving of themselves to help others overcome the struggle to live with a handicap. Arts Writers Needed CaU 6155 The Union College DUTCH PIPERS A Four-Part Men's Singing Group ... . . . With Tuxedos present A PLEASING PERFORMANCE OF PREPOSTERO:US PROPORTION WITH SPECIAL GUESTS: rheRUSSELL SAGE SAGETTES Saturday, May 4 at 8:00 p.m. In Old Chapel Bring your friends, bring a date, Bring the kitchen sink, bring your friend's kitchen sink, BUT BE THERE!! An Evening of Song By MICKEY BRADLEY Arts Editor Cabaret tickets were a hot item last week, as both the 9 and 11 o'clock shows quickly sold out. The attractions-both musical and both from fourth floor West's infamous \Zoo Crew\ -were guitarist-singer- songwriter Dave Provost and junior Chris Siler, with Mark Bernstein tying the show together as emcee. Provost's set formed the first half of the show, and it was a total success. Accompanied only by his guitar, he performed some well-known folk rock hits · by Neil Young, ftbe Eagles, Grateful Dead, Dan Fogelberg, and CSN. He also included two of his own compositions, both of which were interesting, well- crafted pieces. Provost is a highly talented performer-an engaging singer, a versatile guitarist (be took tiip.e out of his acoustic set tQ with Siler's back-up band on \Good Lovin\') and a provocative songwriter. This was not his first Cabaret performance and, one hopes, it won't be his last. After intermission, Provost's two R.A.s took over. First Bernstein came out to joke about upcoming Parents' Weekend, and then Siler opened her set of upbeat rock tunes with Pat Benetar's \Promises In The Dark\ followed by hits from The Go Go's, Scandal, The Rolling Stones, and others. Siler seemed very relaxed with her audience, introducing the songs, inviting them to dance, and singing directly to people in the crowd. Her show went off extremely well, thanks in no small part to her dynamic back- up band formed by Steve Glazer, Gary Siskin, Steve Minchel, and Sean Connolly (with Provost occasionally joining them). Siler left the stage to give the band the spotlight for a while, and it was the most electrifying ten minutes of the evening as the group tore through several nmnbers, taking turns with the solos and driving the audience wild. They did the same thing at the show's close, as a second encore after Siler's own. The evening was a lot of fun for audience and performers alike. The only sour note was sounded at the 9 o'clock show when a large portion of the audience left during in- termission (not as a reflection of the acts), leaving the Cabaret Room only about half full for the second segment of the show. An angry Luke Fannon pointed out to all at the outset of the 11 o'clock show, that this is rude to the rest of the audience and a considerable disservice to the acts performing. If you plan on attending tonight's Cabaret, try to stay till the end. And get your tickets soon-they don't last ·long. (J) '0 0 .... I.. ro ::l ji'ii > .c 1/) E 0 .c c. ( L) Oave Provost and ( R) Chris Siler both performed for a packed house at Cabaret this past Thursday night.

Pagel4 CONCORDIENSIS, May 2, 1985, SPORTS • . . c.rowned upstate champions Ruggers Romp By J. R. FORTUNATO Sports Staff The rugby fields in Windhover Park were the proving grounds this past weekend for the much· talked about potential of the Union College Rugby Team. And everything the team promised-unyielding support both on and off the field, dominance in the Upstate Rugby Union, and a second consecutive championship, became a reality as the team swept the URU's Annual Spring Tourney, scoring a total of 74 points against Hobart, R.P.I., Albany State, and University of Buffalo, and giving up ab- solutely none. Not only is the team No. 1 in Division II, but since U. of B. was the division I champ last fall, Union sits right on top of the entire league. The A-side tourney started Saturday morning, under an un- commonly blue sky. Hobart was Union's first victim, showing up just in time to be literally beaten into submission. It was Tim \Smiley\ Riley who scored first, after only a few minutes into the game, weaving his way up the sideline and putting the ball in thr try-zone for the first time this spring. Only five minutes later, it was Steve Konlian who dodged, sprinted, and blasted his way into the try- zone from almost thirty meters out. Near the end of the first half, Robby Israel scored his first try of the spring, just before Andy Klump took one in himself. It wasn't too long before \Smiley\ was at it again, making a nice run up the middle for his second of the game. To no one's surprise, Andy capped off the game with another try. Unfortunately, Andy was only able to convert one out of the six tries, leaving a score of 26-o. Soon after the A-side's debut, the B-side bracket was under the control of Union's Killer B's. Performing like bees in a hive, each player doing his job with precision, the B-siders em- barrassed an A-side Clarkson team, beating the team in green 9-3. At half time, after an entire twenty minutes filled with bad referee calls made against Union, Clarkson led 3-o. But it was Tim Hopkins who lifted the team's spirits high by kicking a field goal for three points from nearly fifty meters out, im- pressing all with his ability. Later in the second half, Larry Grad carefully removed the ball from a ruck that had for~ med near the Clarkson try-zone, and scored the game's first try. From an incredibly hard angle, Hopkins again split the uprights, converting the try. The tough B's hung tough, and walked away winners. Later that afternoon the second stringers faced a greater challenge of playing Syracuse's B-side. The day had been too long for the Union men, as they lost, 0-7, and were consequently out of the B-side tourney. Still later that day, Union'sA- side moved on to play R.P.I. in the heat of the day. The bad field conditions did nothing to stop the Garnet from walking all over the Engineers in a match that seemed to be a mis- match. The Union serum, which had dominated the Hobart serum earlier that day, showed no signs of fatigue, as it again dominated the \hidden\ part of the game, gaining possession at almost every serum-down, and pulling down the ball at almost every line-out. But, although it was the serum that won the ball over each time the opportunity arose, it was the line that ran the ball in for the scores, with cool-handed ease. \Smiley\ .performed like an acrobat right in the beginning,. whizzing by the perplexed R.P.I. defendees effortlessly, and putting the ball down in the try-one ; right .square in the middle, taking his sweet time. A few minutes later, Robby Israel took one in from inside the twenty-two meter line. Late in the first half, Steve Konlian made a nice twenty meter run despite his elbow injury~ Robby Israel kept up the hard work, scoring again in the second half, and setting up another Steve Konlian try, in which Steve 'tip- toed into the try-ONE. Andy converted two fo the five scores that afternnon. The line had had a truly great day, scoring almost every time they were given the chance. The following. day tested the serum's ability to make up for problems in the line. Not only did the serum intimidate, mutilate, and demonstrate dominance as usual, it also scored, when John Friske took advantage of the opposition and scored on a penalty play. Dave Blee, another scrummer, scored by kicking a field goal later in the first half. \Smiley\ started off the second half with a short run up the sideline for his fourth score of the weekend. Later in the second half, Dave Blee kicked another field goal. Throughout the game, the next victim (Albany Ste, in this case) had been frustrated and out- played, as Union beat the street~ fighters, 14-0. The climax of the day, of the season, and of the yearfor Union came that afternoon, as the Garnet clashed with the defending Division I cham- pions, University of Buffalo. The faithful B-siders gathered, not knowing what was about to take place, but hopeful and supportive nonetheless. The opposite side of the field sported players from the teams that Buffalo had beaten, perhaps because those players knew just how close it was going to be- Union was the talk of the town, of the region, and of the league- and Buffalo was the most consistently winning team in the league's history, both bigger in number of students and lower in admission requirements. Right from the opening kick-off, however, U. of B. faced the toughest game it had played that day, this season, or this year. Throughout the first half, the ball moved up and down the field, after a brief threat by Buffalo in the opening minutes. The half-time whistle blew after thirty minutes of intense play, with the score tied, 0-0. Then came the rain. The field moistened and the uniforms muddied, but the Union serum continued to dominate play in all respects, stealing Buffalo's throw-ins, and pushing the maroon serum without breaking stride up and down the field. In fact, it was the big prop; Steve Lipsky, who leaned his way in for the first score of the game. The. ice had been broken. Union had not only continued to prevent anyone from scoring against them, but had gone one step further-they had put themselves ahead of the best team in Upstate New York, for all to see. All the Gamet had to do, and perhaps just what a By .JAYGROSSMAN Sports Staff In trying to find one athlete that stands out as most responsible for leading the Union rugby team -to the Division I Upstate Cham- pionships, one finds that it was not any individual effort that led the ruggers to victory but a total team effort. Therefore, this week's athlete .of the week honors will go to the entire Union rugby team. This past weekend, in the Division I Upstate Championships, Union faced number one ranked Buffalo, division I champions in weaker team would do, was keep Buffalo from scoring for the remainder of the game. The championship would be theirs. But once was not enough, as Steve -Cole picked up the ball that Robby Israel had loosened by hitting the Buffalo back who had been carrying it, and ran it in for the .second try of the Athlete of the Week the fall. Union defeated Buffalo by a 10-0 score enabling them to capture the championship and the nwnber one ranking. Union nad captured the division II championship in the fall, so, in effect, the final game was a playoff between these two top teams. Thx·oughout the tour- nament, Union dominated play scoring 74 pts. for and allowing Oagainst. They crushed Hobart, RPI, and Albany, in order to reach the final game. The Union rugby record stands at 14-1 on the year and 7-1 for the spring season. The team has allowed only 21 pts. against them in this spring season. This team has made a complete turnaround from four years ago when the team's record stood at 6-10 for the year. The reason for the team's game. The instant after Dave Blee converted the try to total the score at HHI, the referee blew the final whistle,· and the Union College Rugby Club was the number one team in the Upstate Rugby Union. The title was made offical when the founder of the United States Rugby Union dedicated a immense success is that they have been able to form a cohesive unit over the last three years. 'The team bas eight seniors on a squad of 15 and they have been able to work.together as one unit for the past three years. Tea:m.members feel that the team has become a hard- working serlous team which has also led to their success. In addition, the ruggers instituted a complicated offense which required intelligent play on the part of each team member. The unselfish play of 15 indiViduals within the framework of a total team effort enabled the team to capture the Division I Upstate Championships, the best record in almost tOo-years of Rugby at Union, and earns the entire Union rugby team athlete of the week. Qj ro I.. \' .!l 0 a:: > .!l 0 - 0 .c: 0. plaque to the team as the Buffalo squad looked on with envy. Any doubts about the quality of the Rugby played here at. Union, if not already dispelled, will be quickly after a short walk to the local Rugger hangout, Slapshots, where the plaque shines brightly, for all to see. Hats off to the URFC! . Delta Gamma Olympics Are Coming! Get your _teams together May17 Submit·a team of 5 men and 5 women by May 3 to Box 634. Fee of $3 per person fort-shirtS: All Proceeds go to Sight Conservati·on and Aid to the Blind

k they a eight ~ether three ~1 that hard- In ituted the The total to pstate ~by at of the Qi ltl ,_ <ll .!2 0 0: > .!2 0 ,._ 0 ..t: a. the n with the played after a ~re the all to CONCORDiENSIS,.May 2,~1985 Wo.men's Lax Shoots for .500 Finish l;'y HEIDI KAHN Contributor With a current record of 4-'5, the wo~en's lacrosse team will have to 'give it their aU iii their final two games to finish the If) If)' <lJ ,_ a.. ,._ - 0 u Vl > .!2 0 - 0 ..t: a. team entered the game qUite confident due to a victory over Sage earller into the season. Union was at its best and dominated every aspect of the game. Freshmen standouts Junior Lorna Rushforth cradles the ball as she looks for an open teammate. season with a winning record. The Squad is comprised of in- dividuals who are both knowledgeable and skillful, but the consistency of their playing must be improved. The Dut- chwomen continue to either win big, or lose badly, with a close game rarely being played. One of those big wins came last Thursday against Russell Sage with the laxwomen demolishing Sage 21-4. The Debbie Hoden and Jane Barkin put on fine performances at offense as did senior captain Carolyn Gilbert, a defensive player who rushed for a goal and also sophomore Elaine Pick. The \big\ loss fell upon Union at Middlebury with the Dut- chwomen losing to the Panthers 22-2. The Middlebury squad fully dominated and kept Union from possessing the ball for any .• . receives permanent position length of time. Senior Kathy Fitst and junior Lorna Kash· forth botb managed to break through the offense and score, but it was evident e~:~rly in the game that a win would be im- possible. Junior Cheryl Wash· burn did an outstanding job at defense but was virtually helpless due to the precise .passing and shooting by the opponent. Amore evenly matched game was played last Saturday when Hamilton edged out Union 12-3. After losing ·by a big soere to Hamilton last season., Union's squad was not too disappointed in its .performance. The Dut- chwomen got off to a flying · start, but the score was tied at 4· 4 at. the half. Junior Bonnie FaUlkner played a great game contributing half of Union's points, but a knee injury prevented her from finiShing the game and may put her on the disabled list for the next game. Junior Re.becca Clemente also added a point for Union as did Gilbert, Pick, and Furst and junior Lorna Rush- comeback, however, their momentum just kept mounting. There is still a chance for the Union women to finish above :500. Their last home game will be played today on the turf against Wells College at 3:30. After that, they are on the road to Hartwick for their final game. Coach TOop Here To Stay By C. SLOTNICK Sports Staff Mike Toop came . over from Albany St. as interim varisty lacrosse coach this year. However, after rejuvinating the program and leading the team to six victories st midseason, athletic director Dick Sakala has appointed Mike Toop to the permanent position of full time varsity lacrosse coach. Not only has Toop improved this year's team win-loss record, but he· has also enabled the players to have a stronger commitment to their sport. Toop insists that they discipline themselves in order to avoid mental errors. Another key to the success of this year's team over Dutchmen squads of the past is Toop's coaching strategies. Coach Toop insists that his players be patient on offense, and careful about their shot selection. This philosophy has produced a remarkable 26 percent scoring percentage on all shots taken.·· Furthermore, Toop emphasizes that his defensive players use their foot quickness rather than their stick in stopping opposing at- tackmen. While talking· with coach Toop, he spoke of his \love for the game.\ But, what is unique about Toop, and is rare with coaches in any sport today, is that Toop never played organized lacrosse. He grew up in Long Island, a hot bed for lacrosse, and went to the Merchant Marine Academy at King's Point, where he played linebacker for four years on the PLAcE : Chi Psi lodge TIME: 11:00 p.m. WHAT: 17th Annual Charity Party To Benefit Dystonia & Hemophi,lia THEME:·Jungle love Appropriate AHire Reque~ted football , team. Subsequently, through pick-up games, coaching clinics, and lacrosse textbooks he acquired a vast knowledge of lacrosse, and has become a dedicated student of the game. Toop's seriousness to the Union lacrosse program is evident by his plans to put all varsity players on a weight training 'program, and institute fall practice. Although Mike takes lacrosse seriously, it is refreshing to see the im· portance he places on academics, (according to Toop) \Academics is the Bottom Line.\ Mike realizes that students primary objective is to receive an education, and he is supportive of this ideal. Toop attributes the six wins this year, the most a Union lacrosse team has won since 1978, to the player's serious commitment, and the help of assistant coaches Jim Schaeffer and'Bill Hess. When asked what his goal was fot the Union lacrosse program, Coach Toop responded without hesitation, \a National Championship.\ Tickets for SENIOR FORMAL on Sale Monday, May 5 $12/person $50 I group of 5 · it will be held Fri., May 24 at the Gideon Putnam Page 15 SPORTS Josh Gree:ne On Sports . As the 1985· spring athletic season comes to a close, both Union College lacrosse teams find themselves just a little bit hungrier this ye~r than in years past, the idea of a winning season seems firly implanted in the mids of aij. With only three games remaining, the men's team sports a chance to achieve a .500 record for the first time since 1978, when they were 6-5. The Dutchwomen stand at 4-5, with victories in two out of three of their remaining games, they can secure a winning record for the second year in a row. Competitive Again: Under the leadership of Coacb. Marty Morrison, the women's lacrosse team has once again proven that they can be competitive after suffering through two sub- par years. In 1982 and 1983 the Dutchwomen had a combined reeord of six wins and twenty losses. Last year, the team posted seven wins and six losses, their best record since 1981 when they were 8-3. Graduating only four seniors this year, the future seems bright for Morrison and he~ squad, however, the present goal is still a winning record. Leading the way for Coach Morrison's squad this year has been junior Bonnie Faulkner, senior Laurie Bidstrup and rookie sensation Jane Barkin. Faulkner has tallied twenty- three goals, netting seven in a one-goal loss to Williams. Bidstrup, a four-year letter winner has provided experience and leadership while packing a scoring punch as well, she has ten goals. Barkin, in her inaugural campaign sports impressive statistics, is second on the team in goals with six- teen and leads in assists with four. Seniors Kathy Furst and Carolyn Gilbert have con- tributed offensively recording seven and five goals respec- tively. In addition to Faulkner, the junior class is well-represented on this year's women's lacrosse team. Sue Stewart, Cheryl Washburn, Rebecca Clemente, Astrid Morsch, Janet Schieferdecker, Mary Soley and Lorna Rushforth round out the class with all having had previous playing experience. Rushforth ranks third on the team in goals with thirteen and has two assists to her credit. Debbie Hodin is the only other freshman on Coach Morrison's roster and has five goals and two assists. The goaltending is handled by Monica Lobel, who in her third season in the twines has provided solid play and leadership for the defense. With remaining games against Wells, Oneonta and Hartwick, two of which are home on the turf, the prospects for a second consecutive win- ning season loom for the Dut- chwomen. Winning Attitude: With the help of a new coach the men • s lacrosse team is heading towards its first winning season since 1978. In Mike Toop, the Dutchmen have a leader who has already proven himself as a winner as well. Toop is a: graduate of the Merchant Marine Academy where he was an honorable mention All- American linebacker for the football team. He has held the position of defensive coor- dinator and assistant lacrosse coach for Albany State since 1982. In less than one full season at the helm, Coach Toop has already been given full-time status as the permanent lacrosse coach and an assistant to Coach Bagnoli in the fall seasans. Offensively the Dutchmen are led by seniors Marc Ehudin and Eric Kaye and freshman Phil Horn. Ehudin has been the mainstay of the Union attack for four years and leads the team in scoring this year with twenty-three goals and eleven assists. Kaye has formed a potent one-two punch with Ehudin as they have played together for their entire Union careers. This year they have been joined by another talented attacker, freshman Phil Hom. Horn has provided the attack with a second potent scorer to go along with Ehtidin, he has been credited with twenty-one goals this season to date. In the inidfield Toop relies on three juniors heavily, Mike Weisberger, John Romeo and John McCormick. All three have had past varsity ex- perience and look to be the backbones of next year's team. On defense, the team is led by seniors Todd Johnston, Tom Meyer and co-captain John Drake. The most pleasant surprise for Coach Toop this year has been the play of rookie goalie John Thorne. Thome, from Syracuse, New York, has been a stalwart in .nets for the Dutchmen saving over 65 percent of the shots he has faced. As the season comes to a close for Coach Toop and the Dut- chmen they have many things to be thankful for: the possibility of their first winning season in years, the arrival of Coach Mike Toop and most importantly, the arrival of a winning attitude which will backbone the Union lacrosse program for years to come! Union College- St. Andrews Exchange Program WHAT--The Union-St. Andrews Exchange Program offers the opportunity to win a full scholarship (tuition, room and board) to attend the University of St. Andrews in St. Andrews, Scotland. WHO--Union College students who will have Junior standing during the 1986-86 year may apply. HOW--Applications consist of a 4-5 page essay describin.g something which you consider to be one of your most important educational experiences. In addition to the essay, you mus.t submit a transcript, and one letter of recommendation. WHEN--Essays are due by 5:00p.m. Wednesday, May 8. WHERE--Essays, transcripts and letters should be directed to Prof. Klein, Department of Economics (Soc. Sci. Bldg., Room 123 or 212). For further in· formation, contact Prof. Klein in SS123, or at x6056. WHY--You decide that.

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, May 2, 1985. POR Batmen Win Six Straight ByCPSIS Union baseball is on a hot . streak. The Dutchmen, who have not had things go their way early on in the season, have come onto their home field in Central Park to take matters into their own hands. As of April 18, the Dutchmen had a un~ wanted 4-6 record, with their heads held low; but with some timely hitting and steady pit~ ching.they have won six straight to seat them at 10-6. The streak started with a clean sweep of a doubleheader vs. Norwich. On the mound was righthander Steve Alves. Steve pitched 6 complete innings giving up a mere 4 hits and Ken Huran finished the seventh inning striking out one. The Dutchmen won 5-l behind the base~ stealing of Reinhard Walker (2-2) and Alex Rita's home run. Union had 6 hits. Markopolus singled to make it first and second. A fly out made it two outs with freshman Glen Kata at bat. Kata jumped on the first pitch for a game saving double scoring both runs. The game went eleven innings when Steve Alves hit the game winning single with two on. Bartosch made his record 3-1 going the f1ill eleven innings giving up 6 hits and striking out 8. scored the game tying run · when, again Steve Alves hit a strong double down the left field line. Steve Alves was called off the bench to pinch hit and came through for the team. Next,. 0 Reinhard Walker hit a game winning sacrifice fly to score Andy Markopolus from third. Union won 6.;S, Ted Cannon got the win making his record (3-1) and Pete Brown helped coach his first win of the season. In the second game, senier Nat Harris pitched an excellent ~ game allowing only two hits as ~ Union won 2-1. Union went into ~ the bottom of the seventh inning 8 tied 1-1, when Glen Kata led off Vl with a clutch base hit and then il stole second. Andy Markopolus .E bunted Kata to third. With two _g men on base, the Norwich Q. pitching collapsed as they walked the next two bringing in the winning run. Again, Union had 6 hits. Union slugger Pete Cohan takes cut in recent action at Central Park. ... NOTES ... The Dutchmen will enter the Empire Cup baseball tournament which has been instituted for the first time this season. ..--~----SPORTSWEEK -------. May2-May9 Thursday 5/2 Men's Golf at Middlebury Women's Lacrosse v. Wells Men's Track at Colgate Men's B.aseball Tourney Men's Lacrosse at Colgate Saturday 5/4 Women's Softball v. Russell Sage (2) Men's Tehnis v. Hartwick Men's Baseball Tourney MondayS/6 Women's Lacrosse at Hartwick Tuesday 5/7 Men's Baseball at Hartwick Men's Tennis v, Hartwick Wednesday 5/8 :Men's Lacrosse at Hartwick · · . ·Thursday 5/9 Men's Baseball a.t Willi.ams Men's Tennis at Williams 1:00 p.m.· 2:00p.m.· 11:00 a.m . 1:00 p.m. 11:00 a.m. 1:00 p.rtl. Sunday 515 · 3:30p.m. 3:30p.m. 3:30p.m.: :too p.m. 3:00p.m. 3:00p.m. 1-----GARN ET SCOR E<BOARI)-· ----\\1 April23 - A pri I 30 Union6 Union 6 Union 3 Union 11 Hamilton 14 · Williams 7 Union9 Hamilton 6 Oneonta 3 Hamilton 12 Union 21 Unions Colgate 7 RPIS MEN'S BASEBALL (10-6) MEN'S LACROSSE (6-5) SOFTBALL (9-2} WOMEN'S LACROSSE (4·5) MEN'S TENNIS (3-3) GOLF (3-3) Union325 . Hartwick lnvy: Unionfinishes4thof8teams. Middlebury 5 Middlebury 4 Colgate 2 (ll) St. Rose2 Un.ion 9 Union6 (20T) RPI6 Union 1 Uniono Union 8 Russell Sage 4 Skidmore4 Union2 Union 4 AIC333 The next game was against St. Rose. Junior Ted Cannon made his record 2-1 as he pit- ched 6 strong innings giving up 4 hits and 1 unearned run. Fresh- man, Tim V alachovic finished up allowing only 3 hits and 1 run as Union defeated St. Rose {11- 2). Union had 12 hits; 2 each by Reinhard Walker, Tim Alibozek, Alex Rita, and 3 hits by Pete Cohan including a triple, double, and a single. Union had 3 straight wins with Division I Colgate up next. The most recent game was a doubleheader vs. Middlebury this past weekend. Union won the first game 6-4 as Nat Harris went to (3-1) by striking out a season high of 13. Union was led by senior Tim Alibozek as he played superb defense and went 3-4 adding each a hit for the team total of 6 hits. Stone Boats Float The second game was an image of Colgate. Ken Huran started and pitched 6 innings of strong baseball as Union went to the bullpen to bring up Ted Cannon. He entered with the score 4-4, and Middlebury squeezed out one more run. At 5- 4, Union was not about to give up in the last inning. Union By BRIAN KEATING Sports Staff The Union College Stoneboat Club proved again last weekend that concrete canoes do float, and float well. The club traveled long and far to host Penn State University to race against ten other colleges in a highly competitive meet. Five seperate races were run including a mixed, womens, mens, faculty, marathon !find medley race. Each race ran three heats with the best times from each going to the finals. With some determined paddling and canoes that were per- forming well, Union managed to reach the finals in every category. Rich Bartosch was on the mound for one of the more exciting games that week. Colgate scored two runs in the second game to break the o-o game. Then the Union defense and a strong pitching per- formance by Bartosch took over. Not another Colgate batter touched third base in regulation play. Union was down 2-o in the bottom of the ninth inning when Alex Rita led off with a base hit but was forced out at second on a nice grab off a Tom Barrett hard hit ground ball. Next, Andy Support Union Sports Track Hosts Open In the mens final the team of Jim Griggs and Pat Salvador got off to a slow start but quickly outdistanced the competition with some. in- credibly determined paddling. They placed first, winning by a good two canoe lengths. In the mixed race both canoes from .Union made it into the finals but some questionable paddling techniques used by the Nassau team resulted in a Union loss as our canoes became tangled. In the womens final the team of Caroline Hutchinson and Elissa Adler got off to a good start but became entangled with other canoes that were completely out of the control of their paddlers. A strong team of women rugby players from Lafayette College took qUick advantage of tne situation and placed first . • • • face Albany State Crew Tests Mohawk By LANCE HUMPHREY Sports Staff While cold winds raced down the Mohawk River Friday af- ternoon oarsmen from Albany _and Union raced upriver to the finish line. Inspite of the weather, the race hosted by Union and attended by SUNY Albany was a great success. Several heats were run in- cluding a novice women's four, women's novice eight, and a newly formed men's novice boat which had not yet rowed a race. The men's first novice boat won Albany's shirts in one of the most exciting heats of the day. There was no race for Union's varsity oarsmen since Albany's program is a newly founded one and has yet to establish an experienced varsity boat. On Sunday the varsity boat and the men's first novice traveled to Lake Onata in Pittsfield, Mass. to scrimmage with the crews from Williams. Although no actual 2,000 meter race was run the two teams spent the afternoon training together in preparation for their race with Trintiy this Saturday. John Ciovacco, President of the rowing club and varsity oar- sman, speaks about the teams future, \After strong showings against Ithaca and Williams the varsity crew has tremendous potential for a good race against Trinity this weekend and at the Dad Vails regatta the following weekend. There are noticable weaknesses in our form com- pared to other outstanding teams, but if we can clean up our style we are sure .to surprise a lot of people.\ · The team leaves Friday for its race Saturday with Trinity. The big race of the year for cr,ews in Union's league is the Dad Vails Regatta held on the Schuykill River in Philadelphia on May 9 and 10. By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff Under rainy skies Friday night, the Union track team hosted the Union Open track meet for a thinned field of competitors. The fe~ other schools represented at this meet were Hartwick, Siena, Marist, and Oswego. No team score was kept. Winning and outstanding performances for the Union men's team were as follows: In the long jump and the triple jump, Union was able to take first and second place in both. In the long jump, Billy Craig took first place honors with a jump of 20 ft. 4 inches. He was followed in second by Wayne Lacy with a jump of 20 ft. In the triple jump, Bob Bertagna and Tony Holston went 1-2 with jumps of 42 .ft. 10 inches and 39 ft. lh inch respectively. Rounding out the field events was a win by Bill Lichtman in the javelin with a throw of 164 ft. 1 inch. In the running events, Union got off to a good start with a win in the 4x100 relay. Their win- ning time was 45.4. Though he did not win his race, Chris O'Donnell was very pleased with his perfonnance in the 3000 meter steeple chase. His second place time of 9:15.1 was good enough to break his own .school record and, more importantly, to·qualify for the nationals with four seconds to spare. After just barely missing at Boston College last week, O'Donnell was relieved to be finally over the barrier. Another Union trackater trying to meet a qualifying standard on Friday was Billy McRoberts in the 5000 meter race. For the first half of the race, McRoberts ran with two competitors from Marist but soon left them in an attempt to stay on qualifying pace. Run- ning alone for the last half of the race, McRoberts crossed the line in an official time of 15:23.1-one tenth if a second over the qualifying standard of 15:23. Other winners on Friday were Andy Hodgkin in the 400 meter run with a time of 53.0 seconds closely followed by Steve Black in 53.4. Dan Vaughn won the 400 meter hurdles as the sole competitor with a time of 64.8 seconds. Also this past weekend, Coach Ebbets took some of his athletes to the Penn Relays. In the 4x100, Winston Britton, Todd Allen, Cecil Bright, and George Capozzi placed seventh in their heat of nine with a time of 44.5. In that same heat, Arkansas set a meet record with a time of 39.4. 1n the 4x400 relay Winston Britton smoked a 48.3 second first leg followed by Jon Walter's 51.7, Jeff Barker's 51.6 and Rob Mohlar's 51.4 for a time of3.:23. Midway into the meet Union was in second· place behind Lafayette College who had two wins. The facultyrace proved to be Union's turning point as the experienced team of Shamir Pascha and Earl Stokes ran a perfect race taking first easily. In the tough marathon race the two canoes from Union took first and second place with some hard paddling by the two teams of Jim Griggs - Bob Thompson, and Brian Keating - Pat Salvador. Both canoes had little competition as the design of the Union boats proved themselves once again. In the tricky medley race, full of turns and difficult landings, the Union teams again took first and second to complete the Union domination of the meet. By the end of the meet Union had won a total of six awards which have been added to the clubs large collection. Jeff· 0 Doolittle, the president of the club has planned races next weekend at the New Jersey Institute of Technology and the following weekend in Akron, Ohio were the members hope to continue in their winning ways.

p.m.· a.m. p.m. :·oo a.m. p.rh. 5/5. • 5 4 2 (11) Rose 2 Un.ion 9 (20T) RPI6 Union 1 Uni.ono Union 8 ~idmore4 Union2 Union 4 AIC 333 team of Salvador but the in- paddling. by a In the from finals but paddling Nassau loss as the team and a good entangled hat were control of from qUick and Union behind had two proved to as the Shamir ran a easily. race took with the two ~s - Bob Keating- had design proved In the of turns the Union and Union Union awards to the ion. Jeff of the ~ces next Jersey and the Akron, ~rs hope to ways. ........ _.___, __ _ Bulk Rate U.S. Postage :J;»aid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 ------~------------------------------------------------~---------------------------------------------------------------- Welcome Parents! CXIV, No. 21 York May 9, 1985 Gamma Phi Beta Accepts . • • Plans Set for Sorority Nora Kremer and Shari Midoneck were instrumental in br.iriging a fourth sorority to Union. By MAUREEN COLEMAN News Editor The sorority Gamma Phi Beta has accepted an invitation to colonize a chapter at Union, thus forming a fourth sorority. Fall term, the Panhellenic Council created an extension committee, headed by Robin Gross of Delta Delta Delta, to dete.rmine the need for, and interest in, a fourth sorority at Union. Members of the com- mittee included Marlena .. Waldman, president of the Panhellenic Council; Robin Weiner, Delta Gamma; Heidi Kahn, Sigma Delta Tau; Shari Midoneck and Nora Kremer, independents; Professor Margaret Schadler; Joanne Tobi'essen, Director of the Career Development Center, and Assistant Dean of Students, Robert Massa. The corrunittee decided that Union students showed sufficient interest to warrant the invitation of a fourth sorority to Union. Lottery Policy Clarified Three sororities visited the Colleg~ during ~he winter term to make presentationS to the extension committee, con- cerned sorority members, and interested independents. The extension committee voted in favor of Gamma Phi Beta Sorority. After receiving ap- proval from Dean of Students Joseph Mammola and Union President John Morris, the extension committee invited Gamma Phi Beta to colonize on campus. The sorority accepted this invitation last week. By LINDA RAFFAELE Editor-in-Chief There have been quite a few questions surrounding this year's housing lottery. First of all, .. concerning next year's incoming freshman class, there were some rumors circulating. around campus that the class was going to be larger than normal and that this was going to pose a problem for student housing. The truth of the matter is that the Admissions Office had originally expected a larger number of matriculating students than in past years, but based on the nmnber of af- firmative responses the office has received so far,. it seems that next year's freshman class will be about average size. Says Residence Life Director, Dave Wood, .\This had caused a great deal of concern., There was talk of turning Hickock House into a co-ed dorm, but now it seems that this change will not be necessary. Residence Life's decisions concerning the residence halls dependmainly upon the number of students who want to live -on campus in a particular year. Wood has been keeping statistics of the number of students who move off campus for the past few years, and it seems that this number has been declining .steadily. He reports that four years ago aboyt twenty-five percent of sopnomore women wanted to move ;off campus, but that number ha~ declined to only five to ten percent. Wood says that the College has always t:l.'ied to insure that all women on campus are guaranteed housing for all four years, but with more women staying on campus, this gets more difficult each year. \Twenty people could make a big difference,\ he notes. The biggest change in this year's housing lottery concerns the lottery for suites. In the past, two or three students could reserve a suite and have Residence Life fill in the open spots later. Last year, however, at least eight groups of three people opened up a suite this way. It was decided that this system was unfair because those eight extra spots left over could have made up two whole suites. In this year's lottery, in order to be able to obtain. a suite, all four people who are going to be in the suite lliUSt be present. . . As for the sophomore men who did not get campus housing last year, they will be granted housing on campus if it is available. Students in this situation should see Dave Wood. Union's present lottery system for allocating housing has been in use for the past ten years. Wood feels that it is time to review this system because \any system should be reviewed after ten years.\ To · this end, he is in the process of organizing a Committee to Review Campus Housing. The committee will consist of students, faculty, and members of the Administration. In conclusion, Wood says, \There just is not enough housing for all students to live on campus. The lottery system makes the housing process as fair as possible.\ Don't forget these important lottery dates: Thursday, May 9- pick up lottery numbers; Monday, May 20- Co-op Lottery, Singles Lottery, and Senior Lottery (doubles and suites); Thursday, May 23- Junior Lottery (doubles and suites) ; Tuesday, May 28- Sophomore Lottery (doubles and suites) All lot- teries will be held at Stage II in Carnegie. You will need your ID and lottery card in order to' secure a room. Kremer explained that the sorority will probably send an extension director to Union next Merton Sealts, Thomas Lamont Visiting Professor of Ancient and Modern Literature leads a discussion on Herman Melville's \Bartleby the Scrivener.\ Sealts will be here through May 17 speaking in various classes. SJJeciaiJ>arents' Weekend Section Inside January, but does not know of any definite plans for rush or colonization at this point. Midoneck expects that Gamma Phi Beta's _ epresentatives will begin by introducing their sorority to Union through an extensive advertising campaign for two weeks prior to an in- formational meeting. Informal parties would later allow in- terested students to become acquainted with the national representatives. • Kremer is pleased with the sorority the extension com- mittee selected and noted that its \strong nationals\ is a major asset. Founded in 1874 at Syracuse University, Gamma Phi Beta was one of the original seven members of the national Panhellenic Council and boasts more than one hundred fifty chapters at colleges and universities in the United States and Canada. While Midoneck pointed out that the nationals will not colonize without suf- ficient student interest -(she thinks Gamma Phi Beta would like around forty women to join next year), she remains op- timistic about the sorority's potential. As independents, Midoneck and Kremer both expressed disappointment that after working so long to bring a fourth sorority on campus, they will graduate before they can become members. Kremer added that \we're happy that the administration recognizes that there is a need for the sorority system to be expanded, and we're happy that the Panhellenic Council is willing to work with the new sorority.\ Midoneck agreed, saying, \I'm really glad the opportunity is L. there for the students to work ~ with the administration and c really get things done. I think 0 this is a real plus for Union.\ :=! > ro Gross believes that the for- ';_ mation of a fourth sorority \has .o worked out very, very well.\ 0 15 Noting a possible lack of £. campus enthusiasm indicated by limited attendance at the three sororities' presentations, she expects interest to increase now that plans are more definite. Gross added, \A lot of work has gone into this and we hope interested independents will put as much in now.\ Midoneck explained, \Even the fact that the sorority has no housing yet makes it different by allowing independent relations ... I think it's going to be strong.\

,I i Page2 L.. (1) .0 ;:) .... 0 ·-o > Ill 0 >- .0 0 0 .c: a. II I ! Professor Menghong Yi visits Union and lectures to the Economics Club. Anti-Hazing Statement Issued . . . TDChi Considers Editors Note: This statement is the first in a series of anti- hazing projects undertaken by the Theta Delta Chi fraternity at Union. Along with a video presentation on hazing and legal perspectives provided by attorney Charles Carletta, this statement will be reviewed at the May f5 workshop on hazing in SS012 at 8:00 p.m. The workshop for fraternity and sorority officers and new initiates is co-sponsored by Theta Delta Chi and the In- terfraternity Council ( IFC). It has recently come to light here at Union College in Schenectady and around the nation, that a fundamental reforniation in Greek society initiation processes must take . place. Immediate steps to commence these changes are a priority if the impending revitalization of the Greek system is to remain unham- pered by opponents. These opponents See the liability of fraternity and sorority ex- periences as outweighing the overwhelming multitude of unique benefits which many of us have been fortunate to have realized. Before dismissing these words as the mumbling of an insignificant ·minority, it would be appropriate to take a look at the legitimacy of a few questions: - Are controversial hazing rituals truly essential to the attainment of the goals of pledge training or are they simply a rationalization of an opportunity . to command authority and respect? - Are there no effective· alternatives for the activities which instill pledge unity, respect, and an understanding of fraternal bonds? - Are the future of the organization, the appreciation of group's accomplishments and membership; the pride c:>f its alumni, and the integrity of the Greek community as whole worth compromising? - Would the consequences of these potential losses rather be suffered, or would the source of their risk rather be eliminated? - Are the hazing practices in question genuinely central to the traditions of the fraternity or sorority? (Try explaining how hazing fits into the fraternal tradition to alumni of decades long past.) The skepticism which inevitably accompanies the suggestion of change must be conquered if the Greek system is to survive the outcry of many critics. Some suggestions for alternative pledge activities are outlined below: 1. Bowling-teams could be comprised of pledges and ac- CONCORDIENSIS, May 9, 1985 Chinese Professor Speaks By CARRIE CERRONE Staff The Union College Economics Club hosted Senior Professor Menghong Yi, from the Department of Economics of Nankai 'CJniversity in the People's Republic of China, on Thursday May 2, 1985. Professor Yi is visiting the United States for six weeks as part of an academic exchange between Nankai University and the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. This lecture pro- vided a unique opportunity for Union students to learn about life in a communist nation. The guest lecturer, who spoke about his own personal beliefs Options tives. 2. Attend a semi-pro or pro ball game~basketball or baseball. 3. Sponsor an obstacle race or some other athletic ·event (that doesn't involve alcohol) during Greek Week or Spring Weekend. 4. Greek \Family Feud'' (Fraternity Feud)-Have all fraternities and sororities in- volved (each fraternity sponsor a team). Questions involve fraternity life. A team gets to answer the question by throwing a shoe at a keg (as opposed to pushing a buzzer). It helps to have an amusing MC. Use the format of \game shows\ to educate pledges. At each pledge meeting one .g,roup makes a presentation on the .facts of the fraternity. This takes the pressure off of lear- ning but the goal is still achieved. 5. Fund-raiser for \CHUCK\ (Committee to Halt Useless College Killings, a national anti- hazing organization.) -Educate Greeks on this organization. 6. Theme parties with only pledges and actives.-Use your imagination. -No pressure to drink--provide attractive alternatives. 7. Pledges and Actives go out to dinner somewhere fun.-On a Continued on page 15 and not as representative of his government, lectured in English. Professor Yi discussed the recent adjustments in the Chinese socialist economy. He considered Marx and Engels as forerunners of the socialist\ systeiJl who predicted that with the establishment of public ownership of the means of production, exploitation commodities, and currency would vanish. Lenin announced that he would regulate com- merce and the circulation of currency through a market in his society. Th:e :•state-run\ economy is the major force in China today. It is believed, however, that China's transformation to public ownership was \too fast\ and overrated. Since the Chinese never underwent a \capitalistic\ stage, China remained rather backward. Professor Yi suggested that these \capitalistic forms\ will be increased in the Chinese economy until the \deficien- cies\ in the socialist part of the economy have been com- pensated for and the national development has been in- creased. Secondly, he commented that the egalitarian principle, known as \everybody eating from the same big public pot,'' which discouraged initiative, is now being reformed using the system of ''floating wages'' which rewards workers on th~ basis of productivity by groups. Professor Yi also added that there is little conflict between employers and employees. Thirdly, the professor ex- plained that China is governed by a planned economy which establishes quotas for production units. Following the Third Plenary Session · of' the Eleventh Party Central CollliPittee in 1978, reforms were made to relate com- pensation and output of production. The Third Plenary Session of the Twelfth Party Central Committee (Oct. 1984) decided to ''reform\ the economy. This reform included plans to ''relax\ the state plan en- forcememt and to develop a plan modeled after the law of value. The law of value according to the Chinese system includes only the cost of production. To compete, producers must therefore develop new methods to save time and materials. The goal of $1,000 national per1capita income is ·set for the year 2000. (The U.S. GNP is ap~ proximately forty times that of China, and sixty· percent of China's labor force grows food for the nation, explained Professor Reynolpg before the lecture.) Professor Yi also entertained an extremely informative question and answer session. When asked how daily life in China is different today, Yi emphasized that now workers' incomes are partly paid on a regular basis and- partly on a \productive'' basis (variable). Professor Yi, when asked to comment on the United States' economic system said that he felt our commodity system was good since it \stimulated\ the effoiis of individual workers and speeded up economic progress. He explained that the major deficiency of the American system is that it tends to create an uneven distribution of inc_pme. Professor Yi feels that China must \concede to· aapitalistic elements\ in order to speed up the construction of a strong prOductive economy before a totally communist system can work. Information Meeting for the 1986 Term i·n Washington, D.C. Monday, May 13 • 7:00 p.m. Social Sciences 112 /til interested students should aHend CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS Barrett -Recognized- David Barrett, a senior chemistry major at Union, has been named a Fulbright scholar. He will study organic ~hemistry in Braunschweig, Germany, for one year beginning in September. Barrett is the son of Gerald and Marjorie Barrett of RD 1, Willseyville, New York, and is a 1981 graduate of Candor Central School, Candor, New York. Barrett is among ninety students from throughout the country who were selected to study in Braunschweig. Selection factors include academic performance, commitment to the area of study, maturity, and knowledge of the language. Barrett has a background in the German language and previously studied in Europe through a Union College term abllOad in Vienna, Austria in the spring of 1984. Union Poets , - Appear - On Thursday, May 16, 1985, two of Union's own distinguished poets will appear together for the first time in Schenectady. Professor Jordan Smith from Burnt Hills, New York, and Professor William Hathaway from Saratoga, New York, will give a poetry reading at 8:00p.m. in the Humanities Lounge. The poetry reading is made possible by the English Department and the Idol, Union's literary magazine. This lecture is free and open to the public. __ Kumalo __ Lectures South African journalist Dumisani S. Kumalo will discuss \Divestment: The Role of U.S. Corporations in South Africa\ during a talk ·at Union Wednesday, May 15 at 11:30 a.m. in Social Science Building, Room 117. The talk, rescheduled from May 1, is free and open to the public. It begins a film and lecture series at the College dealing with the political crisis in southern Africa. Kumalo is the founder of the Union of Black Jouralists, an organization active in the Black Consciousness Movement which was banned by the South African government in 1977. He has worked in South Africa since 1965 for the Post Newspapers, Drum Magazine, The World, and as chief reporter for the Johannesburg Sunday Times Extra (Black edition). He exposed conditions of black migrant workers in the mines; use of child labor on fanns; and abuses of police power and deaths in detention. Following police harrassment, he fled South Africa in June 1977. The series at Union is spon- sored by The Minerva Com- mittee, Phi Beta Kappa, Campus Ministeries, and the departments of history, ecol!gmics and sociology. Future speakers include Congressmen Ronald Dellums, a Democrat from California, and Gerald Solomon, Republican from New York, as well as representatives of the African National Congress and of the U.S. State Department. - _ Benson Opposes Cuts On Monday, May 13, 1985, Student Forum President and Independent Student Coalition (ISC) Chairman, Steve Benson, along with student leaders from throughout the country will meet in New York City to ad- dress a congressional sub- committee on the Reagan ad- ministration's proposed cuts in financial aid to college students. Union representatives of the ISC will meet with other ISC representatives on Saturday and Sunday to formulate a resolution on the subject. Benson commented, \I hope they hear us in Washington ... they had better hear us in Washington.\ Dinitz Will Talk Simcha Dinitz, former Israeli ambassador to the United States, will deliver an Anwar Sadat Memorial Peace Lecture at Union, Sunday, May 12, 1985 at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The lecture is free and open to the public. A reception for the speaker will follow at 9:30p.m. in Milano Lounge, Hale House. Dinitz concluded six years of service as Israeli Ambassador to the United States at the end of 1978. He was elected vice president of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1979, and a member of the Israel Knesset in 1984, where he is a member of the Foreign Affairs and Security Committee. He holds B.S. and M.S. degrees from Georgetown University, Washington, DC, and has received a number of- awards from various institutions in Israel and the United States. He has published many articles in the area of international relations and international law, and hosts a cable television show \Viewpoints with Simcha Dinitz.\ Other former positions in- clude serving as the head of the Office of the Director-General of the Foreign Ministry ·in Jerusalem; political advisor to Golda Meir; a member of the Israeli Delegation to the United Nations; minister of the Israeli Embassy in Rome, Italy; and minister of information in the Israeli Embassy in Washington .. Do you want to have your name in print? -WRITE FOR NEWS Call Jan at 382-9597 or Maureen at 6860

efonns com- ut of Party 1984) the to en- a plan value. to ion. To must The 2000 .. s ap~ that of of food the life in Yi a a sked to States' he was the the the that it uneven China peed up strong a em can he is a Affairs He degrees has ions in He in law, ~lev-ision Simcha in- of the ·in to of the United- Israeli and in the hington .. ~ws ·;\' CONCORD!ENS/S, May 9, 1985 Golden-Awarded Watson ByJANBARAN News Editor Two weeks ago, Liesel Golden, a senior civil engineering major from Clifton Park, New York, was awarded the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship. She won the fellowship by submitting a propOsal to study women as catalysts of change, par- ticularly in the European militaries. Two of the countries listed on her proposal were Israel and Norway. proximately ten pages in length. One Union student, Liesel Golden, survived this stage and was awarded the coveted Thomas J. Watson Fellowship. Golden emphasizes, however, that the application process is easier than it appears. As she stated, \People shouldn't get scared away by the proposals. It's really good to start the proposal early because the application deadline comes up sooner than you think.\ usually turn in a lengthy report to- the Watson Foundation summarizing the events and findings of the last year. Any Union students wishing to apply for the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship should be reminded that it is important to start thinking about proposals over the summer because ap- plications are due near the end of September. AU Union students are encouraged to apply and to watch for details on the Watson fellowship in issues of Concordiensis. Fur- ther information is also available from Professor Klein in SS 123, ext 6056. Congratulations Liesel ! Page3 Liesel Golden, a senior at Union, won $10,000 from the Watson Foundation to study in Europe. c 10 E ~ Ill QJ ;:,(. ~ >- .0 0 +- 0 .c a. Past proposals have included a chance to study technology in China and the cheese produc- tion of goats in Europe. Golden notes that the most important assets of an application, other than good grades and activitie's, is -genuine· interest in the research area selected. The Watson committee also does not consider whether a student has previously been abroad. Again, the important criterion is genuine . interest, shown by previous activity in the r·esearch topic and a Sincere -Willingness to spend ·.a year researching abraad. · Guardian Angels Alight . '0 • The prestigious fellowship gives $10,000 each to seventy college seniors nationwide to spend the year conducting in- dividualized research abroad. Students are selected on the basis of proposals and in- terviews on research topics. First, applicants submit a five- to-six page proposal outlining what they want to research and in which countries they want to study. Before writing the proposal, students will usually have done some substantial research in the topic area. Golden is currently Wing Commander fn the ROTC program with the responsibility of leading two hundred eighty- eight cadets. In June, she will be commissioned as second lieutenant in the Air Force. After the Watson fellowship is completed, Golden plans to pursue a masters degree and a Ph.D. Civilian Patrol In vi ted Thirty-six students from Union submitted initial proposals. Of these students, eight were selected for in- terviews. Four Union students survived the first-interview stage and were requested for second interviews. In addition, these students had to su15mit longer, more detailed versions of their proposals, ap- Studying abroad under a Watson fellowship does not mean attending a foreign university or reporting weekly, however. Students who want to study at a university abroad should not apply for this scholarship. Instead, the Watson Foundation grants the $10,000 to students sa that they may have the funds to pursue individualized research. The only requirements, once the proposal has been approved, is to report at the half-year mark and at the end of the fellowship. Most fellowship students By LISA FOLEY Staff Curtis Sliwa, the 31-year-old founder and leader of the Guardian Angels spoke with the Schenectady County Criminal Justice Advisory Council on April 5, 1985, to discuss the possibility o.f organizing a Schenectady chapter. Sliwa, although he recei-ved a cool reception in Albany, was welcomed in Schenectady. He said that a Schenectady chapter of his civilian crime fighting group should be in operation by . May 15, 1985. The council which invited Sliwa to discuss the possibility of a Schenectady group consists of the county sheriff, the district attorney, the director of probation, the city police chief, Students Oppose Aid Cuts -BY MAUREEN COLEMAN News Editor On Monday, May 13 and 14, a group ·Of students will hold a letter-writing campaign in opposition- to the Reagan ad- ministration's proposed cuts in financial aid to post-secondary school students. Organized by Ad~ Rosman, the Student Forum's represen.tative to the Independent Student. Coalition (ISC), and concerned students J:: +- 1... ro a.l J:: ro 1... ro V) including David Katz '87, Cheryl Nowitz '87, Nancy Grundman '87, Brad Oren, Stephanie Gass '87, Dave Hanafin '86, Doug Hirsch '87 ana Jim Solomon '87, the campaign will send a petition to the White House as well as student letters to both senators and congressrpen. In conjunction with the state- wide organization ofthe ISC and with help from Union's Financial Aid Office, the student organizers will promote Adam Rosman, a sophomore at Union, has organized a letter· writing campaign to oppose Reagan's financial aid cuts. student initiative on campus with letter-writing tables . in front of Carnegie Hall all day Monday and Tuesday while ISC Chairman Steve Benson ad- dresses a congressional sub- committee on the issue in New York City. Rosman explained, ''For the administration in Washington to recognize the seriousness of this issue, the students must first recognize how much it's going to affect them . . . it could even raise tuition again.\ The Financial Aid Office predicts that the proposed cuts in aid would eliminate $800,000 total aid to Union. Because the proposed aid allowance per student is a maximum of $8,000 (including loans and parents' contributions), and Union costs $13,900, the College would have to pay the remaining $5,900 for any students who could not afford to pay independently. As a result, Union would be forced to accept students on the basis of financial qualification. Theoretically, if the proposed cuts are passed, over five hundred students would be affected, and three hundred and fifty would not be able to attend Union at all. . Rosman stressed the need for student involvement, saying, \The more students that turn out and write, the greater our impact will be.'' Housing Lottery Tickets Available TODAY, M-ay9 SENIORS: Residence Life Office, 6:30·8:00 p.m. JUNIORS: Fox Lounge., 6:30·-8:00 p.m. SOPHOMORES: Davidson Lounge, 6:30·8:00 p.m. To pick up lottery numbers students MUST bring Union I.D. two country representatives and one city councilman. The council advises the county Board of Representatives on issues concerning criminal justice. Jack Lipton, \Lipton • . . believes that Guardian Angels will form a group in Schenectady and-perhaps at Union.\ psychology professor at Union and Chairman of the Schenectady County Criminal Justice Advisory Council, said that he believes that Guardian Angels will form a group in Schenectady and perhaps at Union whether or not they are welcome. The Schenectady Guardian Angel patrol will concentrate on Hamilton Hill, a high crime are in the city. Lipton said that Union students who graduate from the Guardian Angel's three month training session may form patrols to safeguard the campus. The Guardian Angels , founded in New York City in 1979 to combat subway crime, have expanded to fifty-seven cities across the United States and now consist of ap- proximately five thousand members. The non-profit organization is registered as The Alliance of Guardian Angels, Inc. Expectinb forty to fifty ap- plications from Schenectady residents, the Guardian Angels intend to graduate ap- proximately fifteen members These members are expected to work eight hours a week in four- hour shifts, mostly occurring on weekends and at night. The Guardian Angels undergo three months of training in martial arts and the law, focusing on the law as it applies to citizen arrests. Sliwa said that in the Continued on page 15 Washington Term ... futem in D.C. Every spring term since 1977, Union's political science department has offered a term in Washington, D.C. Students must apply for this program in the spring of the preceeding year. This year, the application date has been moved up to May 15, 1985, so that students will k.now of their acceptance into the program before spring term ends. Of those who apply, twenty students are chosen to serve as interns in the nation's capitol, usually in congressional offices and government agencies. Sophomores, juniors and seniors are eligible to ap- ply, although the majority of participants tends to be junior. The · selection is based on academic performance, par- ticularly in political science courses, writing ability, ex- pectations of and interest in the program, involvement in relevant extracurricular ac· tivities, and faculty recom- mendations. One need not be a political science major to participate in the program. Students, however, are en- couraged to take \Con- temporary American Politics\ and \Congressional Politics\ prior to the Washington term. On the Washington term, students will receive three academic credits. The first credit is for the actual in- ternship, in which a weekly journar is kept to record what the intern did each week. The second credit is for the twenty- page research paper written on a public policy in conjunction with the internship. The final credit is for a course which all Washington students must take. This course is not related to political science but rather takes advantage of the Washington area. Another feature of the program is a schedule of weekly seminars in which people in- volved in all different areas in Washington informally speak with the students. In the past, the program has included speakers from such places as the Department of State, the Central Intelligence Agency, the federal judiciary, Congressional staffs and campaign organizations. The main emphasis on the term to Washington, D.C., however, is the actual in- ternship. Since most internships are with Members of Congress, students obtain the opportunity to get inside Capitol Hill. Students become very familiar with constituency service, researching bill topics, and answering phones. Students also become very familiar with the legislative process. Interns work in their offices four full days a week for the entire ten- week term. This Washington term can orient students toward careers in Washington, D.C. and give them valuable contacts for obtaining future jobs there, Several students in the past have been able to obtain surruner jobs on the Hill in· terning for the Member of Congress they worked for, or for a member met by working as an intern. ........ Reminder: Applications are due for this program by May 15, 1985, in the political science office. The applications are available there from Mrs. Kozel.

Page4 CONCORDIENSJS, May 9, 1985 zor·s UaMaOaCa Ballots available al Wesland Carnegte I st p . . $1 00 Gtfl CetllltcaLe to rl ze · Slar Ltquorll II 2 nd .. Prtze: Two Kegs ol Lowenbrau 3 rd p . · raze: Dinner lor Two Proceeds will go to the Nallonal Leutemta Foundallqn PARTY ~s com~ng~~.·~ •daission is $1 at tbe <IQOr witb 12 bottles or chaapqzu: as door prizes. Ballots Will be 10e per v.ote or 1::> TOtes for $1. Voting willtalte place M-r 10:10-1 at Ce,roegie. and ::>:00-7:00 at Vest CollciJ:e. Sat. and SW!l. 5o-7 at 9eS1. May 17,1985 at 10:00 PM ALL SENIORS: Come to the Senior luau Sunday, May 12 • 3-7 p.m. Gear up for your summer activities with quality backpacks, luggage, camera bags and handbags by Tough Traveler. ~!N!~~ b~!~!~~~o~~~!~! · beginning at 2:30 p .. m. ''Let's all get together one more time before Senior Fling\ TOUGH TRAVELER 1012 State Stret Schenectady, NY Tickets are $4/person--they will be on sale unti I Friday in front of Carnegie ll: 30-1:30 & in Mrs. Marra's office until Friday 5 p.m. Tickets will cost more on Sunday {518) 393-0168 Includes: Miller • Food • Games Non-Alcoholic Drinks SIGMA CHI CLAMBAKE May 18th Tickets available at Carnegie Hall & West Dining Hall Bus transportation will be provided Leaving from, Carnegie Hall every 15 minutes Proceeds donated to Wallace Village Sponsored by Miller High Life A Ell The First Annual Spring Bash at the RAMADA INN May 10 at 10 p.m.-? D.J. Jay Dubson All Proceeds go to Charity 25q Michelobs & Molsons $1 .00 Drink Specials Parents Welcome Admission: $2.00 Tickets Available at the door The newly Initiated brothers are Mike Aronoff Dave Tewksbury Ira Suckman Matt Halperin Brad Flansbaum Steve Rosenblatt Dan Ravitz Adam Emerson Ira Heffan Evan Collins Jason Oshins Adam Helfand Billy Cooper Howie Podolsky Adam Fax Larry Schachter Dave Schulman Steve Moss UNION COLL.EGE SOCIAL ACTION AWARENESS WE E.K I AN ASSERTION OF HUMAN LIBERTIES' May.13-17 Sponsored by: Amnesty International; BLAS, Campus Ministry, Pro-Life Forum, Student Environmental Alliance, United Campuses to Prevent Nuclear War, U.S. Out of Central America, Women's Network. SCHEDULE OF EVENTS MONDAY: •lO: 00-2: 00·-Social Awareness Information Expo. • 12: 15--Campus Ministry .presents: Louis Garcia, member Talca Chapter of the Commission on Human Rights speaks on Human Rights in Chile. Banquet Room. • B:OO··United Campuses to Prevent· Nuclear War presents: \Threads \The controversial British equivalent to \The bay After.\ Dutch Hollow Pub. TUESDAY • 8:00-·Amnesty International Film, 4th floor lounge. WEDNESDAY • Sunrise--Student Environmental .Alliance Sunrise Break· fast. Jackson's Gardens. •11:30·-South Africa Film and Lecture Series: Dumisani s. · Kumalo speaks on \Divestment·· The role of u.s. cor- porations in South Africa.\ Rm. SS117. • 4:30·-SEA Club Presents: Panel discussion on alternate energy sources. Cabaret Room. • 8:00··UCAM Presents: Star Wars presentation. A videotaped .• :.;cture on space defense technology. Dutch Hollow Pub. THURSDAY 7:00--Women's Network Presents: \Abortion: Political, Medicai and Ethical Aspects', (Pro-Choice). 55115. • 8:30--Pro·Life Forum Presents: Abortion panel discussion, SS115. FRIDAY 12:30--South Africa Film and Lecture Series: Movie·· \Namibia: Africa's Last Colony,\ SS117.

E ~ EK I; u.s. speaks \The Break- S. cor- A Dutch CONCORDIENSISJ May 9, 1985 .. HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY Ethics Made Easy By JOY RUNYON Associate Features Editor Ethics {and Other liabilities) by Harry Stein, St. Martin's Press. fwmy. He takes subtle digs at .people who display moral deficiencies. The fact that many of the incidents have occurred .in Stein's experiences brings to home the point that all of us are subject to dilemmas concerning our own ethics. Stein tries to lead us back to the correct path by chiding us gently. PageS FEATURES Remember how your grand- mother or motner used to pump you full of those wise old maxims that seemed so original to you as a child? You remember them: \Waste not, want not,\ \Turn the other cheek,\ and the incessant \Do unto others as you would have others do unto you.\ There were dozens morej. but these are a few that immediately c1>me to mind. Whoever tried to drill those into your head, chances are, said them so .earnestly and frequently that you soon decided the boredom of them made them unworthy of your attention anymore. If only they had tried a different approach . Ethics gives us so many things to think about. The book itself is a compilation of columns which Stein wrote for Esquire magazine during his stay there. Stein, apparently, is a very brave man, almost audacious, to appoint himself the keeper of morality. But he doesn't come across in that manner. His topics range from shoplifting to ·gossip to per- severence. The most praiseworthy seCtion of Ethics was one entitled \On Not Turning the Other Cheek.\ Stein. shows us his best stuff here. While many are satisfied with an apathetic forgetting of unjustifiable acts, there. is a better attitude which can be Students plaY, volleyball at the West Beach Party. West Rocks Union's Campus An approach like that taken by Harry Stein, perhaps. Stein's writing on ethics and morals is fresh and innovative. His theory seems to be, If people are not preached at, they will listen. And· it's true; no one cares. a whit about some staunch moralist's sermonizing. Stein found the best way of reaching people's moral selves: humor. His point is not to reform his readers, it is to give them ideas to mull over in the privacy of their thoughts. Humor has another advantage over ser- monizin: people love humor, and humor g~ts their attention. But are ethics funny? The subject of ethics brings to mind a search for truth, justice and the American way a la Superman. Stein niakes them _taken. Stein doesn't propose_ that we carry grudges; what he proposes is more powerful (and more mature) than that. He suggests that we shed our in- difference and become con- cerned, participating citizens. \Especially today,\ says Stein, \we have retreated from even the hint of stridency, opting instead,. by quiet consensus, for the middle ground . . . The danger in all of this is manifest. If people are incapable of cherishing the notion that there are some lines that cannot be crossed, some acts that cannot Continued on page 6 By MARGARET BOITANO Associate Featurer Editor What do you think of when you contemplate Spring Term at Union? Spring Term: a chance to catch up on that severely neglected suntan. Spring Term: time to let loose and party. Spring Term: outdoor sports, clambakes, and Camp Union. Putting aside the unusually difficult course load made even worse by these enticing events, Spring Term encompasses all these attractions and more for all Union students. Last Saturday was the scene of one of the many memorable events of Spring Term: the infamous West Beach Party. The origin of this big bash materialized, ahnost by ac- cident, about four years ago Center Serves Community By ADAM EMERSON Staff Do you feel guilty going to classes because you leave your rommate home all alone? Well, now wake up for your 8:30 class with a smile! You can drop off your roomie at the Union College Day C\are eenter. Actually the Day Care Center was f01mulated eleven years ago by faculty members·looking for a convienent day setting for their children. Union College loaned money to this project so Libra_ry Makes Arrangements for Summer Renovations Schaffer Library will be in- stalling compact shelving in one half of the basement dur·ing th~ Summer of 1985. Students taking summer coursework are advised that periodical titles beginning with A-Lit will be unavailable from June 17th through September 9th. Microforms, ie. microfilm and fiche will be inaccessible. The remaining periodical titles, Lit- Z, and the government documents collection will be available for public use. Access to the basement will be by elevator only~ elevator keys will be available for check-out at the Circulation Desk. The library will have photocopy machines and microfilm and microfiche readers available for use. The library is undertaking this . project to alleviate crowding in the basement. If you have questions or concerns, please . see Maribeth Krupczak at the library. that the Center could get on its feet. Now 856 Nott Street (located near the field house) has become the hotspot for children from the community as well as from the Union staff. Although the program is successful, it has become more popular with the community than Union itself. Presently, tbe Center is licensed to host nineteen ~nursery school children during the day. Roughly speaking, a bit over fifty percent of the children are from the ,community. Chairman Marc Dawson, is happy with the program and is especially prroud of his son whO will be graduating nursery school at the end of the term. As for the mechanics of the center, Dawson refers to it as a ''Parent Cooperative\. Along with an experienced four teacher staff, parents of the nineteen children take turns with cooking lunches, shopping, and serving on the Board of Directors. · Furthermore, on Parents Weekend (as if Parents Weekend' wasn't fun enough), you can meet some of the parents of the Day Care Center. Just come on over to Chester Arthur between noon and 1:30 where hOtdogs will be sold to benefit the Day Care Center. I know I'll be there; so should you. Remember: full-time faculty and students get first preference at the Day Care Center. If you want a warm nursery school atmosphere with an experienced staff, be sure to take a look. . 'ltnion QL:ollrge jfacultp (.olloquium DOUGLAS WONG Assistant Professor of Computer Science LANGUAGE COM PREHENSION IN A PROBLEM SOLVER. Thursday, May 16 at 8:00p.m • 88016 Coffee & Tea at 7:30p.m. ALL ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND when West College ( af- fectionately known as the ''Zoo Crew'') made a spontaneous decision to give a ''real\ party. Once appropriate funds were raised and a full-scale ad- vertising campaign was launched, the Crew hired a rock band, bought adequate supplies, and contracted the appearance of a thirty keg beer truck-an essential component of any \real~' party. As the music started, students from all over campus promptly arrived and stretched out, relaxing en masse on West Beach. The Party; an entire afternoon affair, has now become a traditional event of Spring Term right alongside of Fitzhugh Ludlow Day and Camp Union. This years' party was sponsored by Budweiser' and' featured the unforgettable rock band Diversion Factor. For the more athletically inclined, a volleyball net was set up, numerous frisbees were available, and groups of Financial Aid: students gathered around to participate in the new trend in sports: Hackey Sack. As the Party began to roll, Court Gestures, a talented comedy- improvisation groUp made a striking appearance while laughter resounded from the audience. At last 4:30 p.m. arrived and the Party officially ended. Some students remained stretched vJt on the Beach, whether this was a reflection of utter exhaustion from the days events sponsored by Budweiser or of down-right laziness can only be left to speculation. The mst important fact to consider is that it was a very successful party that will be looked for- ward to next year. West Beach Party is just the beginning of ~ series of events to follow. My advice: bring a book, relax for the day, and enjoy yourself at these parties while tbe opportunity is available. Remember: Spring Term only comes once a year- enjoy! F t ??? u ure ... Financial Aid Office On February 4, President Heagan sent his FY'86 budget proposal to Congress. That proposal contained measures that would drastically reduce federal student aid programs and would have a serious im- pact on Union College students. However, before any such proposals go into effect, several comroittees in both houses of Congress must act on them, and the full House and Senate must pass budget resolution and appropriation measures. It is extremely important for you to know that, to date, THERE HAVE BEEN NO CHANGES in the eligibility requirements for federal aid programs; aid is still available. Students who need help are encouraged to apply for state . and federal aid as well as Union aid. Do not be misled or discouraged by the PROPOSED reductions. This is not to imply that all is well. A battle for shrinking dollars lies ahead. A single proposal-eliminating the GSL program for all families ear- ning above $60,000-year (regardless of the number of children in college )-would cause 135 Union students to lose assistance they are currently receiving, representing ap- proximately $300,000 worth of loans. What can you do? Write or call your Congressional representatives now! Let them know how vital these programs are to the future of America, to the futures of you and your children. Your letter can have an impact! The Financial Aid Office, Becker Hall, 2nd floor, will be open 9-12 Saturday, May 11. Stop in to say hello and we'll be glad to answer your questions. Short Stories? Poems? Creative Writing? Send them to Features!

': ' ... ., I Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, May 9, 1985 ·FEATURESft ~ Sf eiN IB5 \\\ IC.Qcr::. '\1' M- • Niwt \ Food for Thought ... THe FoReca~T: NUCLeaR WiNTeR. By TAYLOR Contributor Parents' Weekend is almost here. Where can one take their parents. to eat? Is there any place at all? La Patisserie II Cafe on State Street is a nice place for those who do not wish to stray far from the campus. This restaurant has a relaxed at- mosphere, fine food, ·and good service. One's first impression upon entering this establishment may not be overwhelming: The decor is rather plain. It consists of the bare necessities only: tables and chairs, with a few \frivoloustt decorations such as plants, posters, and Perrier bottles used as flower vases. The food compensates for La Patisserie Il's lack of at- mosphere. The appetizers (ranging from $1 to $3) are excellent. The soup is . to be relished. Salads (rangiilg from 12to 14) are crispand fresh, and creatively prepared. The en- trees ( raning from $5 to $10:) are fresh and cooked to order. To complement such a fine meal is a sufficient· wine list, nothing too extravagant, and superb bread. The pum- pernickle and raisin bread are wonderful. The desserts were goOd as well, yet not as fresh as the bread. La Pattisserie IT is recom- B.ig Brothers \Ethics\ Reviewed . B • s·. 19 ·•sters Continued from page 5 be excused, they will not retain a sense of purpose.\ He ob- serves, unfortunately rather accurately, that, \when it comes to moral lapses in keepers of the public trust, we tend to forgive and forget . . . with a frequency that suggests senility.\ The sickening realization is that, Yes, this is true. The apathy of the people certainly does nothing to show thee powers that be that their ethics must improve before we can trust them. Although some of Stein's humor fails to accomplish its purpose-to make one laugh- Ethics does have some very funny moments. One that caused this writer to laugh aloud came in the section \Oh Grow Up!\ After seeing a candid James Stewart reveal his hearing aid-his proof of old age-on \The Johnny Carson Show,\ Stein quips, \The sight of an elderly person addressing himself to the subject of physical deterioration and being witty about it to boo~ is about as surprising as it would be to catch Michael Landon abusing a puppy.\ However, this is an exceptional example of Stein's humor. The majority of it falls between a titter and a chuckle. Stein's writing ability is barely above average. Some of his sentence structure is so awkward that one is forced to reread many of his sentences in order to grasp the meaning. His main problem is that he tries to fit too many things into one sentence and winds up clut- tering an otherwise clear meaning. This is unfortunate, becausesomeofhisideasreally deserve more than they're Senior Luau May 12 Be There! Aloha! getting. His style cheats him out of very good, worthwhile concepts. Too bad he couldn't get William Safire to tutor him. If it weren't for his incredible ideas, it is improbable that Stein would have gotten his position at Esquire (much less a book published). Despite the awkward writing, Stein sets forth some very good ideas in Ethics. He'll never be famous for his style, but the worthiness of Ethics comes from his reflections on universal moral foibles. A masterpiece, Ethics is not. What it is, though, is a thoughtful examination of ethics that presents digestable theories on why people act as they do and why they don't act as they should. 1st Annual Appreciation Dinner The Board of Directors of Big Brothers-Big Sisters of Schenectady County request that our Big Brothers and Big, Sisters help to celebrate 15 years of service by attending ·the: 1st Annual Appr.eclation Dinner, 6:00 - 9:00 p.m., Tuesday, May 28, 1985, Miranda's Banquet Room, 49 Mohawk Avenue, Scotia. A ziti- meatball dinner, an awards presentation, entertainment, and magic show are planned. Oonation of $5 per person is requested. We look forward to seeing you at our 1st Annual Appreciation Dinner. Please call our office by Monday, May 20 to make your reservation (374-4523). WANTED: ENTIIUSIASTIC, FUN, AND CREATIVE VOLUNTEERS . R:O.C. (Reach Out Center) is a counseling and recreation program for neighborhood youth ages 7~16. R.O.C. is coordinated by Big Brothers- Big Sisters and is located at Central Park Middle School in Schenectady (near St. Clare's Hospital). We need volunteers, now and for the fall, who are willing to interact with youth on a Wed- nesday and-or Thursday from 6: 3()..9; 30 p.m. If you have a specific talent or skill to share or just enjoy working with kids, please call the Big Brothers-Big Sisters office at 37 4-4523. The Unusual Weekend ByJIMMANLY Contributor and most interesting activities of the year. Uncovering the checkbook you lost in the fall, Weekends in springtime along with discovering a new usually bring hopeful thoughts strain of bacteria on the carpet, .of sun-drenched bliss, yet at are not unheard-of results. Union this upcoming weekend is The second, and most im- different, very different. For portant,. task is the problem of and the school in general. Thus, the student is forced to enter in some of these feared activities on parental insistence. Each child tries to hide their identity while the \orphans\ of the· school usually form a lasting bond with your parents. this is Parents Weekend; a how to entertain the rents when tradition whose two words seem you're not being fed by them. This frivolity finally comes to so contradictory, one can The object here is to seem as an end, and the parents start to hardly imagine them co- \hip\ as possible. The ultimate leave for home. Thi$ is ah9ut existing peacefully. The simple goal is to be able to say, the time everyone realizes that fact that it comes on a weekend \Mother's Day Brunch? What the weekend wasnft as bad as is absurd. Maybe if ot could be do you think we are, the Cun.. imagined. In fact, it was good to scheduled on a Sunday af- ningham family?\ In other see these tuition-paying ternoon things might be a little words, to prove yourself the laid strangers after all. Yet their easier to manage.. Regardless, back, liberal, eighties~family suggestion that they come visit the parents will slowly make person. The first step towards you every weekend seems to their trek here in search of their this goal is the careful lack the same enthusiasm. As lost child. scrutil1ization of the weekend's you wave goodbye until sum- This weekend contains two · schedule. Ruling out anything mer, you take your first deep different people, the \haves\ too closely r,elated to the \Little breath with great enjoyment. and the \have Or in more House. C)Q, The Prarie'J, theme. The clothes on the floor (for the succinct terms, those whose Other activities that· pertain to first time in what seemed an \rents\ are coming, and those anything intellectual are also eternity of unusually good whose aren't. For those ex- quickly avoided. Since students behavior) is a welcome sight. pecting, the preparations are don't go alone duririg the year, Then the student usually sits endless. The goal of these why should they have to sit back and thinks, \What nice remaining students is to line up through one with their parents? people, but if a weekend is this a suitable set of ''foster After this 'strict censorship is tough .how did I ever last 18 parents.\ These parents are finished there is a real dilemma years?\ Yet little do we know usually the ones with the most asto how to occupy the \rents\ after their visit to what they promise ·Of free food and beer. time. This usually results in equate with a rowdy verson of Meanwhile the activities of the \Well you could take me 11 Animal House,\ they are parented student are frantic. shoppipg.\ To which the driving away in joy. \He {or First is the room cleaning, parents usually make some she) is a nice child, but I don't . w~if:!bisbyfaroneofthe largest ph~nyplea.tbaycameto see you,. think we raised him. Did we?\ ~--~----------~~·_.~~~~~~--*H Student Workers Needed for ReUnion ;Weekend students who would like to work durh'lg ReUni·on Weekend (June 14 and 15), please stop by the Alumni Office or call Mary at 6168. Workers will be paid $3.35 per hour. A mandatory meeting of all student wor,kers will be held on Wednesday, May 15 at 4z;30 p.m. in the Banquet Room. ~~~\~-··wa--·~a-~Ha~-~~~--~~~~--~~~~~--~--~~~~.~-~-~-..d mended for lunch. Although they do serve dinner, the lunch is much more worthwhile. There is something on the menu fQr everyone, from salads to sandwiches, hamburgers, and · chicken .. And everything is fresh!! ! The exceptional food ·more than makes up 'for the bland atmosphere. If .you are looking for other restaurants, here is a brief swnmary of restaurants which will be' reviewed more ex,. tensively in weeks to come: Chez Nichol (One Mile Road Schenectady; 382~9784) Reputation: Very good Atmosphere; Elegant Cuisine: French Price: Unavailable Junco's Stone Ends (Glen- mont, Albany; 449-5181) Reputation: Good Atmosphere: Sophisticated, elegant Cuisine: French-American .Price: $20 - $35 per couple Reservation recommended Quintessence (11 New SCotland Ave., Albany; 43-8186). Reputation: Good Atmosphere: Quaint, casual CUisine: American cafe Price: Under $20 per couple Jack's ( 42 State St., Albany; 465-8854) 'reputation: Excellent Atmosphere: Pleasant, sophisticated · Cuisine: Seafood Reservation recoiQJllended Chez Sophie (69 Caroline St., Saratoga Springs; 587-0440) Reputation: Excellent Atmosphere: Elegant Cuisine: Contemporary French. Price: Over $50 :p~rA:~ouple Reservation reqUired· ISC UNION COLLEGE CAMPAIGN TO OPPOSE· PROPOSED SUBSTANTIAL STUDENT LOAN REDUaiONS ' ' Carnegie Ha II Monday, May 13 Tues~ay, May 14 More Information Call Adam x8618 . ALL CAM.PUS -PHOTO Tuesday May 14th at 3:30 On The Wall In Front Of West BE THERl~J.

lunch menu to and· is food r the other brief ~ ex- Road Glen- a ted, New . ple bany; St., h. · ~N . 13 • 14 • ••• ~ .. l.}. • CONCORDIENSIS, May 9, 1985 Page7 ·: I e I e o wa I ADP Porch Party, Fox-Davidson Beach Party, Camp Union, · ~ t .. - ~. ' · Clambake, Beta · G·n, Suitcase Party. How can the Art$ Dept. even ·hope to get your attention this term! We offer no free beer, no live hands, no hats, .. no T-shirts, no nothing • · · . Nothing, . except • • • Summertree by ROn Cowen May 22, 23, 24, 25 I Am A Woman· ~; .by Viveca Lindfors May 28, 30, 31, June 1 NOTT MEMORI~L THEATR·E

PageS <llnnrnrbirnsis FoUTUkd al limon Collegt 1877 --------- -------- To All Parents If you can stand it one more time: WELCOME TO UNION! The Editorial Board of Concordiensis wishes you all the best for a wonderful stay on campus. We believe that Union offers a tremendous amount .of opportunities for personal growth. We happen to think that it is a unique place and we indeed have taken a sincere interest in the campus hap- penings around us. Because of these beliefs, we have chosen to undertake the positions of Concordiensis editors. Beginning in 1795 with the College's founding and continuing for 190 years, we are proud to be a part of Union's history. Concordiensis has been with Union since 1877 and we are enthusiastically carrying out its tradition. So, with over 100 years of Union behind the history of this publication, with all the years of tradition kept in mind, we would like to extend a hearty welcome to aU~ parents. We sincerely hope that you will enjoy your visit and learn to .appreciate some of the same traditions that we Dutchmen do. Fourth Sorority The groundwork has been set for a fourth sorority here at Union, and it is about time. The three existing sororities on campus have grown and prospered since their inceptions; they have enhanced the quality of the college experience for the many women who have chosen to partake in them over the years.-- Yet, because there are only three of them, they do not (and cannot) appeal to the wide variety of personalities on campus. The number of fraternities has been in- creasing continually (with a total of 18 fraternities now represented on campus); it is important for the number of sororities to grow, too. Obviously, one more sorority is not going to be able to cater to all those women who feel that they do not fit into any of the three sororities on campus now. But it will offer another option. Sorority life is not for everyone, but with the introduction of a fourth sorority on campus, it may prove to be a rewarding experience for some who may have otherwise missed out. Forum Elections Well, it seems that time has come again, time for those ever-popular Student Forum elections. This year the elections will be held on Friday, May 17th and there are fourteen positions, ranging from President to Class Representative, that will be voted on. This is all fine and dandy. Yet, this is a time in the year when the omnipresent Union student apathy becomes more apparent. Sure, usually the Class Representative positions are competitive. However, in point of fact, most of these other positions go vir- tually or completely unchallenged. Doesn't anybody care where their money is spent Or, to hit home a bit more, doesn't anybody ponder the fate of the Skeller? How about party policies, dormitory conditions or academic standards here at Union? These are some questions that Student Forum members continually deal with because of their positions. Questions that, directly Qlbindirectly, affect all students at Union. Every single student has the opportunity sitting and waiting for them to grasp. Why not just go for it!? Anything bothering you? Make yourself heard! Write a leHer to the editor CONCORDIENSIS, May 9, 1985 LETTERS Fraternity Rebuked To the Editor: Last week's Coneordiensis contained an article about the 18th fraternity at Union College. This certainly came as a sur- prise to the whole community. It seemed that overnight and perhaps through magic; a new fraternity appeared. Union College has 17 existing fraternities that represent one of the most diverse fraternity systems in this country. What contributions could an 18th fraternity bring to the highly diverse system that we have now? In addition, what con- stitutes the proper procedure for establishing a fraternity or any special interest group on this campus? These are two important questions that AEPI must address. It is clear;. through the back door methods used by this group, that anybody can start a fraternity or sorority without considering the needs or wants of the campus corrununity and more importantly, the Greek system. It is the Greek system at Union that determines whatits needs. are. Ofie cannot simply start a fraternity at the whim of a small group of individuals without considering the rest ·Of the population who know that there is no need for it. The individuals of AEPi should look to the newest ad- dition to the fraternity com- munity Alpha Phi Alpha, to illustrate how a fraternity comes into existence. Alpha Phi Alpha spent two years as an unre :,.,gnized organization who wholeheartedly embraced the ideals of the fraternity system. They strictly followed the guidelines outlined by the IFC as well as those of the ad· ministration. Instead, this new organization took it upon itself to dictate our needs. They have assumed Greek letters, advertised for a party, and even obtained a national charter behind the baks.of the entire Greek system and more importantly the administration. These actions can only be seen as antagonistic and detrimental to the established criterion of the Union fraternity system. Furthermore, it could very well prove to be detrimental to the organization itself. Respectfully submitted by The Officers of the IFC Pat Virnich Dan Rabinovitz Paul Flanigan Rich Preziotti ·Affiliation Explained To the Editor: Several weeks ago, eighteen students at Union College had the privilege of becoming brothers of the Alpha Epsilon Pi fraternity. All of us displayed a great amount of pride in becoming not only a brother, but also in becoming a member of the prestigious Union College Greek fraternity system. While we appreciate the article written about our new frater- nity in last week's Con· corttiensis, it did not accurately repreSent the ideals of the fraternity. It is true that the Alpha Epsilon Pi fraternity was originally established with a religious basis; however, most (if not all) fraternities were founded on the basis of some religious affiliation. The brotherhood wants it to be known, however, that we no longer have, or desire, any religious label or affiliation. This is exemplified by our first group of brothers who have. a diversified religious and ethnic background. We are the first to say that there is no place on this college campus, nor any other college campus, for any \exclusive\ fraternities. AEPi is open to all members of the college community and we express a deep regret that any implication to the contrary was made in last week's Con· cordiensis. The brothers of the Alpha Epsilon Pi fraternity will strive to be a fraternity that all of Union College will be proud to have. Thank you, The Brothers of AEPi Concordiensis Needs: Writers, photographers, artists and poets. Submit your name, box number and phone number to Concordiensis, Box 2577. LeHers to the ·editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis Photographers Needed Submit name and phone number to Box 2577 All letters to the editor ·must be typed and submitted by 4 . p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. Editors-in~Cbief News Editors· · \Features lilaitot AssOciate Eea:tures illditors , Commentary Page Editors .. Arts Editors CampusPage E(lj.t9rs . Sports Editors . .. \ ·\Advertising Editors · . . . ~ Associate Advertising EdUor Photo Editoc . Sports Photo Editors Subscriptions Editors DaveGruber · Pat Merrit~ Scott Press Bil1Fe~OO.rtl1acber, Danj~ Nicoli,,~ ..... · .·.Staff: Valerie 'Bromberg) David·· Brockman; ·Clarrie ·O&rrbne~ · Tod Dimmick, Fred Eisman, Adam Emerson, Lisa Foley, J.R •. ··· Fortunato, Nancy Grundman, ·David Gulliver, Julie ·. Kim Hittle~ek, 4.Rdy !Iedgkin:r Laooe,Hum.pllr~y~.· ... ·· .. .. ··· · Bri~m K-eating, Mark Leyton, Emily Loose, Cathy Markes, t>ave Marin, Joanne McAndrewst Peter Mohr, Gayle Rosenfeld, Am.y · ·Rosenkrantz, Charlie Slotnick, Jim Solomon, Mitc;hell Stein, Conrad Tatge 1 Scott Wykoff. . Photo Staff: Sarah Barth, Mike Bowman, Stuart Odell. CONCORDIENSlS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-3526. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter every three weeks. Subscription rate: $18 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States.

CONCORDIENSIS, May 9, 1985 LETTERS Security Issue Set Straight To the Editor, After reading three weeks' worth of letters about .Security, I've decided the facts need to be set' straight. As a member of the student body, I believe in our 'rights' just as much as anyone else on this campus. But . , . If you Qpen your 1984-!985 S~udent Handbook to page 4:7, the last .paragraph states: \The College reserves the right to inspect student rooms for reasons of health, safety, maintenance, or to verify· oc- cupancy.\ · ·Therefore, inspections are not illegal, as some have pointed out, nor does Security need consent from Residence Life or the student. However, it was not Security's intention to inspect rooms over spring break (ex- cept for some special cases). In actuality., they were inspecting fire extinguishers. Several years ago; extinguishers were installed in student rooms. Before this, they had been in hallways, and were being ~ destroyed or set off, costing the college thousands of dollars. State law requires inspection of the extinguishers, so Security must enter rooms. Inspections were done over spring break because tne department did not want to invade privacy, or in• terrupt personal activities. When inspecting ex- tinguishers, college property found near them was con~ . fiscated (total rooms and suites were not inspected). Students in possession of college property are subject to fines. In cases where students claimed they found the Signs, the security administration investigated, and in cases of reasonable doubt, the fines were dropped. I suggest that if something was accidentally confiscated, that was not college property, it be brought to Security's attention, but not in the form of sarcastic stories, As co-manager of the student security force and active student on campus, I feel we owe more to the department than false accusations. They are simply doing their job, as defined by the college, and are here to help, protect, and serve the students, althOugh it may not always seem so. There are rules, and we all have to follow them, or pay the consequences. Paying thousands of dollars each year does not give us the right to destroy and do whatever we like, just as it does not guarantee a degree. As Colleen Adinolfi suggested in last week's paper, com- munication should be improved between Security and students, if a problem needs to be resolved. Ignorant, fictitious articles don't help a situation. For those of you who ap- preciate the .help, protection, transports, etc. that Security Officers, as well as Student Officers provide, I thank you for the department. For those of you who don't, I ask you to look to the positive sides of Security, and the . 'things' we do for the college community. If you can't do this, at least get your fads in order to save yourself from ignorance. Sincerely, Kyle Vandercar ·Response-. To Number 18 To the Editor: This letter is written in response to the article \Number 18 Begun\ which appeared in last week's issue of Concordy. · Fraternities and sororities at any college, (and _at Union especially, where 50 percent of the student body are members of Greek organizations) ·share a set of responsibilities which will ultimately determine whether or not their existence is valuable to the campus com- munity at large. These responsibilities are manyfold. Primarily, we are responsible for maintaining a supportive atmosphere in which an in- dividual may mature socially and intellectually. Our in- dividualism is enhanced by the activities which we all take part in, as· houses, such as charity benefits, Greek W-eek, in- tramurals etc. -However, our existence as individual houses must never jeopardize the whole Greek System. That is the purpose of the IFC, who in recent years, has made . a committment to strengthening the Greek System, by passing various polic;ies to maintain a responsible social atmosphere, holding workshops to provide leadership training and en- couraging houses to work with the adininistration, not against it. . The establishment of a new house on campus must be preceded by the fulfullment of a uniform set of . guidelines provided by the IFC and the Administration. These guidelines insure that the house will start off on \the right foot\ in accordance with the responsibilities above. For example, Alpha Phi Alpha, w:'lich was recently approved by the IFC, went thr~mgh a two year period- in which they proved that they were capable of a positive contribution to campus life and that the house contributed to their growth as individuals. However, I fail to See how any house that 1) circumvents the administration and 2) does not even consult the IFC when establishing themselves could make a positive contribution to campus life. The \Brothers\ of Alpha Epsilon must be subject to the same policies which the rest of us had to an do abide by. The Greek System must be able to evaluate and approve a new addition so as to maintain the standards which we have set for ourselves. Those who \couldn't · wait 2 years\ must realize that it is for their organization's own benefit. That they chose not ·to inform the IFC and the College of their intentions jeopardizes our system and demands ac- tion. Respectfully yours, Chris Sullivan Phi Delta Theta '84 IFC Advisor 84-85 If clnyone has any information about Douglas . Serrano who graduated from Union College in 1984 please contact his parents, Mr •. & Mrs. Peter Serrano. Phone Collect (914) 863-6655. JUNIORS: It's Not Too Early . To Begin_ ·Thinking Watson . What's WATSON? Just ask this year's winner, Liese! Golden, who is busy deciding how to spend $10,000 in travel. Her proposal is to travel to Sweden and Israel to investigate the changing roles of women in the military. Liese! is one of seventy-students from sixty small liberal arts colleges. . . Applications are. due EARLY next Fall Term, and all that is required is a 'little desire, imagination and a 4-5 page essay. For $10,000 and a year of travel, it's worth it! . watch for notice of an informational meeting, later this term. If you can't wait, see Professor Klein in SS123 (~6056). Page9 Congratulations to the Resident Advisors 1985~86 Olivia Listzwan James Bradley Anne marie Loftus, HRA Dawn Chupay Gavin Morton· Claire Cousineau Chris O'Donnell, HRA John Delisio Dirk Petersen Kurt Elmgren- Howie.Podolsky Marc Feldstein Lisa Poskanzer Mary Forbes, HRA Stephen Quine Kris Gerbert Steve Rothschild Jim Gigante Paul Rubin Peter Goldstein Lory Sheehan Naresh Gunaratnam Rob Siefert · Kimberly Hancock Rachel Siegel Mark Hutchins Georgia Sullivan Ben K.hajehzadeh Craig Summers Pat Larkin Kevin Watkins, HRA Lori Leon Beth Whitehurst Andre LesPierre Craig Wortman Sarah Levin Carolyn Zutell An Ad Hoc Committee has been established to gather information relevant to the tenurabi I ity of Professor. Christina. Sorum- of the Classics Department. Anyone wishing to submit information should send it to Professor Tobiessen in the Biology Depart- ment. Any Senior who wis~es to sing the Alma Mater and the Star Spangled Banner at Graduation should contact NORA KREMER at 346-4060 or Box 1381 by Tuesday 1 May 14th Tickets will be held next week - Any Senior who wishes to speak at Graduation should submit a speech · to Box 1381 no later than Friday, May ·17. Speeches should be ap· proximately 1 0 minu,es long. Speeches received later than May 17 will not be considered. Please do not put your name on the speech I only your student ID number. USED BOOK SALE Carnegie Hall 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Hardcovers 50~ • Paperbacks 25~ To Support the St ... dent Book Fund (Sponsored by the Staff Association)

' !., Page 10 CONCORDIENS/S, May 9, 1985 SPEAKERS The Union College English Department and Idol, the student arts magazine, are pleased to announce. a poetry reading by William Hathaway and Jordan Smith, Thursday, May 16, at 8 p.m. in the Humanities Building Lounge (2nd floor). . The reading is free and open to the public. A reception will follow. CLUB NEWS Newman Folk Group- Sunday evenings at 6:30 p.rri. All singers and musiciat~s meet with Friar Paul to prepare for the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. New members welcome. Newman Meeting & Social- Monday, May 13 at 8 p.m. 4th .floor Lounge, Carnegie. Prayer-Scripture Group- Wednesday at 11:30 a.m. with Sr. Joan in 4th floor Lounge, Carnegie. Confirmation Classes-- Wednesdays at 1:30 p.m. in Sr. Joan's Office, 4th floor Car- negie. Tutorial Program-Any Union students interested in tutoring one hour a week at St. John the Evangelist School please contact Liz Karazim, 370-6774. \Human Rights\ in Chile Today,\ with Luis and Nancy Garcia of Talca, Chile. Mr. Garcia is Executive Secretary of the Synod of the Evangelical Presbyterian Church of Chile and a member of the Talca Chapter of the Commission on Human Rights. Monday, May 13, 12:30- 1:30 p.m. in Banquet Room, Carnegie. ·(Bring your own lunch.) Everyone welcome. CLA!£SIF[£.DS. WANTED TO RENT: Fur- nished apartment or share a house for month of July by General Electric visiting professor. Call 387-7308 mor- nings. Ht' bi, ;PY, I'm Chi'p fr'<»n Uwc.., Coll4aje I~ SCIAmeC'Iz:JciY ...__/Wher-e 's /ley/ ~ 'v.P ~ ,f ~.~~ /o#l~ chr&s ar\OJI1(:/ hfN.e / SENIORS! WANTED: To share an apartmentfor month .of July by General Electric female sumnier student. Call 387.;7308 mornings. • FOR SALE: 1980 VW Rabbit, excellent condition. 53,000 miles. 4-door, AM-FM radio. Call 465-3048. The Union College Staff Association will hold a used book sale from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Thursday, May 16, in the lobby of Carnegie. Proceeds of this sale will be used for the Student Book Fund. This is a fund set up to help students who need financial assistance for pur- chasing textbooks. All t¥P_es of books will be for sale ahd your donations are needed. Books may be left in the lobby of Lamont House, the Government Activities Office in Schaffer Libracy, or in' the Student Activities Office bet- ween May 9-15. Subletters needed for sum- mer! Doubleapartment,close to campus, reasonable rent, in good condition. Call x6484. We. afe o\' opf¥.R:S¢ f9='PJQ who haoJ.a 110 -h'iWJ fat $CJdt. dJJI£V'$ioVI$ • S<n~el-low I -//tiM~ CJtip is ~nova/11 1- ft> my si~Otl. _.) The New York City Alumni Club it:.vites al.l seniors who will be living in New York CiW after graduation to attend a \Night at the Ballpark: Yankees vs. Orioles\ on Wednesday, June 26. Tickets are $10.00 each and must be reserved by May 30. For more details, call the Alumni Office at6168. There will be a meeting of all Juniors majoring in Economics, Industrial Economics, . Managerial Economics or ID (Eco.- XX) on Wednesday, May 15, at 3:30p.m. in SS 115. The purpose of this meeting is to briefly review the senior thesis project and to assigN. students to thesis advisers. This meeting should be attended regardless of which term one intends to enroll for Eco. 09 (or ID 09). Those unable to attend should The film committee presents ''Places in the Heart\ on 5 - 10- 12 at 7, 9, 11 p.m., and \Hop- scotch\ (free) at 7, ~, 11 p.m. Tickets are $1 available at Student Box Office. Films shown in SS016. CAM.P UN'ION IS COMING' JUNE 1, 1985 Fitzhugh Ludlow Day ·May 17th 1985 J•.', RESTAURANT AND BAR . AFTERNOON SPECIAL , TANQUERAY & TONICS $1.25 Now open at 2 p.m. Mon.-Fri. For Your Drinking Pleasure YEARS·OOK MEETING Thursday at 7:30 In the Yearbook Office (4th floor Carnegie) Help ·.wanted; Write for Arts Call 6155 \GOD\ is coming!! (Parent's Weekend) Repent now. Buy tickets for Woody Allen's hit comedy sponsored by Mountebanks Parent's W.eekend-- May 9, 10,11 May 14,_16, 17, 18 Tickets on sale at Student Activities • $3 Students w/1 D • • $4 Faculty • • $5 General Public_•

May 15. presents on 5 -10- \Hop- ' 11 p.m. at Films ~d; Arts gl! 's ACTIVITIES Stanley Kubrick's film \Dr. Strangelove Qr:. How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb\ will be presented at the New York State Museum on Sunday, May 12 at 1:00 and 3:00 - p.m. The film is part of a series complementing the exhibit Disarming Images: Art for Nuclear Disarn:iament on view at the State Museum through June 2, 1985, All of the programs are free and open to the public For more information call 518-474-5877. CABARET presents: Act One.: DARCEE EVANS & JULIE MOUNTAIN Act Two: WENDY RICHARDS & JIM HAVARD With a Special Guest M.C. THIS Thursday Night, May 9, at 9 and 11 p.m. Beer, munchies, wine, punch, and more BEER!! CABARET presents a special Parents' Weekend Edition WITH Act One: Diane Sadak and Julie Mountain · · · Act Two: Dave Provost . Act Three: Leslie Shamilzadeh and Diane Pavacic M.C. Luke Fannon Saturday night, May 11, at 8 and 10 p.l.Jl. Beer, wine, mun- chies, punch and GREAT ENTERTAINMENT. Bring your 'rents and show 'em a good time!!! PERSONALS Dear Mom and Dad, Hi! Love, your son HiMom and Dad! Welcome to Union! I hope that your flight comes in okay! -Jan T~B., What shall I say? Push any button--G.C., F.S., or T.B.M. How many defects left in the computer? You won't find any in my heart. I.L.Y.!!! your smudgeless mate Jodi......:Talk abaut the blind leading the blind! Maybe you need a better tutor and more books! Love, Someone who knows Mr. Bear~Are you biting? Just nibbling? Cut it out; you know what that does to me! ! ! Hey, did you hear that CHRIS SILER is running for STUDENT FORUM PRESIDENT??!! Thank the Mom who spoiled you rotten CONCORDIENSIS, May 9, 1985 Just think . MIKE LIGHT- MAN, it could've been a lot worse, ... To my \authentic'' XY: lt's been six good months for you and six good months for me. We can't do that P .O.Q. or we might get \XYZ.\ Kisses, XX Two months .plus two days, also known as nine weeks, otherwise referred to as sixty- three days, alias seven weeks past THE Thursday, sometimes called, one-sixth of a year- sweetheart, I Love Yau. To th~ sensual panther and friends-what sweet tortures lie ahead? I can't wait to find out! But, you'll have to wait your turn, because only I know the rules of the next game! ~your \Land M\ Clarice- Your days of freedom are numbered! For although you hide well in the woods, it is not so in the city, and my eyes and ears are everywhere! And, when I do find you, I shall not be gentle! -Baron C. Castellan Wanted: future roommate with one of the following-1. ·Good lottery n.Umber. 2. Influential parents. 3. A large gun or knife. 4. Blackmail shots of DW. Why? Without it, you don't have a prayer for housing! Hi Mom and Dad! ! Welcome to Union! I hope that your flight here was okay. Have a good time! I hope the weather here is better than it is in Chia. Dear Jimmy, Roses are red, Daffodils are yellow, I love you the most, when you're covered with Jell~ Love always, EliSabeth Baa Baa Blacksheep have you any tumbleweed? Yes Slurp, yes Slurp three beds full. One for my master, one for my dame and one for. little -seymoUJ.~· · ·~, · .v , • ~· ·- · Who lives down the lane .. Attention! Friday night is GEEK NIGHT at the Skellar!! ! Call J.P. for reservations. Brought to you in part by Robotron ... BEEP. Fitzhugh Ludlow Day Committee & Mercury Recording Artists present Page 11 Superman: (maybe that shOuld .be MY name) I guess I still respect you ... Love you, Lois Geek Sex--A Contradiction in terms. Joanesis 5: 12 T.P ., As I promised, you will pay for your indescretion; slowly A Pie S.A., Please excuse her manners, I don't have her fully broken in yet. Sincerely, A.J. COLLEGE MAINTENANCE CO. \We 1'-i:Jt Anytlljng\ · a·Lawft Clean-up • Painllllfl • Carpentef\' • landstaping • Small Appliance Repairs • PlumbiiiiJ • Willliaow Glazing No Job Too Small FREE ESTIMATES Reasonable Senior Engineering Students CALL MIKE .382~9688 JOHN 382•9159 May17, 1985 at4:30 WEST BEACH ... with·a Mother's Day Greeting from Recycled Paper Products Available at: UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE Only8Days 'Til . FITZHUGH LUDLOW DAY May 17,·1985 Special Events Giant Twister Game, Water Balloon Toss_, P ie-in-the,.·F-ace; · Fireworks, .· ·Ice· Cream~ Bar- becue, T-Shirts, and Much More! 'fRtSHMAW' 1'1'1 1\!E:I\VO<JS ABOuT 601 t-~6 w-tiGirr LIFrlrJ6 J L.TIP..F-. Y! {.JHAT If SOI'I\t:ollli:: foll/'ll<;t) ftJW oF ME? - AnENTION SENIORS The four \rain\ tickets for the commencement exercises wi II be issued as follows: SILLIMAN HALL LOBBY WEDNESDAY, MAY 15 10:00-12:00 a.m. & 1:30-3:30 p.m. You will be asked to sign a receipt for your tickets, and you will be given an opportunity to indicate the number of extra tickets you would like if available. Those students who do not pick up their tickets at this time may lose their op- portunity for extra tickets. As soon as the total number of available seats has been determined, extra tickets will be proportioned and sent to those seniors requesting. them through their mailbox,. HEY- LOOk AT . HOW Moc,i-1 nil~ G.UY I~ t..\f1'1N6 J \ :r .(A.l\.1 JS£Li£:VE: p,t~~YoNE. wotJL.D c;.r:r soc. I-I sTUf>l D STAN D4RDS FOR Ff:.I~ND Sl·ill' ! H A }-fA HA J-J.A t-lOW KA ~-~~ H f\ 11ft : JMBARASSIN6! \ \ .. ~ANI<. (;.OO YOU Dg_tJ,GIES ARE. '100 GONFIJS:E.P TO SE. T Si~NDA~DS fOR- ANYt\IJI~G! AT LE.I\ST Yov'~ STILL. MY FRIE-ND~ ~lbl-ff\ P£1'£ ( T r· ,,,_ ... ~ .. ,. ********* T -Shirt Designs wanted for Camp Union T -Shirt Please submit to Mrs. Marra by May 17th ********* I I DQr-Ji I ~t,JoW 1 t41\N. HE (\luf.\f\ HAllE fOL-LO\;Jt:D ME IN! 1 IS; ~ow 1\'\f\tJY BONG tHiS c..AtJ yov oo ?! ·\ •.

Page 12 COJ\(CORDIENSIS, May 9, 1985 THE ARTS 1... (!) .0 :;) 1... 0 ~ > ro Cl >- .0 0 +- 0 .c. 0. 'This Night' was theirs, as the Dutch Pipers joined the Russell Sage Sagettes for a \Pleasing Performance of Preposterous Proportion,'/ last Saturday night in Old Chapel. Pleas!ng Pipers, Super Sagettes ;oin forces . . . The Perfect Poi ring By MICKEY BRADLEY Arts Editor they went to the bathroom. When they did come down, the comedy continued: witness, for example, the too-cool sunglasses they all donned as they doo-wopped their way through Billy Joel's \This Night\ behind Ken Budka's lead. Or the raunchy snickering they indulged in on the choruses of \Under The Boardwalk\ at the thought of just what lead singer Bruce Osler might be · doing there. Their funniest effort was \How Can I Miss You If You Won't Go Away?\ a heartfelt lament about the one who wouldn't leave. Of course, there was a healthy supply of traditional songs too. In particular, \Moonlight Bay,\ \Sweet Adeline,\ \Loch Lomond,\ and \Cockles and Mussels., (on which Junior Pipers' was. They began with \San Francisco Bay Blues,\ a tune that set the pace for the rest of the evening in its blend of intricate harmonies, melodic singing, and engaging storyline that made them an instant hit with the audience. Like the Pipers, the Sagettes know how to have fun on stage; on the Pointer Sisters'' \Fire for instance, two members wore sunglasses and strummed air guitars during the verses, while on the choruses they held out lighters, striking them whenever the word \fire\ was sung. On another song, \I Like You Just The Way You Are,\ they pulled out a member of the audience to sing the tune directly to him. Other numbers included ''Going To The Chapel\ (dedicated to a former A Saga of Spring By KIMBERLY HANCOCK Staff 'Twas the night before Spring, and all through the dorm, . the exclamation was heard, \Tomorrow's gonna' be warm!\ The shorts were unearthed, everyone eager for a tan, they dug out their flip-flops and turned on the fan. The students thenall passed out flat in their beds, with visions of sunshine going, through their heads. My roomie in her nightgown and I in my scrubs, had jut settled doWil after a night at the Pub. When out in front of West there arose sucb a clatter, I sprung from my bed to see what was the matter. Away to the window I flew like a flash, stubbed my toe on the desk and knocked over the trash. Hopping up and down while clutching my toe, I got to the window, but how I don't know. When what to my squinting eyes should appear, but blankets and frisbees, radios and beer. T-shirts, shorts, tanning oil and spring flowers, I knew in a moment it must be prime tanning hours. Then all of a sudden out a window they came, · I heard each one distinctly as they called them by name. \No Chemistry, No History, No English, No Psychology, No Orgo, No Eco, artd we won'tstudy Biology! · We don't care what it isthat they want to teach, all we want to do is lie out on West Beach!\ It was then I noticed everyone just loafing around, people were lying out all .over the grounds. Around I turned and through the room I flew, Since I was determind to get a tan, too. My blanket, my sunglasses and cocoa butter I took, and yes ... I just had to ... my new history book. lspread out my gear-a good spot I'd found, when up to my blanket he came with a bound. He was painted all colors from his head to his toe, I couldn't distinguish if he was friend or foe. And just when I deduced it was some kind of joke, he opened his mouth and these words he spoke. \If by the end of the day you want to be brown, I'd strongly advise you put that book down. Take a look around-use your own eyes, just to convince you that I'm not telling you lies, Don't you see everyone here having lots of fun? concentrating malnly on soaking up the sun.\ On every blanket he bid me to look, nowhere, he pointed out, would I find a book. With a wink of his eye and a twist of his head, told me he was the ''idol'' and I had nothing to dread. \I haven't seen you around, you must be new here, you're obviously a freshman and it's your first year. It's something no one told you-a Union tradition, and that's exactly why I tQok up this mission. ONLY do work when the forecast is rain, sunny days in the library will drive you INSANE! Lie out on West Beach every swmy day, concentrate on your suntan, Forget your GPA:!\ He sprang from my blanket, wisked my history book away, as he disappeared I'm sure I heard him say ... \I've done a good deed to my fellow man, Happy Springtime to all, and to all a GOOD TAN!\ The Dutch Pipers may dress in fancy tuxedos and sing in impeccable harmonies, but don't let them fool you. Far from the stodgy, straight-laced choirboys of old, this group . of talented students are just as concerned with style and their own brand of humor as they are with classy singing. The em- phasis is not so much on. being professional-though they certainly can be when they want to-but on being personable and having as good a time as they are giving their audience. That combination was in heavy evidence in their concert last Saturday night. Billed as a \Pleasing Performance of Preposterous Proportion'' (and it was), the show also featured guests the Russell Sage Sagettes, a seven member female equivalent of the Pipers. Curtis Johnson sang iead) came off memorably well, the vocals clear and crisp and beautifully arranged. The Pipers showed equal propensity for ballads and up-tempo pieces, and that helped make the show such a well-rounded delight. Of course, just when you thought they'd committed themselves to a professional performance, an audience member came up on stage to hand leader Ken Budka a long black case. The puzzled Pipers opened it and took out a pool cue, realizing: \This must be our cue to leave.\ Ever get the feeling someone's pulling your leg? Continued on page 13 . Quartet Plays With Style Piper concerts are always the purest forms of entertainment; the relaxed atmosphere, the natural connection and ease between performers and audience, and the overriding sense of fun-not to mention the top quality vocal stylings---all combine to make their shows more than a mere display of aural abilities. For instance, they began their segment of Saturday's concert, as they often do, by addressing the audience from the balcony of Old Chapel, announcing in beautiful four-part harmony that they'd be down as soon as The Sagettes' set, which opened the show, was every bit as enjoyable and fun as the The Arts Club & The Dance Club· present Spring Performance '85 2:45-3:45 Memorial Chapel Mayll By CARRIE CERRONE Staff The Emerson String Quartet (Philip Setzer, violin; Eugene Drucker, violin; Lawrence Dutton, viola; David Finckel, cello) played flawlessly to a packed Memorial Chapel on Thursday evening. This con- cert, presented by Schenectady Museum & Union College, was the final performance in the 1984-1985 series entitled \International Festival of Chamber Music XIII.\ The uniqueness of the Emerson. String Quartet is attributed to the fact that the position of first violinist is shared between Philip Setzer (1st in Mozart, Haydn, and Bartok) and Eugene Drucker (1st in Schubert). The program included \Fugues from Bach's 'Well Tempered Clavier,\' Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart; \Quartet in G Major, op. 76, No. 1,\ Fr~nz Joseph Haydn; \Quartet No. 14 in D Minor, D. 810,('Death and the Maiden'),'' Franz Schubert. A fugue, which is charac- terized by formal imitation of a theme, is usually composed of three basic movements: ritornello (repitition of an established theme); imitative soloists, slower than the ritornello; and a faster fugal portion. The Mozart fugues were bright, light, and airy; slow and mournful, yet elegant and imitative; peaceful, soft, and soothing; and en- thusiastically lively, respec- tively. The Haydn was especially enjoyable. The first portion was cheerful, exciting, and at the same time, drarn,atic. The second movement featured a slow flowing theme which alternated with a playful theme and repeated this pattern. The third movement was aggressive and energetic. The technique of rhythmically plucking the strings was implemented by the musicians. The final movement of Haydn's \Quartet in G Major, Op. 76, No. 1, was sinister, frustrating, and fast moving. The most intriguing, unusual, and dramatic piece of the evening was the Bartok \Quartet No. 3.\ The music was mysterious, ominous, and startJing. The demand of the performers' physical energy was overwhelming. It was evident why the intermission was taken after playing this selection without pause. This extravagant piece was tur- bulent and atypical of the other three classical period selec- tions. The music sounded synthesizer-like in parts. The performers used a variety of techniques including plucking of strings, tapping the neck of the instruments, and em- phasizing the harmonics of the three different instruments. The first movement of the closing piece, Schubert's ''Quartet No. 14 iii D Minor, D. 810 ('Death and the Maiden'),\ was enthusiastic, yet stressful because of the two competing themes. The fist was dramatic and substantial; the second, soft, delicate, and subdued. The second movement was quiet and sad and featured fugual imitation. The first violin was extremely ornamented and extravagant. Again, there were conflicting themes: one vibrant and powerful; the other cute and gentle. The third movement was intense i:tnd the audience could \feel\ the music flowing through them. The · final movement was exceptionally fast moving and full of energy. A dramatic fragment chased a weak and docile fragment. The constant motion was well communicated. This concert was fascinating and enlightening. These uniquely gifted musicians played phenomenally well and were able to effortlessly convey the meaning of each master- work to the audience who gave several standing ovations and called the performers back on stage a number of times. Bravo to the Emerson String Quartet!

g I, be warmi\ ash. ' '• tame. logy, ld. neck of and em- of the of the Minor, D. Maiden'),\ stressful competing dramatic second, The was quiet fugual violin was and there WCfe vibrant other cute audience flowing ·final of energy. chased a The was well fascinating These musicians well and convey master- who gave and back on Bravo Quartet! SPAC 1985 ·schedule The schedUle tor the Saratoga Performing Arts Ce~ter's 1985 season was annoooced last week. Tickets go on sale at all Ticketron outlets on Saturd~y, May 18 and there are six to ten concerts sbll to be announced. June 14: REO Speed wagon June 15: Emmylou Harris with Tom Rush June 16: Tom Petty and the Heart- breakers · June 18_: Bryan Adams June 22: Dan Fogelberg (a solo acoustic performance) June 23: Phil Collins June 24: The Pointer Sisters June 25: Eric Clapton June 27: Grateful Dead July 14: Air Supply July 21: Huey Lewis and the News .July 23: The Happy Together Tour with The Turtles, The Buckinghams, The Grass Roots, and Gary Lewis and the Playboys. July.25-26: Barry Manilow July 28: Chuck Mangione July29: Foreigner July 30: afternoon-Philip Glass En- semble; evening-The Temptations and The FourTops · July 31: Gordon Lightfoot Aug. 1-2: Liza Minelli Aug. 3: Junge Deutsche Philharmonie Aug. 4: Peter~ Paul and Mary Aug. 5: Judy Collins Aug. 11 : Liberace Aug.13: Kenny Loggins Aug.l9: Amy Grant Aug. 20: Steve Lawrence and Eydie Gorme Aug. 28': Crosby, Stills and Nash Aug. 29: ArJo Guthrie and Pete Seeger HAPPY MOTHER'SDAY! CONCORDIENSIS; May 9, 1985 Page 13 THE ARTS Union's own Jim Harvard opens tor Steve Landesberg Friday night in memorial Chapel, but he can also be seen tonight at cabaret at 9 and 11. Student Fiction .•. The Practi·cal Solution By THEODORE CHARLESTON Staff Emile V.H. reclined in his exceedingly plush armchair and contemplated the im- mediate future. His thoughts were not on the huge sum of money he had so recently spent, but on the intended result of his expenditure. Life, for Emile, hadlong since become devoid of meaning. Even with the time and resources available to him, he was still very much unable to do everything he desired. Every waking moment was spent exploring things new to him. Yet this was futile, and Emile knew it. As the richest man in the world, he was by definition the most able to meet his own wants. Everyone else would be much less able to do so. For them, he realized, life would be little more than a temporary purgatory, a place best passed through as quickly and painlessly as possible. Emile stood up and walked slowly to the huge crystal-:glass window that took up an entire wall. Through it he saw the distant earth, shining brilliantly just above the lunar horizon. Its mottled blue and white colors reminded him of nothing as much as a toy marble he had once had as a child. In many ways, both were similar; both could be changed, given the right tools. Emile paced back and forth on a terribly expensive antique rug in front of the window. His thought briefly touched memories of his youth, and of his long climb up from virtual poverty. Along the way he had seen many, many suffering people. They suffered not from aches or diseases, but from the very fact that they were forced to exist. In all recorded history, no society had ever been able to provide for all of its members. Emile attributed that to human nature-at certain times, selfishness seemed to be a necessary survival instinct, and it just had not been bred out of the race when evolution decided to make man intelligent. If this was the case, Emile reasoned, than the human race was the biggest example of futility ever to exist. He had seen enough hardship in his life to believe that suffering had a negative value; and enough good to see that goodness itself had a positive value. On Emile's scale, untempered existence rated a zero. Emile thus concluded that since there was substantially more suffering in the world than there was good, human existence was basically a negative-sum game. Peace for all, the voiced wish of many, seemed to require that existence be at least a zero-sum game or better. Since that didn't appear very possible, given the very nature of man, Emile had taken the task upon himself. It was not an easy thing to decide to do. He thought it over repeatedly, but always came to the same conclusion: that because most people are destined to suffer in some way or another, they are far better off not existing at all. Emile returned to his arm- chair and regarded the distant glove, a failed birth. He sighed and pressed a button set into the armrest. Then he returned to his contemplation of the void. Nothing happened im- mediatly. The viruses, released at thousands of points around the globe, would be taking some effect. For a while frantic and desperate messages would be sent back and forth, the screams of a dying animal; then there would be utter silence. Peace for all con- cerned. WRUC 89.7 fM \STEREO Swaying Sagettes sang at Union last week with The Dutch Pipers. • • • Pipers, Sagettes Sing Continued from page 12 Sagette who was in the audience with her fiance, \Softly \Sould I Do It,\ \These Ivy Walls,\ and the Sagettes signature song, \Seven Daf- fodils.\ Unlike the Pipers, who are strictly an a capella outfit, the Sagettes used a guitar to supplement several of their pieces. The Sagettes left the stage to make way for the Dutch Pipers, but returened for an encore and the two groups sole collaboration. The song was Billy Joel's \The Longest Time,\ which was coin- cidentally in both acts' repetoire· but which they had rehearsed together only once that afternoon. Despite this, it gets my vote for best per- formance of the evening; an irresistible blend of harmonious singing and laughable antics (the Sagettes mocked the Supremes' back•up hand motions, and the Pipers mocked the Sagettes). It was the perfect cap to a thoroughly enjoyable show. A wine and cheese reception followed in Milano Lounge, where both groups gave im• promtu performances. For the Pipers it was the famous \A woe Ame\-a D.P. classic which I won't try to describe-and for the Sagettes it was a sixties medley that included \Twist and Shout,\ \The I .ocomotion,\ \Blue Moon,\ and several others, sung as a setanade to Piper Winston Bliss. The Dutch Pipers and the Sagettes make a fantastic apir, but if you missed the show last week, fear not. You still have a chance to catch the Pipers Saturday, when they perform on the steps of Memorial Chapel, or later that night when they perform for the parent's dinner at the Ramada Inn. My advice to those who have never seen them before is to follow what the Pipers advertised for last week's show: \Bring your friends, bring a date, bring the kitchen sink, bring your friend's kitchen sink, BUT BE THERE!!\ Here it is: THE WRUC TOP 89.7. These albums were the most frequent spinners on WRUC turntables for the past week. Clip it out and hang it on your refrigerator for quick and easy reference. And don't say you're out of those little magnets. Remember to request your favorite new music at 379-6151. This Last Label Week Week-Artist, Album 1. Tears for Fears, \Songs from the Big Chair\ Polygram 1 Sire/RT 3 Elektra - Portrait 4 FakeDoom 8 2. Smiths, \Meat Is Murder\ 3. Howard Jones, \Dream Into Action\ 4. SADE, \Diamond Life\ 5. Cucumbers, \Who Betrays Me And Other Happier Songs\ 6. Joan Armatrading, \Secret Secrets\ A & M 2 7. Game Theory, \Real Nighttime\ Enigma 7 8. Velv!i!tUndergtound, \VU\ Verve 6 8.97Prince, \AroundtheWorldinaDay\ WB • Program Notes: Tune in for information on the upcoming Tears for Fears giveaway ... The Week in Review is heard on 89.7 FM Thursdays at 6 p.m .... Tune in to Jazz on WRUC weekdays from 1 to 4 p.m .... A track from each top 8.97 album is counted down in an exclusive airing every Wednesday at 10 p.m. -compiled by Evan Schwartz WRUC Music Director

·' .. ,. Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, May 9, 1985 SPORTS Men's Golf Finishes At .500 By JACK NICKLAUS Campus Golf Pro Dutchmen bettered their score Maclellan went at the pin. Hig by one (67) totalling nine under, gamble did not pay off as he The mens' golf team (3-3) enough to finish first. pushed it slightly and ended traveled to Oneonta Country In addition, Union's Mike O.B. Rozzi proceeded to loft a Club and finished in a tie for Rozzi fired a one over par 73 wedge thirty feet left of the hole second in the ten team Hart- Monday to come from five and two putted. for the win. wick Invitational. The tour- strokes back and capture Rozzi also recorded the longest nament structure required that medalist honors. Rozzi's 150 (77- drive in the fairway on the 11th each day the low four out of five 73) was two better than Utica's to win that competition. scores ·Of each team would be Gary Wibb and three better In previous matches the combined. After the first day than first round leader, Dutchmen have been hot and the Dutchmen weretied forfifth Elmira's Stan Maclellan. cold. No player broke 80 in the with a total of 326. Mike Rozzi Playing in the same group only first match as they lost to both 77, T.J. Ryan 83, Chris Hutchins two strokes separated the three RPI and Skidmore. One week 83, and Tim Diemoz 83. In ad- players coming up the 18th. later led byT.J. Ryan's 75 and dition, the Dutchmen were also Maclellan had a one shot lead Rozzi's 76 they .defeated AIC at tied for fourth in the bestball over Rozzi and two over Wibb. Longmeadow Country Club. competition. Theirfour under 68 Wibb sprayed his tee shot and Following this match the cunsisted of four birdies and an took himself out of the hole. Dutchmen returned to their eagle. (Birdies carded on the Both Maclellan and Rozzi hit home course where they same hole were only used once.) good tee shots and had wedges avenged their loss to RPI and In Munday's second round, the into the green. The pin was cut trounced Hartwick. The nut- Dutchmen combined for a 323 to the back right of the green. chemen finished their season which put them in a tie for Designed as it was the pin sat last Friday when they traveled second behind champion twelve feet from the right side to Vermont to play Middlebury Colgate. In the bestball the which was O.B. Being away College. 1985 UNION COLLEGE FINAL SOFTBALL STATISTICS 13 game totals Name Gms Lorraine Thomas 2 Colleen Dundon 13 Peggy Petro 13 Angie Miczek 13 Jean Monaco 12 Jill August 6 Lyla Meader 11 Shelly Pino 12 Jeannie Haller 13 Kim Mangino 13 Glna Zaccardo 10 Patty Richards 12 Robin Weiner 5 Val Barbie 2 Amy Stake 1 Team Totals 13 Pitcher ST Angie Miczek 10 Amy Stake 1 Jeannle Haller 2 Team Totals 13 AB R 2 0 42 9 48 15 44 15 36 7 10 2 38 12 36 10 43 18 44 8 27 11 25 3 3 (J 0 0 0 0 398 110 CG RA 9 3 0 1 0 0 9 4 (10-3 RECORD) . H 2b 3b HR SB BB so RBI Avg. 1 0 0 0 0-0 1 0 0 .500 18 4 2 0 0-1 3 0 13 .428 17 2 1 0 6-6 4 0 8 .354 15 5 2 0 6-6 8 3 12 .341 11 3 0 0 1-2 6 0 7 .305 3 0 0 0 0-0 1 1 1 .300 11 2 0 1 2-2 2 3 6 .289 10 0 0 0 5-~ 7 2 4 .278 11 2 0 0 6-6 10 2 7 .. 256 10 0 0 0 5-5 3 5 16 .227 6 1 0 0 2-2 5 3 4 .222 5 1 2 0 2-2 4 5 7 .200 0 0 0 0 0-0 0 1 0 .000 0 0 0 0 0-0 0 0 0 .000 0 0 0 0 0-0 0 0 u . 000 118 20 7 1 35-37 54 24 85 .296 IP H R ER so BB w--L--Save ERA 87 63 38 23 32 40 10--3--0 1.85 3.2 7 9 3 1 5 o--o--o 5.25 3.1 1 14 9 0 15 o.:.-o--0 21.00 94 71 61 35 33 60 10--3--0 2.61 ISC/UNION COLLEGE CAMPAIGN W. Lax Finlsh at 5-7 By Sports Staff SCHENECTADY The Union in scoring for the second straight year. Her 29 goals this season gives her 64 for her three-year varsity career. Freshman Jane Barkin netted women's lacros.se team at Union College ended its 1985 campaign Monday, May 6 with a 12~9 loss at Hartwick. The defeat left the Dutchw.omen at 5·7 and a bit disappointed in the way the season turned out. Union gave up 128 goals this year, just four more than last year, .but in a reversal of 1984's 7-6 campaign, 71 of this year's tallies were scored in the second half. Three times this year the Dutchwomen were tied at the half only to lose the game. All four times that Union trailed at the half, the opposition won the game. On the other hand, the Garnet won all five of the games ill which it led at the break. · 20 goals in her rookie campaign while junior Lorna Rushforth had 16. Seniors Laurie Bidstrup and Kathy Furst rounded ·out the double figure scorers with a · dozen goals each. In goal, junior Monica Lobel recorded 129 saves while allowing 124 goals. In two seasons between the pipes for Union, Lobel has registered 260 saves while allowing 242 goals. She played in every game for the second year in a row. Junior Bonnie Faulkner led Sophomore Elaine Pick was elected as the team's Most Valuable Player at Union's annual Block U Awards Dinner last week. :: 1.. 1.. Q) :1: ... Ill 0. >- .0 0 0 .c 0. Sophomore Elaine Pick scoops ball in game on the turf. Pkk scored seven goals this season for the Dutchwomen . A.IYes, Stev\ 87 l'ajcer~ Dale 87 Berucna, Robert 85 ft,ow)er • Christopher 87 BrlJht, Ceri1 BEl ftrttton, Winston !S nrown-, Ja..es 87 caapanet u. Gereri 16 Cirillo, Steven 15 Coltan, Peter 86 CoThry, Peter 85 Cox, Brian 85 ~vlin, Tiaothy 85 Duffy, Sean 87 Ehudln, Jt.brc 85 Fannon, Luke 85 F lanniaan. Paul 86 85 !6 !5 87 85 Block U Letter Winners 1984-85 Fall Sports Claveloux, Gu,r Crandi!U, Robert Oavb, VlttOI' faU, Adam FledleT, &toward Fore•n, Grant lt.rria, Miehat\l Hart•n. ·SteVen -Hiscox, Dadd Jfuthes, Irian Mohlar, J:obert Vlcnb, JIIIIICS PhUbrid, 'David Roberts·, Christopher • Ste1etunn, Peter • TeVAibur)', David Trageser, Albert Vol ino, Frank Wllk, Dou&las ClOSS COONT1lY - lEN lfOHEH' S SOCCf.R 117 August. Jill 87 Clc-ente, R~becca 87 Dundon. follr~n 87 ~g\n• ~reline 81 Ha!lor, Jcannh 86 »odin. Deborah 85 Jolarm. Celia 87 Mcfarhn, ClaTisu 117 ~nc:h, As~rid 36 Petro. Mlr«aret 87 R1thbun, Lisa 31 Rlchlards, ratdda es Roach, Plitrida !l'i Sa kale, lynn 85 * Sh~w • Sar11h 88 Soley, Hary 11 UrfeT, Carol BS Wetherell, Leona 87 Wrl\-ht EJ h~tbeth FJELD HOCI:EY 80 •• ·~ 88 87 as 88 •• •• 85 86 •• .. •• 88 ,. 87 a a 88 Ford, Jonathan Glate, lolartin Harris, Rocrr Hurhes. Louis HuttneT, Leonard Johnson, John Kellaher, Richard Koonce, Robm't Kraft, Frank Lafrllnce, Ja•es LoPnro, Robert McJ:elvey, Nark Nowak, Willia.• Olsep, Stephen Paquin, 14ark Parrott, Sherman Pol iaeno, \rthur Ra111undo, K.e'Jin RaiiUndo, Tisothr Rita, Alexand~r Ro•er, Richard Rooney, Stephen 85 DiCerba, Patrick II * '1:1aj ka, Frnnc:eos 87 as Leerou, J-.• aa 86 ,llcRoberu. Iilii.. 86 IS ~G'DoAnell. Christopher 86 81 Orwtt, Tl.athy 86 87 Reed, Micha431 117 1!15 Ricks, Heal \' 87 8S St.eMrd, Robert 17 ss 88 S8 85 86 •• !7 CROSS CO\JNTRY - IIOM\'dl DeiUfiY 1 Marthll Voulo, Miehele We.J !h. A.IA'f !7 !8 87 Gilbert, Carolyn 85 Lavarnway 1 Iaren 88 Milh, Wendy 87 ttmaep, Jean 88 J.b~hl\!k, Dianne 85 Pick 1 Elaine 81 ~enhher, ~ibtln 811 Sblyo, .l.nne Tuthi 11, Nora Tyree, Li'll1ztn Wa-shburn, Ch~ryl ;tute:ll, ClroJyn t:otEN'S TENHJS 87 87 8' •• sa Winter Sports 'ff\• S 9ASKETB~tL ll.lro, John .b.rlltn, l~vln !tanosc:h. Richard a..ck, l'ho.as .. ·ote-~1n, Tu11oth) ~hal~o. Ste-vtn ;ltc-.oz:. ll!!!Othlr I'Oh\rly. Jaaes n • Or·u 1 o. K,.•ua•th Fcx, (urt !.•:\ilN~· lenneth \411l~r. ~ll~:hae.l r~r .. nto, Robert ~3n~rtn, ~rk lttn .. ~oter, Ne1l Cleaen.te, Rebteea so !5 57 n \ •• 17 IS !5 •• \ 17 sa ... 37 !Jundon. Colletta at ~J.n«ina. J:l.tJerly M Pa·k. Elaine a7 *Rich.u-:Js. Patrtci.a ~ \o~r\ P.ttten, Micheile U lf~tHnJ:et, ~fb&n 1:\' to *'St~wart, Danl:el 88 87 ss 86 85 86 Brady, B&lrbn• *k COilf.-~r. Su:.ettr Forbe~. Miry J:eyes, Janet Mancino. XiiiMtl)' Piekarski. SueAnn Pino. Shell)' Rooney, l..otu sa Wona:, Cheri -Ann 87 86 86 !6 86 88 88 S5 85 Oppose Proposed Substantial Student loan Reductions CARNEGIE HALL Monday I May 13th Tuesday I May 14th MORE INFORMATION CALL ADAM X8616 St iclta, Cir~gory Tavitian, Nark V;~lente. Anthony \'ito, Jo!§eph Walker, Reinhard - llalltrr, Todd naters, Jol5eph \r11ht Paulck ~·s LACROSSE 81'11)', Stephen Carl, John C~pk11uskas, M<ITtin Clorite, tl-.othr Com1cl:., ftary Dr:tk~, .John * Ehudin. Mur Horn. Philip Johnston, Todd Kaye, Eric Leyton, t.brk l.loyd, DouJla' Lyon!, Crdg Manno Andrew Mc:CorD.lc:k, John Meyc--r, Tho thy Miller. Crail ~rton. Shawn Olney, J&•es Olson, Paul Pier,ol, Ifill h.• Ra.eo 1 John Ros~. Andrrw ThoTne. John Weber. Charh!l . 86 86 \' S6 !6 !8 !5 sa !S 88 !S 85 !0 !S !S 'B7 B8 18 88 !6 !5 n 88 87 88 87 86 17 81 sa Weisberger, ~LchaeJ •• WOMEN Is LACROSSE Spring Sports HCiffiJi' S OUTDOOR TRACK Cuttis, Cynthia !7 • Dilorio • .Jennifer \ Greif, Andr;ea 85 lbtpern, Julie .!7 ·Krot ikaw5kl. Karin !6 Lee, Jennifer sa Voolo. Hlchellt n lflhh, My !7 Wetherell. Leona !8 MEN'S OlTI'DOOR TJW::.: Allen, Todd !6 Barker. Jeffny !8 lertasna. ftobet't BS Dlacl •• Steven 87 Bri1ht. Cecil 81 lrltton. Winston 85 Lacy,--~ 88 Llehtaen, 1filliaa 85 *nn, Ja•es 16 H<:Roborts. Mill! .. 86 Jrofoblar, RObert 17 O'Donno~l. Chrbtoph&r 16 Reed, Mlchu! 87 • Ra'lilliu·d, f..eoH 86 Rldt5, Nea~ 87 Rot~~r, Richard na l-IEN'S MSEBALL A. Ali bonk, TiMOthy 85 Alves. ~teve 87 ltt~orrett, Thoatts 86 8nrto'lch, Richard 87 Cannon, Edwal'd 86 Cohan, Peter 86 Connolly, Danh·l 87 Harris, N.nhlaniel 85 kl!lta. Glenn 88 tbrkopo~los, Andrew 87 Rita, Alexander B1 llalker, Reinhard 86 Wood, Ja)' 8! II<JMEN'S SOFTMLL Dundn, Colleffl 88 llaller, Jeannte 87 Mtnaino, llaberly •• MeadCT, Lyll 16 . Mic:ek, An1eh 85 ... .Petro. 'Matcarch 8$ Plno, Shelly 3! Richnds, Patricia 86 Wetn:~r, Robin 85 z.accndo, Rel{lna !6 HEN;S !Pt.l' '<SH 'S SWI>t!IIIG Chrl5t0phor. Thc•u O.abot .• Dri:&l\ *Crouley. Andn-w l'oll, Mlcha•l .._ill&tt, Michael '¢01an. Jeffrey S:1wchuk, Chrl stophor S~;h~o~ter. lawnnc• Whaleta. John 11l0HEN' S SWit.ftiNG ~ut;wel&. huy loverln!. ratrich •rree4 11 Llu t.nu ... r, DoMa TJAa..- ~on ... n..odor• Suler, Jerfray lhd:, St~\in Britton, tflnstoa LltY, W&JTHt 'brm. J.-..• 4c'Rot-eru. •u 1 he \'oh t:ar. ~tobt'rt • IS !& sa 17 IS 15 ea 16 S7 !S !7 II 87 II !S ... IS 86 ··7 N •• .7 15 ea !6 ~· B' Shepard, tlanetl sa 8! Ste)llrd, RobGrt 81 DeoPippo, Platrick 1'1JOnne11 1 O.t'htophfr 86. Barkin, Jane Bidstrup, Laurie as Oie.oz, Ti.,ctt\: !7 ~t~e-d, Mic;hael carey, Sally 85 MEN'S TENNIS EliuM, Eri~ BB * Pc•H lard·, ~9tt cur, Oebb1c '$7 Hutci'lln,, Cbrbl'.optter ·e6 Sttrian1. tt.obollrt Ch•ehtoe, Rebecca 86 Bank i Doun:l u a7 • Jton.t. Mlc.hae.l es -·s 111100~ T!WX Faulkner. ~moiG !6 &el 1, Gftaory 88 ' Ry•n, 1' • .J. n&· fuT,t 1 Katherintt 85 O.mnlnahu. Jotm !7 CrHdt, CnMlle· - Gilbert, carolyn !S Golds~ll th, ~· !6 ~rua, _c,..t-.ta Hodl.n, Debbie u Creen, ~111» 16 Etael, la~ra t.obei, Monic• e6 Holsls, llrtdfo..S 16 Gnlf§ MIRJI Hon~:h. Mtrld B& •· Ml>lot, llicMrd IS *\\'\' ..... Julio •·Jiid;, !lalne 17 .. lker~ Gaort• Ia 1\tthlll. llonl ltu•hforth, Lorna •• ~to, Nlc:-.t• 5cM1ferdec~ar, J~met 16 ........ Soltl)', .... ,., 16 StewArt. Suun 16 Nnhburn, Chnyl 86 • indicates athlete chosen as a team MVP. • Any varsity letter wlimers who haven't yet picked up their awards, please do so next week at Alumni Uym IUIY day from 9 a.m.-4 p.m. $1 ... 17 ,. u 10 ts \ 17 .. t1

this her netted ·out with a· Lobel while two for 260 goals. for ~. ~k was Most Dinner ::: Sports ~ le-vln Richard i.t!Oth) te-ven K\1meth nneth chul obert \\'* ell ~ \\\-\ ne Patricia Michell• ~rbara 1.. 1.. Q) :E ... Ill a. > .0 0 0 .s:: 0. 16 !S ,, n .. u ,, IS !S •• \ II u .. 87 .. .. 11 ... !I ,, !1 Thow.u 16 ~6 14 IS TiMJthJ 86 r..w .. ~ ... t1 U Stw\'\\' IS Jot. \ ,... .. 17 .. RldlaN ... Joiuo ~. Seott .. J~ IS .. .,. • 41 IIIII• ss •• 15 ~ Tho••s 18 86 .... &7 ss lchul ,, frey u 87 81 \ a.u, 16 Patri<:h IS • S6 .iJ ~- 14 (fray !I ... .7 15 ea • !6 Wllllaa •• ...... ,, Chrhtopher 8&. 31 ~c;~tt 86 11 TIWX - .. 17 aa IS 11 17 .. n CONCORDJENSIS, May 9, 1985 Page 15 SPORTS Athlete of th;e Week double to left centerfield in the deepest part of the ball park. This rally in the bottom of the eleventh inning made Alves the hero of the game. Alves started the season as a pitcher whom Coach John Audino felt it would he best to send a designated hitter to bat for. When Alves Josh Greene On Sports By JAY GROSSMAN Sports Editor Co-athletes of the week for the week ending May 9 . are Steve Alves and Tim Alibozek. Both Alves and Alibozek have been from Pittsfield, MA has named the tournament's most valuable player as he drove in five runs in t~e two victories agains Hamilton and Colgate. In ad· clition, he leads ali Dutchmen hit.ters with a .385 average. Ahbozek has been a fqur-year starter for the Dutchmen and has turned in batting averages of .329, .333, and .365 in the past three years, respectively. Recently names the team's most valuable player at the annual athletic awards dinner Alibozek also was the recipient At this time last year the Dutchmen baseball squad had had ten of their first fourteen games rained out; this year the beginning of May has brought smiles to the face of Coach John Audino as the Union . batmen entertain playoff hopes for the first time in years. With five games remaining, all on the road, the Dutchmen must enter the homestretch with the same intensity that has enabled them to record victories in nine of their last ten outings. chmen. Sophomore Rich Bartosch went the distance for his fourth victory of the .season, tops on the Union staff. Tim Alibozek was named Most Valuable Player for the tour· nament, leading the way with five RBI's. o· - of Fred Bruhn award in 1984. On May 4 and 5 the Dutchmen traveled upstate to Glens Falls E to compete in the Inaugural o Glens Falls Empire Baseball 'E. Classic. Opening round action With only a handful of games remaining, Coach Audino's squad can taste playoff fever. The Dutchmen must leave the friendly confines. of Central Park for their final road trip of the season, hopefully to return with a ticket to post-season play, either the E.C.A.C. playoffs or the N.C.A.A.'s; either will bring a smile to the face of Coach Audino. 0 s::. 0.. 0 !/') Steve Alves instrumental in the turnaround of the varsity baseball team that has given the team a 13-7 record and a possible ECAC or NCAA bid in the playoffs. This past weekend Union captured first place in the First Glens Falls Classic. This has con- tinued a winning streak which has seen the Dutchmen win nine of their last ten games. Alibozek, the senior shortstop Tim A:libozek, an electrical engineering major, is a brother at Theta Delta Chi. Steve Alves, our co-athlete of the week, has been \Mr. Clut· ch\ for Union baseball. In more than a few games this season, alves h~s provided key hits that have led to Dutchmen wins. The story was much· the same this weekend as Alves came up big for Union in the Glens Falls Classic. In the first game vs. Hamilton Alves belted a double which provided the spark for a third inning rally which keyed the Union win. In the cham· pionship gmne vs. division I Colgate, Alves hit a two-run Tim Alibozek was converted to catcher, his hitting took a complete tur· naround and he is now second on the team in hitting with a .347 average. Steve Alves, a sophomore, is a Political Science-Sociology major and is a brother at Beta Theta Pi. o saw Union pitted against the Continentals from Hamilton; in earlier action this season Hamilton defeated the Dut- chmen 5·3. Colgate faced St. Lawrence in the nightcap to vie for the final slot in the cham- pionship game. Saturday's game against the Continentals entered the seventh inning with the contest still undecided. Score notted at .five apiece, senior co-captain Tim Alibozek delivered a two out single to score sophomore Congratulations to Steve Alves and Tim Alibozek as co- athletes of the week. Ruggers: Another Victory catcher Steve Alves with the winning run. 'Alibozek was the hero of the day for Union, collecting single RBI's in the first and third on a single and a sacrifice fly. The remaining two Union runs scored on a single by junior Tom Barrett and a sacrifice fly by Andy Markopolous. Junior Ted Cannon came on in relief of senior Nat Harris to gain his third win of the year . Playoff Bound: In each of the rast two athletic seasons, Union College has been blessed with post-season teams, football and soccer in the fall, hockey and basketball in the winter, this time around the women's softball team is the first recipient of a post,season bid. This being only the second time in history the Dutchwomen have entered post-season play the pressure will certainly be on the opposing teams; if Coach Robert's squad relaxes and plays heads up they're sure to improve on their sixth place finish of 1981. Last weE:kend, the Dut- chwomen concluded their regular season by splitting a double-header with Russell Sage. The visitors took the first -game shutting out the homestanding team 3-o. Union came back to take the nightcap 5-3 to conclude the season at ten wins and three losses, their best record since 1978. By J. R. FORTUNATO Sports Staff The number one rugby team in upstate New York stampeded its waY' to victory tills past Saturday when Union beat Arsenal City by a score of 16-3 .. Though the Garnet performed without two of its great players, Jim McNeil and Rob Israel, and although Co-Captain Doug Baumgarten played on the line instead of the serum, the men in red and white showed no signs of weakness, as they dominated play as usual. The scrummers .who were so valuable to the team in the tournament last weekend continued their intense, in- tiplidating style of play by walking through the opposing serum at every scrumdown. · The players, who may have been overlooked by the unin- formed spect~tor, are Meade Summers; Steve Lipsky, Dave Blee, Jeff Albrecht, and John Friske, among others. Their outstanding performance this season, including this past weekend, cannot arid should not be underrated. The stars of Saturday's game were, to begin with, Tim \Smiley\ Riley, who scored Women's Lacrosse Final Statistics 1985 Leading Scorers Player G A Pts. Bonnie Faulkner 29 '1 30 Jane Ba,rkin 20 4 24 Lorna Rushforth 161 2 ·18 Laurie Bidstrup 12 0 12 Kathy Furst 12 0 12 Debbie Hodio 8 2 10 Su-pport Union Sports early in the game on a run that looked very r.nuch like his usual amazing stunts. Though small in stature and injured from previous encounters, \Smiley\ continued his exciting streak of scores. Secondly, there was John Friske, whO ordinarily may not be found racking up the score, as he is usually racking up his opponents with his usual quick and aggressive style of play; took one right up the middle, shaking off the weak opponents and taking ori the stronger ones without hesitation. Doug Baumgarten took the last try in, after making an impressive one- handed grab at a pass from Co- Captain Scott Collins, and successfully avoiding his would- be assassins. The three tries were capped off successfully by only two kicks-one by Dave Ble and one by Tim Hopkins. Tim surprised everyone when he failed to hit a field goal early in the game from just inside the 50 meter line. The player's ability has perhaps led his teammates into having false expectations. But what is most probably true is that the wind got hold of the ball as_ it appro~ched the goalposts. From the point of view of this author, who was Civilian Patrol • . Continued from page 3' group's six years of existence, the Guardian Angels have made six hundred citizen arrests of which one hundred resulted in detained persons being sen- ten8ed to at least six months. .right there on the field, the kick would have been good on a calmer day. Better luck. next time to the team's kicking prodigy. The Killer B's did nothing to hurt their reputation, since they beat the Arsenal Cith mixture of A's and B's in a half-game after the A side played, by a score of 4-3. Steve Cole, though usually an A side star back, played with the B side, and scored their only try of the game. The' Killer B's see this season as more of a preparation for next season than anything else, and look forward to pl~ying in Division I next fall. The Garnet gladiators look ahead with confidence to this weekend's match against R.P.I. a team they beat decisively in the Upstates 22-0. The affair, destined to be an entertaining one, is scheduled for this weekend (Par~nts' Weekend). Come out and see for yourself just how good the squad is- except for a scrimmage later this month against Schenectady Old Reds, this may very well be your last chance to see the best group of ruggers to ever play in red on Library Reld. • • Guardian Angels do not carry weapons. The main purpose of this organization is to provide positive role models for youngsters and to encourage citizen involvement and awareness in combating street crime. ·TDChi Considers . .. · Continued froin page 2 weekend when meals. aren't served at the house. 8. Pledge- philanthropy project- Brings the pledge class together while achieving a worthwhile goal. One example is to wrap Christmas presents at a children's hospital. 9. Outline Big~I:J.ttle Brother activities-Do something dif~ ferent each week. Examples include: a. Having them take study breaks together. b. Going out to dinner together. c. Planning special ac- tivities to center around holidays. Quite a few of these activities seem boring . until you start doing. them. You have to ap- proach this issue with an open mind! Against Colgate, the Dut- chmen fell behind 4-0 after two innings. In the third Union got two runs back thanks to a double by Alibozek. Another single unearned run came across for Coach Audino's squad in the sixth setting the stage for their dramatic seventh inning comeback. Reinhard Walker and Andy Markopolous led off the seventh with walks to put the tying and winning runs on base. Sophomore Steve Alves, at- tempting to bunt on the first two strikes, delivered a game- winning double to left center to capture the first-ever Empire Baseball Classic for the· Dut- The Dutchwomen travel to Herbert Lehman College this weekend with their first game slated for Friday· morning at 9:30 a.m. Their opponent, Oneonta State, owns one victory over Coach Robert's squad already this year shutting out the lady softballers 3-0 on April 24, that happened to be the first loss of the year for the Dut- chwomen. With revenge fresh on their minds the squad heads south this Thursday with a shot at NYSAIA W softball title. Good Luck to Coach Robert and her squad in their quest for yet .... another championship for Union!!! • ••••••••••••••••••• : Anyone Interested In : i CHEERLEADING ! .: for football next fall : • there will be a short • : organizational meeting on : · : Monday, May 13 : • • • at 5:00 p.m. • • • : in the Pub : : If interested but unable : • to attend, contact: • • • : Sue (6897) or Amy (6718) : .. , •••••••.•••••••••.•

' t• . ,, I '\ Page16 CONCORD!ENS!S, May 9, 1985 SPORTS ... strong individual performances ..-.--------GARNET'SCOREBOARD------. May 1-7 Tracksters Rival Albany Union 7 Siena ll MEN'S BASEBALL (13·7) BASEBALL TOURNEY Albany2 Union6 By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff In the Union men's track team's last regular season meet of the outdoor season they went head to head with the Great Danes ef Albany with Hartwick playing an insignificant role as the third team in the tri-meet. With the score close throughout the meet, the final outcome was not decided until the pole vault was finished and the 200 meter Continuing· a riValry that has· gone on for three years, Union's Scott Remillard and Albany's. Marc Mercurio went head to head as the sole competitors in the hammer throw. When the outcome was announced Mercurio had come. out on top witha throw of 181 ft. 6 inches. This close miss by Remillard set the tone for Union as they never could quite take control of the meet. Remillard's throw of 181 ft. 0 inches was good enough Senior Bob Bertagna takes off as he competes in the triple jump in recent men's track a.ction. race was run. When the dust had settled and the sun had gone down on a hot but windy day at the Albany track, the Great Danes had come out on top last Tuesday by a score of 98-92-11. Three records were set on Tuesday and several out- standing performances were turned in in an all out effort by the Dutchmen to defeat Albany for the first time in several years. Albany also had great incentive versus their rivals from Schenectady in that it was their popular coach's last meet at the Albany helm. to set a new school record and move him with Mercurio into the top three competitors going to the Nationals in the event. Union's first win came in the 4 x 100 relay as Winston Britton, Todd Allen, Cecil Bright, and George Capozzi took a full second off their time from the Penn Relays. Despite poor hand-offs they registered a time of 43.5 seconds. Remillard becarrie Union's first individual winner in the shot put as he led the Dutchmen to a sweep of the event bringing the score back to one behind Albany, at 28-27. Remillard's winning throw was 44 ft. 3 in~ ches followed by Andy McMahon's 38 ft. 1 inch, and George Capozzi's throw of 36ft. 5 inches. In the 1500 meter race Chris O'Donnell narrowly lost at the line to Albany's Ed McGill. McGill's time was 4:09.1 followed by O'Donnell's 4:09.8. The Dutchmen got a one-two punch in tne 400 meter dash from Britton and Jon Walter. Britton's winning time of 48.6 seconds was almost four seconds ahead of Walter's second place 52.0. Britton's time also set an Albany facility record breaking the old one by almost a second. Union's next win came at 100 meters as Todd Allen won a close race in 10.8 seconds. In the 800 meter race and the high jump Union was able to bring the overall score of 65-53 back to within two at 71-69. In the 800 Mike Reed ran a gutsy race holding on to first with a time of 1:58.8 followed closely .by teammates Jeff Barker and O'Donnell in third and fourth respectively. In the higl] jump, Bob Bertagna recorded a win with a jun'lp of 5 ft. 10 inches followed by Wayne Lacy also at 5 ft. 10 inches. In the pole vault Wayne Lacy set a new School record with a jump of 14 ft. 2 inches, but it wasn't good enough for a win. Joe Pastel won the event with a jump of 14 ft. 6 inches. In the next event Britton won the 200 meter dash with a time of 22.0. In the 5000 meter run, Billy McRoberts ran a 15.34.4, good enough for the win. In the mile relay Union recorded another win after the meet had been · decided. Britton, Walter, Reed and Rob Mohlar recorded a time of 3:26.9. This coming weekend the men's track team competes in the outdoor State Meet at Fredonia. Union6 Unions Hamilton 5 Colgate4 MEN'S LACROSSE (7·6) Unions Colgate 12 Siena 7 Unions WOMEN'S SOFTBALL (10·3) Unions . Russell Sage 3 Russell Sage 3 Uniono WOMEN'S LACROSSE (5·7) Union 12 Oneonta 14 Hartwick12 Wells 7 Union 7 Union 9 MEN'S TENNIS {4-4) Union6 Binghamton 5 Hartwick 3 Union 4 'GOLF {3-3) Union 650 (Hartwick l.nvy) Middlebury 421 Utica 650 Union 438 ....... ------SPORTSWEEK----~----t May9-l6 Thursday 5!9 Men's Baseball at Williams Men's Tennis at Williams 3:00p.m. 3:00p.m. Friday 5/10 Men's Baseball at Rochester 3:00p.m. a:·oo p.m. Men's Lacrosse vs. Alumni Saturday 5/11 Men's Baseball at Hobart (2) 1:00 p.m. Men's Track at NY State Meet Softball in Playoffs By SPORTS STAFF The Union College Women's Softball Team has ended its season with an excellent record of 10-3. Under.the leadership of Charlyn \Charlie\ Roberts and assistant coach Scott Stacey, the team started off the season with an eight gume winning streak and were undefeated until they met up against Oneonta on the 24th. Union suffered this first loss when Oneonta State picked up three runs in the top of the 7th to break a scoreless tie, and then held Union for the final three outs. the day, Union came back with a 5-3 victory in the second game. Due to Union's successfUl Division III record of six wins and three losses, the Dut- chwomen will advance to post- season compe.titioh in the NYSAIA W Division III Softball Championship Tournament. The team will travel to Herbert Lehman College in the Bronx this afternoon to prepare for two games tomorrow. In the first round, Union, seeded 4th, will face number five seed Oneonta State. Union will then face Oswego State or Lehmam College. Union hopesto advance to the finals which will be held on Saturday afternoon. Batmen Captu\e Glens Falls Classic After losing its next game against Hamlilton 6-1, .Union's offense. proved its strength against RPI by making up a six run deficit by the top of the 7th. The Dutchwomen went on to defeat the lady Engineers in ten innings by a' 'Score of 9-6. The team completed seasonal play last Saturday with a double- header at home against Russell Sage. Despite a 3-0 loss early in The 1985 Women's Softball Team is now in the record books fot the most consecutive wins, and the most victoriousseason since the inception of Women's Softball at Union in 1975. Congratulations and Good Luck to captains Peg Petro, Angie Miczek and -the rest of the Dutchwomen!!!. By SPORTS STAFF Union baseball is now a solid 13-7. The Dutchmen, coached by John Audino, Mark Morris and Pete Brown, have put together a strong line up, and have made the right decisions and precise times. As said by the coach ''we are hot!\ Recently Union put their 6 game winning streak on the line vs. Albany State at home. The Dutchmen made it 7 straight by beating them 7-2. The starting and winning pitcher was Steve Alves .(now 2-1). Also making appearances were Senior Nat Harris and Sophomore Rich Bartosch. The combined staff allowed 6 hits. As for the offense Union had 9 hits, 2 contributed each by Steve Alves, Pete Cohan, and by freshman Jim Reynolds. This was Union's last home game. Next up was division one Siena. Starting on the mound was Ted Cannon. Teddy found himself pitching against 11 men, the nine from Siena and the two umpires, Union could not catch a break as a superb diving grab by freshman Glenn Kata was called as trapping the ball. Ted Cannon up to that point had the batters swinging at shadows by changing speeds · and confusing the hitters. But one break led to another and Union fotmdthemselves down 6- 0 in the second. With Coach Audino fuming and the bench upet concentration was broken. Ken Horan was next on the mound and shut down Sienna· keeping Union in the game in spite of some very bad calls. Union fought back to a 6-4 game with key hits by Alex Rita, a 2 RBI hit by Tom Barrett, a solo homerun by Glenn Kata and an RBI double by Steve Alves scoring Andy Markoodus. Finishing the mound was Jay Wood and Tim Valacovic, each doing a fine job, hut Union lost ll.U. Exceptional performances were contributed by Andy Markoolus, who had 3 hits, with Pete Cohan, Steve Alves, Glen Kata and Jim Reynolds all contributing 2 hits each hit Siena 11-10. Unions win streak ended at seven. Finally this past weekend Union participated in the first Inagural Glens Falls Empire Baseball Classic with their opening-round game vs. Hamilton. Starting pitcher Nat Harris did an outstanding job, but some breaks for Hamilton made the score 5-5; thus, Teddy Cannon came into relieve Harris. Teddy kept Hamilton scoreless with Union coming up to bat in the last half of the 7th inning. With the hot Steve Alves getting a base hit and stealing second, up to the plate came Senior co-captain Tim Alibozek. Tim hit an uncatchable hard blast to deep center field scoring Steve Alves easily. Union won 6-5 and advanced to the finals vs. DiVision I Colgate. Outstanding per- formance by Steve Alves (2 hits). and Tim Alibozek 2 hits and RBis. The winning pitcher was Teddy Cannon whose record was improved to 4-2. Pitching against Colgate was Rich Bartosch. Rich strugg_led as Colgate capitalized and scored two runs in the first and second innings. With needed encouragement from his teammates Bartosch went out and threw 5 scoreless innings, behind him was some of the best defense seen all year. Union turned 3 double plays with Andy Markoplus at third, Tim Alibozek at short, Tom Barret at second and Pete Cohan at first. Meanwhile Union scored three runs off a two run double Voted MVP of the tourney was Senior Tim Alibozek with 5 RPis; and a splendid glove on the field. Each player ·received director mugs and the coaches Audio, Morris and Brown received director chairs for their excellent coaching ]ob. Voted MVP by the team was Steve Alves and Tim Alibozek Union is now hoping for post season play, but still has four more tough games in their regular season. by Tim Alibozek and a hustling Pete Cohan scored on a wild pitch. Union was down 4-3 with their last ups of the night. Andy Markopulus led off with a walk followed by another walk by Reinhard Walker. Then once again with the same situation as ::= last against Colgate Steve Alves ~ was at the plate. Steve again ~ haunted Colgate by hitting the '\0 game winning double to deep Q. left center scoring Andy and the ~ speedy Walker with no trouble. ~ Union did it again, and won the .s:::: • Support Union Sports! tourney. Bartosch improved his o. ' record to a.respectful4-1. thanks to his teammates never ending efforts. Senior Peggy Petro takes a strong cut in action vs. Russell Sage. Petro fini~hed the season with a .~54 average.

IFC the ad· nization our ~d for a a the the actions gonistic the of the well to the by theiFC Virnich binovitz 'laniga~ any for an~ AEP1 of the we any was s. Con- s of the will that all proud to ofAEP1 Box tne three ere in .,.:. ',.. ' ·' , ~ ~.;.'t; \¢' ' ·> .. ·' · .. ,~, '#'\ . . :._·.;;.. ·. __ ,,, .. f' ... ~-:::: --~-- . :/ -~ .· .- { ~--· '.;t - ..

Page2A PARENTS' WEEKEND, May 9, 1985 Parents'VVeekend 0 •• Coming Attractions ___ ......_ _ _.. .. Theatre-\ ---------- God. It opens tonight and runs through Parents Weekend, with additional performances May 14, 16, 17, and 18. Despite what yeu may have heard, the only controversia1l thing about God is the integrity of its recent publicity stunts. It is one of . Woody Allen's earliest plays and it often recalls Pirandello's Six Characters In Search Of An Author, and Allen's own \The Kugelmass Episode\ and The Purple Rose Of Cairo in its search for the dividing line between real life characters and situations and fictional ones. It's a play within a 'play about some desperate Greeks looking to win a drama contest and their never-ending quest for the perfect conclusion. Yes,· it raises questions about the existence of God, and yes, there are some casual, comedic references to sex, but the religious implications are not very strong and I've heard spicier sex jokes on Three's Company. It is, however, terrifically funny and definitely worth seeing. Tickets are $3.00 for students with I.D., $4.00 for faculty, and $5 .. 00 for the general public. Sugar Babies, for thost uninterested in on-campus activities, is currently playing at Proctor's Theatre in Schenectady, with weekend performances Friday and Saturday nights at 8:00 p.m., and Sunday at 2:00 and 7:00 p.m. The long-running . Broadway musical features Mickey Rooney heading the same cast that earned the show eight · Tony nimir1ations, in· eluding Best Musical. Sugar Babies celebrates the classic days of early vaudevillian burlesque, with comedy routines and lavish musical production numbers. Ticket prices are $25, $22, and $15. Call 346-620~ for availability. Union College Speakers Forum pr.esents ------- Mu·sic-----~- THE COMEDY OF STEVE LANDESBERG! I Landesberg has appeared on \Barney Mil:ler,'' The Tonight Show, Late Nite with David Letterman, and has performed at over 60 colleges! f •d M . 1 .. Q ,r1ay, ay 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel Tickets: Only $3 for Union students & parents Tickets are going fast so don't wait! Also: Don't miss the opening show with Union's musical talent, Jim Havard! \Landesberg is the funniest of all! \--David Brenner Welcome parents! A look back in history ... The Union College Choir, newly merged from the separate Men and Women's Glee Clubs, will sing in Memorial Chapel Saturday night at 8:15. The program consists of eleven numbers, beginning with Lodovico da Viadana's \Exsultate Justi\ and ending in - ''The College Song.'' In be- tween they will cover everything from Handel to Aaron Copland, to a mock-Bach piece called \My Bonnie Lass She Smelleth\. All are invited. The Dutch Pipers, fresh from a delightful concert last week, display their ever-clever wit and unbeatable vocal prowess at 1:00 p.m. on the steps of Memorial Chapel. They put on their tuxedos again later that night, to perform at the Parents' Dance to be held at the Ramada Inn in downtown First Parents' Weekend Offers Varied Program reprinted from Concordiensis, Friday, April20, 1951 By HERBERT fiLLER This weekend Union College is playing host to the parents of Union students. This, the first annual Parents Weekend, is being sponsored by the ad- ministration in conjunction with the Delphic Society and the entire student body. The primary purpose for the weekend is to familiarize parents with the college as it truly is, without the rush and trappings of commencement day. Prepared Full Schedule The Delphics, an honorary society, volunteered their services when the ad- ministration sought a group to take charge of the weekend. It was felt the Delphics as official college hosts, would be in the best position to sponsor the weekend. They have prepared a full schedule of events. The parents are requested to register at Hale House Friday evening and Saturday morning until1: 00 p.m. At this time they will be given information concerning the college and they will be directed as to the whereabouts of their sons. The A.F.R.O.T.C. unit will present a special dress parade at 1:30 assisted by the college band. Following this there will be a number of athletic events with the jayvee lacrosse team, varsity track team and football squad participating. Mountebanks to Perform At 5:00 Saturday afternoon President and Mrs. Davidson wiU officially welcome the parents at a tea in Hale House. At .this time. the. cup will be , awarded to the group on campus having the largest number of parents in at- tendance. Following the tea there will be a question and answer period, where the parents will be able to receive information concerning the college and the draft situation in regard to students. In the evening the Moun- tebanks will present. a special performance of · \The Glass Menagerie\ which will be open to all parents. Dr. Norman B. Johnson, headmaster of the Park School, Indianapolis, Inc. will be the guest. speaker at the Sunday morning chapel service. In the afternoon Dr. Elmer Tidmarsh will give an organ concert in - Memorial Chapel. Activities to be Open All student activities will be open for the parents Saturday. The A.LE.E. society will also hold a guided tour of the eng~~ering building. The Rathskeller will be open for inspection from 9:00 a.m. to 3: 30 p.m. and will be ready to serve snacks from 3:30 on. The college book store will be open, in addition to its regular morning hours, from l:OO __ to 3:30 Saturday afternoon. Alpha Epsilon Pi (AE1T) , Uni~n's newest fraternity, will hold its first party Friday at 10:30 p.m. at the Ramada Inn on Erie Boulevard and Nott Street. Tickets, pre-sale and at the door, are $2~oo for students and $~.00 for parents. All are invited to attend. The even1ng features $1.00 drink specials, 25¢ twelve-ounce drafts of Michelob and Molson, and dancing to tunes spun by OJ Jay \The Ray\ Du,bson. All proceeds go to Cancer Care. Schenectady. There will be a Concert of Chamber Music on Saturday morning at 10:00. The concert, which will be held in the Arts Building's newly constructed Concert Hall, is free and open to everyone, as are all concerts listed here. The Union College Concert Band can be heard at 12:30 Saturday afternoen in Library Plaza. The twenty-plus member student group will perform show tunes, marches, suites, and movie music. The Union College Jazz Ensemble is set to perform during ·the President's Reception Saturday afternoon in Jackson's Gardens. The reception is scheduled from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. PARENTS' WEEKEND COFFEEHOUSE Friday, May 10 • 8:30 psm. featu.ring MARK RUST tickets on sale now $1.5 0 / .,. The Film Committee sponsors Places in the Heart this weekend, a film which earned Sally Field the Best Actress Oscar this year. The film was also nominated for seven other awards, including Best Picture. Field plays a penniless widow struggling to save her family and farm during the Depression. Show times- Friday, Saturday, and Sunday are 7, 9, and 11 p.m.

ly playing eatre in weekend lday and 8:00 p.m., I and 7:00 lg-running l features eading the !d the show :ttions, in· ::al. Sugar the classic .udevillian comedy h musical rs. Ticket nd $15. Call lity. in Library JSmember l perform es, suites, ege Jazz o perform resident's afternoon :lens. The dfrom4:30 'this PARENTS' WEEKEND, May 9, 1985 . PageJA President's Welcome Dear Parents: Welcome to Union College on this Parents' Weekend. With the long awaited coming of spring we begin again to delight in the beauty of the plantings on the campus. I hope that you will be able to participate in the many events that have been planned. . The m,ain purpose of your coming to campus, I am sure, is to be reunited with your daughter or Vice-President D'Andrea's Hello Dear Parents: It's a pleasure to welcome ·y0u, on behalf of the facu1ty and the academic program, to Parents' Weekend '85. Parents' Weekend provides a special opportunity for you to get a glimpse of Union's programs. I would like to call your ~ttention to those events that feature the academic life at the College- Department Open Houses, the panel on Teclmology in the New Liberal Arts, the Class Sessio.ns and the Weekend Seminars~as they highlight the central purpose for which your sons and daughters are at Union. For us at the College, this weekend also provides a special opportWlity, that of getting to meet the parents of the students we have come to know through our classes and other College activities. We invite you to ask questions, to share your con- cerns with us and to come to Widerstand the unique nature of the Union education; We hope you enjoy your visit a:nd that we Vice President D'Andrea may play some part in making it a worthwhile occasion f.or you. Sincerely, ThomasD' Andrea Vice President From another-President: I - \ Forum s Greeting Dear Parents: I would like to take this op- portunity to welcome you to our campus. I hope during your Again, welcome. Sincerely, Steven I. Benson, President Stud~nt Forum-P.S.-Happy Mother's Day! short stay here, you will feel both the fr:.iendly and in- tellectual atmosphere which we, as students, benefit from all year. Our students serving on the Parents' Weekend Com- c: 10 E. . :s: ' ,.,, ' ' 0. co mittee have W<Jrked hard to give w you a well-rounded taste of life ~ -' at Union College. Be sure to ::.:.. take advantage 0f some of these .o events; you won't be disap- ~ pointed. £, Steven Benson HAPPY DAY! ., . ' ' son; but as a part of the oc- casion we have attempted to design a program which will give you some insight into the academic and soCial en- vironment in which our students live while at Union. It is our pleasure to have you as a part of our collllllunity this weekend and I hope that you will enjoy the visit here. Yours Sincerely, JohnS. Morris President Preside.nt Morris Parents' Weekend Committee Chairs Student Chairperson · Jennie Lea ~85 Administrative Co-Chairs Mrs. Lorraine Marra Academic Chair Dance Contest Coordinator Physical Plant Liaisons Dean Robert Massa Prof. George Butterstein Prof. Frank Calabria Brendan Cassidy '85 Peter Clouse '85 Security Liaison Food Service Liaisons Registration Chairs Publicity Chairs Athletic Chair Administrative Representative Christine Siler '86 Suzanne Jasper '88 Debbie Levine '85 Mikaela Sawtelle ,86 Joel Rosenfield ,86 Stacy Fassberg '86 J acquie :>unbar '85 Gayle Rosenfeld '85 Mr. James Schaeffer Ms. Ann.Lowery JSU Presents Haddad By MITCHELL J. STEIN Staff In seeking a lasting peace in the Middle East, one stumbling block is. the problem of the Palestinian Arab refugees. Few people, however-in or out of the UN-ever mention the fact that there existed a much greater munber of Jewish refugees from Arab countries such as Morocco, Iraq, Algeria, Egypt, Tunisia, Yemen, Syria, Libya, Lebanon, and others, who were forced to flee their homes between 1948 and 1951 due to an Arab reaction to the creation of the State of Israel. These Jews were absorbed by the new nation and today constitute over half of Israel's population and number over two million . worldwide. Israel did not allow the Jewish refugees to remain in refugee camps the way its Arab neighbors apathetically treat the Palestinian Arab refugees. The mass media has generally ignored these issues. Dr. Heskell Haddad, a native of Bagdad, Iraq, who was forced to leave with his f!Ullily in 1951, is a practicing op- thamologist and eye surgeon in New York City. He is also president of the World Organization for Jews from Arab countries and of the American Committee for Rescue and Resettlement of Ir~qui Jews, the aim~ of which are as follows: 1-to create greater awareness of the Jewish refugees from Arab countries; 2--to have their rights well represented in any Middle East peace plan; 3-the restoration of their cultural and religious assets left behind in Arab countries; 4--the full compensation for all of their communal and private property which was stolen, frozen, or conficatedz and for all the in- juries suftered by Jews as a result of discrimination and persecution by the Arab countries~ 5-equal rights or representation before the world forums (as has been accorded to . the delegates representing Palestinian Arab refugees); and 6-the securing of basic human rights for those relatively few Jews remaining in the Arab countries who now live as second-class citizens. In his efforts to achieve these goals, Dr. Hadda met with late President Sadat in Egypt in June 1978, prior to Camp David and he frequently travels to Israel to meet with officials· there. JSU will be presenting Dr. Haddad to speak on these issues this Saturday at 1 p.m. in SS115. All students and their patents are invited to attend. . ~-...-c-~-a-a_u_o.-.a-~-EI~~-a...... Parents &· Students * Parents: Come to share information about your field * Students: Come to gain career . information and advice SUNDAY, MAY 12 11:00-12: 00-~Medicine ......................... SS016 11:00-12: OO~-Business- Finance ................ SS012 12:15-1:15~-Law ....................•......... 55016 12:15-1 :15--Cross Section •...................... 55014 ( Huma·n Services, Educational, Technical) Specia I guests include parents who are in •• ·• • Medicine--Private Practice Cardiologist, Director of Nuclear Medicine, Professor of Diagnostic Radiology at the Yal.e University School of Medicine. • Business/Finance--Professor at Harvard Business School and International consultant, Vice President .of Personnel in a large corporation. • Law--Law Partner in International Finance and General Corporate Law. • Education--Early Childhood Teacher. Q) '0 0

·:· ., '' I I i. Page4A c Ill E :5: 0 aJ Ill ~ ~ >- .0 .E 0 .c c. I.. Ill .0 :::1 I.. (.') \C ·:; Ill 0 > .0 0 0 .c a. ... Ill .c :::1 ... (.') '0 > Ill 0 > .0 0 .... 0 .c a. ·\' ·\··' PARENTS' WEEKEND, MaY, 9, 1985 Clockwise from top right: courtyard in front of West College; pla-ns for the new Student Center; walking plaza downtown on Jay St.; recently renovated dance studio in the Arts Building; Friendly's on Nott Terrace; con- struction on the . new Machine lab. >- ~ (/) c E Ill ~ >- I.. I.. Ill ..J >- .0 0 +- 0 .c c. (/) Ill .r:.!: .c u Ill c .c a. Ill 0 >- .c .E 0 .c a. 1.. Ill .0 :::1 1.. (.') \0 ·:; Ill 0 > .0 0 .... 0 .c a.

Page4A c 10 E ~ Ill Ql .;£ ::E >- ..Q 0 .... 0 .s::. 0. .... (I) ..Q ::J '- (!) \0 > 10 0 >- .c .E 0 .s::. 0. '- <II ..Q ::J '- (!) \0 > tO 0 >- .c 0 +- 0 .c a. ; i [d ' PARENTS' WEEKEND,May9, 1985 Clockwise from top right: courtyard in front of West College; plans for the new Student Center; walking plaza downtown on Jay St.; recently renovated dance studio in the Arts Building; Friendly's on Nott Terrace; con- struction on the new Machine lab. E fO ~ >- .... .... fO ....I >- ..c 0 ..... 0 .s::: a. tJ) fO Ol .s::: u <II c .s::: a. ro 0 >- ..c 0 .... 0 .s::: a. .... <II ..c ;:, '- (!) \0 ·;:; ro 0 >- .0 0 - 0 .c: a.

>- _.)/. 1/) c 6 m ~ >- I.. I.. m ..J >- .0 0 +- 0 .c 0. 1/) m .'.!: .c u Q) c .c 0. Ill 0 >- .0 .E 0 .c 0. I i PARENTS' WEEKEND, May 9, 1985 Page SA Friday,. May 10 PARENTS' WEEKEND '85 ------·- 1 - The 40th anniversary of Sta~e II. 3rd floor Came!;!ie Lobby the end of the War in carne~ie Hall Europe - a History 5 p.m.-7 p.m. 1, 9, u p.m. 8:o_o p.m. 8:oop.m. 8:30p.m. 8:30p.m. 10:00 p.m. Parents' Re~isttation Picl< up re~lstration packet. name ta~s. and Uc~ets for special events Film Committee Presents: Places in the Heart _ Alumni l.ilcrosse Gam~ SpeaRers' forum presents: Comediafl Steve Landesber~ with'a special Union talent to open the show ss 016 Astroturf Memorial Chapel MountebanRs presents: God Non Memorial by. Woody Allen Coffeehouse Entertainment Cabaret Room featurin~ M()rR Rust Came~ie Hall Circle K Square Dance Library Plaza 4:3o-5:3o p.m. 4:3op.m. Department Panel -Reagan-The Second Time SS 115 AroW?d· Some Economic Perspectives - a discussion with Econom- -ics Department faculty ~ The Japan Experience - students retumih~ from Union's first term in - Japan share slides. photos and impressions President's Reception for parents. students. faculty and staff with the Union Jazz Ensemble performing Christian Fellowship Bible Study fox Residence Hall Loun~e Jackson's Garden (alt: Hale House) 4th floor Loun~e came!!1ie Hall Sa,turday,, May 11 5, 6, 7:00p.m. Dutchmen's Night: three seatings - reservations required. 3 70-6051 Dutch Hollow Pub 9 a..m.-1~ Noon 9 a.m.:-12 Noon 9 a.m.-1·2 Noon 9 a.m.-12 Noon 9:15a.m.- t0:45a.m. 9:3o-H:oo a.m. to:oo-tt:ooa.m. 10 a.m.-s p.m. 11:ooa.m. 11:'30 a.m. 12 Noon-2 p.m. t2:3G-1:30 p.m. 12:30 p.m. 12:45 p.m~ t:oop.m. 1:00 p.m. 1:3o-2:30 p.m. * 2:3o-3:30 p.m. 2:3o-3:30 p.m. 2:3o-4:30 p.m. 2:45-3:45 p.m. 3:30-4:30 p.m. parents' Registration .. Pick up re~istration packet. name ta~sand tickl;!ts for special events. Enjoy coffee and donuts with the Student Affairs Staff in Strauss.Loun~e carnegie Lobby Special Collections· Section Shaffer Library of Library '?pen for visitors Admissions int?tviews for P>ecker Hall sons and dau~hters of Union parents (app_ointments 370·6112) Financial Aid Open House: P>ecker Hall staff will be available to answer questions Arts Department Open Huuse with refreshments and Print Exhibit Herman & Rose !)urns Student Forum Atrium Arts 5uilding Parents' Committee Meetin~ Lower Lounge. Academic Departments Open Ho\:lse - Biolo~y ~Chemistry - Mechanical BnQineering · (10a.m.)· Student Chamber Music Recital Campus Store Open Prize Day Award Ceremony Picnic to benefit Union Day care with special auction to follow at 12:30 p.m. Photo Club Exhibit Academic Departments Open House - Psycholo~y ~Computer Center Cqncert Band 1SU sponsors: Sephardic Jews- A presentation by Dr. HesRel Haddad Dutch Pipers. Union's 12.- voice male sin~inQ Qroup Men's Ru~by vs. RPI Technolof!Y in the New Liberal Arts. a panel discussion with President Morris presidin~? Class Sessions in selected Academic Disciplines WRUC Open House ConCUlTent Outdoor Activities - Father/Dau~hter. Mother/ Son Tennis TbJ . .lfnament (si~n up on pre- re~istration card) - Equipment available for Softball. Volleyball. and Soccer games - Frisbee tournament -Historical 'fours of Union: Tours be~in with a video- tape presentation on the Architectural HeritaQe of Union (si~n up at registration) Hale House S&E Bldg. 3rd Floor S&E Bldg. 3rd Floor S&E P>ld~. Rm. 2.05 · Performing- Arts Studio. Arts Bid~. Nott Memorial Memorial Chapel Chester Arthur Court __..- Nott Memorial Psycholo~y Bid~. Peschel Center Library Plaza ss 115 Memorial Chapel Steps Library field Memorial Chapel Rooms and Classes TM 3rd floor. Carnegie Hall Alumni Gym Tennis Courts Intramural Office Alumni Gym Richmond Lawn . Leave from Banquet Room. Carnegie Hall 7:oop.m. 7, 9, ll:OOp.m. 8:30p.m. s:oo, 10:00 p.m. 8:15p.m. 9:30-1:30 a.m. Modem Languages Department presents: fiesra Espanola: an evening of .Spanish music. son~ and dance Film Committee presents: Places in the Heart Mountebanks presents God by Woody Allen Student Cabaret Show Union College Choir: Parents' WeeRend bebut Dance/Concert with hors d'oeuvres and cash bar. FeaturinQ the Ron Partch - Lew Pettys Orchestra (purchase advance tickets in Carnegie Hall- $2. $3 at the door) Arts Buildin~ Dance Studio 55016 Nott Memorial Cabaret Room. Came!!1ie Hall Memorial Chapel Ramada Inn Nott Street Sunday, May 12- Happy Mother's Day 8:45a.m.- 12 Noon 9:ooa.m. 10 a.m.-2 p.m . t0:3oa.m.- t2 Noon 11:00 a.m.- 12 Noon u:oo a.m.- 12 Noon 12:15-1:15 p.m. 12:15-1:15 p.m. Religious Services 8:45 and 11:15 a.m. Catholic Mass. refreshments in School Hall followin\11 . Mass 9:30a.m. Service of Holy Communion The Rev. 1-Iu~h Nevin. Protestant Chaplain. officiatin~? 10:15 a.m. Ecumenical Worship Service The Rev. Hugh Nevin. Protestant Chaplain. presidin't): Sister Joan Vlaun. O.P.. Catholic Chaplain . speaRin~?: Prot HuQh Allen Wilson. organist Early MorninQ Jo~ (Prof. T. Bick. leader) Mother's Day Brunch (reservations required: 2 seatinQs at .10 a.m. and 12 noon) Jewish Student Union Brunch Career Panels - Session 1 -Business -Medicine Union Women Research Women: a panel discussion of several student theses on the status of women Career Panels- Session II -Law -Finance - Cross-section oi Careets Dance Ensemble Performance St JohA the Evan~elist Church Hale House Lower Lounge Memorial Chapel Meet in !rant of Arthur Statue Hale House/Old Chapel Kosher Kitchen West Colle~e 55012 ss 016 ss 014 ss 016 ss 012 ss 014 Performing Arts Studio. Arts BuildinQ -Tours of Schenectady. Leave from $Jc LISTOFSAMPLECLASSESFOR ~ponsored by the Union St. !;late · STUDENTS AND PARENTS Chamber of Commerce ENGLISH-''Comedy\-Prof. Peter J-!einegg, As9ociate Professor of COMPUTER SCIENCE-\Computer Graphics Dlsplay\-Prof. {SiQO Up at registration) English. LectUre, \Why do we laugh? Folir Theories of Comedy,\ George Williams, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Several Humanities Building, Rm.ll5. Student.s.StelnmetzHaU 101. Dance Club and Arts Club Memorial Chapel CHEMISTRY-\Artiflcial Kidney\ -Prof. Leslie Hull, Associate BiOLOGY-\Ac!d Rain\-Prof. PeterToblessen, Professor of Biology. Professor.of Chemistry. Science and Engineering Bldg., Rm. N116. Bailey Hall 'JJJ7. present: Arts festival'85 MODERN LANGUAGES-\Masterlng Spoken Frencb\-Prof. CIVIL ENGINERlNG-\Homes Buildings aild Engineering Prin- Frank Coppay'\Alllllstant Professor of French. HUmanities Bldg., Rm. clplee\-Prof. GObert Harlow, Professor of ClvU Engineering. But- Weel:lend Seminars. a no. terfte1dHall,Rm.300 ECONOMics-Economics Majors Present Short Presentations on POLITICAL SCIENCE- PoUtlcal Science Majora Major Senior chance to see Union faculty • Tbelr Senior Tbeees. Prof. Dwight Phaup, Professor of Economics. 'l'be8M -Prof. Cbarles Tidmlrcll. Aaloclaie Professor ol PoUtlcal and students in action. SooialSclenceeBldg.SS112. Sctence.SoclaiScleocesl13. ~~~-----\~~~.-MG~~-\~~~II~-··H--\1BKBM·~~~--~~~Hm~~M4~~--aM~~~----~----~~~~~~-~------~--~~~

SSC'fl( >- ,:,(. rJl c::: E ro :::.::: >- .... .... ro .....1 >- .D 0 .... 0 .c c. rJl ro Ol .c u Q) c::: .c c. ro Q >- .D 0 .... 0 .c c. I PARENTS' WEEKEND, May 9, 1985 Page 5A ~-·----......---·-·---·PARENTS' WEEKEND 'SS ____ ,_._..._ ___ _..._..\\' Friday, May tO 5 p.m.-7 p.m. 1, 9, 11 p.m. s:oo p.m. s:oo p.m. 8:30p.m. s:30 p.m. 10:00 p.m. Parents' Registration Picl< up registration pacl;>et. name tags. and tickets for special events Film Committee Presents: Places in the Heart Alumni Lacrosse Game Speakers' Forum presents: Comedian Steve Landesber~ with· a special Union talent to open the show Mountebanl<s presents: God by Woody Allen Coffeehouse Entertainment featuring Marl< Rust Circle K Square Dance Saturday, May 11 Carne'i!ie Lobby ss 016 Astro~urf Memorial Chapel Nott Memorial Cabaret Room Carnegie liall Library Plaza 9 a.m.-1 p.m. Parents' Re~istration.. Carne~ie Lobby PieR up re~istration pacl<ct. name tags and ticl<ets for special events. Enjoy coffee and donuts with the Student Affairs Staff in Strauss Lounge 9 a.m.-12 Noon Special Collections Section Shatter Library of Library 9pen for visitors 9 a.m.-12 Noon Admissions interviews for Becl<er Hall sons and daughters of Union parents (appointments 3 70-6112) 9 a_m.-12 Noon Financial Aid Open House: Becl<er Hall staff will be available to an!'l'Wer questions 9 a.m.-12 Noon Arts Department Open House with refreshments and Print Exhibit Herman & Rose Burn~ Student Forum Atrium Arts Building 9:15a.m.- t0:45a.m. 9:3o-ll:OO a.m. Parents' Committee Meeting Lower Lounge. to:oo-t t :oo a.m. 10 a.m.-5 p.m. n:ooa.m. 11:30 a.m. 12 Noon-2 p.m. t2::so-t:3o p.m. t2:30 p.m. 12:45 p.m~ t:oop.m. t:oop.m. 1::so-2:30 p.m. * 2:3o-3:30 p.m. 2:3o-3:30 p.m. 2:3o-4:30 p.m. 2:45-3:45 p.m. Academic Departments Open House -Biology -Chemistry - Mechanical Engineering (lo a.m.) Student Chamber Music Recital Campus Store Open Prize Day Award Ceremony Picnic to benefit Union Day Care with special auction to follow at 12:30 p.m. Photo Club Exhibit Academic Departments Open House - Psychology -Computer Center Concert Band JSU sponsors: Sephardic Jews- A presentation by Dr. Hesl<el Haddad Dutch Pipers. Union's 12- voice male singing group Men's Rugby vs. RPI Jechnolo!iJY in the New Liberal Al15. a panel discussion with President Morris presiding Class Sessions in selected Academic Disciplines WRUC Open House Hale House S&E Bldg. 3rd Floor S&E Bldg. 3rd Floor S&E Bldg. Rm. 205 Performing Arts Studio. Arts Bldg. Nott Memorial Memorial Chapel Chester Arthur Court Nott Memorial Psycholo~y Bldg. Peschel Center Library Plaza 55 115 Memorial Chapel Steps Library Field Memorial Chapel Rooms and Classes TBA 3rd floor. Carne'i!ie Hall Alumni Gym Tennis Courts Intrc1mural Ottice Alumm Gym Richmond Lawn Leave from Banquet Room. CdrneQie Hall Leave from Union St. gate Memorial Chapel 4:30--5:30 p.m. 4:30p.m. 5, 6, 7:00p.m. 7:00p.m. 7, 9, 11:00 p.m. B:3o p.m. s:oo. 10:00 p.m. 8:15p.m. 9:30-1:30 a.m. - The 40th anniversazy of the end of the War in Europe- a History Department Panel - ReClf!G!I-The Second Time Around· Some Economic Perspectives - a discussion with Econom- ics Department Faculty - The Japan Experience - students returning from Union's first term in Japan share slides. photos and impressions President's Reception for parents. students. faculty and staff with the Union Jazz Ensemble performinQ Christian Fellowship Bible Study Dutchmen's Night: three seatin<;;~s - reservations required. 3 70-6051 Modem Languages Department presents fiesru Espunula: an .-vemnf O/ ~jXlnL~h music. sont;' unci dane.: Film Committee presents: Places in rhc Hear£ Mountebant<s presents God by Woody Allen Student Cabctret Show Umon College Choir Parents' Weel<end Debut Dance/Concert with hors d'oeuvres and cash bar. Featuring the Ron Partch - Lew Pettys Orchestra (purchase advance ticl<ets in Carnegie Hall - $2. $3 at the dour) Stage II. 3rd floor carnegie Hall ss 115 Fox Residence Hall Lounge JacRson·s Garden (alt Hale House) 4th Floor Lounge carnegie Hall Dutch Hollow Pub Arts Building Dance Stud1o SS016 Nott Memorial Cabaret Room. Carnegie Hall Memorial Chapel Ramada Inn Nott Street Sunday, May 12 - Happy Mother's Day 8:45 a_m.- 12 Noon 9:ooa.m. to a.rn.-2 p.m. 10:30 a.m.- 12 Noon 11:00 a.m.- 12 Noon 11:00 a.m.- 12 Noon 12:15-1:15 p.m. t2:ts-1:15 p.m. Reli~ious Services 8:45 and 1 1:15 a.m. Catholic Mass. re!reshments in School Hall !ollowing Mass St John the Evangehst Church 9:30a.m. Hale House ServiCe of Holy Lower Lounge Communion The Rl\l HuQh Nevin. Protestant Chaplain. officiating 10:15 a.m. Memorial Chapel E-:umenical Wor::.h1p Service The Rev. Hu1,1h Nevin. Protestant Chaplam. presiding: Sister Joan Vlaun. OP .. Catholic Chaplain . speaRing: Prof Hu~h Allen Wilson. organist Early Morning Jog (Prof. T. Bick leaden Mother's Day Brunch (reservatlons required. 2 seatings at 10 a m and 12 noon) Jewish Student Union Brunch Career Panels - Session 1 -Business -Medicine Union Women RcSl'arch Women: a panel d1scussion o! several student theses on the status of women Career Panels- Sesston II -Law -finance - Cross-section o! Careers Dance Ensemble Performance Meet in !ront of Arthur Statue Hale House/Old Chapel Kosher Kitchen West College 55012 55 016 55014 ss 016 55 012 550!4 Performing Arts Studio. Arts BuildinQ Jlc LIST OF SAMPLE CLASSES FOR STUDENTS AND PARENTS l I I ENGLISH-\COOledy\-Prof. Peter Heinegg, Associate Professor of COMPUTER SCIENCE-\Computer Graphics D!splay\-Prof. English. Lecture, \Why do we laugh? Four Theories of CDmedy,\ George Wllllams, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Severn! Humanities Building, Rrn- 115. Students. Steinmetz HalllOl. CHEMISTRY-\Artificial Kidney\ -Prof. Leslie Hull, Associate BIOLOGY-\Acld Rain\-Prof Peter Toblessen, Professor of Biology Professor of Chemistry. Science and Engineering Bldg., Rm. Nl16 Bailey Hall 'JIYT. MODERN LANGUAGES-\Mastering Spoken French\-Prof CIVU, ENGINERING-\Homes. Buildings and Engineering Prln- Franlt Coppay. Asslstllnt Professor of French. HUmanities Bldg., Rm. ciples\-Prof_ GObert Harlow. Profll!ISOf of ClvU Engineering But- 110. terfleld Hall, Rm. 300 ECONOMIC8--Economics Majors Present Short Presentations on POLITICAL SCIENCE- PoUtical Science Ma)Oii! MaJor Senior Their Senior Tbet!e!. Prof. Dwight Phaup, Professor of Economics. The8e.ll -Prof. Cllarlm Tidrnarch, AIJIOdate Professor of Political Social Science!! Bldg. SSI12. Science. SOcial Sdeoce~~ll3.

'!: I ' i Page6A PARENTS' WEEKEND, May 9, 1985 • College Press Service --- Sf Eil'-l 'BS l<cCK'-r' Ml.,j. 1'.\ EW::;) • 1\1 EA VJHe.Re'~ MY oTHeR ~ocl<? aND MY ~HiRT?! To Mom, ·A bouquet of words. it tft M DRAGON GARDEN Chinese and American Restaurant ' 120 Mohawk Ave. • Scotia, N.Y. (518) 377 ·6637 ''One of tile Top 10-Restaurants\ \Without a doubt, this is the BEST CHINESE Restaurant in the Capital District\ - Knickerbocker News 120 Mohawk Ave. Scotia All Major Credit Cards Accepted _..-.1i~Bcl!t~ ~~ UnderNew l!/~~ 'lfft5J,} Ownership V RESTAURANT ANO LOUNGE 8 1 8 UNION STftEaT SCHENECTADY. NY 12305 PH. 37<1l·OS11 ENJOY Fine Dining and Gracious Hospitality in the Su\oundings of a 19th Century Renovated Church FOR RESERVATIONS374-0511 Just Down the -Street- 616 Union, Schenectady, N.Y Serving Dinner .Friday & Saturday Til Midnight Sunday Brunch from 11 a.m.-2 p.m. .. ... To express your love. Cross pen and pencil set$ make lovely gifts on mother's special day. In gold filled and sterling silver. ' CROss· SINCE 1846 *50% Off list price Thurs., Fri., Sat. CAM,PUS STORE *From stock, no special order~ Sorry, no rainchecks SEBASTIAN INTRODUCES THE CUTS THAT MAKE IT EN. located on corner of Broadway & HamUton S.t. . 382-7956- Student Discounts with Gari, Theresa STUDENT SPECIAL May 9-19 $6.oo Manicures $12.00 Haircuts * We carry a full line of Nexus and Sebastian hair c~re products. 25% off re.ta il with student I D. · · SUGI JAPANESE RESTAURANT The Finest Japanese Cuisine in the Capital District! 1579 State Street. Schenectady *We Have Sushi Bar* Sushi • Sashimi Sukiyaki • Tempura Teriyaki, etc. , ~.,._]. ~ ... s- Lunches Monday-Friday • Noon-2:30P.M. ~ Dinners now 7 nights a week 5-10 P.M. • Sunday-Thursday . Japanese Dishes cooked at your table. 5-11 P.M. • Friday & Saturday Sake & Japanese beer NY Style Deli WATCH FOR OUR NEW OUTDOOR CAFE! NEW HOURS Open Mon.-Fri. 8 a.m.-8 p.m. Saturday atB a.m •. -5 p.m. 160 Jay St. • 382-5493

In ~ ~ilver. 5% off table. PARENTS' WEEKEND, May 9,1985 Page7A ·Jhe Union Community extends a warm· welcome to all parents with· best wishes for a MOTHER'S D pfe~asant wee.lcen.d.. · The Oxbow Welcomes Union College Students & Parents, Friday & Saturday Nights With Dinner Entrees! Free Cup of Soup (choice of three) Free Glass of Hous~ Wine UPERB DINING 1ft DOWNTOWN CHENECTADY AT UNCLE TED' ·Hxbow Inn Mothers are very special people and you can show her how much she's loved by bringing her to the finest MOTli'ER'S DAY BRUNCH in the Capital' District. Serving from !0:50A.M. to 4:00P.M. AI the Bottom Of Stole Street .. At The Top for fine Dining 10 STATE STREET, DOWNTOWN SCHENECTADY Reservations · Call 382-8844 FOR RESERVATIONS CALL :;70·'7151 Adults $9.95 • Senior Citizens $7.95 _ Children Under 12$4.95 • Children Under 5- FREE She'll Love You Forlt. · Specializing in the Hard-to-Find! HANDMADE SILVER JEWELRY Imported INDIAN CLOTHES & GIFTS Complete Une of PIPES, SMOl<ING ACCESSORIES &: Imported CIGAR,I;TES-& TOBACCOS Imprinted ROCK & ROU-GROUP T-SHIRTS ~------------ - --- *WELCOME PARENTS* Luigi's Restaurant 1125 Bar-rett St. Phone 382-9044 Italian • American Cuisine OPEN 12-10 Closed Tuesday -------------~ . --- On Saturday evening, May 11 at 8 RAMAD~INN 450 N ott Street. Schenectady .. NY 12 508 PAISA MISeR 163 Jat St., SC!h'dJ -ln.dia lntrtorfs- 311-7913 ~-~ Bring in coupo~.!Ul·-~ Complete Boutique Dresses, Skirts, Tops, Pants, Brass Gifts Jewelry, Wicker, Gifts, Etc., Etc. Open Mon.-Fri. lil: 00-6:00 p.m. • Thurs. 10:00 a.m .-9:00 p.m. • I ;z;J p'ER. ~-·o· NAt' \HECKS- A. CCEPlED 'lAY-AWAY•W .. willlioldyovf r;c,,..--,1'. 1• -~ . ;;) \, . · Pur<hose wifh o smpll d•posil ~ , . ' . : ' . . . . . ' . R E M E M B E R COME JOIN US . p.m., Albany Pro Musica, the Capital Distric;:t's distinguished chamber choir, will honor the tricentennial celebration of George Friedrich Handel with a perfor'mance of his festive Dettingen Te Deum at St. Paul's Episcopal Church, Hackett Boulevard, in Albany. In contrast, the group will also perform a wide range of romantic and contemporary .pieces, including works of Brahms, Benjamin Britten and Sam~:~el Barber as well as others continuing the a cappella tradition. FOR PARENTS' WEEKEND The program will open with four pieces from Johannes Brahms' Lieder · und Romanzen, songs of German folk tales and songs of love. These char- ' ming pieces Will be followed by a group of sacred works, introduced by Brahms' small gem of a motet, Lass Dich Nur Nichts Nicht· Daureh (Let · Nothing Ever Grieve Thee), a work similar in musical .language and mystical spirit to the composer's great German Requiem. This rieo-romantic style . is beautifully expressed in a set of 4 sacred songs by the French composer Maurice Durufle, based on Gregorian chants, a devotional setting of 0 Vos Omnes by Pablo Casals, the renowned cellist, and a 1976 setting of Ave Maris Stella, a text favored during the Renaissance and given a modern interpretation by Scan- . dinavian composer Troi'ld Kverno. This will mark the work's New York State premier. The sacred grouping closes· with Benjamin Britten's Festival Te Deum, written in 1945 for organ ag,d chorus; a piece in· trospective and reverant in spirit. Samuel Barber's Reincarnations will round out the program. Tickets for Albany Pro Musica are available at community Box Offices and at the door the night of the per- formance. Due to limited seatin'g, advanced ticket purchase is recommended. Accessible to the h<!f\dicapped. Sat.: 11 :30 a.m.-close Sun.: Open for Breakfast at 1 0 Join us fora late night snack Try our new menu items including sandwiches, omeleHes, Burgers and Full-Course Meals a.m. tiN MfiNH~ ~)t(~IH~~c~ 605 UniQn Street

Page8A PARENTS' WEEKEND, May 9, 1985 Welcome Parents Happy Mother's Day Try The APPIAN WAY Featuring: • Fine, cozy atmosphere • Food the way Mama used to cook. • Mixed Drinks $1.00 • Domestic Beer 50~ Fri .. & Sat. open 5 p.m.-close 1841 VanVranken WRUC WEEKEND SCHEDULE FRIDAY 9:30-10:30 a.m. New&. Progressive Music 1 0: 30-1 p.m. . ................... Disco 1-4 p.m .......................... Jazz 4-6 p.m ................... Progressive 6-6:30 p.m ......... The Week in Review 6: 30-2 a.m ...................... Disco SATURDAY 9:30-11:30 a.m ............. Progressive 11:30-2 p.m .................... Mellow 2-5: 30 p.m. . .................... Rock 5:30-7 p.m ................. Progresive 7-9 p.m ................. ~~ ....... Rock 9-12 a.m ............... Album Feature SUNDAY 9:30-.11:30 a.m ................. Mellow 11:30-1 p.m ............... Progressive 1-4 p.m ................ Christian Rock 4-9 p.m ...............•... Progressive 9-11:15 p.m ............... Heavy Metal 11 : 15-12 a. m . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . News 12-2 a.m ................. Heavy Metal -· ___._ . . - ' -·- -·- «•t-B¥Jit .... ,IJGI!III-I 1-lml- -·-·-~.vWI FIMI_D_IC.I-1 .. 1~·- ~·-•1!1•0-1_7_'1 FOUR SEASONS CHINE_SE RESTA!f_RANTr Phone: 39.3-5440/393-5441 Hours: Sun·Thu 11 :30·lO:OO ' Specialize in Cantonese,_ Fri·Sat 11: 30·11 :oo . Closed Mondays \ Szechuan & Hunan Take outor·eat In \ We prej,are our foods with •••. Just a Little Bit of Luck ond a Whole Lot of experience I . We're in Walking Distance 10% Student Discount for Take Out Orders Only W /Student I.D. . · . 183 Nett Terrace: Across from Holiday Inn ·~-~~~-·-·--;a-·-·-·-·-·-··-···' . ~~- ·-·-~-·-·-·-·-·- -~-~~-·-·-·-b'i·lil- .. • Plus $400 ~allowance** from Foid Motor Company. Vehicles Included in the Plan. You may choose a new 1985 Thunderbird, LID, Tempo, Mustang, Escort. Bronco II or light truckS up to F-250. •Pre-Approved Credit. Just meet three simple conditions: • You must have verifiable employ- ment thai begins within 120 days of your vehicle purchase at a salary sufficient to cover ordinary living expenses and your vehicle payment. • You must have proof tlui! you have graduated or will graduate and be awarded at least a bachelors deg1-ee within 120 days. • Your credit record. if you have one, must md1· • cate payment made as agreed. ''$400 Purchase Allowance. Make your best deal ... use the $400 as a down payment or receive a $400 check directly from Ford after the sale. FORD Call Dennis J; Hurley, Jr. Orange Motors Company, Inc. 799 Central Avenue, Albany, N.Y. • 489-5414 Camp Union • IS Coming June 1 I. l - FOOD ADDICTION BULIMIA • COMPULSIVE OVEREATING A:re You SUffering From Any Three of The Following: 0 Binge on high calorie food. 0 Inconspicuous eating (hidden eating). 0 Constant attempts at dieting. 0 Frequent weight fluctuations. · Eating to discomfort. Use oflaxatives or diuretics NAPLES RESEARCH Cafe Lena in Saratoga & COUNSELING CENTER • A Medical and Psychiatric e Private, Confidential, and Individual 'freatment. Saturday, May ·n- Mandolinist Frank Wakefield. Colleague and fellow man- dolinist David Grisman has said of Wakefield, \Frank was the first mandolin player to tran- sfonn the bluegrass energy of Bill Monroe's style into something new. He split the bluegrass mandolin atom. Some of us, obviously, will never· be the same again.\ Wakefield and Summit members Craig Vance, Chris Lee, and Steve Jospeph have presents: appeared at North America's major folk festivals including Canada's Mariposa and Win- nipeg Festivals. Sunday, May 12-Traditional balladeer Margaret McArthur. Cafe audiences have long ex- pressed enthusiasm for ancient folk instrumentation and tne preservation of the traditional folk heritage, and McArthur, who spent most of her childhood in the Ozarks of Missouri, where she gained exposure to traditional ballads and songs, has collected music in many regions of the country, in- cludingVermont,where she has lived since 1948. She has helped to revive the use of \old\ folk instruments, and accompanies herself on guitar, dulcimer, and harp-zither. Vital to the New England folk music .scene, she has been acclaimed as one of the best folk balladeers in the country. • 24-Hour Medical Supervision and Support. • Modern Residential Setting. • Special Familization Program. · • Individual and Group Therapy. • Covered by Most Insurance Plans. (813) 775-4500 24-Hour Assistance or Toll Free 1 (80()) 722.()1()() Outside Florida • Call for a complimentary copy cit our newest publication, \A Mini-Guide to Fo0d Addiction.\ • Call for complete confidential .information on our residential treatment program or insurance approval. NAPLES RESEARCH &. COUNSELING CENTER \'The nation ·s most comprelrmsive system for tile treatment of addictive disorders.·· 9001 Tamiami Trail South • Naples, Florida 33962 Member Of the Amencan HOSPital ASSOCIBtiOO An afl1llate of WILMA.C Health Care Partners 1n Fam&ly Progress

Albany2 Union 6 Hamilton 5 Colgate4 Siena 7 Unions ussell Sage 3 Union o Wells 7 Union 7 Union 9 Hartwick 3 Union 4 Utica 650 Union 438 3:00p.m. 3:00p.m. 3:00p.m. 8:00p.m. 1:00 p.m. offs 1me back with 1 the second 's successfill ·d of six wins ~s, the nut- ranee to post- tioh in the m III Softball rournament. rel to Herbert in the Bronx prepare for In the seeded 4th, five seed will then Lehmam advance will be held Softball record books wins, of Women's in 1975. Good Luck Angie rest of the •• , #.;;£! ~:rn .. Sage. ,_ cu .0 :::> I- ·I.!) CXIV No. 22 cu o,: > rc 0 ' > l ~ .0 0 - 0 .c:: 0. Alpha Phi Alpha President John Johnson discusses the recent formation of the fraternity here at Union. · · Schenectady, New York Alpha Phi Alpha .•. Bulk Rate U.S. Postage ],'aid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 May 16, 1985 New Fraternity Welcomed By BE'I'Ii LEVINE Staff About a month ago, Alpha Plii Alpha was ·:recognized by the Inter Fraternity Council (IFC). In order to be recognized by the· College, representatives from the regional organization of Alpha Phi Alpha met with the administration to explain the historical background and present function of Alpha Phi Alpha. An account of the fraternity was also brought up before IFC. This entire process has taken two years. The president_ofthe fraternity, John Joh,nson, is thankful that the - campus community, ad- ministration and IFC have welcomed the Alpha Phi Alpha onto the Union campus. The Union chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha has y~t to receive a charter. A vote by the nationals depends on whether the fraternity is recognized by the college community and whether there is an opportunity for growth. The nationals, located in Chicago, Illinois, voted about one week ago, (so the brothers should be hearing shortly.) Johnson (President), Winston Britton (Vice-President), Larry Romaine (Secretary and Dean of Pledges), Greg Bowler, Reinhart Walker, Marty Glaze (Treasurer), Cy Jenkins Phillip Giss, and James Mann (Historian). Although there were sixteen fraternities on Union's campus before the formation of Alpha Phi Alpha, the founding members felt that none of these offered what they were looking for in a fraternity. They feel the main function of their fraternity is to help sup- port charities. · Ambassador Visits Union The first chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha was founded at Cornell University in 1906, originally with seven members. In a predominantly white univeru sity, the black students felt a need to establish a bond bet- ween themselves. The for- mation of Alpha Phi Alpha supplied not only unity but also a support system in dealing with racial problems and in helping the black students obtain a good education. In l945, Alpha Phi Alpha became in- terracial. Currently, there are over three hundred and fifty undergraduate chapters, nationally and internationally. Countries such as Australia, Africa and the Virgin Islands also have Alpha Phi Alpha chapters. There are three hundred graduate chapters of alumni who are still active in the fraternity by raising money for various charities. A few prominent members of Alpha Phi Alpha are Dr. Martin Luther King, Hubert Hum- phrey, Jesse Owens and Andrew Jackson. In only the first two years of their existence here, the nine brothers have managed to raise over five hundred dollars for the United Negro College Fund, twenty-four bags of groceries and over twenty dollars for the Thanksgiving drive and clothes for the Salvation Army. By JAN.-BARAN News Editor On Sunday, May 1~, 1985, Simcha · Dinitz, Israeli Ambassador to the United States from 1973 to 1978, spoke on peace prospects in Lebanon after the death of Egyptian President Anwar Sadat. His visit to Union was the .fourth in an annual series honoring Sadat and his initiatives. Dinitz,. in his own words, has been \inextricably bound with the state of Israel. since birth.'' Besides being the Israeli am- bassador to the United States for six years, he also served as head of the Office of the Director-General of the Foreign Ministry in Jerusalem~ as political advisor to Golda Meir, and as a member of the Israeli delegation to the United States. Most recently, he·was elected Vice President of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1979. He is now a member of the Israel Knesset on its foreign affairs and security com- mittees. In the 'United States, he is probably more well-known for his cable television show, ''Viewpoints with Simcha Dinitz\. The first subject of his lecture dealt with the repercussions of · the war in Lebanon. Dinitz noted that the Lebanese war is controversial, not only world~ wide, but also in Israel. Con- fusion has surrounded Israel's aims for Lebanon. The former ambassador believes that the confUsion- results from Israel's vibrant democracy .. Because of the seventeen daily newspapers in Tel Aviv alone, there is a wide variety of opinion surrounding most issues, in- cluding the Lebanese war. Dinitz emphasizes, however, that this multiplicity of opinions should not be confused with unity of purpose. Isreal, according to Dinitz, is unified on one point: \the necessity to remove the danger of terrorism on the Northern frontier.\ This danger of terrorism has been increased with the proliferation of organizations which have connected them- selves to Lebanon. One such organization was the Palestinian Liberation Organization ( PLO) which was able to \interfere\ in Lebanon because the Lebanese govern- ment was so weak. Israer aims for a strong centralized government in· Lebanon, but Dinitz notes that the intentions, while good, are not enough. Once the military thrust is removed from Lebanon, Dinitz believes that the \only course of action is to draw back the military line and not allow international terrorism to be active again.'' Dinitz, however, is not too optimistic about eradicating international terrorism. As he stated bluntly, \there is no solution to in- ternational terrorism.\ Simcha Dinitz then stated that a comparison between the See insert for special FITZHUGH LUDLOW DAY Events! - . . ; two wars in Vietnam and Lebanon cannot be drawn, at least from Israel's point of view, because they are not th~ same situation. As Dinitz ex- plains, ''What happens in Lebanon affects our daily security\ because the war in Lebanon is physically close to the state of Israel. There are serious reper- cussions to the Lebanese war. First, with the decline of the PLO as a military threat, this organization has begun to look for ·other avenues to keep itself powerful. Most recently, the PLO has been attached with Jordan so that \it can push itself into the peace negotiations process.'' Dinitz · views PLO participation as an intrusion and an affront to Israel since the PLO has never given up its claim to eliminate Israel as a state. Cii '0 0 Continued on page 3 ~====================================~======~·~ :;, Men's Lacrosse Finishes a great season! • see page 20 • .... Vl >- ,0- ~ .c: Q, Founding Members At Union, there nine founding members. They are: John John Johnson does not feel that Alpha Phi Alpha increases the segregation of blacks. Rather, he believes the fraternity helps the student in terms of culture and support. In addition, the fraternity is in- terracial and feels its main goal is charity work. Right now there are seven pledges. According to national rules, it is a six-week process before the pledges can become brothers. Because it does not cover two terms, the pledging process does not interfere with academics. The seven pledges will be initiated before the end of this school year. Alpha Phi Alpha also hopes to obtain a house. They realize that housing prospectives are limited, but they will be given first consideration if housing becomes available. Cu:t Student Aid? ISC says \No Way!,

. : ; ' ... Page2 CONCORDJENSJS, May 16,1985 Cultural Studies Expanded \' ..0 0 u. 10 ...., a:; ro .c u ~ > ..0 0 .... 0 .c 0. Professor Harry Marten helped to construct courses studying the cultural relationship between the United Sta.tes and the Spanish- speaking world. Sexual Discrimination: BY EMILY LOOSE Staff An innovative and still- developing series of courses concerning the cultural relationship of the United States to the Spanish-speaking world will be added to Union's curriculwn in the next school year. The three new courses which comprise the series are innovative in that they are truly multi-disciplinary cultural studies attempting to fuse the cultural perspectives ·of literature, art, sociology, political science, and history. These courses were, in fact, conceived of by a team .of professors from each of these disciplines. Although each course will be primarily taught by two of these professors, input will be contributed to each course by both guest lecturers, such as artists and authors, and by the several other professors involved in the series. A new professor of Spanish at Union, Harassment Defined · BY LINDA RAFFAELE Editor in Chief Recently, Gloria DeSole, Assistant to the President for Affirmative Action at SUNY Albany, came to Union to speak on se:xual harassment. The event, which was sponsored by the Women's Commission and the Dean of Students' Office, was well-attended, particularly by members of the faculty. DeSole's lecture, entitled \Sexual Harassment, Sexual Attraction, and Professional Ethics'', has stimulated further discussion on the topic of sexual harassment. This article (the first in a series of two) is a further effort to educate the campus about sexual harassment. The logical first step in recognizing sexual harassment is to define it. DeSole distributed a brochure entitled \Sexual Harassment: What it is and How to Stop it\ which contains the definition of sexual . harassment developed by the National Organization of Women (NOW). This definition can also be found on page forty of the 1984-85 Union College Student Handbook. It reads as follows: Sexual harassment is \any repeated or unwanted verbal or physical sexual ad- vance, sexually explicit derogatory sta tern ent statements or sexually discriminatory remarks made by someone in the classroom or wprkplace which is offensive or which causes the recipient discomfort of humiliation or which interferes with· the recipient's education or job perfotmance.\ The brochure passed out by DeSole elaborates on this definition by quoting from \The Guidelines on Discrimination Because of Sex,\ developed by the Equal Education Oppor- tunity Council in November of 1980. The Council says, \Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical con- duct of a sexual nature con- stitute sexual harassment when: 1. submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of an individual's employment (or education) 2. submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the basis for em- ployment decisions affecting such individual; or 3. such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual's work or educational performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive en- vironment.\ As can be seen from this definition, sexual harassment need not be physical. Sexually derogatory comments can be just as discomforting. Unfor- tunately, many of the per- petrators of this type of verbal abuse are not aware that they are in violation of another person's right~. Indeed, the abuse may be rather subt.le. However subtle, though, it need not be tolerated. DeSole believes that the recipient of the behavior (the word \victim\ here implies passivity) should not be hesitant to make this discomfort known. In addition, she says, \Sexual harassment is power expressed sexually.\ It is not the ex- pression of attraction or af- fection but .the inappropriate use of authority. In order to make the definition of sexual harassment more clear, the Student Hand- book provides some examples of sexually harassing behavior. It says, \Such behavior may include leering at one's body, derogatory statements of a sexual nature, unnecessary touching, subtle or overt pressure for sexual favors, or physical assault.\ It adds, \Students especially must not be the victims of such unethical, unprofessional, 1 and illegal behavior · on the part of em- ployees if they are to realize their full potential as members Qf an academic community.\ Assistant Dean Joanne Tobiessen says, \My perception is that what happens at Union is often subtle. We don't hear about attacks or .physical assault ... but I am aware of subtle forms of harassment which can affect the educational experience of women ... We want to provide a positive environment for everyone. We want to inform the campus further about sexual harassment and what people can do about it.\ The College's stand on the· issue of sexual harassment is also found in the Student Handbook and says, \Union College has always had as a central concern the establish- ment and maintenance of a community in which work and learning may proceed in a humane and caring atmosphere for all its members. Sexual harassment is a violation of the law and will not be tolerated in any form at Union College.\ Next week: How to deal with sexual·harassment. ''LIFE: The Most Basic Human Right'' A discussion of abortion, infanticide&. euthanasia Featuring the noted speakers: Barbara Fraterrigo Virginia Horan Tonight • 8 : 30 p.m. • SS 115 Sponsored by U.C.P.L.F. as part of Social Action Awareness Week J os~ Cisneros, will also con- tribute to the course instruction. No course will be designated as primarily political science, or English, or sociology, but rather all three courses w:ill be listed under Liberal Learning. Attesting to the departmental perceptions of these courses as serious, sophisticated studies, each course will count as credit to·:ward a major in . either English, history, modern languages, political science, or sociology, despite the multi- disciplinary formats of each. Professors Harry Marten, English; James McCord, English; Manfred Jon as, History; Byron Nichols, Political Science; Martha Huggins, Sociology; ·and Judith Ginsberg, Spanish, have collaborated throughout both last year and this year to construct the three courses which they believe comprise a cohesive study of the cultural relationship ofthe United States to the Spanish-speaking world. The professors are quick to state that though these courses weave together into a cohesive whole, each course can be taken as a · self-contained, if less comprehensive, study because each course will center around specific as}.:)ects of the Hispanic- American relationship. The first course of the series, to be offered next fall, will appear in. the course listing as Liberal Learning 62, entitled Anglo America and the Spanish Civil War: Private Visions and Public Actions. As suggested in its title, this course will center on the Spanish Civil War as a cultural phenomena, in- vestigating in progression the origins of the war in Spain, the artistic reaction to or treatment of the war within Spain, the artistic reaction to the war in the United States, and finally any lasting significance of the war or any possible changes or distortions of perceptions of the war over time. Though such an elaborate study of the Spanish Civil War may seem narrow in scope, in f~ct, the Spanish Civil War has been the subject of much art, for example, Picasso's \Guernica'' and of literature, Orwell's Homage to Catalonia and Hemingway's For Whom the Bell Tolls,and also of rnuch political and historical speculation. The Spanish Civil War may be said to have had an impact upon the American cultural consciousness of the 1930's and 1940's comparable to the impact of the Vietnamese War upon _contemporary American consciousnes. As Professor .Jonas ex- plained, American interest in the Spanish Civil War revived in the 1960's probably because of the perceived ideological significance of the war and the United States'involvement in it. The study ·of the Spanish Civil War in this course will involve continually pertinent cultural questions such as \Why do people embrace causes?'', ''Can-should art be propagandistic?'' and \In what ways does history alter ideology?\ to quote from the course ·description. As Professor Huggins points out, tbis cause may be especially revealing in relation to the current situation of U.S. in- volvement in Nicaragua due to several possible par~llels between the Spanish Civil War and the current conflict in Nicaragua. The second course of the series, to be offered next winter and taught pr'imarily by Professors Jonas and Nichols, will appear in the course listing as Liberal Learning 63, entitled Two Cultures: The United States and Spanish-Speaking America, . Sharing . a Hemisphere. The course will center upon the evolution of the two cultures, that is the set- tlement of cultural boundaries Continued on page 3 I CUAC Formed BY TONY DUNAIF Staff Recently, Vice President D'Andrea appointed Tom Warger as Chairman of the on- campus Administrative Computers Users' Committee (CUA€). The formal chartered goals for this group are: 1) to identify common problems and promote solutions 2) to establish and share ·standards for data storage 3) to facilitate interdepartmental commun- ications 4) to provide feedback on long-range planning. . According to W arg'er, ''This committee was not created out of the blue, but, in fact is a formal committee that con- tinues the work of represen- tatives from various offices which have been meeting since last summer.\ The main reason the committee was started was in response to the increasing office automation taking place on the Union campus. Warger claims, \The time has come to set up a way ofensuring a-liason of coordinates between offices.\ So far the committee has compiled a report on the state of computing in academic offices. \This is significant\ says· Warger, \for it's the first time that an across-the-board assessment of Union's offices has taken place.\ The advantages . of having computers in every academic office are manifold. Not only do computers provide depart- ments with an immediate electronic mail service, but they allow different offices to share information. For example, the Registrar can share information with the Accounting office thus making the billing process · more ef- ficient. The plans for the future,\ explains W arger, are to complete and refine the totality of the administrativ:e computer system\. According to Warger, this will benefit the students, \because the increased ef- ficiency will in the long run hold down the cost of administrating the College.\ There are not, however, any student representatives on the CUAC. The CUAC has an academic counter-part, the AAC sub- council on Academid Com• putirig, which has reiatively the same history and function. These two separate computer systems are both run out .of the Peschel Computer Center and both facilitate the ad• ministration's job. Fitzhugh Ludlow Day . Tomorrow! . .

~laborate ~ivil War scope, in War has art, Whom of much istorical Civil had an of the to mporary s. ex- in in of and the in it. nish Civil involve cultural do '', be \In what ~Y alter from the As out, especially to the U.S. in- ~ua due to parallels Civil War in of the winter arily by Nichols, listing entitled e United a will of the s the set- boundaries offices of having. academic Not only do e depart- but offices to on. For istrar can with the making ·more ef- future,\ are to the totality computer to Warger, students, ef- are not, student the CUAC. academic AAC sub- . I C om- ~latively the function. computer out of the Center and the ad• CONCORDIENSIS, May 16, 1985 Page3 Reorf{anize Committ~Ps? Forum to Vote on Plan By LISA FOLEY. Staff When Steve Moss '87 and Dave Marin '86~ Student Forum Representatives serving on the Committee on Committees (CoC), reviewed the recent applications for Standing Committees, they recognized a need for a reerganization of the process. The S t'anding Com- mittees of the Forum are the· Student Concert Committee, Film Committee, Speakers Forum, Social Committee, and the Traffic ami Pet Court. Moss and Marin proposed their comprehensive reorganization of the process to the Student Forum on May 13, and the Forum will vote on the plan next week. Moss explained that the purpose of the new process is \to promote the sense of responsibility that being on a committee should involve and to create a hierarchy of exD perienced and informed leadership.\ This spring, the - Conunittee on Committees, which includes chairperson Sue Brand, appointee Katen Jason '85, SeniorRepresentative Lynne O'Brien, and Marin and Moss, selected fifteen members to each committee of 'which two were appoi:nted chairpeople. The Traffic and Pet Court was the only exc-eption, having one chairperson and four members. Under the new plan, Marin and Moss propose to have the CoC appoint two chairpersons to each of the Standing Com- mittees in the same manner it has in the past. The proposal goes on to stipulate that the CoC, \in conjunction with, and with the aid of the newly selected chairpeople, shall appoint three additional members\ to each committee. For each committee, the two· chairpersons and the three appointees will become official members of the committee's Executive Board. The following fall, each executive board, along with two members of the CoC will select candidates for the remaining six positions on that committee. Again, Traffic and Pet Court will be an ex- ception as there will be four members and a chairperson. Marin and Mos feel that this · section of their proposal will ~nable the CoC to make more mfonned decisions about who becomes selected for the committees. They feel that Chairpersons can aid them in selecting applicants· with qualities that the committees need. Furthermore, the ap- pointment of six more members in the faU allows candidates interested in obtaining a position on the committee to exemplify their qualifications for the position and their dedication and responsibility. Also, with a fall selection, fresh- men would be considered for committee positions. This, Marin and Moss believe,. will provide experienced leadership for the future of these com- mittees. Marin and Moss feel strongly about committee members taking their responsibility seriously so that the necessary work gets done. Marin says, '\We don't want people to apply for committee positions so that they can add four more words to their reswne.\ Moss adds, \We only want students who are serious about working on the committees to apply.\ Moss and Marin's tough stand on the Standing Committees includes a new plan for dismissal of those official committee members who are \repeatedly absent from meetings and events, not taking on responsibility or carrying through on those assigned, incompetent in the execution of committee affairs, or. commit other actions or inactions that indicate a lack of ability to adequately serve on the committee or lack of commitment and-or dedication.'' Any member may bring up any other official members, including those on the Executive Board or chairpeople for dismissal. The Executive Board, excluding any members up for dismissal, and two CoC members will meet to vote on the member in question. The Student Forum indicated at its meeting Monday night that they want to reserve the right to vote on the dismissal of members because they vote on the ap- pointed chairpersons and committee members. The consequences for Why was the Idol burning last Thursday? Are we preserving .or destroying a Union traditio~? dismissal are severe. The proposal states that ''any member dismissed through this procedure shall have any record of his position of the coiiliiiittee erased, and will be barred from applying for any position on a CoC committee in · the following year.\ The con- sequences are to reinforce the seriousness of being on a committee,..- said Moss The Forum is expected to pass the proposal as stated in the next meeting. Steve Moss '87 and Dave Marin '86 propose a reorganization 0f committee application process. Cultural Courses Created Continued from page 2 and development of distinct cultural traditions. The final course of the series to be listed as Liberal Learning 64, primarily taught by Professors Cisneros and Huggins, entitled Hispanic Cultural Identity and the .American Dream,will focus first upon the Hispanic cultural perceptions of the individual and his social environment and then upon the migration of the Hispanic culture to the United States. A survey of the materials covered and schedule of proposed guest lecturers for this series of courses demon- strates the true fusion of disciplines these courses aspire to, an attempt, Professor Marten explains, to \collapse the notion of territory as a way to know.\ No traditional text- books will be used but rather mainstream cultural works, including films, The Good Fight, poetry, selections from W.H. Auden, William Carlos Williams, and Muriel Rukeyser among others, and paintings, such as Picasso's monumental \Guernica\ and Robert Motherwell's series \Elegy to the Spanish Republic.'' Guest lecturers will include highly acclaimed writer· Carlos Fuentes, the author of fourteen books ranging from several collections of short stories to collections of essays, two plays, and masterfully constructed and deeply psychological novels. Cocerned with con- temporary troubles in Latin American-United States relations, Fuentes writes in \Farewell Monroe Doctrine\ \. . . Latin America had sided with the Guatemala revolutionaries and had decided to shun their U.S. counterparts after the invasion of 1954. This was the result of disillusion- ment, of outrage, and even of a certain confusion.\ One imagines Fuentes' contribution to the course considerations will be deeply revealing. Poet, translator, ·and critic John Stallworthy will spend two weeks at Union as a visiting .professor and will also con- tribute significantly to the program. Professor Marten hopes also to invite members of the now somewhat mythologized Abraham Lincoln Battalion, known popularly as the Lincoln Brigade, which fought on the side of the Loyalists in the Spanish Civil War and was comprised of some thirty-two thousand Americans, the majority of whom had little or no military training and fought out of communist sympathy. The schedule of lecturers may also include Spanish Civil War historian Stanley Paine, author of several analyses of the war including The Spanish Revolution, and historian Michael Kammer, author of several works including An Inqniry Concerning the Origins of American Colonial Civilization: People of Paradox. The introduction of these three courses into the Union curriculmn is made possible by a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH). Early last school year Professor Judith Ginsberg originated the concept which has developed into these three eourses and initiated the idea of writing a proposal for grant aid · to the NEH. The several professors from the various departments who expressed interest in the concept joined together through a series of meetings last year to draft the formal proposal. The grant, totaling approximately $130,000, was awarded to Union during the summer. All three professors in- terviewed expressed enD thusiasm for these three courses as sincere efforts to counter what they perceive as a trend toward specialization _in contemporary college curriculums. Professor Jonas referred to several attempts to introduce multi or inter- disciplinary courses during the 1960's in assessing this new series of courses as the most sophisticated and most sincere attempt ever at Union to truly interfuse several disciplines in the study of a specific subject. Professor Huggins pointed out that the interplay amongst the extremely diverse set of per- sonal perspectives held by the several professors involved will offer Union students a unique opportunity to simultaneously see the multiple and often conflicting sides of issues. The several professors hold very diverse views of many issues and lively debates within the classes should arise as students attempt to analyze these various views. Professor Marten perceives the program as an \indication that the faculty believes the narrow concepts of learning are restricting.\ Indeed, the generous support of the NEH and the dedication of the several professors involved strongly suggest that these courses are not only innovative but that they are significant attempts to address a perceived need for a more complex and comprehensive cultural un- derstanding then that available within the boundaries of specialized disciplines. PRIZE DAY Mayll, 1985 RohPrt M. Fuller Prize- Senior ... David G. Barrett Soph<:nPre . . . Cynthia A. ll!orphet Terri Lynch/Jackie OJttita Award., Deborah L. Hodin William A. Pike Merrorial Trophy ... Wayne K. McDougall * * * * * • * * * * • * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * Ern Exchange ••• , ........ :. . . • . . .. • Kenneth Budka Cynthia L. CUrtis ****** William F. Allen Essay Prizes ...•. Robert M. Van Voris - Jon S. Skinner Acadsny of .Mlerican Poets Prize.:. steven B. Glazer Ronald Alniraian Memorial Prize. . • • Dirk U. Petersen Andrew W. Archibald Prize •••..•••• Ja:nes G. Heinegg David Brind. Merrorial Prizes ....... Jay M. Baruch and Enily F. L:xlse Joseph D. Ik>ty Prize •.••.••..••.•. Philip A. Bean SamJ.el M. Hesson Prize .•..•••.•••. Pasquale Ia Pietra Htspanic Soc. of Sch'dy Prize ••••• Charles P. Venezia Jotm Iwanik Prize ••••.•...••.••••• William McROberts III · · 'Than!lS J. Judson Mernorial.Award ... leslie H. Perla Harold A. I.arrabee Prize .••••••••• Antonio D. Martini Elias Peissner Prize .............. David G. Barrett lliarles Alexander R:icanood Prizes. Janice C. Thanpsoo (MusiC) • Janet M. Weick (Fine Arts) Rotary Club of Sch'dy.Prize ....... lUchard M. Molot Freling H. &lith Prize ••••••••.••. Jonathan S. Ford Wessel Ten B. Van Orden Prize .•••• Terrill G. Bonderoff &~gene I. Yudis Prize .......... ~. . 'lbaDaS A. Haven • ****** · President; s Ccmnissiort Prizes: Senior Sports AWard ••••••••••••• Margaret M. Petro Athletic Premise Award.. . . • . . . • . Rebecca F. Clanente Camunity Service Award .••..•••• Karla L. Hanson Senior Thesis Prize. . . . • . • . . • . • . N~cy A. Della RoCco ****** ASCE'Award .......•..•...•.••..•... DominicK Izzo Srunuel S, Fe~r PriZe ............. David A. Greenway Bruce M. Garber Prizes ............ Jay M. Baruch and Kathy E. Magliato Shankar Gokhale Prize ........ , . . . . James S. C8mpbel 1 . Charles B. Hurd Prize ..........•.. Roberta G. Susncm Ingvar Ingvarsson Prize ........... Christopher R. Hoople Warner King Prize ................. Christopher R. Hoople Ethel Kirschenbaun Prize .......... Liesel A. G0lden William l..a,snik Prize .............. Thams J. Megerian llii'th Elnilee MacCoy Prizes. . . . . . . . Leslie I. Wolkoff Beth Cllauncey John lewis March Pr~ ...... , ..... Charles W. Pollard The Moles Prize ................... J0lm DeMis R.E. :~organ Meloorial Prize ........ Christopher R. Hoople Psi Chi Service A\ards ............ Elizabeth S. Reed Carolyn S. Phillips Jeffrey J. Perry Martin Terry Resch Prize ......... , §hawn Green Mortimer F. Sayre Prize ......•..... Joyce M. Harrington 'Ralph W. stearns PrizEJS .... , ...•.. Janet E. Keyes Lyla R. Meader Jessica L. Ruoff lorna A. Rush:forth Keith D. &lith Jwres Henry Turnbull Prize ..••.... Nicholas Gallello lee & William Wrubel Prizes ....... Florence A. Melio - .. Philip J. Ferrone Dr. Reuben Sorkin Award ...• , . . . • . . Micbael J. Kline Delpnic Society: Juniors: Jeffrey S. Oless Seniors: Susan G. Brand Rebecca F. Clsnente Marcy!. Burstiner Lisa A. Freed J)ouglas E. lanoon Andrew V. George Brian C. Laux Martin D. Glaze Shawne T. McCord David A. Marin Peter D. Mohr Christine L. Siler Sandra M. Nagler Alan Tuckman David R. Neiblum ****\'* Fred W. BrWn Prize .••• , ..•.•.•••• Nathaniel L. Harris :EX:AC 14e<!al of Merit •••.•••.••... , • • Rebecca F. Clemente Ronald F. Plumb Prize .......... , .. Brian D. Cbx Rd:Jert B. Ridings Award ........... MargarE't M. Petro William B. Jaffe Medal •...•.•..... Daniel M. ;3tewart ****lt.* Alan Lake Chidsey Award., ......... steven I. Benson Frederick B. Hawley Merrorial CUp .. Roger M. Harris David Wagenseil Award •..•.•••••••• Mark D. Hurwitz Meritorious Service Awards ••••.••• Patrice A. Heffernan Brian C. Laux 'fhanas J. Meger ian Sandra M. Nagler David R. Neiblum Mary M. Phillips Wendy Bernstein Merorial Award ..•• John P. Ciovacco The Silver Plate Award •..•..•....• Deborah S. Levine Panhellenic Awards: Extracurricular ................. Delta Gwnma Ccnmmity Service ...........•.•. Sigma Delta Tau Scholarship .•.........•......... Delta Delta Delta Qrtstanding Individual .......... Sandra M. Nagler Sch'dy Panhellenic Scholarship .. Bonnie J. Faulkner, llD CUtstanding R. A Awards. , .• : . • • • • • • Lisa A. Freed Anne Marie Loftus ****** ·Julian B. Hoffman Award ••••••••.•• Paolo B. Trubiano Daniel F. Pull.mm Prizes: Hunanities .•.•.. James G. Heinegg Engineering ....• Stephen M. Inadilt Frances Travis Maoorial llvard •...• Thanas A. Vanoor fbratio G. Warne:r Prize ........... Genevieve San Martin George H. Catlin Prize ...••.•..•.• Mary L. Holt Joseph Daggett Prize ..•..•.•.•.... Thcmas J. Megerian Frank Bailey Prize ......•••....... Shari R. Mioonec.k Note: For descriptions of prizes see the Union College Register. C'• C'· >- .c 0 +- 0 .c: c.

. ' ' .r::. .... 1... 10 d) .r::. nJ '- nJ Vl >- .0 0 - 0 .r::. a. CONCQf:lD/ENSIS, May 16, 1985 Nietzche's Mor,ality: Good and E'Vil Discussed By GREG FAY Staff in this way. He asserted that after only a quick reading of Nietzsche, one would wrongly \Beyond Good and Evil: conclude· that Nietzsche Nietzsche's Positive Morality'; suggests that morality is a was the subject of a talk given hypocritical institution. ·For by Alexander Nehamas of the example, moral actions include University of Pittsburgh, on lying as long as ''by means of May 10. lying ... (one) can establish a More g.enerally, Nehatnas moral system which will then talked about a theme \which say lying is not perinitted,\ as appears reaUy throughout is done in Plato's Republic in Nietzsche's writings ... his the myth of the metals. 'campaign against morality/\ But, asserted Nehamas, \I which is considered \one of the think that's not quite what he most disquieting features of his says . . . Nietzsche would think Nietzsche's radical idea, however, would not have apocalyptic consequences, as . many think, asserted Nehamas. \Nietzsche does not object directly to moral actions ... His main objection to morality is its absolutism.'' Nehamas asserted that Nietzsche thought that \The whole point of being an individual . . . is precisely that there isno formula ... that captures what it is to be one.\ Nietzsche wants people to become unique, Which implies breaking rules. thought.\ Nehamas thought that to object to morality simply that it sh()uld not be considered ?n the grounds that it relies on unmoral means ... would be to Alender Nehamas spoke on Nietzsche's \Campaign against But Nietzsche's conception of what it is to be beyond good and evil is modeled on his view of literature and the arts, according to Nehamas. Therefore, he asserts, \Just as there is no single type of great morality,\ last Friday, May 10. V e 8 t . u . . 0 make another moral lsi S n I .Q.·n judgement.\ Nietzsche's · · . · . campaign is to '~stop making . . . moral judgements altogether.\ Ambassador Continued from page 1 In addition, the PLO is at- tempting to block the peace negotiations process similar to the blockage which occured when Anwar Sadat made his historic move. After Jimmy Carter became President of the United States, he moved to change the policy in the Middle Eas.t. Instead of settling issues in a piecemeal fashion, Carter wanted to create com- prehensive settlements. Dinitz noted that these settlements required skipping steps necessary to create a lasting peace. It also meant accepting the lowest common denominator and more im- portantly, including the Soviets. The possible addition of the Psych --Papers-- Presented Several Union students recently presented papers at the 2oth annual New York State Undergraduate Psychology Conference held in April at Union. These included: Debbie .Snell '86, \Does the Context of ·Words Affect How Diagraphs are Perceived?\; Cynthia Steinberg '86, \Group Polarization\; Debbie Schulman '88 and Greg Bell '88, \The Smucker's Grape Jelly Challenge: Experimenter Bias\; and Robin Leichman '86 and Gary Siskin '86, \Gender Differences Associated with the Loss of Virginity.\ The conference, patterned after a professional conference, drew some 200 participants from throughout the country. \It was a great opportunity for the students to learn and share their experiences,\ said Jack Lipton, assistant professor of ps_ychology at Union. HEY YOU! Don't be apathetic! Take five minutes to Vote on Friday! Sealts' --visit __ _ Last Wednesday night, Professor Sealts lectured on Herman Melville's Moby Dick. in the lower lounge at Hale House. The lecture con- centrated on answering the question, \Whose book is Moby Dick?'' After a thorough overview of the criticisms the book received during Melville's Soviets into the peace process must be m3:d~ w1th Jordan and Nietzsche wants to move ~d the ability of Isr!i~l to th~ Palestm1ans. . The ?ther beyond good and evil. withstand great m1lltary votce suggests an .mte~abo~al Said Nehamas, \To be beyond pressure caused Sadat to make conference, the exact SituatiOn good and evil is to reconsider his historic mave. He believed Sadat wan~ed to pr~vent. . the relationship between the that the entrance of the Saviets The Soviets' mam PW:P?se qualities we have been calling would mean failure for the was then revealed by Dtmtz. by these terms.\ For example · artwork, Nietzsche can have no general view of conduct that can lead to the type of life he praises.\ In particular, though, \Nietzsche does produce a perfect instance of a character .· which he admires,'' asserted Nehamas. Nietzsche created a literary character out of himself, ~nd is his own product. He managed to situate himself. beyond good and evil and is himself a \magnificent character,\ argued Nehamas. Americans because they had to \The ~~viets want to keep the \Lying is evil, but without th~ contend with Middle East pot boilmg. ~ey do not wa~t lie, you ·can't establish the commitments, Congress, and anothe~ American success m dominance of truth.\ In fact, freedom of the press. The the M~ddle East. . Th~refor~, Nehamas said, according to Soviets, on the other 'hand, they wtll do everythmg m ~~eir Nietzsche. \Moral and immoral \could promise the sky.'' power t? sabota~e Amerwan are not even distinct. They are The Carter administration for success m t~e Mid~~ East.\ exactly the same qualities . . . two weeks refused to endorse In ~onclus10n, Dm1tz made Evil passions or drives or Egypt's discussion with Israel one fmal comment about the tendencies are themselves the because an endorsement would prospect of peace between very same passions, tendencies contradict the United Stat~' Israel and Eg~t: \We have or drives which in particular policy. made peace with Egypt after circumstances result in the Dinitz then note~ that this strenuous n~gotiations. Eve!! best, in.the greatest, and in the same situation exists today. though there IS a cold peace, It m 0 s t a d m I r a b 1 e One voice states that a move is better than a· half-war.\ achievements.\ , CAMPUS NEWS B'RIEFS lifetime, Sealts explained the literary importance the novel has had on literature of the twentieth century. Whether the boo~ is concerned with Ishmael, Captain Ahab, or Moby Dick, the whale, has been the subject of debate for many theses since the turn of the century. Sealts concluded that, \The reader must participate in the act of creation . . . this is a mark of nineteenth century writers.\ In answer to the lecture's title question, Sealts concluded that Moby Dick belongs to the reader. Professor Sealts is the Lamont Visiting Professor this spring and has been teaching several classes for the past two weeks. He is currently working on two books, one on Emerson and one on Melville. His latest book, Pursuing Melville 1940. 1980: Chapters and Essays has received fine reviews since it was published in 1982. He received his Bachelor of Arts from Wooster College and his Ph.D. from Yale. He is currently a Fell ow of the National Endowment for the Hwnanities. Wong to -Speak-- 1982, Wong was assistant professor of computer science at Colgate University, and also served as a research and teaching assistant at Brown University. He is a member of the Association for Computing Machinery, the IEEE Com- puter Society, the Cognitive Science Society, the American Association for Artificial Intelligence, and the Association for Computational Linguistics. Annual Picnic --Slated-- All Schenecta(iy alumni of Union and their families are invited to attend the Annual Picnic at Union in Jackson's Gardeu, Tuesday, May 21, at 6 p.m. A \Get Together\ will begin . at 5 p.m. Musical en- tertainment will be provided by the Dutch Pipers. Hot dogs, hamburgers, salad, wine and beer will be served. There will be no charge, for alumni and their spouses from the Class of 1935 and earlier. For all other alumni and guests, the charge will be $7.50 per person, with no charge for children ages five and under. Douglas Wong, assistant -~ Please send your rese~vations professor of computer science to Norm Chad!Journe ~5, 111 at Union, will discuss Woodhaven Drive, Scotia, NY \Language Comprehension in a 12302 by May 17. For late Problem Solver\ at a faculty reservat.ions, call 399-0290. In colloquium Thursday, May 16. c~se. of ~clement.weather, the . The talk, which is free and open ptcmc w11l be held mdoors at the to the public, begins at 8 p.m. in Dutch Hollow Pub. · Social Science Building, Room 016. A 1974 graduate of Union, Wong studied at Nanyang University in the Republic of Singapore and received his Ph.D. in computer science from Brown University. Wong's research interests include language comprehension, ar· tificial intelligence, ·problem solving, and knowledge representation. Before coming to Union in Poetry -Reading-- William Hathaway and Jordon Smith will present a poetry reading at Union Thursday, May 16, at 8 p.m. in · the Humanities Building Lounge, Second Floor. Spon- sored by the English depart- ment and the Idol, the student arts magazine, the reading is free and open to the public. A reception will follow. Hathaway,· assistant professor of English at Union, is author of An Apology for Loving the Old Hymns, and is a frequent contributor to the New England Review, the Georgia Review, Shenandoah, the Agni Review and the Paris Re:view. He has recently completed a second book, Lucky Seven. Hathaway, visiting associate professor at Union, has recently published his fourth book, Fish, Flesh & Fowl. His poems regularly appear in the American Poetry Review, the Hudson Review, the Kenyon Review and Ploughshares. ~Immunology Exhibit---- On Saturday, May 11, the spring term immunology ~tudents sponsored a Parent's Weekend exhibit. Under the -direction of Professor Styles, students representing three sm~ll im· munology classes constructed an exhibit demonstrating what they have learned this term and how this can be applied to their future careers. Professor Styles was impressed with their results saying, \They. worked hard to put all this together.'' Bonnie Faulkner '86, an im- munology student, was also pleased and added, \I learned a lot doing it.\ The exhibit involved posters, diagrams and microscope slides showing techniques and samples of the mediums with which the students worked. The introducton' poster stated: \Inununology is the study of how our bodies react to foreign substances that enter our tissues. Our ability to resist disease--bacterial, viral, and fungal infections; tumors and cancer; and even allergies- After Nehamas' presentation, h.e answared questions and further defended his point of view, and a reception capped the colloquium. depends on the immune system.\ Eight microscopes were set up so that visitors could view slides of the thymus, lymph node, bone marrow, spleen, red blood cells-platelets, red· blood cells-neutrophils, red blood cells-lumphocytes, and red blood cells-monocyte eosenophil. Posters and diagrams included explanations of experimental techniques, allergic response, im- munodiffusion, blood, cells, microzone eletrophoresis, and immunoelectrophoresis. All the exhibits were planned and set up by students so !hat parents and other observers could see the material covered in the first five weeks of the course. These emibits included both basic descriptions of ·subjects such as cells and complex presentation techniques and procedures. A poster asserted that im- munology is \in the forefront of a great deal of research going on today,\ and the various exhibits explained the field in terms a layman-or parent- could easily understand. The immunology . students were rewarded for their efforts by a large turnout in attendance. Psych- Physical -....i-Laws-- The Philosophy Department at Union will present a talk Friday, May 17, titled \PsycJ:lOphysical Laws: Can there be Laws Connecting Psychological and Brain Phenomena?'' The talk, part of a series of-colloquia sponsored by the department, will begin at 3:30 p.m .. in the Humanities Building,· Room 213 . .Speaker will be Jaegwon Kim from the University of Michigan. The talk is free and open to the public, and will be followed by a reception in the Humanities Lounge. For further information, call 370-6376.

idea, have as Nehamas. ot object ... His is its ~ehamas thought of being precisely ... that o be one.\ people to implies of dgood and view of arts, Nehamas. \Just as pe of great an have no that ~ of life he though, a character asserted created a out of ~product. himself- ~vil and is Nehamas. ~esentation, and point of the immune ~s were set could view lymph spleen, red ~. red· blood red blood and red and im- cells, and ~esis. planned so that observers covered of the bits included riptions of cells and sentaHon A that im- ~ forefront of going the various the field in parent- The were efforts by a ~ysical Department a talk 17, titled Laws: Can Connecting Brain talk, part of sponsored will begin at Humanities Speaker ~im from the and open to be followed in the ~e. rmation, call One Opinion: Nicaraguan Alert By THE YOUNG REPUBLICANS Central America represents an area of vital strategic im- portance to the United States. CONCORDI,ENSIS, Muy 16, 1985 PageS FEATURES . Accordingly, United States foreign policy ha~ historically sought to prevent fareign powers hostile to the United States from achieving positions of influence in Central America and in the Western Hemisphere in general. In 1979, the San- dinistas, a Marxist dominated group, overthrew the govern- ment of Anastosio Somoza and seized power in Nicaragua. This development afforded the Saviet Union an opportunity to establish a second Communist in the Western Hemisphere, the first being Fidel Castro's Cuba. Nicaragua under the San- dinistas has increasingly moved toward the Saviet bloc, as best illustrated by President Daniel Ortega Saveedra's recent trip to the Soviet Union and Eastern sophistication of the. Nicaraguan forces. Indeed, Nicaragua has employed her military as an instrument of intinlidation against her neigh- bors, most recently in border raids into honduras. In addition, Nicaragua has fueled revolution in the region by supplying arms to Communist rebels, par- ticularly in El Salvador. The Reagan administration has attempted to pressure the Sandinistas into abandoning their destabilizing activities and cease collaborating with the Soviets and Cubans. Congress's failure to approve the administration's most recent request for $14 million in additional · aid to the Nicaraguan contras will only serve to reinforce the San- dinistan and Soviet view that the United States has lost its resolve to resist the further spread of Communism in Central America. This is a dangerously misleading signal to send. The United States should make clear thro-ugh such measures as President Reagan's just introduced boycott and continued support for the contras., that only through internal democratization and the moderation of her external behavior can Nicaragua hope to see improved relations with the UnitedStates in the near ~uture. \(}1\t: CDN1R~S) Mi. lt\E MoRAL EQJAL Uf OUR FOUNDING FATHE.R5 .•. \ -~!)REI\GM G. O.P. Wants You! Europe. . Similar to the relationship between Cuba and the Soviet Union, a large camponent of Nicaragua's relationship with the Soviets is military. Since taking power, the Sandinistas have, with Soviet backing, undertaken a substantial military buildup. Purely defensive considerations do not justify the size and Intramural Boxing Wednesday, May 22 8:00p.m. at the Fieldhouse ENTRtES NEEDED In All· Weight Clas·ses Enter ar Intramural Office or call Brad at 372-6332 By THE YOUNG REPUBUCANS On February 13, 1985 the Union College Young Republican Club was officially formed to help the students of Union become involved on Campus. The Club provides the opportunity for the student body to voice their ideas, enhance the college community's political awareness, and develop leadership qualities in those who are willing to challenge themselves as well as our society. the Club publishes annual newsletters, \interviews selected candidates such as college professors, and arranges for various key political figures to speak to the college commw1ity. Look Out For . The Standing Committees available for involvement are Foreign Affairs, National Affairs, Publications, Polling, Campagn, Advisory, Mem- bership, Political Education, Public Relations, Research, and Social. The Foreign Affairs committee examines the world arena and targets various areas of political and economical turmoil that affect international relations. The National Affairs committee, on the other hand, examines the factors both home and abroad which affect the U.S. economy. The Research and Publications committees gather the data necessary to write the articles to be published in the Concordiensis and our own periodical, The Union Review. The Club needs students to take on responsibility and commit themselves to go above and beyond the average student. You have only a few more years of the \good life left.\ It is not too late to get involved and perform an active role on campus. All students, the faculty, and the local community are welcomed to participate in the Club. For more information please send a letter to the Union College Young Republican Club at P.O. Box 1859 or contact either Michele Isele at 6892, Jim Wood at 6487, or Mrs. Marra, director of student activities. This is your chance to voice your opinion on campus! P.S. Did you know ' CAMP UNlON IS COMING JUNE 1, 1985 Dis tor- that Fitzhugh Ludlow was a Kappa Alpha brother? ~¥-¥¥--¥¥-\'¥-¥-~ t The Idol is +: ~ now officially t ·i accepting submi·_ t • ssions for a ~- ~ .,. . ~ ~ terr_• IC· ~ssue. i( iC You can help! ~ ~ . -,-. ~-Send your poetry ,t ~ short stories, t t photography and --tc t artwork to Box t ~ 2256. i' ~-¥- .......... ~ Hi::Y -WE ~IJIX! f~ESI-I rll A IJ- I I 1'1 ~~·KE.. 11-lf. y v E- SE\ EN it-!ROWUf' S£FORE! HA\JE. TO CWu.l UP IHE ROOJII- JIIY PARENTS AW:.E ALt'iOST 1-\f~E.! f LATER 1 A1\ ;rl-\~ r'R.ESIDE.t-.ST S ADDRESS: WEZ..{.Oifl£.. -Vr-'\- WE \..C.Ot-i£: LIM • • • diensis I W£L..I.- 1 U..l ;5 · c.~-EAtJ 1T vf AtJYWAY} AtJD f'LE.ASE. 13- E-- fO J.Xr t. 1' 0 r-W f'A~EN1S! I !lEY I I 1\\f\tJ - 1 M fiJLL- Of' rALT f T OH Y£5! lJELWME.. I \ Pf\F.E~.rr5 ! IT 5 f' Bt::f\VflfUL DAY, ISNI 1T 7 fL~A-<5~ po NATE. Mo~E.Y, ~fltvkY~v! 7 wl-1~1 A rJid: MAI0! 1.-EI :S Mf.El 1-\\IM! PR£SlDtt.JT MORR\5- Tt-liS I.S MY J'tOH\.ER Ar-JD fF\11-IE~! \ HEY FRESHMfii'J- J YOU NE.V£R TOL-D ME: y'()I.Jf< MOnlti?.. H~S $0~H A J (:,~EAr BODY_{ \1f-~ YOU I R\E. t'IOM Is GOT f\ G RE. AI SON! --.......... f{·~l \-It:-'\'\ ~

I • I ; . I, ·: ·\' . ·\ Page6 FEATURES ..... IJJ .Q ::> ..... 0 \0 > rtl 0 >- .Q 0 +- 0 .r: 0.. CONCORDIENSJS, May 16, 1985 Big a·rothers Big Sisters ANNUAL RIVERSIDE AMUSEMENT PARK TRIP- Sunday May 19 Transportation, admission, lunch, and rides provided. The buses will meet in . front of Carnegie Hall at 9:30a.m. and return to Union in the early evening. All Big Brothers-Big Sisters and their Littles are invited. This is a very enjoyable event and .seating gets filled quickly so please call and make your reservation as soon as possible (374-4523). APPRECIATION BANQUET .... Tuesday May 28 our Appreciation Banquet from 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. at Miranda's Banquet R,oom, 49 Mohawk Avenue, Scotia (just over the bridge). A ziti and meatball dinner, awards presentation, and entertainment a.re scheduled. Donation is .$5 per person. Please call our office by May 20 for your reservations. SENIOR BlG BROTHERS-BIG SISTERS Professor Lif?ton's departing words may make some students. wonder about the relationship between faculty at Union. The Board of Directors of Big Brothers-Big Sisters of Schenectady County request that you help us celebrate 15 years of service by attending This is an especailly hard time for your Little Brother- Little Sister. It is important to discuss your graduation with them. They need to hear from you that your Jriendship will continue and you will keep in touch with them. We will be setting up case conferences with you this month to prepare for Y~?Ur graduation. Lipton's Departing Words Any Senior who wishes to sing the Alma Mater and the Star Spangled By NANCY GRUNDMAN Contributor As many people already know, Professor Jack Lipton of the Psychology Department has chosen to resign his professorship at Union College. Lipton will be attending the University of Arizona Law School in the fall. Law school is something Lipton has always wanted to experience; however, after college he decided to get his graduate degree in Psychology rather than Law. Now he has the opportunity to do both. Arizona's law school has a major emphasis on the social sciences, and their Psychology Department em- phasizes law. This is one of many reasons that Arizona was Lipton's first choice. Besides being a full-time student on full scholarship, Lipton will also have an appointment in the university's Psychology Department and will be able to do research with Hispanics, which is one of his major research interests. All these factors make Arizona the perfect place for Lipton. Moreover, he and his wife will be living on campus in housing for married students. Being a · student again will definitely be a big change after being on the other side. Lipton stated that, after being a professor, he will probably be somewhat in- tolerant of poor professors or those who come to class un• prepared. Lipton has mixed feelings about leaving Union. It is dif- ficult for him to leave because he loves teaching, dealing with students, and psychology. Moreover, leaving is a real conflict because he feels that the students that he advises and students who have taken classes with him and those students who have intended to take classes with him will not have the continuity they expected. Lipton would still like the op- portunity to help these students as much as he can. After August 1, he will be available in Arizona for recommendations. Lipton does not feel this is a career change but growth in the direction he feels is a natural progression in his life. He has many pleasant memories of Union. However, he knows if he stays longer, he would be unhappy and would become stagnant. This is a problem for many professors. They happen to get a position at Union fresh from graduate school and end up staying just because of that. Another reason Lipton. feels he wants to leave is that there is a morale problem with the faculty at Union. It is basically caused by the tenure and evaluation processes and the tension it creates. There are similar problems at other in- stitutions, but the problems are much more exaggerated here at Union. As is the case elsewhere, tenured professors become \deadwood merely collecting their salary but becoming very inactive in research and devoting little time to teaching. However, this is not true for all older professors; there are many excellent older faculty. Moreover, he feels the tenure system also contributes to tension between the older staff and the younger staff. Junior faculty often resent being evaluated by older faculty whom they perceive as less competent and who themselves received tenure many years ago during much less competitive times. The junior faculty's major priority here at Union is job security and receiving tenure. This often becomes more important to them than their classes and their research. This evaluation apprehension causes some young faculty to make decisions about their classes based solely on how it will look to the tenure com- mittee. Lipton has found the intellectual atmosphere to be quite lacking particularly in the Psychology Department though this has been changing for the better in the last year or so. The low morale at Union among junior faculty was underscored by the recent \Campaign for Union\ where pressure was put upon junior faculty to make monetary contributions to the college. Many young faculty were upset by this but felt they had to yield because of .political reasons. Lipton feels he has not really fit in at Union. Union is a very conservative college and most of the faculty reflect similar values. In this respect he is dissatisfied with Union. Lipton feels there is pressure to con- form to the traditional role of a \professor.\ There is not much diversity among the faculty, and the professors are typically very traditional. Furthermore, most professors are male, they wear ties and jackets, and teach primarily by the traditional lecture format. Many of the senior faculty make up an \old guard,-'' who are very loyal to Union. Unfortunately, this ''old guard\ guards the institution from change, which, Lipton feels, prevents growth. Lipton finds that women are not as pressured to conform because Union is bending ove~ back- wards not to appear sexist. Lipton finds pleasure in every class he teaches. He does not consider it \work.\ However, he has higher aspirations which could not be fulfilled here. Lipton feels little bitterness toward Union and finds that teaching here bas been an in- teresting experience. Union people were an eye opener to Lipton after growing up in California and attending huge public schools. Many of Lipton's . . . Banner at Graduation should contact NORA KREMER at 346-4060 or Box 1381 by Tuesday, May 14th Tickets will be held next week students are unhappy to ·learn that Lipton is leaving and they wish him much happiness and success in the future. After August 1, Prof. Upton can be reached for recom- mendations at c-o Department of Psychology, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721. Two changes to the Constitution will be on the ballot for the approval of the studeny body: Revisions to the Constitution of the Student Body Of Union College Article IV Section 6 Three senior, junior, and sophomore class representatives shall be e~.ected during the spring term to serve a one-year term in office during the following academic year. o.f the three representatives from each class, the person receiving the highest number of votes shall be class president, ·the person receiving the second highest number of votes shal! be class vice-president, and the person receiving the third highest number oJ votes shaH be the class treasurer. Two freshman representatives shall be elected during the third week Of winter term to; serve the remainder of the academic year. Of the two representatives from the f.reshman class, the person receiving the highest number of votes shall be class president, and the person receiving the second highest number ·of votes shall be class treasurer. Eleven class represen- tatives shall represent their respective classes on the Student Forum; three of the class representatives (one senior, one junior, and one sophomore) shall also represent their respective classes on the Student Affairs Counci I; three of these class representatives (one senior, one junior and one sophomore) shall also represent their respective classes on the Student Forum Committee on Committees; and thr~e of these class representatives (one senior, one junior, and one sophomore) shall also represent their respective classes on the Student Forum Finance Committee. The Constitution ArticleV. Section 2. The Student Forum shall consist of the following 18 voting members: student representative from the Interfraternity Council; ... Sectio!13. ... one ... The Interfraternity Council representative shall be president of the In- terfraternity Council of his/her designee who shall be an elected represen- tative of the I nterfraternfty Council. Proposed Changes Article V. Section 2. The Student Forum shall consist of the following 18 voting members: ... One Greek representative; ... Section 3. . . . The Greek representative shall be jointly determined by the In- terfraternity Council and the PanHellenic Council.

~t from ~anda's the are $5 per by y hard to with from will in be recom- of of 85721. the and lass hird two se:n- ~e of ~e of the one ~ ln- One In- Enioy Fine Wines BY MARGARET BOITANO Associate Features Editor Ever wonder about fine wines? How· do connoisseurs really distinguish between good and bad wines, let alone taste and even smell the subtle ·characteriStics in particular brands? Personally, I find it extremely embarassing and increasingly difficult each successive time a trip to, the Liquor Store is on the agenda and a million bottles of masked, unpronouncable wines taun- tingly lie in wait. Recently, a ,group of students from Davidson dorm decided to relieve the anxiety that often .accompanies an everyday event like shopping for wines ot ·choosing the r~ght bottle for that candlelit dinner at Maxine's. Last Tuesday, they skillfully organized a Wine Tasting Seminar sponsored by Englehardt's Liquor Mart, who not only provided a well- educated guide but also a wide variety of relatively inex- pensive. wines. Fortunately for this affair, several important tips and insights about wine were exposed for the benefit of the novice wine-taster. For starters, did you know that many of the famous French grape varieities were grafted from .tougher American root stocks that are less susceptible to disease? Perhaps few Frenchmen Would admit to such a revealing concession, but it is true. Also, it takes at least five years to grow suitable grapes from a new vine, thus ex- plaining why older wineries are more trusted and respected. Finally, it is important to un- derstand the process of fer- mentation in order to account for differences in the taste of wines. For example, sweeter wines are not fermented as long as dry wines and therefore contain more sugar and less alcohol. · Some more tips about wine include: 1) In general, White Wines are chilled and drunk at a young age while Red Wines are served at room temperature and aged longer. 2) It is im- portant to lie bottles of wine on their sides ·so that the cork is constantly moist and no air is allowed to enter keeping the wine fresh .. 3) Sediment at the bottom of a bottle is :not an indication of bad wine. As wine ages, it becomes progressively lighter and sediment falls to the bottom. Usually this can be solved by a fairly easy decanting process. After all the above in- formation was related to the group and everyone had tasted enough, an informal discussion ensued. \W-W-What do you eat this with?\ inquired Jim Manly. This important question brings up a final comment concerning wines-they are meant to complement a meal or hors d'euvres or whatever ideas one entertains at the time. Although this implies that wine takes a subordinate role to the activity accompanied, one could not be more wrong. Fine wines are a very important component of any affair. Final comments: if you're interested in fine wines, find a good wine shop with a propietor who knows how to take care of fine wines as well as fine customers, and keep in mind that to make the most of any affair, ·a fine wine is a sure success. •••••••••••••••••••• • • • .• Economi~s of the ~0' s : ·: DemocratiC and Republican • e VISIONS • • Discussion of Economic Philosophers • • - and Party Directions • 8 Professors Phaun, Schmidt, Reynolds, Weiner • M. • : · Thursday, f!iay 16 • • 7:00p.m. • : Fox Lounge : •••••••••••••••••••• CONCORDIENSIS, May 16, 1985 · Page7 FEATURES The sisters of Delta Gamma· would like to thank the following merchants for their donations towards the Delta Gamma Olympics: Book Nook Metropolitan Sign Company Honey land Pharmacy, Inc, Avon Meat Market Sugi of Japan Graubarts & Son Danny's Confectioner Shop Cal'lalian Insurance Agency, Inc. Gershon's Delicatessen North Eastern Fine Jewelry Pure & Simple Natural Foods Union 5 & 10 Friendly's (Upper Union St.) Ben.& Jerry's Hair Statement Four Seasons Chine?e Restaurant Holiday Inn Fausto's Hair Stylist Canal Paper Company Revere Bowling Lounge Crosstown Car Wash Fortin's Woodlawn Pharmacy Sweet Tooth Dunkin Donuts (1200 State St.) Doris Remis Gift House Open Door Owl's Nest Strawberries Anaconda Kaye ~ Something Special Home Shop Arnow Shoes Pumpkin Patch Plane Boy's Bike Shop Z Meat Market Cindy's Shear Magic Life of the Party Burger King Grog Shoppe The Pentagon Restaurant Manhattan Exchange Lafayette Clothes U rsu Ia of Switzerland Time Center Jewelers JoAnne's Card Shop Taco Maker NY Style Deli WATCH FOR OUR NEW OUTDOOR CAFE! NEW HOURS Open Mon.-Fri. 8 a.m.-8 p.m. Saturday at a a.m.-5 p.m. 160 Jay St. • 382-5493 SEBASTIA.N INTRODUCES THE CUTS THAT MAKE IT . Library Makes Arrangements For Summer Renovations Schaffer Library will be in- available for public use. Access PPEN. HAIR DESIGN Located on corner of Broadway & Hamilton St. 382-7956- Student Discounts STUDENT SPECIAL May 9-19 with Gari, Theresa $6.00 Manicures $12~00 Haircuts stalling compact shelving in one to the basement will be by · half of the basement during the elevator only, elevator keys will Summer of 1985. Students be available for check-out at the taking summer coursework are Circulation Desk. The library advised that periodical titles will have photocopy machines beginning with A-Lit will be and microfihn and microfiche unavailable from June 17th readers available for use. through September 9th. The library is undertaking . Microforms, ie. microfilm and this project to alleviate fiche will be inaccessible. The crowding in the basement. If remaining periodical titles, Lit- you have questions or concerns, Z, and the government please see Maribeth Krupczak documents collection will be at the library. Chemistry Oub Picnic * We carry a full line of Nexus arid Sebastian hair care products. 25% off retail with student I'D. The Chemistry Club picnic will be held on Sunday, May 19, rain or shine at the Girling. Center from 1-6 p.m. All are invited. Rides to the picnic wi II be avaUable in front of Carneg;ie at 1 p.m. There will be plenty of organic food and games. Also to be featured will be the end- products .of many distillations and fermentation processes. Have you P.iayed with your Chern Prof. today. BE THERE!

·.,, :·, Page8 <irllltfllrbtrnsis Foundt-d at limon Co/Ieee 1817 ------------ --~---- FHLDay Spring Term brings lots of parties and social events to campus (as you well know by now unless you have been living in a vacuum for the past seven weeks). The warm weather seems to bring everyone out of the library and onto the lawns. Let's face it, folks ... now is the time to indulge. We immerse ourselves in the great weather, the ever- present ·music, dancing, food, and for many of us, alcohol. Mter all, what's a spring party without beer? Pretty full, right? Right?? . Not so, guys. This Friday is a chance to give your liver a rest and celebrate the spring without alcohol. Fitzhugh Ludlow Day was established in 1979 as an alcohol-free celebration of spring. There will be lots of food, games, prizes, and fun for all who come out to Library Field to participate. The Stompers (a fantastic rock-and-roll band from Boston) will be on hand to provide music for the event. So let's all get out and enjoy a gorgeous spring day in the sun. We've worked hard all year, and we deserve a little fun. And who knows? With all the activities planned,· you probably won't even miss that beer in your hand. To cite an old cliche . . . Try it, you'll like it! Enjoy. All letters to the editor and sub- must be 'typed mitted by 6:00 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed, but names will be withheld upon request. Lette,rs to commentaries necessarily and not reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis. the editor do A fond word to all those in the Union community who helped make Parent's Weekend '85 a grand success! A special thanks to the person in charge of sunshine! CONCORDIENSIS, May 16, 1985 LETTERS Thanks for Senior Luau To the Editor: Mary Phillips and Lynn E. O'Brien would like to thank all those people who helped make the Senior Luau a success. . Especially Dean Mammola, Mrs. Marra, and Dean Massa. Also thanks goes to food service and the physical plant for a job well done. First the good news, now the bad. We were both very disappointed in a few of our classmates-we are sure they know who we mean, for not bothering to pay the very reasonable price of $4 per ticket. lronicaUy these were the people chowing out at the table all afterncon. And when these. people were approached they had a few smart comments. We had no budget to work with. Everything which was provided at the festivity had to be paid for by ticket revenues. We both worked very hard because we believed it would be fun to get together ence again before the week of graduation and we trusted our classmates to be honest and willing to pay the measley four bucks. Let's be realistic-where can you go and drink and eat all you want for $4? If you know of a place please let us know because we will frequent it often!!! Please do not get the wrong idea. The majority of people were really appreciative and helpful-es.pecially the un- derclasspeople who donated their time and energy. Also thank you everyone for helping clean up--it really was ap- preciated. Sincerely, Mary Phillips and Lynn O'Brien Repair the Girling Center To the Editor: I was pleased to be. a part .of the Class of 1985 '~Senior Luau'' held this past Saturday at the Girling Center. The condition of the Girling Center, however, bothers me greatly. As a \for sale\ sign prominently stands at the en- trance to the fifty acre retreat owned by the College, it seems that Union is jeopardizing a valuable resource. The Wallace S. Girling Center, formerly the American Locomotive union's recreational spot, was once a \beautiful place\ and a \highlight of the area,\ in the words of some Union employees who have been around Schenectady for more than a few years. We now use it for a minimal number of events each year, including orientation, the Sigma Chi clamllake, and the faculty picnic. The clubhouse and pavilion could be fabulous facilities for student, almnni and parent functions on a regular basis. Unfortunately, both have been allowed to deteriorate to a point where they are unattractive and depressing. But they are hardly beyond repair. Specifically, the neglect is manifest in an indescriminate lack of paint and masonry repair ·at the facility, though grass and· shrubbery near the road are trimmed undoubtedly to give the impression that Union is maintaining the Girling Center. PlUIIibing and lumber supplies from campus are discarded or \stored\ at Girling. The most ironic sight I saw last weekend was several boxes of 1983-84 Annual Fund brochures randomly tossed into a shack at the Center whose roof and doorways have already begun to collapse. In short, the place has ·become a literal dump for campus trash. With Schenectady noise or- dinances becoming stricter, and more and more .of our campus being paved virtually every day, I . believe a rather uninhibited recreational facility such as the Girling Center should be growing in im- portance rather than lessening. The College should reconsider its decision to sell the property, and restore it instead. Since all our increases in costs will provide roughly $1.8 million in \revenues over ex- penditures\ this year alone, it would seem that we could spend a few dollars to revitalize a gathering and recreational facility which Union already has in its midst. Douglas E. Landon '85 Speakers Forum Apologizes · To the Editor: We regret that some people who held tickets to the Steve Landesberg performance on Friday, May 10 were not ad- mitted. This was the fault of the fire marshal, who mistakenly Promise Kept To the Editor: I do not believe in making campaign promises. However, last year Beth Bernell and I promised the junior class that if we were elected we would see to it that they would get some sort of a junior function. Well-we were elected-so jr. class: you're getting your funct-ion! After weeks of running around · searching for funds for a \Pub Night\ we hit success. We would like to thank Dean Mammola and the Student Forum for their contributions. Most of all, we would like to encourage the junior class to attend the \Pub Night'.' on May 3oth-it will be a fun night just for our class. You'll be hearing from Beth and I soon. Respectfully submitted, Chris Siler Beth Bernell Jr. Representatives Photographers Needed Submit name and phone number to Box2577 thought that the Chapel was filled to capacity. Since Speakers Forum had only 975 tickets and the Chapel's capacity is over 1000, this could not have been the case. Further, many people told us that there were empty seats around them. People not admitted should bring their tickets to Mrs. Marra's office for a refund. We apologize for the inconvenience. Don't miss our upcoming speaker, Dr. William Masters (of Masters and Johnson fame) who will speak on May 30 on Human Sexuality and its Myths. Union College Speakers Forum

ow of a : know .uent it ~ wrong people lve and he und lonated y. Also helping ~as ap- lncerely, rPhilllps 1 O'Brien already ~ort, the 1 literal 11. toise or- ~ter, and campus r every rather 1 facility Center in im- ~ssening. consider 1roperty, iases in ;hly $1.8 over ex- alone, it lid spend ltalize a eational already '85 We Masters fame) 30 on Myths. College CONCORDIENSIS, May 16, 1985 Page9 **STUDENTFORUM** Student Forum President Vice President -- Administration Chris Siler Siler Contrary to what one may suppose, I am Hot wholly pleased that no one has challenged me for the position of Student Forum President. This is indicative of precisely the apathy that everyone complains about on campus. I cannot fool you or myself by saying THIS APATHY WILL STOP with my administration. If anything, I would like this statement to convey to the campus community that I am aware of the concerns on campus and I Will do my best as president. John Donnelly Donnelly Vice President ... Finance Beth Bernell Berne II The ch~nges in store for the college are dramatic. If elected I will work to the best of my abilities to maintain the high standards here at Union during this time of change. I feel this can be best achieved through the promotion of student ac- tivities and greater student involvement. For example, I will advocate a more organized attempt at another pep rally. I would also like to see the establishnient of a \recruiting\ program, whereby fre~hmen who participated in a certain . activity in high school (as in- dicated on their application for admissions) would receive notices regat;ding how they ,coufd further fulfill that interest here at Union. This year on the Forum has been highly productive: a pep rally, - the inclusion of Panhellenic on the Forum, the solution to the party policy, etc. In addition, Chris Siler and I have organized a pub night to be held for the Junior class on May 30. Deciding to run for Vice President for Finance is not a decision I have made lightly. My experience as Junior Representative, participation in many of the student activities on campus, and general social involvement formulate the basis for that decision. As Vice President for Finance I will serve as Chairman of the Finance Comniittee, and as such it is my responsibility to run weekly meetings and present committee reports to the foru:rrt. The opportunities for a better Union are available to us. With your support I hope to make our next year a highly productive one. Larry Wilder Hello. My nam~ is Larry Wilder. I am currently a junior running for the position of Vice 'President of Finance. I feel that a!) a member and active par- ticipant of the Union College community for the past three years, I am qualified to tm- dertake the responsibility of Vice President of Finance. Throughout my college career I have achieved positions of leadership; the president of the Union College Gaming Association and the student manager of Campus Security. I .believe the administrative skills I have attained through my interaction with student organizations has given me the experience necessary to oversee and coorilinate the financial business of. student run organizations. In the next year I would like to see a greater involvement in student activities. I feel that as Vice President of Finance my per- sonal interest in the per- petuation of student run organizations would result in a greater campus involvement in Union's student activities. Wilder Board of Trustees Jeff Lipsitz Lipsitz As students here at Union, we ;ire often affected by decisions made by the governing body of the College, the Board of Trustees. As Junior Representative to the Board, I know that I would represent the Student Body in its best in· . terest, as determined by the prevalent opinions on campus. Naturally, it is necessary for established, and particularly qualified people to determine the future Of the College; however, they do not have to .live with any une·xpected repercussions that may arise for members of the campus community. As an Economics major, with prior business and political experience I feel confident when interacting with adults on a professional level. Presently I am Co-social Chairman of Chi Psi, and am therefore no stranger to responsibility. I have also learned: the im- portance for individuals to work together as a group to achieve a common goal, in this case the continuation of the excellence of Union College. It would be my privilege to serve alongside the distinguished members of the Board of Trustees, a few of whom I have already become acquainted with. Rest assured that your views would be best represented if I am elected. Thank you for your support. Julie Mountain Moun~ain Election Day: Friday, May 17,1985, and I am coming to you once again for your support. I was very fortunate to have been elected as sophomore representative to this year's Student Forum. The Forum's accomplishments have been noticeable and significant: the greater role of the Forum in the Independent Student Coalition, the passing of the party policy, the implementation of Phi Beta Kappa discussions, which successfully bridged the gap between faculty and students, the introduction of the Panhellenic to the Formn, ~he first pep rally. Witnessing the conception of ideas, and helping with their execution has given me experience which I feel is necessary for the position of Junior Trustee. Junior Trustee is a two-year position. A trustee is responsible for ensuring that the ideas and concerns of every Union student are represented to the Board of Trustees, and that students are fully informed of policies discussed during trustee meetings. Running for Junior Trustee was a decision taken seriously. I feel I am both ready and able to represent the entire student community, and would like the chance to do so. Thank you for your .time, and please remember to exercise your right to vote on Friday, May 17. Do you want a Student Government that represents \THE PEOPLE\? If your answer is YES, then you have found your choice. My name is John DonneHy though most people on campus refer to me as \J.D.\ I am running for Vice President of the Student Forum on the ad- ministration side. I have been involved in many activities here ·at Union in- cluding the Conduct Committee, WRUC, Neuman Club; and my fraternity. These activities, as well as being a Resident Advisor, have led to the meeting of a wide variety .of people here which I feel could help me in the Student Forum. Since the Student Forum is the representative Student Government on campus, I feel that my ability to look at the situation objectively and utilize suggestions are integral parts to any organization. I plan to use the Fori.Ull as a vehicle so as to improve the communication lines between all parties in- volved. My goal is to use the best ideas from the past toward a better and more lucrative future. One other aspect which I feel will help me on . the Student Forum is my Navy ROTC training which has given me the opportunity to refine my leadership capabil,ities. The experience which I have gained from this program, such as being put in charge of a platoon, are key elements in the ability to get a job done. I urge you to cast your ballot this Friday. Voting is an im- portant part of any community. Have a say in YOUR govern- ment! Thank you for your time. Steve Moss My name is Steve Moss, and I am running for Vice President for Administration-Chairpe- rson of the Committee on Committees ( CoC)--on the Student Forum. I am running not because I want to get in- volved, but because I am in- volved. For the past two years i have been an active member of the Student Forum, and for the past year, the CoC as well. As a member of the CoC, I have among other things: ( 1) helped to rewrite the first draft . of our by-laws, (2) helped to institute the Club Status Report to increase communication between the CoG and student organizations, and ( 3} instituted arid run a new leadership conference fl'r all people ap- pointed to committees for next year. As a member of the Student Forum, I have been an effective liaison between the students and the administration. For instance, I was a co-author of the new party policy which now allows us to have outdoor band parties. I have also proposed and passed several amend- . ments to the Student Forwn by- laws, my latest calling for a total reorganization of the Student Forum standing committees to increase their effectiveness. I also have specific goals for next year that I would like to accomplish, such as forming an ad hoc student-administration committee to improve com- munication between the two groups, and to ensure that the students' best interests will not be overlooked in the midst of the campus construction beginning · next fall. Duejo the nature of the CoC, it is extremely important that an experienced person beconne Chairperson. As the most ex- perienced candidate, I will be able to shape the CoC into a more effective extension of the Student Forum. With your support we can then make the Student Formn a more vital aspect of our life at Union. Don't Forget STUDENT FORUM ELECTIONS Fridety, May 17 9:00-4:30 VOTE! President V. P. Administration V. P. Finance Junior Trustee ~AC Representative 3 Senior Reps 3 Junior Reps 3 Sophomore Reps

'' ~ PagelO CONCORDIENSIS, May 1'6, 1985 ELECTION STATEMENTS ·*Sophomore RepresentativeS* Richard Allen ot our \job\ at Union. Becoming involved in the functioning of the school is the second very important half of our education. I want to become involved. The desire to be active in the schools' functioning is the very reason that I am running for Sophomore class representative to the Student Forwn. My desire and en- thusiasm to get involved and represent you is the reason that your vote will be well placed if it is placed with Cathy Bednarik onFriday, May 17. Allen The time has come once again for you to choose the people you wish to represent next year's Sophomore class on the Student . Forwn. I am Richard Allen and there is one important quality that separates me from the many other candidates running for the three available positions, that is experience. For those of you unfamiliar with the Student Forum, having experience makes it that much easier to understand how things work and the best way to achieve certain goals. I have served as the Freshman representative for the past four months and thus feel myself to be greater qualified than any other candidate. Don't be fooled into voting for those candidates who make outrageous promises or those who proclaim they can singlehandedly change the school and make our class \The Greatest.\ The job of Student Forum Rep. is to represent the views of the Class and I ask you to vote for me on Friday, May 17. Cathy Bednarik Bednarik Members of the class of 1988, Hi! As our first year of college quickly comes to a close, I've had some time to look back and put my experience into some perspective. Union is alot dif- ferent than being at home. There is more freedom to do what you want when you want. This first year was a time of adjustment; a time to find out our own capacities for school work, work-work, and partying. It was also a time to become familiar with Union. This year I found that I had a lot of free time on my hands. I really was not sure what to do or what I'd even want to do with it. I've thought hard about next year and decided that I want to use my free time constructively to benefit my classmates as well as the college. I've realized that being a student is only one half Thanks for your support. Jeff Berkowitz Berkowitz If you want it it's not a dream, We need people to do all sorts of different things, just as long as they do something. The trouble is, many people forget their minds and don't have anything creative or intellectual, or social to do. I don't want to work for you, I want to work with you. Let's not fall into a rut, vote Jeff Berkowitz for Sophomore Representative. Gardner-- Bolster Bolster My name is Gardner Bolster, and, yes everyone, Gardner is my first name! I'm from Ho-Ho Kus, New Jersey, but don't hold that against me either. Rather look at me, the person who wants to represent you, the class of 1988, on the Student Forum. This past year, I was President of West College Hall Council. The council planned many events including: A West Cabaret . Night, ski trip, the movie \The Graduate\ West ' . Beach (I didn't pick the band!), as well as selling West dorm shirts with that legendary slogan, \Your mother eats at West.\ I was also on the ad hoc committee that formed in order to extend the administration's new party policy, so that it would include live music. This committee showed me that the students at Union truly have a \say\ in what happens at the Yes Seniors, you can vote! So come to Carnegie tomorrow and keep the Union spirit alive I college. This is the reason that I am running for a position on the Student Forum. I think we need people in the Forum who will not only fill the office; but people who will add their opinions and insights on any given topic. Those of you who know me, know that I wm speak out and I hope those of you who do not know me will give me the chance to prove it. Aaron Carrel Carrel Hi, my name is AaroB Carrel; and I am running for Sophomore class represen- tative. Instead of listing my past experience with student government, since everyone has had the same or similar experiences, I feel this position shauld be held by someone who can talk to people. I am easy to talk to and eager to hear your opinions. It is my responsibility to convey these opinions to the student forum. I would very much like to represent our class. David Cohen Cohen To the Class of 1988! Though it seems hard to believe, our Freshman year at Union is almost over and it's time to look to our future. It feels like oniy yesterday that we elected our Freshman Student Forum Representatives, and they must be commended for a job well done. Hello. I'm David Cohen and am running once again, for your representative to the Student Forum. This election gives you the opportunity to help mold our next three years of campus life. I am asking for your sUpport tomorrow because I sincerely want to be your Student Forwn representative next year. I, for one, would be committed to making your suggestions realities. Participation as a Union representative is not a foreign experience to me. I've served my floor as a Dorm Council Representative and am now an officer of Fox Dormitory. Campaign promises are a thing of the past because you know what happens to most of them ... Even so, I want to work with you, making Union the best that it can be. Your voice in Union's future will be decided tomorrow. It is up to you to elect the candidate that will 'best represent your interests. A vote for COHEN will be well worth our while. Pam Conners Conners I am not sure exactly when I decided· to run for Sophomore Class Representative, but I can tell you why. I decided to rtm, not because I think I can make Union College into a paradise overnight. I decid~d to run because I saw the need for enthusiastic and responsible leaders that will make Union College a better place day by day. As a Sophomore Class Representative you want to choose somebody who will consider the needs of the Sophomore Class as a group. This same person has to listen to the individuals of the class and be a representative of the whole as well as the parts. I feel that this unity and individuality of the Sophomore Class is what I will strive lor if you elect me as your representative. I will listen to any suggestions you have and do my best to see them ac- complished. One of my own ideas is to _have a . Sophomore function. This year as Freshmen, we had Orientation, The President's Dinner, and they made us eat together at West College. They made our unity. Next yeax::,_as Sophomores, unity will not be handed to us. If the Class of '88 wants to make a mark ill Union . College history we have to work as a team. Start this Friday by voting for PAM CONNERS as Sophomore Class Represen- tative. Jonathan Gerstman Gerstman Union College needs strong leadership to guarantee the vitality of its community through its Upcoming revisions. There is construction now underway on the new mechanical lab,. and starting this sununer the construction for our new student union building as well as the new pool will begin. · · As well as the physical changes _ our school will be undergoing, there will also be many policy changes. There will be many problems associated with the closing of the pub, the creation of a temporary mailroorn, the ab- sence of a gym facility, and the overhaul of the liberal learning program, which will demand careful attention .. The ad- ministration cannot properly attend to these needs without strong input from the elected representatives of the student body. There have been many decisions in the past that have only been made public after theirinitiation:For example, the early pub and SkeUer closings and the new outdoor party . policy required revisal sub- sequent to their introduction because student p~rticipation in · the form~tion of{ those policies was lacking. It IS my goal as ·Sophomore Representative to insure that policieS in the future will reflect the wishes of the entire college community, including the student body. The class of '88 needs a leader who is concerned about the problems of the upcoming year and one who can represent the opinions of the student body. Vote for JONATHAN GERSTMAN for Sophomore Rep. Kim Hancock Hancock Members of the Class of ·1908 . ' Do You: . -Want to know what's going on at UBion? -Want to have a say in the happenings here at Union? -Want to know what your representatives are doing? -Want to understand proposed changes for our school? -Want to have class ac- tivities before we are Seniors? -Want to start traditions as well as uphold existing ones? -Want to help make things happen? -Want a representative who . really represents you? If you answered \yes\ to any of the above . . . Vote KIM HANCOCK Sophomore Student Forum Representative. Make Your Voice Heard! v 0 T E_ I ••

of . f ~ CONCORDJENSlS, May 16, 1985 - ·Page 11 *Sophomore Representatives* - Jim MacLaughlin Hello, my name is Jim MacLaughlin and I am r1lllfling for sophomore class representative. In my first year · here .at Union I have been in- volved with the hockey team, the chorus, WRUC and the telethon, as well as being a pledge at Chi Psi. I believe that that through my diverse in- volvement I have gained the . experience to deal with the educational, athletic and social issues of Union next year with . an open and responsible mind. If anyone has any questions that they would like to ask before the electlon Friday, _ please do not hesitate. THANK YOU. MacL!\'ughlin Seriously though, I feel that I can do a great job on the Student Forum. I have a great deal of experience to contribute, however more importantly, I have the enthusiasm and devotion toturnthat experience into action. My freshman year has brought me very close to Union College and I would like to contribute as much as possible. I _ would appreciate your vote. Thank You . Monteleone Tom Muzzonigro Congratulations, one year of college down! Since we are going to be sophomores next year, we will be playing a much bigger role in the college. I'm Tom Muzzonigro and I would like to be your representative. I Rand Monteleone don't know much about the job yet, but I will represent your 1 , • , ideas and am open to any SE~. · · · That s nght. I suggestions you feel would promise more sex for everyone, . better ·life on the campus. Of and better weather . for special interest to me is Schenectady ... yeah, less wmd. working with the IFC on next Just elect me, Rand Mon- year's fraternity rush program teleone, as Sophomore Rep. ~o and the new campus party the S~udent .Forum and I 'Yill policy. So, on Friday May 17, drastically 1mprove your life. remember to vote. Muzzonigro Brad Oren Union College will be un- dergoing a period of huge growth in the next two years and' the class of 1988 will be at the forefront. The new gym and athletic center will change the face 'Of student life on campus remarkably. I, as Sophomore representative to the Student Forum, will help students in my class become part of the building process, so as to be able to understand and gain full use of the new facilities. The large expansion of Union must be - accompanied by communication betwe.en planning administration and students. The large increase in new campus activities can not be used efficiently if students do not know they exist. I would like to open this line of com- munication, as well as fulfill the other important functions of the sophomore representative. I think I am the most qualified candidate for the job, and I encourage all students to vote on Friday, May 17, 1985. Do you want to save the · - Skellar? See changes in Libera.llearning? Vote for Student Forum member-s who will do the iob right!! ' Oren Susan Witkoff I, Susan Witkoff, am a student at Union who is genuinely concerned and interested with the direction of the 1985-1986 sophomore class. My goal is to see that the sophomore class be included in all the various op- portunities Union College has to offer now and in its future ,plans. I have positive input to con- tribute to the issues such as parking priviledges, amend- ments to Union's Constitution, and club financing that are being discussed now. I am also eager to follow through with the new plans for the Alumni gym, the Field House, Carnagie, and Hale House. I am eager to follow through and emphasize the future plans for Carnagie, being that it is to be the central meeting place on campus where the students will gather and take advantage of various activities. But what about the period of reconstruction? Where will the students meet on Tuesday ev~nings to celebrate no Wednesday classes? With the Alumni gym closing, where will the Mark Spitzs on Caii!PUS swim? I intend, with the best of my capability and knowledge about Union, to find the best reeplacement for the Pub we have right now, and to propose the idea of a \swim card\ that grants free access to a nearby pool. Join me, Susan Witkoff, in making Union the most it can be for us now and in the near future. • *Junior Representatives * Mickey Bradley Bradley As I see it, the chief function of a Junior Representative is to protect and establish his class's. best interests. In my opinion, this year's representatives have done a ·good job of this. The Forum as a whole, in fact, has been quick, thorough, and responsive to the major issues that have arisen this year. If elected, I would try to continue that kind of representation, as well as keeping students in- formed of decisions that con- cern them. Too many students, it seems, don't realize what the Forum can do for them, or how it functions; in just this past week of campaigning, for in- stance, I was surprised at how many sophomores don't knoW who our current reps are, how many we have, or even what they do. Forum members are cons~antly mak!ng decisions that affect the entire student body (e .. Skellar closing hours and outdoor party policy) and students should therefore take interest in who they choose to represent them. My experiences and acti- vities at Union have given me, 1 feel, a solid background for this position. On campus I have been active as a Gatesman, Film Committee . member; and Arts Editor for Concordy. Next year I hope to continue these activities, as · well as being an R.A. and serving on the ·Finance Com- mittee. While these activities are time consuming, I don't feel they would detract from my abilities as a Junior Rep; rather, I think the experience they provide would ultimately enhance my effectiveness as a Forum member. They keep me in touch with the various at- titudes and ideas expressed on campus and with the many facets of life at Union. This is an important connection, since the voice of the representatives you elect will be your voice throughout our junior year. I urge you to give careful thought to the people you vote for. If I'm elected, I pledge myself to a more unified junior class, rational and practical approaches· to problems on campus, a stronger student awareness to issues that affect us, and dedicafed service to the Class of 1987. In short, a better Union for us all. Claudia Dudack Dudack Hi my name is Claudia Dudack. I am running for the office of Junior Representative of the' Student ~ ~urn. I am not going to ramblE:: on about the various activities that I am involved in, but rather briefly explain w}ly I would like to be a member of the Student Forum. I have a genuine concern for the relationship between the student body and the rest of the college. I believe that there is a - strong need for improved communication between both the student forum and the ad- ministration and the student forum and the students. Knowing many of the possible future members of the Student Forum, I am capable of working well with all of them. 1 would appreciate your vote on Friday. Please remember it is important to vote. Thank you. Steve Lipsky Lipsky Can you believe it another year of college is almost gone! Take a minute to reflect back upon the past two years. Think of the good times, the hard times, the friendships and the triumphs our class has shared together here at Union. It is hard to realize all the events of these past years but consider the fact that this is only half the story, there are still two years left! Who knows what the future holds for us here at Union. As a class, we must consider the fact that as we become Juniors and Seniors we determine our future more and more. Younger classes look up to us as examples. I feel that with strong representation we can achieve unity in our class along with other .positive characteristics .which ·can be passed on through out the Witkoff Rochelle Zamore \Terrible things were hap- pening around us. Right next to me a huge reptile was gnawing on a woman's neck, the carpet was a blood-soaked sponge- impossible. to walk on it, no footing at all. 'Order some golf shoes,' I whispered. 'Otherwise we'll never get out of this place alive. You notice these lizards don't have any trouble moving around in this muck-that's because they have claws on their feet. Witho.ut parties and social life, we are in the same situation as those chaps; helpless, with no escape. Vote for Rochelle Zamore for Sophomore Representative. Zamore college community. I, STEVE LIPSKY, could help our class realize these goals if I were elected as one of our class representatives. As you know, I was one of our class representatives this past year. Through this experience I have learned much of the inner workings of the Forum and have become comfortable as a member. I also served on the Finance Committee as a representative of a number of clubs. As a result of the above I will no longer have to be \learning the ropes\ but rather I will be fully prepared to represent our class views in an effective and responsible manner. I thank-you very much for your time and support in the past and would be grateful for your continued support in this election. Cast your vote for experience, vote STEVE LIPSKY for Junior represen- tative tomorrow. Thank-you.

, I .. i ' ,, l ' ' . I ' ' .. I , .. ' ' . , ' ~ 1 . ' f ; . ; i ',: ' ; ' : ,!' . '. '1' Kyle Siegel Siegel The mass-student political activism'of the 60's and 70's is over, and the new conservatism of the 80's has brought with it the need to direct our on- campus political energies and objectives within the confines dictated by us by modern society. The idealism remains, Maureen Coleman Coleman I'm Maureen Coleman and I would like to represent the Senior class on Student Forum next year. Through my position as News Editor of Con- cordiensis, I have been involved · with the Student Forum-and many other aspects of campus life. I have a strong interest in all areas of student life, but my main goal would be to increase and secure student input into decisions which affect in- dividuals and the campus as a whole. · When an important issue is in question, I don't think Union is art apathetic campus. I would like to see students' interests and concerns · directed positively so they may be reflected in both Forum decisions and college policies. The best way to ensure this is to VOTE tomorrow. 'Tod Dimmick Next year will be important to us for a number of reasons. As CONCORDIENSIS, May 16, 1985 *Junior Representatives* but the older parameters are being reestablished. The Student Forum is often defined as a place where students are able to voice their ideas and opinions, and only that. I feel that it can be and is much more than just a place to express ideas and opinions: it is a working part of those con- ventions through which we can not only make our voices heard, but have an active say in the way al:lr school is governed and administered as well. As students paying over $13,000 per year to attend Union, we have the right to have a definite say in what goes on here and not to be pushed around by those who would otherwise limit ol:lr parties to hours before 2:00a.m., and who would also prohibit us from enjoying live outdoor music. I am not one to simply roll over for the whims of others (the quims of others is a dif- ferent story, however) or to present as popular,_ views which are actually contrary to those of whom I represent. If you choose to elect me as your represen- tative to the Student Forum, I · will do my job as best I can., not only welcoming, but en- couraging input from all members of the Junior Class who take their education seriously. I believe that I will be able to provide the leadership that our class needs. JohnZuk Well Sophomores, in less than one month we will be half way through eur college careers. Personally, these past two years have been extremely beneficial. Aside from fur- thering my education, I have made lasting friendships and expanded my own character, I love Union College. I feel that it is · time to rec i.procate for the benefits which I have gained. Although my activities such as Gatesmen and Orientation- Committee have allowed me to gather experience and knowledge while helping others, I know that I can do more. I am running fer Junior Representative so that I m11y address and help to alleviate some of Union's shortcomings. I feel that I am familiar with enough of. the Class to gain a realistic understanding of our needs and wants. Further, my other activities and experiences have opened administrative doors so that our requests will not fall on deaf ears. I strongly urge all students to participate in tomorrow's election. Familiarize yourself * Senior Representatives* seniors, our last year at Union will be one to remember. As a class, we should leave our mark as the ones who led the way to constructive changes. The 1985- 86 school year will be the time of the greatest change in years at Unio~. I am speaking of the pending national drinking age of 21. The Student Forurn and the administration will have to face this problem. To answer it, Union will need a com- prehensive new policy if we are to retain any vestige of social life. As a member of the Student Forum, I will support and work for our image as a viable academic and social institution. Dimmick As an active Union student, I have participated in many aspects of campus life. I have been on the Concordiensis staff for 3 years. 1 am on the WRUC staff, the Concert Committee, and have bee:n a member of the soccer team. My experience with the school covers nearly every academic department, and a Union term abroad as wen as fraternity membership .. St·anley F ... ·er· .re· nee I feel I will be able to add valuable insight to the Forum proceedings. I would appreciate your support. Bill Fenstermaker Fenstermaker For those of you future seniors who don't recognize this face, let me introduce myself. My name is Bill Fenstermaker. I can often be found working in the Pub, where I have been employed for the past three years. I am also involved in other activities including Vice President 85-86 of the French Club, co-subscription editor of Concordiensis, and even House Manager and Steward of my fraternity. If elected senior' rep., I will dedicate myself to the important job of representing the senior class within the Student Forum. Please vote for me because I will do a great job. And remember, EVERY VOTE COUNTS! ! ! ! .... Thanks. Ferrence None .of the present Class of '86 Forum representatives are seeking the same offices for next year. This opens up three positions that are critically important to the representation of our class and the school. I know the procedures and responsibilities of student government. The majority of forum meetings this year has seen my presence, and I have not hesitated to make my voice heard. My involvement with the Fi:lm and Elections Com- mittees, along with my interest in Union's affairs, has made·me aware of the processes by which our school is run. The ideas of my fellQw classmates along with my own will always be presented to the Forum. Our last year at Union will be a crucial one. Student input will be essential as we begin to deal with changes throughout the campus arising from the renovation of Alumni Gymnasium and the building of the College Center. Academic Affairs Council Representative· Kathy Keaveney Hi! My name is Kathy Keaveney. I am a junior and I am running for Academic Affairs Representative. Because of rnY widespread involvement on campus, I feel that I am very well qualified to serve in this dual position as a member of both the Academic Affairs Council and Student Forum. I have been a member of Homecoming, Parents' Weekend, and Social Com- mittees among others. I am also a Gatesman and a features writer for Concordy. In ad~ dition, I have served as treasurer and am currently vice-president of the Biology Club. Academically, I am a Biology major who has taken a wide variety of courses in everything from Arts and English to Physics and Engineering. I have lots of ideas that I think would improve the quality of life at Union. I would like to see some type of credit given for lab courses, more Liberal Learning courses in the Humanities and Social Sciences for non-majors, more courses involving in- ternships, and credit op- portunities for student initiated internships, just to name a few. I also feel that it will be very important for next year's Forum to work closely with the Administration to insure that the closing of Carnegie and Alumni Gym does not totally disrupt our social lives. Finally, I would like to en- courage everybody to vote .. I love Union and I would love to have the chance to put some of my ideas into action. I would also love to have you vote for me; but even if you don't, please vote! Keaveney Eric Scardina My name is Eric Scardina. I am a junior and am running for the position of the Student - Forum's representative to the Academic Affairs Council. As a student who has been actively involved in various campu,s affairs, I am confident that I would be a contributing member to both the AAC and the Student Formn. I look forward to working with the various members of both councils, and would appreciate your vote. Please remember to vote on Fflday. S(:ardina , ... with all of the candidates-. The College is providing the op- portunity for all of us to take part in a very important aspect of campus .activities. Don't blow . itoff. VOTE, and when you do, · vote Zuk. Thank you. I am looking forward to ac- cepting the responsibilities necessary to be an effective representative for the Class of . '86. Remember to vote at Carnegie Hall tomorrow! Ann Mullarkey HelJ? Cl.ass of '86! Mr name ~~ Ann Mullarkey and I am run- ~ ning for the position of Senior Class· Representative to Student Forum. There are a lot of significant changes going on at Union right now, and there will be a lot more made in the next few years. It is important that the students are able to voice their opinions about these changes and it is important that we have Senior Representatives who will successfully convey our ideas to the Forum and to the Administration. Even though next year is our last year here at Union it is still im- portant for our class's views to be expressed so that we can help make good decisions for the future generations at Union. I would like to be your representative because I would like to help improve the lines of communication between the students and ~ the Administration. As your representative I would be very willing to listen to and consider all of your ideas and to present them to the Forum and to the Administration. I am an enm thusiastic, dedicated person who wants to help make our senior year at Union great! Remember to vote on Friday, May 17--Your vote is important. Mullarkey v * 0 * TE

The the op- to take aspect on't blow you do, to ac- effective Class of. vote at t~ am run- of Senior to a lot going on there in the able to these rtant that convey and to Even ~last year still im- views to we can for Union. be your I would lines of the ~ the your d be very consider present to the an en~ person our great! Friday, . E CONCORDIENSIS, May 16, 1985 In order to insure the successful completion of our Hale House Kit- chen renovations, we had to vacate the kitchen. This was done to enable contractors to meet the deadline for reopening in the Falll985. During the Fall Term, we experience peak enrollment of Up- perclassmen ~nd Freshm~n as well as the highest pat:,ticipation on the meal plan. S1mply put, m the fall we have the largest amount of customers and the fewest missed meals. All this takes place at a time when we have lost our \seasoned veterans'/ (senior student managers and workers who have graduated) and are busy training completely new personneL · It is important that we all begin our new year in secure/ safe and sane surroundings w:ithout the din/ confusion and debris that would result from incomplete construction or unfinished 'facilities. The next two years wiH present some unique chaHenges for us all. There will be some inconvenince until the completion of our long- awaited. College Center. Because Spring Term historically has had both the lowest enrollment and participation in the meal plan, the followiong changes will be made: West College Dining Hall: Breakfast--7:30 a.m.-10:00 a.m. Lunch--11 :00 a.m.-1: 30p.m. Dinner--4: 30 p. m.-6: 30p. m. The Rathsl<eltar: Upperclassmen only Lunch--1V30 a.m.\2:00 p.m. Dinner--4: 30' p. m.-7: oo· p·.m. The Dutch Hollow Pub: Upperclassmen only Dinner--S: 00 p.. m.-6: 30 p.m. Bagged or Boxed Lunches may also be obtained, with 24 ·hours notice/ from West. On PICNIC days, everyone w~ll eat at West College. THANK YOU FOR YOUR COOPERATION! Delta Phi:'s MUG 'N BUG PARTY Fri, May 24, 4 p.m. Purchase of a mug, entitles you to bee·r, food, and a chance to win a Volkswagen Beetle Mugs available Monday, May 20 in Carnegie for $3.00 . • • I I Move Yourself, All Your Stuff, And Save, Tool Page 13 It's as e&Sf as renting. a Ryder truck, one way. Compare casu befOre yau make plans lior moving at tllr rnd of tbt! semrstrr: It you're 18 or oldrr and have a valid driver's llcrnse, yau can use a Ryder truck, rent-It-here. leaw:-it-there. Load up your sten:o,lO,.speed, clo~s;·e~rything. You'll still have room, no doubt, lbrone or toM:> friends with their things to share the cosL Compare that to the price of a plant! ticket. Or even a bus. Plus shippipg. · Rent a newer truck from the best-maintained. most dependa- ble fleet In the world_- Rydec The best ~k money can renL ..................... I IQ. ·I_ I ~~ I I Ryder Student Discount Card 1 1 1 15°/o Off One Way Rentals* I - Anywhere in New England 1 I Call The Ryder Dealer Nearest You 1 I · Must be reserved 7 day• prior to rental I 1 · Card must be 1urrendered sl time ol rental I L *Non applicable with other promotions I . ------------------- rl~ l RYDER· ....__ _ _ ____) RYDER TRUCK RENTAL 260 Burdeck St. Schenectady, N.Y. (518) 355-2981 Saturday, May 18 (12-6 p.m.) Bus Transportation provided leaving Carnegie Hall every 15 minutes (starting at 11:30 a.m.) Tickets Available at Carnegie Hall and West Dining Hall. Now $5.00 and $7.00, At the door $6.50 and $8.50. Mandatory Designated Driver affidavits i:!!- ....... ~~ available with ticket sales. Spo-nsored by Miller High Life

1,; ' . ' t ! ' ' :I :. I ! ' t; ,, . 'i ·' J Page 14 CONCORDIENSJS, May 16, 1985 THE ARTS Musical Weekend By KIMBERLY HANCOCK Staff Parents Weekend afforded an excellent opportunity for those students who have worked long hours perfecting their musical abilities to perform. Band, the parents were ready to continue their venturing around campus. The clock on Memorial Chapel struck one o'clock thus signaling the start of the witty performance of the Dutch Pipers. A large crowd gathered in front of the chapel, many (especially parents) not quite sure what to expect from the group. Parents roared at the Piper's antics which included a special dedication to them Which centered around the line, \How can I miss you if you won't go away.\ Other songs performed included Skellar favorite \Under the Board~ walk\ and a Union College medley, The Pipers, this time ''with tuxedos''· also performed at the dance Saturday night. The Dutch Pipers. are becoming quite a sensation on campus. Diabetes (Scott Bloom) and Hepetitis (Mark Wasserman) search for an ending to their puzzling play in God, now playing in the Nott this Thursday through Saturday. Although it was early Saturday, the new arts studio was filled with appreciative listeners who were treated to an hour of soothing CHAMBER MUSIC. The ·first of the three groups to perform was an outstanding woodwind quintet whose members were Joanne Berger,. Martha Phipps, Cathy Markes., Eric Scardina and Jackie Chyu. Follewing the woodwind's performance of Danzi's \Woodwind Quintet No. 2\ was an extremely talented string quartet. The. quartet's members, Chris Wu, Deni Rightman, Ben Haftel and Janice Thompson performed Mozart's Quartet in G minor. The last to perform was a brass quintet of Tom Christopher, Mark Richard, David Cevale, Janice Thompson and Anthony Holsten who performed Ewald's Symphony for Brass Quintet. Professor of the. Arts, Hilary Tann, was responsible for bringing the students together and organizing the Chamber Music Recital. After a long day of activities, parents retreated to Jackson's Gardens for the President's Reception. Entertainment was provided by the Jazz Ensemble aad their upbeat lively music resounded throughout the Gardens. As the parent~ mingled, the band provided an appropriate backdrop to end an eventful day. God: A Divine Comedy By MICKEY BRADLEY Arts Editor The first time I read God in Woody Allen's book Without Feathers, I didn't think it was a real play. It was just too strange: members of the audience interrupt the action, characters discuss the fact that they're fictional and were devised by Woody Allen, and no one seems to know where· to draw the line between reality and make believe. Plus it seemed too short for proper production-one act that took up less than sixty pages in the book. But Mountebanks has proven that God can be performed and, despite some flaws (mostly textual), that it can be done quite well. There are good things and bad things about the Nott's current production, but all in all, God offers an en- joyable evening of comedy, especially since the play's elative brevity has been COJllpensated for by an opening performance from the ever clever Court Gestures (whose portion of the show will be reviewed in next week's issue). The plot of God centers around a playwright and his actor \trying to devise the perfect en<~.ing to his play. Along the way, they encounter \serious philosophical questions\ that lead them to ponder the existence of an almighty being, to whom all men are ultimately responsible. I won't give away the ending, but I can tell you that Allen seems to be an atheist, though he does lNlieve in the Fates (Bob and Wendy Fate, to be precise, a wise-cracking pair of practical jokers). The Good Stuff: Woody Allen has done some very funny lines here and when those click, there's a lot to laugh about. Much of it is his trademark dry, cerebral hwnor that slips out quick and unexpectedly. In one scene, for example, one .of the Greeks invites a girl from the audience (Doris Levine, from Great Neck-as if that's not fwmy enough) onto the stage with him, and is suddenly lovestruck. The actor, Diabities, tries to talk hini out of it, reasoning, \You idiot, you're fictional, she's Jewish--you know what the children will be like?'' In another scene, he asks her if she's ever \made it with a fictional character before,\ to which she replies \The clos~st I came was an Italian.\ One- liners like that run rampant throughout the play, and though they tend to detract from the credibility of the characters and de-emphasize the action of the play, they're funny as hell. The student performances are never less than good-some of them very good (Marcy Wilder, take a bow)-and most of them have difficult characters to play. In Allen's search for the perfect pun- chlines for every occasion, certain concessions are made to character consistency; they play for laughs and not for credibility. But each- student does his job quite admirably and the directors have wisely tailored the show to the Union College crowd. For example, Doris, originally from Brooklyn College, is instead from Skid- more; Schenectady, nstead of 45th Street, is given as the theater's location; and the Nott is named specifically several times. They even changed the part of an irate Wall Street businessman planted in the audience to feature Steve Benson, who announces he's tired of being president of the Student Forum, and chases Jennifer Paston across the stage. These touches add a lot of personality to the play and are one of the reasons it's so en· joyable. The Bad Stuff; The plot of God aims big; it tries to be off- the-wall, cunningly witty, and carry a message all at once, but at times it comes off ridiculous. Not· an intriguing, wild kind of ridiculous, but · an irritating,. oversized kind of ridiculous. And there are occasional lapses in hwnor that remind you this is one of Allen's first works (he later explored many of the same themes in his short story \The Kugelmass Episode\ and his recent film \The Purple Rose of Cairo). It's a tough job to cover up in these areas and Mountebank's production doesn't always pull it off. But they do make an effective at- tempt at keeping the action flowing and making believeable characterizations of Greeks who have one foot in Athens and the other in Sardi's, which is no easy trick. Despite that high hurdle,. God is mostly a triumph for its cast, and they are to be even further commended for giving parts to students with no previous acting experience. The other problem with the play is that, given the wild hysteria that pervades throughout the play's un- conventional outline, it's hard to get involved with any religious message the author may be trying to relay. The major revelation that comes at the play's end is cluttered with a handful of other events that are so funny and strange, one gets distracted. This is only a small caveat, though, since the play's religious implications don't seem to be its main focus anyway. The Conclusion; Go see God. It's funny, well-done and certainly worth your attention. When it hits a valley, it can annoy but when it all comes , together, as it often does here, even the stingiest viewer should be able to find $3 worth of en- tertainment. Help Wanted . Write for Arts Catl6155 At noontime as the sun was -radiating 80 degree heat, parents were able to sit under the trees in Library Plaza and enjoy listening to the Union College Concert Band. The band provided music which allowed parents to take a refresping break from the day's activities. Show tunes, mar- ches, suites and movie music were among the types of music performed by the band. After their break with the Concert The last musical event of the day was the Union College Choir's debut in. Memorial Chapel. Their program con- sisted of eleven numbers ranging from Handel to Aaron Copeland which inlcuded \the college song\ and a mock-Bach piece entitled \My Bonnie Lass She ~melth\. The Choir per- formed vastly different styles and should be commended for its outstanding petforrrtance. The musical talents which were displayed on Parents Weekend served as a reminder that Union encompasses many multi-talented individuals. Mountebanks presents: The Second Coming of God .. I May 16, 17, 18 at the Nott Buy your tickets for the SENIOR FORMAL * * * at the- Gideon Putnam • Friday, May 24 Tickets will be on sale unti I Tuesday, May 21 in front of Carnegie or in Mrs. Marra's office $12 a person or $50 .for groups of 5 PRESENTS: ACT 1: Bob Katzman .. ACT II: Kathy .Zuckerman and Friends Master of Ceremonies: Bob VanVoris Shows at 9:00 and 11 :00 p.m. Thursday, May 16 Tickets are available today for only $1.50 * * * * *

to g around thus witty ~ Dutch gathered ~1, many quite the at the a them the line, u if you songs Skellar ~ Board~ College time night. campus. ~esident's was ~nsemble music out the parent~ an to end an of the College con· to Aaron \the Lass hoir per- styles for which Parents reminder many I CONCORDIENSIS, May 16, 1985 Page 15 ·;.,., .. , THE. ARTS Steve Landesberg ;.n Memorial Chapel ••• Mixed Bag of Laughs By MICKEY BRADLEY Arts Editor When I used to see comedian Richard Lewis on T.V. talk shows an the time (mostly Letterman), I · never once thought he was funny. Then last year a friend and I went to see Late Night when he happened to be a guest, and suddenly, he seemed hystericaL But back at home that night, watching the same show, he was just as unfunny as ever. The dif- ference, I now conclude, is that when you're submerged in the group psyche of a large crowd, there's a certain energetic excitement that can't be transmitted by television. To be there, to see and experience: that is what brings a per- formance into its own ap- preciation. And that's what I was hoping would happen with Steve Landesberg. Though I always liked him as Sgt. Dietrich on Barney Miller, his stand-up routines on television have rarely made me laugh. Seeing him in person, I hoped, might mak~ the difference, but alas, it didn't happen .... not completely, anyway. Landesberg's show on campus last week was a mixed bag of well-done routines and tired one-liners that had some memorable highlights, but was ultimately unsatisfying. Landesberg's major problems stemmed from an ill· formed rapport with the audience (he never really warmed up to them) and a hodge-podge mixture of material that attempted the unenviable task of entertaining both parents and students. I don't know if this affected the type of jokes he chose to do, but many of his ideas did seem limited and half-formed, as if he were only skimming the surface of many routines, instead of digging deep into any of them. A very large portion of Landesberg's material was ethnic humor (he hits on everyone from Jews to Blacks to Japanese) and though I consider myself a pretty liberal guy, I found some of it in questionable taste--mostly because he relied so heavily on it and partly because it is such a limited type of comedy. For example, his routine involving the Japanese consisted largely' of his imitation of a Japanese accent, and telling us how they all run around with a lot of cameras around their necks, taking pictures of everything. The bit got a few laughs, but playing upon such a well-worn stereotype without adding any new comedic perspectives can hardly be considered inspired comedy. Other times, he simply jumped too quickly from one joke to the next, as his sequence on English royalty, which had a lot of comedic potential that he left unexplored. But Landesberg's un- pardonable sin was the crime of tediwn; some of his jokes were Simply not funny and the whole show was more a series of quips than a fluid, cohesive progression of comedy routines. This was especially evident in the occasional patches of awk- ward silence as he finished one routine and .started the next- there was nothing to connect them. This lack of succession tended to separate the show and make it seem longer than the hour that it was. On the plus side, though, some of his jokes were very funny, such as his observations on country music awards, Swedish suicides (due in large part, he says, to Ingmar Bergman films and a steady diet of asparagus), and his stories of his days on ~atney Miller. His put-downs of . Schenectady and Union (ap- parently a pre-requisite of every comedian who .:;omes here) were also above average. I especially- liked his idea that \people are still being held prisoner (in the Nott.)\ He also took requests from the audience in one segment, that proved Landesberg has a very quick wit to call on when he wants to. On the whole, his spontaneous jokes cam-e off much better than the rehearsed ones, and that, at least, helped keep th.e show from being boring. That said, it's only fair to also note that I know several people who liked the show a lot. On the other hand, one person told me he didn't laugh once, and another, that she almost fell asleep. I wouldn't go that far-I laughed regularly throughout the concert-but I did find Landesberg's show a disap- pointing combination of witty humor and comedic missteps, with the latter seriously in-. fringing on my pleasure in the former. · Opening for Landesberg was Union's Jim Havard, a guitarist-singer-songwriter (talented in all departments) who has appeared many times at Cabaret. Havard gave a 45- minute set that displayed hiS diverse musical abilities: From the folk country lilt of James Taylor's \Country Roads\ to the pop-oriented style of Bread's \Make It With You\ to the Rolling Stones' melodramatic ·\As Tear Go ... , Campus Paperback Bes~sellers · 1. n. AquMMe PrograJIIOi.. by Robert Ludlum. (Bantam, $4.50.) Latest International thriller from the master of'lntrigue. 2. 1E.t to Win, by R~ HUa. (NAL/Signet. $4.50.) Winning through diet. s. 8mwt women, by Judy Blume. (Pocket. $3.95.) .Every woman\s GNrch for love, happinell and. a ~ningful life. -- 4. ,.... DrNma M'MII......,Ttilnga, by Bettce Breathed. (Little.Brown,$6.95.)Collectionoflhec0micltripsofthe80's. 5. The Jewllln 1hit Crown, by Paul Scott. (Avon, $4,50.) Life in India under the British Raj. . 1. In s..e11 of Excalance, by T. J. Peters & R. H. Waterman Jr. (Warner, $8~95.)tA look at the secrets of~ business. 7. Almoat.,_..., by Susan Isaacs. (Balantine,$4.95.)Nicholas and Jane Cobleigh and the generations that aired them. a. The Rold LAIN Trawled, by M. Scott Peck. (Touchstone. $8.95.) PsychologiCal and spiritual inspiration by a psychiatrist. IJ. Lord oflht Dance; by.Andrew M. Greeley. (Warner. $4:50.) Greeley's latest Betltaeller. 10. iJvlng. Lcwtr19 i.nc; I.Hrrllng, by Leo.BuacagliL (Fawcett, $5.95.) Thoughtl from lhe acclaimed California professor. By\ Havard was eJ{pert in capturing the proper feeling and mood of each tune. He also performed an original com- postion, written \for a special person that came up to see me from home,\ that showed Havard has a promising knack for writing, as well as per• forming. He politely encored with Neil Young's \Heart of Gold\ before turning the stage over to Landesberg and for my money, Havard's set was at least as worthwhile--if not more-as th.e headliner himself. ' ' Camp Union • IS Coming June 1 Steve Landesberg performed to a sold·but audience, on Friday, May lOfor Parent's Weekend in Memorial Chapel. Those Matinee Westerns By GAYLE ROSENFELD Staff \Rhustlers' Rhapsody\ is a tribute to all those Saturday matinee westerns of the 30's and 40's that immortalized the likes of Roy Rogers, Tex Ritter, and Gene Autry on the silver screen. Writer .. director Hugh Wilson (\Police Academy\) takes that genre and exposes it to audiences of. the 80's who may have mixed reactions after viewing this film. The picture stars Tom Berenger (\The Big Chill\) as the singing good-guy cowboy Rex O'Herlihan, a clothes horse and general good deed doer. He wanders the West encounterin_g the same- stereotypi~al characters--the pretty but assexual schoolmarm, the corrupt sheriff, and the town drunk (G. W. Bailey from \Police Academy\)- in each town. Marilu Henner (\Johnny Dangerously'') plays Miss Tracy, the saloon \hostess\ who collects quite a dowery by merely making lascivious comments to her patrons. Sela Ward (\The Man Who Loved Women\) is the nymphomaniac daughter of O'Herlihan's nemesis the sexually confused cattle baron Colonel Ticon- deroga played by Andy Griffith (\No Tome For Sergeants\). Veteran actor Fernando Rey (\The French Connection\) rounds out the cast as the railroad baron who sides with Ticonderoga to defeat the seemingly invinclble O'Herlihan and his wonder horse Wildfire. · \Rhustlers' Rhapsody\ takes a good idea-a homage to the westerns--and does an ad- mirable job of entertaining its audience. Anyone who grew up watching those B western double features will surely enjoy reliving some of those moments in technicolor today. Better yet, even those exposed to these westerns on television will recognize the familiar plot. But the film is not as funny as it could be although it could_ be argued that it should not be comic. ''Rhustlers' Rhapsody\ is an affectionate remembrance of a cinematic era gone by or at least one attempting a resurrection in today's market. Clint Eastwood's \Pale Rider\ is his first wentem in nine years and is due out in theatres this summer. \Lust in the Dust\ is another western to be released shortly. In any c.ase, \Rhustlers' Rhapsody\ is an enjoyable film partly because of its beautiful Spanish scenery and its cameo appearance by Patrick Wayne (John Wayne•s son), but mostly for its ride down the happy trails once again. \Rhustlers' Rhapsody\ was directed and written by Hugh Wilson, produced by David Giler and released by Paramount Pictures. It is rated PG and now being shown at Cinema 12, Crossgates Mall; Cine 1-8, Northway Mall; and Towne 1 & 2, Latham. WRUC 89.7 fM *STEREO Here it is; THE WRUC TOP 8.9!7. These albums spent the most time spinning c;-n WRUC's. turn- tables this past week. Clip this out and save. Collect th~ whole set. ~rade w1th ~our friends. Remember that calling up WRUC at 370-6151 and requestmg your favonte new music can affect the very nature of next week'~ chart. This Week-Artist, Album 1. China Crisis, \Flaunt the Imperfection\ 2. Tears for Fears, \Songs From The Big Chair\ 3. Prince, \Around the World in a Day\ 4. Cucumbers, \Who Betrays Me and Other Happier Songs\ 5. SADE, \Diamond Life\ 6. Velvet Underground, \VU\ 7. Game Theory, \Real Nightmare\ 8. Boomtown Rats, \In the Long Grass\ 8.97. The Three O'Clock, \Arrive Without Traveling\ Last Label Week WB Polygram 1 WB 8.97 FakeDoom 5 Portrait 4 Verve 8 Enigma 7 Columbia IRS Program Notes: Tune in to Jazz weekdays from 1-4 p.m. only on 89.7 FM ... Look out for WRUC tee-shirts ... Saturday at 9 p.m. is the WRUC album feature ... Hear a track from each TOP 89.7 album as they are counted down every Wednesday at 10 p.m. · -compiled by Evan Schwartz WRUC Music Director ... CI.J .0 :;) ... 0 \0 > 10 0 >< .0 0 0 .s:::. 0..

' . .! ' ' ' '~ ·' ' : \ I I I ~ ! ' '' '- Q) .a ::> '- <.!> Q) > Ill Cl >- .a 0 - 0 .J: c. Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, May 16, 1985 THE ARTS Jim Havard and Wendy Richards performed at Cabaret this past Thursday to a packed hous.e. Musical Notes .at Cabaret By BRIAN LAUX Staff The stage was set for ex- citement last Thursday evening. It would prove to be an evening of delightful melodies, talented vocalists, and an uneXpected revelation. There was a hush as the usually jovial Luke Fannon tooK the stage iil a somber mood. HE refused to tell jokes, or sing, or even to juggle... the crowd knew something was going on, something that was out of the ordinary. \I'm coming out of the closet,\ said Luke, after .a long silence. He waited, and then in a quick motion peeled off his sweatshirt to reveal his red and blue shirt Wlderneath- \I'm .a Dominoes Pizza Deliveryman!\ screamed Union Arts Presents Two Plays the Nott 8:pm Fannon... as the shocked audience· watched, amazed. After this, Luke proceeded to introduce the first act, vocalist Darcee Evans with pianist Julie Mountain. The duo opened with Streisand's \Woman in Love\ followed by \Easy Street\ and \My Heart Belongs To Me\. Darcee has a very pretty voice, and was accompanied very capably by J.ulie. Both should continue to grace the Cabaret room for many shows to come. Perhaps the highlight of Dar- cee's performance was her last song, \Memories\, in which she displayed very nice range, doing justice to a beautiful song. After returning from- intermission, the capacity crowd was given a rare treat, as they listened to what is probably the best Cabaret act I have seen in recent years. Jim Havard and Wendy Richards put on a brilliant performance, mixing an excellent selection of songs with exquisite harmony and guitar work {by Jim). It is difficult to find any flaws with Jim. As a g:uitarist, he is a strummer par excellence and his voice is beautiful-when you add in the voice of Wendy Richards, the end result is an unbeatable act. While it is difficult,to single out individual songs as highlights, I par- ticularly enjoyed their · treat- ment of James Taylor's \Carolina\ and Warron Zevon's \Hasten Down The Wind\ not · to mention the Eagles' \Peaceful Easy Feeling\. Incidentally, Jim was the opening act for Steve Lan- desberg on the following evening. If this act performs again I would urge people to come see them, in fact both acts are not to be missed. Micro-Music By JANICE THOMPSON Staff Ron Kuivila, artist-in- residence in experimental music at Wesleyan University, utilizes electronics in ways that are both subtly and strikingly theatrical, drawing upon characteristics and idiosyn- crasies inherent within his sophisticated home-made-h- ome-modified, equipment. The composer uses electronics to produce fascinating,, ex- perimental music which is often a new and unique experience for the listener. Simple movement and pitch inflection is processed through this equipment, so that it is transformed into different musical sounds. Ron Kuivila uses such things as radio an- nouncers, oscillating fans, and single words as subjects for his compositions. The composer received his M.F.A. at Mills College, and his ItA. at Wesleyan University, He has been employed by ZBS Media as a recording engineer, and by Media Study-Buffalo as an artist-in-residence.. He served on the Advisory Board and as the Chairman ef Com- puter Music for New Music America. He has performed in munerous places, including the Lol'tdon Video Arts, the Boston Museum School, and the Third Coast New Music Festival. He has also recorded his music on two albums, Going Out With Slow Smoke (with Nicholas Collins) and Fidelity, under the Lovely Music label. Ron Kuivila will present a concert, Music With Microprocessor,· at Union College, Performing Arts Center in the Arts BUilding at 7:30p.m., Friday, May 17, 1985. This performance will be the last in the Union College \Traditions of Improvisation\ concert series. A note of thanks to everyone who participated in Parents' Weekend--which means the whole campus--we cou/dn,t have done it wi(hout you! Again, thank you, Lorraine Marta SUMMER TREE / by Ron Cowen lWay 22, 23, 24, 25 I ·Am A Woman by Viveca Lindfors May 28, 30, Ju l

ed by ZBS engineer, as .. He ~ory Board of Com- Music rformed in the the Boston the Third estival. He s music on Out With Nichol~s , under the present a ~ With at Union Arts at ay 17, 1985. will be the College ' ~ave l u CONCORDIENS.(S, May 16, 1985 Page 17 SPEAKERS The Union College English Department and Idol, . the student arts magazine~ are pleased to announce a poetry reading by William Hathaway and 'Jordan Smith, Thursday, May 16, at 8 p.m. in the Humanities Building Lounge (2nd floor). The reading is free and open to the public. A reception will follow. ·· CLUB NEWS - - Newman Folk Group-Sunday evenings at 6:30 p.m. All singers ar,d musiciaas meet with Friar Paul to prepare for the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. New memiJers w~lcome. Ne\vman Meeting and'Social,.... Monday, May 20 at 8 p.m., 4th floor Lounge, Carnegie. This will be a brief end of the year meeting with election of new officers. Prayer-Scripture Group-- Wednesday, May 22 at 11:30 a.m. with Sr. Joan in 4th floor Lounge, Carnegie. Tutorial Program-Any Union student interested in tutoring one hour a week at St. John the Evangelist School please contact Liz Karazim, 3704377 4. Confirmation--SATURDAY, May 18 at 6:30 p.m. in St. John the Evangelist Church. Congratulations to the seven Union students being confirmed and to the student sponsors! CLASSJREDS . . . Looking for a babysitter this summer at Lake George. Great place to spend smnmer, great pay, great experience plus ,many extras. Interested? Contact C. Nolan 377-3107 or Box 69. . LOOKING FOR AN , · APARTMENT for the summer? . . There is now available a 2· person apartment located on . University ( 4 . minutes from campus). It is in excellent condition, and very reasonably . priced. If you are interested, call .372-7838 or 370-6484. Union Colleg~e Investment Alliance Meeting Thursday Mav 16 • 4:30 Conference Room A Anyone Interested Encouraged to Attend! * HANDMADESILVERJEWELRY )\\' Imported INDIAN CLOTHES & GIFTS Complete Une of PIPES, SMOI{.ING ACCESSORIES & Imported CIGARETES & TOBACCOS Imprinted ROCK & ROLL-GROUP 'I-SHIRTS Anyo.ne interested in participating in Orientation · Cabaret please contact Mark 6964 ·as soon as possible. Get involved. Any~ne welcome. Furniture store needs strong help to do work pertaining to furniture such as deHvery, window changing, moving furniture, general main- tenance, etc: Helpful to know how to drive van. Part-time. Ras Furniture, 823 Eastern Ave. CaH .374-7785. SOPHOMORES, Re-elect STEVE LIPSKY to the Student Forum as Junior Rep. Let experience speak for YOU!!!!! Sophomores--el~ct Mickey Bradley as your Junior Rep! ! ! To Union Crew-Good job this weekend, and for the whole season. Let's keep the spirit up for next year. GET PSYCHED FOR CREW '85-'86! What will Late Nights be without Lauren? Congratulations. We love you. We hate you. Women's vat'sity four-have ' you told John about all the The Remaining Two A&J The Film Committee money he will be saving on your presents: \The Revenge of the uniforms for next year? After Nerds\ on May 17-19 at 7, 9, 11 all, they have already been To Those Sending \Chain\ Letters: A series of \Chain\ letters have been circulating on campus through the studeRt mailroom. The volume of these letters has increased dramatically during the last week, slowing down the delivery of . important mail. Your cooperation is needed to restore some degree of order to the mailroom. Please stop sending these letters. Thank you. and ''The Creature from the U.S.R.A. and canoer approved! Black Lagoon\ in 3D on May 21 at 7, 9, and 11 iR SS016. Tickets available at Student Box Office. V0te STEVE MOSS for Vice President for Administration on the Student Forum. Vote .for EXPERIENCE! ! ! CAMPUS NEWS . Cong•ratulations to the following participants of the 1985 Hunger Walkathon: Sister Joan Viaun, O.P. for having the most pledges from Union and St. John the Evangelist com- munity; ~usan Gorga '86 for being the t- •urth fastest walker; Tom Haven '86 for being the fiftfu· fastest walker. PERSONALS Congratulations to the soon to be brothers of Kappa Sigma. I know this is early, but it's better than late! Ann-If you beat me it's all over for Gumby and Pokey ... Your Roommate Is that a gazelle or Barry Cohen sprinting gracefully down the baseline?? Happy Birthday Big Guy! ! ! Jim- I hope it's not as bad as you said it would be. Your secret admirer Road Rtmner: Toot-toot !...hey, Let's play mon ... now. beep-beep! backgam- -Beehive Men's Lax ... Don't forget to bring cups next Tuesday. -The Champs Boo-Hoo! Now I'm down to two in the fall, Lauren. I love you-CONGRATULATIONS! Love, Scoop A.B. Hang on. We'll be together soon. A.B. FALL TERM PREREGISTRATION PROCEDURES The procedures for fall preregistration will be the same as those used for the spring term. Each student has been assigned a specific time to preregister. Preregistration will occur in Silliman Hall and will involve e·ach student meeting with a member of the Registrar's staff. Preregistration materials (the \Pr~registration Course Request Form/1 and a list of courses) will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning Monday, May 20 . Students should review the course listing, consult with their advisers, and select the courses they wish. It would be advisable for students to have a fourth and fifth choice in mind in case one of their first three choices becomes unavailable Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These are referred to as 11 1ist\ courses and are indicated on the course listing by an asterisk. Lists for these courses will be posted by the relevant departments on Wednesday, May 22. Students should sign the list to indicate an interest. Students should then return to the department on Friday, May 24 to find out whether or not they have been admitted. Those students admitted to a list course must secure a co'urse registration card from the department. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PREREGISTER FOR A \LIST\ COURSE WITHOUT A RESERVATION CARD. THESE ARE THE ONLY COURSES THAT REQUIRE SUCH CARDS. Preregistration for senior thesiS or an independent study will require written permission of the supervising faculty member. The date and time for each student's preregistration appointment will be printed on the label affixed to their \Preregistration Course Request Form.\ Students will not be allowed to preregister prior to their assigned time. Preregistration will conclude on Thursday, May 30 and no late preregistration will be permitted. Additionai course c.hanges may be made during the Drop/Add period at the start of the fall term. Students will be admitted to Silliman Hall at the time printed on their 11 Preregistration Course Request Form\ (this form must be brought to preregistration). Once inside they should verify that the courses they desire still are available. If so, they should ensure that their form is properly filled out and then see a staff member who will preregister them. If one or more of the courses they desire are closed, they should select new ones, correct their preregistration form and then see a staff member. It is hoped that t·his process will take a student no more than ten minutes at the most. '· .. AJI yo\ ~ids 1r:xiJ y do ;s srl- ctv-ovn:::f and wo+ctt --f..l1ar dattt .f1;t..e. Pu1- -lkrf fht~ mr aY't:/ 9 e1- k t?.«i.. !'101;1/ A

' .. . ; ' ' . ' . ' ' ' ' l ~ 't t ' .,. ' i ~ \' .. I ·•\ f ,! ' : I, l I I, '- ·::} ! . ' .i i I . ' : ~ :r. . '' ... [ ' -~ I l \',· ' ·,li'; ., ' ~: ' I .. I PagelS. COLLEGE MAINTENANCE CO. \We Fix Anything\' • Lawn Clean-up • Painting • Carpenter.y • Landscaping • Small Applionce Repairs e.Piurnbing • Windaow Glazing No Job Too Small FREE ESTIMATES Reasonable Senior Engineering Students CALL MIKE 382-9688 JOHN 382·9159 RESTAURANT AND BAR Thursdays Iced Teas $1.00 SENIORS! The New York City Alumni Club invites all seniors who wiH be living in New York City after graduation to attend a \N.ight at the Ballpark: Yankees vs. Orioles\ on Wednesday, June 26. Tickets are $10.00 each and must be reserved by May 30. For more details, call the Alumni Office at 6168. Come See Delta Gamma . Olympics WHEN: Friday, May 17th AT : 2 : 30 p om o ON: Library Field All proceeds to benefit Sight Conservation and Aid to the Blind FUN! PRIZES! RAFFLE! it a l!l DRAGON GARDEN Chinese and American Restaurant 120 Mohawk Ave. • Scotia, N.Y. (518} 377-6637 \One of the Top 10 Restaurants\ \Without a doubt, this is the BES.T CHINESE Restaurant in the Capital District\ - Knickerboc.ker News 120 Mohawk Ave. Scotia . '~ . CONCORDIENSIS, May 16, 1985 Union College Film Com mitt~e Concert Committee Present THE FIRST ANNUAL BEATLES F·ILM FESTIVAL TONIGHT! 10:00. 55016. • Beatles Saturday Morning Cartoon • Magical Mystery Tour • let It Be .Tickets $1 in Carnegie au• I I-·- -·-·-·-·-·;_,_,_ - AII-I . ,_,_ 'liiD- -I I II- ·-·-·-·-·-·-·-~-·-·-·-i FOUR SEASONS CHINESE_RESTAURANT t Phone: 393-5440(393-544 1 Hours: Sun-Thu 11 : 30-lO: oo J Specialize in Cantonese, F ri -Sat 11 : 30-11 : 00 I Closed Mondays Szechuan & Hunan Take Out or Eat 1 n I We preJHlre our foods with ••• ! Just a Little.Bit of Luck and a Whole Lot of experience We're in Walking Distance 1 0% Student Discount for Take Out Orders Only W /Student I. D. 183 Nott Terrace: Across from Holiday Inn 11!-•-•-a-a ... •-•-•••-•-•-illilill••-•••- ••••e- ••-•-sDta-••:a-•-•-a-nar - ,_ Vehicles Included In the Plan. You may choose a new 1985 Thunderbird, LID, Tempo, Mustang. Escort. Bronco II or light trucks up to F'250. •J'n'-Approved Credit. Just meet three simple conditions: 'I o You must have ·verifiable employ- ment that begins within 120 days of your vehicle purchase at a salary sufficient to ordinary living e>q>enses and your ~hide payment o You must have proof that you have graduated or will graduate · and be awarded at least a bachelors deg;-ee within 120 days. Your credit record, if you have one, must indi- cate payment made as agreed. ..$400 Purchase Allowance. Make your best deal...use the $400 as a down payment or receive a $400 check directly from ford alter the sale. Call Dennis J. Hurley, Jr. Orange Motors Company,lnc. 799 Central Avenu~, Albany, N.Y. • 489·5414 . I . l

D- ., - BY JAY GROSSMAN Sports Edit()r Congratulations goes to junior Chris O'Donnell, captain of the outdoor track team, as this week's athlete of the week. O'Donnell turned in a time of 9: 25.1 in the steeplechase which was good enough for him to become the New York State Steeplechase Champion. Union was able to place 6th of 22ieams in the New York State meet. The record qualified O'Donnell for the National Chl:!mpionships. (Div. III) at Dennis University, which begins the week of May 22. O'Donnell's best time in the steeplechase is 9:15.1, a school record. A 3 year letter winner in outdoor track, O;Donnell has been the team captain for the past two years. Last year he turned in a steeplechase time that made him 3rd in the state. In cross-country, he has been a Athlete of the Week 2 year captain and was also chosen most valuable player -of the team for the past 2 years. On the indoor track team he has been captain. of the tea~ for the 0 .,_ 0 .c 0. Cl - en Chris 0' Donne.ll past 2 seasons, finished 5th in the state in the 1500 meters in 1983-1984, 3rd in the state in the 3000 meters in 1984-1985 for which he also holds the s~hool record. CONCORDIENSlS, May 16, 1985 Page 19 Track team coach Russ Ebbets feels that O'Donnell's success is due to his hard work and .consistency of effort. Ebbets said that O'Donnell has been a pleasure to coach and that he has been able to ac- complish everyting that has been presented to him. O'Dorutell is hopeful to gain all- American status at the National Championships, and Ebbets feels this is a very realistic goal for O'Donnell because he is in excellent condition and has been fresh or all his races. The steeplechase is a grueling distance event in which the runners must clear unmovable barriers and water pits. O'Donnell seems to have mastered this event because·of his ability to combine his long distance running ability with excellent jUIIlping power, which makes the event so difficUlt. Chr-is O'Donnell is an electrical engineering major who hails from Montpelier, Vermont. Josh Greene On Sports It wasn't the Super Bowl, the World Series or the presentation of the Reisman; however when the doors closed last Saturday to Memorial Chapel the ·event was billed standing room only. The annual Union College Prize Day ceremonies bad com· menced, to honor students for distinction and achievement earned both in the classrooms and on the ballfields. Dressed in their finest, a handful of Union hopefuls sat beneath the podiwn with their ears pitched to the sounds of the microphone. With each award the Chapel filled with applause easily overwhelming the feelings of shock and elation coming from the recipient and his family. Debbie Hodin, Brian Cox, Rebecca Clemente, Nat Harris, Peggy Petro, Wayne . McDougall and Dan Stewart all took their respective strolls to the podiwn receiving what they had worked so hard to earn. service to the college. Clemente's achievements this year include leading the women's basketball team in scoring,. captaining the seccer team for the second straight year and starting for the women's lacrosse team. Nat Harris, a senior starting pitcher for the baseball team, was the next honored. Harris received the Fred W. Bruhn Award given to the member of the varsity baseball team who has made the greatest con- tribution in terms of in- spirational leadership, sports- smanship, team and college loyalty, and service as a player. During his tenure here at Union, Harris has been the mainstay of the Union pitching staff, notching twelve wins against just six losses while main- taining a solid E.R.A. around three. . Men's Track Places 6t,h in NYS The Terri Lynch-Jackie Havercamp Cuttita Memorial Award is given to the freshman female athlete who has shown desire, dedication, sport- smanship and inspirational leadership on the fields of competition as well as in her daily life. This year's recipient, Debbie Hodin, hails from Lexington, Massachusetts where she was a stellar per- former on the soccer and lacrosse fields. Here at Union, Hodin has not missed a beat, she has performed admirably for Coach Charlie Morrison's lady hooters in the fall and for the lacrosse team in the spring. Following in the footsteps of last year's recipient Cay Lynch, Peggy Petro was a warded the Robert B. Ridings Prize, given each year to the senior female athlete for her attitude, ability, participation, and achievement in intercollegiate .sports. Petro has been a four-year starter for the women's softball team. She has provided the Dutchwomen with reliable fielding from the shortstop position and timely hitting from the leadoff slot averaging nearly .385 for her Union career. BY ANDYHODGKIN Sports Staff This past . Saturday at Fredonia in Western New York, the· Union men's track team took several individuals to compete in the outdoor track State Meet. Despita several mix-ups and setbacks the Dutchmen scored a total of 39 points to place 6th out of a total of 22 teams competing. The only State Champion produced by Union on Saturday was Chris O'Donnell in the steeple chase. O'Donnell, who has qualified for the nationals this coming weekend, was able to take first place with a time of 9:25.1. Another outstanding performance was turned in by senior Winston Britton in the 400 meter dash. He placed 3rd in the meet with a time of 49.24 in the finals. His best race came in the semis when he ran a 48.50-good enough to qualify him for the Audino ••• Continued from page 20 Union came back twice to defeat Hamilton College 5-4, and then after trailing Colgate 4-0 in the 2nd inning of the championship game the Dut· chmen battled back to win 5-4 and capture the tournament championship. Audino considers the Union College baseball program to be one of the most dedicated in Division 3. Although the school gives the team little funding for their \spring training\ trip to Florida, the players are still willing to use their own money to finance the trip. According to 0 - 0 .c:: 0. a en Audino, \Without our trip to Florida, and the team's efforts to improve down South, we would have never done as well as we did.\ With the 1985 baseball season being the most successfUl in Union College history, Audino is confident that quality student athletes will be attracted to Union, and the program will continue to improve. · Finally, coach Audino hopes that the baseball team will get more recognition from the school and the community. Coach John Audino \Come Bake in the Sun\ This Saturday at 1-:00 p.m. at the 69th Annual . ADPhi Porch Party . Live music ·provided by: - Big F eachers and Net Wt. Refreshments will be served all day ~ 0 .c:: 1- C!i nationals. Union's 3rd reptesentative at the nationals, Scott ~emillard, was one of Union's two multiple scorers. He placed 3rd and 4th in the hammer throw and discus with throws of 177ft. and 143ft. respectively. Also tallying twice was freshman Wayne Lacy. Lacy placed 6th in the Decathalon and 3rd in the pole vault with a vault of 13 ft. 0 inches. Other scorers for Union were the 4x100 relay team. The quartet of Todd Allen, Britton, George Capaozzi and Cecil Bright placed third in the relay wjth a time of 43.35 seconds. In the 1500 meter run, Mike Reed placed 5th with a time of 4:01.83. RESTAURANT AND BAR Thursdays Iced ·Teas $1.00 E ttl ... ... o· .J >- .0 ~ .c. c. Brian Cox, a senior out of Norwood, Mass., was the first of two of Coach Bagnoli's gridders to be honored last Saturday. Cox was awarded the Ronald F. Plumb Memorial Prize given annually to the member of the varsity football team who best exemplifies the qu~lities and characteristics of Ronald F. Plumb '80. Cox was a four-year starter of defensive end for the Garnet, netting fifteen sacks in 1983 to set a school record. This year he was voted the \Defensive Player of the Year\ by the New England Football Newsletter and was selected as a \Little All Am,erican\ by the Associated Press. U the Union College Prize Day could be compared to the \Triple Crown of horse racing, then surely Rebecca Clemente would be the odds-on-favorite to rWl for the roses. Last Saturday Clemente received her second · Prize Day award, she received the Terri Lynch-Jackie Havercamp Cuttita Memorial Award as a freshman two years earlier. This time around it was the Eastern College Athletic Conference Medal of Merit awarded to the junior female athlete who has combined excellence on the fields of competition with excellence in the classroom, or outstanding Captains of the Softball Team Angie Mic~e<; and Peggy Petro receiving the award for 3r'd place in the NY SAl AW Championship. · Wayne McDougall, Union College's answer tu a im- penetrable fortress was the recipient of the next award. McDougall, from Guelph, Ontario, was awarded the William A. Pike Memorial Trophy given annually to the junior male athlete for attitude, ability, participation and achievement in intercollegiate sports. McDougall from his familiar spot between the pipes, has backboned the Skating Dutchmen each of the last two seasons posting school records in wins, saves and save per- centage. With McDougall returning for his senior cam- paign already having rewritten many Union College hockey records, one question still remains unanswered: Can McDougall turn in another stellar season and · guide the Union College hockP-): team to the National Championship which has narrowly eluded our pucksters the past two seasons? Last, but not least, came the presentation of the William B. Jaffe Medal presented each year to the outstanding senior male athlete of the year as voted by the Athletic Depart- ment, taking into account the character and motivation of the individual. This year's recipient of this award was Dan Stewart. Last year Dan received the William A. Pike Trophy. His accomplishments include setting a N.C.A.A. record for consecutive games with at least one touchdown pass at twenty- seven, guiding the Dutchmen Football squad to a 31·9-1 record during his four years, and the offensive MVP of the 1984 STAGG Bowl. In addition, Dan was a four year member of the men's varsity tennis team . Congrats to All Spring Dutchmen!

'r' J • ,, ·. ' . ' I ,. ·:' ! . ; ' ''f . ' i ,' \'.· I ,j \, ~ ' !I I ·''I Page20 CONCORDIENSIS, May 16, 1985 SPORTs· r------GARNET SCORE BOAR I;) .... _ _,_..........,.__,,..... Lax Turns in Best Year Since '78 Union 6 Williams 7 Union 16 · May 7-14 . MEN'S BASEBALL (16~9}' Hartwick 3. By MARKLEYTON CPSIS The Union men's lacrosse team, corning off an 8-6 victQry over Hartwick, has secured its first winning season since 1978. In a game that was too close for comfort, the Dutchmen pulled away from Hartwick late in the game to capture the victory. Essential in this win was the strong fourth quarter play of rookie goalie John Thorne, who had a less than .average first quarter yet held strong during the second half. Perhaps the most noteworthy was Marc Ehudin's third goal, giving hlm 100 in his four years as a Dut- chman. This being the last game of the season for the laxmen, it was also the last game for the graduating seniors who undoubtedly wete the cornerstone of the team. These rJ) rJ) included co-ca.ptain Marc Ehudin, at attack, the leading scorer for the Dutchmen, who was aided by Eric Kaye who assisted on the majority of Ehudin's geals; Tim Clorite and John Carl, two solid mid- fielders; and the. starting defense composed of co-captain and scoring threat John Drake, Todd Johnston,. and Tim Meyer. These six seniors will be sadly missed in upcoming seasons, and as coach Toop stated it will be hard to fill their shoes next year. However, the Dutchmen do have considerable depth. At attack freshmen Phil Horn along with sophomore Jim Olney will be aided by Will Peirsol who was injured this season. Junior Mike Weisberger and sophomore Andy Ross will lead. them midfield. Returning for the defense are sophom_ore Mark Leyton and freshmen Gary Cornick and Craig Miller. Also returning is starting goalie John Thorne. Yet perhaps most important is the return of coach Mike Toop who was a major reason for the turnaround in the lacrosse program. He taught the team how to win and because of this, no one was satisfied with an 8-6 record, even though last year's team was only 3•9. Thus, led by Toop and new captain Andy Ross, the laxmen could figure into the ECAC playoffs next yeat and eventually go on to the NCAA's. ... beat RPI 16-0 Hobart 10 Union 7 Union 8 Union 4 Oswego9 Union 7 MEN'S LACROSSE (8-6) WOMEN'S LACROSSE 02-4) MEN'S TRACK (2-2) NYS--6th.of 22 teams MEN'S TENNIS (5-5) Union 3 · Rochester 5 Union 0 Hobart l Hartwick 6 Oneonta 2: Union 3 · New Paltz 6 39 points Union 7 Wiltiams 7 · Middl.eb11ry 2. Union 2 Ruggers Finish Seas.on at 10.;..1 By J.R. FORTUNATO Sports Staff The rugby team beat R.P.I. in both games of the Parents' Weekend match this past Saturday. The A-side mauled the men in orange, beating them 16-{). The B-side team crushed their opponents, scoring 21 points, and giving up only 8. captains. A similar comment should be made about the team's rookie of the year, Jeff Afbrecht. His first year out, he has contributed an enormous amount to the team's success, pulling down the throws in the line-outs and driving hard in the serum. He deserves the recognition of this would-be award no less than his co-captains: . the day. HOwever, there were two Union players who stood out in the game, scoring for R.P.I.- those players were Ed Hart, who was making his debut after a shoulder injury, and Ste:ve Cole; who played well despite his shoulder bruise as Well. Look for some of these guys next fall-Jeff, Tommy, Tim, and Ed. They promise great potential: Ql .... a.. r The first part of the first game was out of the ordinary- Union did not score until the end of the first half, playing slop- pily. But after a pep talk given . by line captain Scottie Collins, the team really pulled together- -or, they really watched Scottie pull it together for them, scoring twice in the second half. The line captain's running would have left any opponent looking silly. He slipped and slided his way past the defen- ders as though they were standing still, drawing all sorts The B-side played very_ well, despite the fact that they played against mostly Union ruggers, w:Qo stepped into help out a weak R.P.I. B-side. The key players were Jeff Zorn, a former running back, who scored twice, Tommy Muz- zonegro, who almost scored his The rest of the entire team also deserves some words of appreciation. They have brought good things to Union, a place where bad ball in rugby was the norm. When asked about the amazing success the team has enjoyed this year, the +- .... 0 u V) >- .D 0 .... 0 J:: a. Senior co-captain Mark Ehudin has been the main force in the team's turnaround. Ehudin scored 100 goals in his 4 seasons for the Dutchmen. . . . best season in Union history Audino Reshapes Batmen By C. SLOTNIK Sports Staff The 1985 Union College baseball team is waiting to hear from the E.C.A.C. selection committee about a possible bid for post season tournament play. However, regardless of whether they do or don't receive a bid John Audino and his team have a lot .to. be proud of. The 1985 baseball team ac- cumulated the most wins in the history of Union College baseball, as the Dutchmen finished with a record of 16 wins against 9 losses, which included winning 12 of their last 15 games. Much of the success of this year's ~earn can be at- tributed to head coach John Audino. Audino has been the Union College baseball coach the past 3 years, and under his tutelage the baseball team's record has improved con- sistently from 3-11-1 in 1983, to a respectable 9-6 last year, and a most impressive 16-9 this spring. One of the keys of this year's team is the reflection of Audino's hard work ethic on his players. While an un- dergraduate at Notre Dame, Audino was a walk-on football player. After three seasons of playing on the team as a walk- on, he was awarded a football scholarship his senior year because of his hard work and determination, for Audino realizes that it takes more than skill alone to fonn a good team. Speaking about this year's squad he says \We have good players, not great players, but our players know how to win, want to win, and are aggressive.\ Moreover, Audino stresses the importance of being on top of each situation at every moment of the game to his players, since in fact baseball is a game of situations. He em- phasizes the help of assistant coaches Mark Morris and Peter Brown in preparing his team for each game. Audino feels he has improved as a coach this year, and has \a good person to person relationship with his players\ rather than just the usual \player to coach\ relationship that exists on most teams at this level. Audino's ability to see the need for change is evident by his shifting of the infield after the team got off to a .sluggish 4-6 start. He switched Tim Alibozek from 2nd base to shortstop, Andy Markopoulos from shortstop to 3rd, and Pete Cohan from 3rd base to 1st base. These changes initiated the turnaround of this year's team. Although the team batting average has dropped to .280 this• .... year from .327last year, Audino E stresses that strong pitching ti:; and good defense made the ~ difference this year. \In the \'iO past we've lost many one-run ';:. games, but this year our pit- .J:J ching has enabled us to hold off ~ opponent threats in the late a innings.\ In the recent Empire Cup Tournament at Glen Falls Continued on page 19 of \ooos\ and ''ahhs\ from the impressed spectators. His style contrasted the tough-nosed style of his serum counterpart, co-captain Doug Bawngarten, wfio was the bull who ran it in >- ..0 0 ... 0 s: a. for the first try of the game, running off of the flanker, Jim McNeil, as though he were ~ executing an off-tackle play in ~ the American version of the ::i! sport-what's that called? The two of these guys deserve more recognition than they have been getting this spring-at least in this column, that is. The two players wete beyond a doubt the key to Union's success this year, and deserve the award given to players of their caliber- -the most valuable player of the year award. But since Rugby is Senior co-captain Doug Baumgarten grabs the ball in game vs. RPI. Junior John F~iske moves in to protect Baumgarten. Union had an '84-'85 record of 17- L the type of sport in which the players play for the fun of it, and not fot the glory, we have no such award. But the message remains clear. Congratulations, first try ever, Tim Hopkins, the amazing kicker who also kicked two conversions in the A-side game. There were others who scored, but were unfortunately · overlooked in the excitement of Junior Tim Riley carries the ball upfield along with Senior Rob Israel this past weekend. speedy back, Steve Konlian said, \I don't know, but it's a sin, when Union ruggers, they don't win, it's a simple philosophy they employ, against opponents, seek and destroy.\ The Dutchmen leave this season With a 10 win and 1 loss record, and with a year record of 17 wins and 1 loss. Moreover, they have taken both the Division 2 and Division 1 championships--congratulat- ions to all. Support, Union Sports

elected student many have after the closings party. sub- in ~ policies goal as to future ~s of the body .. a leader bout the year the body. phomore of 1988, going on in the nion? your derstand for our ac- ~ Seniors? as ones? things ative who ~s\ to any AN COCK Forum a y 1 7 , 1 9 8 5···~·····-···············:·········-················ The famed Fitzhugh Ludlow, author of Union's Alma Mater. \Just·Tryon to Make it Through U. II A Look at Fitz and James By KATHY KEAVENEY FHL Committee On Friday, May 17, Union College and the Fitzhugh Ludlaw Day Committee will proudly honor Rear Admiral James Rufus Tryon, class of 1858. Fitzhugh's last and most distinguished roommate, , Fitzhugh and James · lived together in the hallowed halls of North College, Room 45, during the spring of 1856, Fitzhugh's last term at Union. The two men alsa lived together in the old- fashioned equivalent of a \bachelor pad\ in New York City for two years following James' graduation fram Union in 1858. At that time, Fitzhugh was a struggling poet and writer while James was at- tempting to establish himself in ·what was to become a very noteworthy naval career. James Rufus Tryon later returned to school eventually earning a medical degree, perhaps one of the first of Union's many multitudes of pre- meds to do so! ! This degree was to serve him well as James Rufus Tryon was to later become the Surgeon General of the United States Navy during the late nineteenth century. Tryon also quickly rose to the naval rank of Rear Admiral, the hjghest rank possible far a Navy man. It is unclear from the records of Tryon how active he was as an alum. It is clear, however, that he enjoyed both Union and Fitzhigh Ludlow tremendously while he was here. Of Fitzhugh Ludlow, Tryon is quoted as The History of FHL Day · saying, \He was conspicuous for his uniform good nature, affectionate disposition, brilliant talent, unbounded enthusiasm, marked generosity, congenial companionship, keen sense of hwnor, simplicity and courage.\ Also, ''My associations with him as a roommate for a term in college, and afterwards in New York City for two years after his graduation, are the choicest middle of his class or a little below, and he failed, as he playfully laments in one of his poems, to be elected to Phi Beta Kappa, which took a relatively larger number of each class than chapters do today. He always got the highest mark in (a 5) in Conduct; but in Analytic Mechanics, in his first term, he got a 2, and in a subject named 'Electricity Etcetera' he received a 3. But in his three Senior terms in a subject called 'Kames' he got a 5 every time. This was the famous course given by President N ott, required of all Seniors. It was named for a textbook, Lord Kames' Elements of CritiCism, in which the Scottish law, lord, and friend of Benjamin Franklin had written a theory of aesthetics based, it is said, upon Newtonian physics. But the course, like many a college course today, owed less to the textbook than it did to the ex- pounder. It was really a course in Eliphalet Nott, that amazing man, who, in 1856, at the age of eighty-three, had already presided over Union .College for Reprinted from Concordiensis, May 11, 1984 ·Fitzhugh Ludlow Day was first celebrated on April 21, 1979. When first conveived, it was meant to accomplish three major goals. First, it was to be a buffer for the apathy covering the school. In a time of heavy feelings, Fitzhugh Ludlow Day was celebrated to pr·omote sutdent interaction. Second, it was to be organized by a committee of individuals doing something for the school rather than themselves. The com- mittee was anonymous, therefore the members could not use the committee for resumes ot transcripts.. Third, and most importantly, Fitzhugh Ludlow Day •was to be non- alcoholic. This is to show that fun can be had without the help of alcohol. It is important that it is noted that this day is not anti- alcoholic. . As Fitzhugh Ludlow Day approaches, we would like to remember those other worthy Union graduates who have been honored on this day in the pa~t. In the beginning, it was Fit- zhugh who honored himself. Four years ago he .. became more traditional and honored squire Whipple. In 1981, two Union graduates were honored: Robert A. Toombs and William H. Seward. And in 1982, Fit- zhugh honored Henry Wykoff. Last year, Mrs. Perkins became the first woman to receive the honor. Fitzhugh himself enjoyed Union immensely. An 1856 graduate, he spent his days and nights in pursuit of good times as well as academic excellence. The Hasheesh Eater,. his most well known literary work, was written with a sincerity and a reality which he later had trouble recapturing. His \habit\ gave scope to his literary gift while in school, but it nevertheless led to his demise. Onion's Alma Mater was written (perhaps under the influence) while he attended the school, and will always be a strong remembrance of Fit- zhugh Ludlow in the hearts of all Union graduates. Squire (a given name, not a title or a nickname)· Whipple was a civil engineer and an 1830 Union &raduate. Quite different than Fitzhugh, Whipple graduated 18th out of 96 in his class and was perfect in at- tendance and conduct. He began work for the railroad as a civil engineer and was given the task of better bridge design. One of his many ac- complishments in/ this area spans the \brook that bounds\ behind Achilles Rink. The Whipple Bostring Truss was patented in 1855 and Whipple was recognized as the man who practically created the modern art of bridge construction. William H. Seward was from a hamlet ih Orange County in New York and came to Union because of the reputation of President Nott. In the 1820's, Union was the college choice of more undergraduates than Yale or Harvard. A good share of them came from the South. One of these student.s, Robert A. Toombs, was to become part of a unique combination--two men from the came college serving concurrently as the Secretary of States. It could only have happened during the Civil War when Toombs (1828) was Secretary of State for the Confederacy and Sward 1820) was Secretary of State for the North. Toombs became the chief clerk for Jefferson Davis and soon after the war reswned a law practice. Seward left a more notable mark in history. He was governor of New York, a United States Senator, Secretary of State, and (his most notable accomplishment) was responsible for the pur- chase of Alaska. Henry Wykoff was a colorful character indeed. Of dubious origin, his birth and paternity were both carefully and suc- cessfully concealed. He graduated from Union in 1832. Early in his life he inherited a considerable fortune which enabled him to travel ex- tensively. It was said that no other American of his period knew as many European notables as Wykoff. His in- terests were many--politics, diplomacy, journalism and theatre. The Reminisences of an Idler ( 1880) his most im- portant literary production, included many charming anecdotes and profound ob- servations of his life prior to 1840. He wrote of his years at Prfuceton, \I doubt if I could have learned any less if I had ~ been allowed to linger four years longer in Princeton, and to bask in idleness under the lofty shade of the fine old campus, the pride of the college.\ So much for the academic quality of Ivy League schools. Two years ago, Anne Dunbar Perkins was honored by Fit- zhugh. Affectionately known as \Mrs. Perkins,\ she was the wife of \one of Union's most respected professors,\ Professor Maurice Perkins, as well as mother-in-law of Professor Hale (of Hale House fame) with whom Mrs. Perkins resided after the death of her husband. She is most well known for her garden which is located next to the Skellar, and for her colorful spirit which made her a very well liked person at Union. Last year Fitzhugh honored Isaac E. Jackson, Union class of 1826, and founder of Jackson's Garden. \Captain Jack\ as Jackson was nicknamed by President Eliphalet Nott, became ·a . Professor . Mathematics at Union in 1831. As Professor he wrote numerous books on subjects such as Trigonometry, Conic Sections, and Mechanics. Professor Jackson wrote these books simply to help his own students, he did not care whether anyone else ever read or published them. While Jackson is best remembered for his madnificent garden, there was much more to him. He was deeply involved with the workings of the college and he he .spent much of his life working to see Union become and remain a success. And so Fitzhugh is in business again. This marks the seventh annual celebration of Fitzhugh Ludlow Day, a day of food, fun, music and merriment. Can you think of a more deserving host? FHLDay Honors James Rufus · Tryon (Fitzhugh's roommate) memories of my life. His in- dividuality made an impression on me I have never forgotten, and a thought of him now is a renewal of youth aad sacred memories.\ A super person Fitzhugh Ludlow obviously was, a truly dedicated student and scholar he was not. Fitzhugh Ludlow first came to Union College in April, 1855, to begin the third term of the 1854-55 academic year. According to the College records, he was admitted as a member of the Junior Class on \dismission from the College of New Jersey.\ The word does not mean 'dismissal.' Some of the boys who transferred to Dr. (Eliphalet) Nott's college did so because their own colleges would have no more of them, the Doctor having a reputation for succeeding where others had failed. Unkind critics of whom there were a few, even called Union College \Botany Bay.\ Fitz, however, was no penile exile from Princeton. Nassau Hall had burned down in March, 1855, compelling him to find a new college to attend. It seems that just as Union was. lucky to claim Fitz from Princeton, Fitz came to con- sider himself lucky to have a home at Union. At Union, Fitz stood in the fifty-two years. One of the assignments in the course, besides reading Kames, either in his own original form or in the digest surreptitiously handed on from Senior to Senior, was declaiming one's own composition in bfore the class (apparently somewhat like writing one's own thesis!). Fitz, whose first and best book was to be written and published when he was only twenty-one, in the year in which he had graduated from Union, must have excelled in the exercises and won the Doctor's recognition. The old man still knew talent when he saw it, and it is probable that the high marks in Kames, Fitz's scholarship grant, and his literary ability were all somehow related. When they were not studying (which apparently was most of the time! ) Fitz and James seem to have many of the same complaints about Union that we all have today. To one who, a hundred years after, recon- structs from old letters, diaries, and college catalogues the daily life of the Union students it sounds grim enough. It was not uncommon to arise at 5 a.m. for a little study before chapel and breakfast. Chapel must have been at about six; at any rate, Continued on page 2A

! ' '·I ' I , l • ·.\I \ Page2A FITZHUGH LUDLOW DAY, May 17, 1985 - a:; u 0 - .... Ill :::> - <f) >- ,;::> 0 +- 0 .c C:c Prof. 1 hom as of the Forei,gp..Languages Dept. has been the Faculty Advisor-for Fitzhugh Ludlow Day for several years. Everyone Must bring Their Meal Card and I.D. in order to eat free at the barbeque If you are not on ·the meal plan, dinner will cost you $2. - Library Field - a.~~~~~&~~&~\~~ Song to Old Union by FitzHugh Ludlow Class of 1856 Let the Grecian dream of his sacred stream. And sing ojthe brave adorning. That Phoebus weavesjrom his laurel leaves At the golden gate of Morning: Butthe brook that bounds thro1:1.gh Old Union's grounds Gleams bright as the Delphic water. And a prize as fair as a god may wear, Is a dip jrom our Alma Mater! Chorus Then here's to thee, the brave andjree, Old Union smiling o'er us, · Andfor many a day. as their walls grow gray~ May they ring with their children's chorl:.LS; Cou,ld our praises throng on the waves of song. Like an Orient fleet gem-bringing. We woul(i bear to thee the argosy. And crown thee with peals of singing; But thy smile beams down beneath a crown Whose glory a:s'ks no other; We gather it not from. the green sea-grot- 'Tis the love we bear our mother! Chorus Let the joy that falls from thy dear old walls. Unchanged brave Time's on-darting. And our only tear falls once ci. year On hand that clasp ere parting; And when other throngs shatl sing they songs. And thei,r spell once ,more hath bound us, Our jaded hours shall revive their flowers. Enioy the Day! And the past shall live around us. Chorus ~ .............. ······· .............. , .................................................................................. ······:: We're ''tryon'~ to : get you in The FHL Committee invites to you to .•. your yearbook . .. · So Come Shoot Celebrate \U~' By KATHY KEAVENEY FHL Committee The Fitzhugh Ludlow Day Conmiittee proudly presents a day full of _special en- tertainment surprises. We have it all from water balloons to rock bands, from ice cream to- fireworks. Along with the day's entertainment highlight, the Stampers, the Committee gives you a star-studded collection of student performances and activities. The day's celebration begins with the traditional ringing of the Memorial Chapel bells at 12:00 noon. Also beginning at 10:30 a.m., FHL tee-shirts, featuring the ever popular comic strip characters Fresh- man and Larry, will go on sale. There is a very limited number of these great shirts available so be sure to have your money ready early. At 2:00 p.m. the first of a series of gigantic games will be started. This game, emceed by the charming Karen Shanley, and announced by the fun-loving Barry Cohen, promises to be a fm1-filled event with lots of laughs for all. This game will be repeated periodically throughout the afternoon depending on student interest. Let's all show up and give it a TRYON!! At 2:30 p.m. the air will be filled with \flying ' Water Balloons,a great chance to come on down and assault vour friend! At the same time, a non-stop Volleyball Tour- nament will begin in front of Schaffer Library, certainly a super way to show off your athletic prowess. To keep the action going, veteran FHL committee member Carolyn Gilbert will organize Pie-in-the-Face. Another terrific chance to 'thank' all your friends for a terrific year at Union! Throughout the afternoon, beginning at 1:30 p.m., the Union Dutchman will be available for a Shoot Yourself, a perfect chance to make sure that you appear in a 1985 Garnet candid. Highlighting the day's events, and undoubtedly drawing the biggest crowds of the day, will be FOOD! Ice cream will be available all day for the un- believably low price of a quarter. You sure can't beat that!! From 4:30 to 6:30 our illustrious professors and ad- ministration members, renowned throughout the greater Capital District for their amazing culinary talents, wm be serving up scores of burgers and dogs. Union College student talent will be on stage from 3: 30-4: 30 p.m. with a SEC~ET AND SPECIAL SURPRISE EVENT featuring a band we all know and love. (hint, hint: Jim Hassenfeld, Steve Dockery, and friends) So make sure you're there or you'll be sorry you missed it! · And then ... at 4:30 sharp, the event we have all been waiting for, made possible through the endless work ofthe now famous promoter Tony DeMartino, .... THE STOMPERS!!! Need I say more! Following two rocking hours we can all settle down to a slightly more mellow evening featuring the deejays from WRUC and the ever-adorable Dutch Pipers, as we await the final event of the day brought to you by yours truly in conjunction with Empire Stat_e Fireworks, THE FIREWORKS!!!! Be sure to come on down and 'watch- the sky glow; the famous, or in- famous, Nott Memorial nevt}r looked so good. After giving credit to so many deserving people I would be remiss if I did not mention Jacquie Dunbar and Paul Malatesta, FHL chairpersons Without your suave mail messages and abundant lists none of this would have been possible. Thanks! So, Union, at 12:30, when the bells toll, come on out to Library Plaza and give yourself a pat on the back ... you deserve it. You have almost made it all the way through another year at U!! The Fitzhugh Ludlow Day Committee thanks Prof. Thomas for all his encouragement and humor. Yourself! 1:30- 3:30 Library Plaza . . . . .................................................... , .......... ., ...................................................... . Fitz and James ... Continued from page lA during the winter months it was often too dark to see to call the roll, a: truth which the students were no doubt familiar to their advantage. College food was poor (even then! ! ) and digestive ailments were common. A diarist of 1850 wrote of the Sunday morning fare: \We had quite a poor breakfast as usual for Sunday morning- cold meat, coffee, has}), bread toasted but not hot, and butter, this was the whole.\ .Sometimes 'Old Jack,' whom we best remember for Jackson's Garden made the boys recite 'without our breakfast--until after 8 o'clock.' In such an at- mosphere it is not strange that even the temperance lectures enthusiastically promoted by Dr. Nott were listened to \with ecstacy and delight\; or that the diarist of 1850 wrote ' '0 what a treat it would be to a student to have a female friend to cheer up his drooping spirits (obviously this was in pre- Skidmore days!!); or that the drooping spirits were oc- casiEmally revived by such pranks as stealing the College bell.\ Despite these every day hassles, both Fitzhugh and James were to remember the college of two widely spaced buildings on a bitter cold am .. barren hill with great ten- derness. Fitzhugh hoped to return as a professor, and when this hope was frustrated, he wrote to Professor Jonathan Pearson: \Union has always been one of my idols; I have hardly ever seen the time, even when my prospects in a worldly point of view were most flat- tering, when I would not have abandoned them to t·eturn to the pleasantest home of my life.'' Those were not as they may -Sound, the words of a middle aged man; when Fitz wrote them he had been out of Union only five years. He was to look back at the carefree days in North College with longing and nostalgia for the rest of his life. In a similar way James Rufus Tryon was often heard to remember· Union with fond memory and a smile. Does all this sound slightly familiar? It has .often been said that \the more things change the more they stay the same.'' This is certainly true of college life at Union. As we salute Fitzhugh Ludlow and James Rufus Tryon and their many accomplishments we should all remember that when-you come right down to it both Fitz and James, like all of us, spent their college years JUST TRYON TO MAKE IT THROUGH U!! l !

: • . . cold am .. ten- to and when he Jonathan always I have ime, even a worldly flat- not have to the my life.'' may a middle wrote of Union to look days in nging and of his life. Rufus heard to fond slightly been said gs change he same.'' of college we salute James many should all come Fitz and spent their ~RYONTO U!! l! FITZHUGH LUDLOW DAY, May17, 1985 Page3A FHL Tradition Lives on Today ByW. T.SMYTHE One of the original purposes of Ft!tzaugh Ludlow Day .was to teach students something about Union's history. Elsewhere in this .issue you are being given a somewhat abbreviated version of Union's history, so let me correct and complete it, while giving you a snort lesson on campus architecture. A view of the N0ft on a beautiful spring day. Let's hope the weather holds out for Fitzhugh Ludlow Day! Although it is true that Fit- zHugh and James Rufus Tryon were roommates, it is also true thatth~y had a third roommate, my uncle, Eustas Smythe. Uncle Eustas was basically a very nice guy and thus was willing to .put with some of FitzHugh's peculiar behavior. He really didn't mind that FitzHugh went on enough trips to make him a travel agent, but he was violently allergic to smoke, and after one par- ticularly violent coughing fit, he decided that it was time to move. Being rich enough to enjoy the life of the perfect syrarite (that's aN SAT word), he decided to build his own house. Professor Huntley was good enough to sell him a piece' of land at the corner of Huntley Lane and Library Lane, and there he built Smythe House. By the way, it is not true that Tryon found the manuscript of the alma mater; rather, it was Uncle Eustas. When going back Don't forget to buy your Fitzhugh Ludlow Day T -shirts Available at Carnegie Hall 10:30 . ? !~5.00 . The Day's Events - Library Library West Fiel,d 10:30 ' 11:30 12:30 1:00 1:30 2:00 Giant Twister 2:30 Game 3:00 All Day 3:30 4:00 t 4:30 Barbecue 5:00 4:30-6:30 5:30 6:00 6:30 7:00 7:30 8:00 . 8:30 9:00 Fireworks . HE:Y FRt=.s~.ri\A.N - I • Wf-IKI5 THIS p..eovT , Frrzl4VGH LVDLOW D~Y? T Carnegie Hall T-Shirts All Day Graffiti Bd. all day Ice Cream All Day Pie-in- the- Face 3:30-5:00 . Beach - Volleyball The Stompers . WRUC YEA.\-1·· HE p£.AV'~D roan!. AU.. O\DN'f HE:. -r Nott Plaza Shoot . ·vourself Water 1 :30-3:00 Balloon Toss I rJ-t ftT DoEs N r M ftTit.R, L 11 R. 12:. Y . 1 t~.lf·fft T 's - rMPOR.Tf!IVT IS TJ.IF\T tT $1-tOW.S Tv:ST How VA!...uA:gLe. A G,ooV ROOMMA-~ ~gLATIO~~JSI-IIP GAtJ BE! \- to his old room to remove his bar, he discovered that Fit- . zHugh had left his b- on the bar. Lifting it off, Uncle Eustas found a yellowed piece of paper containing the words to the alma mater. Now that you have swallowed that one, here is another historical fact: it has never rained on FitzHugh Ludlow Day. While I am at it, I should correct one misimpression: FitzHugh was not against alcohol, far from it. But he also thought that once a year, it would be good for him to rest his liver and have fun for a whole day without drinking. And that is why in 1979, he decided to create a day to honor himself. So here we are for the seventh year, an anonymous committee (well, not quite, since it's hard · to be anonymous when the co- chairs are both over six foot five) bringing you another fabulous tee-shirt, games, pie- in.-the-face (the first person to get near me with one is in massive trouble), graffiti boards, a great band or two, and fireworks. It's the same stuff we bring you every year, more or less, which is why FitzHugh Ludlow Day is part of th~ Union tradition. Enjoy the day. And if you feel drops, don't worry. It isn't raining. Gala Firework Festival 9:00 at the Nott I Do k.J 1 ra uc.t-1 ME; 1\'\At-J! \ 1\\-\\S F\Z\DAY \S F'tTZHU<;H LuDL-OW DAY·

. ' ,·, ·,,1 : \ . : : · r 1 · . ··1' ,·' l ' I ''', '-:•' Page4A FITZHUGH LUDLOW DAY, May 17, 1985 some roommates are more agreeable than others ... '- Poetry by Fitzhugh Ludlow Th·e Terrace Song Again in this good old College I sit as in days of old, When I shook the tree of knowledge And it rained down pi·ppins of gold. And though I coined none of those poppins, To the shape of a Phi Bete key, Yet their fragrance is none the poorer In the hQards of memory. A Memorable Encounter The Boys of Union There's Princeton in the Jerseys And Dartmouth at the poles, And in Hamilton College their knowledge By JOY RUNYON Associate Features Editor Roommates--who could do without them? Probably everyone who has them, right? Even Fitzhugh Ludlow had a roommate. Granted, his roommate probably was a very good one, providing Fitzhugh with all the narcotic incentive needed to write our· Alma· Mater. (Rumor has it that Fitzhugh had been inspired by a particularly mind-altering substance.) But not everyone has such great roommates, do they? Consider Carrie Daniels (\not her real name\). Her first sight of one of her suitemates was not all that reassuring. Her father wasn't pleased, either. \Is that your roommate?\ he whispered to Carrie, suspiciously eyeing an 18-year- old girl with fuchsia streaks of dye down the sides of her partially shaven head and wearing tartan-plaid baggies, a blue-and-black striped irridescent shirt, and combat boots. Carrie shrugged nervously. \I guess. I dunno.\ She turned and carried one of her boxes into the other bedroom. Her father followed her, shutting the door behind him. \Carrie that girls looks like an axe murderer! You have to live with her?!\ Who's the numb-- skulled dimwit who threw these roommates - together,' he wondered. He opened the bedroom door cautiously to see if the axe murderer was still out there. She was; she stood with a cigarette dangling out of the corner of her mouth, taping together some wires on her stereo in the commonroom. The door to the suite opened and in came the third roommate with some of her baggage. She looked into the two bedrooms. Her mother walked in shortly after, observed the situation, and hauled her daughter into Carrie's bedroom, setting her stuff on the bottom bunk. Ten minutes later, the last of the suitemates carne in, sur- veyed the territory, and went into Carrie's bedroom to see if there was an extra bed in there. Unfortunately, there was not. She resigned herself to rooming with the axe-murderer. As she was unpacking her stuff, the axe murderer (whose name, they all found out, was Morticia Adams) stalked in and in- formed her, \I value my privacy , very highly. Remember that, and we won't have any problems. Okay?\ Buffy nodded without meeting Morticia's stare. Soon all the parents left, leaving Buffy, Carrie, and Daphne to fend for themselves against Morticia. Meanwhile, down at . the westward end of the hall, there was a scary scene a-happening. The four suitemates in room 822 were all there. A more eclectic group could not be found on all the campus. There were Philippe, Torruny, Jimbo, and Lou. By god, it was the scariest collection of suitemates you'd ever hope to come across! Tommy ran around the room with his lacrosse stick, chasing Philippe and screaming like a banshee. He had an ugly crewcut. The beer in his other hand sloshed all over the carpet as he bounced, jumped, and galloped about the room . Suddenly, he stopped and asked, \Does anyone here have a paper on Plato? I hear we have to read that book for some class.\ As no one even bothered to answer his plea, Tommy simply clammed in an empty beer can. Philippe hooked up his tape deck and blasted some ancient Elvis Costello for the listening pleasure of the entire campus. Tommy made a motion to turn off the tape, but Philippe en- couraged him otherwise. \Hey man! That's my tape deck you're messing with! Get out of here!\ he snorted in his most arrogant affected British ac- cent; he was really from Durham, North Carolina. Jimbo and Lou watched with amazement at who they had the misfortune to room with. Lou went to the bedroom and kicked around in the dirty laundry which Tommy had brought to college with him. Jimbo stayed in the commonroom where all the action was, but took care to duck whenever Tommy's out~o£­ control lax stick threatened to split his head like a soft pum- pkin. \Geez you crazy man! Look out!\ he yelled when the offending stick came too close for comfort. So go the room assignments in freshman year: roommates not chosen by any particular criteria, haphazardly tossed together, left to work out their problems all by themselves. It's a god-eat-dog world out there in those dormitories, don't let anyone tell you otherwise. But with the right attitude you can make your way. Because there. are only a few more weeks left, we won't go into that attitude. Just try to bear with it. Chances are, your roommates ( suitemates) feel the same way about you, so don't complain. Anyway, back to our old friend, Fitzhugh Ludlow. Fit- zhugh was no dummy. He knew how to get his inspiration. That's why Fitzhugh Ludlow Day {this Friday) is dedicated to the memory of his roommate. Don't let Fitzhugh fool you. The Grecian dreaming of his sacred stream and Phoebus weaving his laurel leaves are really old Fitzhugh himself, hallucinating by the fountain in Jackson's gardens and weaving fanciful daisy chains. So be grateful for roommates. Is fed to infant souls. The University of New York Is .Gotham's sacred den: But its Universe is mighty \skurce For it holds but twenty men! p_ap of The person with whom you live next year just may turn out to be. the one who gives you the proper inspiration to write some type of school song. Only four more weeks! Pub and Skellar will be open at 9:00 Fitzhugh Ludlow Day Committee & Mercury Recording Artists present May17, 1985 at8:30 WEST BEACH A Party With: CRAIG FOWLER AND THE ANTITHETICAL DIVIDING RABBITS featuring: The Killer Bunny Horn Section

Hartwick 3. Union 3 Rochester 5 · Union 0 Hobart 1 Hartwick 6 Oneonta 2: Union 3 · New Paltz 6 39 points \iddleb~:~ry 2 Union 2 ~r, there were who stood out £or R.P.I.- Ed Hart, debut after and Ste:v:e well despite as well. these guys Tim, great entire team words of They have to Union, a ball in rugby When asked success the this year, the in game vs. Union Konlian it's a sin, rs, they don't they leave this ~in and 1 loss year record Moreover, both the Division 1 CXIV, No. 23 - '- tp .2 r.ll > .c E 0 J: 0. Congressman Dellums; a_ Democrat from California, focus-ed his talk on the struggle for peace and justice. Bulk Rate U.S. Postage I;» aid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 May 23, 1985 Congressman Lectures On U. S. Policy Issues By PETER LEVENTHAL · Staff On Monday, May 20, 1985, the Minority Dialogue Series continued its program with a visit from maverick Congressman Ronald V. Dellums, Democrat from California, who spoke on the continuing struggle for peace and justice in 1985. Afterwards he held an impromptu question and answer period. Dellums is a former vice- chair ·of the Congressional Black Caucus and ·heads the C.B.C. Task Force on National Security and Foreign Policy. He is a former member of the Democratic National Com- mittee, an associate national chair of the New Democratic Coalition, and the chair of the task force on national security and foreign policy issues for the Jesse Jackson presidential campaign in 1984. party lines, \We are dropping bombs in North Vietnam that are exploding in the ghettos of America,\ he paraphrased from a quote by black leader Martin Luther King, Jr. Dellwns opened his address by focusing his talk on three points the quote invoked: the technology of war, the men· tality of war, and the resulting priorities. Ills of Hazing Addressed Legislation that Dellwns has sponsored includes the World Peace tax Fund, the Adequate Income Act, the Omnibus Penal Reform Act, the Omnibus Intelligence Community Reorganization and Reform Act, and a number of bills dealing with the. environment, women's rights, and tbe plight of senior citizens. He has alsG brought suit in Federal District Court to force the withdrawal of U.S. military advisors from El Salvador, to terminate the C.I.A.'s covert actions in Nicaragua, and to challenge the illegality of the U.S. invasion of Grenada. Because of developments in weapons technology, Dellums believes that this planet is in imminent danger from the potential of thermonuclear war. He bases his belief on three points: First, the production of nuclear weapons is going beyond the point of being a deterrent; second, because the nuclear arsenal is becoming more sophisticated and · ac- curate, it makes arms verification more difficult; and third, the deployment of weapons in Europe decreases the margin of computer verification. By STAFF On Wednesday, May 15, the Theta· Delta Chi fraternity sponsored a workshop on anti- hazing entitled \Hazing: An Outdated Ritual.\ This workshop featured a haU-hour videotape of Mrs. Eileen Stevens whose son was killed in a 1978 hazing incident at Alfred University and a talk on the -• 1. klgai implications of hazing by \''llvoy attorney, Charles Carletta. Carletta pre~ented the legal aspects of Hazing. First he read ·the New York State's law and then explained its meaning and enfofcabnity; relating the law'' to ~ituations which could possibly occur. TDChi president John Knowles was pleased with the audience's response to the presentation, notably the questions and the proposed examples. Knowles was also impressed by the attenda,nce at the presentation (about one hun- dred). He commented, \I think it went beyond our~and the administration's-el{pectati- ons.\ Assistant Dean of Students, Robert Massa, feels TDChi has done an excellent job throughout their anti-hazing program and that the presen- tation Wednesday night was a success. Massa would like to see a similar program staged each year and feels that this is just the beginning of the anti-hazing movement on campus. Additionally, Massa he pes that TDChi's efforts will contribute to an attitude change at Union. Following Wednesday's program, Massa, along with K umalo Opposes Apartheid • • • Dean of Students, Joseph Mammola, will meet with fraternities and sororities to define hazing and its reper- cussions. Massa would also like to invite Mrs. Stevens to be the keynote speaker at the annual Greek Alumni Conference in October. He would like to bring speaker David Westol, a prosecuting attorney in Michigan, to Union as well. President of the Inter- fraternity Council, Patrick Vernich, felt that the presen- tation was \excellent.\ He explained that the organizers \tried\ to show the dangers of what could happen. They also stressed the fact that it's up to the individual houses to address it themselves because they're the ones who are ultimately responsible.\ Divesbnent Advocated By JONATHAN BLOOM Contributor Dumi~ni S. Kumalo, a for- mer resident of South Africa,' gave an enlightening yet shocking account of the cruelty and injustice of the Apartheid (pronounced a-par-tide) system. This talk was part of a series of speakers and films dealing with the political crisis on southern Africa. He also explained the necessity for foreigners to divest from companies doing business in South Africa. Because Kumalo is opposed to violence as a means for social change, he feels that · divest- ment is the only way to press the government to abolish the Apartheid system. - The first half of his presen· tation dealt with his life and hardships growing up in a black to\Vnship outside Johannesburg. Kumalo described how his father, a migrant wor'ker, was only allowed to see his wife one month out of the year. When Kumalo himself got married, his wife was deported after only three weeks of marriage because she was a member of township. The government _made it very difficult for him to Kumalo believes that divestment· is the only way to press the South African government to abolish the Apartheid system. see his wife, he said. As a journalist in South Africa, he wrote many articles exposing the conditions of black migrant workers in the mines, the· use of child labor on iarms, and the abuses of police power in detention. Following police harassment, he fled South Africa in 1977 for the United States. He presently resides in Flatbush, Btooklyn. Kumalo answered many common questions on the issue of divestment. Will companies pulling out of South Africa leave many blacks unemployed? He said that most ·Of the employees of companies like Ford, International Business Machines, International Telephone & Telegraph, and Coca-Cola, operating in South Africa, are whites. Those who say that they do not want to divest because they do not want to hurt blacks are wrong because the only people that would really be hurt he asserted, would be the whites. Kumalo did not say that divestment is the best way to achieve social change, but it is the only way .he and other non- violent opponents of Apartheid know to force the government of South Africa to relinquish their racist control. This series of guest speakers and films on Southern Africa is sponsored by the Minerva Conunittee, Phi Beta Kappa, Campus Ministry, and the departments of history, economics, and sociology. A maverick in CQ....ngr.ess, his presentation was marked with a down-to-earth grassroots quality and conviction that transc~nded congressional By the end of the present administration's term in 1988, there will be forty thousand nuclear warheads in the ar- senal. Dellums feels that if Continued on page 3 Mark Bernstein '84 experiences pie in the face during Friday's Fitzhugh Ludlow Celebration. Election Results *-See page 3- * Need a Date? *-See page 6- * .... Q) .c :J ,_ 1.!) '0 ·:;: ttl 0 > .0 0 .... 0 J: 0.

... . , I : .·I I ~ .. I I ' ~ : ,., ... '·. '. . ' '. :: f . I \i . ' ,\ t I I ,, ,, ' CJ \0 0 - ..... rc ;:I - Vl >- .0 0 - 0 .c a. Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, May 23, 1985 Handling Sexual Harassment ... Dean Provides Guidelines JJ. \;d . President-elect of the Student Forum, Chris Siler, comments on her ideas to improve the forum. Ever since I became involved with the student Forum i.n my sophomore year, I have wanted to be its president. I consider myself very fortunate to ha've been given that opportunity., and I hope to guide the Forum next year in the best way possible. Next year looks very promising-- with some experienced members as well as some new faces on the Forum, we should have a diverse and yet cohesive enough group to see the campus through the beginning of its transitional period. Already we have been working on sort of a \master plan\for 11ext year of things we would like to see done. In particular, Junior Trustee Andrew George and I have been discussing the importance of the social atmosphere on campus next year. We would like to conduct a study on the effects of coed living and the effects of fraternities and sororities on students. Not only would we hi.ghlight the positive aspects, but we would like to look in-depth at the solft'ces of pressure created on campus for drinking, dating, etc. Area Coordinator J. Bebb has expressed interest to future Vice-President Steve Moss and me in having the dorm councils taken more seriously and possibly for- ming an interdorm council as well as an off-campus association. We feel that this would create a more active relationship 'between students and Residence Life and get more people involved in the issues important to Union. Vice-President-Elect of Finance Beth Bernell will do a very good job with the activities. I feel that one problem that we have at Union is not that we don't have enough activities, but that we don't make the best of what we have. It is up to the students to help themselves, and as your elected leaders, the Forum is more than willing to take part. Along with the social aspects, the Forum will focus on the most important aspect of Union, academics. I would like to see us continue along the path that our current president, Steve Benson, is interested in, and that was \To Better Our Union\ by getting the activities more involved with academics (by having more speakers, films, etc.). Also of central importance to the entire student body is our relationship with the administration. I would like to see it as less \we\ and \them\ but more \us working together for mutual goals and a smooth year. \Hopefully the best has just begun ... \ Two changes to the Constitution were approved by the student body on May 17: By LINDA RAFFAELE Editor-in-Chief Sexual harassment . . . it is a problem here at Union as well as on college campuses and in work settings across the coWltry. In a 1984 survey of 400 women at union, one third of the 96 respondents indicated that they had experienced sexist treatment by male faculty- administration. 53 percent reported sexist treatment by male peers. Dean Joanne Tobiessen says, ''We want to provide information, support, and offer ways to correct the situation .for those who are affected by sexual harassment.\ Last week's article on sexual harassment entitled, \Harassment Defined\ provided a definition of sexual harassment. This week we will look into ways to deal with it. Gloria DeSole, Assistant to the President for Affirmative Action at SUNY Albany, spoke on campus a few weeks ago on the subject of sexual harassment. In her visit, she provided a list of steps to take if you feel you have been sexually harassed. 1. Say No. Say it firmly, without smiling, without apologizing. 2. Keep a diary or log. Write . down what is happening to you. Include direct quotes, any witnesses, or patterns to the harassment. Have your log witnessed periodically. Save any letters, cards, or notes in a secure place, preferably at home. 3. Ask other people who come in contact with the harasser if they have ever. been harassed or if they know of anyone who left because of this behavior. 4. Tell the harasser, in writing, that you object to this behavior. Describe the specific things which offend you or upset you . Keep a copy of this letter. Revisions to the Constitution of the Student Body Of Union College Article IV Section 6 Three senior, junior, and sophomore class representatives shall be elected during the spring term to serve a one-year term in office during the following academic year. Of the three representatives from each class, the .person receiving the highest number of votes shall be class president, the person receiving the second highest number of votes shall' be class vice-president, and the person receiving the third highest number of votes shall be the class treasurer. Two freshman representatives shall be elected during the third week of winter term to serve the remainder of the academic year. Of the two representatives from the freshman class, the person receiving the highest number of votes shall be class president, and the person receiving the second highest number·Of votes shall be class treasurer. Eleven class represen- tatives shall represent their respective classes on the Student Forum; three of the class representatives (one senior, one junior, and one sophomore) shall also represent their respective classes on the Student Affairs Council; three of these class representatives (one senior, one junior and one sophomore) shall also represent their respective class~s on the Student Forum Committee on Committees; and three of these class representatives (one senior, one junior, and one sophomore) shall also represent their respective classes on the Student Forum Finance Committee. The Constitution Article V. Section 2. The Student Forum shall consist of the following 18 voting members: ... one student representative from the Interfraternity Counci I; ... Section 3 . . . . The Interfraternity Council representative shall be president of the In- terfraternity Council or his/her designee who shall be an elected represen- tative of the Interfraternity Council. Proposed Changes / Article V. Section 2. The Student Forum shall consist of the following 18 voting members: ... One Greek representative; ... Section 3. ... The Greek representative shall be jointly determined by th~ In- terfraternity Council and the Pan Hellenic Council. These are the steps that you can take on your own to begin to deal with the problem. You first want to let the person harassing you know . tbat you find the behavior discomfortiag. It is important to be firm in con-· fronting this person. He-she may not be aware that this behavior is bothering you. Your assertion here leaves no question that you find the behavior inappropriate m· of- fensive. If this warning does not serve to stop the harasser, then you must begin to take some firmer steps. Informing the person in writing that his-her behavior bothers you all can be effective in stopping the behavior and if necessary can serve as legal evidence in court. Few cases go this far, however. There are some in- formal procedures that students could take next to deal with the situation if speaking with the harasser does not work. According to page 40 of the '84- 85 Student Handbook, \The student may discuss the situation . with the Dean of Students, Joseph Mammal a, either of the two Assistant Deans, Joanne Tobiessen and Robert Massa, the Associate Dean of Faculty, llene Kaplan or either of the two Associate Deans for Undergraduate Studies, William Kaplan Daniels and Willard Roth. The goal of this discussion will be reconciliation rather than confrontation, correction rather than punishment. Also included in this discussion will be an ex- ploration of options and a consideration of the steps the student may follow to resolve the problem.\ Should the student still be experiencing problems, he-she may wish to file an informal grievance. This procedure is outlined in the handbook. \The student may discuss the grievance with the Dean of Students, either of the two Assistant Deans of Students, the Associate Dean of Faculty or either of the two Associate Deans for Undergraduate Studies. The Vice President for Academic Affairs will discuss the matter with the staff or faculty member involved in an attempt to reach a resolution.\ If this further step does not serve to satisfy the grievant, a formal grievance should be filed. The handbook outlines this process, also. \The student should file a written request, with the help of the Dean of Students, to the President within 30 days or as soon as possible. The President will instruct the Vice President for Academic Affairs. to con- vene a grievance collllhittee which will consist o.f two faculty, two administrators and two staf.f members as called f.or in the Affirmative Action Plan to hear grievances, plus two students chosen to serve 'by the Committee on Student Conduct from among their members. For each committee member there shall be an alternate who may subStitute for the regular member at the request of the grievant or the alleged of- fender, the regular membeft' at the request of the grievant or the alleged offender, as called for in the Affirmative Action Plan grievance procedure. The Student Conduct Committee will also designate alternates. The Vice President for Academic Affairs will chair the conunittee. The student will be assisted by the Dean of Students in presenting the case. The Affirmative Action Officer will sit on the committee as an observer. Following the filing of the request, the grievance committee will convene for a hearing Within 15 · days or as. soon as possible. The committee shall hold a hearing with the grievant, the alleged offender and any necessary witnesses. In addition, one supporting person from Union may be chosen by the grievant and the alleged offender to attend the hearing. No person outside of the College community shall be allowed to attend the hearing except to give testimony. The COil1IUittee shall make a decision about the grievance which shall be for- warded in writing to the President within 15 days of the close of the hearing or as soon as possible. The President shall review the decision and take appropriate action.\ Sexual harassment is not a joke, it is a serious problem for those who are subject to it. If you feel you are among those who are sexually harassed, assert your rights, and if you wish assistance, infor:riJ.ation, or ~upport, speak w~th, one of the aforementioned deans. Sexual harassment is not offensive ... it is against the law. Do not hesitate to protect yourself against it. ROOM LOTTERY TIME 6:30-7:00 p.m. 7:00·7:30 p.m. 7:30·8:00 p.m. 8:00·8:30 p.m. 8:30-9:00 p.m. 9:00-9:30 p.m. 9:30·10:00 p.m. 10:00·10:30 p.m. JUNIOR LOTTERY Lottery Numbers 1·50 50-100 100-150 150-200 200-250 250·300 300 -on up unti.l lastperson is called SOPHOMORE LOTTERY Lottery Numbers 1-50 50·100 100·150 150·200 200·250 250-300 300-350 350-on up until last person is call.ed ' The Junior and Sophomore Lottery Only those students with the assigned lottery numbers and their roommates will be allowed onto the third floor of Carnegie Hall during the appropriate time period. All others will be asked to wait on the 4th floor: of Carnegie. The 4th floor lounge will be available for waiting and is designated as the area for students who are looking for roommates to meet and, hopefuUy, find suitable roommates. Members of the Residence Life Staff will be available on the fourth floor of Carnegie to answer questions about the selection procedure in Stage II and pass up-to-date information on remaining rooms, etc.

file a help of to the or as ~sident o con- f two and for Plan two by the on duct te who ~egular of the of- rbe~at or called Action The for the be ~. The er will as an iling.of ~vance for a or as. the In person ~sen by wed to to out the be for- the the :~s soon shall d take a for it. If those rassed, if you or ~of the Sexual ... Do not the oor is are Uy, the the ons CONCORDIENSIS, May 23, 1985 Page3 Mental Events Discussed By GREG FAY Staff The philosophy department continued its series of Friday afternoon colloquiums on May 17, as Jaegwon Kim of the University of Michigan spoke on the topic of \Psychophysical Laws: Can There Be Laws Connecting Psychological and Brain Pheonomena?\ The paper he presented was an interpretation of an argument by Donald Davidson, who had asserted that there cannot be laws connecting mental phenomena with brain phenomena. Kim said that most philosophers believe that there are such laws. These philosophers would argue that \If you destroy all the brains in the world, the unco.nsciousness would cease; there will be no beliefs or desires or intentions . . . and somehow menial life depends on what goes on in our bodies.\ Kim asserted that if the above is false, if no law-like depen- dence exists between mental and brain phenomena, as Davidson argues, \Then the ... science of psychology would then ... seem to be impossible.\ One could never produce comprehensive psychological theories. Therefore, explained Kim, \The nature of psychology as an intellectual enterprise\ would have to be reconsidered. Kim himSelf believes that Davidson's arguments are plausible. He explained that Davidson, in his paper \Mental Events,\ established a lemma called \psychophysical anomalism.\ This lemma, said Kim, asserts that \There are no psychophysical laws, that is, laws connecting psychological events such as belief, desire and intention, to physical events: e.g., events in the brain.\ Davidson uses this lemma to argue for the more general lemma called '' anomalism of the mental\ which says that: \There are no strict laws on the basis of which mental events can be explained and predic- ted.\ Kim explained that ·David- son's conception of the psychological is based on ''intentionality,'' intentional psychological expressions such as belief, desire, hope, feel,. etc. Davidson contrasts these · in- tentional states with phenomenological states. Examples of the latter include pain, itches and visual images. But, asserted Kim, when Davidson writes about mental ~ > rt CJ > .Q 0 .... 0 J:: c. states, he means only in- tentional states, not phenomenological states such as pain, which would have physiological sources. Kim said that to prove his thesis, Davidson cannot merely list examples of mental and brain states, and then say that since the brain~state examples and the mental-state examples are not alike, no law-like con- nection eXists between them. Davidson's argument must, and does, make use of both states at once. To illustrate the question that Davidson tried to answer, Kim made an analogy: Let \D\ be a set of middle-sized material objects. Consider two sets of properties \f\ and \g\, respectively representing colors and sh~pes, Suppose that each object in the domain \D\ has exactly one color and one shape. One wrll find no con- nection between colors and shapes. Analogously, we can let sets \.f'' and \g\ represent mental and physical states respectively. Here too, one would find no law-like con- nection between the two sets. If one did find a connection, it would be mere coincidence. Kim explained, however, that he did not think Davidson would argue that psychology is ab- solutely invalid. Said Kim, \There can be true psychophysical generalizations but there can be no psychophysical laws.\ Kim made another anology to clarify Davidson's argument. He explained that just as a democratic government cannot make a treaty with a totalitarian government without compromising its in- tegrity, one cannot treat the relationship between mental and physical states as being law-like without each state infringing on each other's autonomy. Said Kim, \Laws between mental and physical states would transmit the effects of ... (their separate) characteristics from one system to the other, leading to incoherence. Therefore, there can be no laws connecting the mental system with the physical system, as long as the two systems are to retain their distinctive iden- tities.'' In the transmission of these separate characteristics, the \essential characteristic of the mental,\ which Kim labeled \rationality maximization,\ would be violated. Rationality maximization simply asserts that two or more beliefs of an There's more than one one way to amuse oneself ... individual must be consistent. A person cannot believe that the snow is white and black at the srune time. But the essential feature of the mental, said Kim, is the absence of rationality, which obviously clashes with the rationality maximization principle. In explaining Davidson's argument, Kim attempted to expose the clash between the two principles. In conclusion, Kim .said that although some people might take Davidson's argument to its logical extreme and .group the study of psychology with that of alchemy ot· astrology, he would not consider this a valid con• clusion. The philosophy department will be sponsoring two more colloquiums this term. Professor Jaegwon Kim .of the University of Michigan spoke on Psychophysical laws. .Peace and Justice ... Dellums Considers Issues Continued on page 1 there are only two hundred and eighty-eight cities in the Soviet Union with a population over twenty-five thousand people, why does one need forty thousand nuclear weapons? Dellums is unsure whether these weapons are meant to be used merely as a deterrent or to be deployed. Dellums stated, \If someone thinks we can fight, survive, and prevail in nuclear war, then by definition that person is mentally disturbed.\ The Congre-ssman is worried about recent events that have occurred in Washington, DC. He feels that the Administration created an emergency situation when it said that missile base sites in Middle America would be vulnerable to attack by the mid-1980's. Dellums was op- posed to the new base proposals and the MX missile because he felt that Russians would never attack these bases knowing that United States' missiles could be launched from both the air and the sea. Eventually, after millions of dollars had been spent on .in- vestigation, the Administration reverted back to the position Dellums had held, except now there are MX missiles placed in the silos. Dellums feels an emergency situation had been created only to legislate funds for the MX missile, a weapon he feels brings us closer to nuclear holocaust because these weapons are more compact, go further distances, and can, in the cruise missile case, be undetected by radar system. Because of MX's amazing ability, Dell urns is afraid that some Washington officials feel they can win a nuclear war with a first strike. Dellums_ asks, \What makes one generation of people feel they have the arrogant right to destroy life on this planet?\ He is optimistic that in the future, citizens of both nations will sit down and earnestly speak \loudly . powerfully and profoundly against nuclear war\ because that is what needs to be done. Dellums then discussed his second point, the mentality of war, which dealt with the flaws in American foreign policy. He spoke on Central America, South Africa and Ethiopia. In regard to Central America, the Congressman believed that we should fight the Soviet manace, directing our attentions toward the Soviets, and not fight battles in the jungles of Central America. He cannot understand why the United States supports \Democratic\ nations like Honduras when these nations have a terrible human rights record. Dellums finds it hypocritical for the United States to mine the harbors of Nicaragua while allowing Salvadoran death squads to continue. Turning to the topic of South Africa, De1lum suggested that the United States should boycott the country because of its apartheid government. As he stated, ''Why do we condone that government when its people do not have due process oflaw and freedom of speech?\ Next he raised the question: \Why pick on South Africa? Why should we oppose South Africa?\ He defended his position, declaring that Martin Luther King Jr. had used the same tactics in the South, because it is a challenge where it is highly visible. He thought that it was time that the United States became less the \cold warrior\ and more the peace activist. His final and third point was that the United States' priorities, which are the result of \building a monument to military madness,\ must be stopped. The military budget has grown from $218 billion in 1982 to $320 billion in 1986. With a three-year freeze in 1986, the military budget would still rise by fifty billion dollars because the United States government has made prior commitments. Dellums thinks that it is time for money to be spent on ad- dressing what he considers the real issues: peace, poverty, hunger, disease, hwnan rights violations, and military juntas. ELECTION RESULTS WINNERS . President--Chris Siler •••.•••••.••••••••••••• 605 votes V.P. Administration--Steve Moss ••••••••••••••• 353 votes 52% V .P. Finance--Beth Berne II •••••••••••.••••••• 360 votes 58% Junior Trustee- -Julie Mountain •••••••••.•••• o •• 508 votes 66% AAC Rep.--Kathy Keaveney ................. o •• 343 votes 60% Class Officers Amendment ••••••••••• 354 yes (77%) 107 no (23%) Greek Amendment .................. 390yes{84%) 75 no (16%) Senior Reps Maureen Coleman·mPresident ................... 112 votes Stanley Ference--Vice-President ••••••••••••••••• 97 votes Thomas Dimmick •• Treasurer • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 91 votes Junior Reps. Steve Lipsky··President ....................... 123 votes Mickey Bradley--Vice-President •••••••••••••••• 101 votes Kyle Siegel-- Treasurer ••••••••••••••••••••••• 92 votes Sophomore Reps. 57% 50% 47% 60% 50% 45% Richard Allen ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 87 votes 36% David Cohen Gardner Bolster Aaron Carrel Kim Hancock Runoff Friday May24 for 2 positions Number of Students Voting Class of '85 .........••... 101 Class of '87 .............. 204 Class of '86 ........•..... 195 Class of '88 .............. 245 Tot a 1. • .• • • • . • • • • • • ••• ~ • . • • • .. • • • • •• a • 7 4 5

. ; •'(' . f ' ' \ ' 't ( l 1 t.C',. , ~- ' ' ' ' ; ' . ·~ . If ,· ::: ,f! ' .. ¥ ' ' i I , I: ,., I I --' I -' ; : I ''t; '; ~ ·, : 'I I Page4 WATSON FELLOWSHIP An informational meeting will be held on Mond:ay, May 27/ 1985 at 7:30p.m. in Strauss Lounge. Members of the Selection Com- mittee and this year's winner, Leise I ·Golden, wU I be there. YEARBOOK 1986 CONCORDIENSIS, May 23, 1985 NY Style Deli WATCH FOR ·ouR NEW OUTDOOR CAFE! NEW HOURS Open Mon.-Fri. 8 a.m.-a p.m. Saturday at. 8 a.m .. -5 p.m. 160 Jay St. • 382-5493 Interested in ushering for COMMENCEMENT- '85? Get Involved! I There will .be a meeting on Monday, May 27 at 4:30 Come to an informational meeting tonight, p.m. in Strauss Lounoe .. L~-'you would like to usher at May 23 at 7:30 in the yearbook office (4th o 'J · . I floor Carnegie). Applications wi II be Lommencement, please attend this meeting. . ~a=v=al=l~=ble=i~=o:=~=i~=o~=i:=l ~=ol=s;=::::~::::· p=e=n===- ==! __ j Tournament Sunday, May 26 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Prizes Include: Dinner at Sunday's, Lunch at Manhattan Exchange, Champagne at Englebart's, Ben & Jerry's All Donations Go To Parkhurst Children's Shelter Come out and see some great tennis! *Last minute entries ($5) see Chris Marsching, Carolyn Feinstein, Linda Esposito or Gail Tanke I. IT'S COMING! ''Beta Sunset'', MAY 24, FRIDAY 3:00P.M. I The IFC & The Concert Committee present: Barrance Witfield and the Savages \Scorching R & B Music\ With Guests NET WEIGHT . Sat. May 25th 1 :00 p.m. Join the Greeks for SUN, FUN, BEER WELCOME TO MILLER TIME ~ Beer Brewed by The Mailer Brew•ng c.ompanv M•lwau~cee Wasc.nno:.•n

~30 ~at _j WISGofl'?,on CONCQRDIENSIS, May 23, 1985 Fun at the Clambake ByLEEANNSCHMIDT Contributor Students of Union College can be reassured that the spring thaw has most definitely arrived. After a long, hard winter the ''spring term par- ties\ we've all been wating for have begun.· Last Sunday, Sigma Chi held its 17th annual Spring Fever . Clambake and Derby Day. For once, the unreliable Schenectady weather was conducive to a serious outdoor party. So the cars arrived at the Girling Center. For those who did not want to drive, buses were provided as part of Sigma Chi's Designated Driver plan to cut down on drinking and driving. Then, the real action began. Derby Day consisted of a lot of interesting and highly challenging competitions, such as the borderline kinky orange and bottle pass. For those that missed this event; the object was to· pass an orange to your p~rtner via the neck, while snnultaneously passing a bottle between your thighs, using the pelvic thrlli!!t. Well anyway, I hope the teammates enjoyed themselves as much as the spectators did! Oh, and congratulations to the winning team; Bronner's Babies, to the second place team; The Abortive Clam, to the third place team; The Water- buffalopians, and to the rest of the teams for a great effort! Although the clams were a bit sandy, in general the focd and refreshments were a great improvement from our usual college meals. After all, who can't live with a few grains of sand when the reward is as many clams as you could .wish to devour? Aside from being a lot of fun, the Clambake was a charity event. The proceeds from the Clambake will benefit the Wallace Village treatment and rehabilitation center for disadvantaged children. This is the Sigma Chi National Service Project. So everything con- sidered, I would have to say that once again, the Clambake was a huge success. A Memorable Weekend By ADAM EMERSON Staff I recently went home for the weekend to enjoy some too. There's a lot of racial tension-Brad's orange, she's white. There's not much privacy either. His girl isn't terribly impressed that Brad shares a house with five other people. Well, I told Bradley these are trivial problems, but as he cried himself to sleep I began to realize. opened up my eyes last weekend. Unfortunately, I was so surprised Bradley could talk, I couldn't really advise him. Bradley would love to hear from you. He needs advice on Sarah, the Angora from Jersey. Write him c/o: Bradley the Cat Box 1639 Union College Thank you and please pay more attentionto your pets. It's a rare moment when they ex- press their true feelings. I PageS FEATURES Dr. Masters to speak at Union on May 30. Discussing Sex By SPEAKERS FORUM On Thursday, May 30, 1985, at 8:00 in Memorial Chapel the Unimi College Speakers' Forum will proudly present Dr. William H. Masters, of Masters and Johnson fame. Masters is a world renowned physician and the nation's leading expert in human sexuality. He is a pioneer in the controversial area of sex research and education in the United States. He has been a medical doctor for nearly forty yeaPS, specializing in obstetrics and gynecology. Masters is married to Dr. Virginia Johnson, with whom he began the Masters and Johnson Institute (formerly the Reproductive Biology Research Foundation), in St. Louis Missouri. ' relaxation with my parents and sisters. To my pleasant surprise the first member of my family to greet me was our cat Bradley. Now I love animals but un- fortunately Bradley and I have had a rocky past. I remember many a time when we would walk down the hallway, pass each other, and he would- n't even acknowledge me. Other times Bradley has given me the silent treatment for days at a time. this past weekend there.must've been some kind of magic in the air. My furry little friend and I put all our dif- ferences behind us and enjoyed an unforgettable weekend. We talked the next night sharing a saucer of milk and a can of liver. This time I was a bit more understanding. Bradley raised a lot of im- portant questions a cat in his position must consider. For instance, how does he explain a sudden hunger for two bags of Tender Vittles a day just because .his girlfriend does- n't get enough Meow Mix from her family? Then Bradley started talking marriage. Well, my jaw dropped, but why shouldn't he? Unfortunately, this inter-racial thlrtg becomes very prominent. Do they go to an orange temple or a white church? Will the kids be peach? Will Brad's parents refuse to grab a plane up from Florida. for the ceremony after Uncle Elmo's marriage failed with the cute Calico from Kansas? Prcfessor Schneller Drs. Masters and Johnson have co-authored a number of best selling books on human sexuality. Their first book, Human Sexual Responses (1966), was the first definitive study of the anatomy and physiology of human sexual activity under laboratory conditions. Other books of theirs that have been in the vanguard of sex education include The Pleasure Bond (with Robert Levin), Ethical Issues in Sex Therapy and Research (two volumes with Robert Kolodny and Sarah Weems), Homosexuality in Perspective, and Human Sexuality, 1982 (with Robert Kolodny). Dr. Masters is currently a lecturer at the Washington University School of Medicine in Human Sexuality in Psychiatry, is associated with several St. Louis hospitals, and is Chair- man of the Board of the Masters and Johnson Institute. Moves-On Friday night the folks went out for a movie. Bradl~y and I sat home, watched the Mets Game, and caught up on old times. I thought college was wild? Brad rambled on for about an hour about this hot little number next door. You may think cats act awfully cool but Bradley has problems. You see, felines have trouble dating I've been so naive. Bradley Any Senior who wishes to sing ,_ Cl.l ..c :I ,_ <.!) :2 > 10 0 >- ..c ~ .c: the Alma Mater and the Star Spangled Banner at Graduation should contact NORA KREMER at 346-4060 or Box 1381 by Tuesday, May 14th Tickets will be held next week By JIM MARSHALL Contributor Following the end of Spring Term Dr .. Eugene S, Schneller will resign as the director of the Health Studies Center at Union. During these past seven years he has been responsible for the MBA-Health .Systems Administration and Graduate Program in Health Systems Management with the Albany College of Pharmacy and Albany Medical College. Before Dr. Schneller accepts the position as the director of the Center for Health Service Administration at Arizona State University (Tempe) in the fall, he will serve as the professor to accompany students involved with the Socialized Medicine Term Abroad Program this sununer. Although Arizona offers a larger. program and warmer weather than Union, Dr. Schneller did not actively search for a new position. He and his family have enjoyed living in the tri-city area, and 0. - Last Friday the Delta Gamma Olympi.cs were held as part of the Fitzhugh Ludlow festivities .. The Fox#Won team was the winner. The scene above is the egg-toss event. the college has been an exciting place for him to teach. Union is one of only four accredited colleges in New York State to offer a Graduate Program in Health Systems, and he acknowledges that small \programs like this are gems. Larger programs do the same thing.\ However, he has had very little time for research, and the numerous resources available to him in Arizona will enable him to research, to teach one course, and to strengthen the program in Tempe to the caliber of Union. Indeed, Professor Lambrinos will continue to uphold the excellent reputation of the Health Systems Program until a new director is found after a national search in the fall. At this time the program has a national reputation for its quantitative applications. This aspect provides a broad context and rich attractiveness for the college and the students. Also, there are special progtams available for Union students who might consider careers in Health Systems Business Administration, medicine, and . other professions. Congratulations! Dr. Schneller. May your future endeavors prove most meaningful and beneficial. To expand public knowledge of human sexuality, Drs. Masters and Johnson have made hundreds of guest ap- pearances on radio and television programs including the Phil Donahue Show, Dick Cavett Show, Mike Douglas Show, David Frost Show, and the Meet The Press show. Articles about their careers and scientific findings have ap- peared in the New York Times, The Washington Post, the Boston Globe, and the San Francisco Examiner. They are currently active in a diversified lecture circuit that includes universities, professional organizations, community groups and medical meetings. Don't miss this informative and stimulating speaker. Tickets are on sale at the Box Office-$1 for Union student~ and $2 for the public. In ad- dition, there will be a r-eceptim for Dr. Masters in Milanu Lounge following the lecture for the first 30 people who sign up on a list in Mrs. Marra's office, so be sure to meet this celebrated personality! Library Makes Arrangements For Summer Renovations Schaffer Library will be in-. available for public use. Access stalling compact shelving in one to the basement will be by half of the basement during the elevator only, elevator keys will Summer of 1985. Students be available for check-out at the taki?g summer co~s~work. are C~rculation Desk. The library advtsed ,that periodical titles will have photocopy machines beginning with A-Lit will be and microfilm and microfiche unavailable from June 17th readers available for use . through September 9th. The library is undertaking Microforms, ie. microfilm and this project to alleviate fiche will be inaccessible. The crowding in the basement. If remaining periodical titles, Lit- you have questions or concerns, Z, and the government please see Maribeth Krupczak documents collection will be at the library.

,' f .I I . I . . ~ .. I I: ·.; I, '' ',' ': i '· '' ~ ' . 'I: '' ' ' ; ~ : \\' } ' : . ; ~ i :·'I: I, I I : ·:~ \ ' '' ' . '. ,•-' . li 1 .\' :,' .,: : .; ; '• l l ''I Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, May 23, 1985 FEATURES How Not To Get A Date By JOY RUNYON Associate Features Editor 50 Ways to Get a Date by. Harold Reynolds, Reliant Publishing. Man is always evolving, winding his way up the evolutionary scale in the hopes af one day being the con- summate being .. That's ane very plausible reason why self-help books are so prevalent in our society. But that's just a guess. \Vho ~eeally knows? Every self-proclaimed guru .sells his sure-fire secrets to a· better life to any publisher who is willing to listen. Harold Reynolds is no exception to the rule. His .book, 50 Ways to Get a Date,. is the best book on the subject of dating thus far-,th,at is, if you like comedies. Reynolds is a funny, funny guy. Unfortunately, he thinks his is a Reading Draws Crowd By IDOL HANDS Anonymous Critic When Professor Harry Marten (chairman of the English Dept.) announced to an enthusiastic crowd of faculty and students last Thursday evening in Room 114 of Humanities that they were going to hear two \intelligent and sensitive\ poets read from 'their respective works, no one quite expected the electric performances of both professors Jordan Smith and William (Kit) Hathaway. The evening was definitely unusual, for, while both presentations differed greatly in style and tone (Smith's elegantly structured and serious, Hathaway's less reliant on meter and humorous), the two were equally enjoyable. Jordan Smith began the reading with selections of poetry from his more recent writings entitled, \Lucky Seven.'' From this collection he read \Byrds a peom which he refers to as ·his \Big Chill\ and a moving love poem entitled \Days of 1974\ from which such poignant images as \A splin- tered tone of blue grass,\ and \Hair twisted like vines,\ beautifully illustrated Smith's elegant use of language. Shifting gears a bit, Smith read \For Dulcimer and Double Voice\ and \Country Blues\ two poems which captured the rhythm and musical quality of his poetry. In fact, so vivid were his images that the lines themselves enabled us to \see\ worlds slipping away in quiet water, and to hear the \low drone of loss beneath our strokes.'' On the lighter side of his presentation, Smith interjected humorously, \I'm not usually in the habit of reading other peoples' mail,\ before reading his interesting poem \Letter to Adrian Frazier\ to a suf- ficiently red-faced Professor Frazier! He concluded his presentation with a rather lengthy piece entitled \Lucky Seven,\ a poem which described Saratoga as a Bon Appetite By TAYLOR Staff After you finish reading this sentence, close your eyes, picture yourself on a sunny afternoon, sitting in an outdoor cafe, sipping wine and nibbling on fresh succulent fruit. Experience such delights at Quintessence on New Scotland Avenue in Albany. This cafe transcends time. It is situated in an Art Deco diner, vintage 1934, and is a dining experience. Filled with reminiscences of the past, in- cluding an unused Coca-Cola machine offering soda for six cents, Quintessence offers delicacies of the present'. The menu ranges from fruit and cheese to soup and salad, steak, shrimp, poultry, pasta, and hamburgers. The food is wonderful! All the entrees are extremely tasty and creatively prepared. The Chicken Terriyaki is memorable; it is perfectly seasoned and in- ventively wrapped around a carrot and scallion on a crisp bed of lettuce and served with spinach noodles that would meet the standards of most native Italians. The vegetarian salad, although fresh, was a disappointment. It should have been something more than just lettuce, olives, tomatoes, and cheese. One expects more from such an outstanding establish- ment. It was basically a dressed-up dinner salad. However, the salad dressing makes up somewhat for any letdowns. This delightful homemade dressing could be enjoyed even without a salad. The prices are excellent. The entrees run from two dollars to five dollars, and the mixed drinks are $1.50. Even their white wine spritzer tasted more refreshing than the usual. One would think the prices have not been changed since the diner was built in 1934. The service here is not the most prompt in town, but the ambiance of Quintessence is so much fun that one tends not to mind. The charm of Quin- tessence cannot be raved about enough. This is a step into the past to enjoy fine dining, good drinks, and a great atmosphere. Directions: State St., turns into Central Ave. in Albany. . Before the State Building, make a right on Lark St. Continue on Lark through a few lights, past Lancaster St.; make a right at a light onto Madison. At the second light, make a left onto New Scotland Ave. ''parable of urban restoration,'' and a poem which Smith assured the audience did \have a plot\! Contrast to Smith In contrast to Smith's elegant and serious delivery, Professor Hathaway in one of his poems contorted his face in an effort to loek oriental and addresssed the audience with these words: \Hnagh! Hnagh!\ In short, he brought the house down with his hilarious imitation of a Samarai from his poem entitled \Japanese Movie.\ Equally facetious was a poem he wrote about himself called \The Model's Lecture\ in which he described his feelings towards becoming a human canvas for creative painters. A student cornered Hathaway at the r--eception and innocently asked him if he had ever con- sidered a career as a comedian, to which he responded, \What's the matter? You don't like my poetry?\ Like his poetry? ! It was wonderful! Who could resist lines like: \Why did you become such a crusty old poo poo?\ from his adorable \Letter to William Word- sworth\ and, \The day I did not knock his God damned eye out was the day I let this country . down!\ from his poem \The Ice balL\ Perhaps most amusing about Hathaway's poetry is that we've all met many of his characters. We've all had the misfortune of knowing \cruel pricks\ like \Larry Darah\ (\The Iceball\) and have had friends who've drunk so much that in the morning their ''tongue will taste like spoiled sausage\ (\Two Friends\) and finally; we all know \people who easily think like fish!\ (\Time in the Woods\). Why, even poets belong to one, big, happy family and, as Hathaway put it, \We all wear the same ties, drink from the same glass and generally have a wife and kids ... \ While Hathaway'S poetry was hilarious~ perhaps even more amusing were his witty in- troductions, \I'd like to read two last poems, a little religious piece I wrote called 'Paradise Lost' and a. little war poem, 'The llliad.' \ · The evening proved to be a great success and both professors demonstrated that poetry can be both beautiful and entertaining. serious self-help book. At the end of it, he proclaims, \It is the intention of the author ... that this book be used to promote any selfish relationships, promiscuous relationships or one night stands.\ Wow, what a karma!. The biggest fault to be found in 50 Ways is Reynold's ob- session with his success in the employment of his date-getting schemes. Out .of his 50 metl'iods, 13 have resulted in success for the author. Of course, all the girls were attractive and ap- proached him. They pick him up using everything from sending flowers to hand-picking black- berries for him to asking for some of his hors d'ouvres. After reading some of these im- plausible encounters of his, one wonders whether they actually occurred, or does this guy just have really great dreams when he sleeps? But you almost have to pity him. The poor guy must be really hard up to have to make up things like this. Think about it: Who really picks up girls at Bible Study groups or rescuing a stranded motorist~ yes, that's right, stranded motorists; Reynolds claims that a stranded motorist will be indebted to whoever rescues him-her. Unfortunately, most stranded motorists, especially women, pack handguns to ward off anyone who might stop to ask them for a date. Reynolds overestimates human nature. Not everyone is willing to come on to someone with a line like, \Let's go look at the rose garden,\ (Ronnie and Nancy's personal favorite) or, \Do you go to church here? I've been looking .for a good church, but don't knowhow to find one.\ Lines like this would probably get you nothing more than a strange look and a \Sorry I'm busy Friday night, Saturday night, and the rest of my life.\ And Reynolds thinks he is going to help you find a date??? His naivete suggests that he is fresh out of Cornhusk, Idaho, from a family of eight, where he was taught the evils of Jim Lange's \The Dating Game.\ That Reynalds believes he will salvage all poor souls searching for that one specia'l date with his book is ludicrous! There are some very special sections of 50 ways which deserve to be elaborated upon in this review, just in case someone out there isn't willing to spend $4.50 on this intriguing piece of . . . literature. One of the most probable ways, one which everyone should try, is the old Skydiving Trick. \It just so happens that I met a very nice girl on my first lesson and we're still friends today,\ Reynolds reassures us. So go ahead. What are you, scared ·of a little adventure? Who knows- that special someone just might be a paramedic who will rescue you from your first heart at- tack. If that's a bit reckless for your taste, you could always. \go shopping in men's or women's departments.\ Spend time browsing, and ask the clerk's opinion about some different styles or colors~ Then, on the second visit, you can ask this clerk to have lunch with you at the little restaurant across the street.\ But not all of us can be as memorable as Reynolds: What do you think are the chances of the clerk at Macy's on 42nd Street will remember your face after serving a few thousand people between the time you ask her advice and the time you ask her for a luncheon date? Another alternative is to \keep an eye on bus stops.\ A . Continued on page 7 Minority Affairs Talks Cont.inue (The last event of the 1984-85 academic school yea'r) Mr. John E. Jacob, President and Chief Executive Officer of the National Urban League, the nation's most respected community-based social service and advocacy agency will discuss \The State of Black America 1985.\ Wednesday, May 29 • 3:30p.m. Humanities 116 3 MAJOR EVENTS \ 11:30-1 :00--Working Lunch--faculty and students • 2:00-3:00--lnformal Gathering--faculty and students • 3:30-4:30 p.m.--TALK *' HANDMAD~SILVERJEWELRY *' Imported iNDlAN CLOTHES & GIFTS Complete Une of PIPES, SM01QNG ACCESSORIES 8t · ,Imported CIGAB,E,TES.& TOBACCOS·· Imprinted ROCK & ROLL-GROUP T .-SHIRTS

His ~esh was ge's will his ~cial ~ase of one is just very o go ~scue at- \go time the this at the ~an be the few the the is to ~s.\ A page7 ief ST. & .. CONCORDIENSJS, May 23, 1985 Page7 FEATURES R.I.D.Lobbies For . Higher Drinking Age. By DAVID FITZGERALD Features Editor One of the biggest issues that the New York State Legislature still has to act on this year is the raising of the legal drinking age from the present 19 to 21. A variety of student. groups have lobbied against this move but their efforts do not match those of R.I.D. (Remove Intoxicated Drivers) which has lobbied continuously in favor of raising the drinking age. R.I.D. claims that it is a \Citizens Project to Remove Intoxicated Drivers\ and that it is the -citizens of this state, not the people in politics or the judicial system that really are willing to take the bold steps that will get drunk drivers off the road. R.I.D. was founded in Schenectady, New York in February of 1978 by Doris Aiken. Mrs. Aiken began R.I.D. · after two children were mur- dered on a Sunday afternoon n~ar her house by a drunk driver. ''They were killed by him just as if he had shot them with a gun.\ The district at- torney,atthetime,accordingto Aiken, did not seem to see anything wrong or lJllUSUal that the murderer got off \Scot Free.\ Aiken together with a few other angry people went by themselves to the Schenectady County Grand Jury to seek an indictment. Charges were eventually brought against the man thanks to the concern of a few citizens. Aiken realized that situations like this were oc- curring all around the country and that it was time, \for the people and not the politicians to see that the drunk driver was brought to justice for their actions.\ From its small start in 1978, R.l.D. has grown to 155 chap- ters in thirty-five states and has · a network in France. The goals of each chapter are the same: close loopholes in the law deter drunk driving by raising public awareness about the consequences of drunk driving. Thirty-six bills have been passed in New York with the help of RID. Thirty-eight other states have enacted bills modeled after the ones passed in New York with R.I.D.'s support. Not only are the laws tougher but Doris Aiken believes that the statistics cearly support R.I.D.'s claims of success. Over the past four years the nwnber of fatalities have decreased by over twenty-five percent. The highest legislative priority that R.I.D~ has this year . is seeing that the drinking age in New York is raised to twenty-one. Governor Cuomo already supports this move and Mrs. Aiken believes that this year it will pass both the Assembly and the Senate. According to Aiken, sixty-five fewer young people between the ages of 19 and 21 will die each year if the drinking age is raised. Considering the statistics and the fact that New York State risks losing $30 million in Federal funds if it fails to enact 21, \New York cannot afford to be the drinking mecca of the East.'' Other bills that R.I.D. is at- tempting to pass include bills that would place cameras in the courts so that the public would see the accused drunk dirvers and equalize drug and drunk driving offenses. Aiken hopes that someday R.I.D. will be so successful that it will no longer be needed due Junior Pub Night Thursday May30 Dancing at the Pub Refreshments and Food wi,ll be Available FUN/ FUN! FUN! to the removal from the roads of the drunk driver. This is unlikely because Aiken believes that the citizen will constantly have to watch over the judicial and political systems. Aiken believes that the liquor industry and the legal profession have a profitablE! alliance that will not be easily broken. \The liquor industry will always want .people to drink more and at the same time the legal profession wUl always be there to help people escape from their ac- tions.\ ~ College Press Service \I had no choice: He threatened me with this dangerous weapon.\ 'Bad Dating Come-On's Continued from page 6 more enjoyable, relaxed meeting place simply cannot be found. Reynolds .suggests that you ask someone waiting for a bus if they would like a ride to wherever they are going. Sure, why not? Anyone at a bus stop would jump at the chance to hop into a moving car with some complete stranger. All the· better if YUJl have beady eyes, greasy hair, and drive a rusty '74 Nova. You might opt for going to church. Don't let the en- vironment fool- you; there are lots of wild women just waiting to be picked up. Your first date might be something wild like baking cookies, but maybe the chick will simmer down after she gets to know you a little better. The important thing is to \concentrate on being frien- dly.'' An even wilder section in the book explains the joy of picking up someone at a church dinner. Reynolds never promised a fun date. As a matter of fact, he never promised anything! If none of these activities appeal to you, there are many others, fifty in all, to be exact. You could play BINGO, squaredance, go to the laun- dromat, travel by train, conduct .a survey, carry an umbrella, get to know someone's parents, or go to the zoo. - Sorry, but .giving away another writer's secrets is bad business, so no more techniques can be explained here. But you're aU probably dying to read this veritable mine of .dating know~how. If you are one of the many anxious, just send $4.50 to Reliant Marketing and Publishing, Box 17456, Por- tland, Oregon 97217. Send for your copy now, as these babies are selling like hotcakes. And good luck. (With Reynolds as your mentor, 'you'll need it.) . . . ' ~ . . . . ·. - . ' . . . . . ' - . . ' . .... . ~ ' . . . . . . ~ -------QUESTION.s ____ __ WHAT DO THE FOLLOWING RESEARCH PROPOSALS HAVE IN COMMON? Proposal Title: Location of Research: Living Fossils in Austrailia ...............................•............. Australia, Tanzania Women in Indian Religious Communities ............................................. India Nazi I ntluence on the Bodensee Border .Region ............................................. Germany, Austria, Switzerland Acoustics of the German Baroque Organ ............................... w. Germany, France Women's Religious Communities ................................. United Kingdom, Finland, Israel, Thailand A 19th Century Mutiny & International Law ............................... , . 1 reland, France, United Kingdom, Spain, Jamaica Women in the Military ..................................................... Norway, Israel -Practical Economics of the Fishing Industry .................................. Japan, Norway Fabric Architecture ...................•...•.......... France, Saudi Arabia, West Germany, United Kingdom Development of Elite Athletes in the Third Wor.ld ...................................... 1 ndia, Venezuela, Swaziland -------ANSWE~------- THEY ARE JUST A FEW OF THE 70 WINNING PROPOSALS IN THIS YEAR'S WATSON FELLOWSHIP COMPETITION. Ypu can win, too. Anyone who will be a senior next Fall can apply to win a $10,000 Watson Traveling Fellowship. To find out how, come to an informationa I meeting on Monday evening, May 27 in Strauss Lounge, Carnegie Hall, at 7:30. Applications are not due until early Fall term, but you should start planning NOW. The opportunity to win $10,000 for a year Of travel is worth a little effort. so come find out the details this Monday--and meet Liesel Gordon, this year's winner from Union! If you can't come to the meeting, but want more information, see Prof. Klein in the Economics Department.

.... . l .·I li I' •' I ' \! ·,. i I 'l I ~ ~ I '•': 1 I. ': . ' 'I ; PageS CONCORDIENSIS, May 23,.1985 <JJ11nrorbirnsis FoW!fkJ at l fmon Co/leg~ 1817 ------------ ----~-- Election Notes Congratulations are in order for the newly elected members of Student Forum. The Forum is an im- portant decision-making body, and it is hoped that the newly elected members will do their best to govern the student body in a responsible manner. While on the topic of elections, it seems an ap~ propriate time to explain the consequences of the two amendments to the Constitution whjch were approved in last Friday's election. The first amendment in- volves naming a president, vice-president, and treasurer for the senior, junior, and sophomore classes. These positions were determined by the number of votes each candidate received. The person receiving the highest number of ·votes was named president, the person receiving the second highest number of votes was named vice-president, and the person receiving the third highest number of votes was named treasurer. This change will serve to better divide the responsibilities between the represen- tatives. It is not .a major change, but it is believed that it is a positive one. Any change to bring more organization to a governing body is bound to be beneficial. The second amendment has to do with the Greek representative to the Forum. In the past, the In- terfraternity Council {composed of all the presidents of fraternities on campus) elected an IFC representative to the Forum. From now on, the Panhellenic Council (made up of-guess who-all the presidents of sororities on campus) will be included in this process. They will be able to vote for a Greek representative, which ca~. now be either male . or female. Previously, soror1tles had no representation in the Forum. For now, this change probably will be more of a technicality than anything else, seeing as sororities are still greatly outnumbered by frater- nities. It is, however, a step in the right direction. Sororities deserve equal representation. Liberal Learning On the whole, education in the United States has little to brag about. So says the Association of American Colleges and the Bennett Reports. (See commentary on page 9.) We, at Union, however, tend to think of ourselves as being somewhat of a cut above the rest of Americans. We do indeed attend a higher institution of learning and because of this fact, students here presumably take their education seriously. It is easy· enough to close our minds to the outside world, that world outside our fair gates and say that we are not like other institutions. This thought brings to light our Liberal Learning program, Union's equivalent to other institutions' core and distribution requirements. The Academic Affairs Council (AAC), after reading reports of the poor shape of our nation's education system, has reviewed the program which presently exists at Union and has found some real weaknesses. In the commentary, Tom Megerian has outlined the problems with our program and has also explained some reformation proposals. What he has written should (it is hoped) evoke some student response. As far as preprofessionalism goes, Union is no doubt in the top ten or so. This fact seems to be the most criticized point of education these days, that students focus exclusively on what is going to help them \get ahead.\ And who can deny that this is the prevailmg attitude among Unio~ students? We are guilty as charged. · But, Megerian urges \Now's your big chance!\ And he is right! Something can be done. We can see that the Libaral Learning program has slipped from the shelf which it once sat on. It seems that the system has become a hindrance rather than a boost to its original objectives. These problems are not without solutions. But, Megerians commentary should be thought about seriously by all who are concerned not only about their own future but the future of America. · LETTERS ZBT Raises· Money To the Editor: On 5d17-85, the Brothers of Zeta Beta Tau fraternity held their first ~nnual \New UMOC Party\. Through the over• whelming support of the entire campus and administration, we were able to raise over $600.00 for the Leukemia Society of America. The Brothers of the Eta Chapter of Zeta Beta Tau would Uke to express our gratitude to those who voted outside Carnegie, or paid admission to our party in order to contribute to the Leukemia Society of Ame,rica. Inciden- tally, the winners of the 1985 UMOC contest were: First Place: Joe Basista Second Place: Ethan Starr Third Place: John Donnelly Thanks to the support of. the Campus, both the party and the fund drive were a big success, and hopefully they will become a new. tradition on the Union · College campus, Sincerely The Brothers of Zeta Beta Tau, Eta Chapter AEPi Will Cooperate To the Editor: The past two weeks have · marked a period of great prosperity and minor conflict for the Brothers of AEPi. While we enjoyed a very successful party in an effort to raise money for Cancer Care, we had an unfortunate misunderstanding with the IFC in terms of our · standing on campus as ·a \fraternity\. _At the present time there are only seventeen fraternities at Union College. We 1 the Brothers of AEPi, are in a \pre•charter\ position. In other words, we are not an official member of the Greek system but rather an organization waiting to be recogRized. in due time by the administration. We are more than willing to establish ourself within the guidelines set by the IFC. We are looking forward to cooperating with the ad- ministration and the IFC and are enthusiastically awaiting our fulT recognition as a member of the Union College Greek system. · · Thank You, . the Brothers of AEPi Library Not Adequate To the Editor: Once again it is time to complain about the Library here at Union College. Now a senior, I think I have done a pretty good job in avoiding Schaffer Library since my sophomore year. I soon learned how difficult it is to study in such cramped stuffy quarters, and how hard it is to write with such poor lighting-tee. But this has never really bothered me since there are other places to do such things, like classrooms, dorm rooms, wherever. No, it is not until now that I see how grossly deficient the library is in its one primary function, books! Tell me they're in some hidden room, or in a sub- basement somewhere. Today I went to- Schaffer to do some follow up literature work for my thesis. First I checked the card catalog_ for some rather basic reading on a rather basic chemical compound; nothing at all could be found. Then, so as not to make this trip a total waste of time 1 I fugured I would look through the periodicals for toher in- formation. Carefully I thumbed through Chemical Abstracts (sitting on the floor; there is little table room near this collection) ultimitely finding references to about 15 articles. I though \great now we're cooking with gas.\ I retreated into the basement searched out the articles ·and emerged .one hour later from the crippled photocopiers with nne, . count 'em, one article. Yes, this revered institution of nearly two hundred years had only one of the periodicals. I realize \that as a small school our funds are limited, but these periodicals SENIORS! are far from the esoteric letters of science that schools like RJ'I abound with. They are some of · the most widely used sources in physical chemistry. To the point: I love Union College and certainly it will always have a place in my heart (and in my wallet), but, it is my responsibility as a graduating · senior to make this last plea: realizing that Union has just embarked on a 14 million dollar building project, I ask that once completed, budgetary eyes should focus on vast im- provements for the library. It is essential, if Union is to maintain its esteemed reputation, to have a library that is both com- fortable and reSOJll'Ceful. Do not let this vital facility continue to degrade. Craig L. Shalmi '85 The New York City Alumni Club invites all seniors who will be living in New York City after graduat.ion to attend a \Night at the Ballpark: Yankees vs. Orioles\ on Wednesday, June 26. Tickets a,re $10.00 each and must be reserved by May 30. For more details, call the Alumni Office at 6168. Thomas c. Reeves, Professor of History at the University of Wisconsin· Parkside, will discuss \Forgotten President, Forgotten Era: Chester A. Arthur and the Gilded Age\ at a lecture Wednesday, May 29 at 11:30 in the Music Room of Schaffer Library. Reeves is the author . · of Gentleman Boss, a study of Arthur, who graduated from Union in 1848 and became president in 1881. Reeves' other books include The Life and Times of Joe McCarthy, a selection of the Book·.of·the- Month Club and the History Book Club. The lecture is sponsored by the Minerva Committee. All students from Union College who . plan for dertain to attend Albany Law School are invited to apply for the Saxton, Porter and Speir scholarships. Applications are available from. the Secretary in the Political Science Dept. and are to be returned to Prof. Board by July 1.

zer the CONCORDIENSIS, May 23, 1985 I Now's Your Big Chance I RyTOM MEGERIAN Want to hear something about yourselfthat you probably don't know? '\i'oday's student populations are less well-prepared, more vocationally oriented and ~p­ parently more materialistic than their immediate predecessors. A survival ethic encourages a hunkering down, a diminished vision (in univer- sities).\ So goes a recent report from the Association of American Colleges (AAC.) entitled \Integrity in the College Curriculum.\ \To Reclaim a Legacy\ another prominent report, recently put forth by the National Endowment for the Humanities ( also known as the Bennet Report), also very critical of today's college curriculums, claims that many \students are graduating fr..om American colleges and universities lacking even the most rudimentary knowledge about the history, literature, art and philosophical foundations of their nation and their civilization.\ Claims of excessive preprofessionalism and illiteracy are rampant among reports like these whi:ch criticize today's elementary secondary and higher education institutions. Our generation has become so accustomed to hearing how 'uneducated' we are relative to previous generations. We can't write as well. We are not as well read. We lack adequate training in the humanities and social sciences. In short, it sounds like we're a bunch of durrunies! Sure, we could look at it that way. We could say \yeah we're a competitive, materialistic, illiterate bunch and we like it that way. All we want is a good job. Who cares about a good liberal arts education.\ But now is our big chance to do something else. We can get involved and change the way our educational SfStem works. We have a rare opportl).Ility to make a difference and leave our mark forever on undergraduate education at Union and elsewhere. The Union College Academic Affairs Council, in response to reports like the Bennet Report and the AAC report, is reviewing Union's present Liberal Learning Program. By listening to the critizisms of these reports and paying at- tention to student gripes about many of the Liberal Learning courses, they have identified some of the problems within the present system. It is fragme11ted and lacks a \common core.\ It is easy to avoid taking humanities and-or engineering courses (you ·only have to take two A's and one F or vice versa). Some courses are now given liberal learning credits in categories they should not. For instance, a student can get credit for taking a course in the 'Perspectives from another culture' (D) category . by taking Shakespeare~ Come on! While the English may have many cultural differences from us, a course in EJ:J.glish literature was hardly what the originators of our Liberal Learning system had in mind when they decided it would be geod for us to un- derstand other cultures. If you don't believe we have problems; take a look at the world around you. Many of the problems we now face as a nation stem from deficiencies in our undergraduate training. Why do we consistently misunderstand the needs of our South American ·neighbors? Why is it that when we try to help other countries in political and economic turmoil,. we always end up pushing them away. Why are we falling behind in most major areas of business and technolo.gy when we used to lead the world. Maybe it is because we are so wrapped up in ourselves, our careers, and in our own culture, that we haven't got a clue what it is like to be Iranian or Columbian, or Nicaraguan. The AAC report states, ·\the business community complains of difficulty in recruiting literate college graduates\ and \Foreign language in- competence is now not only a national embarrassment but in a rapidly changing world it threatens to be an enfeebling disadvantage in the conduct of business and diplomacy.\ The relationships between the problems of our nation and of our undergraduate programs are clear enough. So now is your big chance ... to make the difference. Our Academic Affairs Council will b!'l very active next year trying to revamp the system here. other institutions are, doing the same. Student input is so im~ portant in, this process, especially if we are to identify all of the shortcomings of the present system. One of the ideas being tossed around is the introduction of a Liberal Learning sequence . system. Students would take a certain nwnber of sequences of three related, interdisCiplinary courses which concentrate on a specific topic. For example, a Latin American sequence might include a course in the history of South, America, one in South American literature, and one in the political structure of Latin American countries. Through such a ·system, a student, like . now, would take courses in history, literature and political science, with the added benefit of having cohesiveness between courses, rather 'than the fragmentation that presently exists. Consequently, courses outside the major would have more meaning and depth. Other suggestions: Bring back a language requirement; remove liberal learning letters from the large number of courses which do not meet the goals of the program; get rid of 'baby' courses designed for non- majors-make at least a one course laboratory requirement for all students; create a 'W' category for writing-students would have to take a certain number of courses which have the (W) designation, whether they be English, History, Philosophy, etc.; introduce a Senior Preceptorial-a capstone course designed to encourage students to think about the moral implications of technology and the knowledge explosion. Now is your big chance! Make yourself heard during this important process. You can get copies of the Bennet Report and AAC reports from Dean Daniels' office. ReruLthem and then make comments about what ·you think of the suggestions listed in them and- or the ones listed above. Or write down some of your own criticisms and thoughts about our present Liberal Learning system based on your own experiences. What courses did you think were no good and why? What courses pleasantly surprised yol.J. or upset you by teaching something different than you expected? Whatever your comments are, write them in· a letter to Concordy and let others know what you think. Or send them to me, at Box No. 1602, or to The Academic Affairs Council, c/o Dean Daniels. This is not a simple problem that will be solved by 'someone else'. It will require a great effort by everyonet Nor is it a trivial problem. The gravity of it cannot be expressed. It is our own future, and that of our country that is at stake. FALL TERM PREREGISTRATION PRO,CEDURES The procedures for fall preregistration will be the same as those used for the spring term. Each student has been assigned a specific time to preregister. Preregistration will occur in Silliman Hall and will involve each student meeting with a member of the Registrar's staff. Preregistration materials (the\ Preregistration Course Request Form\ and a list of courses) will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning Monday, May 20. Students should review the course listing, consult with their advisers, and select the courses they wish. It would be advisable for students to have a fourth and fifth choice i'n mind ih case one of their first three choices becomes unavailable, Some courses are available only wi.th the permission of the department. These are referred to as \list\ courses and are indicated on the course listing by an asterisk. Lists for these courses will be posted ·by the relevant departments on Wednesday, May 22. Students should sign the list to in- dicate an interest. Students should then return to the department on .Friday, May 24 to find out whether or not they have been admitted. Those students admitted to a list course must secure a course registration card from the department. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PREREGISTER FOR A \LIST\ COURSE WITHOUT A RESERVATION CARD. THESE AR.E THE ONLY COURSES THAT REQUIRE SUCH CARDS. Preregistration for senior thesis or an independent study will require written permission of the supervising faculty member. The date and time for each student's preregistration appointment will be printed on the label affixed to the.ir \Preregistration Course Request Form.\ Students will not be allowed to preregister prior to their assigned time. Preregistration will conclude on Thursday, May 30 and no late preregistration will be permitted. Additional course changes may be made during the Drop/ Add period atthe start ofthe fall term. Students will be admitted to Silliman Hall at the time printed on their \Preregistration course Request Form\ (this f.orm must be brought to preregistration). Ohce inside they should verify that the courses they desire still are available. If so, they should ensure that their form is properly filled out and then see a staff member who Wil1 preregister them. If one or more of the courses they desire are closed, they should select new ones, correct their preregistration form and then see a staff member. It is hoped that this process will take a student no more than ten minutes at the most. Page9 COMMENTARIES Human R.ights By MiCHAEL BOWMAN On May 16, last Thursday evening, ''Life: The Most Basic Human Right,'' was presented by the Union College Pro-Life Forum as .part of Social Action Awareness Week. This pr;esentation was a discussion of abortion, infanticide, and euthanasia, featuring speakers Barbara Fraterrigo and Virginia Horan. Barbara Fraterrigo, the first speaker, is Chairperson of New York State Right to Life in Albany, and had appeared in a debate on channel 17 the previous night. Her talk covered the topics of abortion and infanticide, and included a video presentation on the medical aspects of abortion. Virginia Horan,. the second speaker, is a registered nurse, and President of Citizens Concerned for Human Life. She had spoken at Union once before, when the film The Silent Scream was presented. Mrs. Horan's talk covered the topics of abortion and euthanasia. . In their presentations, the speakers discussed the human rights aspects of these issues, and stressed that the right to life has to be preserved at each point i:n the human life cycle. After their presentation, the speakers answered questions from the audience and literature was made available. Paul Edwards, President of the ~ro-Life Forum, was quoted as saying, \We have heard in this presentation that abortion, infanticide, and euthanasia are related in that they deprive the helpless in our society of their most basic human right in the name of social convenience. Life is the most basic human right: that's the message that we have conveyed th~ evenipg.\ Student Activities Allocations Amnfor 1985~86 (Forum Approved) esty International. ............................ $1355 Arts Club ......................................... $2564 Big Bros./Big Sisters .............................. $3940 BLAS ............................................ $2517 Cabaret .......................................... $1745 c u· amp n1on ..................................... $20,000 Cheer~eaders ...................................... $720 Chemistry Club .................................... $250 Circle K .......................................... $1789 Concordiensis ................................... $22,905 ~oncert Band ..................................... $3414 oncert Committee .............................. $26,000 U.C. Choir ........................................ $9170 Curling Club ....................................... $343 Dance Club ....................................... $1650 gance Ensemble .................................. $1143 utch Pipers ...................................... $625 Economics Club .................................... $703 ~!lm Committee ................................. $13,650 Itzhugh Ludlow Day .............................. $4000 Frisbee Club ...................................... $1335 Gaming Association ................................ $280 Garnet ......................................... $14,700 Idol. ............................................. $1655 Jazz Ensemble .................................... $2355 Mountebanks ..................................... $5075 Outing Club ....................................... $2205 Photography Club .................................. $942 ~e-Health S~ciety ................................ $1054 re-Law Society ................................... $319 Men's Rugby Club .............................. -: .. $3668 Women's Rugby Club .............................. $1536 !!·C. Rowing Assn. (Crew) ......................... 22,000 .:~cuba Club , ....................................... $932 Bio Club .......................................... $1395 Senior Fling ....................................... $500 Ski Club .......................................... $2400 Social Committee ................................. $5750 Speakers Forum ................................. $32 000 Stone Boat Club ................................... $i855 SEA Club, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ................. $1148 Student Forum .................................... $3200 Women's Network ................................. $1660 WRUC · · · · · · · · · ................................ $21,509 Record Hop ....................................... $250 W2UC ............................................ $645 International Relations Club ........................ $2830 Fencing Club ...................................... $906 French Club ....................................... $450 Phposophy Club .................................... $440 Umon Lampoone ................................... $980 Physics Club ...................................... $440 Psyc~ology Club ...... , .............................. $480 Spamsh Clu~ : : ..... : .............................. $545 Student ActlVltles Off1ce ........................... $5000 Class of :86 ........................................ $400 Class- of 87 ........................................ $400 Class of '88 ........................................ $400 Class of '89 ........................................ $400 Matching Funds/Reserve Act. ...................... $5000 AHention Freshmen Runoff for Soph. Reps. Tomorrow May24 9 a.m.-4 p.m. Carnegie Hall Remember To Vote! Vote for ·any 2: David Cohen Gardner Bolster Aaron Carrel Kim Hancock (Ri.ch Allen already won!)

i' i l \i i ' 1 : 'f.: l. ~ ' : i i i ; i ! ·,.:[ ' ., . ' ... CIJ J:l ::> \.. (.!) '0 > ro 0 > J:l 0 0 .c 0.. Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, May 13, 1985 . THE ARTS George DiCenzo returns to Union . .. An Actor Comes Home :Sy GAYLE R(!)SENFELD Staff Last week while Union was enjoying the .spring weather, one of the College's more illustrious and charming alumnus was visiting the campus .. Actor George DiCenzo (pronounced Dee Chenzo), class of '62 and Psi Upsion fraternity . brother, attended theatre classes and other events from May 12 to MetY 17 to speak with students about <kama and related entertainment careers. He did so upon a personal in- vitation from the College though friend Gordon Decker, Director of Development, after he had shown some interest in doing so. Mr. DiCenzo was gracious Pub during a quiet Wednesday morning. DiCenzo graduated from Union twenty three years ago with a bachelor's degree in sociology. After a lot of soul searching (\I knew I didn't want to go to law school\) he decided to attend the Yale Drama School, an interesting decision for the son of a circuit court judge in New Haven, Connecticut. However, DiCenzo had fallen into acting through lead roles in Mountebanks' productions under the guidance of former Union drama professor Giff Wingate. Alumni George DiCenzo, a professional actor, visited Union last enoughtograntthisreporteran week. interview in the Dutch Hollow While at Yale, DiCenw kept very busy. Among many ·Of his activities, he organized and directed the Theatre in the Rink, the university's first summer theatre. He also was vice president and organizer of the Connecticut Theatre and Workshop, Inc. Thus, he left Curtis: \I realized the opportunities were on the West Coast,\ said Di- Cenzo. With $500 in his pocket, DiCenzo drove to California in a Volkswagon bus on his way to stardom. Six months later, he was still out of a job and without an agent. Success had eluded . him as his unemployment checks attested .. Fortunately, he ran into Dan Curtis who gave him a bit role in a television film he was making. This led to a brief spot-three lines-as a policeman Ofl a \Mod Squad\ episode where a humorous incident led to a nmnber of introductions for DiCenzo to various casting directors. He took a chance in that situation and it paid off for him. \If you don't take chances,\ said DiCenzo, ''you might as well dig a hole and bury yourself.\ Creative Writing ••• ~---••corners••----- The summer after graduation with a Master of Fine Arts degree, DiCenzo managed the Williamstown Summer Theatre's second season. He also later acted in stock com~ panies in Buffalo (where he was also the theatre's assistant manager) and Pittsburgh. He moved onto New York City where be had occasion to work as a Brooklyn cab driver (he was held up a mere three After that episode, DiCe112iO was on his way in Hollywood. His role as prosecutor Vincent Bugliosi in the four how: CBS television drama \Helter Skelter\ in 1976 brought him prominence on national television. Prior to that he had acted in the following films: By C. CHANDAR I passed through an area of shadow between the pools of light made by the streetlamps and tried to walk a little more quietly. Ahead of me walked a tall young woman, apparently heading toward one of the new apartments a few blocks away. I tried to maintain the distance between us, carefully matching our paces. Although she had not yet turned around to look behind herself once since leaving the theatre a block behind us, I had the feeling that she knew, or at least suspecte<,i, that she was being followed. Within another block my suspicions proved true when she abruptly turned around to look in my direction. I saw her beginning to turn and promptly stopped and pretended to examine the merchandise in one of the conveniently well-lit store windows. I did not resume my path until I heard her footsteps become regular again and start to fade into the distance . After that it seemed that she was listening carefully to the soft taps my boots made on the pavement, to find out whether or not she was indeed being followed. I made that harder by varying the distance between us and by synchronizing my steps with hers. Whenever she walked into the pools of light cast by the lamps I took the opportunity to examine her figure in detail. Earlier, in the theatre, I had stayed in my seat to reflect on the play while most of the audience got up and left. I had seen her walking up the aisle alone, with a sort of odd expression on her face Microprocessor music disappoints ... Poor High- Tech By JODI L. ISRAEL Staff On Friday, May 17, in the Arts Building, Ron Kuivila gave a . concert using a microprocessor. It was far different from anything that had been ex- pected and, in this case, dif- ferent did not mean good. To start with, the audience could not see the \instruments\. They were placed on a table with their backs toward us, and slanted downward toward the performer. Furthermore, Kuivila, a professor at Weslyan College, was forced to leave his major equipment at school for the use of his students doing final projects. Therefore, much of the concert was on tape. That might have been ac- ceptable had the music been good, but . . . Kuivila gave his only real exolanation of the music before his first piece. It was so technical, however, that very few could understand it. The three pieces he played were different yet very similar; they were all quite nerve- grating. The notes gave off such high-frequency overtones that they crawled up to my nerve. endings and clawed. The music was not science fiction or space- oriented, as might have been expected. This was technological music, not a science fiction movie theme extravaganza. Between his second and third piece, Kuivila took a break to show us visual music. He had strung up two wires across one side of the room and when he did \something\ and the lights were off, we could see the notes he was playing in the form of blue light. His explnation here was, again, too technical. Also, the initial fascination faded quickly as he repeated the same trick again and again. He did say this is still experimental, but it has definite potential. The concert lasted an hour and a half, and would have lasted longer had the Fitzhugh Ludlow Day fireworks not been scheduled. The concert ended with a big bang, but un- fortunately, it was not because of the music. which seemed rather inap- propriate for the play. Her eyes had intrigued me much more, though. Large, unusually so, and quite green, they seemed to hint of a deep intelligence within, the sort of thing one almost never sees. For some reason, I felt an inexplicable desire to follow her into the night. Not far ahead of me, she paused at the recessed entrance to one of the apartment buildings. She pulled out a key and inserted it into the lock, but it would not open. As I ap- proached she glanced sharply in my direction. In that split second I saw fright written all over her face. I drew slowly closer, my face hidden in the shadow of the hat I wore. She seemed to be growing desperate in her attempts to open the door. Still it would not move. times). · Then things began to look up; DiCenzo became an ABC studio supervisor for two years and by being in the right place at the right time and then using that opportunity. DiCenzo landed a job with Dan Curtis Produc- tions, the producer of the successful \Dark Shadows\ series. DiCenzo also obtained a role in the motion picture \House of Dark Shadows.\ At that time, DiCenzo joined the Screen Actors' Guild. After leaving acting twice for producing, DiCenzo finally decided to stay in acting for ''that really was what I loved to do.\ \Going Home,\ \Godfather \Sisters and \Shoot It.\ His series roles have included \Cannon \Barnaby Jones,\ \Police Story,\ \Streets of Sail Francisco,\ \Ironside \FBI and \Doc Elliot.\ He also appeared in \Hawaii Five- 0,\ \The Rockford Files,\ \Kojak \Aspen\ (mini series), \ER \ \Murder She Wrote,\ and \McLain's Law\ (starring role). His film credits include the following:. \Close Encounters of the Third Kind,\ \The Choirboys,\ \Las· Vegas Lady,\ and \The Ninth Con- figuration.'' DiCenzo's list of credits continue (including a \Magnum P.I.\ episode with friend and former acting school classmate Tom Selleck, but his most recognizable role for much of the television audience today is Contillued on page 11 WRUC 89.7 fM *STEREO Here it is: The WRUC TOP 89.7. These amazing records received the most airplay on WRUC this past week. Are you familiar with these bands? If not, tune in to 89.7 FM because you're seriously missing out; there's a hole in your life. Remember to call up and request your favorite music, or even music that you would like to get to know better, at 370-6151. This Week Artist-Album Last Label Week 1. China Crisis, Flaunt the Imperfection 2. Velvet Underground, VU 3.Snnths,~eatls~urder 4. Cucumbers, Who Betrays Me 5. Tears For Fears, Songs from the WB Verve Sire Fake Doom Polygram 1 6 4 ., 2 Big Chair 6. Game Theory, Real Nighttime Enigpla 7 7. The Three O'Clock, Arrive Without Traveling IRS 8.97 8. Green On Red, Gas, Food, Lodgiiig Enigma 8.97. JoanArmatrading, Secret Secrets A&M Program Notes: WRUC is commercial free radio ... look out for WRUC tee-shirts in a rainbow of colors ... The The TOP 89.7is actually aired every Wednesday atlOp.m. · CAMP UNION JUNE 1st CAMP UNION JUNE 1st

\I es were aid Di- pocket, way to he without eluded . gave film to a a Squad\ morous of to ors. He \If you '' said well dig \ DiCenzo Vincent CBS him had ~ films: It.\ His Jones,\ of San He Five- Files,\ (mini She 's Law\ credits \Close Kind,\ Vegas Con- credits and is most much of today is ~iously or Last Week 1 6 e 4 2 7 8.97 a ~ st ... DiCenzo at Union ••• Continued from page 10 that of Rock Hucmon · s assistant on the hit ABC series \Dynasty.\ He signed for an original six and then an ad- ditional seven episodes which have now been completed. He has not· renewed his contract and will probably not do so unless his role is enhanced as promised. Nevertheless one thing is for sure: DiCenzo was not killed off last week for he was not even invited to the wedding. In any case, the viewers will just have tci wait until next season to discover DiCenzo's and the rest of the east's fate. As for the \Dynasty\ cast itself, DiCenzo says, \We're very close.\ There is a lot of cutting up on everyone's part and it is \a fun set to work.\ with his career now: \My agent does not have to go out and get . b \ 1 m,e JO · s any onger, said D1Cenzo. He can pick and choose from what is offered to him as he desires. CONCORDIENSIS. May 23t 1985 Page 11 THE ARTS At this time, DiCenzo is not committed to any other projects besides his role of Nick for the eleven year old series of Union 76 commercials and his voice overs for the animated ''SheRa\ series for Filmation and the ''Princess of Power\ series for Hanna-Barbera. In 1983, he starred with Ben Gazzara under the direction .of John Cassavetes in \Thor- nhill,'' a play based on the life of playwright Eugene O'Neill. He has also just finished Steven Spielberg's latest production \Back to the Future\ which was directed by Robert Zemeckis (\Romancing the Stone\). It stars Michael J. Fox (\Family Ties\) and Lea Thompson (\Fast Times at DiCenzo's success has not spoiled the sense of his roots at Union: \This campus is magic.\ He views the addition of wom~n. to the College today as a defm1te asset. He also sees students as \more in charge'' of the campus than they were twenty-three years ago when the faculty held a tighter grip. However, one thing does still remain the same: \Twenty odd years ago, everyone was career oriented,\ said DiCenzo, and they are again today. \Careers are only what you want them to be,'' said DiCenzo, \not what people say they should be.\ His general advice is for students to travel: how are \you going to know your .place in the world if you don't 'know the world?'' He also advised students to be ~ooudrtthGestures Debbie Goll'inand Michael Heller clown around as .the comedy troupe opened for ese past two weeks. Court Gestures perform at Nott .... ·tenacious about whatever career path they wish to follow. He has a number of friends who never pursued the career they wished to: \there's an emp- tiness in them\ from \pursuing something they did not want to pursue,\ added DiCenzo. lmprov ·Comedy Excels · Ridgemont High\). DiCenzo is quite pleased with the picture and looks forward to its release on July 17. DiCenzo is very comfortable Did you k11ow • •• As for DiCenzo's own future, he will undoubtedly continue in his efforts to end world hunger and to support The Clear View School for Children with Learning Disabilities. He is also an acting coach who enjoys teaching; a gourmet chef; a collector of antiques; and a lover of plants, cats, and dogs. He presently lives in Santa Monica, California with his wife Donna and their children. May is National Asparagus Month? Vehicles Included in the Plim. • By ALYSSA HOROWITZ Court Gestures, the im- provisational group, has become the most talked about act on campus. This zany comedy troupe conforms to the audience; they come with very little material planned. It's members include Scott Bloom Debbie Gollin, Nancy Greenhaus, Michael Heller, Adam Rossman, Mark Wasserman, and Marcy Wilder. Their most recent per- formance was this weekend, as a prelude to the campus play God. The stage opens to darkness, and the audience is faced with seven serious per- formers. In the slightest in· stant, the music starts, and the Your credit record, if you have·one, must indi- cate payment made as agreed. • •$400 Purchase Allowance. You may choose a new 1985 Thunderbird. LID. Tempo, Mustang, Es<!ort. Bronco II or 'light trucks up to F-250. ·~Approved Credit. .lust meet three simple Make your best deal ... use the $400 a5 a down payment or receive a $400 check directly from Ford after the sale . conditions: • YoiHDUSt have verifiable employ· ment that.begins within 120 days of your vehicle purchase at a salary sufficient to ordinary living expenses and your vehicle payment • You must have proal that you have graduated or will graduate and be awarded at least a bachelors deg;-ee within 120 days. CalltDennis J; Hurley, Jr. Orange Motor~ Company, me. 799 Cen~al Avenue, Alb~ny, N.Y. • 489-5414 actors are transformed into a mirage of zany dancers getting down to \Beat It\ with Adam Rossman giving a hilarious imitation of Michael Jackson. This sent the audience into hysterics and proved to be only the beginning of a memorable performance. One standard devise that the troupe uses ·is the concept of a machine. A performer starts the action with a repeating motion, and then, in succession, others add to this expanding piece. The action is concluded when one yells \freeze ... , .and a new topic is brought forth. To show the versatility of this group, topics were thrown out by the audience, and the Gestures acted them out. For instance, one viewer suggested the line \drop dead\ and two performers, Debbie GoUin and Nancy Greenhaus, proceeded to amuse the audience with their third grade script that used the line regularly. A third devise used by the troupe was a mechanism called \typo\. Here, one actor pretends to type, while reciting the actions of a story which the other members act out. The scene was a bathroom situation. In this particular act, the comedy turned into silliness, as one found Dean Mammola in the bathtub with Mrs. Marra and a student, discussing student policy. This situation, which played on the familiarity of the audience, served to be unrealistic and the audience was unable to relate to it. This point, however, is only a small detail compared to the rest of the show. One of the funnier skits was the group's rendition of Star Trek, with Scott Bloom playing Captain Kirk. Here, one found that the voices matched the action. The group added in a McComical McTwist, with a McDonald's in space. The group continued to perform an old favorite ren- dition of Lucy and Ricky Ric- cardo. Some memorable per- formances were given by Marcy Wilder as Lucy and Mark Wasserman as Ricky, with Michael Hiller as Fred and Nancy Greenhaus as Ethel. The troupe then went on to surprise and delight the audience with a Batman and construction worker scene. Here they employed the use of various props. The performance contained many sexual overtones. These innuendos went over well with the audience, as one found himself gasping for breath. One such scene was in a medicine cabinet, with two performers acting as tampons, discussing their future. A second of such comments included a reference to sex as \you put your peanut butter in my chocolate.\ This delightful, memorable event, ended with Paul McCartney and Wings' song \Live and Let Die,\ which seems appropriate for this spontaneous performance. Keep an eye out for the Court Gestures performing around campus. Their comedy is really worth your while.

. :I i it . :·, '! . \ ·,j: _1 i ' I' J; ,:\ . I .. I • : ; ' i; ~ : . .'.1 f ' . -~I ,] . '·' 1 .. , , ·.1 r '. . ' I ' PageU THE ARTS CONCORDIENSIS, May 23, 1985 '7\.T ' b • d 1 \'ott to .· e mlSse ••• Two More Plays Theater has been abounding on campus all this spring, anQ with the successful closing of GOD-by Mountebanks, it is time to \officially\ announce the openings of two plays which the Department of the Arts has been busy preparing this term. Under the direction of Professor Barry K. Smith, the play Summertree by Ron Cower runs .from We~nesday, May 22 , through Saturday, May 25 and I Am A Woman by Viveca Lind- fors Will run May 28, 30, 31, and Junel. played by Paul Seline. Sum- mertree is set in the Vietnam era, and it flashes back and forth through time, showing the young man as a little .boy growing up with an extremely protective. mother and an often- absent father Who impos~s his own expectations on the young man. The role of the father is being played by Mitch Bern- stein, the mother by Melinda Phillips, and the little boy by Matthew Steckler, son of Professor Charles Steckler, Department of the Arts. other characters in Summertree include Joel Rosenfield as a soldier and ShaunaBavar asthe young man's girlfriend. The Stompers, a Boston-based band, came to UnionFriday to help celebrate Fitzhugh Ludlow Day Both shows are cast with Union students. I Am A Woman is a one-person show which will feature senior Diane Sadak in 36 different characters. These ·characters. flow through the play in a montage-like sequence exploring the lifetime journeys and struggles of women. Well- known personalities such as Marilyn Monroe, Mrs. Charles Manson, Sigmund Freud and Anne Frank speak directly to the audience about their own feelings and experiences of life, love, careers, family and .self- image. Live improvisational jazi piano will be provided by Mr. Jeff Presslaff. Both of these plays have been called haunting, provocative, and thought-provoking. They should not, -however., be mistakenly construed as \heavy\ drama by those on campus who wish to fill their spring term with en- tertainment. In this person's opinion, neither- of these plays coUld be seen without making a lasting impression on those who are open to watching and listening to the statements being made. Remember, although we offer no beer, no free T-shirts, no hats and no live bands, we do promise evenings of theater you will never forget!!! on West Beach. - Pare's Photos On Display By CATHY MARKES Staff Have a few minutes between classes? Then make it a point to wander into the lobby of the newly restored Arts Building before May 31. You'll find an intriguing photo exhibit of sixteen prints by Richard Pare, Photographer and Curator of Photographs at the Candian Centre for Architecture. Although all of these photographs were taken in Egypt, don't expect a historical exhibit-you'll find none of those infamous pyramid or desert shots here. Instead, this is a refreshing view of a country which I had always envisioned to consist mainly of sand. According to Pare, Egypt is not only colorful, but also a varied country rich in texture and architectural intricacy. Many of Pare's prints depict different Egyptioan mosques and cities. These photos appear deceivingly simple, yet upon close examination, I found that I could probably look at them for days and still discover new details. I found \The Tomb and . Mosque of Barquq\ to be especially fascinating. This photograph was taken overlooking rows -of abandoned abodes with the mosque in the background, yet the distant objects here convey the greatest intricacy. I thought that this was an extremely effective approach, since a photographer's object of in- terest usually appears closest to the lens. Another print which surprised me was... yes, a desert photograph. Entitled \The Edge of the Kahrga Depression\ I considered this piece extraordinary because the land had absolutely no texture. The land was not flat and even rocky in spots, yet the sand formations appeared glasslike, without a distinguishable ripple. This photograph obviously creates an optical illusion, since sand has to be one of the most tex- tured earth elements. The last photograph in Pare's exhibit is \Postcards Cairo\ a flashy colorful look at . a street vendor's postcard stand. Again, Pare pays special attention to detail. The successive rows of vivid tourist \hot spots'' The Arts Department Announces Richard Pare Artist-in-Residence at Union College British-born Richard Pare came to the United States to study photography at the Art Institute of Chicago, receiving his M.F.A. in 1973. Since then his activity both as photographer and I ' historian of photography has been intense. He IS the author of two widely acclaimed books: The courthouse, A Photographic Document(l978), and Photography and Architecture, 1839- 1939(1982). He has exhibited in New York, cologne, Berlin, Paris, London, Montreal among other cities. His most recent work, subject of the small exhibition mounted by Unioi1---.Professor of Photography Martin Benjamin, in the Bur~s student Forum, Arts Building, Union College, 1S the result of the past year spent in Egypt. Here his vision confronts both the realities of Egypt today and the pervasive 19th century Western obsession with Romantic Orientalism. He contrasts the eternal desolation of the desert with both ancient and contemporary Egyptian efforts to survive, weaving the three themes together into powerful images by means of large scale color prints. provide a simple yet satisfying final ta&te of Pare's talent. My advice: definitely see this exhibit-it's well worth your time. Hats · off to the Arts Department for their choice of a show which is both unique and quite interesting. Summertree's action revolves around a young man as he reflects on how his struggle to be his own person affects the relationships of those closest to him. The young man is being ~l lf.L $] DRAGON GARDEN Chinese and American Restaurant 120 Mohawk Ave. • Scotia, N.Y. (518) 377ue6637 · I ·····•··••· :·:·: .. :-:~: ~~~ I \One of the Top 1 0-lestaura~s\ \Without a doubt, this Restaurant in the· Knickerbocker News is the BES..T CHINESE Capita I District\ 120 Mohawk Ave. Scotia PRESENTS: PRESENTS TONIGHT, MAY -23 ACT 1: The iazz tunes of old as sung by Wendy Baer ACT II: Folk music and original tunes by Ken Morr and our own Brian Laux Shows at 9:00 and 11:00 • Tickets $1.50 pespera.tely Seeking Arts Write.rsl Ca II Madon·na, If no answer call6155 lli ·····•····· j~it~~~j :=:=:=:-:-: ' f. II

s Sum- Vietnam and boy an often~ his he young father is ch Bern~ Melinda boy by son of Other as a asthe been They be as those on fill their ith en- person's .plays making a those who and beer, no no live evenings never N.Y. ~''I II. ~:.·.····. ::::::::::: ifi ~=:=:=:=:~ :::::=:·::: :·:·:-:~::: :::::::::-: •.. . ..... •.·.·· ::::::::::: ·······:·:· . :::::::.;-: ·:·!·:·:·:· CONCORDIENSIS, May ~3. 1985 Pagel3 Attention Residents of fox\ Dov1dsvn: - :5 d ~ tr) 0 . 1-t SATURf)AY ·MI\Y 25-th tf=OO PM. · CLAMS- Cffi CKEN -51\LA DS ~SODA- BEER-CORN *Camp Union All-Campus* *B ·aQ * a·r· • ue . DATE: June l, 1985 TIME: Noon-6:30p.m. PLACE: West Beach PRICE: One.Meal Card :Punch OR $1 w/Union ·college ID Guests--$2.00 tiCKm: Available at West on Thursday, May 30 during dinner (5:00-6:00 p.m.l on Friday, May 31 during lunch 01:30 p.m.-1:00 p.m.), and in front of Carnegie on both Thursday & Friday. FOOD: All you can eat: Ct:licken, Hamburgers, Hotdogs, Potato, Macaroni & Tossed Salad, Watermelon, Ice Cream, Ice Tea, Lemonade, and Beer. **Please Note--The success of this Bar-b-que is contingent upon your cooperation. Please get your tickets! And if you're not on the meal plan and/or you have friends who will be visiting--pay the dollar or two dollars we're asking--we doubt you'll find a better deal! Thanks for your cooperation and we'll·s~e you on June 1st!! ·The Camp Union Committee Union Arts~ Presents Two Plays in the Nott B:pm Tickets for fBEJ5 admisgion at 8ox Offic~ in Carnegie Bldg. CHUC Teaching Assistant Positions Are Available for Next Year For More Information Call the Office of Classics & PhU.osophy x6231 WINTER CARNIVAL T-SHIRTS ON SALE IN STUDENT ACT. OFFICE $1--Medium Only It's the Main Event!! RICHMOND'S BOXER ·SHORTS PARTY Friday, May 24th music * dancing beer* punch SUMMER TREE by Ron Cowen May 22, 23, 24, 2S Winner o,f off-Broadway's Vernon Rice Aunrd. A brilliant first play ••• concerned with the pro- blems and fears of young people in tcxlay' s uncertain world. The play is both a Joyous expression o.f the good thi.rgs in life atrl a powerful indictment of war and the senseless nuste it can bt:irg. \ ••• beautiful and s~i tive; irmaeasurable mouing •• ~, - Clive Barnes .. I Am A Woman by Viveca Lirrlfors May 28, 30, 31, Ju J , A journey o.f one woman ancl rmny women alto travel be~ the ccmJines of a \cause\ to discover the deeper qitesti.on.s of mat it means to be human and the need \to bring back to all .human bei.rgs the essential nature of their potential, to allow anrmth am tears to men and independ- ence ancl drive to women.\ I· AM A m:M\N is also a journey for biane Sadak '85 tmo brings her enot:'\ntt:nts artistic talent into focus as she creates the 36 characters found in the play. Live improvisational music of JeJJ Presslaff adds still further depfh and beauty to this production.

.,-, ·,', \'\ •: I Page 14 CLUB NEWS Newman Folk Group- Sunday evenings at 6:30 p.m. All singers and musicians meet to prepare for the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. New members welcome. Newman Appreciation Pic- nic-Monday, May 27th at 5 p.m. in Jackson Gardens. Raindate May 28th. RSVP 37o- 6087. Prayer-Scripture Group- Wednesday, May 29th at 11:30 a.m. with Sr. Joan in 4th floor Lounge, Carnegie. Tutorial Program-Any Union students interested in tutoring one hour a week at St. John the Evangelist School please contact Liz Karazim, 37o-6774. CLASSIHEDS Great Hattie St. Apt. for Rent summer and/or fall. Spacious and furnished, right across from Memorial Field. Reasonable rent. Call X 6701, X6801 or X6822. LOOKING FOR AN APARTMENT ·for the summer? There is now available a 2- person apartment located on University ( 4 minutes from campus). It is in excellent condition, and very reasonably priced. If you are interested, call 372-7838 or 370-6484. Schaffer Library will hold a booksale in the main lobby on Tuesday, June 4th and Wed- nesday, Jtme 5th. The sale will begin on Tuesday at 8:30 a.m. and will end at 4:00 p.m. the following day. Hardcover. items-$1.00, Paperbacks-$.50. IDEAL APARTMENT AVAILABLE FOR THE SUMMER! Modern kitchen and bath. Excellent condition- TWO BEDROOMS! Call soon! 377-8991. All messages must be typed and received by Concordiensis no later than 4:00 p.m. each CONCORDIENSIS, May 23, 1985 Tuesday. The office is located on the fourth floor of Carnegie Hall. We cannot be responsible for .personals that do not run because of space limitations. A limit of 4 typed lines does apply. SCRATCH!! FOR SALE-:Fisher stereo system-receiver, turntable, cassette deck, 2 speakers. $175 or best offer. Write to Box 23. $100REWARD Forthereturt1of a red, men's, ten-speed bicycle· with large, \off-road\ tires. Missing since Saturday. Please contact Debi at 382-9597. Absolutely no questions asked. DIDYOUGETA LOUSY LOTTERYNUMBER? Well-We have the solution for you! There is now a room available in an apartment for next year and also another position for the upcoming fall term. It is located at 518 Hattie Street. Excellent condition, low heat and rent too! Call 381-4559 today! Thank you for your support in the elections last week. I would love to represent your ideas in next years student forum but· I need your help in Friday's run- off. Please vote. Thanks again, Aaron Carrel FRESHMEN GUYS Will you be stuck in Hickok next year? Grab one .of the largest rooms in the dorm and net yourself a gorgeous, two- person, built-in loft. Take ad- . vantage of the ten-foot ceiling with this superbly-designed structure. The price is negotiable; drop by Hickok 111 and discuss it or call David or Art, X6986. Help clothe Ethiopian Children! Donate your T-Shirts. A box will be in Mrs. Marra's office until June 10th. Sponsored by: MTV, Catholic Relief services and Newman Club. llle (.d:::e Ch:A 1/EV\']€ 1?- Col1.oci -ra f9e -nere yoJ nave ·1t .. /t Y11vS+ pe b2Jtev-/ · ... AND HI\S TWO ATOl\'lS IN ~E. JHIRD O!'t.B rTf\L • NOW- f\f!.;£.. ·nu:: R.E.. A NY QvliOSIIOrJ.S? ) () WElL I pi£) YOU E:V£R IJOt.JP£.R. il-IA! MAY~£- tvE. AR~ DR£AMiriJ6 NOW AND T\J.~ fft we:'~~ r<.rALL Y AWAj(£: Wl-ltN We 5AY 1 No~ 11-1~ WE: c.vERE.. D~EAI'\IrV6 TI-\ErJ ?' . ~ ~ ~ I...:J:::!l\---~~u.___f:f!!.ft:t L.l!,l-..!..l......L..I-..,--L.:..-__:_....j ~~~~~~~ L.\ L· --l.-1.-...!--~ MAY I R£MIND YOU Tl-1 fiT You ARE- lrV It CHEMISTR-Y CL.A$.5; yDurJ6 MAN!! / · CHUC teaching assistant positions are available for next year-For more information call the Office of Classics and Philosophy at 6231. PERSONALS. DJV---.:This personal consists of a simple, (but com- prehensive), heartfelt thank you. Do no ili is wonderful~a first from your average, or- dinary, clueless ideal. ZOO CREW: The days are flying by and finals will be here before you know it. Thank you for a good year~l'll miss y'all. With love, .from your RA-Chris To Pete, Jodi, and Alyssa: Here's to a long lasting friend- ship. I'm so glad you've all enteredmylfe. Dr. Ruth JUNIORS: Don't miss it! Our \PUB NIGHT\ is May 3oth. There will be lots of food, a cash bar, and the record hop featuring DJ Marty Glaze. Be there!! A. (Smiley-face with vertical eyes )~One of these days ... is tomorrow!! Do it upl! Harve G.L.- Thanks for being such · a colossal friend. P.S. This is the beginning of the end for me at the big U. DEAD SHAEFFERS, get pumped to go live on PsiU! Cliff-Will this weekend be my opportt.inity to pay you back for my night of bumper pool? I hope so, but if not, Happy Birthday anyway! J'espere que tu t'es amuse beaucoup ce dernier weekend. Peut-etre vous avez pris une douche aussi? A bientot. Mr.Beej Jay, Thanks again for sup- plying the fresh talent! We all appreciate it! l P.S. Who owes who money? The Hi cock train l ! Cement-You've been awesome lately. Thanks for the phone calls . . To the Union College Young Democrats: You couldn't possibly raise enough money, but I hope you had a gond time anyway.-Eric Marjorie and Michelle: Heard any good ones lately? Just remember, I'll be watching you whenever you're watching me-An unintimidated ad- mirer. 2-4-6-8 who do we appreciate JAY-JAY-JAY Yeah Jayl! !! (and Vicki & Jennifer, too) BECK BECK BECK BECK aka the p squared man-If I can't have you, I guess I'll go for J.J. He isn't too cute, but he sure is funny. Is it true what they say about black men? Signed the fourth floor I love you (and you know it!) Don't move. JAY: Was that $40 or more likley 40 cents??? Choo-Choo CAMP UNION IS COMING . ' JUNE 1, 1985

assistant next and consists com- ~elt thank ~rage, or- days are be bere you y'all. RA-Chris Alyssa: ing friend- you've all Dr. Ruth it! Our May 3oth. a cash cord hop Glaze. Be vertical ... is Harve g such· a of big U. get PsiU! be my back for pool? I hope Birthday t'es amuse weekend. ~z pris une tot. Mr.Beej for sup- We all Who owes train! ! ve been for the Young couldn't money; a good time Michelle: lately? be watching watching idated ad- e appreciate ~ah Jay!!!! ~ECK BECK d man-If I guess I'll go but he it true what men? fourth floor know it!) $40 or more Choo-Choo ~lNG . 1985 CONCORDIENSIS, May 23, 1985 Page 15 SPORTS fBagnoli Optimistic About Future I Lady Rugge~s Romp By C. SLOTNIK Sports Staff situation he Wil:l be· in, so the. not desired to add Division II ne~ stu~ent will not be disap- teams . to his schedule. \We pomted .m the fall. have been playing the .same The 1985 Union Colleg.e football team is not going to have star quarterback Dan Stewart, nor All-American defensive end Brian Cox. However, after talking with head coach Al Bagnoli, I can assure you that next fall will not be a disappointing season for the Dutchmen. AI Bagnoli and his assistants have worked extremely hard the past six months to recruit student athletes capable of filling the voids left by the departing senior class. · RecrUiting has taken Bagnoli across the country as· evident by the geographic diversity of the players on the current roster. However, Bagnoli concentrates on New J·ersey, Connecticut, Massachusetts and New York, and is pleased with his tremendous success in greater Boston, northern New Jersey and the entire state of Con- As a general group Bagnoli feels \this is the best recruiting year we have had sfuce I've been here, we are recruiting a different level kid now and as a result we are competing with Lafayette, Colgate, and ivy g League schools for certain {!:. players.'' Bagnoli emphasizes .... the size, speed, and overall ~ .0 balance of the players coming o · to Union next year. ';.. type of schedule for 80 years, and there's no concrete reason · to change now.\ Similarly, Bagnoli has no great desire to move upto a Division 2, or 1-AA coaching job unless the con- ditions are ideal. His main desire is to be successful; which is something he is able to do at Union. When asking coach Bagnoli what his goals were for next Al Bagnoli and his staff have .a put a priority on recruiting ~· players at skill positions :while '6._ · trying to increase the team's depth at four key .positions: defensive end, Unebacker, defensive back and wide receiver. When looking for players to fill specific positions Coach AI Bagnoli intends to lead the Dutchmen to victory once like wide receiver, Bagnoli considers two types of players. First, the player who has played wide receiver in high school, and has been a proven success. But, Bagnoli also looks at kids that are great athletes, that might have been a quarterback in high school, but are not college level quarterbacks, and therefore might be able to adapt well to wide receiver. Coach Bagnoli stresses the importance of being honest, and explaining to this type of player the again in 1985. necticut. Bagnoli feels that both the school's academic diversity and the football program make Union an impressive place for prospective athletes. Although Union has had much success at the Division III level the past two years, Bagnoli has year's team he replied, \an unbeaten season, the Lambert Bowl Trophy, and qualifying for the N.C.A.A. playoffs,\ but in my opinion Al Bagnoli will feel a little disappointed without a victory in the 1985 Amos Alonzo Stagg Bowl. Support College Sports Tracksters Conclude -Season By JULIE HALPERN Sports Staff The women's track team finished their outdoor season these past two weeks in the division III NYSAIA W Track & Field Meet at Hartwick College and the ECAC Meet at Bowdoin College. In the states, the team had a successful weekend. Three new school records were set. Cannella Creech ran a 62.87 ( PR) in the 400m trials and then proceeded into the semi~finals where she ran a 63.11, finishing off in seventh position. In the mile relay Creech, Cindy Curtis, Jenny Lee and Andrea Greif ran 4:14.9toppingthe old school record by more than three sec~mds. Creech led off with a 63.4 split handing the baton off to Curtis, who ran a 65.1. Le.e ran the third leg with a split of 63.8 and Greif finished strong with a fantastic time of 6L9. The team placed seventh overall in that event. The 4x100 relay also set a school record, Barbara Etzel, Greif, Julie Halpern and Leona Wetherell ran a 53.66. Others who competed were Halpern, who ran the 400m hurdles finishing in the sixth position. Halpern ran a 69.8 in the semi-finals and a 70.4 in the finals. Karen Krolikowski and Jen Diorio both proceeded into the finals in the javelin. Krolikowski placed fourth with a throw of 117'9\ and Diorio placed fifth throwing a 11~'4\. These three women recetved medals for their efforts and also qualified for the ECAC Track and Field Meet at Bowdoin College. Lee and Wetherell also competed in the States in in- dividual events. Wetherell finished seventh in the triple jump, with a jump of 31'10 1 12'', and Lee ran a 2: 28;8 in the BOOm. At the ECAC meet Krolikowski finished fourth throwing her javelin 118.3 and Diorio placed ninth with a throw of 114.8. This spring season has been quite successful for the women's track team. The team has proven themselves to be a competitive team within the league. · I would like to congratulate. the team for their efforts and wish them the best of luck in the coming seasons. ---·-;o'\iiRSiASONS CHiNEsERisTA-uRANT-J_ Phone: 393-5440/393-5441 Hours: sun·Thu 11 :30·10:00 Specializ .• em· Cantonese. ·,. Fri·Sat11:30-ll:oo I Closed Mondays Szechuan & Hunan Ta.ke out or Eat In I We prepare our foods with • • • \ Just t1 Little Bit of Luck and a Whole Lot of experience We're in Walking Distance 10% Student Discount for Take Out Orders Only w 1 Student 1.0. 183 Nott Terrace: Across from Holiday Inn ~~~--•- uiBc -·-·-•••-••I•Dilblitt·~ •••••. ••!.••• •••-•••-·-•-•••-\••• -·-···-~-· by SPORTS STAFF While most of you were at West Beach two weekends ago, the Union women's rugby team took a, road trip to William Smith to play what would be their best game ever .. With steady improvement throughout the term and a victory over William Smith last spring, the Union ruggers were very hopeful. Hopes became reality from the first kick-off ·of the game. With devoted coach Dr. Dave Benziger shouting from the sidelines, Union controlled the game and came up with a 10.4 victory over the gx:een team. The first big score of the game was made ·by co-captain Betsy Boutwell, who with the help of the serum, dragged the ball in for the first try for the first time · in Union women's rugby history; the conversion kick was made by Union's hooter Gretchen \Spike\ Becker. Gretchen was also instrumental in preventing William Smith from scoring. With excellent ball-handling by the backs and team play Union drove down for the second try. Fleet-footed wing Nora \Spot\ Tuthill dodged her opponents and sprinted in for four more! Nora also had an excellent defensive game with good tackling. One of the keys to Union's offense was newcomer Angela Burke. Her quick moves and aggressive play constantly moved the backs up the field. Next to her was heads-up aggressive inside center Connie-Sue Oriel who con- sistantly attacked and kept William Smith bewildered. Another new member of the line, Leslie Weiner, played the displaying her ballhandling skills and fast moves. Last, but not l~ast of the backs, is Michele \Boots\ Tobin who had game- saving tackles and key running plays. All newcomers and the backs show a lot of potential for the seasons to come. De~pite a lack of the regulars, the serum pulled together for a strong attack on William Smith. Veteran Kathy Hawke and injured Sue Jasper and Maureen O'Day were sorely missed. Taking . their places were Cathy Markes and Bar- bara Doyle, who both played an awesome game. Another new wing forward, Pam . Conners played aggressively and carried the ball many times despite recently returning from injury. Union's new hOoker, Lori Cooper, was key to Union's domination of the lineouts. Much to Union women~s rugby benefit, most of these girls will return in the fall. Despite painful injuries, senior second row, Caroline Brandenstein played an excellent game, as always. Having her best game ever senior Jenny Sconyers was always ripping the ball and leading the serum upfield. Senior serum half Kate \shoot- the boot\ Douglas, with her smart use of plays and leadership of the line was key to Union's victory. Last and certainly not least, co-captain Allison Barry played her last game to the hilt. Always a strong force in the serum and a true leader, she led her team to victory. She, along with the other seniors will be greatly missed. A · special thanks to Ellen Ruffing from the rugby team for playing with William Smith even though it was her second game ever. Although the spring season is over, the ruggers are already looking forward to a stronger season in the fall with the return of most of this spring's team. [Netters Finish At .500] By SPORTS STAFF SCHENECTADY - The men's tennis team at Union College split its last two mat- ches with rivals Middlebury (a 7-2 win) and Williams (a 7-2 loss) to end the 1985 season with a 5-5 record. Freshmen Greg Bell (Melville) and George Walker (Silver Spring, MD.) led the team as they each posted a singles record of 7-3. Junior Bruce ,Goldsmith (West Hart- ford, CT.) was next with a 6-4 mark . Goldsmith, who led the team as a freshman with a 9-2 singles record, is now 17-9 for his three- year varsity career. Goldsmith and Walker combined to post the best doubles record at 6-1. The duo of senior Rich Molot (Scarsdale) and Bell had the next best mark at 6-3. · Molot, a three year let- terwinner and two-time Most Valuable Player, ends his career with a 19-10 singles record and a 2()-10 doubles mark. Freshman Greg Bell looks to put overhead away. (/) (/) Q) I.. c.. +- .... 0 u C/l > .0 0 0 .s: 0.

,, ':' ; ,;; '. ,, . ··' ''· \; i :··· \' Page 16 .,_ rc 0... >- .0 .E 0 .r:: 0.. +- - I... I... Q) ~ - rc 0... >- .0 o. 0 ~;il ..c& a.\ +- - I... ,._ (!) ~ - rc 0... >- .0 6 - 0 .r:: a. CONCORDIENSIS, May 23, }985 1985 SPRING SCOREBOARD BASEBALL (16-9) St. Lawrence 6, Union 5 St. Lawrence 7, Union 5 UNION 12, Albany St. 6 UNION 14, RPI 9 Hartwick 6, Union 5 Hamilton 5, Union 3 UNION 6, Oneonta 4 UNION 4, Oneonta 1 North Adams 11, Union 3 RPI 7, Union 3 UNION 5, Norwich 1 UNION 2, Norwich 1 UNION 11, St. R·ose 2 UNION 3, Colgate 4.. (11) UNION 6, Middlebury 4 UNION 6, Middlebury 5 UNION 7, Albany St. 2 Siena 11, Union 6 GF Tourney UNION 6, Hamilton 5 UNION 5, Colgate 4 UNION 6, Hartwick 3 Williams 4; Union 3 UNION 16, Rochester 5 Hobart 10, Union 0 UNION 7, Hobart 1 MEN'S LACROSSE (8-6) UNION 8, Conn. College 5 UNION 9, Bowdoin 7 UNION 13, Rochester 5 St. Lawrence 12, Union 4 Geneseo 7, Union 6 UNION 15, Albany St. 7 UNION 8, Oneonta 4 Middlebury 14, Union 4 UN ION 13, RPI6 Williams 7, Union 6 (20Ts) Hamilton 14, Union 9 UNION 8, Siena 7 Colgate 12, Union 5 UNION 8, Hartwick 6 SOFTBALL (12-4) UNION 4, Siena 2 UNION 4, Albany St. 3 UNJON 27, Skidmore 8 UNION 12, Skidmore 11 UNION 8~ St. Rose 1 UNION 13, Skidmore 3 UNION 13; Skidll\ore 8 UNION 14, Siena 4 Oneonta 3, Union 0 Hamilton 6, Union 1 UNION 9, RPI 6 (10) Russell Sage 3, Union 0 UNION 5, Russell Sage 3 NYSAIAW TOURNEY UNION 4, Oneonta 2 Oswego 9 , Union 3 UNION 7, New Paltz 6 -finish in third- WOMEN'S LACROSSE (5-7) Skidmore 12, Union 8 UNION 15, Rus.sell Sage 9 UNION 10, Ca·stleton 5 Rochester 11, Union 6 William,s 10, Union 9 UNION 12, Army 10 Middlebury 22, Union 2 UNION 21, Russell Sage 4 Hamilton 12, Union 8 Oneonta 14, Union 7 'UNION 12, Wells 7 Hartwick 12, Union 9 MEN'S TENNIS (5-5) UNION 7, Hamilton 2 UNION 8, Siena 1 Albany St. 5, Union 3 RPI 5, Union 4 Colgate 7, Union 2 UNION 5, Skidmore 4 Bingham ton 5, Union 4 UNION 6, Hartwick 3 UNION 7, Middlebury 2 Williams 7, Union 2 MEN'S TRACK (2-2) RPI 90, Union 73 UNION 82, Hamilton 72 Union finished 7 of 13 with 30 points in the Binghamton Invy. Union finished 3 of 15 with· 85 p.oints in the Hartwick Invy. Albany St. 98, Union 92 UNION 92, Hartwick 11 ' NYS MEET Union finished 6 of 22 with 39 points. WOMEN'S TRACK (0-3) Hamilton 91, Union 33 Union finished 8 of 11 with 20 points in the Albany St. Invy. Binghamton 92, Union 29 Albany St. 63, Union 29 NYS MEET Union finished with 7 pts. GOLF (3-4) Skidmore 409, Union 447 RPI 443, Union 447 UNION 410, Hamilton 418 UNION 410, RPI 422 Williams 308, Union 323 UNION 323, AIC 333 Union finished in a tie for. second out of 10 teams in the Hartwick Invy. Middlebury 421, Union 438 Jayvee Wome~'s Lax (6~2) UNION 7, Skidmore 3 Rochester 9, Union 3 Williams 7, Union 4 UNION 11, RPI 8 UNION 13, Albany St. 5 UNION 11, Oneonta 3 UNION 9, Wells 1 UNION 10, Hartwick 9 tm=!mt.!'Bi~ik\' r. ~; . ; ~,.f~



' ' PageB IDOL r, 1 ' •. ~ ' ! r DOL IDOL IDOL IDOL IDOL IDOL IDO I ., . ' J : . l, .. :' i :;,; i '•i • I ; :'1! ' .. ''I' I ·. I . ' i' ' ., ! ' . ·-· ,' '' ' In Memoriam by Marcy Burstiner The party was cancelled~ I hated myself for feeling Depressed and disappointed But I had loo_kedforward to this night. Dancing, drinking Talking to those /rarely see Flirting with those I would never speak to Sober. But a cloud hung over the campus that night And the flag was at half mast. Yet still! wished the party was on. I had not known him at all I had not felt the absence Except for a strange knotting, gnawing Pain, growing within me. A cloud hung over the campus that night And the girls spoke of deatho The conversations would not end There was something to talk of that night. . They 'II be speaking tomorrow of something else, I thought to myse(f at dinner that night Yet somehow my appetite had disappeared And the knot in my stomach kept gnawing inside ·And I could not stop my -trembling hand A cloud hung over the campus that night The flag was at half mast. Indian Summer frail faded leaves aflying yielding to the call another cycle jaded see the raker's toil by Won Lee a still Indian summer shades the winter clouds senseless lwnination glow the autwrm's pretty eyes stands near a naked tree its leaves neatly raked holding seasonal review feels the frigid winds ahead, comes a painter to mimic the still Autwnn day_ his love once new afractured seen with each stroke he makes passion's corkscrew twirling smear the canvas with pride there's no realness in artistry except in painter's eyes Celestial Unrest by Joy Runyon I hear the stars rmnbling angrily overhead. Though they shine brightly, their hearts are dark and· sad: They know they are distant from me. They know you called for that distance; you wanted it. Trying to reach down their tiny arms, trying to wipe tears from my face, Trying to make me forget. But their dust-the legendary stardust that cures all ills, makes one slumber, and empowers one to fly- is a lie, and has never existed for me. My head has never been annointed with that dust, my heart, never inebriated by it. I hear the stars rwnbling angrily overhead Though they float weightlessly~ their hearts are heavy and leaden They know you plan · a game with my heart. It is called hide-and ... seek You hide your love, and I ... I must unbury the treasure I cannot see by the dim light of my wounded heart. . What once shone with coral and brightly coloured starfish has been obscured by the stingray of loneliness, for you have floated too far from my shore. Out there, there is no moonlight to guide you, no stars by which you can chart your lonely, empty voyage, for the stars are above me, consoling me, trying to scrounge up some of that mythical stardu~t. Effort-s are wasted. · . · I hear the stars rumbling angrily overhead. Though they orbit noiselessly, their hearts are wailing and crying: They know they have locked me out. You installed a deadbolt in your heart and are heedless of the urgent, pleading knocks. Every secret passage has b.een blocked, each and every passageway, locked. How can I re-enter your heart to deliver my message if you refuse to accept the telegram which bounced back and forth across the wires, searching for its reluctant recipient? I hear the stars rumbling angrily overhead. . Transition by Janice C Thompson. Morning ••• The clock changes from 7:30 to 7:31 Movement doesn't come easily But I want it to be different. Life is a series of changes, they tell us, But they never tell us how much We have to leave behind. The day goes on. Things seem routine, normal. I look closer and realize That with every distant eye That used to be friendly and inviting, With every silence That used to be laughter, There is progress! We're finding success We're finding happiness It's lying here with me As I turn off the fight. I would be content If it would stay with me ••• Maybe just until .. the morning?

IDOL PageC DOL . IDOL IDOL IDOL IDOL IDOL IDO Trut:h I float on nothing lam dead My love.r touches me I breath A fbre·lgn scent I've cheated .Sickness My lover leaves me Sharp stainless steel A new lover arises One who is cold ByAGD One who hungers for the warmth of my blood Sickness My new lover cures I float on nothing · I m perfection Hello again you said But I didn't listen. By Janice C. Thompson My words on paper and in the air Are almost meaningless. Sometimes I wonder why we accept what we hear When each one of us has the amazing talent Of saying one thin-g and meaning another ..• Entirely. And if I look at you, Tell you 1·1ove the smile in your eyes, How will you feel When you don't find it in the mirror .. Take my hand and believe what I say- 1 have learned the art of appearances, And 1 am who you want me .to· be. Hello my friend- How are you doing today .. One Christmas Day- By won Lee fr.idgid wind blow over the concrete sidewalk, homeless fragile ghosts rest crouched by locked iron gate fragmented jingles escapi·ng a hint of cheap red wine one turns around to look away to hide his thorny crown. looked for a miracle around this cold merry town couldn't find it in a turkey · weighing near twenty pounds, yet a round the corner on the darker side, saw a ghostlike fragile greyed eyed woman giving her earned soup to a h1.mgry child. her heart's of gold deeper than a bloom- holding out the light in the dark, these forgotten what sayst thou now of that ca·rpenter's dream ... carry on, dying flower carry the cross of courage. woke the next morning back in my own room full of junks its walls torn, the worn out needle feels the turning grove speakers resounding, the song was over, soon. I looked out of my window just to see why, everyone is selfish there's good reason to be, free don't come easy ... free don't come for free. living in the fast lane built on tensions, blank expressions pervade in pool of confusion, no room for kindness a sign that you're weak, the luminescent of that bloom kindles the hope in search. Sand Castles By Marcy Burstiner I sit and watch the laughing children Playing on the beach. I wonder what has happened; It was long ago that I went Running on the beach laughing, giggling with the rest, Making mighty castles out of sand; Then watching as the water Washed its walls into the ocean; Nothing changed. The castle dissappeared, The sand, my life, went on As it went on before. I build my dreams now As I had once built Castles in the sand. They rise up mighty, but once achieved Dissappear slowly and my life continues As it had before. Constantly making castles Building dreams in the sand.

' ' ' ' f ., I' ' ' I l , I 'f. ' ' \ I ·, . 'I, i:• ' l' l t l I j ' 1 :' . l ,. ~ : I ' ' . i , .. f ' j_: l' .. ' . {j ., ., ' PageD IDOL SUBMIT YOUR ART TO IDOL Untitled by Sarah Bittleman Open doors and windows on flying fish in this deliberately dotty world Yellow flowers and triangular bushes Coiling that creates resistance Not gleening any features of worth Causing anger where there shouldn't be any Closing doors and Blue sky through windowpanes turns black and grey Green is no longer growth but rot Red is no longer flowing blood but a clotted wound. They Did The Mash Julienned carrots lay out on the table keeping the celery company. Iced in cold water, by Joy Runyon they spent most of their lives on death row, waiting to be sent to the dreaded Cuisinart. You never bear their terrified shrieks or adamant protests but you see them spin wildly as you crush the revolt to deeper depths with the tampering instrument. Off in the distance, you can hear the radishes scramble farther back into the Produce Drawer after seeing their fibrous friends mutilated, crushed, and julienned. Fear grips the artichokes, the onions, and the dill, all running for cover. But they, too, all become Sliced, Diced, or Julienned, and relentlessly munched upon and dipped. Clockwork · by Steven Glazer All the hands move around, bound together in time gears set into motion by some unknown way back. Lost ,in time I continue in unceasing rhyme. Turning endless clockwork keeps all motions in line I have no choice but to follow in the set track, A.H of the hands turn and keep me in time with time so that I dress conservatively and look fine and fit in; stay oiled and in gear with the whole pack. Turning in time I'm caught up in a bigger rhy·me. Don't talk to me of free will. We're drunk--not on wine but time: It continues, keeps control--keeps years intact It's hands set me in motion and keep me in time. ~,nd I must stay in time. Though nothing is mine I can't exist without it: Outside is ever-black~ So turning in time I stick with the bigg:er rhyme. no choice but to continue in this mime voiceless, powerless to put in the spheres a crack, hands forever push me around, keep me in time and lost in time I continue the endless rhyme. After dinner tea Anonymous Monk's bell tolls the day to close full moon shines her lonely colour tainted clouds quietly drifting listening to the fading~echoes, night is quiet; I'm a day older Memories scatter .... flapping wings hungry for air the last of the thoughts take off it's already early December flapping wings in seeming chaos carrying them, over the waves ... toward an island where warmer climate will be feeding them A cup shatters on the floor below. An accident~ my clumsy elbow staring at the broken edges I istening •.• there is no more resounding echoes; iust omnipotent silence ... 'midst the dark eerie kind of cold.

, .. - .. '0 ::r 0 -+ 0 r;r -< (\') 0 .... \' ~ 0 Graduation Issue!! I. C.XlV, No. 24 Schenectady, ~ew York ..----------- - Bulk~te U.S. Postage .faid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 May 30, 1985 Is ''Gel Time'' Feasible? A!;;sociate Dean William-Daniels believes \Gel Time\ will work if tl'le dl'y-rur\'is soec-esSful. By CARRIE CERRONE Staff The \Gel Time\ proposal which originated from the now defunct CUE ( Conunittee on Union Education) as one of several suggested measures for reducing the high pressure of Union's ten week trimester system, may be implemented next winter-term. Students will remember that \Gel Time\ is the plan where classes meet either on a Mon.-Wed.-Fri. or Tues.-Thurs. basis. William Daniels, Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies and Academia Affairs, representative of the ad- Parking Restructured By PETER MOHR .. staff During the upcoming sum- wer, there will be several alterations made to roads and parking lots on Union's campus. These changes ar~ pril:narily a result of the renovations to Carnegie Hall and Alumni Gym, which are expected to Q€gin in JUly. Both buildings will require worksites where the contractors may assemble materials and place trailers. · The Carnegie worksite will be located at the east end of the lane in front of Carnegie, as well as the road approaching the building from the east, will be closed to vehicular traffic. Access to the VanVranken intersection will remain open from the parking lot behind the Physical Plant. The worksite for Alumni Gym will be placed in front of the building's east facade. Thus, Alexander Lane will be closed at the intersection of South Lane and at Butterfield Hall. Access to the Science and Engineering Complex will be available at Butterfield. gravel lot at the corner of Nott Terrace and Seward Place will undergo improvements. A sidewalk will be constructed at the east end of the lot and lights will be added. Jack Hill, Director of CampJJS Operations, believes that these changes will increase the use of the lot. The other major parking area will be the lot next to the Physical Plant. Hill states that, at the current time, this new lot has increased tbe number of spaces available over the 1984 figure. However, with the elimination of the Carnegie and Alumni Gym lots, tbe number of parking spaces will decline next year. Accor- ding to Hill, the net result is still a gain over the nwn:ber of spaces available in 1984. Next year, the accessibility of several lots to different members of the campus community will change as well. The Wells House lot will be available for faculty and staff from 7 AM to 5 PM on the week- days. At all other times, the lot will be available to students. The small lot across from Wells House will be available to students only. Hill admits that this lot is already used primarily by students. The two Continued on page 4 ministration, faculty, and a member of the AAC (Academic Affairs Council), noted that the \Gel Time\ proposal was en• dorsed by the AAC in October 1984 with_ two \caveats\. The first was that student opinion be consulted and the second called for the Registrar to conduct an experimental dry-run. · The dry run is a computerized model to determine whether or not all classes and required labs will be properly accommodated by the new designated times. Pending a successful dry run, Dean Daniels sees ''no struc- tural reason\ why \Gel Time\ could not be enacted. He coneluded that this change is \pedagogically and academically sound,\ although it will require adjustments on the part of both faculty and students. The faculty has taken \no action\ on this proposition since they convened at the October 24, 1984, general meeting when the above stipulations were made. The faculty l]as yet to pass, reject, or amend the \Gel Time\ recommendation following its . examination of the dry run findings. Registrar Dwight Wolf confirmed that the dry run, computerized. model will be completed by the end of the summer at which time he will present his results con- cerning \Gel Time\ feasibility to the faculty and ad- ministration. If approved, \Gel Time\ can be implemented as early as Winter Term 1986. This conversion, it has been implied, ~ > .D 0 0 r:. a. North Lane will be closed just above North College, where posts have already been con- structed. A chain will be placed across the posts to prevent cars .from advancing beyond that point. The chain will only be retnoved when deliveries will have to be made to the bookstore. The location of this chain will not affect access to the Arts Building, allowing cars to drive to the rear of the building. The road which runs from behind the Arts Building to Carnegie Hall will be closed, however. Campus parking facilities will be reorganized to accommodate construction. Beginning in the summer, the Finals Schedule *-Pp. 10-11-* Distordiensis Inside!! will most likely be for a specific and limited trial period, although ~o definite plans have been formulated. Professor William Zwicker, Chairman of the AAC, would like student anxieties relating to a lack of student consultation to be mitigated. He stressed that the faculty is \sensitive\ to student concerns. Professor Zwicker suggested that students address the faculty and administration on specific and relevant issues surrounding the proposed \Gel Time\ enactment. He feels that the Student Forum Poil, which was conducted in October 1984, did not sufficiently enumerate the students' reasons for voting for or against the issue. Of the 706 students who voted, an over- whelmingmajority (83 percent) voted no to \Gel Time\; 15 percent voted yes; and 2 per- cent were undecided. Tom Megerian, Student Forum Representative to the AAC, remains uneasy about the lack 'Of cooperation and com- munication between the faculty, the administration and the student body surrounding this issue. Megerian feels that it is essential for students to be the \uninvited guests\ and express their views on the submitted proposal to the faculty and administration. He acknowledges the advantages which CUE specified and adds that perhaps better class discussions could evolve because . of the opportunity to cover more material during a class period. Megerian feels that, although most are apt to resist change of any form, we should \try Gel Time\ on the condition that it runs for a definite and limited trial period. After this elapsed time, which students should be able to negotiate, the system must be reviewed and revoted on by the entire college com- munity. It is important to note, however, that the potential exists for disadvantages to the implementation of \Gel Time''. Many students have argued that the longer classes 165 min. or 100 min. l exceed the attention span of most students for certain subjects, especially math and science courses. A second legitimate a rglllnent is that specific subjects. for example. math and forri~(n languages, rely on dally repetition to enforce concepts and-or vocabulary. If a class is scheduled on Thursday or Wednesday, the student will go five days until the next class period. This \Gel Time\ may, on the contrary, create a Continued on page 4

. i Page2 CONCORDIENSJS, May 30, 1985 Sale of Girllng Center ••• o:issent Voiced By JANICE GROSSMAN Contributor The Girling Center has been up for sale for approximately three years. Recently, a group of Student Forum Represen- tatives, headed by Junior Trustee, Shari Midoneck, have decided to voice their opposition to this situation. · appraised at a value of $300,000 and put up for sale. It was to be . sold to a contractor who was · going to build modular homes on the property. HoweverJ the town of Niskayuna deniea ap- proval for this project and these plans were cancelled. The property is still up for sale, and Hauser doesn't feel that any of the initial reasons for selling the land have changed. Land Retained? Alan Kriegstein1, a sophomore at Union, soaks up some rays in front of the library. The Girling Center was purchased in March of 1970 through the use of. funds . donated by Wallace Girling. A press release dated March 10, 1970 stated that this land was intended as a site for in- tercollegiate baseball and football fields. The land also boasted an artificial ice skating rink, an outdoor .swimming pool and other picnic facilities. Shari Midoneck, however, feels that the land should be retained by the college. After the new party policy that was enstated this spring, with the strict noise ordinances of the town and all the new con- struction in progress on cam- pus, the land may serve to become even more important to the student body. Says Midoneck, \Even if we lose money, everyone who thinks about the Girling Center has a positive feeling about it . , . everyone's happy there.\ Instead of letting it deteriorate ~ she feels the school should in- vest some money in its upkeep. A group·of students composed of Student Forwn members Shari Midoneck; Julie Mountain, Steve :Benson, Doug Landon, Andy George and Chris Siler will meet Friday to draw up a proposal to remove the land from the market, which they hope will be passed by Student~ Forum. If passed, this proposal will be given to President Morris to present to the Board Street Politics Increase (CPS)---On March 19, 1965, a then-obscure student group demonstrated at the Chase Manhattan Bank in New York to protest the bank's loans to the segregationist government of South Africa. Forty-three students were arrested.1t was the first act of civil disobedience by Students fot a Democratic Society ( SDS), which soon helped lead a tidal wave of student protest against the Vietnam War and nurtured a range of social movements. Student activism has waned since then. Then, six weeks ago, all things changed: Protests of American involvement in South African politics and, to a lesser extent, of U.S. Central American and nuclear policies, erupted on some 60 campuses. Students have blockaded buildings, staged month-long sit-ins, held hunger strikes, and organized class boycotts. Thousands have been arrested. · The abrupt, prolonged and quite disruptive spread of student street politics this spring has confused a good many campus political ob- servers, and left others won- dering if the dormant period of activism is ending. \Something new is definitely going on,'' says Washington State University sociology professor Joseph DeMartinini, who has studied the assimilation cf the leading student activists of the sixties. \The question is 'Does it stem from a deep ideological com- mitment or are they responding to the issue of the moment?\' Some see parallels between the beginning of the sixties-era protests and this spring's protest wave. \The civil rights movement in the early 1960s gave legitimacy to public P.!\i>tests DeMartinini says. The arrests at the South African embassy in D. C. that began last fall are doing the same thing this year: public protests against apartheid have become legitimate. They are an acceptable form of social ac- tion.\ \The anti-apartheid protests could very well represent an eighties manifestation \of the civil rights movement,\ con- curs Kenneth Green, associate director of a UCLA-related institute that surveys college freshman attitudes. Social scientists cite other similarities between the sixties and the current unrest: \Public pr(_)tests against apartheid have become legitimate. They are an acceptable form of social action.\ +They arose while the nation's economy was healthy. \If students are less worried about getting jobs, they can relax from their studies and get involved in other activities,\ says Seymour Lipset, a Stan- ford professor who has written several books on student ac- tivism. +They concern moral issues. \South Africa is a perfect moral issue because everybody is on your side,'' Lipset says. \Even parents of the student protestors are forced to say 'Of course you're right, it's just the way you're going about it.\' Vietnam was divisive, but no less of a compelling moral issue to those protesting against it. +In both cases, there's the chance to achieve tangible The Economics Department & Economics Club will host their ANNUAL PICNIC in JACKSON'S GARDENS on Friday, May 31 , 1985 from 4-8 pGm. Admission is FREE and ALL ARE WELCOME! Get ready to start oH Camp Union weekend right! results. With the sixties protests,. it was getting out of Vietnam. Now it's selling stock in com- panies that do business in South Africa. University governing boards, state legislatures and elected officials are in- creasingly advocating divestiture. \It's hard not to come out against apartheid,\ Lipset says. In Berkeley, Cal., three municipal court judges have disqualified themselves from conducting trials of som:e 150 anti-apartheid protestors, explaining they agree with the students' cause. There are obvious differences between 1965 and now, too. \These student protestors make it clear they are not full- time demonstrators,'' UCLA's Green says. \They emphasize that even though they are blocking the administration building, they are still acting as students. They're there with their books as well as their banners in some cases.\ The land was never developed as planned. According to Vice President for Finance and Administration, John Hauser, about three 'Years ago a large group of trustees convened to discuss the future usage -of the center. They found that Girling served only two main purposes: as a swim club for faculty, students and alumni, and as a site for occasional social events such as the reunion pieinc and the Clambake. At the same time it was noted that the operating costs for the center, inclUding everday maintenance, far exceeded the revenues it had been generatingo Therefore, this group reached the con- clusion that the Girling Center was used far too infrequently to justify holding the property indefinitely. The land was of Trustees. · Congratulations to the new members of Tau Beta Pi: Green says his most recent annual survey of the attitudes of college freshmen gives no reason to expect a long-term student movement. Only 3.9 percent of this year's freshmen expected to be politically active within the year, slightly below the 1982 figure and well below the all-time high of 4. 7 percent in 1967. Douglas Calvey Laura Cavoli Glenn Claydon Charles Cohen Brian Davis Robert Davis Elizabeth DeLeo John DeMis Cynthia Dimauro Jeffrey Doolittle Dorin Grecu William Lombardi Joseph Low Timothy Lowry Gerald Madden William McRoberts Lyla Meader Deni Rightmire Lorna Rushforth Mark Sage Christopher Sawchuk John Shewchuk While the UCLA survey, co- sponsored by th~ ~eri~~n Council on EducatiOn, did fmd students moving slightly toward liberal political values, Green says the movement was too small to suggest a new protest era. David Milavec Jeffrey Nadler Richard Pollack Scott Remillard Lisa Freed, President . Keith Smith Julie Stone Patricia Vieta Thomas Will Jeffrey Wilson James Schwartz, Vice-President Brian Weick, Treasurer Thomas Barrett, Secretary Conduct Cases 1984-85 Summary as of 5/24/85 A. Cases Students Orgs. Total Cases Filed 22 4 Guilty Judgments 17 1 Not Guilty Judgments 2 0 Cases Dropped or Settled w/ o Hearing 3 3 B. Charges Flled (Note-Total number of charges will exceed number of cases because of multiple charges per case.) Section !-Behavior Threatening others 8 3 Section II- Verbal Abuse, Intimidation 4 Section III-Interference with right to personal privacy 3 Section V- Theft 2 Section VI--Vandalism 6 Section VII-Entering or using College Facilities w/oAuthorization 4 1 Section IX-Failure to Comply with College requests 4 3 Section X-Furnishing False Information 1 Section XI- Violations of College or Forum Policies 7 2 Section XII-Behavior Stemming from Excessive Use ofAlcohol 3 Section XIV-Violations of local, state or federal laws 1 1 Section XV -,Harassment of person participating in judicial process 1 C. Actions Taken Dismissal from College On..Campus Residence Privileges Removed Social or Standing Status Probation. Reprimand and/ or Warning Work or Educational Projects Formal Letters of Apology Alcohol Counseling Recommended Fines or Restitution 2 2 1

of $300,000 was to be who was homes the deniea ap- ~t and these The sale, and any of selling the however, should be After that was ~. with the of the new con- on cam- serve to Says we lose thinks ~nter has a it . . . there.\ deteriorate • shoUld in- its upkeep. omposedof Shari Mountain, Landon, Siler draw up a the land they by Student~ proposal President Board hforth ~r Sawchuk h on Orgs. 4 1 0 3 3 1 3 2 1 2 2 1 CONCORDIENSIS, May 30, 1985 Page3 Union Seniors to Graduate Soon!!! In 1982, he was appointed by President Reagan to the National Science Board, which assists in the formUlation of major national science policies. HP- was elected chairman in 1984. Union will award him an honorary doctor of civil laws degree. In front of Schaeffer Library - at .10 a.m .. on June 16, 1985, UmoiJ., wtll award ap- proximately five hundred sixty b~;ichelor degrees, one hundred twelve masters' degrees, and one doctoral degree.. This ·ceremony wiU mark the College's one hundred ninety- first commencement and wfi\ be held at Achilles Rink if it rams. Sydney H. Schanberg, columnist for The New York Tinies, will deliver the com- mencement address at the graduation ceremony. Schanberg will serve as honorary chancellor and will be asarded an hOnorary doctor of letters degree. Schanberg graduated .from Harvard UniVersity in 1955 and, after serving in the Army in Germany, joined The New York TUnes as a copy boy. He became a reporter on the metropolitan desk in 1960, covered the New York Legislature in 1967-1009, and then received his first foreign assignment in New Delhi. He won several awards fot his coverage of the war between India and Pakistan, and in 1973 opened a bureau in Singapore, from which he covered stories in Cambodia, Indonesia; the Philippine Islands and Japan. He was one of the few Western correspondents to witness the fall of Cambodia, receiving a Pulitzer Prize for reporting \at great risk.\ He became assistant metropolitan editor in 1976, and currentfy is a columnist on issues in the New York metropolitan area. The College also will award honorary degrees to Harry B. Ellis, reporter, broadcaster and author; Itichard E. Greenleaf, p~ofessor of history and director of the Center for Latin American Studies at T·Ulane University; and Roland W. Sch- mitt, chairman of the National Science Board and senior vice president for corporate research and development at General Electric Co. . Harty Ellis graduated from the Worcester Academy in Massachusetts in 1940. His education was interrupted by service in the Army during World War II, in which he received five battle stars, a Bronze Star medal, and a battlefield commission. He received his B.A. from Wesleyan University in 1947, earning membership in Phi Beta Kappa and soon af- terwards began his career as a correspondent for The Christian Science Monitor. He reported from BeirUt, Paris and Bonn before becoming the newspaper's senior economic _correspondent in Washington, n,c. He has made regular appearances on radio and television programs such as \WashingtQn.Week in Review,\ was a panelist for the October, 1980, presidential debate bet• ween Jimmy Carter and Ronali:l Reagan,. and is the au~hor of eight books about foreign af- fairs. The College will award him a doctor .of humane letters degree. Richard· Greenleaf received his Ph.D. from the University of New Mexico and also did graduate work at the Univer- sidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexi@J, the ,Escuela Nacional I Amendments Passl By DAVE GULLIVER Staff On May 17, two revisions to the Constitution of the Student Body appeared on the student .forum represen- tative ballot and were approved .by popUlar vote. One change, proposed by Junior Trustee Andrew George, provides for the election of class officers while the second, proposed by Robin Weiner, wol.lld permit the selection of a sorority member to the Student Forum . ·doesn't matter whether a man or woman is chosen,\ said Weiner. She added, \Now that the fraternities and PanHellenic are being represented directly by one person, they will work together for their goals.\ In order to change the Con- stitution, first the proposed change must be brought before the Student Forum. After being -S~t aside for a week, it is voted upon by the Forum. If ap- proved, the change then goes to· the ·student body for ratification. de Antropologia e Historia, and Mexico City College. He held several administrative ·and teaching · positions at the University of- the Americas in- Mexico before joining the Department of History at Tulane in 1969. Most recently, he was installed in the university's France Vinton Scholes Chair in Colonial Latin American History. He is the author of numerous articles and books about Latin America, including Tlte Mexican Inquisition ·Of the Sixteenth Century. His many awards and honors include the Distinguished Service Award from the Cordell \Hull Foun- dation for -International Education. Union will award· him an honorary doctor of laws degree. Center) in 1951, assuming his first managerial position in 1957. As senior vice l_)resisent, he directs one .of the world's largest and most diversified industrial laboratories, which performs studies in chemicals, electronics, engineering physics, and materials. RolandW. Scmitt received his undergraduate degrees in physics and mathematics from the University of Texas and his . Ph.D. in physics from. Rice University. He joined the General Electric Research Laboratory (now part of the Research and Development The library court is empty now, but in eighteen days approximately five hundred and sixty seniors will be waiting. to graduate. Reun.ion Week Schedule FRIDAY, JUNE 14 8:00e.m. Alumni Golf 7burnament. The Edison Club. 9:00 a.m.-6:00 .p.m. Registration. Lamont House. 1:30 p.m. 2:45 & 3:45 p;m. 3:00p.m. Evening Minerva '• Race. Assemble n<:Br Garis Field, west of Memorial Fieldhouse. A l·mile and 3-mile race ov~r the cross-country course. For all alumni, faculty, guests and seniors. Adults $5.00; Under 12 $3.00. Campus 1bur. Leaves from Lamont House. }acl!son's·Garden 1bur and Lecture with Professor H. Gilbert Harlow. Meet at the Chester Arthllr statue. Class ReUnion Dlnnere. ~:00 p;m.-Midnighl junior ReUnion .. For children l!ges &-16. Memorial Fieldhouse. 9:00 p.m.-1:00 a.m. Alumni Gala-Fest. Girling Center. SATURDAY, JUNE 15 8:15a.m. 9:00a.m.· Noon !O:OOa.m. !O:OOa.m. 11:00 a.m. &late Affairs Brealt(aJJt!SemlrUl:. Hale House .Dining Room. RegUtralion. Lamont_ House. . . Phi &ta Kappa Melltins. ScMffer Library. BeVnfon Cia&~ PhotQ8FUpl~& Aleunder .Field. Al1011ni Para.de. 12:30 & 1:00 p.m. \A Union of People.\ Social Sciences Building, Room 016. 12:30·3:30 p.m. Alumni Picnic. Girling Center, Seniors and parents are invited. Adults $8:00; Under 12 $4.00. 5:00p.m. Evening ·6:00 & 8:00 p.m. 7:00p.m. President's Reception. Hale House Court. For all seniors, alumni, and 'their families and guests, and faculty. (Rain location • Hale House. I Baccalaureate Mcus. • Memorial Chapel. Class Rel.Tnion Dinilera. Steamship Round Buffet. West ·College Dining Room. Steamship Round 9f Beef, Seefood Newburg, variety of vegetables, salads, desserts, beverages. Adults Sl2.50; Undu 12 $6.00. Cash bar available. Early reser- vations suggested by calling the Alumni_Office at 518/37o-6168. ll<rrace Cauncll Dinner. 9:00 p.m.-1:00 a.m. Saturday Night Celebration. Achilles Rink. Entertainment and dancing to the Blg llarid Sound of AI Cavalieri and His Orchestra. Seniors \!'d .their parents. will be guests of the Alumni Office. Obtain· tickets in ad· vance at the Alumni Office, Lamont \\House. SUNDAY, JUNE 16 S:IXHI:OO a.m. S:Q0-10:00 a.m. Bon VOJI<I&• Brealr.frut Buffet. West College Dining Rrom. All you can eaf: eggs, french toast, bagels. sausage, danish, juice etc. Adults S6.00; Under 12 $3. 00. Coffee, doughnuts and soda available outside Carnegie Hall. Under the new. system Qf_ elections, the representative who received the most· votes will become class president. The person with the second highest total will be vice president and the third person will be class treasurer. The main reason for this change, according to George, is to give more power to the represen- tatives. \Nowtheymayha\!e an easier time getting financial backing and perhaps be able to do something as a class once or twice a year,\ said George. He hopes that this system will promote class unity and provide a social outlet for students. George said that the idea came about at last year's freshman dinner and was supported by Dean of Students, Joseph M8mmola. The student body passed both these resolutions. The Class Officers Amendment passed 1with three hundred fifty-four students (77 percent) voting yes, and one hundred seven (23 percent) voting no. The Greek Amendment passed by a larger margfn with ·three hundred ninety students (84 percent) vQting yes, and seventymfive (16 percent) voting no. · Noon 12:30J?.m. Forms on Alexander Lane. moves to Nott Street, onto Lenox Road and Union Av~nue, through tile 1884 Gate; dovm South Lane to Memorial Chapel !where it will be reviewcill, to seating in the Library Plaza for the Convocation. Alumni Convocation. Schaffer Library Plaza. Welcoming of the Class of 1985 into the Society of Alumni. Presentation of Alumni Gold Medals B!ld Faculty Meritorious Service Award. Address and present&· tion of parade trophies by President John S. Morris. Chime• Concert. Memorial Chapel, Peter K. Smith '70. !O:OOa.m. Commencement ExerciHS. Schaffer Library Plaza. (Rllin location -Achilles Rink, tickets required.) Immediately following the Commencement Exercises. members of the Class of 1985 will be awarded their diplomas at the following reception areas: Division I Majors: Hale House Lounge and Garden Division ll Majors: East End-Field House Division III Majors: Chester Arthur Court Division IV Majors: Science & Engineering Court Graduate Degrees: See above locations. Parents and other guests are cordially invited to meet with faculty members at the diploma presentation. Light refresh· rnent will be available. Under the original description of Student c_Forum represen- tatives, one seat is allotted to the Interfraternity Council president or his representative. The new phrasing states that the seat is allotted to a ''Greek representative\ who is to be \jointly determined by the Interfraternity Council and the PanHellenic Council.\ Weiner, a Delta Gamma sister, believes that this will be more effective. \The issues that the Forum dealt with were not simply fraternity matters and related to the entire Greek system.\ She hopes that this will foster better relations between the IFC and the PanHellenic. \It The Editorial Board of Concordy mugs .for the camera. ... Q.J ..0 :;) ... <!> 'C :> 11) 0 > ..0 0 0 J: 0.

·,I' ., ' '' . ~ Page4 . CONCORDJENSIS, May 30, 1985 Schedule Changes Tested .c .... 1.. ttl co .c ttl 1... ro (/) >- ..a 0 0 .c Q; Academic Affairs Council Representative TomMegerian, feels it is essential for students to voice their opinions on Gel- Time. Continued from ~ge 1 discontinuity as far as material cohesiveness is concerned. Students have also commented that a \Gel Time\ schedule is very conducive to procrastination since assign- ments may not be checked for as long as five days. Steve Benson, President of the Student Forum, disagrees with the processing of the proposal with strong student opposition. He feels that it is imperative that students' recommendations be con~ sidered with seriousness of ·· intent. Benson feels that it is possible to negot~ate such a Parking Situation Altered Continued from page I parking lots behind Sigma Phi and Alpha Delta Phi will be accessible only to students. At the current time, these :ftoeas are open to the entire campus community, although mostly students use them. These changes will be in ef- fect for two years after con- struction begins in the summer. At the end of this period, the Carnegie worksite will become a turnaround. Since the new College Center will contain the bookstore, deliveries will no longer have to be made at the Nott. Thus, North Lane will be closed permanently, allowing the road to be used solely by pedestrians. Hill has stated that the road between the north end of the Science and Engineering Complex and the new machine lab may be eliminated and replaced by a sidewalk. This plan is not definite, however. All of these plans were developed by the ad- ministration in response to input from various members of the campus community, such as the Office of the Dean of Students and the Staff Association. Hill says that there are no further changes expected at this time. Although the ad- ministration has discussed building new lots and banning student parking, neither of these ideas has been im- plemented. · Given the restrictions on space, it would be difficult to construct a new area for parking. Hill states that he remains open to suggestions for improvements. The cost for these plans will be covered by the $14 million bond issue, released for the two major renovations. Hill states that the percentage of these funds allocated to the parking lot alterations is a \minor por- tion.\ During the summer, there will be less substantial renovations to several buildings on campus. The new mail room will be finished in the basement of Richmond. Improvements will be made to the public areas of West College. The doors will be replaced, the corridors will be painted and will be given new ceilings, and the stairwells will be renovated. , In Davidson, the lounge will be replaced by one which will be similar to the new lounge in Fox. The top floor of Old Chapel will be completed as well. Next ~ HAND~ADESILVERJEWELRY year, this floor will house many of the activities which are currently located in Carnegie Hall. The new kitchen for Hale House is also expected to be .completed when classes resume in September. Some of these plans, such as the new Davidson lounge, are expectedto enhance student life on· campus. The alterations to the parking. lots and traffic flow should minimize the hassles which would be created by the two renovations during the next two years. proposition\ as was done with the party poUcy. He is also in favor of trying ''Gel Ti.Ine'' on .a limited trial basis. Chris Siler, President-eleCt to the Student Forum, agrees with Megerian and Benson and asserts that it is \not fair\ to continue with a measure without student approval. Siler does not think . that Tuesday parties will be discouraged by the \Gel Time\ scheduling, · although she remarked that the proposed timetable may in- terfere With aftemoon athletic practices (MWF 3:15-4:20; TTh 2:40-4:20). Chris Siler assures that should the proposed new scheduling prove detrimental to students, the administration will be notified of student op- position. In our current scheduling .plan, the majority (75 percent) of all classes meet for fifty minutes on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and -Friday, although variations exist. For example, approximately 18 percent of all classes are held for one hour and . 50-minute periods on Monday and Wednesday or Tuesday and Thursday as motioned by \Gel Time\. The remaining seven percent are taught either in the evening or at odd times. CUE has stated three distinct advantages ·Of the \Gel Time\ proposition a$ compared to Union's present format. The offered schedule is aimed at .alleviating the rapid pace of course workloads, while maintaining roughly the same r1umber of class hours per week '!I (200 minutes for MTThF and 250 minutes for MTW'rbF classes). Secondly, there will be a later first class (9 a.m.) and longer periods for seminars and art courses. Thirdly. this timetable allows for the much publicized common meeting time for lectures, committees, and clubs on Tuesday and Thursday .from 10:40 a.m.-12:50 p.m. The rec..ommended schedule: MWF:(8:40) 9-10:05, 10:15- 11:20, 11:30.-12:35 (12:55), (1:40) 2:00-3:05, 3:15•4:20; TTh .(8:40) 9-10:40, 10:40·12:.50 (Common Meeting Time), 12:5()..2:30, 2:4().. 4:20. It is emphasized that all faculty, administration, and student future involvements with \Gel Time\ are contingent upon successful completimi of the computerized drY run which will be conducted this summer by Registrar Dwight Wolf. 18 Days until Graduation *' Imported INDIAN CLOTHES & GIFTS Complete Une of PIPES, SMO~NG ACCESSORIES & Imported CIGARElES & TOBACCOS· ..... lmprlnted ROCK & ROLL-GROUP T-SHIRTS A unique nighttime view of the Nott Memorial. DELTA GAMMA • PHI DELTA THETA I I ''Sunset On The Ocean ,, .__ Party ~ ~ Fri., May 31 ,~ l ·6-? at .Phi Del! DJ-MUSIC-Dancang Beach AHire Requested - Champagne Prizes for Best Tan, etc. Gin & Tonics Blue Whales Beer & Snacks leis For Allll-- JUNIORS If you are interested in winning $10,000 but missed last· Monday's meeting, be sure to see Prof. Klein (55123) about the Watson Fellowship.

red pared to nat. The aimed at I pace of , while the same . per week ., 1F and250 'classes). be a later nd longer ; and art timetable publicized time for and clubs sdayfrom 1.m. The chedule: ), 10:15- 55), (1:40) ~Th (8:40) (Common ·2: 30, 2:40- that all lion, and 1lvements contingent tpletiori of run which .s summer Wolf. • lOR last· be Klein the '- OJ .0 ::> '- (!) -c ·::;: Ill 0 >- .0 0 +- 0 .r::. a. - CONCORDIENSIS, May 30, 1985 .. . . Congratulations Class ot-1985 1935 Class Crisis Already the seniors are beginning to get tired of an- swering the question, \What are you going to do after you graduate?\ After the first few hundred times the question becomes annoying. It is even more annoying When one can't answer it. And most of them can't. The graduates of 1935 want to take their places in the adult world,_ but the task is more difficult than ever before. The cards are stacked against them. Only a few will succeed. It is the old story which has been repeated ad nauseam ever since 1930: there are not enough jo,bs to go around. Society has spent a lot of mo~ey on the present senior class to train them for adulthood and now society does not want them. PageS FEATURES ElGH1'V-EIGHTll )Ul'E 24th, 1885 Some members of the class of 1935 are planning to go to graduate school, to study medicine, law, or work for advanced degrees. They are lucky. For them the inevitable question is postponed for a few years. A few others have their lives after graduation all mapped out with a definite job in prospect. But the rest, the great majority, can find no answer for the question. No wonder they are annoyed. VVe have heard a. great deal about the reckless waste of our economic system which allows thousands to go _ without suf- ficient clothing while cotton fields are being plowed Wlder, which burns com and lets wheat rot in the bins while people starve, which pays farmers· not to work while the numbers on the relief rolls mount higher and higher. But this economic waste is nothing compared with the appalling waste. of youth. The ambitions and energies of most of the class of 1935 are doomed to blight and stagnation. There is not room enough in society for the young men, the present seniors, to find the places for which they have been fitted. The sins of the fathers will be v.isited upon them in the form of social maladjustment and mental disease. They are the unwanted generation. Commencement 1885 ! I Seniors in every college in the country are wondering what they can do when their alma mater has given them a diploma and a blessing. The dilemma they face is a real and practical problem, not the rhetorical situation which commencement orators love- Youth striding forth into the cold heartless wotld. All the romance and glrup.or disappear when the question is stated baldly, \How can I get a job?\ Somehow the seniors must earn a living. They must find something to do that will make .them independent of their parents. Reprinted from May 7, 1935 issue. Commencement exercises were inaugurated by the delivery of the baccalaureate Sermon Sunday evening, June 21, by the Rev. Dr. Ecob of Albany. The Speaker took for his subject the Eternal Yea, basing his sermon upon texts found in Geneses, Romans and Corinthians. The address although ·of a philosophical character was listened to with the closest attention by the audience which completely filled the church. Monday morning the Diplomas Given GROVE EXERCISES were held under the old elm in Jackson's Garden. The com- mittee in charge had been somewhat dilatory in making the arrangements; but all hands taking hold, seats were soon provided for the guests, ·.1· and a platform extemporized for the speaker. Excellent music was ftlrnished on this occasion as during the week by Parlatti's orchestra of Albany. Colorful Rites to Mark 139 Annual Commencement In Memorial Chapel Monday Morning at Ten; Graduate Schools Also Participate. · BEARD WILL SPEAK Honorary Chancellor's Address on 'Knowledge and Opinion' will be Broadcast Approximately 138 seniors will receive their degrees at the 139th annual commencement exercises to be held Monday morning in M_emo~ial Chapel. In addition Albany Medical College graduates will receive their M.D.'s and degrees will be awarded by the Albany College of Pharmacy. Ten men will also receive degrees as of former years. Dr. Beard on Air -The Honorary Chancellor, Dr. Charles A. Beard, will deliver an address to the graduates on the subject \Knowledge and Opinion.'' This will be broad- cast over a national network through the facilities of WGY. A number of honorary degrees will then be awarded by President Dixon Ryan Fox, the recipients to receive their hoods at the hands of Dr. John L. March, senior member of the faculty, assisted by Frederick L. Bronner, assistant professor of history. !fhe procession will begin from the President's house where the men who are to receive honorary degrees will gather. The faculty in order of rank and Honorary Fellows will come next in line -and are to be followed by the seniors, who will enter the chapel last. Reprinted from June 8, 1935 issue. Good Luck Seniors!! The Pipe oration, by Lewald, was followed by the Ivy poem, by McSorley. This was received with hearty applause. Fowler inimitable manner; after which followed the Ivy song, and the planting of the class ivy. The ivy had been procured a few weeks before and rooted in the place in which it was intended to remain. It had already made a growth of several feet, but as the one who had transplanted it was not present, some delay was caused in finding It. After each member of the class had assisted in piling up or pulling· down a spadeful of soil from its roots, all dispersed in happy anticipation of the CLASS..DAY EXERCISES to be held in the evening. At 8 o'clock p.m. Vice- President Bond, in the absence of the president, opened the exercises with an address of welcome-short hut to the point. The oration which appears elsewhere was delivered by Terrill and was well received by the audience; following this was the poem by . Bishop. While we think Mr. Bishop was rather harsher in one or two instances than the circumstances required, his poem was ex- cellent. AU who had expected ...................... - -a&& .... m4DI,•...a•,..•-••••••-•-•-•~~~ttc_...~aa••••-~•a..J •-•- -·-~-c-•_o._4_•_i . FOUR SEASONS CHINESE REST A URANT\I I . Phone: 393-~440/393-5441 Hours:.~un·T~u 1_1:~-10:00 I ~~ S : ... e\\:e ·m Cantonese, Fn Sat11.30 n.oo .f'( pecuuu . - . _ Closed Mondays i Szechuan & Hunan Take out or Eat In \\ We prepore our/oods with . • • Just a Little Bit of Luck and a Whole Lot of experience We're in Walking Distance 10% Student Discount· f.or fake Out Orders Only W /Student I.D •. · . 183 Nott Terrace: A-cross from Holiday Inn t'-MaUI:I!Jrti-IIIDQ_I;:_I_I_B~I-l_I_O_i'M Jatl- ldl •. 'UIIi3V .. btU!IilaB>Wta_A_ ··-11-1-liQI:L-1 -RWIIIUI~:&~• ·.' ~· .,._ .. ' K ' • • • ., '• .... ·,, something good from Foote were not disappointed; his history bringing before the minds of his classmates the experiences .of their college life as clearly, almost, as though they were again being lived. While none were very highly elated with the prospects in store for them, as revealed by Bailey in his prophecy, all were amused by the fates of the rest. Munsell's address was well written and perfectly com- mitted. We think, however, that the delivery would have been improved if he had spoken more in his natural tone. Taken, all in all, the class-day exercises of '85, were superior to those given by any class in the past decade. Tuesday morning the campus assumed a lively appearance, dotted with groups of alumni, shaking hands and exchanging congratulations. At ten o'clock the trustees met in the Power's building. Hon. Hooper C. VanVorst, was elected to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Howard Potter. It was resolved to invite to the presidency of the college the Rev. Dr. Joseph T. Duryea of Boston. At the alumni meeting held in the chapel, Sauel Marsh of New York, presided and A. J. Thomson of Schenectady, acted as secretary. When the ballots for alumni trustee had been counted, it was found that out of the 737 cast, Dr. Furbeck of Gloversville, N.Y., had received 620, the remaining being scattering. . THE ALUMNI BANQUET was under the charge of a committee appointed by the alumni at their meeting last year, of which Judge Yates of Schenectady, was chairman. To meet the expenses, all alumni partaking were assessed one dollar. It seemed hardly just that the graduating class, in addition to the fee demanded for graduating, should be com- pelled to pay for their dinner, but the authorities refused to admit them on any other con- dition. In the evening followed the PRIZE SPEAKING of the juniors and sophomores. This event was far from being as satisfactory as it would have been, had the speakers properly prepared themselves. No one should think of going before the public to deliver his address without being able to recite it unhesitatingly in private at least. Nothing perhaps is more disagreeable to an audience than to be in constant fear that the speaker is about to break down. Cameron, who gave the first of the sophomore orations, on \01adstone's Policy,\ was free from this fault, however, and spoke effectively and without the least hesitation. Johnson followed, having for his subject, \Hugo.\ Mr. Johnson had excellent control of his voice and gestures as well as of his subject, and it was a genuine surprise to the majority of the audience when it was learned that he had not only failed to receive first prize, but had not even come in for second. McMiHen, on \Artctic Heroes,\ broke down and was obliged to leave the stage. Very, came next with an oration on \The Patriotic Philanthropist.\ Blessing, led the juniors in \Aspirations of True Great- ness.\ It was evident also that he aspired to the first prize, and many were not surprised that he took it. . Dorwin, \elucidated the problems\ of \The Impending Crisis.\ The subject was ably handled, the speaker doing justice to both himself and subject. Landon, closed the exercises with a \Change in Administration.\ The oration was full of common-sense, and although from imperfect cormnittal the speaker was obliged to omit several sen- tences, it was done so cleverly that few noticed it. The exercises of COMMENCEMENT DAY passed off without a break, and in a manner satisfactory to all. The orators were Frank Bailey, \The Mediaeval Universities of Ireland;\ A.B. Bishop, \Religious Liberty and the Constitution of the United States;\ A. C. Egelston, \America's Ultimate Seat of Power;\ William Hutchinson, \Hugo as a Reformer;\ Edwin Mitchell, ''Louis Napoleon;\ E. Terrill, \Prince Bismarck's Work;\ and H.D. Griswold, Valedictory. Reprinted from Com- mencement 1885 issue. June 1-7is National Teacher Thanks Week So tell a professor how much you care!!

., ' ' ~ . ' ~~ I 1 ,. ·' . !, ,'I ., ' .. :: '·\ ', 11 . il Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, May30, 1985 FEATURES My Fate and Destiny By JOY RUNYON Associate Features Editor Destiny declared the weekend to be a disaster. Destiny always gets its way. Destiny towers over the earth, gloating at his every- chance to throw someone's weekend into chaos. Destiny worked overtime this past weekend. \No we have no reservation for that name.\ I was out on the street again. The gutter offered a cool place to sleep on that sticky hot night. studies,'' offered my fair-haired friend. \Yeah.. I'm just trying to pass.\ I walked out of the station and .stood on the plat- form. As the train came into view, my mother, who drove me to the station, told me she would miss me . \You'll get over it,\ I told her. And she left. I felt a strange presence at my back. As the train sped up and began to screech to a stop, I felt a hand at my back. As the train sped up and began to screech to a stop, I felt a hand on my back, pushing me towards the tracks. I turned around in terror and saw the greasy man there. Continued on page 9 S.W.E. Women Engineers By CINDY DIMAURO and JUDY DlMAURO One of the lesser known technical societies on campus is the Society . of Women Engineers (SWE). Many people are ... unaware of its purpose and importance to the engineering community. \Why a women's society? What's the matter with the IEEE, ASME, and ASCE?\ they ask. These are all excellent societies which serve a definite need, but the great growth and change in the engineering community in tbe last few decades has shown another type of need. This need involves net only the significant influx of wom:en but also the changing role of the engineer in society. Unlike many technical .societies, SWE is very people- oriented. It tries to keep the high tech world on a more personal and individual level. In this way, SWE helps prepare people psychologically, emotionally, as well as, academically for the working world. In addition, although the name implies a single sexed society, men have been ac- cepted into · SWE since 1976. Several colleges within our own region have a strong male contingency including RPI, Clarkson and the University of Rochester, this fact alone says a lot for the organization and its accomplishments in the last few years. The Society of Women Engineers strives to provide information, advice, and support to all in the engineering comnmnity. Union's student section of SWE has made great strides in the last year to try to attain these goals. Three· panels of speakers visited the campus, discussing topics in all engineering disciplines .. The section also toured the New York Power Pool and attended the Regional Conference held at RPI. This year two or three members will travel to Min- neapolis, Minnesota to attend the National Student Con- vention. This invaluable op- portunity is made possible by the sponsorship of NCR and General Electric Co. These companies' contributions will help defray the costs of -airfare and registration. Their support will enable future women engineers to further their professiQnal development and meet other engineers from across the country. Union's Society of Women Engineers has come a long way in 1984-85, and will continue to increase its activities in an effort to serve the community and become one of the most active technical societies on campus. .The car I rented to drive into New York City overheated on the F .D.R. Drive at precisely 2:07a.m. The only help in sight was a rather ragged-looking man with a ruby-red nose and a bagged bottle of liquor (it could have been Dr. Pepper or something, I don't know, maybe even New Coke). I asked him if there was a phone anywhere. He directed me in a southerly direction. I walked four miles before I was on the George Washington Bridge. There I found a telephone; un- fortunately, it was a suicide hotline phone placed there to provide potential jumpers with a last link to humanity. I had no choice but to call the number. The next morning, I settled my account with the car rental firm's lawyer and found another hotel. The ·room they gave me was as rauncy as a Bob Dylan song. The seal across the toilet had been broken before my arrival, and · the paper drinking cups were encased in used Kleenex. What a swanky joint, I thought. The lobby was done in Early-Salvation-Army decor. The ashtrays from the Eminence Security Bank of Eminence, Missouri, were what gave it the class it had. But I'm not complaining, just because I shared my bed with a nest of newly hatched cockroaches. After one ni&ht there, I escaped on a tram to home. I had to check up on some things and feed my cat. (I don't think she's been fed since I went away to college.) I also wanted to visit my puppy, Sparky. When I arrived home, alas, I found my parents standing over a freshly dug grave, 3\ x 1\ eulogizing, \And Sparky was always a happy puppy, so peppy and bouncy and affectionate . . . \ Sparky had apparently been playing in the highway that ran in front of our farm, not paying too much attention to the traffic. Of course, the fact that my older brother was playing fetch in the middle of the high- way with Sparky wasn't a smart idea, but I don't think it was on purpose that he got my puppy killed. At least my cat was still alive. Lost somewhere, sure ... but still alive. She came trotting home when I called her, so I was relieved of my anxiety. Unfortunately, my parents had neglected to get her spayed before \that time of the year,\ so the chances were good that she was carrying some kittens. I lectured her (my cat, not my mother) on how bad it was to go flirting with any Dick, Harry, or Tomcat. Big Brothers-Big Sisters \Hi I said to the nasal twang that answered the phone. \Look I'm on the Washington Bridge right now and I think I'm going to jump. My car overheated and I don't know what to do. Don't try to save me ... unless, that is, you can send someone to help me.\ I slam- med the phone down abruptly. Five minutes later, a string of flashing red lights sped urgently toward the bridge. They stopped where I was standing and the driver of the head police car put a bullhorn to his lips and shouted, \Don't jump! We are here to save you.\ I thought he meant. he was going to help me with my car, . but instead he packed me into the car and off we went to the Psychiatric Ward of Bellevue Hospital where I underwent examination after examination. After being held there for 14 hours, they released me, ex- plaining earnestly, \You are not pregnant. We can't seem to find any major psychoses, although you should seek some therapy for something or other.\ I asked them to direct me to my car, whereupon they told me that they had no idea I had a car but they could give me a ride to F.D.R. Drive to pick it up if I was sure that's where it was. When I got there, my rented car was intact. I thanked the ambulance driver and he went on his merry way. But the car wouldn't start. I got out and looked under the hood; nope, there was nothing left of my engine. It was a long walk to 63rd Street, where I had hotel reservations at the Hotel Empire. At least, I thought I had reservations there. The head clerk thought differently. I had to get away. I had to come back to school, anywhere, anywhere Destiny couldn't find me. Silly me, I thought Destiny would never find me on the train back to Schenectady ... but it did. It started as I was waiting for the train. A man with greased back hair overheard me getting my ticket at thtJ station and said, \So you're going to Schenectady?\ \Uh . . . yeah.\ \Must be nice up there.\ I couldn't decide whether he was serious, but he looked like the kind of guy who ·would consider Schenectady a nice place to live, so I said, \Yeah it is . . . if you stay on campus.\ \Ohl You go to flchool up there. A student!\ \Uh ... yeah.\ \Well good luck in your All Big Brothers-Big Sisters, their Littles, Group Volunteers and perspective new members are invited to the Union College Big Brother-Big Sister picnic to be held on: Sunday, June 2 in Jackson's Gardens from 1:00 - 4:00 p.m. There will be food and refresh- ments, games · such as volleyball and soccer, and lots of fun. Please call and let us know if you can come (374- 4523) Library Makes Arrangements for Summer Renovations Schaffer Library will be in- stalling compact shelving in one half of the basement during the . Summer of 1985. Students taking summer coursework are advised that periodical titles beginning . with A-Lit will be unavailable from June 17th through September 9th. Microforms, ie. microfilm and fiche will be jnaccessible. '1)le remaining periodical titles, lit- . Z, and the government documents collection will be available for public use. Access. to the basement will be .by elevator only, elevator keys will be av~able for check-out at the, CircUlation Desk. The libracy will have photocopy machines . and microfilm and microfiche . readerS available for, use. The library is undertaking this project to alleviate crowding in the basement. If you have questions or concerns, please see Maribeth Krupczak . at the library. CONGRATULATIONS TO: Union College B.S. of the Year- Maria Herman Maria has been matched with her Little Sister Amy for almost 3 years. During this time they have shared lots of fun ac- tivities and excellent com- munication. Maria 1 s positive attitude and commitment toward her LS has always been consistent and strong. Maria serves as a fine example of what a BS should be. Union College BB of the Year- Tom Megerian Tom has been matched with LB James for 3% years. During this time,. Tom's dedication to and caring for his LB has continually been demonstrated. He has consistently provided friendship and an excellent role model for his LB. Best wishes to these two fine Union College volunteers. GRADUATING? Keep Up with Union Life! Subscribe to: q[oncor ~~Of (.I '\'t ~~o' ~~~~·~r\L .-~~ ~~~· ()~~ i~~~ o~·o 'r:._l· L ~· '\'•cr~o~ For just $21.00, only $7.00 per term--we'll bring you a full year of campus happenings. Keep an eye on Dutchmen athletics. Find out what the administration is doing for student life. See the progress of our carnpus projects. Or just look back fondly and know that you're not here anymore·. Subscribe Now and you'll receive 24 issues for the 1985-86 school year. All it takes is a $21.00 check or money order payable to: QI:nncnrbiensts Box 2577 Union College Schenectady, N.Y. 12308

ers rganization 1ents in the Society of strives to n, advice, lll in the !lity. section of t strides in 'Y to attain ·panels of .e campus, ; in all lines. -The l the New 1d attended mceheldat o or three el to Min- to attend dent Con- luable op- possible by NCR and Co. These utions will s of airfare eir support ·e women ;her their pment and eers from of Women along way continue to ties in an community E the most )cieties on ers the Year- with Duting to LB has provided role two fine out I ife. just a CONCORDIENSIS, May30, 1985 Page7 FEATURES Coke-Lovers REVOLT! ByJIMMANLY Staff Union College is at it again. Students' unrivaled social activism has hit a parallel to that of the Beer March from the Pub to the Skellar in 1973. Like the Beer March, the latest of Union's protests has agaiD gained national attention due to its immense size and burning anger. This protest, however, seems to be even more representative of an emergiJ1g feeling of · more and more concerned students. An issue · that has seperated a generation unljke any such incident in recent memory. The p~oblem began very quietly but has become one of the most violent and controversial issues of our times. The uproar over the New Cokes has hit the Union College campus hard, and with dire results. The rumor of the New Cokes spread through the ~mpus like wild fire early in the menth. Upon confirmation of these fears the students reacted. The initial group was small but determined; their efforts were extensive. They began posting signs statmg such slogans· as \The old Coke was it, the new one tastes like ++++\. The next step of the Coke-lovers (as they named themselves) was to gain campus support. Flyers and information meetings were instrumental m rallying these activist students. Soon par- ticipation on campus hit a plateau not found in many aspects of any political arena. This type of attitude has been key in earning Union the nickname of \The Berkley of the East.\ This anger fmally found its vent in the administration of the school itself. The discontinued use of old Coke on campus was taken as a slap in the face to these Coke lovers. The fateful confrontation occurred on the day of weekly delivery of New Coke to the school. The protest groups gathered secretly early m the morning of May 24th, the day of the first shiprliEmt of New Coke to the school. The students formed a human wall surrounding the campus and ending on the president's lawn. ........ Matt Nankin former Film CommiHee Crier will be on campus this Friday night to announce the .second two Camp Union Movies ; ....... Chants were repeatedly yelled in anger at both the school and Coca-Cola. The main chant of the early morning hours being ''The new Coke is swill, and Union pays the bill.\ The in- censed crowd finally was confronted with an armada of squad cars and Coke trucks attempting to cross the angry lines. This is when the violence began; Pepsi. J:>ottles were hurled at the authorities along with attempts to burn Bill Cosby in effigy. o% \o~ AA\1\~ti cue~! OK, \-10,,, AAO~~R CU~A , •• , At last count some 456 students were arrested, and another 654 brought to the station. The calling of the national guard was seen as essential by . most ad- ministrators. As one put it, \This is a place to learn, not to be active in issues of this magnitude.\ The revolt was suppressed on this day but there seems no assurance that the movement ·is .crushed. The leader of the Coke-lovers, who wishes anonymity for safety reasons, states, \This campus is a bunch of fighters. Just look back at the debate over Miller Lite. This campus turned the tide for the 'tastes great' movement throughout the nation!\ .How to Make Your Mark So the anger rages on m the hotbed of political activism, Union College. Questions such as whether this issue can ever be resolved are dark clouds lurking over the future of Union and academics as a whole. One thing; however, is certain; Union remains the cutting edge of student concerns and global problems. As President Morris relates, \These kids have made me switch to Pepsi. I just wish they would relax and be a little apathetic about things sometimes. Like our stock portfolio ... \ By MARGARET BOITANO .t\ssociate Features Editor As graduation swiftly ap- proaches and the seniors become increasingly anxious to receive their diplomas and reflective of past experiences at Uriion, the time has come to contemplate the various possibilities of leaving one's \mark\ at Union. The grafitti scattered all over numerous fixtures in .the Skeller no longer possesses that unique quality of permanance as it formerly did Faculty Race Yesterday Union College's faculty and - Staff fielded its largest team ever to participate in the Manufacturers Hanover Challenge Race held around the Empire Plaza in Albany. The race is 3.5 miles and pits teams from about 175 businesses, institutions and other organizations against each other in three· possible categories, women's teams, men's teams, and coed teams. This year about 1600 runners competed. The actual position of finish for Union's teams is not known but based on past experience, depending upon how the teams are made up, Union could have finished in the top five in either the women's or coed teams. Because a runner can only be on one of these teams, this year it was decided to make a stronger women's team. The men's team lacked one runner from being a complete team so it will have to wait for next year to place. Professors Janet Anderson from the Chemistry Depart- ment and Ted Bick from tne strong Mathematics Depart- ment were the top female and male finishers for Union. Completing the women's team were Professors Sue Niefield and Dottie Sherling from Mathematics. And completing the coed team were Professors Bill Fairchild from Math and Cindy Ross from the Computer Center and Professor Barbara Boyer from Biology. The in- complete men's team was made up of Professor Dave Hayes from Chemistry, Karl Zim- merman rounding out the Mathematics representatives, Lou Tremante from the Com- puter Center, and Professor George Smith from Biology. Cross Country 1985 Team Meeting Wednesday, Junes, 1985 Humanities Base·ment ·· 4:30p.m. due to the ever changing con- struction plans currently being undertaken. In fact, one cannot depend on anythmg nowadays. So what options are available for a student caught up in these trying circumstances1 One more productive alternative concerns the possibility of becoming a trustee as a student or an alumnus of Union. If the invitation is extended, one has the valuable opportunity to contribute in a constructive manner to an institution that has provided endless op- portunities for its members. Such an endeavor has the potential of becoming ·a vastly rewarding experience as well as an effective means of keeping in touch with all current un- dertakings at Union. The trustees are a diverse group that discuss and formulate policies that effect almost every aspect possible concerning Union College. Dr. Lee L. Davenport, a member of the class of 1937, has served on the Board of Trustees since 1968 when Harold Martin was then President. He feels that in order to be an effective trustee there are certain criteria that every trustee ought to fulfill. These requirements include not only those outlined in various publications by academic societies concerning credentials, but also a sincere concern and dedication to the college involving contributions of a financial nature as well as a unique guidance and un- derstanding often related to one's past experiences and employments. As a former member of the faculty of the Harvard Physics Department and a retired Executive Vice- President of G. T.E., Dr. Davenport has a good background for an effective trustee and this is reflected in the length of his term of service at Unian College. The Board of Trustees meets three times a year at Union and once in New York City to elect new members. The elected term of office lasts lour years and one cannot serve two terms consecutively. A required meeting in June is held to review. candidates with degrees to make a decision as to who will receive diplomas. This specific meetmg presents a chance for every student to finish all requirements necessary for graduation. Within the Board of Trustees there is a monthly meeting of the Executive Board (Dr. Davenport currently holds one of the four offices here) and the Chairmen of each of the seven sub-committees. In his career as trustee, Dr. Davenport recalls one of the major issues of the '70's: the admission of women at Union. He advocated such a revolutionary change and the first class was admitted in 1974. Currently the big issue of today concerns the extension of Carnegie and the construction of a new Alumni Gym. The Board has been reviewing these plans for two years now and just one glance around campus is testimony to their quality and caliber of both students and faculty mcrease thus making Union College more equipped to meet the reqirements of a competent college. With such high standards, students should receive a nDore broad background qualifying them for many potential opportunities including that of serving as a trustee at Union and con- tributing to the general welfare of the college. So if you are a concerned senior or student interested in leaving your mark at Union perhaps the office of trustee would be a reasonable and productive consideration? Woodstock Is Here!!!

'. '·' \1 PageS Fo~J at (Inion CollqJe 1877 ----------- ---~-- A Farewell Message As the end of the school year will soon be upon us, it seems a good time to reflect on what this year has brought. There have been many lectures and new learning experiences, parties and times to relax, picnics, movies, concerts,. colloquiums . . . and, of course, lots of issues of Concordy. But in looking back, one should really think about what the year has meant for him/her personally. What has this year brought for you? Do you feel like an integral part of your school? Were you actively involved in what was going on? The fact that Union is a small school means that students can really get involved in campus life and make important decisions that can seriously affect their education. It seems an odd time to drone on about apathy, and, indeed,· that is not the point of this writing. Becomin$ involved in student life has been quite interesting and exciting for this editor. It's presented as something to think about. No one can force you to become involved in extracurricular activities; it's something you have to want to do. As you're packing away your pillowcases and Eco books, ask yourself how successful this year was for you. If you think that maybe something was missing, you should try pursuing an interest in a club or ac- tivity next year. It can add a lot to your experience here at Union. In the meantime, enjoy the summer. See you next year. To The Grads Well, Concordiensis must bid a special farewell to the Class of 1985. CONGRATULATIONS TO YOU ALL! Now is a time filled with ambiguity for most graduating seniors! It's time to enter the \real world'\ where the motto is \Sink or Swim.\ You will now be forced to survive on your own. Now comes the time in life we've all been looking forward to (well, some of us have been cleverly avoiding it) called ADULTHOOD. But, what an exciting time it is! Many Union graduates are going on to medical, law, business or other graduate schools. Best of luck to those of you who fit into this category. It certainly will be great to see how many famous Union grads there are in ten or twenty years! On the other side of things, maybe you're entering fresh into the business world. Or maybe you're still waiting to hear from that \guy\ in New York or Boston. In either case, good luck to all of you who fit into these categories. It really is an eventful time, but it also may seem a bit scary to somegraduatingseniors. It's a time to say good-bye to good friends and good times. It's time to give up some bad habits and maybe adopt some more good ones. There are no classes in the working world and there's no sleeping through classes in graduate school. As you well know, many changes are going to occur in the lives of every Union graduate in the months to come. Changes, changes, changes: the anticipation might be a bit scary but the outcome is usually great. So, for your remaining time at Union-live it up-or just live it the way you want to-because after June 16, your \college days\ will be over for good. Also, remember you can keep in touch with your Alma Mater by subscribing to Concordy (sorry, the temptation was too great)! But, more importantly, take a deep breath and get ready for what awaits you out there. And when you get there, whether you \sink\ or you \swim remember to eat your veggies and to call mom once a week! Letters to ·the editor and not reflect the commentaries do. necessarily opinions of the ectitorial .board of Concordiensis. CONCORDIENSIS, May 30, 1985 LETTERS Student Gives Congratulations To the Editor, I would like to congratulate . Richard Allen, Gardner Bolster, and Aaron Carrel on their recent election to the Student Forwn to represent the Class of 1988. There is no doubt that they will represent our class to their greatest ability. I would also like to thank all of my supporters for coming out to vote for me in the general election and in last Friday's run-off. Without your con- fidence I :never could have made it this far. Now with the election behind us I look .for- ward to a pro!:lperous new school year and playi.Qg. an active role on campus. David Cohen '88 Good-bye to Professor. Schneller To the Editor, This is written to acknowledge the loss that is represented by Professor Schneller's decision to leave the Union community. Gene's new job at Arizona State is an ex- cellent opportunity for him and we are very happy for him and his family. AlthOugh we wish him th~st, his leaving is a sad occasion for many of us who knew him well. - Gene Schneller enriched the community with his professionalism, his energy, his capacity for innovation, his integrity, and his good will. It is unlikely that anyone on campus has been m()re open, more tolerant, and less given to recrimination than Gene. He is a man of rare good humor and a man who lifted the spirits of all who knew him. We .shall miss both him and his wife Ellen and all that they brought to our community. Sincerely, James E. Underwood Terry S, Weiner Paul Tidmatch Steven M. Berk P.S. Our apologies to all those Who were not given the op- portunity to sign this letter. We plead the press of time in this long spring term. ' · Early Fall Term Whale Watch '85 PROVINCETOWN Plan On ltl THE BIOLOGY CLUB CHUC Teaching Assistant ·Positions Are Available for Next Year For More Information Call the Office of Classics & Philoso h x6231 The New York City Alumni Club~~~:fs~~~!eniors who will be living in New York City after graduation to attend a \Night at the Ballpark: Yankees vs. ·Orioles\ on Wednesday, June 26. Tickets are $10.00 each and must be reserved by May 30. For more details, call the Alumni Office at 6168. 11 D~ys till Exams!!! This is the last issue of Con- cordiensis for this school year. The first issue for the 1985-86 school year will be Thursday, September 19. All letters to the editor and commentaries will be due on Tuesday, Sep- tember 17. The entire staff of Concordiensis wishes everyone in the Union Communrty a great summer! \

have with the I look .for- new playing an pus. Cohen '88 to out Sincerely, Tidmar(!h M.Berk all those ~n the op- letter. We in this in New vs. • l CONCORDIENSIS, May 30, 1985 Assemblyman Jim Tedisco on Missing Children Day On Friday, the eve of \:Misstng Children;s Day\ Assemblyman James N. Tedisco, chairman of the Assembly Republican Task Force on Missing Children, urged the state Consumer Protection Board to investigage qUestionable ''quick fix\ products and services being offered to parents and families. Tedisco sent a letter this week to· Richard Kessel, executive director .of the Consumer Protection Board; warning him of evidence uncovered by the 16- member task force which in- dicates that \scare statistics and advertising\ are being sent to parents. • · Tedisco said pareats are being told to protect their children through such methods as ''do-it-yourself'' fingerprint- identification kits, irisurance policies against abduction, \donations\ to so-called missing children \relief and legal\ funds, and sening money to help local police. \The groundswell of support and positive action involving the fight against missing and abducted children apparently is providing a fertile field for those who, no matter how critical or worthy the cause, will take advantage of the moment for financial gain,\ Tedisco wrote. ''I am referring to firms and individuals who are offering for sale to families various 'plans' and products which wj}l_ supposedly .protect their children .from the dangers of abduction. Tedisco cited as examples home kits for fingerprinting; a plan which asks for con- tributions to cover the cost of mailing a children's survey; requests for financial help with a so-called \Missing Relief and Legal Fund\; and a \Police Fund for Missing Children,'' the sources of which are not documented or verified in their literature, according to Tedisco. He noted that it is questionable whether the methods and materials used for home fingerprinting confonn with those used by law en- forcement agencies for iden- tification purposes. \One such organization offers what amounts to an insurance plan against child abduction along with an ID Kit .containing various records of children,\ Tedisco told Kessel. \For these services, families are asked to 'subscribe' with payments of up to $100 or rnore, depending upon the number of children in the family.\ Tedisco cited \scare statistics,\ which he said are totally inaccurate, such as: \Did you know experts estimate· a child in the U.S. is stolen by a stranger EVERY SIXTY SECONDS?\ He . also aoted that fliers seeking vendors for these products and .services say: \3 millioa children are born every year. Get your share of the market NOW!\ In urging the consumer protecting board probe, Tedisco said these offerings, which are mounting daily, ''could endanger many ofthe programs now underway involving missing children and could perpetuate a hoax on an un- suspecting and concerned public.\ The Missing Children Task Force chairman noted \the outstanding efforts\ of the news media and many legitimate private sector businesses in spreading the word about the dangers and problems of missing children. \On the eve of \Missing . Children' sDay,\ when our state and nation will once again focus their attention on ways to combat this problem,\ Tedisco's letter concluded, \we would hope that parents will turn to legitimate, verified public and private organizations for help and be wary of offers of a quick fix for a price.\ CAMP UNION H.AS ARRIVED! C()lleQe Press 5erV>Ce Page9 ;; FEATURES SEX!!!!! Speakers Forum and The Pre-Health Society.present: Dr. William H. Masters 11 The Myths and Mysteries of Human Sexuality\ ***Founder, MASTERS AND JOHNSON INSTITUTE ***Author, Human Sexuality, The Pleasure Bond, Human Sexual Responses, etc. TONIGHT!!!! TONIGHT!!!! TONIGHT!!!! ONLY $1 ONLY $1 Memorial ChapelS PM Sign up for reception in Mrs. Marra's Office! Missing Destiny Continued from page 6 \Scared ya, huh?\ was his gutteral utterance. ''Uh ... yeah.\ I hopped on .the train as soon as it opened its doors, wanting desperatly to leave this guy behind. For once, Luck intervened and granted me my wish. Destiny soon took control again~buti'll spare you the gory details of some of the things I saw on my train ride. Suffice it to say that Amtrak is about as safe as Harlem on a riot night. Schenectady never looked so comforting as it did that night when I stepped off the train at 1:00 in the morning. There was no cab in sight, only a group of derelicts who, I found out, were also waiting for a cab, having hailed one only 15 minutes a~o. The cab arrived and all five derelicts, plus me, poked into the cab. Two of them got dropped off on Brandywine and the other three got out at Wonder Burger. I was charged for all that mileage plus my own. I was not pleased. But I was back at school and that was good enough for me. Back at the room,. I found all my belongings scattered all over the room. My suspicions are unprintable due to the establishment's fears, but the fur flew that night: Eventually, though, things ,got ironed out and all was well. Sorry, we don't need Features Writers anymore this year. We .may give you, ' JUNIOR PUB NIGHT IS TONIGHT So the next time you decide to get away for a weekend, take my advice: Don't rent a car. Don't drive past sunset. Don't trust a hotel to keep your reservations. Don't let your brother play fetch with your puppy. Don't forget to have your cat \fixed.\ Don't talk to strangers in train stations. The sanity you save may be your own. · a second chance next year! II ··-· ··1._·~--~----..-...--~----.-d ... ~ ,. -~ ~ . Food, Music Dancing Tunes spun by DJ Marty Glaze Be There! 9:30 p.m. Spring Fever!!





' r, •, ,. .. •... \. ·\· ' ·. . ' 'I 'f ' ' ·; ~· ' ,, ~ • I :.'· ,·:. . n \'' ' . I -: /. ·. l . . . ' : ' ,' ,. ; ! · Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, M4Y 30r 1985 Union College I.D. Absolu,tely Required to be Served Beer ·*Camp Union All-Campus* *Bar-B-Que* DATE: June 1,1985 TIME: ,Noon-6:30p.m. PLACE: West Beach PRICE: One· Meal Card Punch OR $1 w/Unlon College ID Guests--$2.00 TICKm: Available at West on Thursday, May 30 during dinner (5:00·6:00· p.m.) on Friday, May 31 during lunch (·11 :30p.m.·1 :00 p.m.), and in front of Carnegie on both Thursday &·Friday. FOOD: All you can eat: Chicken, · Hamburgers, Hotdogs, Potato, Macaroni ~ Tossed Salad, Watermelon, Ice Cream,. Ice Tea, ,Lemonade, and Beer. **Please Note--The success of this .Bar-b-que is contingent upon your cooperation. Please get your tickets 1 And if you're not on . the meal plan and/or you hav·e friends who will be visiting--pay the dollar or two dollars we're asking--we doubt you'll find a better dea.l! Thanks for your cooperation and we'll see you on June 1st'! - The Camp Union Committee .. . :

\' • CONCOBJ)IENSIS; May 31, 1985 *Friday, May 31 Movies on Library Plaza 8 p.m.--~~Monster Go Home\ 10·p.m.--' 1 Animal House'/ 12 p.m.--\ American Werewolf in London'' . *Saturday, June 1 12 p.m.-~Bar-b-que 1 p.m.--One People, Reggae Band Page 13 3 p.m.--\Otis Day and the Nights\ .(The band from Animal House) II· pr.tL - y ()U re.. HANP IS orJ Fl~i- ~ -r !{) ~ s p.m.-- James Brown 7 p.m. --Clean-up Everyone ' PEiS -YOV '(l..E.. A DFU.Jb- rNotJc.t.V I IDIOT. T Beer Brewed by The M•ller Brew1ng Company M•lwaukee W•sconS•fl WELCOME TO MILLER TIME

! ; i :i' i ' .. . r j . \ i Pagel4 CONCORDIENSJS, May 30, 1985 THE ARTS Richard Pare, Artist-in-Residenceat Union, shows his work to a group of students last week on campus. Photographer Pare Visits By LINDA RAFFAELE Editor-in-Chief historical societies all over ihe country announcing the project. His efforts resulted in a 1978 book of 8,000 images of county courthouses photographed by 24 different photographers. \unusual to buy a photograph for $1,000.\ Recently, he paid $100,000 for one image. He says that $15,000 is about the stan- dard price to pay for one print. Pare concluded his presen~ Continued on page 15 Union Brass By JANICE THOMPSON Staff We have heard Net Weight. We have danced to the Stom~ pers. This afternoon, you will find no sounds of the Grateful Dead or the Beach Boys on campus, but on Library Plaza, you can listen to quality music of a different kind. The \Union Brass\ this college's very own brass quintet, Will perform at 3:15 p.m. The group, consisting of Tom Christopher and Mark Richard on trumpet, David Civale on french horn, and Janice Thompson and Tony Holston on trombone, has been rehearsing and performing together for two semesters now. The five members form the quintet with the help and direction of Prof. Hilary Tann and Union's chamber music practicum program. Playing in a small gro\lp such as a brass quintet requires different skills than an or- chestra or band does. In a performance, chamber players must learn to listen to each .part and adjust his tone and tempo to the group without the aid of a director. This usually occurs when the members have played together for a long time and can expect what each other will do. The Union Brass have reached this point, and are anticipating a fl.lie performance today. They will be performing Victor Ewald's Symphony for Brass Choir, Giovanni Battista Vitali's Capriccio, and Joannes Esquivei's Veni Domine. The concert will be just in time for those getting out of their Thursday afternoon classes to come out and enjoy some great classical music. This will be the last perlorinance of the Union Brass, since Mark Richard will - be graduating in June. He has added a lot to the group, and the others will miss him as they · carry on the Union Brass tradition next year. Another chamber group, a woodwind quintet, comprised of Joanne Berger on flute, Martha Phipps on oboe, Eric Scardina on french horn, Jackie Chyu on bassoon and Cathy Markes on clarinet, will perform in the same place next Wednesday, June 5, at 1:30 p.m. They will be playing Handel's Three Little Fugue.s, J ean-Phillippe Rameau's Gavotte with Six Doubles, and Franz Danzi's Woodwind Quintet, Op. 68, No. 2. This concert is also highly recommended. What better way to take a break from the tension of the tenth week of classes? Come out and support Union's classical musicians for these two outdoor concerts. They are guaranteed to be enjoyable experiences for a summer afternoon. Photographer Richard Pare, curator of the Seagrams Collection in New York City, was a recent guest af the Union Arts Department. During his visit, he critiqued the work of students in Photo I and Photo III and addressed the campus in a lecture last Wednesday at 4:30 in the Arts Building. Pare noted that by this time he was \evaluating how one looked at and thought about photographs ... I was not taking many pictures my.self.\ He did travel part of the year. to photograph, however. He went to Paris twice a year to take pictures. He also went to Cairo, Egypt, where his wife was employed as a philosophy professor at the American University. ====''Dead Wednesdays''·==== Professor of Photography Martin Benjamin introduced Pare to the audience, which included many current photography students, saying that he had been \making pictures for 21 years.\ Pare then took over to describe his fascinating career. Pare was born in 1948 in England. He grew up in Win- chester, and there he sang with a choir for 5% years. It was his involvement with the choir which, he says, \provided me with an aesthetic framework for the rest of my life.\ He later went to art school and studied graphic design. He soon found photography to be his real interest, however. He says, I used to go up to London and walk about the street and take pictures.\ He later went to art school and studied graphic design. He soon found photography to be his real interest, however. He says, \I used to go up to London and walk about the street and take pictures.\ Richard Lynne, one of }lis teachers in art school ,en- couraged him in his photography and suggested that he come to America. By the time he was 21, he had saved up enough money to come over to the States. He recalled those days, saying, ':,.I bought one of those Greyhound bus tickets that cost $99 for the first month and $33 for every month thereafter.\ With that ticket, he traveled all around the U.S. He went from New York to Chicago and then out to Claifornia. He describes that time as one when \I was being handed from one person to another.\ Finally, in 1972, while teaching at Columbia College in Chicago, he was introduced to a woman named Phyllis Lam- bert. She asked if he would like to put together a book of photographs on county cour- thouses for the Bicentennial. He agreed to the project, . and in 1974 he sent out letters to An exhibit of the pictures that he made in Cairo is currently being displayed in the Arts Building (and will be there until May 31). Pare desribed to his audience some of the difficulties he had in photographing in Egypt. He said, \I had to come to terms with a completely alien culture.\ He started to travel around the city, but he had problems with that because taxi drivers would not take him where he wanted to go. He ended up bringing his car there and driving along the coast of the Nile ·and through the deserts. By the end of the year, he had shot 400.500 images, 75 of which he likes enough to exhibit. Reflecting on the ex- perience he said, \The business of photography came out of what I knew about the country already.\ Currently, Pare spends about four months of the year photographing. The rest of the year he is an active curator for two photography collections in New York City. The first is the Seagram Collection, a colle~ tion of about 800 prints dealing with \The American City After 1900\. This exhibit includes thw work of photographers such as Arnold Genthe, Walter Evans, Lee Friedlander, and Gary Winogrand. The second collection for which Pare is the curator is connected with the Canadian Center for Architecture. This collection contains over 300,000 prints put together over the past 10 years. This is more than twice the number of prints that the Museum of Modern Art has and, as Pare pointed out, \they've been at it since 1937.\ Pare said that sometimes it takes months to negotiate the final details on the price of a print. He remembers that when he first started out it was By C. CHANDAR Staff Living on the eve of the day before tomorrow wondering when and where if at all it will come together finding just a trace of an anchorage in the face of the perpetual storm seeing ever less deeply into the person who could have been a friend of mine a long time ago it is not so easy finding out ever more fully that none of us can ever be as close as we want to not being part of the same being slash organic matrix the mountains rising over the mists of the plains can get no closer than they are when their bases actually touch but even that kind of interaction is lost in the mist below even the foothills major catastrophe here everything only seeming to be for everyone no two sharing identical knowledge of what they really think lies out tqere yeah again recurring and colliding thoughts pursure the train on which I try to avoid them often they sabotage the bridges and leave me with no choice but to head for the nearest mountain where finding me they will once again take me above the timberline and thus keep me from the foothills the hollow boom echoes around the empty ruom in which I sit on a chair and try to pierce the boundary that keeps perception from ever meeting reality or reality meeting perception upon which will either change open close open the pattern of the door following the beat of the hollow booming thud seeing into the empty space outside the room I realize that it is an empty space just as I had thought it was and being able to actually perceive this has changed only the degree of certainty with which I hold that conviction having someone I have tried to know for a number of years now tell me that there is something which keeps me from expressing myself freely wonder what it is I sure haven't noticed it yet but then I wouldn't be able to seeing it from only the inside yeah need to be on the outside to see that one one the concept that expresses many things worded inside a very dense expression it means that there is existence it implied the absence of duality it tells you who you are and how many of you there are the list is in- finitely long why seeing it all from here I can only conclude that the further I stretch the limits of the room the fact still remains that there will be a door in the wall somewhere and it will be a part of the wall and not a separate thing unto itself of course someone else's per- ceptions even if truthfully relayed are only someone else's perceptions and should not be taken as any more than such looking back over it all and seeing the patterns within that space of time I can see the ones that are relevant to it but am unable to perceive l;he ones that lie beyond now as they are unextropolatable and fit no known pattern thud the hollowness of boredom clamors on my door and almost scrat- ches it to the breaking point but for some reason it holds and keeps back the onrushing tide that destroys a11 in its path and then when it does it is as if everything is new again only a fragment of what was stays around to make sure that nothing repeats and that fragment gets embedded in the new and becomes an integral part of it making sure that nothing repeats ever yes a grain of salt stuck on my tongue not tasting it for what it is I work it out and spit into the waste- basketnever looking back to see what it was or swallowing it whole and never tasting it that is true eating. What Can/Do Wit~ a Major in Biology Come Find Out Tues., June 4 4:30p.m. • Room 5301 Science Building We'll discuss graduate school, professional schools (other than Medicine)- & other career options FREE PIZZA AND REFRESHMENTS!

today. erforming lphony for 10i Battista 11d Joannes mine. The in time for of their classes to some great 1 will be the 'the Union tichard will - 111e. He has mp, and the lm as they ion Brass · group, a llmprised of ute, Martha ic Scardina ltie Chyu on Markes on )rm in the Wednesday, They will be :'hree Little Phillippe ~ with Six tnz Danzi's Op. 68, No. also highly lt better way 1 the tension of classes? >ort Union's s for these ts. They are l enjoyable a summer ;o it but am ones that they are fit no thud the clamors scrat- point but holds and tide its path and it is as if only a was stays sure that and that in the an integral sure that yes a grain tongue not is I work it the waste- back to see it it that 0 <]) c \- 10 :l (!) .~ \- 10 ~ >- .0 <l> :'!::: - :.:: Ill CONCORDIENSIS, May 30, 1985 PagelS WRlJC 89.7 fM \STEREO • . Here it i~: The WRUC TOP 8.97! These albwnsreceived the most • a1rplay this past week on the only station that matters-WRUC. • Note ~hat. the New Order album (their first domestic release) is · debutmg m the number one position. It's destined to be one of the · year's most acclaimed albums. And you heard it first on 89.7 FM. Kee,p those requests coming at 37043151. This . Last- Week Artist, Album Label Week 1. New Order, Low Life Quest 2. Cucumbers, (Who Betrays Me Fake Doom 4 and Other Happier Songs · 3. China Crisis, Flaunt the Imperfection 4. Tear's For Fears,Songs from the Big Chair WB Polygram 1 5: 5. Smiths, Meat is Murdef Sire 3 6. Joan Armatrading, Secret Secrets A&M 8.97 7. Everything But the Girl, Love Not Money Sire - THE ARTS . . - 8. Velvet Underground, VU Verve 2 · 8,97 The Three O'Clock, Arrive Without Traveling IRS 7 · Melinda Phillips and Paul Seline starred in Summerfree last week in the Nott Theater. -Compiled by Evan Schwartz WRUC Music Director Thanx for reading and tacking The WRUC TOP 8.97 to your · refrigerator every week this past term .... Remember that there is a general meeting for all members of WRUC this coming Tuesday, June4. Summertree In Bloom • • • Pare At Union Continued from page 14 tation with a showing of some slides from his collections. Included in the slide show were many photographs of ar- chitecture, a subject in which Pare is particularly interested. In speaking to this term's Photo I class on Thursday, he com- mented that \sooner or later you have to deal with ar~ chitecture.\ He reconunends that students interested in photography, \look at a lot of photography books.\ This will give them a good idea of what other photographers are doing. He also says that \you have to think for every frame you ex- pose.\ You cannot just go out and take pictures and hope that you'll get lucky with a good shot. You have to plan. One student in the class,noticing that Pare makes all of his pictures in'~olor, asked why, seeing as many professional photographers prefer black-and-white, He answered that he started out that way because he thought he could just send his pictures to the lab to have them developed. When he found out that he really did not like the way other people developed them, it \became a challenge\ for him to continue to make them on his own. He says, \You have to think about color harmony, color theory ... I got interested in how you can articulate images in color.\ Pare's visit to Union was a real treat, expecially for students interested in photography. A charming man, he was very receptive to students who approached him to ask how they could improve their photographs. It is hoped that the Arts Department will continue to host guests like Pare on campus in the future. Many thanks to all who .made his visit possible. By MICKEY BRADLEY Arts Editor \If I don't do what I think is right, I'll wind up someplace I mever wanted to go, doing something I don't want to be doing.\ So predicts the character identified only as the \Young Man\ in Ron Cowen's play Summertree., which was performed last week in the Nott Theater. What he./ \thinks is right\ is to enroll in music school and become a professional pianist, but what he winds up doing is dropping out of college (his parents will · pay only for a vocational, not an art school) and joining the Army to please his father. Rambo, he ain't. Once in the Army, he is sent to Vietnam, where he looses his longtime girlfriend from home, his youthful idealism and dreams, and eventually, his life. While that may sound like a pretty predictable plot, Summertree is far from a cliched account of· a sensitive adolescent's struggle with the pressures of family and society. It's more about the affect his search for himself has Marie Guariniello, technical secretary in the chemistry department, will be exhibiting some of her photographs in the Arts Building through June 4. Her exhibit is still I ifes of ice forms and were made as an independent study project with Assistant Professor Martin Benjamin during winter term. The exhibit is on the second floor of the Arts Building and will be up thru June 6. On Wednesday, June 5 at 5:30p.m. in Arts Building Room 215, the Arts Dept. will present a unique senior ~thesis: Mitchell Friedman's \When I Was Your Age.\ The 25-·minute work combines pre-recorded songs with a live slide show. The songs, which offer a humorous and nostalgic look at the present, were composed and pe~ormed in their entirety by Mitchell. The slide show consists of original black and white photographs from the past three years as well as more. r-ecent color photographs and drawings. The public is cordially invited to aHend. on those close to him, and how they respond to it. What really makes the play special is the intensity .of its drama, the perspectives from which the . action is shown (a series of out- of-sequence flashbacks), and the triumphant performances of its cast. Quite simply, all six per~ formers in Summertree were spectacular. Paul Seline, as the play's complex central character, was impeccable in his portrayal of a confused, misunderstood Young Man who wants to be his own person, but· still needs the support of his parents. Melinda Phillips, as his overprotective Mother, gave what is perhaps the best student performance I have ever seen- so complete was her un- derstanding of the character and her motivations. Shauna Bavar, as his compassionate Girlfriend, Mitchell Bernstein, as his negligent, practical Father, and Joel Rosenfield, as the Soldier who befriends him, all excel in their roles, keeping the dialogue convincing and the action quick and credible. And young Matthew Steckler, son of Professor Charles Steckler (who did a nice job with the set ,design) is terrific as the Little) Boy, who is actually the Young Man as a child. Summertree utilizes a very unorthodox time sequence. There are scene() with the Young Man talking to his girlfriend, fighting in the war,. at college as a junior, then as a freshman, building a treehouse as a child, etc. and all are mixed together in no chronological order. Though that may sound like a distraction, I found it a very refreshing and intriguing way of presenting the story. It was never hard to follow (though I adnlit I was slow to realize that the Little Boy is actually the Young Man at an earlier age-especially since the two converse regularly), and the rearrangement of scenes gave new meaning to the play's purpose; which was not to merely recount the experiences of the Young Man and show us how he died, but rather to ex- pose the -pressures and im- positions that society forces upon its members, and which we allow ourselves to fall under. The author's main point is not what happens to Seline's character, but how and why it happens, and how it affects the other characters. My only real complaint with Summertree was that some of the dialogue is a bit too straightforward and heavy- handed. Rather than have the audience infer meanings through the characters and their actions, Cowen sometimes lets them lecture to the audience. For example, the Father, at one point, while trying to convince his son to stay in college, explains, \People get tied down. You don't want to be, but you do. You're a victim of what you are ... no mater who you are, you have obligations.\ True enough, but do people really talk to each othel\ like this? Passages like that one popped up several times during the play, and for me they interrupted the drama, by sounding more like, com- mentaries than conversation. That was only a minor irritation, though, in a play that was otherwise flawless and extremely well-produced. Unfortunately, Summertree finished its run last week, so if you missed it, you missed it. It's not too late to catch one more campus play, though-check out Diane Sadak's one-woman, 36- character show this w,eek in \I Am a Woman\ which runs May 28, 30, 31 and June 1. Admission is free, showtime is at 8:00 and if it's as good as Summertree was, you'll want to be there. June is National Ragweed Control Month PURPOSE: Destroy Weed, Protect Health \Get Ragweed Before It Gets You'' Sponsored by the Air Pollution Control League <]) c 0 10 \0 '0 10 ~ Q; 10 .!::. u ~ >- .0 0 0 .!::. Q.

'i 'i ·.I Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, May 30; 1985 THE ARTS ~ <II .0 :I ... 0 <II > Ill 0 >- .0 0 +- 0 .s:: a. ' . One Woman Play Viveca Lindfors' \I Am A Woman\ will. be presented at Union College May 28, 30; 31 and June at 8p.m. each night in the. Nott Memorial. The orie-woman play stars senior Diana Sadak in 36 different roles, and Will be directed' by Barry Smith, associate professor of the arts. Jeffrey Presslaf.f will ac- company with jazz im- provisational piano. . Tickets are free, and may be reserved bY calling the Nott Memorial Box Office, 37()..6153. sensitivities of the per- sonalities,\ Sadak is quick to add that \it is not a heavy show. It has a very uplifting ending.\ The show also .features mixed media: in addition to acting, Sadak will be singing and playing the flute. Sadak's own personality opens the show, providing her an opportunity to explain and introduce the play \and tell why I'm there,\ sbe said. \I Am.A Woman\ represents for Sadak the culmination of an active career at Union, which includes appearances and leading roles in Company, Rebel, Our Town, Not Like Brian Laux and Ken M.orrperformed original folk songs at Cabaret, and gave the audience a great show. The collage of personalities in the play depict the human-not just the feminine--condition, Sadak said. \The show is more· universal than its title would suggest,\ she said, adding that she and Smith have removed some of the militant feminist language . found in the play's original 1970's. script. Lindors, a Scandanaviari film star, was both the writer of the play and its performer for various ''informances-informal per- formances including a dialogue with the audience--across the country. . Dreams Do, The Stronger, Hamlet, One . Flew OVer the CUckoo's Nest, and as director of Jacques Brei. She also has assisted Smith with courses in improvisation and with set design. ''And now here I am,\ she said, adding that the show presents her greatest challenge and, she hopes,. her greatest success. \When I first read the play, it really affected me. I also saw what a challenge .it would be, theatrically, musically, and emotionally.\ Music Headlines Cabaret By DEBBIE ALBERT Arts Editor Cabaret this week was headlined with two very talented and enjoyable acts. However, due to certain cir- cumstances the crowds were not packing the Cabaret room. Regardless, the people that were present at each show were enthusiastic about the acts. My only complaint would be .that the people who are performing deserve a certain amount of respect, which means that it would be appreciated if people would try to minimize the noise level and not leave the show during the perfonnance, unless it is a dire emergency. Nonetheless, for people who attended Cabaret this week, they were given a taste of young talented singers and musicians. Wendy Baer sang some hits from the 1920's and some show tunes. Dressed in a black tafetta dress with rhinestone jewelry, she looked like a singer for times of the 1920's. Her piano accompanist was · Dave Dworkin who played very well. Wendy sang such songs as the ''Viper Rag, .. \Your Feets Too Big, .. and \Nice and Easy.\ From the hit musical Ain't Misbehavin' she sang the title song and one of her best songs of the evening, \Turn Back 0 Man\ from Godspell. Wendy's stage presence was not boring to watch, rather she made the audience part of her songs by coming into the crowd and eyeing down the men. In each show Wendy per- formed an enjoyable act, and Cabaret hopes to see her back on the stage. Also, bopefully people w:m keep their voices down during an act's per- formance. The second headlined act was Brian Laux and Ken Morr, a friend from Long Island. Ken Morr plays the guitar- beautifully and the two sang their original songs. Brian and Ken have been writing lyrics together and Ken has been writing music for a couple of years now. For all their time and practice they sounded like a Sylvester Staflone portrays Rambo, a Vietnam veteran who returns to that country to seek out P.O.W.'s still held captive in RAMBO: FIRST BLOOD PART II, a Tri-Star release. RAMBO, rated R, is now playing at Cine 1·8, Northway Mall; Cinema 12, Crossgates Mall; and UA Plaza 1 & 2, Rotterdam Mall. great duet. They sang all original songs except for ''59th Street Bridge\ by Simon and Garfunkel and \Cats in the Cradle'f. by Harry Cha_pin. These songs get the audience involved by singing and clap- ping. The original songs are folk songs and the lyrics tell some fun and loving stories, as well as sad. One song which brought tpgether great lyrics, singing and guitar playing was \Son of Revolution,\ about a man leaving China during the Cultural Revolution. Another enjoyable original was \Life by the River,\ which is about a woman who spends her time feeding ducks at the river's edge, while thinking about her daughter that has gone away. All in all these two musicians should keep up the good work and although Brian is graduating, Cabaret looks to see Ken and Brian again. Finally, the audience would like to thank the two acts for their enjoyable performances and Cabaret hopes to see packed houses in the future. Good talent is something we should not pass up. Meeting for All Graduating Seniors in the Skellar June 12-16 Bring a pillow and a sleeping bag The performance requires Sadak to protray women and men, young and old, of carious nationalities. Smith stresses these are not impersonations, but are more of an im- pressionistic collection of personalities and perspectives, \exploring the sturggles of the human spirit to realize itself,\ he said. \Diane brings out the A native of Clifton Park, Sadak plans to work on Wall Street this summer, and then pursue a master's degree in business administration. \And there will definitely be more acting, somewhere down the line,\ she said. ''l'll never stop performing.\ · Junior Pub Night.· Thursday May30 Dancing at the Pub .Refreshments and Food will be Available FUN! FUN! FUN! A a I: Nick Moran on guitar and vocals ACT II: EVAN SCHWARTZ with Gale -Blumenfeld and Paul ·Rubin Master of Ceremonies: Dave Tolge Thursday, May 30, 1985 Shows as 9:00 and 11 :00 p.m. -BE THERE, ALOHAU!

lay the per- s quick to eavyshow. rg en <ling.\ Lll'es mixed to acting, 1ging and tdak's own the show, IOrtWlity to !e the play :here,\ sue represents tation of an ton, which nces and Company, Not Uke Stronger, OVer the as director 1e also has courses in l with set .ere I am,\ tt the Show ;t challenge ~r greatest ~st read the cted me. I ~hallenge .it eatrically, llotionally.\ fton Park, rk on Wall ~. and then degree in :ttion. \And y be more down the l never stop . I CONCORDJENSIS, May 30, 198$ Page 17 CLUB NEWS :Newman Appreciation Pic- ~c-Monday, June3rd at 5 p.m. m Jackson Gardents. In case of rain the picnicW:iU be held in the Banquet Room of Carnegie. The UNION COLLEGE CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP will hold its elections at this Sunda:y's meeting, 4;30 p.m., in Strauss Lounge, Carnegie. SUPPORT ETHIOPIA T- SHIRTDRIVE Catholic Relief Services has joined forces with MTV, the music television network, to provide T-shirts for children in Ethiopia. Members of the Union community may place T-shirts in a box in Mrs. Marra's Office (Carnegie-1st floor) until J.une loth. The Newman Club will deliver them to the Office of The Evangelist who in turn wi:ll ship them to CRS warehouses in New Jersey. Volunteers from schools in Metuchen, N.J. will sort the T~shirts. campus). It is in excellent condition, and very reasonably priced. If you are interested, call 372-7838 or 37o-6484. Typing.: $1.50 per page. Fast, neat, and acc!lrate. Cal1374-l720 after 1:30. Newman Folk Group- Sunday evenings at 6:30 p.m. Allsingers and musicians meet · ~~--------.,. at St. John's to prepare for the CLA.SSIHE. 'DS 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. New Luxurious, 7•bedroom off carn,pus home. Full kitchen, 3 full bathrooms, six-car driveway, spacious sunporeh with northern exposure. Walking distance to campus. Available as of June 16 or starting September. Contact Bob St. John, 356-1:228. FOR SALE: Large Dorm Refrigerator, 2.6 cu. ft.; capacity 17\ w x 31\ h x 20\ d; good condition, $60, call 393- 0612. members welcome. Prayer~ .. Scripture GroJp- Wednesday, June 5 at 11:30 a.m. with Sr. Joan in 4th floor Lounge, Carnegie. Tutorial Program-Any Union student interested in tutoring one hour a week at St. John the Evangelist School please contact Liz Karazim, 370-6774. Union Arts·· Presents Two Plays in the No·tt 8:pn IDEAL APARTMENT AVAILABLE FOR THE SUMMER! Modern kitchen and bath .. Excellent condition- TWO BEDROOMS! Call soon! 377-8991. LOOKING FOR AN APARTMENT. for the summer? There is now available a 2- person apartment located on University ( 4 minutes froin PERSONALS Janice, Olivia, and Alyssa- W ell, less than two weeks left together. Thanks for everything guys. I couldn't have asked for better roommates. I'll miss you, NY Style Deli WATCH FOR OUR NEW OUTDOOR CAFE! NEW HOURS Open Mon.-Fri. 8 a.m.-8 p.m. Saturday at 8 a.m. -5p.m. 160 Jay St. • 382:-5493 Tickets for f1U:E admi.ssion at 8ox Office in Carnegie 8tclg.. · fellow kleptos. Have some kind of an amazing summer. Love Ya-Linda Andrea: The funniest person on campus! I'm looking for- ward to a great summer but a lonely fall. Party at your house right? To Dave, Steve, Mark B., and Greg. The tools will never be the same! Thanks for the past few years, and visit if you're ever in Schenectady. John, Adam, Mickey Pete, Rob SDT Seniors-It's been great! Good luck and we are all going to miss you! Love the sisters Donna, Betsy and Maureen from Delta Gamma-Calories don't count. The Mohawk Path- ways Girl Scout Council loves and appreciates you. Nancy Greene Jonas To the Pledges .of Delta Gamma- You made the cookies crumble successfully. Congratulations! Mohawk Pathways GIRL Scout Council Kelly and Sue: Get psyched for a great summer! Amy David-thanks for one of the best weeks of my life. You know what? I love you tons. How surprising that Mrs. R's boys are such scholars that they spend their Tuesday nights in the library. BHA Some people think the library needs more books ... Some LS's think it needs beds ... BHA DDD Seniors: You're the best! We'll miss you. The Sisters Rum and Reggae is upon us. The question of the day is: Will the Happy Hippo Hum per Strike Again? Winger, Dan, Benz, Cliff and TD Chi~ Thanks for taking care of me. Keep up those spirits and Get in Shape Over the Summer! Tri-Delta's 5K Run Is Coming in the Fall Get Involved! • 1 A m A Woman ' by·Viveca Lindfors J.Jay 28, 30, 31, Ju .l A Journey of one .roman aid many women mo travel be~ the conJi.nes .e n \ t ~· o~ a cause o a~scover the deeper questions o,f mat it means to be fwman an::l the need \to bring back to at l .human bei'l1s the essential nature of their potential, to allow UKXnnth am tears to men and in::lepencl- ence and drive to women.\ I AM A ·lltl\MN is also a Journey .for .biane Saclah. '85 who bri~s her enormous artistic talent into Jocus as she creates the 36 characters Jound in the play. Live improvisational music of Jtif! Presslcifcf adds sti t t ,further depth and beauty to this production.

... ' I I,,. \; .; .' '• ,. ,· Page 18 PERSONALS go knock them dead after graduation. P.S. Where's Pinky?! Traci: A great friend, a great roommate, a great person! Love ya. Amy DORI-just a little note saying I hope Sunday is a great day for turning 21! Happy Legality wherever you are .... Guess who??? Hey Babe, I really did write this, and I really do love you. xo No. 33 (or was it No. 34)- Happy Birthday! Let's talk. ,..-a friend Kara: Thanks for being you. Stay sweet and good luck. Amy Deb: Always remember S.L., D.D., B.B.F., Stinky, DDD and all the rest. The good times have just begun. DEAD SCHAFF·ERS-The illtimate Team. Say it, learn it, live it. P-You'revery special to me. Thank you for everYthing! ... A 700 South-It's been an amazing year. Let's really live it up for the rest of the term. I love you guys ... Amy Lor-How can I ever thank you for being such a special friend? You're the greatest! Love, Aim DDD Seniors: Good luck but not goodbye! We love you. The sisters AB, What can I say? I'm going to miss you! Not to mention our \Laugh Hysterically for No Reason\ sessions! I'll trek up to see you next year, I promise! Love, lollipops, and Bazookas, JP Dear Diary, She's crazy and she has a lot of strange habits, but she's been a pretty good roomie. We survived her workload, quiet and intorverted neighbors, and tons of personal crises. I will miss her lots. Who's going to mess up my room next year? Clueless, UHHHHH! Good luck on Monday, June loth, at 11:15 a.m.! It's been fun being your lab partner and discovering the difference between Hepatitis and AIDS (Sorry Professor, but ... ) Good luck discovering the cure to the common cough! Signed, Forever Clueless Meglet, What's the. matter? Mick really spells out the an- swer, right? And I don't mean 'horny, horny, horny'! You've been so quiet lately, I miss your rowdiness! I do need quiet when I have to interpret Joseph CONCORDIENSIS, May30, 1985 Lil, Sand, and Kimber (Just couldn't resist): Get PSYCH, PSYCH, PSYCHED for 252. LOVE YOU GUYS!!! The Fourth (How original!) Someone deserves 21 big smacks on Saturday, and we ain't talkin' the Big X's Baby. Kidding you SP ... ORT. HAPPY BIRTHDAY! ! ! Hon, Never expected to get this serious. Hope we make it through the summer. Stop Pouting and Smile. Love BA13E Ammer, Have a great summer. Good luck on your finals and get psyched for ayear at the house ' with me! ! Looking forward to a silly roommate. GJD Well we made it! Thanks for all the memories (Allen, GMB, BRRRM, traitor, footballs). Have a great summer. Don't work too hard. GOOD ·tUCK with him. · Love, PLC 3Bedroom Apartment· 1985·8·6 School Year • *Recently Remodeled Includes appliances, washer and carpet 370-5498 . .. evenmgs Conrad and write a precept ...----------------:-----:------------------, paper, though! Googoo, gurgle, TH·A\\'~ W-ITV 111£-Y' u ... gurgle. NEvfR kNoW WHE.N I TEN OF A FIJI'S EXCUSES 'SINCE- J1il5 IS You R.li.. GoNI'l t'r PurJ c.t-\ 1) Not tonight dear, I've got a -rnt: LAST I ~s u t::. oF THEM R 16 HT. IN house meeting. 2)Well gotta go, It-\£ f-AGt: _I I've got a house meeting. 3) CotJC.ORDY r WE:. JOST 7 _ AND Dc::a/r .Po Sorry to eat and ru. I've got a WA\JT io \S~'W A FEW J)KUG.S- St\N.l> f11tf'\ house meeting. 4) I can only wo~!l5 oF 4.DVIC.E. To ro stay a minute, I've got a house II-IE. DE PAR 1TN(, S-Efll IORS: meeting. 5) I'll call you back, ffRST _ !3€ NICE .,- 0 I've got a house meeting. 6) We P£OfLE. ! c~n't go tonight, I've got a house meeting. 7) Maybe some other time, I've got a house meeting. 8) This has got to be short, I've got a house meeting. 0) I'm gonna be a little late, I've got a house meeting .. 10) Of course I love you, but I've got a house meeting. +++\House Meeting'' can be replaced by any of the following: a) to play pong (I'm on the table) b) a house function c)· Well, I can't really tell you why, it's kind of a SECRET! ... Sound familiar Rappin' and Toto??? Val: Personals are nice. Your sisters Triste--full of unfulfilled longing or desire; yearning. (:.OOD LUC.K A.ND E. VEtJ If Yov' RE.. NOT AN ENG 1 1\JHR 1 YOU'LL-. Do ~IJ$1 F\tJ£ ~· T C.OMk BAC.k ·'£?I (\ +\I'J·,. r· GARY-CAPS, HUGS, MASSAGES. Have a· great swmner and congrats on Chi Psi. Love, ? ? ? SE.NIOR S ! -ro Sc.i-\E\-l£C.TAD'\'! -?:QN TOTO-thanks for grabbing my arm when you did. I love ya!. -Ash P.S. I need a lizard. Kel Roomie: They could've sent me a big meanie, but they didn't. Things have worked out great, despite my artistic expression (all over the room). Good luck with the clan in your new abode. ' PAISA MISfft. 163 Jat St., Sqh'dJ -India l•torfs- 311·7113 .--~ · Bring in coupo 1 ~- ...... complete Boutique Ore$ses, Skirts, Tops, Pants, Brass Gifts · Jewelry, W.icker, Gifts, Etc., Etc. . . Library Makes Arrangements For Summer Renovations Op~n Mon.-Fri. 10:00-6:00 p.m. • Thurs. 10:00 a.m.-9:00p.m. r A · Ex ress . . ERSONAt CHECKS ACCEPTED !AY·AWAY•Wow•llholdyout .,..-~,, . I• ~ P . . Po11ho\e w1lh o •mpll d•poSII Lt.. _,__j Schaffer Library will be in- stalling compact shelving in one half of the basement during the Summer of 1985. Students taking summer coursework are- advised that · periOOical titles beginning with A-Lit :will be unavailable from June 17th through September 9th. . Microforms, ie. microfilm and fiche will be inaccessible. The remaining periodical titles, Lit- Z, and the government documents collection will be available for public' use. Access to the basement will be by elevator only, elevator keys will be available for check-out at the Circulation Desk. The library will have photocopy machines and microfilm and microfiche readers available for use. The library is undertaking this project to alleviate crowding in the basement. If you have questions or concerns, please see Maribeth Krupczak at the library~ Help to clothe Ethiopian Children Donate Your T~Shirts Box is in Mrs. Marra's Office Sponsored by MTV, Catholic Relief Services and the Newman Club ~t 1ft Nl DRAGON GARDEN Chinese and American Restaurant 120 Mohawk Ave. ,e Scotia, N.Y. (518) 377-6637 ' 1 0ne of the Top 1 0-Restaurants\ \Without a doubt, this is the BES.T CHINESE Restaurant in the Capital District\ Knickerbocker News 120 Mohawk Ave. Scotia

~nt Year ~arpet 98 I N.Y. By JAYGROSSMAN Sports Editor Scott Remillard recently finished third in the hammer throw at the NCAA Division 111 track and field championships which ended last weekend at Denison University. Remillard turned in his personal best throw of 188. feet, one inch; which earned him All-American Honors. Remillard has served as Captain of both indoor and outdoor track and has been tl1e Week --; ' . ; ., :-~ . ~. _:....:/·.v . ~--- _·-.,. CONCORDIENSIS, May 30, 1985 chosen as MVP of both teams this season. He also earned All· American status during the winter, as a shot putter. Remillard has also thrown the discus at Union. Chris O'Donnell and Winston Britton also competed at Denison. Remillard, a junior, has been the most outstanding member of Union's track corps for the past few seasons. He is an electrical engineering major from East Syracuse, N.Y. where he was the New York State record holder in the Discus. In addition, Remillard is the only two-time athlete of the week winner for the spring term. Congratulations to Scott Remillard. Page 19 SPORTS Ebbets leads Tracksters By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff able to take a few of his atheletes to such big meets as the Penn Relays and the B.C. Relays. Ebbets considers the high point of the outdoor season was when junior Chis O'Donnell qualified for the Division III Nationals in the 3000 meter steeple chase and won the outdoor. State Meet in that event, and when Senior Winston BFitton qualified for the Nationals in thee 400 meter run. This week at the Nationals, O'Donnell and Scott Remillard in the hammer throw each have a realistic shot at becoming All- Americans. The first time I walked into Russ Ebbets office I noticed a hand made banner stretched across the top of his bulletin board that read \The Dodgers Don't Pay In Ebbets Field Anymore\. This statement was referring to the controversial move of the Brooklyn Dodgers from New York to Los Angeles and their vacancy of the ball park with the same name as the track and cross country coach at Union College. Though the Dodgers left Ebbets Field and had better success on the West Coast, Russ Ebbets came to Union and has built a track program that has gained l r-----.-. -· --..-------------------·---· -----· ........ __ _.....__..__, respect throughout the state of • Wo~nen's Lax Edges Men's Lax j· :!:y~:~:re~~~o¥~~~~.~~ had graduated from Union in 1977 with a B.A. in English and was attending graduate school A second measure of Ebbets' success is in his women's team. Over the past. couple of years, especially this year, the women's program· has gotten bigger and better, with a relatively young squad, many school records have been lowered consistently from meet to meet. Many of ·his women have proven to be state meet material and are expected to start placing consistently in the years to come. Two weeks ago, the dut- chwomen lacrosse team challenged the dutchmen lacrosse players to a battle of the sexes. Despite the absence of beer or fans, the players showed a rowdy enthusiasm for the confrontation: The dut- chwomen triumphed in an 11-8 victory over their hapless op- ponents. Under the organization of Laurie Bidstrup and Marc Ehudin, the two teams ex- changed their lacrosse sticks, but not their uniforms. All agreed to play according to women's lacrosse rules. There were no referees, no boun• daries, no goalies, no offs.ides and presumably no physical contact, although some players could not help themselves in their excitement. Marc Ehudin and Debbie Hodin started off the dra. John Thorne was ·quick to snatch the Vehicles Included lnlhe Plan. You may choose a new 19851lnmderbird, LID, Tempo, Mustang, ~rt. Bronco.ll or light trucks up to F-250. ~~Approved CrediL .lUst meet three simple ball out of the air and twirl the ball above the dutchwomen's heads but · passing was a problem~for all the dutchmen. Shooting was even more horendous. The dutchmen were often surprised by what their women's sticks would not do for them. The dutchwomen had a terrific first half. Debbie Hodin, Kathy Furst,. Carolyn Zutell and Laurie Bidstrup were a scoring blockhouse~ The dutchmen tried blockading the goal but the dutchwomen kept shooting and scoring. During the second half, the men learned how to throw and began to Score but the dut· chwomen defense made them fight· for it. Cheryl Washburn and Kristin Rodenhiser were fierce on defense and outran any man going for a loose ball. Mike Weisberger got the hot dog award of the day for cradling conditions: · • You must have verifiable employ· ment that begins within 120 days ol your vehicle purchase at a salary sufficient to · ordinary livipg expenses and your vehicle payment • You must have proollhat you have graduated or will graduate ami be 11ypded at least a bachelors deg;'!lll within 120 d;lys. his Stick on the ground .and thinking he would get all the way to goal. Carolyn Gilbert did a good job at getting the ball down on of· fense where Tim Meyers, John Carl and Charles Weber tried the \sandwich technique\ to obtain the ball but the ball was never far from the women's offense. In the end the women proved they had more stamina than the men. A rematch has been rescheduled twice so far. The men are either afraid of losing again or are too cheap to put up the beer the owe. Either way, if the men are REAL man they will get organized and challenge the dutch women for another fun and exciting match. And if there are REAL people out there, they'll come spectate . . . and bring cups. Your credit record, if you have one, must indi- ·cale payment made as agreed . • •$400 Purcluise Allowance. Make your best deal ... use the $400 as a down payment or receive a $400 check directly (rom Ford •r lhe sale • Call Dennis J ~·Hurley, Jr. Orange Motots Company, Jnc. 799 Central Avenue, Albany, N.Y. • 489-5414 at Norwich University where in 1981 he got his Masters in physical education ad- ministration. Ebbets' background in track includes running for Villanova and rooming with Eammon Coghlan before transferring to Union and pursuing the middle distance events, primarily the half mile which he still com- petes in today. When Ebbets ran here Union had a very good track program but when he returned as coach three short years later, the program had made a one hundred and eighty degree turn. Conflicting interests and the attitude of the team as a whole combined with a scarcity of athletes contributed to Union's bad record. When Ebbets took qver the program, he instituted his own philosophy, knowledge of the sport, and, combined with his own class of recruits, began the job of turning the program around. This year Ebbets' teams have established themselves as a respected team in New York and have had more success than . any of his teams so far. So far this year from his men's squad he has produced seven state champions and one All- American. This week at the outdoor Nationals in Ohio, Union has a chance to add at least two more All-Americans to the list. Ebbets was most pleased with the results of the indoor State Meet this past March. Their fine fifth place finish was the result of Ebbets' training program and how he got each athelete to peak at the same time. All-American Scott Remillard was able to win the 35 lb. weight, Winston Br~tton won the 500 meter run and the team of Mike Reed, Britton, Jeff Barker, and Rob Mohlar were able to come through and win the 4x:800. Carrying over to· the outdoor season, Ebbets was Ebbets expectations of his athletes are that he simply expects them to perform up to expectations. He tries to make a subjective evaluation of each person and train them ac- cordingly. Ebbets also adds that he \refuses\ to make anybody do something. He says he has found that in the past athletes have asked for more work and pressure but when he goes to turn the screws they resist and respond negatively. Ebbets feels he is most successful with self-motivation. The athletes he recruits have responded to establishing their goals with Ebbets help and he has used his role as a coach to guide them toward those goals. Ebbets believes that at this level the coach should not be a parent figure to hold their hands through competition and training. His view is that competition is like a triangle and the better an athlete gets the closer to the point he is. He goes on to say that when the top of this triangle is achieved an athlete is the best. There is room for only one person at the top so Ebbets believes there is no room for a coach at the top. Ebbets trains his athletes so they won't need him every step of the way. Union's track program has a bright future for next year. Ebbets believes that the cross country team has a chance to qualify for the nationals .if they can stay \healthy and fase•. He had a light year in recruiting for the men's team but seems to believe he did well for the women's team. Especially in the distance events, their weakest area. Hopefully Union's successes in track continue beyond this year and that they continue· to improve. The Sports Editors of CONCORDY Thank George CuHita for all his help! SPORTSLI NE proudly presents an exclusive LIVE intervi.ew with NFL Commissioner PETE ROZELLE on WRUC 89.7 FM Fri., May 31•7:30 p.m. Listen in and win on the Sports I i ne

; ' i , I I '1·.· \ ·\, ' ! . . ' I ' 'I if ! ,;,I Page20 .,_ +- ·;:: lui ~ +- ro [L >- .0 0 .,_ 0 .c. a. CONCORDIENSIS, May 30, 1985 THE YEAR IN SPORTS! 1985-85 Intercollegiate Season at Union .End$ As One of the Most Successful in History When the 1983-84 .intercOllegiate season at Union concluded last May, alumni, friends, coaches, and student-athletes were pleased with the results. A total of 123 victories were posted in '83-'84, while seven of the 23 varsity teams posted winning seasons. Three teams qualified for postseason tournaments during the year. Yes, when looking back, 1983-84 was quite a season. However, last year served only as a bullding block to what was accomplished during the 1984-85 campaign. During the past 10 months, the men and women student-athletes at Union College have brought pride and honor to their school-:-1 n all, 23 varsity teams won 147 contests with nine of the 23 squads finishing with a winning record. Men's tennis, meanwhile, was at .500. 1 n aH~ a total of five squads qualified for postseason berths. Football, soccer, and hocl<ey all were selected to the national tournament while men's basketball and women's softball received an ECAC bid, but the tournament was cancelled for the second straight year in the upstate region because of early graduations. Union, in fact, was the only Upstate New York team that showed an interest in the ECAC event and also had a winning record. Football and soccer each hosted first-round NCAA games while Achilles Rink celebrated its lOth anniversary by hosting the National Final Four. Baseball (16-9) and softball (12-4) each set Union records for wins in a season while men's soccer (12-2-1) tied its mark. Men's lacrosse (8-6) posted its first winning season since 1978. Last year the 12 men's programs produced a combined record of 81-69-3 for a winning percentage of .539. This year the men were 100-63-2 for a p~rcentage of 61.2. In all, eight of the 12 men's intercollegiate sports had winning records while two others were at the break-even mark. Several track and field members qualified for the outdoor nationals while junior Chris O'Donnell (Montpelier, VT) captured the New York State championship in the steeplechase. A total of 37 men and women student-athletes were honored at the annual Block U Awards Dinner as four-year varsity letter winne.rs, up from 26 last year. Yes indeed, 1983-84 was quite a season, but there is no question that the recently concluded 1984-85 campaign was that much better. With two quality years building the foundation for successful programs, one can only wonder what the upcoming 1985-86 year has in store for the men and women student- athletes at Union College. \\'-- ,,; ,':1<' ~ .< .... '% -< • '' \· ~ >- .0 0 0 ..c. a. 1/) 1/) <lJ .... :[L

I\ I i ' I ' ' . t ' , .. I ! ' ' ' 'I : i \ 1 ' ·. ·;·j i ,/1 ! I :[ ' • ,_ Maybe if we ignore.them- they'll just go away!! J)ISTORDIENSIS, May 30, 1985 \Gee this book is great! 101 Ways to $ecome a Better Boutlcer -- .I've really found my literary niche!\ \I f.lilought 1 learned what this was in kindergarten, but 1 seem to.have forgotten.\ CAMPUS N.EWS BRIEFS Nottto be Renovated The College has recently announced that emergency renovations will begin on the Nott Memorial immediately following graduation exercises. Sources have informed ad- ministration officials that in Snoqualmie, Washington, a man named Joe Carpenter has completed construction of a sixteen-sided doghouse for his pet scbnauser. Such a con- struction has overwhelming implications for Union, as the Nott Memorial is no longer the only sixteen-sided building in the Northern Hemisphere. While Union may still boast the oldest such structure, President Morris fears that \this could be disastrous for the College's welfare. Since the Nott is one of Union's biggest claims to fame, we cannot afford to have this distinction undercut.'' Many administrators worry that Union's endowment may suffer when alumni and others hear of the scandal (and many students worry that losses in donations will result in an in- crease in tuition). In addition, it is rumored that Robert Redford and Barbara Streisand plan to film a new movie in Carpenter's back yard in Snoqualmie. _ In response to these reports, the Trustees held an emergency meeting last Friday and agreed to allocate four million dollars to add a seventeenth side to the Nott Memorial. Upon com- pletion of these renovations, Union College may boast the only seventeen-sided building north of the equator. Com- mented Presmo, \Snoqualmie may .have a more stupid name than Schenectady, but we'd like to maintain a monopoly on ridiculous buildings.'' Housing Lottery Eliminated The Residence Life Office has developed a new procedure to allot housing for the 1985-86 school year. Initially, students complained to Residence Life because many-especially male sophomores-to-be-find it difficult to obtain suitable housing on campus. One male freshman with a lottery number over four hundred explained, \I'll be lucky to get a bathroom stall in Hickock at this rate. There has to be a better way.\ Director of Residence Life, Dave Wood, explained that he had hoped to construct four new donns this year, but his budget allocations would only allow enough funds for four tents on West Beach. While students supported this plan over- whelmingly, they realized tents would be a nuisance during Camp Union, and the proposition was scrapped. Wood has formulated an alternate solution to housing demands, however. Noting that \lottery was a big hassle for everyone anyway,\ Wood has decided to eliminate the lottery system entirely. He has con- structed a new plan, \roughly following the organizational structure of winter term registration.'' Beginning at 8:00 AM on September 5, room keys will be available all at once, on a first-come first-served basis. Through this plan, Wood hopes to eliminate the unavoidably random results of a lottery. He added, \This gives students a chance to work for a good room. Whoever arrives earliest or pushes other students the hardest will get his or her choice of housing options.\ Many students-particularly football players-share his enthusiasm. Stone Boat Sinks Last weekend, Union's Stone Boat Club traveled to Penn. State to compete in the annual Stone Boat Race. After months of designing, building and training, the club felt qualified to attempt the highly com- petitive meet. Unfortunately, attempts at the mixed women's, men's, faculty, marathon, and medley races all failed. The stone boat sank. Club members, while naturally disappointed, have not let the setback dampen their enthusiasm. Next year, the group building the boat will consider materials other than lead. Camp Union Cancelled The Camp Union Committee announced yesterday that, much to their regret, Camp Union '85 will be cancelled. Committee members ex- plained that weather forecasts indisputably predict a raging blizzard on June 1. Reports vary between an_ expected seven to ten teet ot snow and tem- peratures · reaching thirty to forty degrees below zero. Commented one forecaster, \This is Schenectady, you know.\ Concert Committee Chair- man, Pete Hutchinson, ex- pressed disappointment at the unexpected change of plans after so many students had worked to organize the event. He noted that the party policy will not allow the committee to reschedule the event for Sunday when forecasters predict record high temperature~ and sun- shine. Dean Masochism com- mented, \Well this isn't Woodstock, .. \ Society Seeking Recruits The Time Warp Society sent out notice that they would be coming to Union to look for recruits. · In a bulletin sent to Mrs. Marra's office they stated, \We want students who will be good members of our group. They must uphold the standards which were maintained by the leaders of tomorrow. Potential members will be required to attend last year's national convention. Next year, we had our convention in Chicago. Last year, it will be held in Bayonne, and this year, it was held in Kiwi-off-Hawaii from October 16-23, 1985. Any cooperation from the student body when we visit last week will be ap- preciated tomorrow. Come experience what life has been if you become a member of our Society.\ Any student who understands this bulletin, please consult Mrs. Marra, who will be sure you receive prompt psychiatric attention yesterday. Tappa Keg Accepted A new fraternity will be formed at Union College in the 1985-86 academic year.· Tappa Keg will be the first chapter of the fraternity in New York State. The guidelines stipulate the following criteria, which all potential members must meet: a GPA no higher than 2.0, a height of no less than six feet, weight no lower than 210 pounds, the ability to guzzle 15 quarts of beer in no more than two minutes, and at least six years' experience on either varsity football or varsity golf (including high school varsity). Dean Mammola told Concotdy that \it will be interesting to see if . . . well, it will just be in- teresting.\ Pillsbury Kneads a Leave Professor Milton Pillsubry, chairman of the Home Economics Department, an- nounced today that he will be taking a leave of absence for the Fall and Winter terms of the 1985-86 academic year. The reason for this leave of absence is, as Pillsbury stated, \I need to do SOJ!lething I've always wanted to do: open a Friendly restaurant.\ He said he would like to build it next door to the Schenectady City Hall so he can watch all the illustrious Councilmen eat what he terms \my divine creations.\· Former students will be giving Pillsbury a going-away affair which they plan to cater themselves. The affair will take place this Saturday at 7: 00 and will feature carrot · curls, radish \roses and Dip Divine, a recipe created by Pillsbury. Bon voyage and bon appetite. Seniors Arrive at graduation early because ther.e are only 450 diplomas for the 561 graduates. Diplomas. will be distributed on a firsf .. come first-served basis. (like Winter Term Pre ~Registration.) 20% Off Union College Graduate Special qualifications: Able to work late night hours (especially under pressure ); refined taste in music; capable of showing clients a good time; known to have large capacity for consumption of social beverages. Full resume available upon. request, but graduate may be .......... difficult to locate due to lack of direction in life.

;·.· '-. nisroRDIEJtisis, May 3o, J!Jss For th9s~ women who didn't get a room, Residence Life pres'ents a new housing option. (Note the scenic view and private strip mirii:ng, Maintenance prepares for A hundred bails of cocaine have been sent to· campus and will be distributed to the students during Camp Union. 1 chew on my fingers therefore I am. corrimel)cemenf weekend by trimming the pavement. : : Distordy Presents th.e First Annual ... Tacky Tie Contest The\Kissme I'm Irish\ look. The \I'm laid back, It's Friday\ look. The \Love me, Love my tie\ look. ihe \Whi:l entered me in this tacky tie contest anyway?\ lo\Ok. The \wild western\ look, The\ I'm a liberal\ look. The \What 1 feel lik.e on a sunday mor· ning\ look. '

